COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW Details: Health Management, Major MajorHealth Management All Programs College of Health Professions Public Health Sciences A Bachelor of Science (BS) in health management from Wichita State will prepare you to tackle some of the most important challenges in the evolving health care industry. With a focus on the managerial concerns of the field, you'll be equipped to help health care organizations run smoothly — whether your career is in a hospital, long-term care facility or public health organization. Learn how health management is the right fit for you. Request Info Start Your Application Applied learning at Wichita State At Wichita State, applied learning is everything. In fact, every degree we offer has a guaranteed applied learning or research experience built right into it equipping you with the relevant skills and experience to make you workforce ready before graduation. Learn about our innovative approach Admission to the program To be admitted into the College of Health Professions, you must first be admitted to Wichita State. For WSU's admission requirements, and to apply, click the link below. Admission requirements Inside the Program Student group works to improve public health during the pandemic Public health science students collaborated with campus organizations during the COVID-19 pandemic. Senior capstone students worked with Student Health Services during the fall semester on mitigation strategies. In the spring, students created a WSU Partner Point of Delivery (POD) plan for distribution of the COVID-19 vaccine to students and faculty, and developed peer-to-peer multilingual vaccine information videos. Students celebrate National Public Health Week annually by volunteering in the community and displaying health educational materials around campus. Curriculum Students complete a health management core curriculum that serves as the foundation to health services delivery, population health, assessment and leadership. You'll choose from one of three concentrations: Aging Studies - Prepares students for a variety of entry-level positions in senior centers, senior living communities, nonprofit or for-profit aging organizations or graduate education in aging studies. Public Health - Prepares students for a variety of entry-level positions in state and local health departments, health-related nonprofit and for-profit organizations or graduate education in public health. Health Administration - Prepares students for a variety of entry-level positions in nonprofit and for-profit clinical health care organizations or graduate education in health administration. A departmental honors track is also available for this major. View the curriculum Careers A degree in health management from Wichita State will give you a broad range of health-related knowledge—preparing you for a variety of graduate programs and high-paying careers in settings such as acute-care medicine, community health, long-term care and others. Learn more about careers in this field Similar Programs Aging Studies Aging Studies (Minor) Health Science Health Science (Minor) Health Management (Minor) Public Health (Minor) 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©