SMU Cox Display Navigation and Site Search SMU Cox School of Business SMU Cox Utility Navigation Students Companies Alumni Apply Contact Us smu.edu Display Navigation Display Search Search SMU SMU Cox Main Navigation At SMU Cox Display At SMU Cox Sub Menu An exceptional school in the heart of a vibrant, global, business-friendly city. Collins Center Cox News Cox Events Graduate Outcomes CoxToday Magazine Academic Departments Career Growth Global Programs Degrees & Programs Display At SMU Cox Sub Menu Rigorous programs within a truly customized academic experience. Master of Science MS in Accounting MS in Business Analytics MS in Finance MS in Management MS Health Promotion Management MS in Sport Management MBA Full-Time Two-Year MBA Full-Time One-Year MBA MBA Direct Professional MBA Online MBA Executive MBA Joint Degrees JD/MBA MA / MBA MS Engineering / MBA Undergraduate Bachelor of Business Administration Non-Degree Executive Education Summer Business Institute Diversity & Inclusion Display At SMU Cox Sub Menu Shaping Leaders for a Changing World. Diversity at Cox Latino Leadership Initiative I Am Latino in America Subiendo Academy at SMU Cox School Dean’s Message Executive Education Display At SMU Cox Sub Menu Meet your career challenges head-on by mining the expertise of the nation's top business leaders. Programs for Individuals Custom Solutions Latino Leadership Initiative HR Roundtable Graduate Certificates Collins Center Learning Culture Display At SMU Cox Sub Menu An innovative learning culture influences the way the world does business. Centers and Institutes Academic Departments Research Business Library NextGen Cox Curriculum People & Community Display At SMU Cox Sub Menu A community where professors know students by name and help them create powerful networks. Students Alumni Faculty Companies Cox Executive Board Cox100 Press Releases Display Search Utility Navigation Students Companies Alumni Apply Contact Us smu.edu Corporate Engagement & Strategic Partnerships Corporate Engagement & Strategic Partnerships Hire Cox Talent Partner with Faculty Part-time & Flexible Graduate Programs Executive Education Hire Cox Talent Partner with Faculty Part-time & Flexible Graduate Programs Executive Education Jump To A Section Overview Opportunities to Partner with SMU Cox In The Classroom Beyond The Classroom Talent Recruitment Talent Development Contact Us Overview The SMU Cox School of Business supports and encourages corporate engagement and opportunities for strategic partnership. Whether collaborating in the classroom, or beyond the classroom, we invite you to connect and explore ways we can partner together. Hire Cox Talent Partner with Faculty Part-time & Flexible Graduate Programs Executive Education Opportunities to Partner with SMU Cox The SMU Cox School of Business supports and encourages corporate engagement and opportunities for strategic partnership. Whether collaborating in the classroom, or beyond the classroom, we invite you to connect and explore ways we can partner together. Contact Us In The Classroom Experiential learning projects enable students to directly apply classroom knowledge, and put it into practice. SMU Cox students embrace the opportunity to take on real business challenges, and propose solutions to drive impact and results for your organization. Cox students partner with companies in the U.S., and around the world, and welcome the opportunity to work with your team. Beyond The Classroom For research projects, Cox offers opportunities to partner with Cox Faculty through our Centers and Institutes or Academic Departments. Companies can also connect directly with students through various campus clubs and organizations. Talent Recruitment If your organization is seeking to hire SMU Cox students, please contact the Career Management Center for details. Talent Development The Cox School proudly supports lifelong learning. Whether you, or a member of your team, is seeking opportunities for professional development, the Cox School offers a variety of degree and non-degree programs to meet those needs. Through collaborative partnerships, the Cox School also co-creates custom solutions for many corporate partners and organizations. Explore our offerings below. Graduate Degrees Executive Education Contact Us Lisa Tran Managing Director, Corporate Engagement & Strategic Partnerships T: 214-768-2533 e-mail Lisa Colleen Dunkel Director, Corporate Engagement & Strategic Partnerships T: 214-768-4606 e-mail Colleen > SMU Cox Footer Utility Nav Give Contact Us Apply © Cox School of Business Southern Methodist University PO Box 750333 Dallas, Texas 75275-0333 214-768-2000 SMU Cox Legal Home SMU Cox on Social Media Facebook Instagram Twitter