Skip to main content iastate.edu Index A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z Directory Maps Safety Sign Ons AccessPlus Canvas CyBox CyMail Okta Outlook Workday More Sign Ons... Iowa State University Office of Student Financial Aid Menu Toggle Search Toggle Search Home Types of Aid Scholarships Scholarship Award Code Request (Staff) Grants Federal Work-Study Loans Loan Resources Calculators Deferment and Forbearance Entrance and Exit Counseling Federal Loan Servicers Federal Student Loan Limits Interest Rates and Origination Fees Loan Consolidation Promissory Notes Repayment Tracking Your Loans Cost Cost of Attendance Undergraduate Students: Fall & Spring Graduate Students: Fall & Spring Veterinary Medicine Students Years 1, 2, 3: Fall & Spring Veterinary Medicine Students Year 4: Summer, Fall, & Spring Cost of Attendance Adjustment Veterinary Medicine Cost of Attendance Adjustment 2022-23 Expense Estimator 2021-22 Net Price Calculator FAFSA Completing the FAFSA Verification Tax Filers Non-Tax Filers Verification Document Deadline Policy Verification Forms FAFSA Dependency Independent Appeals FAFSA FSA ID Making Corrections to the FAFSA Special Conditions Student Aid Report (SAR) Student Eligibility Forms Resources About Your Award Letter Calculators Consortium Agreement FAQs Financial Aid Policies Informational Videos Message from the Director Paying Your Bill Satisfactory Academic Progress (SAP) Appealing Financial Aid Suspension SAP for Graduate Students SAP for Undergraduate Students Veterans & Military Students Veterinary Medicine Students Additional Financial Assistance SNAP Benefit Information Withdrawing and Dropping Classes Other Resources Contact Us Site Index Student Employment America Reads/America Counts America Reads/America Counts Contact General Information Information for Educators Information for Prospective Tutors Average Pay Rates Federal Work-Study Work-Study in Workday Student Employee Recognition Student Employee of the Year National Student Employment Week Student Employment Center (SEC) Student Job Board Post a Job Undergraduate Research Assistantships (URA) Student Financial Success Special Conditions The Special Conditions Application is available for students and their families who have already completed a FAFSA and there has been a change to the student, parent or spouse’s financial information. The U.S. Department of Education allows financial aid administrators to determine which conditions warrant further review. There are limitations to what conditions financial aid administrators can consider. To remain equitable, our office will review all applications on a case-by-case basis. The Following Items are Considered for Special Conditions: Loss of job/reduction in income Reduced earnings due to disability or natural disaster Loss of benefits or untaxed income Divorce or separation of parents or student listed on the current FAFSA since completion Death of a parent or spouse listed on the current FAFSA since completion Farm or farm related conditions Medical/dental expenses not paid by insurance Cost of dependent care expenses and/or the cost of private elementary or high school, if medically or psychological necessity. The Following Items are not Considered for Special Conditions: Expenses related to personal living. Examples include but are not limited to: Payments on any consumer loan and debts Payments on student or parent education loans Payments on back taxes owed to the IRS Bankruptcy, foreclosures or collection costs associated with outstanding debts Adjustments to self-reported asset information by parents or students on the FAFSA Debt forgiveness that reflects as income on a tax return Lottery or gambling winnings or losses Income annually reported as rental real estate, royalties, partnerships, S corporations, trusts, etc. on your Federal 1040 Tax Return Cost of college expenses incurred for any sibling seeking a degree or a parent seeking a second/advanced degree. Cost of college courses taken while in high school Students/families with an EFC already equaling 0 Graduate or doctoral students Any costs associated with illegal activity Cost of private elementary or secondary education unless medically or psychologically necessary This is not an exhausted list of conditions that we will not consider As part of the application, you, your spouse and/or your parent(s) will be asked to estimate your income and possibly your expenses for the current year. If you underestimate your projected income or overestimate your projected expenses, it may be decided that a subsequent appeal will not be reviewed and/or you may be required to pay back financial aid that was received as a result of substantially incorrect estimations. When estimating income please include all sources of potential income for the year, included but not limited to wages, bonuses, severance, unemployment, disability etc. The Review Process Make sure you include all applicable documentation to support your special condition. Documentation submitted with your application will not be released back to the student or family, as a result, please do not submit original copies of documents. A copy of the original document will be sufficient for review of the Special Conditions Application. Preferred documentation is listed on the application. The review process can take four to six weeks to complete depending on the receipt of a completed application, requests for additional information, and the time of year the application is submitted. When our office receives the application, an advisor will contact the student and/or parent via email if any additional information or clarification is needed. The advisor will also be in contact with the student and/or parent once the application review is completed. Not all application reviews will warrant a change to the student’s original financial aid award offer. Any changes to the student’s financial aid award offer will depend on when our office is notified of the change, the impact on the student’s financial need and funding levels at the time the application is completed. The decision made by the Office of Student Financial Aid Special Conditions advisor is final and cannot be appealed to the U.S. Department of Education. Applications Refer to the FAFSA dependency page to determine if you are a dependent or independent student. For changes in financial circumstances that occur or have occurred in 2021, and the student will be enrolled at Iowa State University for the Fall 2021 / Spring 2022 academic year, please complete the 2021-2022 Special Conditions Application. Completed applications for 2021-2022 must be turned into the Office of Student Financial Aid for processing by June 24, 2022, at the latest. For changes in financial circumstances that occur or have occurred in 2022, and the student will be enrolled at Iowa State University for the Fall 2022 / Spring 2023 academic year, please complete the 2022-2023 Special Conditions Application. Please allow for additional processing time for applications submitted between May and August. FAQ Can I complete more than one application in an academic year?Yes. If there is a subsequent change after the initial application is completed, our office will consider another application. What happens if the application is incomplete and/or the requested documentation is not included or incomplete?A financial aid advisor will contact the student and/or parent to request completed or further documentation. If the requested documentation is not received by our office, the application review will not be completed. How long does the application review process take and how will the student/parent know the application review is complete? Four to six weeks for normal processing time. Times vary depending on how efficiently our office received completed documentation. Processing time may be longer during the months of June, July and August due to high volume. The student and/or parent will be contacted via email or postal mail when the review is complete. Which application form should be completed?The required application depends on the student’s dependency status as determined by the FAFSA. A parent of a dependent student should complete the Parent Special Conditions Application if the change pertains to the parent(s). An independent student (not required to submit parental data on the FAFSA) should complete the Independent Student Special Conditions Application if the change pertains to the student or student’s spouse. A dependent student (required to submit parental data on the FAFSA) should complete the Dependent Student Special Conditions Application if the change pertains to the student. Office of Student Financial Aid Office of Student Financial Aid 0210 Beardshear Hall 515 Morrill Road Ames, IA 50011-2103 Summer 2022 Office Hours Monday-Friday 7:30 am - 4:00 pm Contact Us financialaid@iastate.edu 515-294-2223 phone 515-294-0851 fax Facebook Twitter Instagram Social Media Directory Copyright © 1995 - Iowa State University of Science and Technology All rights reserved. FAFSA: ISU School Code 001869 Financial Aid Code of Conduct Consumer Information Disclosure CyCash Loading... Home Types of Aid ▼ Scholarships ▼ Scholarship Award Code Request (Staff) Grants Federal Work-Study Loans Loan Resources ▼ Calculators Deferment and Forbearance Entrance and Exit Counseling Federal Loan Servicers Federal Student Loan Limits Interest Rates and Origination Fees Loan Consolidation Promissory Notes Repayment Tracking Your Loans Cost ▼ Cost of Attendance ▼ Undergraduate Students: Fall & Spring Graduate Students: Fall & Spring Veterinary Medicine Students Years 1, 2, 3: Fall & Spring Veterinary Medicine Students Year 4: Summer, Fall, & Spring Cost of Attendance Adjustment Veterinary Medicine Cost of Attendance Adjustment 2022-23 Expense Estimator 2021-22 Net Price Calculator FAFSA ▼ Completing the FAFSA Verification ▼ Tax Filers Non-Tax Filers Verification Document Deadline Policy Verification Forms FAFSA Dependency ▼ Independent Appeals FAFSA FSA ID Making Corrections to the FAFSA Special Conditions Student Aid Report (SAR) Student Eligibility Forms Resources ▼ About Your Award Letter Calculators Consortium Agreement FAQs Financial Aid Policies Informational Videos Message from the Director Paying Your Bill Satisfactory Academic Progress (SAP) ▼ Appealing Financial Aid Suspension SAP for Graduate Students SAP for Undergraduate Students Veterans & Military Students Veterinary Medicine Students Additional Financial Assistance ▼ SNAP Benefit Information Withdrawing and Dropping Classes Other Resources Contact Us Site Index Student Employment ▼ America Reads/America Counts ▼ America Reads/America Counts Contact General Information Information for Educators Information for Prospective Tutors Average Pay Rates Federal Work-Study ▼ Work-Study in Workday Student Employee Recognition ▼ Student Employee of the Year National Student Employment Week Student Employment Center (SEC) Student Job Board ▼ Post a Job Undergraduate Research Assistantships (URA) Student Financial Success