Texas Tech University Directory Raiderlink A-Z Index Mentor Tech Menu Search TTU Mentor Tech Coronavirus (COVID-19) Updates Get Involved: Red Raider Students - Become a Protégé: Apply Now! Faculty, Staff, & Graduate Students- Become a Mentor: Apply Now! The Lauro Cavazos & Ophelia Powell-Malone Mentoring Program, also known as Mentor Tech, was introduced Fall 2002 and named for Dr. Lauro F. Cavazos, the first undergraduate to serve as President of Texas Tech University and Ophelia Powell-Malone, the first African American undergraduate of Texas Tech University.Mentor Tech seeks to enhance the educational experiences of students from diverse backgrounds through: Mentorship, Profesional/ Personal Development, and Peer Connections/Interactions A Message To Future Program Participants: Mentor Tech is so excited to welcome new and returning students, faculty, and staff to our family! We recognize and validate the time, energy, and committement it takes to be part of this program. As we move into this next academic year, we are eager to develop experiences that promote a hybrid structure of in-person and virtual experiences. We want to center community and build meaningful relationships through mentorship, celebrations, and storytelling. You are a part of that future and we hope you consider joining us. Sign Up Today Become a Mentor today! Are you interested in serving as a Mentor? Follow the link below to join the Mentor Tech Program as a Mentor. Apply Now! Become a Protégé today! Follow the link below to be paired with a Mentor and to join the Mentor Tech program. Apply Now! What is a Mentor? A Mentor is an individual that uses their knowledge, position, privilege, and experiences to support, uplift, empower, and guide a Protégé throughout their university experience. Mentors are current staff, faculty, and/ or a graduate students, committed to building a relationship with a current undergraduate or graduate student, in order to see them achieve their own success, navigate university systems and spaces, and reach higher for their goals and aspirations. What is a Protégé? A Protégé is a program participant that desires to receive holistic support, encouragement, and guidance, from a Mentor, as they pursue their academic and professional goals at Texas Tech University. Protégés are unique and dynamic, come from diverse communities, with unique talents, and strengths, and are positioned within Mentor Tech to build relationships, learn, and grow in order to meet their academic, personal, and professional goals. For more information, please call 806-742-8692 or email mentor@ttu.edu. Contact TTU Contact Contact TTUContact Contact TTU News News for NewsNews for News Events EventsEvents Mentor Tech Like Mentor Tech on FacebookLike Mentor Tech on Facebook Follow Mentor Tech on twitterFollow Mentor Tech on twitter Follow Mentor Tech on InstagramFollow Mentor Tech on Instagram Address 114 Doak Hall, Box 45065 Lubbock, TX 79409-5065 Phone 806.742.8692 Email mentor@ttu.edu Texas Tech University 2500 Broadway Lubbock, Texas 79409 806.742.2011 Follow Texas Tech University Like Texas Tech University on FacebookLike Texas Tech University on Facebook Follow Texas Tech University on twitterFollow Texas Tech University on twitter Check in with Texas Tech University on FourSquareCheck in with Texas Tech University on FourSquare Subscribe to Texas Tech University on YouTubeSubscribe to Texas Tech University on YouTube Follow Texas Tech University on FlickrFollow Texas Tech University on Flickr Follow Texas Tech University on InstagramFollow Texas Tech University on Instagram Connect with Texas Tech University on LinkedInConnect with Texas Tech University on LinkedIn Contact Texas Tech UniversityContact Texas Tech University Contact Us Campus Map Jobs @ TTU Emergency Communication Center General Policy Information Public Access to Course Info Energy Management Mental Health Resources Title IX Fraud and Misconduct Hotline Online Institutional Resumes TTU System TTU Health Sciences Center TTUHSC El Paso Angelo State University Midwestern State University Statewide Search State of Texas Texas Homeland Security Texas Veterans Portal Texas CREWS SAO Fraud Reporting Open Records Requests © 2022 Texas Tech UniversityOct 15, 2021 11:34 AM Mentor Tech About Mentor Tech About Back About Us Mentor Tech About Back Division of Diversity, Equity & Inclusion About Mentor Tech Staff Meet The Team Mentor Tech About Back Mentor Cluster Leaders (MCL) Protégé Advisory Committee (PAC) Leaders Mentor Tech Mentors Program Participant Resources Mentor Tech Back For Mentors Mentor Tech Back Become a Mentor Mentor Tech Interaction System For Protégés Mentor Tech Back Become a Protégé Mentor Tech Interaction System MT Scholarship Get Involved Mentor Tech Back For Staff/Faculty/Graduate Students Mentor Tech Back Become a Mentor For Students Mentor Tech Back Become a Protégé Mentor Tech Student Organization MT Scholarship Community Partners Mentor Tech Back Networking Reception Donate to Mentor Tech Signature Experiences Mentor Tech Back Signature Experiences Mentor Tech Back National Mentoring Month Classroom To Career Series Spring Fling Mentor Appreciation Luncheon University Resources Mentor Tech Back University Resources Mentor Tech Back Undergraduate Admissions Financial Aid & Scholarships Dream Resource Center University Career Center Student Counseling Center COVID-19 Resources Mentor Tech Back COVID-19 Resources Additional Resources TTU HomeDirectory Raiderlink A-Z Index