Skip to Main Content Brown University News from Brown Site Navigation Featured Events For Journalists Search Menu Topics Environment Date October 3, 2017 2017-10-03 Media Contact David Orenstein [email protected] 401-863-2476 All News Share Facebook Twitter Linkedin Email Computer visualizations bring new perspective to science Working in Brown University’s Center for Computation and Visualization, application scientist Benjamin Knorlein, here with visiting scientist Tom Sgouros, helps turn research data into virtual reality. Play 1 of 1 Inside a drop of the ocean: Using the YURT, application scientist Ben Knorlein can help scientists immerse themselves in three-dimensional visualizations of their data, such as microscopic imagery of phytoplankton in a drop of ocean water. Video: Stephen Crocker PROVIDENCE, R.I. [Brown University] — When a nationwide team of scientists earlier this year wanted to study populations of tiny phytoplankton, why did they invite Brown University computer visualization expert Benjamin Knorlein with them on the voyage? Because while the research vessel R/V Falkor could take them across the Pacific Ocean, only Knorlein’s mastery of virtual reality could put them inside a single drop of water. Using data gathered from 3-D microscopy instruments aboard the ship, Knorlein created an immersive visualization in which scientists can not only see the plankton up close, but also move around among them to observe how they function within their environment. He made the experience available to scientists through systems ranging from VR goggles to Brown’s impressive YURT theater. Knorlein, an application scientist in Brown’s Center for Computation and Visualization, says he enjoys helping researchers advance their science with the power of computer graphics. Benjamin Knorlein Image by Nicholas Dentamaro “Right now virtual reality has a great interest for society, but a lot of people don’t really see the potential it can have for science,” Knorlein said. “If you think about it, computation nowadays is more or less in every field of science. A lot of the data people are looking at are also inherently three-dimensional.” Recently, for example, he collaborated with Beth Brainerd, professor of ecology and evolutionary biology, to unveil new and improved software for capturing uniquely informative 3-D movies of the motion of animal muscles and bones. With sophisticated data processing and visualization, researchers can literally see their research like never before. Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown Social Navigation Facebook Instagram LinkedIn Snapchat Twitter YouTube Social Media Directory © Brown University Brown University For You Current Students Faculty Staff Parents & Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Featured Events For Journalists Topics Arts and Humanities Environment Health and Medicine News and Events Science and Technology Social Sciences Student Life University Initiatives Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation About Events For You Give to Brown All of Brown.edu People News Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Computer visualizations bring new perspective to science Open details for Computer visualizations bring new perspective to science Bookmark this Page