columbia_noon Apply Apply Menu Directory Search The School Dean’s Letter Faculty Administration News Events Student Work Media Archive Alumni Campaign Visit Contact Programs Architecture Master of Architecture M.S. Advanced Architectural Design M.S. Computational Design Practices M.S. Critical, Curatorial & Conceptual Practices Ph.D. Architecture New York/Paris Intro to Architecture Urbanism M.S. Architecture and Urban Design M.S. Urban Planning Ph.D. Urban Planning Preservation M.S. Historic Preservation Ph.D. Historic Preservation Real Estate M.S. Real Estate Development Research Centers Labs Incubator Initiatives Exhibitions Publications Resources Academic Calendar Courses Faculty Resources Hybrid Pedagogy Guide Student Resources Policies & Resources Career Services COVID-19 Resources Student Organizations Facilities Avery Library Arthur Ross Architecture Gallery Making Studio Output Shop Preservation Technology Lab Admissions Thinking About Applying Application Process After You’re Admitted Tuition & Aid FAQ Give Apply A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z # A AIA CES Credits Lyla Catellier directory_staff Created with Sketch. /aiacescredits link_arrow Created with Sketch. AV Office 321M Fayerweather Hall directory_address Created with Sketch. Christopher Day directory_staff Created with Sketch. /audio-video-off… link_arrow Created with Sketch. Abstract Publication 415 Avery Hall directory_address Created with Sketch. Shannon Werle directory_staff Created with Sketch. /abstract link_arrow Created with Sketch. Academic Affairs 400 Avery Hall directory_address Created with Sketch. /academic-affair… link_arrow Created with Sketch. Academic Calendar, Columbia University http://registrar… link_arrow Created with Sketch. Academic Calendar, GSAPP /academic-calend… link_arrow Created with Sketch. Admissions Office 407 Avery Hall 1172 Amsterdam Avenue New York, New York 10027 directory_address Created with Sketch. Steffen Boddeker directory_staff Created with Sketch. /admissions link_arrow Created with Sketch. Advanced Standing Waiver Form Must be printed and returned to 400 Avery Hall directory_address Created with Sketch. https://d37vpt3x… link_arrow Created with Sketch. Alumni Board /alumni/board link_arrow Created with Sketch. Alumni Office 405 Avery Hall 1172 Amsterdam Avenue New York, New York 10027 directory_address Created with Sketch. Leah Cohen, Jillian Barsalou Kincaid, Esther Turay, Leslie Kuo directory_staff Created with Sketch. /alumni/contact link_arrow Created with Sketch. Anti-Racism Curriculum Development Award /anti-racism-act… link_arrow Created with Sketch. Architecture Studio Lottery /architecture-st… link_arrow Created with Sketch. Assistantships /assistantships link_arrow Created with Sketch. Avery Library 300 Avery Hall 1172 Amsterdam Avenue New York, NY 10027 directory_address Created with Sketch. http://library.c… link_arrow Created with Sketch. Avery Review http://averyrevi… link_arrow Created with Sketch. Avery Shorts http://www.avery… link_arrow Created with Sketch. B Black Student Alliance at Columbia GSAPP /bsa link_arrow Created with Sketch. Building Science & Technology Waivers /building-tech-w… link_arrow Created with Sketch. Bulletin Archive /bulletin-archiv… link_arrow Created with Sketch. C COVID-19 FAQ /covid-19-faq link_arrow Created with Sketch. COVID-19 Resources /covid-19-resour… link_arrow Created with Sketch. COVID-19 Resources for the Columbia Community https://covid19.… link_arrow Created with Sketch. Career Services 407 Avery Hall directory_address Created with Sketch. /career-services… link_arrow Created with Sketch. Climate /climate link_arrow Created with Sketch. Columbia Books on Architecture and the City Isabelle Kirkham-Lewitt, Joanna Kloppenburg directory_staff Created with Sketch. /books link_arrow Created with Sketch. Commencement /commencement link_arrow Created with Sketch. Communications Office 415 Avery Hall directory_address Created with Sketch. Steffen Boddeker, Shannon Werle, Lucy Krebsbach directory_staff Created with Sketch. /communications-… link_arrow Created with Sketch. Conversations podcast /conversations link_arrow Created with Sketch. Counseling and Psychological Services http://health.co… link_arrow Created with Sketch. Courses /courses link_arrow Created with Sketch. Credit Transfer /credit-transfer… link_arrow Created with Sketch. Cross Registration /cross-registrat… link_arrow Created with Sketch. D Data & Design /data-design link_arrow Created with Sketch. Dean’s Letter /deans-letter link_arrow Created with Sketch. Dean’s Office 402 Avery Hall 1172 Amsterdam Avenue New York, NY 10027 directory_address Created with Sketch. Nicholas Roberts directory_staff Created with Sketch. /deans-office link_arrow Created with Sketch. Dean’s Unlearning Whiteness Research Award /anti-racism-act… link_arrow Created with Sketch. Development Office 404 Avery Hall directory_address Created with Sketch. Leah Cohen, Jillian Barsalou Kincaid, Esther Turay, Leslie Kuo directory_staff Created with Sketch. /development-off… link_arrow Created with Sketch. Directory of Classes (All Columbia University) http://www.colum… link_arrow Created with Sketch. Disability Services http://health.co… link_arrow Created with Sketch. Dodge Fitness Center 3030 Broadway Dodge directory_address Created with Sketch. https://perec.co… link_arrow Created with Sketch. Dual Degree Program Requirements /dual-degree-req… link_arrow Created with Sketch. E End of Year Show /eoys link_arrow Created with Sketch. Equity /equity link_arrow Created with Sketch. Events Office 415 Avery Hall directory_address Created with Sketch. Lyla Catellier directory_staff Created with Sketch. /events-office link_arrow Created with Sketch. Exhibitions Office Irene Sunwoo directory_staff Created with Sketch. /exhibitions-off… link_arrow Created with Sketch. External Funding Sources /admissions/tuit… link_arrow Created with Sketch. F Faculty /faculty link_arrow Created with Sketch. Faculty Conduct /faculty-conduct… link_arrow Created with Sketch. Feedback /feedback link_arrow Created with Sketch. Finance Office 406 Avery Hall directory_address Created with Sketch. /finance-adminis… link_arrow Created with Sketch. Fitch Colloquium /fitch link_arrow Created with Sketch. Future Anterior Jorge Otero-Pailos directory_staff Created with Sketch. /future-anterior… link_arrow Created with Sketch. G GIS /gis link_arrow Created with Sketch. GIS Tutorials /gis/tutorials link_arrow Created with Sketch. GSAPP Community Fellowship Program /anti-racism-act… link_arrow Created with Sketch. GSAPP Emergency Fund /gsapp-emergency… link_arrow Created with Sketch. GSAPPXx+ /gsappxxplus link_arrow Created with Sketch. Grades /grades link_arrow Created with Sketch. Graduation /commencement link_arrow Created with Sketch. Graphics Project Yoonjai Choi directory_staff Created with Sketch. /graphics-projec… link_arrow Created with Sketch. H HEERF Program /heerf-program link_arrow Created with Sketch. Historic Preservation Newsletter http://us2.campa… link_arrow Created with Sketch. Honor System /honor-system link_arrow Created with Sketch. Human Resources /finance-human-r… link_arrow Created with Sketch. Hybrid Pedagogy Resources /hybrid-pedagogy… link_arrow Created with Sketch. I Identity /identity link_arrow Created with Sketch. Incubator Prize David Benjamin directory_staff Created with Sketch. /research/gsapp-… link_arrow Created with Sketch. Information Technology Helpdesk Ticket, GSAPP https://bit.ly/2… link_arrow Created with Sketch. Information Technology Office, GSAPP Ben Goldie directory_staff Created with Sketch. /it-support link_arrow Created with Sketch. Information Technology, Columbia University (CUIT) http://cuit.colu… link_arrow Created with Sketch. International Students and Scholars Office (ISSO) http://www.colum… link_arrow Created with Sketch. J Job Opportunities at Columbia http://www.colum… link_arrow Created with Sketch. K Kenneth Frampton Endowed Lecture Series /frampton-lectur… link_arrow Created with Sketch. Kinne Prize /kinne link_arrow Created with Sketch. L LatinGSAPP /latingsapp link_arrow Created with Sketch. Leave of Absence Policy /leave-of-absenc… link_arrow Created with Sketch. M Making Studio Schermerhorn Extension Floor 1 directory_address Created with Sketch. Joshua Jordan directory_staff Created with Sketch. https://www.arch… link_arrow Created with Sketch. N News and Press Releases /news link_arrow Created with Sketch. Newsletter Sign Up https://columbia… link_arrow Created with Sketch. Non-Discrimination Statement and Policy /non-discriminat… link_arrow Created with Sketch. O Onera Prize for Historic Preservation /onera-prize link_arrow Created with Sketch. Online Admissions Application GSAPP Admissions 407 Avery Hall directory_address Created with Sketch. https://apply.gs… link_arrow Created with Sketch. Output Shop 116 Avery Hall 1172 Amsterdam Avenue New York, NY 10027 directory_address Created with Sketch. Carlito Bayne, Sherly Orilas directory_staff Created with Sketch. /output-shop link_arrow Created with Sketch. Ownership of Student Work Policy /ownership-of-wo… link_arrow Created with Sketch. P Paris Prize, Buell Center /buell-paris-pri… link_arrow Created with Sketch. Paul S. Byard Memorial Lecture Series /byard-lectures link_arrow Created with Sketch. Percival & Naomi Goodman Fellowship /goodman-fellows… link_arrow Created with Sketch. Plagiarism Policy /plagiarism-poli… link_arrow Created with Sketch. Policies & Resources /policies-resour… link_arrow Created with Sketch. Press Releases /news link_arrow Created with Sketch. Publications Office 407 Avery Hall 1172 Amsterdam Avenue New York, New York 10027 directory_address Created with Sketch. Isabelle Kirkham-Lewitt, Joanna Kloppenburg directory_staff Created with Sketch. /books link_arrow Created with Sketch. Q QSAPP /qsapp link_arrow Created with Sketch. R Registration /registration link_arrow Created with Sketch. Registration: Add / Drop Form https://apply.gs… link_arrow Created with Sketch. Room Reservations /room-reservatio… link_arrow Created with Sketch. S STEM Designation /stem link_arrow Created with Sketch. Satisfactory Academic Progress /satisfactory-ac… link_arrow Created with Sketch. Skill Trails Dan Taeyoung directory_staff Created with Sketch. https://skilltra… link_arrow Created with Sketch. Student Affairs 400 Avery Hall directory_address Created with Sketch. JD Stogdill directory_staff Created with Sketch. /student-affairs… link_arrow Created with Sketch. Student Awards /student-awards link_arrow Created with Sketch. Student Conduct /student-conduct… link_arrow Created with Sketch. Student Council (All Programs) /student-council… link_arrow Created with Sketch. Student Financial Services http://sfs.colum… link_arrow Created with Sketch. Student Health Services at Columbia http://health.co… link_arrow Created with Sketch. Student Organization Handbook /books/reader/59… link_arrow Created with Sketch. Student Organizations /student-organiz… link_arrow Created with Sketch. Student Services Center 205 Kent Hall directory_address Created with Sketch. https://ssc.colu… link_arrow Created with Sketch. Student Services Online (SSOL) https://ssol.col… link_arrow Created with Sketch. Student Work Online /student-work link_arrow Created with Sketch. Studio Culture Policy /architecture-st… link_arrow Created with Sketch. Studio Procedures /studio-procedur… link_arrow Created with Sketch. Studio-X Global Network /studio-x link_arrow Created with Sketch. Summer Workshops /summer-workshop… link_arrow Created with Sketch. Support GSAPP https://arch.giv… link_arrow Created with Sketch. T Travel Guide /finance-adminis… link_arrow Created with Sketch. U URBAN Magazine /urban-mag link_arrow Created with Sketch. University Apartment Housing (UAH) http://facilitie… link_arrow Created with Sketch. University Resources /university-reso… link_arrow Created with Sketch. V Virtual Studios /hybrid-pedagogy… link_arrow Created with Sketch. Visual Resources Collection (VRC) Fayerweather 204 directory_address Created with Sketch. /vrc link_arrow Created with Sketch. W Website Steffen Boddeker, Shannon Werle directory_staff Created with Sketch. /website-colopho… link_arrow Created with Sketch. Links for... COVID-19 Resources Hybrid Pedagogy Guide GSAPP COVID-19 Resources Columbia COVID-19 Resources Student Health Services Students & Faculty Student Resources Faculty Resources Course Listing 2022 Commencement Prospective students 2021 Virtual Open House Thinking about Applying Compare Programs Student Work Columbia University Columbia Student Resources University Directory Office of University Life Columbia Libraries Close This website uses cookies as well as similar tools and technologies to understand visitors' experiences. By continuing to use this website, you consent to Columbia University's usage of cookies and similar technologies, in accordance with the Columbia University Website Cookie Notice Group 6 Data & Design Events Pedagogy Research Publications & Exhibitions The spatial applications of computation and data permeate all aspects of daily life, from our homes to our cities, transforming the ways we live, work, move, and interact. Advances in information, manufacturing, and material technologies are fueling new modes of making and thinking about designed environments, both physical and virtual. While emerging technologies have increased social connectivity and introduced new forms of collectivity, they have also empowered institutional systems to implement discriminatory and extractive practices. How can the disciplines of the built environment harness these emerging technologies to design creatively, equitably, and sustainably, while also interrogating and actively confronting their pitfalls? This webpage features a collection of resources on GSAPP’s ongoing work on Data & Design. This list will continue to be updated. If you have suggestions or comments, please contact communications@arch.columbia.edu. Events Listed below are selected GSAPP events presented by the Office of the Dean since Fall 2014. Mon, Feb 7 12:30pm AAU ANASTAS Lecture Virtual Fri, May 7, 2021 9am After Concrete: Redefining Materials and Energy in the Anthropocene Conference Virtual Fri, Oct 11, 2019 9:30am Digital Urbanisms Conference Conference New York Fri, Feb 15, 2019 9:30am 2019 Fitch Colloquium Record / Replay Alumni New York Fri, Sep 7, 2018 2pm Labs, Incubators, Colonies Discussion New York Fri, Feb 9, 2018 9:30am Ways of Knowing Cities Conference New York Fri, Sep 23, 2016 1pm Imaginary Futures Conference New York 1 / 5 CONVERSATIONS Designing New York: Prefabrication in the Public Realm January 28, 2021 Presentations by Ada Tolla, LOT-EK and Columbia GSAPP Faculty; Ben Busche, Brut Deluxe; Carlo Ratti, Carlo Ratti Associati; and Ronnie Markussen, Human Habitat. Moderated by Rebecca Macklis, Senior Urban Design Manager, NYC Public Design Commission and Laurie Hawkinson, Professor of Architecture, Columbia GSAPP; Partner, Smith-Miller + Hawkinson Architects; Commissioner, NYC Public Design Commission. Building Cultures: Making in Nairobi, Lagos, Accra/Tema, and Johannesburg September 6, 2019 What is the potential impact of maker culture on manufacturing, technology, and construction ecologies in each of these cities? Nifemi Marcus-Bello, Naeem Biviji, Thabisa Mjo, and DK Osseo-Asare, in conversation with Mpho Matsipa and introduced by Josh Jordan. Organized in collaboration with Mpho Matsipa, School of Architecture and Planning, University of the Witwatersrand, South Africa. Listen to DK Osseo-Asare and Naeem Biviji in Podcast episode #74 Architecture and Artificial Intelligence April 12, 2019 As strands of artificial intelligence increasingly touch almost all fields, how do they impact architecture and the built environment? A conversation among Julie Dorsey, Natasha Luthra, and Douwe Osinga, moderated by David Benjamin. Data Publics and Public Data April 4, 2019 This event features talks by Brian House, who discusses his design of a platform to collect geographic data through mobile devices, and by Jia Zhang, who presents her design of an interactive atlas that bridges large public datasets and everyday experiences of urban space. Followed by a conversation among Laura Kurgan, Shannon Mattern, Bill Rankin, and Jer Thorp. Organized by the Center for Spatial Research. Empathy and Immersion February 1, 2019 What architectural language has yet to be created by a new form of “projection”? A conversation among immersive director, writer, and theorist Jessica Brillhart; computer scientist Steve Feiner; designer and filmmaker Keiichi Matsuda; and author Frank Rose; moderated by Lindsey Wikstrom. Thinking Through Making September 14, 2018 A conversation among artists and designers on their intertwined material choices and conceptual interests. Presentations by E.V. Day, Marc Ganzglass, Sarah Oppenheimer, and Allan Wexler followed by a conversation moderated by Josh Jordan, Ada Tolla, and Giuseppe Lignano. Read More Viztech: Converging Pedagogies and Practices February 16, 2018 This conference addresses how the fields of Visual Studies and Technology have merged in pedagogy and in practice at GSAPP. Catalyzed by accelerations, with constantly updated versions of digital technology, this expanded terrain has become an opportunity for GSAPP to reimagine its relationship to the built environment and to the design process. Organized by Laura Kurgan and Craig Schwitter. Listen to Laura Kurgan in Podcast episode #24 Subject, Object: Making in NYC January 26, 2018 Presentations on emerging approaches to design and fabrication by Arielle Assouline-Lichten, Wendy W Fok, Ryan Luke Johns, Josh Jordan, Madison Maxey, and Wes Rozen. By bringing these creative practitioners together, and in conversation with the GSAPP Fabrication Lab, the event aims to plot a local geography of innovative fabrication in New York City. Radical Technologies: The Design of Everyday Life September 15, 2017 Writer and urbanist Adam Greenfield in conversation with Laura Kurgan on the relationship between humans and the networked objects, services, and spaces that define their lives, as well as the Silicon Valley consensus that is determining the shape of our future. Presented by the Center for Spatial Research. Architectural Narratives January 27, 2017 This discussion focuses on current modes of architectural storytelling from social media to photography and filmmaking, digital visualization to immersive experience, and VR. Presentations by Rama Allen, Kai-Uwe Bergmann, James Ewing, and Ziv Schneider, followed by a conversation moderated by Cassim Shepard. Interface: Negotiating Convergence in Architectural Technology October 28, 2016 This discussion explores how the overlaps among architectural technology, fabrication, and engineering redefine a multidisciplinary space for design. A conversation among John Cerone, Ben Gilmartin, and Thorsten Helbig, moderated by Craig Schwitter. Conflict Urbanism October 7, 2016 Eyal Weizman and Enrico Bertini participate in a roundtable with members of the Center for Spatial Research (CSR) including Laura Kurgan, Juan Francisco Saldarriaga, Grga Basic, Dare Brawley, Violet Whitney, and Michael Storm. The discussion focuses on the CSR project “Conflict Urbanism: Aleppo,” an interactive web-based map representing the intensifying violence in urban Aleppo after five years of civil war in Syria. Co-Organized by the Center for Spatial Research. Search and Research September 16, 2016 This event focuses on the role of research and its different methodologies in a range of creative practices. A conversation among Amale Andraos, Kadambari Baxi, Giovanna Borasi, Matthew Buckingham, Michael Meredith, and Nader Tehrani. Processing Design: Making And Modeling September 9, 2016 While technology proliferates and becomes ever-more democratized, the expectation of technological expertise expands and speciates into new roles for makers. A conversation among Billie Faircloth, Mariana Ibañez, and Quayola, moderated by Josh Jordan. Entrepreneurship, Technology, and the City October 9, 2015 How might the current wave of incubator spaces and co-working communities impact architecture and urban development? Presentations from Daniel Doctoroff and Vishaan Chakrabarti followed by a discussion about entrepreneurship, technology, and the city with Amale Andraos and David Benjamin*. Show Less Viztech: Converging Pedagogies and Practices February 16, 2018 This conference addresses how the fields of Visual Studies and Technology have merged in pedagogy and in practice at GSAPP. Catalyzed by accelerations, with constantly updated versions of digital technology, this expanded terrain has become an opportunity for GSAPP to reimagine its relationship to the built environment and to the design process. Organized by Laura Kurgan and Craig Schwitter. Listen to Laura Kurgan in Podcast episode #24 Subject, Object: Making in NYC January 26, 2018 Presentations on emerging approaches to design and fabrication by Arielle Assouline-Lichten, Wendy W Fok, Ryan Luke Johns, Josh Jordan, Madison Maxey, and Wes Rozen. By bringing these creative practitioners together, and in conversation with the GSAPP Fabrication Lab, the event aims to plot a local geography of innovative fabrication in New York City. Radical Technologies: The Design of Everyday Life September 15, 2017 Writer and urbanist Adam Greenfield in conversation with Laura Kurgan on the relationship between humans and the networked objects, services, and spaces that define their lives, as well as the Silicon Valley consensus that is determining the shape of our future. Presented by the Center for Spatial Research. Architectural Narratives January 27, 2017 This discussion focuses on current modes of architectural storytelling from social media to photography and filmmaking, digital visualization to immersive experience, and VR. Presentations by Rama Allen, Kai-Uwe Bergmann, James Ewing, and Ziv Schneider, followed by a conversation moderated by Cassim Shepard. Interface: Negotiating Convergence in Architectural Technology October 28, 2016 This discussion explores how the overlaps among architectural technology, fabrication, and engineering redefine a multidisciplinary space for design. A conversation among John Cerone, Ben Gilmartin, and Thorsten Helbig, moderated by Craig Schwitter. Conflict Urbanism October 7, 2016 Eyal Weizman and Enrico Bertini participate in a roundtable with members of the Center for Spatial Research (CSR) including Laura Kurgan, Juan Francisco Saldarriaga, Grga Basic, Dare Brawley, Violet Whitney, and Michael Storm. The discussion focuses on the CSR project “Conflict Urbanism: Aleppo,” an interactive web-based map representing the intensifying violence in urban Aleppo after five years of civil war in Syria. Co-Organized by the Center for Spatial Research. Search and Research September 16, 2016 This event focuses on the role of research and its different methodologies in a range of creative practices. A conversation among Amale Andraos, Kadambari Baxi, Giovanna Borasi, Matthew Buckingham, Michael Meredith, and Nader Tehrani. Processing Design: Making And Modeling September 9, 2016 While technology proliferates and becomes ever-more democratized, the expectation of technological expertise expands and speciates into new roles for makers. A conversation among Billie Faircloth, Mariana Ibañez, and Quayola, moderated by Josh Jordan. Entrepreneurship, Technology, and the City October 9, 2015 How might the current wave of incubator spaces and co-working communities impact architecture and urban development? Presentations from Daniel Doctoroff and Vishaan Chakrabarti followed by a discussion about entrepreneurship, technology, and the city with Amale Andraos and David Benjamin*. Designing New York: Prefabrication in the Public Realm January 28, 2021 A conversation among Ada Tolla, Ben Busche, Carlo Ratti, and Ronnie Markussen. Moderated by Rebecca Macklis and Laurie Hawkinson Up next Designing New York: Prefabrication in the Public Realm Up next Building Cultures: Making in Nairobi, Lagos, Accra/Tema, and Johannesburg Up next Architecture And Artificial Intelligence Up next Empathy and Immersion Up next Thinking Through Making Up next Subject, Object: Making in NYC Up next Constructing Practice Up next Architectural Narratives Up next Interface: Negotiating Convergence In Architectural Technology Up next Conflict Urbanism Up next Imaginary Futures Conference Up next Search And Research Up next Processing Design: Making And Modeling LECTURES Nader Tehrani March 22, 2021 Ekene Ijeoma is an artist, professor at MIT, and the founder and director of the Poetic Justice group at MIT Media Lab. Response by Amina Blacksher. Nader Tehrani March 15, 2021 Nader Tehrani is Founding Principal of NADAAA, a practice dedicated to the advancement of design innovation, interdisciplinary collaboration, and an intensive dialogue with the construction industry. Response by Amale Andraos. Lola Ben-Alon September 14, 2020 Lola Ben-Alon specializes in socially and environmentally sustainable building practices, natural building materials, and engineering-architecture collaborations. Her current work focuses on quantitative and qualitative methods to evaluate the environmental and social impacts of biophilic design and natural building materials. Response by Lucia Allais. Alexandra Daisy Ginsberg October 7, 2019 Ginsberg discusses new work that examines connections between ecology and technology, including her projects on wilding the planet Mars and resurrecting the smell of flowers made extinct by humans. Response by David Benjamin. Listen to Alexandra Daisy Ginsberg in Podcast episode #80 Paola Antonelli October 3, 2019 In the lecture “Broken Nature: Design Takes on Human Survival,” Antonelli presents the potentials of restorative design in the Anthropocene and her curation of over 100 projects for the 22nd edition of the Milan Triennial. The event includes an introduction by Carol Becker and response by Amale Andraos. Jesse LeCavalier September 16, 2019 LeCavalier’s lecture “Landscapes of Fulfillment,” is divided into three parts: three observations about infrastructure; ten claims about logistics; and an introduction to three projects: Public Facility: Meadowlands; Architectures of Fulfillment; and Shelf Life. Response by Kate Orff. Listen to Jesse LeCavalier in Podcast episode #75 Sheila Kennedy and J. Frano Violich October 1, 2018 Kennedy and Violich deliver the lecture “Three Partial Paradigms,” a discussion of how their design practice KVA MATx explores the intersections of architecture, digital technology, and emerging public needs. Response by Christoph Kumpusch. Listen to Sheila Kennedy and J. Frano Violich in Podcast episode #56 Felecia Davis September 13, 2018 Davis, director of the Computational Textiles Lab (SOFTLAB), discusses her research on computational materials and textiles. The lecture examines how responsive textiles transform how we communicate, socialize and use space. Response by Laurie Hawkinson. Listen to Felecia Davis in Podcast episode #52 Read More Andrés Jaque April 9, 2018 Jaque delivers a lecture titled “The Politics of Transmaterial Design” and discusses recent projects by the Office for Political Innovation, based in Madrid and New York. The lecture covers work that sits at the intersection of design, research, and activism. Response by Amale Andraos. Listen to Andrés Jaque in Podcast episode #64 Philip Yuan February 12, 2018 Yuan, founder of Archi-Union Architects, discusses his firm’s focus on digital technology and craftsmanship. The lecture features projects that employ robotic masonry fabrication systems, computational structural design and optimization programs, and experimental material applications. Response by Christoph Kumpusch. Show Less Andrés Jaque April 9, 2018 Jaque delivers a lecture titled “The Politics of Transmaterial Design” and discusses recent projects by the Office for Political Innovation, based in Madrid and New York. The lecture covers work that sits at the intersection of design, research, and activism. Response by Amale Andraos. Listen to Andrés Jaque in Podcast episode #64 Philip Yuan February 12, 2018 Yuan, founder of Archi-Union Architects, discusses his firm’s focus on digital technology and craftsmanship. The lecture features projects that employ robotic masonry fabrication systems, computational structural design and optimization programs, and experimental material applications. Response by Christoph Kumpusch. Nader Tehrani March 15, 2021 Learn more here. Up next Nader Tehrani Up next Lola Ben-Alon Up next Stephen Burks Up next Alexandra Daisy Ginsberg Up next Jesse LeCavalier Up next Sheila Kennedy and J. Frano Violich Up next Felecia Davis Up next Andrés Jaque Up next Philip Yuan Pedagogy Below is a selection of recent GSAPP courses and curricular initiatives that explore the ways that computation, data, and new forms of making are reshaping how we understand and create the built environment at all scales. Digital Heritage Documentation Bilge Kose, Spring 2021, Historic Preservation Generative Design Danil Nagy, Spring 2021, Architecture X Information Modeling Luc Wilson, Snoweria Zhang, Spring 2021, Architecture Re-Thinking BIM Jared Friedman, Spring 2021, Architecture Architectural Daylighting Davidson Norris, Spring 2021, Architecture Read More Data Visualization for Architecture, Urbanism and the Humanities Jia Zhang, Fall 2020, All programs Environmental Data Analysis Peter Marcotullio and Kaz Sakamoto, Fall 2020, Urban Planning Generative Design I Danil Nagy, Fall 2020, Architecture Geographic Information Systems Leah Meisterlin, Fall 2020, Urban Planning Introduction to Programming in Python for RED Eric Schles, Fall 2020, Real Estate Development Introduction to Urban Data and Informatics Boyeong Hong, Fall 2020, Urban Planning Machine Learning in Python Fall 2020, Real Estate Development Measuring the Great Indoors Gabrielle Brainard and Violet Whitney, Fall 2020, Architecture and Urban Design Metatool I Dan Taeyoung, Fall 2020, Architecture Proptech: Nothing Ventured, Nothing Gained Zachary Aarons, Fall 2020, Real Estate Development Public Interest Technology: Cities, Design, Code, Reporting Laura Kurgan, Fall 2020, All programs Re-Thinking BIM Jared Friedman, Fall 2020, Architecture Transitional Geometries Joshua Jordan, Fall 2020, Architecture X Information Modeling I Luc Wilson, Fall 2020, Architecture Virtual Architecture: World Building and Virtual Reality Workshop Nitzan Bartov, Spring 2020, Visual Studies Advanced Studio III - Historic Preservation Technology Studio Carlos Bayod Lucini, Fall 2019, Historic Preservation User-Centered Design for Emerging Digital-Physical Environments Agnes Chang, Spring 2020, Visual Studies Mapping for Architecture, Urbanism, and Humanities Emily Furhman, Spring 2020, Visual Studies Advanced VI Studio: Factory Mimi Hoang, Spring 2020, Architecture Exploring Urban Data with Machine Learning Boyeong Hong, Spring 2020, Urban Planning Material Things Josh Jordan, Spring 2020, Building Science & Technology Digital Heritage Documentation Bilge Kose, Spring 2020, Historic Preservation Generative Design I Danil Nagy, Spring 2020, Visual Studies Tools for Show: Ready for Replicas Bika Rebek, Spring 2020, Visual Studies Points Unknown: Cartographic Narratives Juan Saldarriaga, Michael Krisch, Spring 2020, Visual Studies Urban Informatics Anthony Vanky, Spring 2020, Urban Planning Urbanisms & Algorithms I Luc Wilson, Spring 2020, Visual Studies Transformable Design Methods Matthew Davis, Fall 2019, Building Science & Technology Transitional Geometries Josh Jordan, Fall 2019, Building Science & Technology Hacking the Urban Experience John Locke, Fall 2019, Visual Studies Realtime Farzin Lotfi-Jam and Greg Schleusner, Fall 2019, Visual Studies Geographic Information Systems Leah Meisterlin, Fall 2019, Urban Planning Narrative Urbanism: Strategic Storytelling for Designers and Planners Cassim Shepard, Fall 2019, Urban Design Advanced Studio V: Analog at Play Oana Stanescu, Fall 2019, Architecture Metatool I Dan Taeyoung, Fall 2019, Visual Studies Advanced Spatial Analysis Anthony Vanky, Fall 2019, Urban Planning Datamining the City I Violet Whitney, Fall 2019, Visual Studies Measuring the Great Indoors Violet Whitney and Gabrielle Brainard, Fall 2019, Building Science & Technology Cross-Species Test Sites Chris Woebken, Fall 2019, Building Science & Technology Show Less Data Visualization for Architecture, Urbanism and the Humanities Jia Zhang, Fall 2020, All programs Environmental Data Analysis Peter Marcotullio and Kaz Sakamoto, Fall 2020, Urban Planning Generative Design I Danil Nagy, Fall 2020, Architecture Geographic Information Systems Leah Meisterlin, Fall 2020, Urban Planning Introduction to Programming in Python for RED Eric Schles, Fall 2020, Real Estate Development Introduction to Urban Data and Informatics Boyeong Hong, Fall 2020, Urban Planning Machine Learning in Python Fall 2020, Real Estate Development Measuring the Great Indoors Gabrielle Brainard and Violet Whitney, Fall 2020, Architecture and Urban Design Metatool I Dan Taeyoung, Fall 2020, Architecture Proptech: Nothing Ventured, Nothing Gained Zachary Aarons, Fall 2020, Real Estate Development Public Interest Technology: Cities, Design, Code, Reporting Laura Kurgan, Fall 2020, All programs Re-Thinking BIM Jared Friedman, Fall 2020, Architecture Transitional Geometries Joshua Jordan, Fall 2020, Architecture X Information Modeling I Luc Wilson, Fall 2020, Architecture Virtual Architecture: World Building and Virtual Reality Workshop Nitzan Bartov, Spring 2020, Visual Studies Advanced Studio III - Historic Preservation Technology Studio Carlos Bayod Lucini, Fall 2019, Historic Preservation User-Centered Design for Emerging Digital-Physical Environments Agnes Chang, Spring 2020, Visual Studies Mapping for Architecture, Urbanism, and Humanities Emily Furhman, Spring 2020, Visual Studies Advanced VI Studio: Factory Mimi Hoang, Spring 2020, Architecture Exploring Urban Data with Machine Learning Boyeong Hong, Spring 2020, Urban Planning Material Things Josh Jordan, Spring 2020, Building Science & Technology Digital Heritage Documentation Bilge Kose, Spring 2020, Historic Preservation Generative Design I Danil Nagy, Spring 2020, Visual Studies Tools for Show: Ready for Replicas Bika Rebek, Spring 2020, Visual Studies Points Unknown: Cartographic Narratives Juan Saldarriaga, Michael Krisch, Spring 2020, Visual Studies Urban Informatics Anthony Vanky, Spring 2020, Urban Planning Urbanisms & Algorithms I Luc Wilson, Spring 2020, Visual Studies Transformable Design Methods Matthew Davis, Fall 2019, Building Science & Technology Transitional Geometries Josh Jordan, Fall 2019, Building Science & Technology Hacking the Urban Experience John Locke, Fall 2019, Visual Studies Realtime Farzin Lotfi-Jam and Greg Schleusner, Fall 2019, Visual Studies Geographic Information Systems Leah Meisterlin, Fall 2019, Urban Planning Narrative Urbanism: Strategic Storytelling for Designers and Planners Cassim Shepard, Fall 2019, Urban Design Advanced Studio V: Analog at Play Oana Stanescu, Fall 2019, Architecture Metatool I Dan Taeyoung, Fall 2019, Visual Studies Advanced Spatial Analysis Anthony Vanky, Fall 2019, Urban Planning Datamining the City I Violet Whitney, Fall 2019, Visual Studies Measuring the Great Indoors Violet Whitney and Gabrielle Brainard, Fall 2019, Building Science & Technology Cross-Species Test Sites Chris Woebken, Fall 2019, Building Science & Technology Research Recent and ongoing research initiatives at GSAPP are highlighted below. Learn more here. Homophily: the Urban History of an Algorithm Center for Spatial Research The exhibition puts the formalization of homophily in tension with its conceptual and historical origins. 210 Cities in San Diego Assistant Professor Leah Meisterlin The installation features a grid of 210 vacuum-formed polystyrene panels printed using a UV digital printing process to visualize an investigation of employment statistics that include over 430,000 unique commuters. Never Built New York GSAPP Making Studio Launched in Summer 2017 at the Queens Museum, Never Built New York is a collaborative exhibition curated by authors Sam Lubell and Greg Goldin and produced in part by the GSAPP Fabrication Lab. Publications and Exhibitions GSAPP Publications and Exhibitions offer platforms for developing research and creative investigations on how emerging technologies are changing the way we design, engage, and historicize the built environment. A selection of scholarship, new commissions, and curatorial projects is featured below. Ways of Knowing Cities Preservation and the New Data Landscape Signal. Image. Architecture. Modern Management Methods: Architecture, Historical Value, and the Electromagnetic Image Feb 9 – Mar 10, 2017 Stagecraft: Models and Photos Arthur Ross Architecture Gallery Sep 3 – Oct 14, 2017 Making Never Built New York Avery Hall, 4th floor gallery Oct 22 – Nov 20, 2016 Buckminster Fuller’s World Game Galata Greek Primary School, Istanbul, Turkey Mar 30 – Jun 9, 2017 Liam Young: New Romance Arthur Ross Architecture Gallery 1 / 8 A SELECTION OF ARTICLES FROM THE AVERY REVIEW Louise Hickman, “‘On the Basis of Safety’: The Forced Intimacies of Accessible Air Travel,” in the Avery Review 48 (June 2020). Matthew Stewart “The Architecture of Banal Bureaucracy: WeWork and Algorithmic Design,” in the Avery Review 42 (October 2019). Caitlin Blanchfield and Nina Valerie Kolowratnik, “‘Persistent Surveillance”: Militarized Infrastructure on the Tohono O’odham Nation,” in the Avery Review 40 (May 2019). Lina Malfona, “The Circle: Geographies of Network vs. Geometries of Disjunction,” in the Avery Review 30 (March 2018). Jordan Geiger, “Inside Circles: Electronic Monitoring, Economic Redundancies, Enclosure,” in the Avery Review 23 (April 2017). Wade Cotton and Isabelle Kirkham-Lewitt, “Model Wombs,” in the Avery Review 22 (March 2017). Jordan Carver, “Signal to Astro Noise,” in the Avery Review 14 (March 2016). McKenzie Wark, “Capture All: SimCity, Gamespace, and Play,” in the Avery Review 6 (March 2015). Also see the related thematic pages for GSAPP’s work on Climate and Equity. Homepage Image Credits Daylight analysis by Mariami Maghlakelidze completed during the Fall 2020 Re-Thinking BIM course led by Re-Thinking BIM. Project by Jade Watkins completed during the Fall 2020 Intro to Urban Data and Informatics course led by Boyeong Hong. Project by Angel Castillo completed during the Fall 2020 Transitional Geometries course led by Josh Jordan. Columbia University Graduate School of Architecture, Planning and Preservation 1172 Amsterdam Avenue New York, New York 10027 (212) 854-3414 Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Please click here to sign up for occasional emails © 2022 Columbia University / Colophon