Skip to main content Temple University Explore Temple’s Schools and Colleges Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Support Temple Temple University Search Site Search Full Menu Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees President History & Traditions Temple Health News & Media Offices Public Information Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Development Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Libraries Tobacco Free Temple You are here Home Life at Temple Tobacco Free Temple Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Preferred Name Use Pronoun Use and Gender Identity Temple Thought Leaders Housing & Dining Health & Wellness COVID-19: Keeping Our Community Safe & Healthy COVID-19 FAQ Testing & Tracing Vaccines Academics, Tuition & Aid Temple HEERF III Grant Student Housing & On-campus Life Work-life for Faculty & Staff Faculty Teaching Information Return Scenario Planning Temple Community Health Advisory Group University Communication Vaccination Rates and Active COVID-19 Cases at Temple University International Campuses and Programs City Life Philadelphia Visiting Temple Accommodations Dining Options Religious Services Information FAQs Safety Main Campus and Philadelphia Safety FAQ Contact Temple RAVE Temple Guardian App Community Programs and Research University News Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Campus Life Arts and Culture Clubs and Organizations Housing, Dining and OWLcards Parking and Transportation Safety Student Banking Student Centers Wireless, Computers and Phone Academics Advising and Academic Support Courses and Calendars International Students Libraries Registration, Grades and Books Schools and Colleges Health and Wellness Athletics and Fitness Health and Counseling Tuition and Financial Aid Financial Aid Tuition and Billing Careers and Internships Career Center Internships Student Jobs Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees Presidential Search President University Leadership Board of Trustees Updates Past Presidents 2019 State of the University History & Traditions Russell Conwell Temple Traditions Acres of Diamonds Honorary Degrees Past Honorary Degree Recipients Temple Health News & Media Media Mentions Temple University Wallpapers Temple's Impact Career in Charitable Change Fueled by Temple Experiences Advancing Breast Cancer Research Leaders in HIV Research 21st-century Learning Temple Firsts Paving the Way Medical & Community Support Student Support Contact members of Strategic Marketing and Communications Offices Public Information Facts About Temple Faculty & Staff Resources Working at Temple Calendars and Time Off Holiday Schedule Careers at Temple Human Resources Performance and Training Business Services Catering Exception Policy Double Tree Catering/ Conferences Contact Frequently Asked Questions Trademark Licensing Policy Corporate Responsibility Logo and Graphics Guide Guidelines for Trademark Use The Student, Faculty and Staff Guide to Ordering Licensed Temple Products Becoming Licensed Trademark and Licensing FAQ Where to Buy Temple Gear University-approved Hotels Club Quarters DoubleTree Hotel Hilton Garden Inn Hilton Philadelphia at Penn's Landing Loews Hotel Sonesta Philadelphia The Conwell Inn Campus Services Computers, Email and Phones Conferences and Meetings Health Sciences Center Form Main Campus Meeting Space Howard Gittis Student Center Form Documents & Insurance Facilities and Space ID Cards Parking and Transportation Faculty Resources Calendars, Schedules and Grades Courses and Curricula Instructional Resources Faculty Senate and News Research and Grants Finance and Travel Accounting and Budget Employee Banking and Finance Tuition Remission Travel and Expenses Wellness and Safety Fitness and Health Safety and Alerts Campus Development Frequently Asked Questions Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Data Integrity and Data Verification Unit In-scope Materials Quick Reference Guide Rankings Data Overview and Updates Additional Resources Frequently Asked Questions FAQ: Fox School of Business MBA rankings Enterprise Risk Management Key Terms and Definitions Helpline Frequently Asked Questions Resources Compliance With the Four Pillars Who We Are Libraries Charles Library Jump to: Overview of Tobacco-free Policy Cessation Resources Frequently Asked Questions Contact and Follow Tobacco Free Temple Additional Resources Overview of Tobacco-free Policy Effective July 1, 2019 Temple University is committed to providing a tobacco-free environment for the entire community. The tobacco-free campus policy applies to all U.S. Temple University facilities, properties and vehicles. Smoking and the use of tobacco products shall not be permitted in any buildings, parking lots, pathways, covered entrances, sports/recreational facilities and stadiums, Liacouras Walk, Polett Walk, Beasley Walk, the Bell Tower and adjacent lawns, O’Connor Plaza, and any other campus walkways or plazas. Where Temple buildings are adjacent to public sidewalks or streets, smoking and the use of tobacco products is prohibited on those public sidewalks and streets within 20 feet of building entrances. Temple University will not permit the inclusion of any tobacco-related advertising in any Temple-produced publications, marketing or social media, subject to constitutional limitations. Definition of Tobacco Tobacco is defined as all tobacco-derived or tobacco-containing products, including but not limited to: cigarettes (e.g. clove, bidis, kreteks, cigars and cigarillos); electronic cigarettes; hookah-smoked products; pipes; oral tobacco (e.g. spit and spitless, smokeless, chew, snuff); nasal tobacco; nicotine delivery devices; and other products that mimic tobacco products, contain tobacco flavoring, or deliver nicotine. Products approved by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration, when used for cessation, are not considered tobacco under this policy; use of electronic cigarettes is not considered a means of cessation. Enforcement All university students, faculty, administrators, staff and visitors are responsible for cooperating to achieve the goal of this policy. Tobacco use by students on all university property is prohibited and is a violation under the Student Conduct Code. Violation of this policy will be handled in the same way as other violations. Tobacco use by administrators, faculty and staff on all university property is prohibited. This policy will be enforced in accordance with rules and regulations in the Employee Manual. Cessation Resources Internal Resources Wellness Resource Center: offers wellness consultations to explore stress management Phone: 215-204-8436 Email: bewelltu@temple.edu Address: 1755 N. 13th St. Student Center, 201 Philadelphia, PA 19122 215-204-8436 Office hours: Monday-Friday: 8:30 a.m.–5 p.m. Tuttleman Counseling Services: offers individual or group counseling with specialized counselors who provide comprehensive services to students with addictive behaviors Phone: 215-204-7276 Address: 1700 N. Broad St. 2nd floor Philadelphia, PA 19121 Independence Blue Cross: provides access to smoking cessation resources to employees enrolled in one of the university’s health plans Phone: 1-800-ASK-BLUE Employee Wellness Smoking Cessation Program Lifeworks: an app and a website that provide tobacco cessation resources for employees, including an incentive program to motivate users to keep healthy habits Total Wellness Rewards Program: an interactive app and website that allows employees to earn rewards for participating in smoking cessation programs Prescribed nicotine replacement therapy can be covered through Temple’s insurance. See below for more details on nicotine replacement therapy options. Temple Health Resources Smoking Cessation Program: provides access to specialists who use both medication and behavioral therapy, including support groups, to help people reach their goal of quitting smoking External Resources PA Free Quitline 1-800-QUIT-NOW Spanish: 1-855-DEJELO-YA Mandarin and Cantonese: 1-800-838-8917 Korean: 1-800-556-5564 Vietnamese: 1-800-778-8440 Fax: 1-800-261-6259 Free texts: Text START to 47848 Nicotine Replacement Therapy Nicotine replacement therapy can be purchased over the counter or prescribed. The patch, lozenges and nicotine gum can be purchased over the counter, while varenicline (Chantix), bupropion hydrochloride (Zyban), and Nicotrol nasal spray or inhalers can be prescribed by a healthcare provider. To learn more about nicotine replacement therapy options, visit the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention and American Cancer Society resource guides. Smoking Cessation Apps (available on Android or iOS) LIVESTRONG MyQuit Coach Free This app gives people the choice to quit cold turkey or to taper off. It allows for tracking of smoking consumption and nicotine cravings daily. When used regularly, the app detects patterns for when a person typically craves, and it sends alerts, reminders and motivation to the user. It also sends rewards for progress and has a built-in social support circle. Quit Smoking: Cessation Nation Free This interactive app connects you with other people quitting smoking. When the app is opened, it prompts the user to play games or talk to other users. This app also sends users alerts about how much money they are saving and the beneficial changes in their bodies. There are also reward badges for progress. QuitNow! Free This app comes in 44 languages and sends the user alerts about how much money they are saving and health benefits. It also has an interactive aspect in which users can connect with other people quitting smoking. Smoke Free Free This app not only tells the user how much money they are saving and about their health benefits, but also allows the user to log when they crave nicotine and interprets craving trends. Kwit Free This app makes quitting more like a game. The user tracks when they don’t smoke, and the app keeps track through stats of how much money the user is saving, cigarettes not smoked and their days of progress. Craving To Quit! $25 per month This app is designed to help smokers quit on a 21-day plan.The first four days are a free trial. The user has access to videos, a cigarette consumption tracker and reminders. The premium version includes access to a live coach within the app. Frequently Asked Questions Will I be fined if I smoke on campus? No. There is not a fine for a violation of the tobacco-free campus policy; however, it is a violation of the Student Conduct Code and the Employee Manual and Rules of Conduct. My JUUL doesn’t have tobacco in it. Does this mean I can still use it on campus? No. The tobacco-free campus policy includes all forms of electronic nicotine delivery devices (also known as e-cigarettes or vapes). I want to quit smoking but I need help. Are there resources on campus for students? Yes, there are many resources available for students, faculty and staff. Learn more. What are the benefits of a tobacco-free campus? Through the tobacco-free policy, Temple will be creating a healthier and cleaner environment for faculty, staff, students and visitors. How is a tobacco-free campus different than a smoke-free campus? Unlike a smoke-free campus, which prohibits the use of combustible tobacco products, including cigarettes, cigars and cigarillos, a tobacco-free campus also prohibits the use of smokeless tobacco (e.g. chew), as well as electronic nicotine delivery devices (e.g. e-cigarettes, vapes, JUUL). Will there be designated areas to smoke on campus? No. As this is a 100 percent tobacco-free campus, there will not be designated areas for use. Where can I go to smoke/vape? Students will have to leave campus to smoke/vape, but should be considerate to neighboring communities. Will this policy affect where I can buy tobacco products on campus? To the greatest extent possible, no tobacco or tobacco paraphernalia will be sold or distributed on Temple University property. Temple will work with tenants and vendors to phase in this requirement, acknowledging existing contractual commitments. I am not a student, but I often pass through Temple’s campus. What does this policy mean for me? The policy is intended to protect the health and well-being of all members of the community. In order to do so, there will be no use of any tobacco products on campus; the policy will be fully enforced for members of the Temple community as well as visitors to the campus, including vendors and contractors. Contact and Follow Tobacco Free Temple Email: TobaccoFreeTemple@temple.edu Twitter: @TobaccoFreeTU Instagram: @TobaccoFreeTU Additional Resources Tuttleman Counseling Services Campus Alcohol & Substance Awareness Wellness Consultations Go back to Life at TempleMore in Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Calendar Policies Social Media TUportal TUmail Accessibility Careers at Temple Safety & Emergency Information Ethics & Compliance Privacy Statement Professional Licensure Disclosures Follow Temple University Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community.