Skip to main content Go to site search Go to primary navigation Go to resources navigation Penn COVID-19 Response » Penn Home Toggle Site Navigation Toggle Site Search Academics More Academics Undergraduate Graduate Schools Global Initiatives Interdisciplinary Online Learning Off-campus Learning Libraries Admissions & Aid Athletics Research & Innovation More Research & Innovation Research Enterprise Research News Life at Penn More Life at Penn Arts & Culture Community Involvement More Community Involvement Penn & Philadelphia Diversity Groups & Organizations Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Safety & Security More Safety & Security Emergency Contacts Emergency Preparedness Spirituality & Religion About More About Introduction to Penn History Facts News, Media, & Communication Services Sustainability FAQ Penn’s Interim President, Wendell Pritchett Trustees & Administration Policies Toggle Site Search Resources Current Students Faculty & Staff Parents Alumni Visitors A-Z Directory Webmail Services Give to Penn Search Search Close Breadcrumb Home / Academics / Off-campus Learning Off-campus Learning Students know their Penn education can only be boosted by getting involved off campus. They immerse themselves in experiences near and far. Below are just a handful of highlighted opportunities. ABCS Courses Academically Based Community Service is at the core of the Netter Center’s work. ABCS students and faculty work with West Philadelphia public schools, communities of faith, and community organizations to help solve critical campus and community problems. Civic House Civic House is Penn’s hub for civic engagement, centering community organizations and social justice education, promoting mutually beneficial collaborations between Penn and Philadelphia community nonprofit organizations. Pennovation Center The Pennovation Works is anchored by the Pennovation Center, a business incubator and laboratory that aligns and integrates researchers, innovators, and entrepreneurs for the commercialization of research discoveries. Quaker Consortium Penn students have a unique opportunity to study at Bryn Mawr, Haverford, or Swarthmore Colleges during the fall and spring terms of the academic year. Penn Global Seminars Penn Global Seminars combine intensive semester-long study with a short-term travel component that deepens students’ understanding of concepts discussed in the classroom. Penn Abroad Penn Abroad serves as the hub for student global opportunities at Penn. Each year the University sends over 2,500 Penn students to more than 50 countries around the world on semester study abroad, summer internships, service learning, and short-term programs. Featured Story Envisioning gold History of Art’s Ivan Drpić is working with sophomore Logan Cho to create 3D renderings of what once-gilded paintings on the walls of a medieval church in Serbia would have looked like. Read Now Philadelphia, PA 19104 Telephone: (215) 898-5000 Contact Us Maps Parking Navigate Alumni Athletics Diversity Health Care Libraries Online Learning Penn Global Penn's Heritage As America’s first university, Penn has a history that dates back to 1740 and shares many ties with the colonial city of Philadelphia and the birth of our nation. Our History Disclaimer Emergency Services Nondiscrimination Privacy Policy Report Accessibility Issues and Get Help Report Copyright Infringement Back To Top