Skip to main content Clemson University Degrees Home Degree Programs MENU Health Science (B.S.) LEARN MORE ABOUT Majoring in health science starts with the basic — health. With each class, you’ll dive into specifics pertaining to your personal interests while always keeping a strong focus on health care. Some of our students see themselves in developing nations helping teach populations about disease prevention and sanitation. Others envision a more administrative role in a traditional hospital setting or volunteer health agency, while of course, many plan to go into medicine, dentistry, physical therapy and more. Anything is possible when you join one of the largest industries in the nation. No matter your dreams, we’ll provide you with the tools and training. Our graduates and our professors have worked and are working all over the world in every imaginable health-focused area. FAST FACTS In line with Clemson's land-grant mission, our program is focused on giving back to the people of South Carolina in the area of health. Electronic internship portfolios have been key to our graduates' gaining employment and admission to graduate and professional schools. Clemson-community partnerships allow our students to be part of health care to migrant populations, a mobile clinic, and breast and cervical cancer screenings, among other initiatives. WHAT YOU'LL STUDY The curriculum consists of core courses such as epidemiology, research and evaluation strategies, and human health and disease. With a couple of additional classes, you can get your degree with a focus in one of our three concentration areas. Everyone completes an individualized internship, including preparation of an electronic internship portfolio. Health Promotion and Behavior Concentration Your classes in this concentration focus on teaching you how to assess, plan, communicate, implement, manage and evaluate public health promotion problems. As you go, you’ll learn how to work effectively with different populations of people, and determine what problems they face and how to best treat them. Pre-Professional Health Studies Concentration Designed to prepare you for graduate or professional school, this concentration focuses on the classes and experience you’ll need to gain acceptance into various graduate and clinical programs including medical, physical therapy, occupational therapy, dental and other clinical professional schools. Health Services Administration Concentration Dive into business and health services classes with the administration focus. A minor in business administration is a required component of this concentration. Curriculum Health Science: Health Promotion and Behavior Concentration, B.S. Health Science: Health Services Administration Concentration, B.S. Health Science: Preprofessional Health Studies, B.S. Popular Minors Athletic Leadership Business Administration Food Science Modern Languages (Spanish) Psychology Sociology Similar Majors Biological Sciences (B.S./B.A.) Food Science and Human Nutrition (B.S.) Language and International Health (B.S.) Nursing (B.S.) Psychology (B.S./B.A.) EXPERIENCES BEYOND THE CLASSROOM Your health science experiences don’t end with your course work. Between the University and our department, you’ll have ample opportunities to grow and sharpen your skills with like-minded students. Internships We partner with local health organizations to provide you with a hands-on internship experience. Required to graduate, the 180 internship hours are completed during your junior or senior years. Honor Become a part of Eta Sigma Gamma, Clemson's professional honorary organization for health science/ health education. Join your peers to network, discuss research and develop programs.Learn More » Our Alumni Hear from some of our health sciences graduates as they talk about what they're doing now and how they use their health science degree every day.Learn More » CONNECT WITH OTHER STUDENTS Pre-Health Professions Honor Society, Alpha Epsilon Delta Pre-Dental Club of Clemson University (PREDENT) Institute for Healthcare Improvement (IHI) Open School Chapter AFTER GRADUATION Your college decision isn't really about the next four years. We get it. It's about what doors are opened by your degree and whether those opportunities are what you had envisioned for yourself. Here's a snapshot of what life after graduation looks like for some of our most recent students. WHERE OUR RECENT GRADUATES HAVE GONE KEY 41-100% 21-40% 11-20% 0-10% RECENT EMPLOYERS Research Coordinator MUSC Health Coach ChartSpan Associate Administrator Life Care Services Business Systems Change Agent Aetna Pharmaceutical Sales Representative Sanofi RECENT POSTGRADUATE STUDIES M.A. Bioethics and Medical Humanities Case Western Reserve University MD Optometry SUNY College of Optometry Doctor of Physical Therapy Medical University of South Carolina MD Medical University of South Carolina M.S. Communication Studies and Disorders Western Carolina University COMMON CAREER AREAS Health education or health promotion Public sector (hospitals, public health) Private sector (wellness programs, HMOs) Health administration and management Health systems and hospitals Professional offices Managed care or insurance industry Health-related associations Health-related sales and marketing Pharmaceuticals Medical supplies After completing graduate or professional school: Medicine (allopathic and osteopathic) Physical therapy Occupational therapy Dentistry Pharmacy Physician assistant Public health or population health Health care administration Health or medical informatics FIND OUT MORE Have more questions or want more information? Fill out the form below, which goes directly to the following department contact. If you’d also like to receive general University information from Clemson’s admissions office, please follow the link to the right and sign up to join our mailing list. Allysa Sutton Academic Adviser allysas@clemson.edu Department Website College Website Loading... Department Website College Website Home Admissions Campus Life Academics Visit Outreach Research About Apply To Clemson Undergraduate Graduate Professional Online Education Employment Opportunities Policy/Terms of Use Text Version Web Accessibility Ethics/Safety Line Privacy Policy Site Information Copyright © 2015 Clemson University Clemson, South Carolina 29634 864-656-3311 Contact Clemson Stories for the Clemson Family Clemson University on Facebook Clemson University on Twitter Clemson University on Google+ Clemson University on LinkedIn Clemson University on YouTube Clemson University on Flickr Clemson University on Instagram Search Clemson University degrees Clemson Degree Programs Search Alphabetical List Schedule a Visit Campus Life Admissions Costs & Financial Aid Similar Majors To Health Science (B.S.) Biological Sciences (B.S./B.A.) Food Science and Human Nutrition (B.S.) Language and International Health (B.S.) Nursing (B.S.) Psychology (B.S./B.A.)