Skip Navigation California State University, Fullerton Site Menu Division of Student Affairs Office of Financial Aid Main Navigation Undergraduate Show Extended Applying FAFSA Dream Act Cost of Attendance Disbursement Parent FAQs Maintaining Eligibility SAP Repeated Coursework R2T4 | Withdrawing Unit Cap Type of Awards Pell Grant FSEOG TEACH Grant Cal Grant California Dream Act Service Incentive Grant California Emergency Grant Chafee Grant SUG EOP Grant MCS Subsidized & Unsubsidized Parent Plus Dream Loan Federal Work Study Scholarships Credential Show Extended Applying FAFSA Dream Act Cost of Attendance Disbursement Parent FAQs Maintaining Eligibility SAP Repeated Coursework R2T4 | Withdrawing Unit Cap Type of Awards Pell Grant TEACH Grant Cal Grant California Emergency Grant Federal Work Study SUG Golden State Teacher Grant Subsidized & Unsubsidized Parent Plus Scholarships Dream Loan Graduate Show Extended Applying FAFSA Dream Act Cost of Attendance Disbursement FAQs Maintaining Eligibility SAP Repeated Coursework R2T4 | Withdrawing Unit Cap Type of Awards Golden State Teacher Grant TEACH Grant SUG Unsubsidized Graduate Plus Federal Work Study Scholarships Dream Loan Special Groups Show Extended Study Abroad Year Round Students Summer Forms & Appeals Contact Us Parent FAQs Consumer Information Disbursement FA Terms & Conditions FAFSA Dream Act Freshmen Guide Transfer Guide CSUF Net Price Calculator Golden State Teacher Grant (GSTG) Due in part to California’s emergency response to the COVID-19 pandemic, during the 2020-2021 academic year the GSTG program awards were only available to students currently enrolled in a teacher preparation program to earn a credential in Special Education. The Golden State Teacher Grant Program (GSTG) encourages students to consider earning a teaching credential and teach in a high-need field, at a priority school, in California for four years, within five years after completing a teacher preparation program. GSTG awards of up to $20,000 are available to students in teacher preparation programs approved by the California Commission on Teacher Credentialing (CTC). These include teacher internship and teacher residency programs. What Are the Grant Requirements? Before accepting the Golden State Teacher Grant, all applicants must agree to the terms and conditions of a Teaching Agreement. In addition to completing the program requirements and passing state credentialing exams, the Teaching Agreement requires recipients to fulfill several conditions: Complete the Teaching Agreement. The Teaching Agreement explains the student’s obligations under the provisions of the grant. Non-compliance with the Teaching Agreement will result in partial or full grant repayment. Maintain good academic standing while enrolled in the CTC approved teacher preparation program Commit to teach in the “high-need field” of special education at a “priority school” for four (4) years, within five (5) years after graduation from the teacher preparation program. Teach in a priority school. A “priority school” means a school with a high percentage, as determined by the Commission on Teacher Credentialing (CTC) in consultation with the California Department of Education (CDE), of teachers holding emergency-type permits, based on the most recent data available to the CTC and the CDE. By January 1, 2020, the CTC shall publish a list of priority schools. “Emergency-type permits” include, but are not limited to, any of the following: Provisional internships. Short-term staff permits. Credential waivers. Substitute permits. List of the CTC priority schools Instruct in a high-need field. A “high-need field” means any of the following: Bilingual education. Mathematics or science, technology, engineering, and mathematics (STEM), including career technical education in STEM areas. Science. Special education. Multiple subject instruction. Other subjects as designated annually by the Commission on Teacher Credentialing based on an analysis of the availability of teachers in California pursuant to Education Code Section 44225.6. What Are the Steps to Apply? Apply for a Golden State Teacher Grant . All applicants who meet the program eligibility criteria requirements will be sent a Letter of Acceptance and a Teaching Agreement. For more information, contact the California Student Aid Commission (CSAC) Golden State teacher Grant Program at: goldenstateteachers@csac.ca.gov Golden State Teacher Grant Website 1-888-224-7268 This site is maintained by Office of Financial Aid. Last Published 4/8/22 To report problems or comments with this site, please contact financialaid@fullerton.edu. © California State University, Fullerton. All Rights Reserved. Web Accessibility CSUF is committed to ensuring equal accessibility to our users. Let us know about any accessibility problems you encounter using this website. We'll do our best to improve things and get you the information you need. Resources: Download Adobe Acrobat Reader Adobe Reader Download Word viewer, or download Excel viewer, or download PowerPoint viewer Microsoft Viewers Report An ATI Issue Accessible @ CSUF Version_4.8.10 This page uses javascript to help render elements, if you have problems please enable javascript. This page uses accordion styles which rely on javascript. You do not have javascript enabled, some functions will be disabled.