Skip to content marquette.edu // Search // Contacts // A-Z Index Marquette UniversityKlingler College of Arts and Sciences Klingler College of Arts and Sciences About People Office of the Dean Faculty & Staff Directory Faculty Resources College Awardees Distinguished Alumni College Resources Academic Departments Centers and Institutes College Event Calendar College Magazine Mission and Diversity Interdisciplinary Programs Race, Ethnic and Indigenous Studies Students Current Students Academic Forms Academic Advising Internships Office of the Dean Prestigious Fellowships Student Organizations Student Resources Prospective Students View our College Viewbook Meet our Students Why Arts & Sciences? Explore our Majors Explore our Academic Departments Prospective Students Resources International Students Transfer Students Apply Now Undergraduate Majors Humanities Majors Interdisciplinary Programs Natural Sciences Majors Social Sciences Majors All Majors Minors All Minors Accelerated Degrees Accelerated Degree Programs Pre-Professional Studies Pre-dentistry, Pre-law, Pre-medicine Explore our College View Our College Viewbook Graduate Accelerated Degree Programs Graduate Admissions Graduate Bulletin Graduate Programs International Students Prestigious Fellowships Research Undergraduate Research Graduate Research Faculty Research Give Support Arts & Sciences A Lasting Legacy: Helen Way Klingler En Español Bienvenida de la Decana Misión, Visión, y Diversidad Aprende más The Liberal Arts Advantage Discover why employers value liberal arts degrees more than ever. Save Time and Money Earn your undergraduate and master's degree in five years with our accelerated degree programs. Explore Your Future With majors in interdisciplinary studies, the humanities, natural sciences and social sciences, the possibilities are endless. Become a Leader We are dedicated to helping our students find internships and research opportunities that prepare them for successful careers. Welcome to the Klingler College of Arts and Sciences! Be a part of the most academically diverse college on campus with over 40 majors offered through 14 academic departments. We offer baccalaureate, master’s and doctoral degree programs in a wide range of fields. College News and Events Congratulations 2022 Graduates! Congratulations graduates in the Klingler College of Arts and Sciences. Your Marquette education has prepared you for whatever lies ahead. We are confident that you will encounter exhilarating and transformative new horizons. We look forward to watching you Be the Difference and make the difference. 2022 Outstanding Senior Maddie Anderson delivers an address to the Arts and Sciences graduates. Dr. Satish Puri receives NSF CAREER Award Dr. Karen Andeen receives NSF CAREER Award Arts and Sciences Faculty honored at the Distinguished Scholars Program, which recognizes faculty for outstanding achievement in research and scholarship Marquette Bookshelf: The Trinity in History Vol 3: Redeeming History Two Biological Sciences Faculty Join the In Defense of Water Research Team Welcome Apply Today: Undergraduate Apply Today: Graduate Academic Advising Academic Forms Diversity and Inclusion Statement Explore our Majors Explore our Academic Departments Why Arts and Sciences? CONTACT Klingler College of Arts and Sciences Sensenbrenner Hall 1103 W. Wisconsin Ave. Milwaukee, WI 53233 (414) 288-7059 Contact Us ARTS & SCIENCES ON SOCIAL PROBLEM WITH THIS WEBPAGE? Report an accessibility problem To report another problem, please contact kirsten.boeh@marquette.edu. Arts and Sciences Viewbook Learn about the opportunities that will help you grow in the classroom and out with our interactive college viewbook. Arts and Sciences Magazine Read the latest stories and research publications straight from the source! Pre-professional Studies Advising for students who plan to attend law school, medical school, dental school or another health profession program. Location Klingler College of Arts & Sciences Sensenbrenner Hall, 103 1103 W. Wisconsin Ave. Milwaukee, WI 53233 Phone: (414) 288-7059 Key Resources Campus contacts Campus map Contact us Search marquette.edu eMarq CheckMarq D2L MyJob MARQUETTE A to Z ABCDEFGHIJKLM NOPQRSTUVWXYZ Privacy Policy Legal Disclaimer Non-Discrimination Policy Accessible Technology © 2022 Marquette University ©