Skip to main content Home About the School Apply to the School Exhibitions Publications News Public Events Close Yale School of Art 1156 Chapel Street, POB 208339 New Haven, Connecticut, 06520-8339 Pause animations Play animations Home About the School Apply to the School Exhibitions Publications News Public Events Pause animations Play animations This website exists as an ongoing collaborative experiment in digital publishing and information sharing. Because this website functions as a wiki, all members of the School of Art community—graduate students, faculty, staff, and alums—have the ability to add new content and pages, and to edit most of the site’s existing content. Content is the property of its various authors. When you contribute to this site, you agree to abide by Yale University academic and network use policy, and to act as a responsible member of our community. Visitor: Log in Edit this page Page history Page last changed by: Sara Cronquist Background changed by: Sara Cronquist Apply to the School The Yale School of Art is a graduate school that confers Master of Fine Arts Degrees in Graphic Design, Painting/Printmaking, Photography, and Sculpture For information on applications to the MFA program, please click the “Graduate Admission” link below. The undergraduate admissions process is handled entirely through Yale College. Please refer all undergraduate admissions questions to the Yale College Undergraduate Admissions Office. Editor details Last edited by: Lindsey Mancini Edit access: Everybody Graduate Admission Editor details Last edited by: Lindsey Mancini Edit access: Everybody Tuition, Fees, & Financing Your Education Editor details Last edited by: Lindsey Mancini Edit access: Everybody Graduate Study Areas Editor details Last edited by: Lindsey Mancini Edit access: Everybody Courses Editor details Last edited by: Lindsey Mancini Edit access: Everybody Housing Editor details Last edited by: Lindsey Mancini Edit access: Everybody Brochures and Documentation Editor details Last edited by: Lindsey Mancini Edit access: Everybody © 2022 Support the School Visiting Instagram Facebook YouTube Contact Sitemap Accessibility at Yale This website exists as an ongoing collaborative experiment in digital publishing and information sharing. Because this website functions as a wiki, all members of the School of Art community—graduate students, faculty, staff, and alums—have the ability to add new content and pages, and to edit most of the site’s existing content. Content is the property of its various authors. When you contribute to this site, you agree to abide by Yale University academic and network use policy, and to act as a responsible member of our community. Visitor: Log in Edit this page Page history Page last changed by: Sara Cronquist Background changed by: Sara Cronquist