Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Health Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Our Services Appointments Health Topics Events Forms and Guidelines Our Organization News See All Services What's Open Now Patient Resources Quarantine and Isolation Support Coping Tools Immunization Compliance Top Services Birth Control Education Individual Counseling Primary Care Register with Disability Services Sexual Assault: Get Support STI Testing Support Groups Travel Medicine Urgent Medical Concerns Workshops and Trainings Cost of Service Overview Make an Appointment Same Day Service Emergency and After-hours Support Alcohol Body Image Concerns Marijuana Disabilities Other Drugs HIV Insurance Men's Health Mental Health and Well-Being Anxiety Depression Stress Nutrition Physical Activity Relationships Overview Academic Relationships Friendships Roommates Sexual and Reproductive Health Sleep Transgender and Gender Expansive Health Violence Prevention Prevention Consent What Is Sexual Assault? Supporting a Survivor What Is Relationship Abuse? Stalking What Is Sexual Harassment? Bystander Intervention-Step UP! Women's Health See All Events Sexual Assault Awareness Month Columbia Health Flu Season Information Virtual Naloxone Training About Columbia Health Who We Are Who We Serve Confidentiality, Patient Rights, & Patient Responsibilities Operating Philosophy Video Library Your Feedback Staff Directory Health Units Alice! Health Promotion Counseling and Psychological Services Disability Services Gay Health Advocacy Project (GHAP) Insurance Office Medical Services Sexual Violence Response Columbia Health You are here: Home Denim Day Pledge Denim Day Pledge On Wednesday, April 27, 2022, Columbia community members can make a social statement with their fashion statement. Wear jeans or denim on this day as a visible sign of support for survivors of sexual assault. You can also use a Denim Day background (white and denim versions) for your Zoom calls that day or update your social media profile icon with a Denim Day icon. Webform On April 27, I will: wear jeans or denim as a visible demonstration of support for survivors of sexual assault. To help end sexual assault, I will: Speak out against jokes or attitudes that make light of or promote sexual violence or harassment. Recognize and speak up when you hear statements that blame victims. Talk to peers, family, or friends about these critical issues If I know a survivor, I will: Let them share their story, believe what they say, and offer unconditional support. Communicate without judgment, blame or pity. Assure them that it wasn’t their fault. Share appropriate campus resources: Sexual Violence Response: 212-854-HELP (4357) Counseling and Psychological Services: 212-854-2878 Title IX Coordinator: 212-853-1276 Name? Email Role at Columbia University - Select -StudentFacultyStaffOther If other, please specify: School or Department I want the world to know I signed the pledge!? I would like to hear more about SVR services and upcoming events.? Submit Download Denim Day digital assets: Image Carousel with 3 slides A carousel is a rotating set of images. Use the previous and next buttons to change the displayed slide Slide 1: Denim Day social media profile icon Slide 2: Denim Day Zoom background Slide 3: Denim Day Zoom background Denim Day social media profile icon Denim Day Zoom background Denim Day Zoom background Previous Next More About Denim Day The Denim Day campaign was created in response to a ruling by the Italian Supreme Court where a 1992 rape conviction was overturned years later in 1998 because the justices felt that since the victim was wearing tight jeans, she must have helped her rapist remove them, thereby implying consent. The next day, the women in the Italian Parliament wore jeans to show solidarity with the victim. Ever since, wearing jeans on Denim Day has become an international symbol of protest against erroneous and dangerous attitudes about sexual assault. Need help with weekend or late night distress? Check out our Coping Tools page for various digital services, mobile apps, and online resources outside our regular hours of operation. Our limited podcast series, Invisible and On Stage, provides an open conversation around racism-related stress, identity, and community, and the way they impact mental health. Listen now! The entire Columbia Health team, photographed in Lerner Hall. Click the image to see a larger version. Columbia Health Alice! Health Promotion Disability Services Counseling and Psychological Services Gay Health Advocacy Project (GHAP) Insurance Office Immunization Compliance Office Medical Services Sexual Violence Response All Columbia Health offices are closed on University Holidays. Annual Report Columbia Health Annual Report Stay Connected Receive important news and event info from Columbia Health Columbia Health Events Join us for workshops, panel discussions, skill-building opportunities, and other events! Accessibility Accommodations Columbia Health makes every effort to accommodate individuals with disabilities. If you require disability accommodations to attend an event sponsored by Columbia Health, or by the University, contact Disability Services at 212-854-2388 at least 10 days in advance of the event. 212-854-2284 [email protected] Columbia Health Administration Wallach Hall, Suite 125, Mail Code 4202, 1116 Amsterdam Avenue · New York, NY 10027 Phone 212-854-2284 Contact Us [email protected] Internal Use Only Login to Access Follow Us Facebook Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close