SMU Cox Display Navigation and Site Search SMU Cox School of Business SMU Cox Utility Navigation Students Companies Alumni Apply Contact Us smu.edu Display Navigation Display Search Search SMU SMU Cox Main Navigation At SMU Cox Display At SMU Cox Sub Menu An exceptional school in the heart of a vibrant, global, business-friendly city. Collins Center Cox News Cox Events Graduate Outcomes CoxToday Magazine Academic Departments Career Growth Global Programs Degrees & Programs Display At SMU Cox Sub Menu Rigorous programs within a truly customized academic experience. Master of Science MS in Accounting MS in Business Analytics MS in Finance MS in Management MS Health Promotion Management MS in Sport Management MBA Full-Time Two-Year MBA Full-Time One-Year MBA MBA Direct Professional MBA Online MBA Executive MBA Joint Degrees JD/MBA MA / MBA MS Engineering / MBA Undergraduate Bachelor of Business Administration Non-Degree Executive Education Summer Business Institute Diversity & Inclusion Display At SMU Cox Sub Menu Shaping Leaders for a Changing World. Diversity at Cox Latino Leadership Initiative I Am Latino in America Subiendo Academy at SMU Cox School Dean’s Message Executive Education Display At SMU Cox Sub Menu Meet your career challenges head-on by mining the expertise of the nation's top business leaders. Programs for Individuals Custom Solutions Latino Leadership Initiative HR Roundtable Graduate Certificates Collins Center Learning Culture Display At SMU Cox Sub Menu An innovative learning culture influences the way the world does business. Centers and Institutes Academic Departments Research Business Library NextGen Cox Curriculum People & Community Display At SMU Cox Sub Menu A community where professors know students by name and help them create powerful networks. Students Alumni Faculty Companies Cox Executive Board Cox100 Press Releases Display Search Utility Navigation Students Companies Alumni Apply Contact Us smu.edu JD/MBA JD/MBA Overview JD/MBA Student Profiles Overview JD/MBA Student Profiles Jump To A Section Overview 4-Year Degree 3-Year Degree Meet the Faculty Admissions Overview The JD/MBA dual degree program between the Cox School of Business and the Dedman School of Law offers business law–focused students an opportunity to boost their careers by having both law and business degrees. We offer two program formats to accommodate those with different academic backgrounds and post-graduation goals. By taking law and business courses simultaneously, you can gain a valuable understanding of commercial affairs from two different perspectives. 4-Year Degree The four-year JD/MBA degree combines the rigor and experiential learning of the Two Year MBA program at the Cox School of Business with the premier legal education provided by the Dedman School of Law. Students earn both degrees in four academic years (the JD degree normally requires three years to complete, and the MBA normally requires two years to complete), made possible because each school awards academic credit for a limited numbers of subject-appropriate courses taken in the other school. Who It's For The 4-year format is designed for: Candidates with any undergraduate degree or major Candidates interested in the option to seek either a business role or law profession Candidates that would gain from completing a concentration within the MBA curriculum Your first year of this program is completed entirely at the law school, and the summer after your first year is usually spent completing a law internship. The second year is spent exclusively in the business school, and includes a global leadership experience abroad, with that following summer at a business internship. In your third and fourth years, you take a combination of business and law electives in both schools to satisfy degree requirements, with your final summer internship is in the field you plan to pursue after graduation. Learn more about the SMU Cox Full-Time MBA program Learn more about the Dedman School of Law JD program 3-Year Degree Launched in 2016, the Cox School of Business and the Dedman School of Law have introduced a 3-year JD/MBA dual degree, which allows students with specific academic backgrounds and career goals to complete both degrees in three years. The 3-year format is made possible by the One Year MBA Program at the Cox School of Business. Students are able to complete both degrees on an accelerated timeline because each school gives students credit for a limited number of subject-appropriate courses taken in the other school. Who It's For This highly selective program is for students who: Candidates with an undergraduate degree in a business discipline, economics, or similarly quantitative field Candidates seeking to practice a law profession with business applications only Candidates seeking a general graduate business coursework rather than a specific concentration within the MBA curriculum This combined degree program is aimed at the very motivated and able student who starts with a solid grounding in business concepts, and seeks advanced training in business and a professional legal education in a time- and cost-effective manner. We expect students in the 3-year format to pursue careers in the legal field. Your first year of this program is completed entirely at the law school, followed by full-time classes at the business school during the summer. During your next two years, you will take both law and business courses to satisfy requirements for both degrees. Your summer between the second and third year are spent doing a law internship. Learn More about the SMU Cox One-Year MBA program Learn More about the SMU Dedman JD Program Meet the Faculty See All MBA Faculty Robin Pinkley Professor, Management and Organizations The recipient of SMU's Golden Mustang Award for innovative teaching, Robin is a recognized authority on strategic negotiation and conflict management. She's the author of the book "Get Paid What You’re Worth: The Expert Negotiators’ Guide to Salary and Compensation," and she has consulted with numerous corporate and government organizations. Sreekumar R. Bhaskaran Associate Professor of Information Technology and Operations Management Sreekumar Bhaskaran’s research focuses on new product development and innovation — he’s especially interested in how firms can overcome operational challenges as they transform ideas into value-delivering propositions. Sreekumar was named among the "Best 40 B-School Profs Under the Age of 40” in the Poets&Quants ranking of business school professors. Marcus Butts Associate Professor of Management and OrganizationsMarilyn and Leo Corrigan Endowed Research Professor Organizational behavior is where psychology and management meet. Learn this vital science from Marcus Butts. See Marcus Butts' full bio Admissions Candidates interested in pursuing the JD/MBA dual degree must submit applications to both the Cox School of Business and the Dedman School of Law. Students must be accepted to both programs. Because the admissions process for the Dedman School of Law has fewer deadlines than the Cox School of Business, and there are also fewer dates to take the LSAT exam each year, we recommend contacting the Law School Admissions Office for questions pertaining to the law school admissions process. We of course are happy to address any questions specific to our application process and timeline for review. For more information, please contact the Dedman School of Law Next Steps Questions? Not sure which program fits your needs? Reach out to our team. Contact Us Get the Brochure SMU Cox Footer Utility Nav Give Contact Us Apply © Cox School of Business Southern Methodist University PO Box 750333 Dallas, Texas 75275-0333 214-768-2000 SMU Cox Legal Home SMU Cox on Social Media Facebook Instagram Twitter