Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Department of Sociology About Us People Research Undergraduate Graduate Resources Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact Graduate Resources About the Program Contact the Advisor How to Apply MA Degree Requirements Graduate Student Handbook Graduate Assistantships Opportunities for Support Course Descriptions Graduate Catalog Forms and Links Graduate Student Profiles Student Placements Student Publications Forthcoming201420132012Prior 2012 Student Presentations Student Theses Student Awards Take Action Community Out of Chaos Online B.A. Contact Us Follow Us Online Facebook Home Sociology Graduate Admission Requirements Admission Requirements Admission Process To apply for admission to the graduate program in sociology, you must apply for admission to the Graduate School at the University of Memphis: Apply for Graduate Admissions. Please note the following is needed to complete your electronic application: A completed "Application for Graduate Admission/Assistantship in Sociology" form (click here to obtain the form). A one-to-two-page personal statement explaining the reasons why you want to pursue graduate work in sociology. Three letters of recommendation from persons qualified to comment on such things as your intellectual ability, communication skills, and work ethic. The submission of GRE scores is not required, but is encouraged. Application deadlines for domestic applicants are July 1 for the fall semester, December 1 for the spring semester, and May 1 for the summer semester. However, students should apply by March 21 to receive full consideration for a graduate assistantship. International applicants must apply by May 1 for the fall semester, September 15 for the spring semester, and February 1 for the summer semester. International students should click here for additional information about the admission process. Entrance Requirements International applicants must have a minimum Test of English as a Foreign Language (TOEFL) score of 550 (Computer-based total = 213) and have their transcript evaluated by World Education Services. Students must have satisfactorily completed undergraduate sociology courses in research methods, theory, and statistics, or demonstrate equivalency. Students who have not taken these courses may still be considered for entrance into the program with the understanding that, if admitted, they will take these courses at the undergraduate level before taking them at the graduate level. Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 9/8/21 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.