Skip to main content iastate.edu Index A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z Directory Maps Safety Sign Ons Iowa State University Division of Student Affairs Menu Toggle Search Cyclones Forever Cyclone Support Sexual Assault Contact Us Main navigation Home About Mission & Priorities Meet the VP Senior Leaders Organization Chart Reporting Units Campus Life Central Office Dean of Students Office Student Health and Wellness Directory Impact Assessment By The Numbers Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Outside the Classroom Reports Students Career Competencies Co-Curricular Learning Domains Scholarships Student Organization Funding Staff Resources Assessment Awards CARE Recognition Committees Communications Events Calendar Division Meetings Policies Professional Development Co-curricular learning domains At Iowa State University, we believe that learning is an activity that happens anywhere and everywhere on campus. Further, we believe that the activities associated with the college experience, especially those that help emerging adults gain the cognitive and social skills necessary to be successful outside of college, should be rooted in a common set of definitions and goals. In the Division of Student Affairs, we call these definitions and goals the Co-Curricular Learning Domains, or CCLDs. The five Co-Curricular Learning Domains, definitions, and related dimensions provide both a framework and a language for describing/defining the learning that occurs through the co-curricular programs and services offered in the Division of Student Affairs. The CCLDs also reflect the values espoused by the division and the current Iowa State University Strategic Plan. Download the CCLD one-pager, or the CCLD two-pager including definitions for the dimensions. Civic Engagement Supporting the process of students becoming responsible, engaged citizens who contribute to global and local communities. Dimensions: Civic Responsibility Social Responsibility Global Perspective Intrapersonal Development A reflective process through which students are able to develop, define, and integrate their personal identities, values, and beliefs into everyday actions, choices, and decisions. Dimensions: Self-Awareness & Understanding Ethics Purpose-Driven Accountability & Integrity Justice, Equity, and Inclusion Supporting students in their identity and awareness development processes, and challenging them to move toward broader understanding of complex environments. Future professionals need skills in awareness advocacy, social justice and equity concepts, inclusion programming, and collaboration. Dimensions: Awareness of Diversity & Appreciation for Diverse Experiences Cultural Competency Identifying and Addressing Inequity Leadership A relational and ethical process of people together attempting to accomplish positive change.* Dimensions: Empowering Ethical Group-Oriented Process-Oriented Purposeful * Komives S.R., Lucas N., & McMahon, T.R. (2013). Exploring leadership: For students who want to make a difference (3rd ed.). San Francisco: Jossey-Bass Wellness An active process through which people become aware of, and make choices toward a successful existence.** Emotional Environmental Financial Intellectual Occupational Physical Social Spiritual ** Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration. (n.d.). Creating a healthier life: A step-by-step guide to wellness. Retrieved from https://store.samhsa.gov/sites/default/files/d7/priv/sma16-4958.pdf Remote video URL CCLD Student Affairs Staff Resources Iowa State University Division of Student Affairs Office of the Senior Vice President and Provost Division of Operations and Finance Office of the President Contact 2350 Beardshear Hall 515 Morrill Road Ames, IA 50011 Summer Hours | May 16- August 12; Monday- Friday, 7:30 a.m.- 4 p.m. studentaffairs@iastate.edu 515-294-4420 phone Give Copyright © 1995- Iowa State University of Science and Technology All rights reserved. Non-discrimination Policy Privacy Policy Digital Access & Accessibility Consumer information Loading...