Skip to main content Toggle subitems Main navigation Meet Princeton Toggle sub-items In Service of Humanity Facts & Figures History Honors & Awards Contact Us Visit Us Our Faculty Our Students Our Alumni Our Staff Our Leadership Academic Freedom and Free Expression Academics Toggle sub-items Studying at Princeton Library Areas of Study Humanities Social Sciences Engineering Natural Sciences Advising Academic Calendar Course Tools Learning Abroad Career Development Continuing Education Innovative Learning Research Toggle sub-items Engineering & Applied Science Humanities Natural Sciences Social Sciences Interdisciplinary Approach Dean for Research Office External Partnerships Facilities & Labs One Community Toggle sub-items Lifelong Connections Student Life Arts & Culture Athletics Living in Princeton, N.J. Housing & Dining Activities & Organizations Cultural & Affinity Groups Health & Wellness Religious Life Serving the Public Good Families Admission & Aid Toggle sub-items Affordable for All About Financial Aid Current Undergraduate Financial Aid Undergraduate Admission Graduate Admission For International Students Utility menu News Events Work at Princeton Services & Resources Work-Life Balance Links for Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Giving Search Sites & People × Share on Facebook Share on Twitter Share on LinkedIn Email Print Dr. Fauci to Princeton seniors on Class Day: ‘It is our collective responsibility not to shrug our shoulders’ or to accept ‘the normalization of untruths’ Jamie Saxon, Office of Communications May 23, 2022, 5:39 p.m. Dr. Anthony Fauci addresses the Princeton Class of 2022 during the Class Day ceremony on Monday, May 23. Photo by Denise Applewhite, Office of Communications At Princeton’s Class Day ceremony Monday, May 23, Dr. Anthony Fauci pointed to the deep racial and ethnic inequities in healthcare that the COVID-19 pandemic has revealed and enjoined the graduating class to help solve them: “It will take a decades-long commitment for society to address these disparities,” he said. “I strongly urge you to be part of that commitment.” He further challenged the graduating seniors to uphold the truth and seek facts, to stay attentive and intentional. “It is our collective responsibility not to shrug our shoulders and sink to a tacit acceptance of the normalization of untruths,” he said. “Because if we do, lies become dominant and reality is distorted. And the truth means nothing, integrity means nothing, facts mean nothing.” Class Day co-chair Christian Potter does the “pandemic elbow bump” with Dr. Anthony Fauci, chosen by the graduating class to deliver the keynote address. Photo by Denise Applewhite, Office of Communications The steadfastly calm face of COVID-19 updates at White House press briefings throughout the pandemic, Fauci serves as President Joe Biden’s chief medical adviser and has been integral to the country’s response to the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic. He has advised seven presidents on domestic and global health issues. Fauci, who was chosen as the Class Day speaker by the graduating class, was appointed director of the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases (NIAID) in 1984. He is the recipient of numerous prestigious awards, including the Presidential Medal of Freedom, the National Medal of Science, the Mary Woodard Lasker Award for Public Service, and the Albany Medical Center Prize in Medicine and Biomedical Research. The 2022 class officers give Dr. Fauci a class jacket and plaque, making him an official honorary class member. Photo by Denise Applewhite, Office of Communications He categorized healthcare disparities as “failings of our society” and asked the graduating seniors to “find the strength, the wisdom, the ingenuity, and the empathy to address these entrenched elements of injustice, manifested in so many subtle and overt ways, and work with all our might to remedy the cultural disease of racism, just as we fight the viral disease of COVID-19.” Regarding “the normalization of untruths,” Fauci said he felt troubled “that differences of opinion or ideology have in certain situations been reflected by egregious distortions of reality. … Yet the outrage and dissent against this alarming trend has been muted and mild.” “Seek and listen to opinions that are different from your own,” he told his audience. “But apply your abilities to critically analyze and examine, which you have honed well here at Princeton, to discern and challenge weak assertions built on untruths. As future leaders in our society, we are truly counting on you for that.” The annual Class Day event is by tradition a more lighthearted ceremony than Commencement, organized by seniors to recognize the achievements of their class. This year was the first in-person Class Day in three years — and Fauci, a native of Brooklyn, also played to the buoyant mood of his audience, telling them in his unmistakable New York accent: “[D]o not shy away from dreaming impossible dreams and seizing unanticipated opportunities.” Fauci’s full remarks, as prepared, are available online. Seniors gathered with their friends before the ceremony. Members of the Class of 2022 will officially graduate during the University’s Commencement on Tuesday, May 24. Photo by Denise Applewhite, Office of Communications Before the program began, seniors and family members filled a sun-drenched Cannon Green behind Nassau Hall, snapping selfies and waving to friends and relatives. They were serenaded by recordings of songs performed by many of Princeton’s 15 a cappella groups. The lyrics “I see skies of blue and clouds of white” from one of the selections, Louis Armstrong’s “What a Wonderful World,” captured the sunny day perfectly. Fauci recalled the most significant pivot of his career, telling the seniors: “Expect the unexpected.” In 1981, having already settled into a “comfortable career” at the National Institutes of Health, he read a CDC report about a handful of cases of an unusual pneumonia among gay men in Los Angeles. One month later, the infection had spread across other major cities. Against the advice of his peers, he went on to pursue the causes of “this mysterious new disease,” and subsequently become the leading investigative physician in the fight against HIV/AIDS. That decision, he said, transformed his career and life. “Of course, listen to the advice of others who care about you, your mentors, but at the end of the day, go with your own gut,” he said. Seniors wear their new Class of 2022 jackets during Class Day. Photo by Nicole Guglielmo He encouraged them to make public service and social responsibility a part of their lives. “I sincerely believe that regardless of our career paths, we cannot look the other way from pressing societal issues,” he said. Leadership, he noted, is the key to healing a fractured nation. “Leadership can take many forms, including the quiet and subtle leadership of example,” he said. In keeping with the Class Day tradition of fêting the graduating class, he ended on a high note, reminding seniors to pursue joy and be the architects of their own future. “Find your source of joy and happiness and fully embrace it,” he said, quoting the American political theorist John H. Schaar: “The future is not some place we are going to, but one we are creating. The paths are not to be found, but made, and the activity of making them changes both the maker and the destination.” President Christopher L. Eisgruber congratulates the “great Class of 2022” during his Class Day remarks before bestowing the honorary keys to the University to the class officers, another Class Day tradition. Photo by Denise Applewhite, Office of Communications Preceding Fauci’s speech, Princeton President Christopher L. Eisgruber opened his remarks by noting that Class Day has been celebrated at least since before the Civil War. The giant screens flanking the stage displayed a vintage photo of the crowd at Class Day in 1886, also on Cannon Green, replete with men in shiny black top hats, women holding parasols and “86” painted on the cannon in the middle of the lawn. Every graduating class still paints the cannon to make their mark each year. Eisgruber then announced the handing over of the “metaphorical” keys to the University to the leaders of the senior class, another Class Day tradition. “As you can see from the picture up on the screen,” he said with a wide grin, indicating a comical photo of himself posing with a quartet of furry University “leaders” — the Princeton tiger, Forbes College bear, Mathey College moose and Whitman College whale — “we treat this metaphor very literally.” He closed with his own heartfelt congratulations. “[Y]our class has proven itself capable of great things by maintaining high levels of achievement during one of the most difficult periods that our University, our nation and our world have ever faced,” he said. The audience burst into applause. Class of 2022 president Santiago Guiran, of Garfield, New Jersey, embraced the humorous tenor of the day, playing off the number “22” from the class year. “Twenty-two cents is what is in my checking account after senior 'dead week' at Myrtle Beach,” he said. But he also lauded his classmates for their steadfast commitment to community and friendship, especially while physically separated during the semesters they were learning remotely. Class of 2022 president Santiago Guiran riffs on the number 22 and lauds his classmates for their commitment to community and friendship, especially while physically separated during the semesters they were learning remotely. Photo by Denise Applewhite, Office of Communications Guiran said it was the strength and comfort of his classmates that got him through “the hardest year of my life.” In Oct. 2020 of his junior year, Guiran had voiced his worry that COVID-19 would prevent him from visiting family in Colombia; two months later, he lost two grandparents there to COVID-19. “There are two empty seats in the crowd right now,” he said. He urged his classmates to remember that more than any material accomplishments or possessions, what endures are “your friends and family who choose you again and again.” Student speakers Maddie Winter, of Brooklyn, New York, and Owen Matthews, of Madison, New Jersey, reminisced about the Class of 2022’s time at Princeton with wit and whimsy. Calling out the true fuel that kept her and her classmates going as they navigated the very real challenges of the pandemic — WaWa hoagies and UStore snacks — Winter kept the humor volume on high with a quip about the required asymptomatic COVID-19 tests: “Conjuring up enough spit is one of the most pressing struggles of our time,” she joked, eliciting a roar of laughter from the audience. She noted they arrived as first-year students thinking they had all the answers, but the University gave them an unexpected gift. “Princeton bestowed us with the power to ask meaningful and impactful questions that can make a difference,” she said. Though they picked up a few answers along their journey, it’s the questions they learned to ask, Winter said, that came to define their experience here and the mindset that they will take with them. She admitted that while they may spend their whole lives “thinking it is socially acceptable, or perhaps even attractive, to wear fluorescent orange in public” — she challenged her classmates to use their voices collectively and individually as a way to stay connected and effect change. “Ask the influential questions,” she said. “The ones that push institutions to address inequities and better the lives of the vulnerable. The ones that make a difference in the world.” Seniors enjoy their classmates’ lighthearted stories and reminiscences during the 2022 Class Day ceremony on Cannon Green. The Class Day tradition dates back to as early as before the Civil War. Photo by Denise Applewhite, Office of Communications Matthews, who had wryly introduced Fauci by telling the audience “[he] will talk about his experiences serving as CDC director during the Spanish influenza of 1918,” began her remarks with her own nod to the pandemic. She counted off the perks of remote learning — “You get to wake up two minutes before meetings start, wear your pajamas to class and scroll through Tiger Confessions during lectures” — then deadpanned: “I do all those things when class is in person too, but figured it was worth mentioning that it was a change for some.” The crowd whooped and applauded. She said: “The greatest lesson I have learned at Princeton, and during COVID, is to be awed and inspired, not intimidated by my classmates — that it is the connections we make here that makes this place so special.” Lest they think her too sentimental, she concluded with a huge smile, “That’s why I’ve sent all of you a LinkedIn request.” Class Day also featured the presentation of awards to seniors for community service, athletics and leadership, as well as the naming of honorary class members. A webcast of the Class Day ceremony is available online. Graduation activities will continue with the University’s 275th Commencement, scheduled for 10 a.m. Tuesday, May 24. Commencement 2022 View All News Connect with #Princeton22 Instagram Facebook Twitter GIPHY YouTube LinkedIn 2022 Commencement website After Princeton graduation, ROTC students are commissioned as U.S. Army and Marine Corps officers University News: Read more ‘The value of persistence’: Princeton Class of 2022 celebrates Commencement University News: Read more 2022 Commencement Salutatio by Frances Mangina (Latin and English) University News: Read more 2022 Valedictory remarks by Natalia Orlovsky University News: Read more Class of 2022 Commencement Address by President Eisgruber — 'The Value of Persistence' University News: Read more Four faculty members recognized for outstanding teaching Award: Read more Princeton awards five honorary degrees Award: Read more Four outstanding N.J. secondary school teachers honored at Princeton Commencement Award: Read more At Hooding, a ritual celebration of extraordinary scholarly accomplishment University News: Read more Students honored for leadership and service at 2022 Class Day Award: Read more Princeton University Class of 2022 Class Day remarks by Dr. Anthony S. Fauci University News: Read more Baccalaurate speaker Wendy Kopp ’89: The path to happiness is to align our lives with our values University News: Read more 2022 Princeton Baccalaureate address by Wendy Kopp University News: Read more Reunited: Princeton alumni return to campus for the first in-person Reunions since the start of the pandemic University News: Read more Phi Beta Kappa chapter honors Alexander Davis, Casey Lew-Williams with teaching awards Award: Read more Watch: Princeton's Class of 2022 Commencement ceremony Tuesday, May 24 University News: Read more Alumni returning for Reunions 2022 this Thursday through Sunday Campus Life: Read more Graduate students honored for excellence in teaching Award: Read more Four faculty members honored for excellence in mentoring graduate students Award: Read more Commencement events for Class of 2022 and on-campus Commencement details for Class of 2020 University News: Read more Natalia Orlovsky named Princeton valedictorian, Frances Mangina selected as salutatorian Award: Read more Dr. Anthony Fauci will speak at Princeton’s 2022 Class Day University News: Read more Teach For All co-founder and CEO Wendy Kopp named Baccalaureate speaker University News: Read more Contact links Contact Us Accessibility Advanced People Search Media Inquiries Website Feedback Visiting links Plan a Visit Maps & Shuttles Varsity Athletics Giving to Princeton Academic links Library Academic Calendar Student Links Faculty & Staff Links Footer social media Facebook Twitter Instagram Snapchat LinkedIn YouTube Social Media Directory Equal Opportunity and Nondiscrimination at Princeton University: Princeton University believes that commitment to principles of fairness and respect for all is favorable to the free and open exchange of ideas, and the University seeks to reach out as widely as possible in order to attract the ablest individuals as students, faculty, and staff. In applying this policy, the University is committed to nondiscrimination on the basis of personal beliefs or characteristics such as political views, religion, national or ethnic origin, race, color, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity or expression, pregnancy, age, marital or domestic partnership status, veteran status, disability, genetic information and/or other characteristics protected by applicable law in any phase of its education or employment programs or activities. In addition, pursuant to Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 and supporting regulations, Princeton does not discriminate on the basis of sex in the education programs or activities that it operates; this extends to admission and employment. Inquiries about the application of Title IX and its supporting regulations may be directed to the Assistant Secretary for Civil Rights, Office for Civil Rights, U.S. Department of Education or to the University's Sexual Misconduct/Title IX Coordinator. See Princeton’s full Equal Opportunity Policy and Nondiscrimination Statement. Princeton University Princeton, NJ 08544 Operator: (609) 258-3000 © 2022 The Trustees of Princeton University Subfooter links Copyright Infringement Privacy Notice