Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. Office of the Bursar Bursar right arrow down arrow Tuition & Fees right arrow down arrow Tuition Guarantee Policy Graduate & Professional Students Non-Resident Surcharges Program Fees Special Course Fees Student Health Insurance How Fees Are Determined Prior Year Tuition & Fees right arrow down arrow Academic Year 2021-2022 right arrow down arrow Graduate & Professional Students Non-Resident Surcharges Program Fees Special Course Fees Student Health Insurance Academic Year 2020-2021 right arrow down arrow Graduate & Professional Students Non-Resident Surcharges Program Fees Special Course Fees Student Health Insurance Academic Year 2019-2020 right arrow down arrow Graduate & Professional Students Non-Resident Surcharges Program Fees Special Course Fees Student Health Insurance Paying your Bill right arrow down arrow Payment Options Tuition Payment Plan International Payments Scholarship Payments Billed Sponsored Aid Veterans Benefits Refunds right arrow down arrow Direct Deposit Enrollment Refund Frequently Asked Questions Tuition Refund Appeals right arrow down arrow Tuition Refund Appeals Process Frequently Asked Questions Tuition Insurance Past Due Accounts right arrow down arrow Collections Payment Plans Collections Timeline Loans right arrow down arrow Short Term Loan Loan Repayment Student Loan FAQ's Tax Forms & Disclosures right arrow down arrow Form 1098-T right arrow down arrow Detailed Explantion of the 1098-T Form 1098-T FAQs Form 1042-S Banking Contract Disclosure Contact Us right arrow down arrow The Team Bursar Contact Form Home » About UC » Office of the Bursar » Paying your Bill Set Navigation title in component Payment Options Tuition Payment Plan International Payments Scholarship Payments Billed Sponsored Aid Veterans Benefits Paying your Bill Each academic year students are required to acknowledge and accept their responsibility to pay for all enrolled classes and other charges that post to their bill. This will show as a hold on the student account, titled "Financial Agreement" (formerly known as "Bursar Pre-Registration Agreement"), and must be completed before the system will allow registration. This must be completed by all students, regardless of how your bill is being paid. The "Financial Agreement" is a two-part agreement and can be completed by following the below instructions: Log in to Catalyst with your username and password. Select the “Tasks” tile. Select “To Do list” and then select “Financial Agreement”. Read the agreement that states you agree to pay all charges and check the box “I understand and agree” if you agree with the terms. If you would like to save a copy, click printable page to print a copy before saving. Then select “Save” and “Next”. The next agreement authorizes the university to contact you by email, phone, or text. Click “I understand and agree” if you agree with the terms. Be sure to print a copy for your records before saving the page. Select “Save”, then "Next", then “Finish”. Please note, the agreement is not complete until you select “Finish”. Lastly, select the “Exit” button. The “Financial Agreement” hold should then be removed from the tasks tile. Viewing Your Bill Bills are due 5 days before the class begins. There are no adjustments for weekends or holidays. Charges posted after this date are due 7 days from when the charge posted. Due dates can be found in Catalyst on the term bill or the "Charges Due" screen. Students should routinely check their online bill in Catalyst to ensure their financial obligations are met in a timely manner. Term bills are generally available in Catalyst after registration or on the 1st of the month before classes begin. Please know that the student bill is a dynamic bill representing charges and credits, including aid and loans, for a term as of the time it is viewed on-line and will typically update overnight when changes are made. Room and board charges will post to your bill approximately 7 weeks prior to the start of a term. Additional details about room and board charges can be found on the housing website. Please direct questions about room and board to Housing & Food Services via email at UCHousing@uc.edu. How To View Your Term Bill: It is highly recommended to view the student term bill which includes an itemized list of charges before making a payment. Students can access their term bill by logging in to Catalyst, clicking the "My Finances" tile, and then "View Term Bill" found in the Account Summary box. Click the term, and then click "continue" which will pull up the term bill for that semester. Parents and other delegated access users can view the term bill by logging in to Catalyst, clicking the "Delegated Access" tile, then clicking "Financial", and then clicking "View Bill", and then selecting the term. Lastly, click "continue". Please note, the bill opens up in a new window and might be blocked as a pop-up in the top right corner. You will want to allow pop-ups for Catalyst. Office of the Bursar University of Cincinnati 2618 McMicken Circle 500 University Pavilion Cincinnati, OH 45221 UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati Office of the Bursar University of Cincinnati 2618 McMicken Circle 500 University Pavilion Cincinnati, OH 45221 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top