Skip to main content Temple University Explore Temple’s Schools and Colleges Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Support Temple Temple University Search Site Search Full Menu Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees President History & Traditions Temple Health News & Media Offices Public Information Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Development Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Libraries Exercise and Sport Science Major You are here Home Academics Degrees and Programs Exercise and Sport Science Major Apply Request More Info Exercise and Sport Science Major Accreditation Admissions Departmental Research Fieldwork & Internships Required Courses Scholarships & Financial Aid Bachelor of Science in Exercise and Sport Science The Bachelor of Science in Exercise and Sport Science at Temple’s College of Public Health focuses on the science and practice of health fitness and sports performance, and prepares students for a range of professional certifications and physical fitness careers. Students in this degree program conduct assessments of physical fitness, explore the science of human movement, and train to use metrics in developing exercise programs that help clients build physical fitness safely and efficiently. The field of exercise and sport science focuses on physical fitness and training related to two areas of focus: health (involving populations that are either healthy or have pre-existing medical conditions) and performance (involving populations whose primary goals are athletic, competitive or related to sports performance). Depending on their interests and career goals, students in this program build skills related to one of these two professional areas. Students in the program are trained to conduct lab- and field-based tests that assess agility, body composition, cardiorespiratory endurance, muscular strength, reaction time and other components of physical fitness. You will learn to interpret these metrics and use additional research-based evidence to develop effective exercise training programs for clients. Our students pursue a wide range of career paths in university, corporate, commercial, community and clinical settings, and our graduates are eligible to take several different professional examinations, including the American College of Sports Medicine certification, for those who want to become exercise physiologists, group exercise instructors or personal trainers. the National Strength and Conditioning Association (NSCA) certification, for those who want to become personal trainers or strength and conditioning specialists. Graduates can also apply to professional clinical programs to become occupational therapists, physical therapists or physician assistants, among other careers. What sets apart our Exercise and Sport Science BS? A high-quality curriculum: Our program aligns with the educational standards and goals of the NSCA and the Committee on Accreditation for the Exercise Sciences (CoAES). We are an NSCA Education Recognition Program Undergraduate Strength and Conditioning Program, and are actively applying to become a CoAES-accredited program. This program also benefits from being a part of Temple University, a Carnegie R1-designated university. Local and national internship opportunities: Thanks to its dynamic urban location in Philadelphia, this program opens doors for internships at universities and high schools across the region, including at Division I, II and III schools. Your professors will help you locate and take advantage of competitive internship opportunities. Bringing together academics and athletics: Students can apply classroom learning through hands-on experience with Temple’s athletic programs, including the university’s football and Olympic sports teams. Students might assist with the implementation of team exercise programs and use performance metrics to help optimize exercise programs. Program Format Exercise and Sport Science students complete 120 credits, including 85 credits related to the major. Science course topics include biology, chemistry and physics, as well as anatomy and physiology, biomechanics and other subfields of kinesiology. See a full list of program courses. Our Academic Advisors The College of Public Health offers extensive, personalized advising services to students in each department. Our advising staff will work with you to set goals and help you reach your academic potential. Meet our academic advisors. Related Graduate Degrees MS in Athletic Training MS in Kinesiology, Concentration in Integrative Exercise Physiology Master of Occupational Therapy Doctor of Physical Therapy Doctor of Athletic Training Doctor of Occupational Therapy PhD in Kinesiology, Concentration in Athletic Training PhD in Kinesiology, Concentration in Integrative Exercise Physiology Student Organizations You can engage with peers and find leadership opportunities in student-led clubs and organizations in the College of Public Health. Learn more about student clubs and organizations. Study Away Become an informed, active global citizen and enrich your education by studying away. Explore Temple’s study abroad opportunities, including information about specific programs and visas, as well as resources on cultural adaptation, diversity matters, and health and safety. Learn more about studying away. Tuition & Fees In keeping with Temple’s commitment to access and affordability, the Bachelor of Science offers a competitive level of tuition with multiple opportunities for financial support. Tuition rates are set annually by the university and are affected by multiple factors, including program degree level (undergraduate or graduate), course load (full- or part-time), in-state or out-of-state residency, and more. Learn more about our tuition and fees. These tuition costs apply to the 2021–2022 academic year. Pennsylvania resident: $20,184.00 per year Out-of-state: $35,016.00 per year HP-EXSS-BS Additional Program Information Visit College Site View Program Details Go back to AcademicsMore in Exercise and Sport Science Major Accreditation Admissions Departmental Research Fieldwork & Internships Required Courses Scholarships & Financial Aid Apply Request More Info Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Calendar Policies Social Media TUportal TUmail Accessibility Careers at Temple Safety & Emergency Information Ethics & Compliance Privacy Statement Professional Licensure Disclosures Follow Temple University Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community. Apply Request More Info