Skip to site alert. Skip to content Irving Institute for Clinical and Translational Research Newsletter News Events Videos People Search About Us About Us Resources and Cores Message from the Director History Initiatives and Committees News Events Videos Contact Cite the Grant Subscribe to our Mailing List Initiatives and Committees Implementation Science COVID-19 Research Initiative Diversity, Equity and Inclusion (DEI) Committee Opioid Crisis Response Learning Health System Initiative Services and Programs Our Impact Our Impact A Model for Collaboration Testimonials Publications People Impact Stories Narratives of Discovery People Irving Scholars Mentor of the Year Award Pilot Awardees Scholars, Trainees, and Fellows Join a Study Join a Study What is Health Research? Research Registries and Studies Community Health Resources You are here Home > Join a Study > Community Health Resources What is Health Research? Research Registries and Studies Community Health Resources Community Health Resources The Irving Institute provides the following community health resources to upper Manhattan community based organizations and community members: Columbia Community Partnership for Health The Columbia Community Partnership for Health (CCPH), is a unique and inviting, multipurpose space for conducting health research, health promotion activities, and research education and dissemination. In addition, CCPH connects residents to health and social services, organizes health lectures, operates a bilingual health library, and facilitates access to health research. In addition, CCPH connects residents to health and social services, organizes health lectures, operates a bilingual health library, and facilitates access to health research. CCPH is wheelchair accessible and staffed by Spanish speaking personnel. Visit the CCPH webpage to learn more. Get Healthy Heights Website GetHealthyHeights is an online platform for all who live and work in upper Manhattan to connect, collaborate, and participate in their health and the health of the community. Columbia University schools and departments, community programs, nonprofit organizations, and New York City public organizations serving Washington Heights and Inwood are invited to join GetHealthyHeights as partner organizations to connect with the Washington Heights/Inwood community. Partner organizations have their own profile page to promote their activities, share content, and create social networks. Northern Manhattan residents can find local information about getting and staying healthy. get_healthy_heights_training_video_welcome Columbia University Irving Medical Center NewYork-Presbyterian ColumbiaDoctors About Us Services and Programs Our Impact Join a Study Contact Columbia University 630 West 168th Street New York, NY 10032 United States Follow Us YouTube LinkedIn Twitter Facebook Back to top