We use cookies to make your website experience better. To learn about how we keep your information safe, view our Privacy Policy. Accept Safer Return to Campus Masks Strongly Recommended. Notification of Potential Workplace Exposure. Skip To Main Content Popular Searches × 1 2 3 4 Welcome, New Broncos! Connect with the Office of New Student Programs and Family Engagement for info on Orientation. Visit the Website Track & Field: 2022 CCAA Champions! Broncos win first CCAA title since 1998. Learn More YOU at CPP: Take Care of Your Health YOU at CPP is our free and confidential platform to connect you with resources for your mental and physical health Get Started myBAR - CPP's Engagement Portal! See upcoming student events and learn about clubs and orgs to get involved with. Visit myBAR Previous Next Division of Student Affairs Home About the Division Committees Contact Us Give to Student Affairs Leadership Purpose, Vision, & Priorities For Students Meet Student Affairs Leaders Campus Safety Career Readiness and Student Jobs Diversity and Inclusion Health and Wellbeing Programs & Support Services Student Life and Involvement University Policies For Student Affairs Staff Budget Business Process & Technology Conversations with Christina Data, Assessment, & Evaluation HR Requests Marketing & Communications Newly Hired Staff Professional Development Request VP Gonzales Student Affairs Awards Faculty/Staff Referral Guide Division of Student Affairs We're Here For You! The Division of Student Affairs serves the Cal Poly Pomona community by providing intentional, student-centered programs and support services -- creating opportunities that facilitate student development and enhance your sense of belonging at CPP. Click Topics Below for More Info Health and Wellbeing The Health and Wellbeing cluster supports the Student Health Center, counseling, survivor advocacy services, disability accomodations and outreach, emergency grants, support for students facing food/housing insecurty, health education and much more. Dean of Students Office The central space for students, parents, staff and faculty to receive assistance with navigating the complexity of campus life. The office supports promotes self-authorship and facilitates a safe, vibrant, healthy, inclusive and resilient community. When in doubt, start here! Student Life and Involvement Get involved with one of the more than 300 clubs and organizations on campus, run for ASI Student Government, join a fraternity or sorority, be part of an intramural sports league, discover your inner leader, support a cause or movement and more. There's always a way to get involved at CPP! Diversity and Inclusion The Division supports diversity and inclusion efforts at Cal Poly Pomona by working alongside the Office of Inclusive Excellence and through key programs under the Office of Student Life and Cultural Centers. Programs and Support Services The Division promotes student success through various support programs, including the Educational Opportunity Program (EOP), Summer and Transfer Bridge, Renaissance Scholars (foster youth), the Poly Pantry food pantry, Veterans Resource Center (VRC) and more. Student Employment Learn about flexible, on-campus student job opportunities, or connect with the Clothes Closet for free professional clothing. Campus Safety Learn more about the University Police Department (UPD), and the Police Advisory Safety Committee. University Policies and Procedures The Office of Student Conduct & Integrity is responsible for administering CSU standards for student conduct, and provides educational support through various resources on what academic dishonesty means, tips on how to avoid plagiarism and other helpful videos. NOTICE OF NON-DISCRIMINATION ON THE BASIS OF SEX - EOC Stay Connected Instagram Follow @cpp_dsa Twitter Follow @cpp_dsa YouTube Follow Student Affairs Email Email Us News and Communications News and Communications Director of Disability Resource Center Hired Director of Male Success Initatives Hired New Rose Float Lab Celebrates Grand Opening View News Archive Select 'CC' for captions on YouTube videos Student Leaders at CPP Series 8 Things We Wish We Knew Before Starting College Use a Syllabus the Right Way Video Messages Conversations with Christina Follow SA Departments on Social 3801 West Temple Avenue, Pomona, CA 91768 ©2021 California State Polytechnic University, Pomona All Rights Reserved About Cal Poly Pomona Feedback Privacy Accessibility Document Readers