Skip to main content Utility Links University of Pennsylvania Office of the Provost Secondary Nav Penn OLI Contact Us Group Created with Sketch. Group Created with Sketch. search Group Created with Sketch. full menu Primary Nav Penn OLI Courses & Programs For Faculty & Online Teams For Penn Students About Drawer Menu Penn OLI Courses & Programs Explore Back to main menu Search Offerings Learner Questions For Faculty & Online Teams Explore Back to main menu How to Create Vital Online Communities Faculty & Online Teams Questions Contact Us For Penn Students About Explore Back to main menu OLI Team Faculty Advisory Committee Explore Back to main menu Working Groups OLI News FAQs Contact Us Search Group Created with Sketch. Learn more about Penn's Online Learning Initiative Basic Page Sidebar Menu Penn OLI Courses & Programs Explore Back to main menu Search Offerings Learner Questions For Faculty & Online Teams Explore Back to main menu How to Create Vital Online Communities Faculty & Online Teams Questions Contact Us For Penn Students About Explore Back to main menu OLI Team Faculty Advisory Committee Explore Back to main menu Working Groups OLI News FAQs Contact Us John J. Boyle, a famed Philadelphia sculptor created this large bronze sculpture of Franklin in 1899. Photo by Scott Spitzer. Advancing excellence in online learning across Penn by fostering collaboration, cultivating innovative and relevant programs, and connecting learners with engaging opportunities that transcend geographic borders. Penn’s Online Learning Initiative (OLI) cultivates the integration of online programs across campus, supporting Penn’s schools in the creation of online degree and non-degree programs. In 2012, Penn launched its first Massive Open Online Courses (MOOCs) and created an office dedicated to online learning. Initially called the Open Learning Initiative and later the Online Learning Initiative, OLI’s preliminary focus was producing MOOCs with Penn faculty and advising Penn leadership on online initiatives. Penn's 12 schools offer over 150 MOOCs taught by over 150 faculty member that reach more than 4 million learners from almost every country in the world. Today, OLI’s mission is much broader and the initiative serves as a nexus for information about online learning across Penn. The University currently offers a range of online educational opportunities including certificates, continuing education, microcredentials, and degrees. FAQs OLI News Give Privacy Policy Report Accessibility Issues and Get Help Van Pelt-Dietrich Library 3420 Walnut St Philadelphia, PA 19104 215-898-1598 Penn WebLogin ©2022 University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, PA 19104 Footer Menu Contact Us Accessibility Office of the Provost