Skip to main content Menu Audiences Clemson Home Faculty/Staff Contact Us Resources A-Z Index Calendar Campus Maps CU Safety Phonebook Web Cams Apply Now Make a Gift Explore Admissions Academics Students Financial/Tuition Graduate Students Leaders of Tomorrow Now that you’re a Clemson graduate student, you’ve earned access to an array of University and Grad School resources and services. Whether you’re newly accepted, prepping for graduation, or anywhere in between, the Graduate School invites you to use the STUDENTS section of our website as a convenient portal for information. Resources: Get Travel Grant Information Professional Development Through the GRAD 360° program, the Clemson University Graduate School (in conjunction with other institutional entities) provides comprehensive resources dedicated to educating and developing the necessary skills for future professionals and leaders in the global economy. GRAD 360° will provide trainees with a structured way to develop and track their proficiency in the academic, personal, and professional focus areas known as “The Tiger 9.” Each trainee’s development program can be tailored to meet their unique needs and interests. Trainees can: Identify their interests, skills, and values throughout their Clemson experience; Engage their advisors in holistic advising and mentoring; Acquire and develop specific skills necessary for postgraduate professional practice; and Track their transformation by recording their experience in an online portfolio. Graduate Programs Check out our list of over 130 graduate degree programs to find the one that matches your academic goals. Clemson’s Graduate School offers an array of doctoral, master’s, specialist’s, and certificate programs across a wide array of disciplines. Our list of online program offerings continues to grow. Graduate Student Government The Clemson University Graduate Student Government (CGSG) is the official representative body of our Graduate Students. The goals of CGSG are to increase student involvement, enhance educational opportunities for all graduate students thorough collaboration and professional development, and to provide opportunities for graduate students to succeed both academically and professionally. GSG invites you to participate, represent, communicate via its executive and legislative branches and various committees on the main campus, or in the Greenville Council. Military & Veteran Engagement Clemson University’s Department of Military & Veteran Engagement was created in 2018 with a mission to serve and support the 350+ student veterans and 500+ military dependents attending Clemson University. With that mission in mind, M&VE employs four strategies for success: Engagement, Enrichment, Empowerment & Education. Visit the M&VE website to learn about the Clemson Student Veteran Center, discover what VA Educational Benefits are available and how they work, and much more. Electronic ThesEs & DissertationS (ETD) Access our Theses & Dissertations webpages and download the templates, links & tools you’ll need to navigate the manuscript process. Required Orientations If you are a new degree-seeking graduate student, you’re required to attend New Graduate Student Orientation. In addition, you will need to complete the online Graduate Onboarding Program once you receive your CU login (username and password). General orientation information will be posted on our Graduate Orientation web page, as well as on the Office of Student Affairs’ Student Transitions and Family Programs page. Tuition & Fees While you can’t put a price on knowledge, it is good to know the costs associated with your program. Register for Classes Use the iROAR portal to register for classes and so much more! Newly Accepted Students Policies and Procedures Forms and Applications Registering for Courses Plan of Study GS2 Theses & Dissertations Professional Development Student Assistance Program Graduate Student Government 3-Minute Thesis Resources LGBTQ Resources Defense Calendar Graduation Graduation Deadlines GradTeaching Grad Student/Postdoc Advisory Committee Frequently Asked Questions Doctoral Hooding Ceremony Follow us on Twitter Back to Top Copyright © 2019 Clemson University Graduate School | E-106 Martin Hall, Clemson University, Clemson SC 29634 Contact Us | Web Accessibility