Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Edward J. Meeman Biological Station (MBS) Geography Research Education Databases Mission Events Species Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact BioBlitz organizer, and TN Geographic Alliance consultant, Jonathan Carpenter Assisting citizen scientists photograph and identify organisms for the BioBlitz. PreviousNext Take Action Schedule the Facilities Directions to Meeman Biological Station Department of Biological Sciences Contact Us Home Meeman Welcome to the Meeman Biological Station Edward J. Meeman Award for Environmental Reporting Watch Video The Edward J. Meeman Biological Station consists of two sites: The Meeman site (623 acres; 252 ha) is located about 25 miles north of Memphis and 2 miles east of the Mississippi River on a Chickasaw Bluff. This site is in the narrow transition zone between the Mississippi River Valley and West Tennessee Coastal Plain physiographic regions. The Station and surrounding areas are characterized by low plains and fertile valleys which are drained by the Mississippi River and several tributaries. The Station has a modest conference/administrative center, large laboratory building with classrooms, research and teaching labs, dormitory room, and a kitchen. The Brunswick site (367 acres; 149 ha) is located adjacent to the Loosahatchie River about 20 miles east of the Meeman Site. This is a bottomland site with sluggish streams, cypress swamps, and numerous old fields surrounded by private lands. The Station is available to graduate students and qualified investigators throughout the year. Faculty from The University of Memphis and several other institutions in the Mid-South utilize the facility for research purposes. Ongoing research programs include river and wetland ecology, wildlife ecology, plant community ecology, population ecology, evolutionary ecology, ecological genetics, and others. Courses in ecology, botany, field techniques, and related disciplines are offered during the summer. Edward J. Meeman Biological Station Conceptual Master Plan A Conceptual Master Plan has been developed for the Edward J. Meeman Biological Station. The plan envisions renovation to the field research laboratory, the Conference Center and summer cottage, and establishment of centrally-located administrative offices. Other upgrades include signage for trails and property boundaries, a boardwalk through wetlands on the Brunswick property, and securing the properties with electronic gates and cameras. Proposed new buildings include a modern research laboratory, a multipurpose meeting/classroom building, and two dormitories to house ~100 students. Two additional buildings will provide space for research equipment (including boats and canoes) and permanent cover for maintenance equipment. A Mississippi River Center and Museum Complex, space for a hiking/biking/canoeing outfitter, and an above-the-canopy observation tower will complete the transformation. This ~$15M plan represents a guiding document to develop Meeman Biological Station into the world class campus that Mr. Meeman could only have imagined 50 years ago when he donated his property for use as a natural area for biological research and education. Read the Full Master Plan. Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 9/17/19 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.