Skip to main content Skip to primary site menu Google Tag Manager Search form Search Explore Brown University Search Global Navigation Learn More About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life Find A to Z Index People Directory Information for Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Top Destinations Global Brown Watson Institute Graduate School Alpert Medical School School of Public Health School of Engineering Undocumented, First-Generation College, and Low-Income Student Center Home About Programs and Services FLi Scholars Program Undocumented Student Program Prospective Students Financial Matters Internships and Other Opportunities DACA Q/A Class Dissonance Series Undocu-Series U-FLi Graduate Student Initiative Get Involved Site Navigation Home About People Our Team Community History News & Updates Digital Archive Programs and Services FLi Scholars Program Undocumented Student Program Prospective Students Financial Matters Internships and Other Opportunities DACA Q/A Class Dissonance Series Undocu-Series U-FLi Graduate Student Initiative Get Involved Alumni and Giving Opportunities Sign-up for our Newsletter DACA Q/A Responding to DACA Repeal On September 5, 2017, the Trump Administration announced that it would rescind the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) program, and outlined steps it would take through March 5, 2018 to phase it out. The announcement included the following important information: Current DACA and related employment authorization will remain valid until their expiration date. No new, first-time DACA applications will be accepted for processing if submitted after September 5, 2017. Pending applications will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. Applications for renewal of DACA issuances and work permits with expiration dates between September 5, 2017 and March 5, 2018 are being accepted, and must be submitted by October 5, 2017. (NOTE: DACA issuances and work permits that expire after March 5, 2018, will lapse on the expiration date. They will not accept applications for renewal for those with expiration dates after March 5, 2018.) Effective September 5, 2017, the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) will no longer grant DACA recipients permission to travel abroad through “Advance Parole.” Any pending applications for advance parole will not be processed and DHS will refund any associated fees. This action to rescind the DACA program has been challenged in the courts and was considered by the US Supreme Court in June. A decision was made on June 18th 2020 stating that the Trump administration’s termination of DACA was (1) judicially reviewable and (2) done in an arbitrary and capricious way that violated federal law. Students, please contact the U-FLi Center staff if you have any questions or would like to discuss the implications of the recent decision. Actions Taken at Brown At the time of the Trump administration’s action, President Christina Paxson, Provost Richard Locke and Vice President for Campus Life and Student Services Eric Estes issued a statement condemning this action. The University has taken a number of steps to advocate for legislation that would reinstate the protections offered by the DACA program and ensure the fair and just treatment of the thousands of individuals affected by this policy change, and the opportunity for the nation to benefit fully through their full, legal engagement. Brown University has recommitted support for undocumented and DACA enrolled students. This includes adhering to the policy adopted by the University in September 2016, to consider undocumented and DACA enrolled students as domestic students, and ensuring first-time, first-year undergraduate applicants who hold undocumented or DACA status and graduate from a U.S. high school are considered under the University’s need-blind admission policy, and meeting 100 percent of the demonstrated financial need of those who matriculate. Brown has also enhanced support provided through the Undocumented, First-Generation College and Low-Income Student Center (U-FLi Center) to ensure that these promising and talented students are able to thrive and contribute fully to the University community. What follows are responses to some anticipated questions regarding Brown’s response to the proposed program elimination. 1. What does the decision to rescind the DACA program mean for students at Brown now? The most important thing for students at Brown to know is that the University is committed to supporting them legally, financially, personally and academically, recognizing that every individual’s situation is distinct and different. First and foremost, students should register any particular concerns with Julio Reyes, U-FLi Center program director, who can engage the appropriate individuals throughout the University to address specific issues. Below is a list of resources that the University is providing immediately: DACA Renewal: Right now, the University recommends that students who are eligible to renew their DACA authorization should apply for renewal as soon as possible. The University will cover the costs of the application fee and related attorney consultation. Please contact U-FLi Center Program Director Julio Reyes for more information ([email protected]). Legal Support: The University will support students’ accessing legal consultation, and believe that students should exercise agency in choosing an attorney that they trust. To access funding to support an initial consultation with an outside attorney, please contact Assistant Dean of the College for Financial Advising Vernicia L. Elie ([email protected]). For a list of outside attorneys who practice immigration law, please contact U-FLi Center Program Director Julio Reyes. Health and Wellness: We recognize that this is a highly stressful period for students affected by these changes and the uncertainty they present. Brown has enhanced Counseling and Psychological Services (CAPS) resources, including increasing the diversity of the health professionals to ensure a depth of relevant experience. To access general mental health and wellness support, please contact CAPS at 863-3476 for urgent needs or email [email protected] to schedule an appointment. Undocumented and DACA students seeking a specific point person in CAPS should contact U-FLi Center Program Director Julio Reyes. Financial Aid: The University is committed to meeting the full demonstrated financial need of undergraduate students and will work directly with students should their circumstances change if they lose their DACA and work authorization. Undergraduate students should contact Associate Director of Financial Aid Jen Bianco to determine what changes could occur to their financial aid award. 2. What will this decision mean for students if the DACA program is fully phased out? The University’s priority is to ensure that students who were brought to Brown because of their exceptional talents are able to thrive academically and contribute fully as members of the community. The University will provide the requisite financial, legal, educational and health and wellness support to facilitate continued academic success. This may include housing and other support should students decide not to travel during extended campus closings, such as winter break. 3. What fellowships and co-curricular opportunities are available to undocumented students who do not have an active work permit? The College office offers a number of fellowships, research and career path opportunities that are available to all undergraduate students, regardless of citizenship status. Specifically: Karen T. Romer Undergraduate Teaching and Research Awards (UTRAs) support Brown students collaborating with Brown faculty on research and teaching projects during the summer or the academic year. All Brown undergraduate students are eligible to apply for UTRAs regardless of citizenship status. Undocumented and DACA enrolled students should contact Associate Dean of the College for Undergraduate Research and Inclusive Science [email protected] to discuss individual circumstances. CareerLAB offers LINK and Signature Award programs through BrownConnect, which are available to all students regardless of citizenship status. The office usually funds nearly 300 of these opportunities each summer. Other opportunities through BrownConnect include Bruno internships (provided by Brown alumni and parents). Undocumented and DACA enrolled students should contact Career Advisor [email protected] for additional information. The Swearer Center for Public Service offers multiple internship and fellowship opportunities that are available to all students, regardless of citizenship status. Undocumented and DACA enrolled students status should contact Swearer Center Assistant Director, [email protected] for additional information and to discuss individual interests and circumstances. Fellowships: Private foundations will vary in terms of eligibility related to citizenship; undocumented or DACA students could be eligible for certain nationally competitive awards such as the Schwarzman and the Projects for Peace. Foundations may consider applicants on a case by case basis as every individual situation is different. Undocumented and DACA enrolled students should contact Associate Dean of the College for Fellowships [email protected] to explore possible options. The Mellon Mays Undergraduate Fellowship (MMUF), funded by the Andrew W. Mellon Foundation, supports and prepares eligible undergraduate students to engage in undergraduate research and for doctoral studies in the humanities. The central goal of the MMUF is to increase the number of individuals from historically underrepresented racial and ethnic groups with a demonstrated commitment to eradicating racial disparities in U.S. higher education. Sophomores who identify as African American, Latinx, and Native American and are U.S. citizens, permanent residents, DACA, or undocumented students are eligible to apply. Undocumented and DACA enrolled students should contact Associate Dean of the College and MMUF Director Asabe Poloma ([email protected]) with any questions. For more information, visit the Brown MMUF website. New Short-Term Opportunities: The College, in partnership with CareerLAB, Sheridan Center, and Swearer Center, will offer SPRINT (Short-term Projects for Research, Internships, and Teaching) opportunities this summer. All students are eligible to apply for these opportunities, regardless of citizenship status. Through SPRINT, students can engage in short-termed mentored internships, undergraduate research, community-engaged learning and curriculum development projects. Undocumented and DACA enrolled students should contact BrownConnect team at [email protected] for additional information and to discuss any individual interests and circumstances. 4. What is the University’s policy regarding law enforcement and immigration status? Brown’s Department of Public Safety neither inquiries about nor acts upon information related to immigration status, and does not partner with federal or state agencies to do so. For more information, please contact Quiana Young Manager & Advocate, Community Relations and Outreach Bureau, or Lt. John A. Carvalho at Brown’s Department of Public Safety. 5. What should a do if they are approached on or off campus by immigration officials? If immigration authorities are on campus, or if you are detained off campus at any time as a result of immigration status, please contact the Department of Public Safety (DPS) immediately at 863-3322. DPS will contact relevant University officials. 6. What should a Brown employee do if they are approached by law enforcement for information about a member of the Brown community? If a Brown employee is approached by federal, state or local law enforcement seeking information about a member of the Brown community, the Brown employee should contact DPS at 863-3322 and the Office of General Counsel's Deputy Counsel James Green at 863-3122. 7. Who should a staff member or faculty member enrolled in DACA contact at Brown for information and support? Staff and faculty affected by this change should contact Chief of Staff to the Provost Marisa Quinn at (401) 863-6040. 8. What current federal legislation is pending related to immigration reform? The primary pieces of legislation that address immigration reform, and specifically DACA eligible individuals, are the House and Senate versions of the Dream Act. Please visit this document for a side-by-side comparison of these bills. President Paxson and Brown University have taken a number of steps to emphasize the importance of the Dream Act and the principles they represent by joining with other colleges and universities, federal associations, and by weighing in directly with members of Congress and President Trump. There are many ways for students to advocate, too, including contacting members of Congress to act swiftly to pass legislation to address the needs of the 800,000 individuals who have been affected by this recent action. Please see this page to identify the members of Congress who represent you based on the zip code of your residence. It is important to weigh in with your interests and concerns, and that you encourage friends and family to do the same. 9. Who are the primary point persons on campus prepared to serve as resources to DACA and undocumented students? The primary point of contact for undocumented and DACA enrolled students is the professional staff of the U-FLi Center (Program Director Julio Reyes or Program Coordinator Renata Mauriz), who are knowledgeable about the full range of issues that confront these students and can access relevant resources across the University to support a full range of needs. In addition, under the leadership of Provost Richard Locke, key student services across campus have been collaborating to expand support for students and the effectiveness of offices in serving members of this campus community. Below is a listing of individuals who are particularly knowledgeable about immigrant and undocumented student concerns. These individuals are closely connected through a network of support and are careful to maintain student privacy in discussing sensitive issues. OFFICE / TOPICS LIAISON Office of the Dean of the College / undergraduate academic advising Maitrayee Bhattacharyya, Senior Associate Dean of the College for Diversity and Inclusion Graduate School / doctoral and masters students’ issues and concerns related to their academic experience Marlina Duncan / Associate Dean for Diversity and Inclusion Warren Alpert Medical School / medical student issues and concerns related to their academic experience Joseph Diaz / Associate Dean for Diversity and Multicultural Affairs School of Public Health Caroline Kuo, Associate Dean of Diversity and Inclusion Jai-Me Potter-Rutledge, Program Manager for Diversity and Inclusion Initiatives Student Support Services / personal and life concerns for all students Andrés Fernández, Assistant Dean of Student Support Services Office of the Chaplains and Religious Life / confidential personal and multifaith spiritual support for students and their families The Rev Janet Cooper Nelson, University Chaplain CareerLAB Amy Tarbox, Associate Director of Career Counseling (Campus Partnerships) Swearer Center for Public Service/ Summer opportunities Sage Morgan-Hubbard, Assistant Director of Student Development Undocumented Student Program Prospective Students Financial Matters Internships and Other Opportunities DACA Q/A Undocumented, First-Generation College, and Low-Income Student Center Undocumented, First-Generation College, and Low-Income Student Center Brown University Box 1998 5th Floor, Sciences Library 201 Thayer Street Providence, RI 02912 Email [email protected] Facebook Facebook Instagram Instagram Brown University Giving to Brown Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA 401-863-1000 Contact Us Maps Directions Career Opportunities Campus Safety Accessibility All Social Media © 2022 Brown University | Back to top