Texas Tech University Directory Raiderlink A-Z Index University Student Housing Menu Search TTU Housing University Student Housing Scholarships University Student Housing believes in supporting students to financially afford the costs of college and living on campus. We also support our student staff members with scholarships to enhance their ability to work and learn at Texas Tech University. We have 10 unique scholarships and offer over $500,000 in scholarships each year. Available Scholarships Mary W. Doak Scholarship The Mary W. Doak scholarship is in honor of the accomplishments of Mary W. Doak, who served as the first dean of women for Texas Technological College in 1925. She later became a member of the English faculty in 1945. Doak Hall, named for Mary W. Doak, was the home of University Student Housing for many years. Student Success research supports that students who choose to live on-campus typically do better both socially and academically. In order to support our on-campus students, University Student Housing offers a $500.00 per semester ($1,000 total for the academic year) scholarship for students who currently live on campus and who will live on-campus for the next academic year. Residency is verified during each semester for scholarships to be awarded. Requirements are as follows: Currently, live on-campus and will live on-campus for the upcoming academic year Maintain full-time student status as outlined by Texas Tech University Consideration is given to students with financial need Agree to a University Student Housing photo-release Fill out the Mary W. Doak Scholarship Application. Questions listed on the Application (Please only choose one): How will this scholarship impact your experience at Texas Tech and prepare you for your career? (750-word maximum) What impact(s) have you made on campus and how do you plan to continue this moving forward? (750-word maximum) Graduate/Professional Student Scholarship The Graduate/Professional Student scholarship is designed to support those graduate or professional students who currently live on-campus and who will live on-campus for the next academic year. University Student Housing primarily serves traditional undergraduate students. However, over the years, advances in our residential facilities now better serve the needs of graduate and professional program students. University Student Housing offers this $1000.00 per semester ($2,000 total for the academic year) scholarship for students meeting the stated requirements. Residency is verified during each semester for scholarships to be awarded. Requirements are as follows: Currently, live on-campus and will live on-campus for the upcoming academic year. Maintain full-time graduate or professional student status as outlined by Texas Tech University, Texas Tech Law School, or Texas Tech Health Sciences Center. Consideration is given to students with financial need Agree to a University Student Housing photo-release Fill out the USH Graduate Student Scholarship Application. Questions listed on Application: What does motivation mean to you? (750-word maximum) Fill out the University Student Housing Graduate/Professional Student Scholarship Application. Angela Forney Memorial Scholarship The Angela Forney Memorial Scholarship is awarded to a first-generation college student who exemplifies the spirit of a servant leader by participating in community service, has demonstrated leadership through membership in organizations, maintains a 2.75 cumulative GPA, and is committed to living on-campus for the upcoming year. University Student Housing offers this $750.00 per semester ($1,500 total for the academic year) scholarship for students meeting the stated requirements. Residency is verified during each semester for scholarships to be awarded. Requirements are as follows: Currently, live on-campus and will live on-campus for the upcoming academic year Maintain full-time student status as outlined by Texas Tech University Must have at least a 2.75 GPA to apply and maintain the scholarship Identify and are listed as a First-Generation college student Possess demonstrated commitment to community service Possess demonstrated leadership through involvement in organizations Agree to a University Student Housing photo-release Fill out the Angela Forney Memorial Scholarship Application. Questions listed on Application: Please describe how your education and involvement at Texas Tech will help you achieve your goals. (750-word maximum) The Exousia – Michael G. Burrows Memorial Scholarship In 1998, Michael G. Burrows was a first-year student at Texas Tech and had a promising life ahead of him. He was tragically killed that next fall in a vehicle accident on his way to a student conference. He lived in Murdough Hall, and his death had a strong impact on a fellow student named Zelvis Applin. Zelvis commented that “Micheal was the type of person who always walked around wearing a smile. He had a way of making you feel better whenever he greeted you…no matter how bad your day was going.” Zelvis wrote and performed a song at Michael's memorial service in October of 1999. It's there he met Deidra Hader, the Complex Director for Stangel/Murdough. They struck up a conversation. Over the next few months, they had conversations about race relations on the Texas Tech campus, and the overwhelming need that exists to draw people together based on commonalities, not differences. From these conversations, Exousia was developed as a contribution to Black History Month education and celebration activities. Admission collected to Exousia helped to fund this scholarship along with a generous financial gift from Michael's mother. University Student Housing offers this $500.00 per semester ($1,000 total for the academic year) scholarship for students meeting the stated requirements. Requirements are as follows: Maintain full-time student status as outlined by Texas Tech University Must have at least a 2.5 GPA to apply Sophomore level or above Demonstrated ability to overcome adversity by utilizing determination and perseverance Agree to a University Student Housing photo-release Fill out the Exousia – Michael G. Burrows Memorial Scholarship Application. Questions listed on Application: How have you persevered through challenges that have arisen since you started at Texas Tech? What have you learned from these experiences? (750-word maximum) Please describe a time that you have supported someone that was going through a difficult situation. How did you help them work through it? (750-word maximum) RHA Student Leader Scholarship In support of student leaders and their academic success, the Residence Halls Association (RHA) is pleased to present the annual Student Leader Scholarship program. This scholarship rewards the success of current student leaders and encourages further involvement throughout the next year from those selected. RHA offers this $500.00 per semester ($1,000 total for the academic year) scholarship for students meeting the stated requirements. Residency is verified during each semester for a scholarship to be awarded. Requirements are as follows: Must currently be living in the residence halls at Texas Tech University. Must be enrolled as a full-time student at Texas Tech University at the time of application, and for the duration of the award period. Must have a cumulative GPA of a 2.5 or higher at the time of application. Must be a student leader making a positive impact within the residence halls. (University Student Staff members and compensated student leaders are not eligible. i.e., CA, SA, SJA, RT, and RHA executive officers.) Must have completed a contract and paid all applicable fees to live in a residence hall for the following academic year, by the time of application deadline. If selected, must maintain a cumulative GPA of at least 2.5 for the duration of the following academic year. The student must be in good standing with Texas Tech University and University Student Housing. Should a recipient later be hired as a student staff member within University Student Housing, they will become ineligible for remaining allocations of funds. Agree to a University Student Housing photo-release Fill out the RHA Student Leader Scholarship Application. Questions listed on the application: What feeds your inspiration and desire to serve others in positions of leadership? (750-word maximum) Student Staff Scholarship The Student Staff Leadership Council (SSLC) and University Student Housing (USH) are proud to offer several $1,000 scholarships to University Student Housing student staff members. The scholarships will be awarded ($500 each semester) pending continued employment. Any USH student employee is eligible! Requirements are as follows: Student Staff member is employed by University Student Housing Will be employed for University Student Housing for the upcoming academic year. Agree to University Student Housing photo-release Fill out the Student Staff Scholarship Application. Questions listed on Application (Please choose one): How do you use the SERVE USH model to build relationships with other members of your team or students? (750-word maximum) S- seek opportunities to build positive staff relationships E- expect to follow expectations and engage when setting expectations R- recognize individual and team efforts V - value each other's time and contributions to the team E - express concerns professionally and in a timely manner U - utilize each other's strengths S - succeed together. H - housing is our home Guns Up Forevermore Scholarship Founded in 2014 by the Residence Halls Association, the Guns Up Forevermore campaign recognizes students who have demonstrated their passion for Texas Tech by helping other students through the idea of 'paying it forward' and have exemplified the qualities of being an outstanding member of the Red Raider community by a continual show of school spirit. Special consideration will be given to students who exemplify the traits listed above and whose future at Texas Tech may be in jeopardy due to temporary financial need. Awards will be distributed on a rolling basis throughout the academic year in varying amounts as needed. Requirements are as follows: Nominees must be a current full-time student at Texas Tech University Nominees must be in good standing with Texas Tech positively, and University Student Housing Nominees must live on campus at Texas Tech University Nominees must have a cumulative GPA of 2.25 or higher Fill out the Guns Up Forevermore Scholarship Nomination Form Application. Guns Up Forevermore awards are designed for students who go above and beyond to help other students and represent Texas Tech positively, as such, students are typically only awarded this scholarship once during their career at Texas Tech. The nature of this scholarship recognizes those that give selflessly to help others and the university. This selfless service should be noticeable and make a regular impact. For these reasons, you must be nominated by someone else within the Texas Tech community to receive this scholarship. How to Apply Click on the appropriate link under the “Apply” column to apply for a scholarship. Each scholarship requires you to upload the “Photo/Testimonial Release Form” with the application. Should this prohibit you from applying for the scholarship, or if you have any questions about the application process, please contact Tamara McClain at tamara.mcclain@ttu.edu or 806-742-4996 to discuss possible options? Students may apply for as many scholarships as they are eligible for. Scholarship Deadlines Scholarship Due Date Apply Mary W. Doak Scholarship March 20, 2022 Closed USH Graduate/Professional Student Scholarship March 20, 2022 Closed Angela Forney Memorial Scholarship March 20, 2022 Closed The Exousia – Michael G. Burrows Memorial Scholarship March 20, 2022 Closed RHA Student Leader Scholarship March 20, 2022 Closed Student Staff Scholarship March 20, 2022 Closed Guns Up Forevermore Scholarship Nomination Form Available Fall/Spring Open Academic Year 2022 – 2023 Academic Year 2022 - 2023 Scholarship Stats Scholarships Number of Recipients Total Amount Awarded Mary W. Doak 60 $60,000 RHA Student Leader 8 $8,000 Student Staff 8 $8,000 Angela Forney 5 $7,500 Michael G. Burrows-Exousia 5 $7,500 Hilda Alonzo 1 $500 Housing Assistance 324 $324,000 Graduate Assistance 18 $84,000 TOTAL 429 $499,500 All housing scholarships require the recipient to live on campus and continue to live on campus throughout the duration of the award and/or be employed by University Student Housing (as applicable). For additional information regarding eligibility and criteria for each scholarship, please see below. How to Give Back If you are interested in making a gift to support our scholarship efforts, please click the Support Housing Scholarships link below. Support Housing Scholarships University Student Housing Like University Student Housing on FacebookLike University Student Housing on Facebook Follow University Student Housing on twitterFollow University Student Housing on twitter Subscribe to University Student Housing on YouTubeSubscribe to University Student Housing on YouTube Follow University Student Housing on FlickrFollow University Student Housing on Flickr Follow University Student Housing on PinterestFollow University Student Housing on Pinterest Follow University Student Housing on InstagramFollow University Student Housing on Instagram Address Wiggins Complex, 3211 18th St., Box 41141, Lubbock, TX 79409 Phone (806) 742-2661 | Fax: (806) 742-2696 Email housing@ttu.edu Texas Tech University 2500 Broadway Lubbock, Texas 79409 806.742.2011 Follow Texas Tech University Like Texas Tech University on FacebookLike Texas Tech University on Facebook Follow Texas Tech University on twitterFollow Texas Tech University on twitter Check in with Texas Tech University on FourSquareCheck in with Texas Tech University on FourSquare Subscribe to Texas Tech University on YouTubeSubscribe to Texas Tech University on YouTube Follow Texas Tech University on FlickrFollow Texas Tech University on Flickr Follow Texas Tech University on InstagramFollow Texas Tech University on Instagram Connect with Texas Tech University on LinkedInConnect with Texas Tech University on LinkedIn Contact Texas Tech UniversityContact Texas Tech University Contact Us Campus Map Jobs @ TTU Emergency Communication Center General Policy Information Public Access to Course Info Energy Management Mental Health Resources Title IX Fraud and Misconduct Hotline Online Institutional Resumes TTU System TTU Health Sciences Center TTUHSC El Paso Angelo State University Midwestern State University Statewide Search State of Texas Texas Homeland Security Texas Veterans Portal Texas CREWS SAO Fraud Reporting Open Records Requests © 2022 Texas Tech UniversityMar 22, 2022 8:13 AM University Student Housing Housing Sign Up Information University Student Housing Housing Sign Up Information Back Sign Up Information University Student Housing Housing Sign Up Information Sign Up Information Back Sign up for Housing Contract Information Off Campus Eligibility Red Raider Express Pass Residence Hall Selection Guide Room Availability Report Prospective Students University Student Housing Prospective Students Back Residence Hall Information University Student Housing Prospective Students Residence Hall Information Back Residence Hall Selection Guide Virtual Brochure Off Campus Eligibility Flex Housing Move In/ Move Out Red Raider Express Pass Room Change Housing Rates University Student Housing Prospective Students Housing Rates Back Housing Rates Rate Calculator Deposit and Billing Information About TTU University Student Housing Prospective Students About TTU Back Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Spirit & Traditions All Student Organizations Student Recreation Current Residents University Student Housing Current Residents Back My Housing University Student Housing Current Residents My Housing Back Hall Addresses and Mailing information FixIT Maintenance Request View Roommate and Dining Plan Move In/ Move Out Holiday Break Information Room Change Hospitality Services University Student Housing Current Residents Hospitality Services Back University ID Change Dining Plan Get Involved University Student Housing Current Residents Get Involved Back Student Organizations Social Justice Advocates Residence Hall Association Events University Student Housing Current Residents Events Back Carol of Lights® Professing Excellence Safe Treat Tunnel of Awareness End of the Year Banquet MLK Celebration Student Services University Student Housing Current Residents Student Services Back Academic Improvement Plan Housing Scholarships Residential Tutoring About Us University Student Housing About Us Back Leadership Team University Student Housing About Us Leadership Team Back Staff Directory Housing Areas University Student Housing About Us Housing Areas Back Administration and Business Services Facilities Services Residence Life Work for Housing Services and Resources University Student Housing About Us Services and Resources Back Conference Services Marketing Request Form Solicitation Form IT Helpdesk Additional Resources TTU HomeDirectory Raiderlink A-Z Index