Accessibility Options: Skip to Content Skip to Search Skip to footer Office of Disability Services Request Assistance 305-284-2374 Display: Default High Contrast University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Apply About UM Schools School of Architecture College of Arts & Sciences Miami Herbert Business School School of Communication School of Education & Human Development College of Engineering School of Law Rosenstiel School of Marine & Atmospheric Science Miller School of Medicine Frost School of Music School of Nursing & Health Studies The Graduate School Division of Continuing & International Education Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Search Tools People Search Class Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Search UM (Mobile) Apply Apply About UM Schools Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Academics Admissions Student Life Research UHealth Athletics Tools Popular Links Coronavirus Information News@TheU People Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement Home Search Site About Us About the Division Departments & Areas Strategic Plan Leadership About Dr. Whitely Contact Us Office of the Vice President Student Well-Being Well-Being Resources Healthy 'Cane Network 'Canes Care for 'Canes COVID-19 Resources Resources COVID-19 Resources Student Resources Staff Resources Graduate Assistantships 'Canes Care for 'Canes Report a Concern News Give About Us Student Well-Being Resources 'Canes Care for 'Canes News Give Search About Us About the Division Departments & Areas Strategic Plan Leadership About Dr. Whitely Contact Us Office of the Vice President Student Well-Being Well-Being Resources Healthy 'Cane Network 'Canes Care for 'Canes COVID-19 Resources Resources COVID-19 Resources Student Resources Staff Resources Graduate Assistantships 'Canes Care for 'Canes Report a Concern News Give Our COVID-19 Response Virtual Programs and Services 'Canes Care for 'Canes Graduate Assistantships in Student Affairs About Us Resources Leadership Staff Support News Give Home Resources Graduate Assistantships in Student Affairs AAA Graduate Assistantships in Student Affairs Graduate students have the ability to practice professional skills by serving as a graduate assistant in a student affairs area or partner area. Based on the individual department, students may engage in program development and planning, student advising, administrative support, student mentoring, supervising, and more. Becoming a graduate assistant enables you to apply the theory you learn in your graduate program into practice. To be considered for a graduate assistantship in Student Affairs, students must be admitted or enrolled in a graduate program at the University of Miami. Application Requirements Currently admitted or enrolled University of Miami graduate student Higher Education is preferred, but not required Relevant demographic information, including name, email address, phone number, program of study, academic year, and anticipated graduate year Current and relevant copy of your resume and a cover letter Applicants may either submit a general cover letter or separate cover letters for each position they chose to apply for Contact information for at least one professional reference Application Candidates may apply to all assistantships, including our partner areas, they have interest in via this single application (excluding Fraternity Graduate Assistant in Dean of Students Office). Candidates will be able to rank assistantships by order of their interest. This will be taken into account if two or more departments have interviewed you and want to offer you a position. Your application will only be sent to the departments or areas that you select on this form. Once you complete your application, you will receive an email submission record to the email you include in the form. Central Application Open Departments and Areas Open All Tabs Butler Center in partnership with Civic & Community Engagement (currently filled) The Butler Center for Service & Leadership focuses on enhancing student learning through experiences, involvement, service, and relationships. There are a plethora of student organizations that serve the greater Miami community directly through the Butler Center as well as groups that promote leadership skill development and civic participation. The Office of Civic and Community Engagement (CCE) fosters university-community collaboration by engaging the university’s academic resources in the enrichment of civic and community life in our local, national, and global communities. Civic Scholars Coordinator Graduate Assistantship Position Description Term Availability: Filled Point of Contact: Marisa Hightower (CCE) & Lindsey Woods (Butler Center) Counseling Center (currently filled) The University of Miami Counseling Center (UMCC) provides a wide array of effective and quality multi-disciplinary psychological services. Respecting diversity and all cultural identities, we empower students to realize their goals for personal and emotional development. We connect with the university community through outreach, prevention, and consultative services. Counseling Center Graduate Assistant, Outreach Services Term Availability: Filled Point of Contact: Kimberly Martin Dean of Students Office (Fraternity Graduate Assistant accepting applications for Fall 2022) The mission of the Dean of Students Office to cultivate the intellectual, social, emotional, spiritual and ethical development of students at the University of Miami by providing and overseeing a range of programs that create an optimal living and learning environment. Our programs and services include: student support, greek life, student conduct, the Sandler Center for Alcohol & Other Drug Education, Honor Council, and Chaplains Association. Five assistantships are available within this area Fraternity Graduate Assistant* FGA Position Description Term Available: Accepting Applications Point of Contact: Dean Cristina Luna This position requires live-in responsibilities at an all-male fraternity house; candidates must identify as men. Greek Life* Greek Life Position Description Term Available: Unavailable Point of Contact: Dean Cristina Luna Honor Council Honor Council Position Description Term Available: Filled Point of Contact: Dean Dayle Wilson Sandler Center for Alcohol & Other Drug Education - Programming Sandler Center Programming Position Description Term Available: Filled Point of Contact: Dean Rachel Askowitz Sandler Center for Alcohol & Other Drug Education - Public Health Focus Sandler Center Public Health Position Description Term Available: Filled Point of Contact: Dean Rachel Askowitz Assistantships denoted with an asterisk (*) may only be applied via direct email to Cristina Luna at cluna@miami.edu. Housing and Residential Life (currently filled) The Department of Housing and Residential Life is home to an extensive and diverse residential program featuring seven residential communities. The cornerstone of the residential program is a system of residential colleges that blend the Oxford and Cambridge tradition of live-in faculty with the American commitment to student development and academic success. Residential Education Residential Life Graduate Assistant Term Availability: Filled Point of Contact: Tiffani Idol Multicultural Student Affairs (accepting applications) The Office of Multicultural Student Affairs provides services and resources that support the academic mission of the institution. Through their services and programs, MSA engages the entire UM community. MSA Graduate Assistant Position Description Term Availability: Accepting Applications Point of Contact: Christopher Clarke Multicultural Students Affairs in partnership with the Office of Civic and Community Engagement and Butler Center for Service and Leadership (accepting applications) The Office of Multicultural Student Affairs, Office of Civic and Community Engagement, and the Butler Center for Service and Leadership organize the Racial Justice Grant Program to support research, service, and/or programmatic activities that center on race, racial justice, and racial equity. We seek to support teams of students, faculty, staff, and community partners to implement tangible initiatives to fight racism. Racial Justice Grant Program applications are solicited to support community-based scholarship and activities that will promote lasting change in our local and/or campus communities related to racial justice. To assist with this project, we are seeking a graduate assistant to support our grant programmatic efforts. Racial Justice Grant Program Position Description Term Availability: Accepting Applications Point of Contact: Christopher Clarke LGBTQ Student Center (currently filled) The UM LGBTQ Student Center fosters inclusion and support of University of Miami students, faculty, staff, and alumni inclusive of all genders, orientations, and expressions, and focusses on education and outreach, programming, intergroup engagement, empowerment, and advocacy for increased visibility in the university community. LGBTQ Student Center Graduate Assistant Position Description Term Availability: Filled Point of Contact: Dr. Gisela Vega Orientation & Commuter Student Involvement (currently filled) The Department of Orientation & Commuter Student Involvement (OCSI) supports new students and families through their transition to the University of Miami. OCSI facilitates programs and resources to successfully and holistically acclimate all new undergraduate students to the academic and social fabric of the institution. OCSI Graduate Assistant Position Description Term Availability: Filled Point of Contact: Stephanie Fleitas Student Activities & Student Organizations (accepting applications) Student Activities & Student Organizations (SASO) strives to help students discover all that the UM community has to offer, connect with their peers, engage with various involvement and leadership opportunities, and transform themselves and their communities. SASO Graduate Assistant Position Description Term Availability: Accepting Applications Point of Contact: Brynne Wyatt Student Center Complex (accepting applications) The Student Center Complex (SCC) is the place on campus for events, meetings, retail, and dining. The SCC is the community center of the University as it provides space for students to study, socialize, and engage in student life and for department offices. SCC Graduate Assistant Position Description Term Availability: Accepting Applications Point of Contact: Oscar Vazquez Office of the Vice President for Student Affairs (accepting applications) The Office of the Vice President for Student Affairs manages a variety of events, services, and collaborations that support the educational mission of the University of Miami. This position will work the areas of student leadership, Student Government, and student advocacy. VPSA Student Leadership Graduate Assistant Position Description Term Availability: Accepting Applications Point of Contact: Heather Stevens Student Affairs Partners Open All Tabs Civic and Community Engagement (accepting applications) The Office of Civic and Community Engagement (CCE) fosters university-community collaboration by engaging the university’s academic resources in the enrichment of civic and community life in our local, national, and global communities. Civic Engagement High School Partnership Coordinator Term Availability: Accepting Applications Point of Contact: Marisa Hightower FAQs Open All Tabs Do these positions include a tuition stipend or tuition scholarship? No, the compensation for each position is determined by the individual area and does not include any sort of institutional aid. Please contact your program director or financial aid if you have questions related to tuition scholarships. For students within the Ed.D. and M.S.Ed. Programs: Scholarship dollars are not included within the assistantship and must be discussed directly with the Higher Education Administration and Leadership Program Director. Will I be interviewed following my application? A representative from the department or areas that you indicated interest will follow up with you. If you indicated more than one area, it is likely that you may be asked to interview with each department separately. Please regularly check the email address that you indicated within your application. I am interested in a position, but it does not allow me to apply on the central application. What do I do? If you are applying for a position related to Greek Life (Fraternity Graduate Assistant or Greek Life) within the Dean of Students Office, applications may only be submitted via email to Cristina Luna at cluna@miami.edu. If you are still experiencing trouble finding the position you wish to apply, please contact Heather Stevens at hstevens@miami.edu for assistance. If I have additional questions that are not addressed here, who can I contact? Please contact Heather Stevens, Assistant Director of Divisional Initiatives and Student Advocacy. Email: hstevens@miami.edu Phone: 305-284-5221 University of Miami Coral Gables, FL 33124 305-284-2211 Division of Student Affairs 1252 Memorial Drive Coral Gables, FL 33146 305-284-4922 305-284-4922 vpsa@miami.edu Resources About UM myUM CaneLink Academic Calendar Blackboard UM Network Alumni Association Medical Center Hurricane Sports Employment Opportunities Visit Campus Map Parking & Transportation Connect social-facebook social-twitter social-youtube social-instagram Copyright: 2022 University of Miami. All Rights Reserved. Emergency Information Privacy Statement & Legal Notices