Menu Close Menu Skip to content Information For: Prospective Students Current Students Alumni Faculty & Staff Friends & Supporters A to Z index Search for: Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health Email People Departments Calendar Careers my.harvard Giving About Faculty & Research Admissions & Aid Academics Executive/Continuing Ed News News > News > Featured News Stories > 2022 > Getting to know … Brandon Alexander Anthony, MPH ’22 News Menu Search for: News Home Press Releases 2020 Releases 2019 Releases 2018 Releases 2017 Releases 2016 Releases 2015 Releases 2014 Releases 2013 Releases 2012 Releases 2011 Releases Search the press releases archive Features In the News Multimedia 2021 Multimedia 2020 Multimedia 2019 Multimedia 2018 Multimedia 2017 Multimedia 2016 Multimedia 2015 Multimedia 2014 Multimedia 2013 Multimedia 2012 Multimedia HPH Magazine Faculty Stories Faculty News, Notes, and Accolades Student Stories Student News, Notes, and Accolades Alumni Stories Explore Research by Topic Office of Communications Make a Gift Getting to know … Brandon Alexander Anthony, MPH ’22 March 30, 2022 – Brandon Alexander Anthony cares about good design. Armed with degrees in systems engineering from East Carolina University, business from Georgia Tech, and epidemiology from Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health, he hopes to launch a company that helps health systems design better services for patients of color, LGBTQ patients, and other marginalized groups. I used to want to be an architect or an archaeologist. I’ve always had a love for design of buildings and civilizations. Both of my parents started their own companies. My mom launched her own health consulting firm and my dad started a company as a telecommunications contractor. They ingrained in me when I was young that anything is possible and to not be afraid of taking risks. Beautiful design can transcend what you can see with your eye. That’s what drew me to systems engineering—it’s a way of helping people in the background. When I was in college, for example, one of the projects I worked on was with a children’s hospital, helping burnt-out healthcare providers with time management. People may never know those of us who worked on that project, but we helped create better patient outcomes. Before I got my MBA, I worked as vice president of business development for a healthcare consulting firm. We had one large regional health system client, and we were focused on revenue cycle management, ensuring that that they were receiving maximum reimbursements in accordance with guidelines. Later, we focused more on value-based care and collecting the right data to measure patient experiences. Everyone’s always talking about better patient outcomes, but first you have to collect quality data inputs. I came to Harvard Chan School because even though I had the engineering process improvement background and the framework for running a business, I wanted more exposure to public health. An epidemiologist is a data detective, looking for patterns in data and then figuring out how to tell a story and present that to an audience. I wanted to learn more about how to better understand a patient population so that I could help create that perfect equilibrium where you are meeting your business objectives but also improving your health system objectives. For my practicum project, I’ve been looking at whether there is a racial bias within mental health treatment. It’s been shown there is a belief that people of color have a higher pain threshold. I was wondering if mental health providers spend less time with Black or Latino patients because they feel like they are more conditioned to handle depression or anxiety, and if that could explain some of their worse outcomes relative to other groups. As it turns out, those disparities are probably much more complex, and one variable doesn’t explain it. Rather, it’s a combination of things that could include access to resources, healthy foods, good-paying jobs, a clean environment, and other factors affecting population health. My post-graduation goal is to launch a health tech company addressing some of the demographic disparities in health care to improve quality care to patients regardless of their race, national origin, age, gender, sexual orientation, gender identity, geographic location, or socioeconomic status. I’m a big advocate for precision health care instead of a one-size-fits-all approach. I think the next frontier is integrating AI machine learning and digital tools to drive better patient outcomes, and any kind of platform being developed within the health care arena has to incorporate everybody’s experiences, including underserved populations. My professional career benefitted from living in Atlanta, a very diverse city with a lot of Black professionals. Seeing people who look like me excelling in leadership spaces has driven me to achieve in the past and continues to motivate me. When I’ve gone to other cities, being a Black professional in health care has come with challenges, especially given my young age. I’ve had to work harder to prove that I’m knowledgeable, that I know what I’m talking about. One of my goals post-graduation is to be an inspiration to others and to show people who have had less resources than others that it doesn’t matter where you started out, that it’s possible to work toward and achieve your goals. Biking along Lake Michigan I’m very much into fitness. That’s one thing that I do to manage my stress and mental health here in Chicago, where I live now. I like to ride my bike along the riverfront or the lake shore and take pictures of all the beautiful architecture. It goes back to my love of design—Chicago is the birthplace of the skyscraper and I have a love for those tall buildings. – Michael Blanding photos courtesy Brandon Alexander Anthony Share this:FacebookTwitterLinkedInReddit Subscribe The COVID-19 Update Our researchers are on the front lines of the global response to the COVID-19 pandemic. Sign up here to receive our weekly newsletter highlighting their efforts. Join mailing list Additional newsletters and mailing lists Related Articles health disparities health systems mental health racism Racism, sexism, social class, and health—30 years ago and today Tackling disparities and stigma around obesity and mental health care for minority populations Shock to the system More on this topic Student’s journey to U.S. to save daughter sparks a career in public health Using patient safety as tool to improve health inequalities Both rich and poor countries saw essential health services decline during COVID More on this topic Probing disease disparities Tackling disparities and stigma around obesity and mental health care for minority populations Experts encourage moms to prioritize self-care this Mother’s Day More on this topic Better data needed around deaths in police custody Racism, sexism, social class, and health—30 years ago and today Could breastfeeding explain disparities in sudden infant deaths? More on this topic Explore HSPH research by topic Harvard Chan School News on Twitter In the wake of a May 24 mass shooting at a Uvalde, Texas, elementary school that left 19 students and two teachers… https://t.co/x8GHo0fMZS RT @dengdiit: This week,I had the honor and responsibility of receiving a master’s degree in public health with concentration in health pol… RT @Harvard: “Don’t let your generation be defined by the pandemic. Let it be defined by public service,” said Attorney General Merrick Gar… RT @HarvardCCHANGE: Looking for ways to take action on #climate? The Climate Health Organizing Fellowship trains health professionals to u… RT @HarvardCCHANGE: Creativity is turning coal mines, landfills, and toxic waters into opportunities for #CleanEnergy. Your lights yearn to… RT @HarvardCenterHH: What is the relationship between #technology and #happiness? This @Forbes article offers potential considerations, wit… Information For: Prospective Students Current Students Alumni Faculty & Staff Friends & Supporters About Key Facts Renaming the School Office of the Dean Location and Facilities Administrative Offices Contact Us Faculty and Research Faculty and Researcher Directory Academic Departments, Divisions and Centers International Research Postdoctoral Research Fellows Office of Faculty Affairs Faculty Searches Office of Diversity and Inclusion Admissions & Aid Why Harvard Chan Degree Programs Non-Degree Programs Financial Aid Student Experience Career Advancement Apply Academics Academic Departments Divisions Research Centers Flagship Initiatives International Research Research Administration and Support Degree Programs Fellowships and Residencies Summer Programs Continuing Professional Education Interdisciplinary Concentrations Academic Calendar Harvard Chan Viewbook Executive/Continuing Ed Program Offerings Custom Programs Request Information News and Resources About ECPE Contact News Featured News Press Releases Student Stories In the News Newsletters HPH Magazine Why Public Health? Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health 677 Huntington Avenue Boston, MA 02115 +1 (617) 495‑1000 Twitter Facebook YouTube LinkedIn Instagram iTunes Harvard Chan Home Contact Us Harvard University Home Make a Gift Privacy Policy Report Copyright Violation Accessibility Copyright © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College Loading Comments... Write a Comment... Email (Required) Name (Required) Website