Skip to main content Menu Resources Home Admissions Campus Life Academics Visit Outreach Research About Apply or Give Apply Now Make a Gift Board of Trustees Clemson University Board of Trustees Values Clemson University was established to fulfill its founder’s vision of a “high seminary of learning,” to develop the material resources of South Carolina and to enhance the economic opportunities for South Carolina citizens. Today Clemson is a nationally recognized land-grant research university committed to providing students with an academic foundation that gives them the opportunity for meaningful careers and to be leaders who give back to society. Clemson is a student-centered institution whose mission is to educate students in a manner consistent with these values and to drive economic development in South Carolina. The Board of Trustees honors the intent of Mr. Clemson’s Will and shares the following values: VALUES INTEGRITY Be honest, trustworthy, responsible and ethical. RESPECT Value the rights of others, their individual differences, beliefs and ideas. Actively listen and communicate. Seek to understand the challenges they face and be tolerant and forgiving. DIVERSITY Attract and retain students, faculty and staff with diverse backgrounds who come together as one inclusive Clemson family. PATRIOTISM Honor our military heritage and our commitment to duty, service, leadership, tradition and civic responsibility. EXCELLENCE Exceed expectations and continuously improve. Be creative and take appropriate risks. Learn from failure. Best is the standard. SELF-RELIANCE Work hard, exercise self-discipline, be results oriented, and dare to do the right thing, even when it is difficult or unpopular. Home Award for Excellence Clemson Medallion Committees Manual Members Minutes Policies Values Statement Contact Us Task Forces History of Clemson Related Links University President University Provost Board of Trustees Board of Visitors Diversity and Inclusion Faculty Senate Staff Senate University Reports Accountability Report Clemson University Security and Fire Safety Report ClemsonForward Home Admissions Campus Life Academics Visit Outreach Research About Apply To Clemson Undergraduate Graduate Professional Online Education Employment Opportunities Policy/Terms of Use Text Version Web Accessibility Ethics/Safety Hotline Privacy Policy Site Information Copyright © 2022 Clemson University Clemson, South Carolina 29634 864-656-3311 Contact Clemson Stories for the Clemson Family Clemson University on Facebook Clemson University on Twitter Clemson University on LinkedIn Clemson University on Flickr Clemson University on Instagram