Accessibility Options: Skip to Content Skip to Search Skip to footer Office of Disability Services Request Assistance 305-284-2374 Display: Default High Contrast University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Apply About UM Schools School of Architecture College of Arts & Sciences Miami Herbert Business School School of Communication School of Education & Human Development College of Engineering School of Law Rosenstiel School of Marine & Atmospheric Science Miller School of Medicine Frost School of Music School of Nursing & Health Studies The Graduate School Division of Continuing & International Education Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Search Tools People Search Class Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Search UM (Mobile) Apply Apply About UM Schools Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Academics Admissions Student Life Research UHealth Athletics Tools Popular Links Coronavirus Information News@TheU People Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement Home Search Site OVPRS Websites Research and Scholarship Home Research Development and Evaluation Research Capacity and Operations Research Administration Regulatory Affairs and Assessment Research Navigator Research Lifecycle 1. Get Started 2. Identify Funding Opportunities 3. Write Proposal 4. Submit Proposal 5. Conduct Research 6. Commercialize Work Learners Key Partners About Vice Provost for Research and Scholarship Leadership Administrative Areas Centers and Institutes Core Facilities and Shared Resources Sign up for a Listserv Events Calendar Contact Us Research Lifecycle Learners Key Partners About Site Feedback Search Research Lifecycle 1. Get Started 2. Identify Funding Opportunities 3. Write Proposal 4. Submit Proposal 5. Conduct Research 6. Commercialize Work Learners Key Partners About Vice Provost for Research and Scholarship Leadership Administrative Areas Centers and Institutes Core Facilities and Shared Resources Sign up for a Listserv Events Calendar Contact Us Site Feedback OVPRS Websites Research and Scholarship Home Research Development and Evaluation Research Capacity and Operations Research Administration Regulatory Affairs and Assessment Research Navigator Get Started Identify Funding Opportunities Write Proposal Submit proposal Conduct Your Research Commercialize Your Research $sLabel Home Research Lifecycle Identify Opportunities AAA Identify Opportunities Get Started Identify Opportunities Write Proposal Submit Proposal Conduct Research Commercialize Tools for finding funding and collaborators. The University provides access to global databases for research administration and funding opportunities. The Office of the Vice Provost for Research & Scholarship also collects proposals for limited submissions (opportunities for which only one team per institution can apply). Pivot Pivot is the most comprehensive and trusted source for global funding information. It saves searches and tracks opportunities, and allows you to discover collaborators and get tailored funding recommendations and alerts. Limited Submission Competitions Limited Submission Applications are funding opportunities for which an external agency limits the number of proposals an institution may submit. Corporate and Foundations Development and Alumni Relations helps connect researchers and scholars with philanthropists, corporations and foundations that share their interests and goals. Links to External Agencies Federal Agencies State and Local Agencies Center for Disease Control (CDC) Department of Agriculture (USDA) Economic Research Service (ERS) Department of Defense (DOD) Department of Education (ED) Department of Energy (DOE) Department of Health and Human Services (DHHS) Department of Justice (DOJ) Department of Labor (DOL) Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) Health Resources and Services Administration (HRSA) Institute of Education Sciences (IES) National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA) National Endowment for the Arts (NEA) Policies and Important Links National Endowment for the Humanities (NEH) National Institutes of Health (NIH) NIH Grants Policy and Guidance (part of the Office of Extramural Research) NIH Institutes, Centers & Offices National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) National Park Service (NPS) National Science Foundation (NSF) NSF Proposal and Award Policies and Procedure Guide (PDF) Office of Naval Research (ONR) Small Business Administration (SBA) United States Army Medical Research Acquisition Activity (USAMRAA) Veteran Affairs Medical Center-Miami (VAMC-MIA) State Sponsoring Agencies Florida Biomedical Research Program (FBRP) Florida Children’s Medical Services (CMS) Florida Department of Children and Families (DCF) Florida Department of Health (DOH) State University System of Florida Local Sponsoring Agencies Jackson Memorial Hospital (JMH) Miami-Dade County (MDC) Miami-Dade County Public Schools (M-DCPS) Public Health Trust (PHT) Internal Awards U-LINK Our Laboratory for Integrative Knowledge, supporting teams of scholars from multiple disciplines in collaborative, problem-based inquiry to address the complex challenges of society. Provost's Research Awards Salary support and direct research costs for Coral Gables and RSMAS investigators in the Arts, Humanities, Natural Sciences & Engineering, and Social Sciences Miller School of Medicine Resources provided by the office of the Executive Dean for Research at the Leonard M. Miller School of Medicine Arts and Humanities A seasonal listing of support for scholarship in the humanities, including Fulbright programs and other internationally-recognized awards. Clinical and Translational Science Institute Resources Featured Open Awards Selection of awards currently seeking applications/ proposals. CTSI Pilot Program Awards The Miami CTSI Pilot and Collaborative Translational and Clinical Studies program provides intramural grants to support the growth of interdisciplinary and investigator-initiated research. External Scientific Review Program for Grant Resubmissions Assists UM investigators in receiving consultation and feedback from experts in the field on the resubmission of their unfunded proposal by awarding support for the external reviewer. CTSI Mentored Translational Research Scholars Program (KL2) Awards The KL2 award program provides funding to help deserving early career investigators establish academic careers involving important translational, transformational research programs. Internal Funding Internal Funding programs provide a wide array of research funding from bridge grants to pilot funds. Links NIH Funding Opportunities and Notices http://grants.nih.gov/grants/guide/index.html NIH Guide for Grants and Contracts (RSS) http://grants.nih.gov/grants/guide/newsfeed/fundingopps.xml Grants.gov http://www.grants.gov/applicants/find_grant_opportunities.jsp Grants.gov (RSS) http://www.grants.gov/help/rss.jsp Population Health Sciences Funding Opportunities The Patient-Centered Outcomes Research Institute (PCORI), an independent nonprofit, nongovernmental organization located in Washington, DC Twitter @MiamiCTSI @NIHforFunding University of Miami Coral Gables, FL 33124 305-284-2211 University of Miami Coral Gables, FL 33124 305-284-2211 305-284-2211 Resources About UM myUM CaneLink Academic Calendar Blackboard UM Network Alumni Association Medical Center Hurricane Sports Employment Opportunities Visit Campus Map Parking & Transportation Connect social-facebook social-twitter social-youtube social-instagram Copyright: 2022 University of Miami. All Rights Reserved. Emergency Information Privacy Statement & Legal Notices