Chancellor Offices Directory Contact Us About Us Leadership Our Universities Giving Reports Policies FP&C Home About FP&C Projects Vision & Planning Public Art Partner Resources News & Events Team Texas Tech Breaks Ground on Academic Sciences Building Read more TTU School of Veterinary Medicine "After almost two years of construction, the anticipation is finally over as faculty and staff now call the state-of-the-art buildings home." Read more TTU Dairy Barn The TTU Dairy Barn is officially restored and is a functioning facility once again! It is complete with office and meeting spaces for students, staff, faculty and alumni. Read more TTU System Public Art Collection Ranked Nationally as a Top-10 Outdoor Museum by Fodor's Travel The TTU System Public Art Collection includes more than 100 pieces from world-renowned artists across its four universities. Read more Medical Sciences Building II The TTU Health Science Center El Paso had the opportunity to hold its annual White Coat Ceremony for their students in the new Medical Science Building II. Facilities Planning & Construction A Message from the Vice Chancellor We are thrilled to have so many great things happening at the Texas Tech University System, and the Facilities Planning & Construction team continues working diligently to ensure excellence is reflected in each of our numerous projects. We are excited to welcome Midwestern State University as our fifth member institution and to support the system’s mission through innovative design, construction and renovation. Many of our projects are nearing completion—the first, TTU’s School of Veterinary Medicine Amarillo Campus and Mariposa Station, welcomed its inaugural class in Fall 2021. Our team was extremely proud to build two remarkable facilities for this historical and monumental achievement. We continue to partner with Texas Tech University Health Sciences Center on multiple projects. State-of-the-art facilities on the Lubbock campus help make TTUHSC, and its partnering clinics, leaders throughout their 108-county service area. In March 2021, we broke ground on a $30 million project on the Midland College campus. Construction will expand on the existing Dorothy and Todd Aaron Medical Science Building and double the current enrollment opportunities of the TTUHSC Physician's Assistant Program. Renovated spaces include classrooms, testing locations, faculty office spaces and a full gross anatomy laboratory. This expansion will be instrumental in addressing the shortage of health care professionals in the Permian Basin area and beyond. The Dallas Southwest Professional Building in the Parkland Memorial Hospital District is undergoing a sizable renovation. This building houses the TTUHSC Jerry H. Hodge School of Pharmacy and offers cutting-edge practice opportunities for students in the DFW area. Remodeled classroom spaces and faculty offices will elevate the institution’s learning environment substantially, along with updates to the building’s exterior façade and utilities. Two TTU projects have seen tremendous progress: the J.T. & Margaret Talkington College of Visual & Performing Arts Theater & Dance Complex and the Museum of Texas Tech University are driven by the system's mission to enhance and celebrate culture and the arts within the community. Phase II of the TCVPA renovation incorporates new elements of acoustic and audio-visual technology for a uniquely immersive theater experience. This includes both renovation and construction of areas within the Charles E. Maedgen Theater Building. This building will provide the growing performing arts program with exemplary facilities to expand creativity and promote innovation. Construction of the museum’s east wing will include a basement equipped with advanced research and storage facilities and a first-floor public gallery space designed to develop visitor engagement. Two completed TTU projects received recognition for excellence, including Weeks Hall and the Davis College of Agricultural Sciences & Natural Resources historic Dairy Barn. Both projects exemplify the innovation, collaboration and resourcefulness of our team. Weeks Hall, completed in 2020, received the ENR Texas & Louisiana 2021 Best Projects Award of Merit in the category of health care/research. FP&C project directors brought the outdated residence hall to life and repurposed the space to accommodate the needs of TTU’s campus community. The Dairy Barn rests in the heart of campus and is a sentimental landmark for many who have roamed the TTU grounds during its near-century existence. The renovation transformed the once-vacant barn into a fully functional building featuring office and meeting spaces. The project was recognized by the Lubbock Chapter of the American Institute of Architects with its 2021 Design Award. A strong emphasis on our Values Culture, along with a servant-leadership mentality, allows our team to exceed expectations serving our institutions. We are devoted to providing first-class facilities for everyone who steps foot on our campuses. We value our internal and external teams as we continue to select collaborators for upcoming projects. To learn more about our work, visit our Partner Resource page. Sincerely, Billy Breedlove Vice Chancellor, Facilities Planning & Construction Texas Tech University System Connect with FP&C: Fraud & Misconduct Hotline | Careers | Site Map | Webmaster Texas Tech University Texas Tech University Health Sciences Center Angelo State University Texas Tech University Health Sciences Center El Paso Midwestern State University State of Texas Statewide Search Online Institutional Resumes Texas Homeland Security Texas Veterans Portal SAO Fraud Reporting Energy Management TTU System Regulations General Policy Information Title IX Open Records Requests ©2013 Texas Tech University System 1508 Knoxville Avenue, Lubbock, TX 79409 806.742.2011 ©