COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW Visit Wichita State Shocker Nation is waiting! If you’re still in the deciding phase of your college search, there’s no better way to make your decision than by visiting Wichita State. Check below for options! Campus visits A personalized visit experience for prospective undergraduate students. Admissions events In-person and virtual events range from Black and Yellow Days to special events like Shocker Honor Scholars Receptions. Group visits Have a group of 10 or more students who want to visit campus? A group visit is the way to go. Campus visits A personalized visit experience for prospective undergraduate students. Tour campus and Shocker Hall, meet with admissions staff and learn more about your academic interest area. Please request your campus visit at least two weeks in advance. Admissions events Choose the event that’s right for you. In-person and virtual events range from Black and Yellow Days to special events like Shocker Honor Scholars Receptions. Our large programs are perfect for those interested in learning a little more about WSU. Group visits Have a group of 10 or more students who want to visit campus? A group visit is the way to go. Meet with admissions and tour the campus. Please request your group visit at least two weeks in advance, so we can plan accordingly. NOTE: Please request campus or group visits at least two weeks in advance. Miss a virtual event? Check out our list of previously recorded online events Find your way around Map and Directions Take the Virtual Tour 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©