Menu Close Menu Skip to content Information For: Prospective Students Current Students Alumni Faculty & Staff Friends & Supporters A to Z index Search for: Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health Email People Departments Calendar Careers my.harvard Giving About Faculty & Research Admissions & Aid Academics Executive/Continuing Ed News EPIC Immunization Costing Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health > EPIC Immunization Costing The resource requirements for national immunizations have rapidly increased in the last decade with the introduction of costly new vaccines. In this context, accurate information on the cost and financing of national immunization p rograms is essential for strategic planning and program management activities of national ministries as well as for donors. Despite the existence of tools such as the World Health Organization’s Comprehensive Multi-Year Planning Tool (CMYP) and the Joint Reporting Form, high-quality information on costs, expenditures, and funding flows are generally lacking. Where such information exists, it is not easily comparable across settings, and it is rarely used to examine productive efficiency. To address this gap, the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation provided financing for EPIC–a coordinated set of immunization costing and financing studies in 2012-2014 in six countries (Benin Ghana Uganda Zambia Moldova and Honduras). These studies collected data at central, subnational, and facility-level and were notable for their rigor in terms of sample design and comprehensiveness of resource use measurement. Learn more about EPIC immunization costing studies HERE News from the School Congratulations graduates! Probing disease disparities Saving a daughter, starting a career Tackling disparities and stigma around obesity, mental health Information For: Prospective Students Current Students Alumni Faculty & Staff Friends & Supporters About Key Facts Renaming the School Office of the Dean Location and Facilities Administrative Offices Contact Us Faculty and Research Faculty and Researcher Directory Academic Departments, Divisions and Centers International Research Postdoctoral Research Fellows Office of Faculty Affairs Faculty Searches Office of Diversity and Inclusion Admissions & Aid Why Harvard Chan Degree Programs Non-Degree Programs Financial Aid Student Experience Career Advancement Apply Academics Academic Departments Divisions Research Centers Flagship Initiatives International Research Research Administration and Support Degree Programs Fellowships and Residencies Summer Programs Continuing Professional Education Interdisciplinary Concentrations Academic Calendar Harvard Chan Viewbook Executive/Continuing Ed Program Offerings Custom Programs Request Information News and Resources About ECPE Contact News Featured News Press Releases Student Stories In the News Newsletters HPH Magazine Why Public Health? Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health 677 Huntington Avenue Boston, MA 02115 +1 (617) 495‑1000 Twitter Facebook YouTube LinkedIn Instagram iTunes Harvard Chan Home Contact Us Harvard University Home Make a Gift Privacy Policy Report Copyright Violation Accessibility Copyright © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College