skip to main content marquette.edu // Search // Contacts // A-Z Index Marquette UniversityRaynor Memorial Libraries Raynor Memorial Libraries Find Resources Catalogs of Other Libraries Class Reserves (Ares) Computer Availability (in library) E-Archives E-Book Collections E-Journal Collections E-Publications Encyclopedias, Dictionaries, etc. Items Not at MU Libraries MARQCATopen New Books, Journals, & Media Off Campus Access Research Databases, A to Z Research Guides Turnitin Video Collections Locations Books/Periodicals Brew @ the Bridge Center for Teaching and Learning Collections Conference Center Digital Scholarship Lab Floor Plans Funding Information Center Ott Writing Center Software/Hardware list Special Collections & University Archives Where is ... ? Research Help Help online Citation Software (RefWorks, etc.) Citation Style Guides Encyclopedias, Dictionaries FAQs Interlibrary Loan Items Not at MU Libraries Off Campus Access Request Forms Research Guides Help in person Digital Scholarship Consultations Research Consultations Library Classes, Tours, and Workshops Library Technology Assistance Subject Specialists / Liaisons Ott Writing Center Ask us Ask Us! Research Questions: (414) 288-7556 Fines, Holds, Borrowing and Renewing, Library Access: (414) 288-7555 Services Help online Citation Software (RefWorks, etc.) Citation Style Guides Encyclopedias, Dictionaries FAQs Interlibrary Loan Items Not at MU Libraries MARQCATopen Off Campus Access Request Forms Research Guides Building Services Carrels, Research or Study Faculty | Graduate Student Conference Center Circulation Class Reserve Classroom Reservations Group Study Rooms More Building Services → Other services Distance Services, Funding Information Center, Request Forms, Turnitin, Other Library Services Computing Services Computer Availability (in library) Laptops, Cameras, and Media Equipment Library Technology Assistance Off Campus Access Other Computer Labs on Campus PrintWise Client Download Remote Computer Access Software/Hardware list More Computing Services → About Raynor Memorial Libraries Raynor Memorial Libraries offers more than 1.8 million volumes, hundreds of research databases, computer access, laptops on loan, a multimedia collection, group study spaces, 24-hour access and library staff members who help researchers from around the world. Raynor Memorial Libraries Dean's Corner Hours Brew @ the Bridge Jobs (Student & Staff) Library Basics Library Policies Staff Directory Video Tour: English Version | Mandarin Version More Information → Collections Overview Electronic Collections Raynor Memorial Collections Resources for Graduate Programs Special Collections & University Archives Acquisitions Guide for Faculty New Titles Recently Added Information Desk: (414) 288-7556 Library A-Z Library A - Z A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z Frequently Asked Questions Where is....? Center for Teaching & Learning Ott Writing Center Your Accounts Campus Accounts CheckMarq eMarq (email) Desire2Learn (D2L) Library Accounts Class Reserves (ARES) Interlibrary Loan (ILLIAD) Library Catalog (MARQCAT) RefWorks Access Problems? Campus Accounts - ITS Help Desk - (414) 288-7799 Library Accounts - Information Desk - (414) 288-7556 Search This Website MARQCATplus MARQCAT Articles & Databases Research Guides Search for articles, books, DVDs, images, and more. Search by: Keyword Keywords in Title Author Advanced Search What is MARQCATplus? NOTE: MARQCATplus is now the default search. Search the library catalog for books, e-books, DVDs and more. Search by: Keyword Title Author (last name, first name) Subject Journal Title Form/Genre Call number ISBN/ISSN Tools: Advanced Search | MARQmobile Catalogs of Other Libraries NOTE: MARQCATplus is now the default search. Choose a topic / discipline: General & Multidisciplinary Accounting Advertising Anthropology Art Astronomy Biography Biological Sciences Biomedical Sciences Business Chemistry Citation Searching Communication Computer Science Country Studies Criminology Dance Data & Statistics Data Science Dentistry Digital Media Studies Dissertations & Theses Economics Education Engineering English (First Year) Environmental Science Ethics Ethnic Studies Exercise Science Faculty Resources Film Studies Finance Foundation and Nonprofit Research French Gender and Sexuality Studies German Health Sciences History Islamic Studies Italian Journalism Languages, Literatures and Cultures Law LGBTQ Studies Linguistics Literature Management Marketing Mathematics and Statistics Medical Laboratory Science Medieval Studies Military Studies Milwaukee and Wisconsin News and Newspapers Nursing Patents and Standards Performing Arts Philosophy Physical Therapy Physician Assistant Studies Physics Political Science Psychology Public Relations Publishers & Publishing Science & Technology Social Welfare & Justice Sociology Spanish Speech Pathology & Audiology Sports Leadership Strategic Communication Theology and Religious Studies Writing and Rhetoric Browse list of available article & database sources: Jump to: # A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P R S T U V W Access: Off-campus | Retiree | Outages Report access issues here. Choose a topic / discipline: Accounting Advertising Anthropology Art Biography Biological Sciences Biomedical Sciences Business Career Research Chemistry Citation Help & Software Citation Searching Communication Computer Science Country Studies Course Guides Criminology Dance Data & Statistics Data Science Dentistry Digital Media Studies Economics Education Engineering English (First Year) Environmental Science ESL Ethics Ethnic Studies Exercise Science Faculty Resources Film Studies Finance Foundation and Nonprofit Research French Gender and Sexuality Studies General & Multidisciplinary Research German Graduate Student Resources Health Sciences History Islamic Studies Journalism Languages, Literatures and Cultures LGBTQ Studies Linguistics Literature Management Marketing Marquette University Mathematics and Statistics Medical Laboratory Science Military Studies Milwaukee and Wisconsin News and Newspapers Nursing Patents and Standards Performing Arts Philosophy Physical Therapy Physician Assistant Studies Physics Political Science Psychology Public Relations Publishers & Publishing Reference Sources Science & Technology Social Innovation/Entrepreneurship Social Welfare & Justice Sociology Spanish Special Collections and Archives Strategic Communication Theology and Religious Studies Writing and Rhetoric Browse all Research Guides Course Guides General Research Guide Equipment Checkouts UnavailableLaptops and other tech equipment will be unavailable for checkout this week for a Digital Scholarship Lab inventory. Learn more... Have Your ID ReadyCOVID Cheq is no longer required for entry. Please use your valid MU ID to enter the library. Learn more... Featured Video: Alt-Ac Careers Hear about careers outside academia in this panel discussion recorded in a recent Digital Scholarship Lab open house. Learn more... Ask Us! Contact Hours Places to Study Collections Printing Off Campus Access Digital Scholarship Borrowing Visitors Starting Monday, May 23rd, COVID Cheq will no longer be required for entry. Please be ready to use your valid MU ID to enter the library. Ask a Raynor Librarian In Person Get research and technology help at the information desk. Information Desk Hours → Email Email us with your questions. You will receive a response within one business day. Phone Research questions: (414) 288-7556 Questions about fines, holds, borrowing & renewing, library access: (414) 288-7555 Appointment Schedule a Research Consultation with a librarian for in-depth help on your topic. Schedule a Digital Scholarship Consultation for help with a project involving media or the resources in the Digital Scholarship Lab. Schedule an appointment with an archivist for help with materials within Special Collections and University Archives. Send a Message Send us a message for help with basic library/research questions. Chat with an AJCU librarian Chat with backup staff Chat is offline. Please contact us by email or phone. Ask Us! Contact Us Locations within the library: Area Phone Archives Reference Desk (414) 288-7256 Brew @ The Bridge (Sodexo) (414) 288-8752 Center for Teaching & Learning (414) 288-0268 Circulation Desk (Raynor) (414) 288-7555 Conference Center Reservations (414) 288-6785 Dean's Office (414) 288-7214 Digital Scholarship Lab (414) 288-7253 Funding Information Center (414) 288-1515 Hours (building) (414) 288-1530 Information Desk (414) 288-7556 Interlibrary Loan (414) 288-7257 Library Information Technology (414) 288-6043 Media & Reserves (414) 288-8802 MU Press (414) 288-1564 Ott Writing Center (414) 288-5542 Renascence (414) 288-6725 Research Help (Information Desk) (414) 288-7556 Have a research question? Ask Us! Staff Directory Subject / Department liaisons Department Pages Access Services Circulation Interlibrary Loan Class Reserves Digital Scholarship and Programs Library Information Technology Research and Instructional Services Special Collections and University Archives Resource Management Technical Services Mail Address Raynor Memorial Libraries P.O. Box 3141 Milwaukee, WI 53201-3141 Library Hours Overnight access is restricted to Marquette University community members only. Hours by Semester Summer I 2022 View Visitor Hours & Policies → Brew @ The Bridge Hours During summer sessions, breaks, and holidays, the Brew @ The Bridge is closed. Special Collections and University Archives Looking to make an appointment? Contact an archivist → View All Library Hours → Places to Study Reserve a Group Study Room → Picture Name Location Description Kimberly-Clark Learning Commons Raynor 1st and 2nd The Commons offers over 100 computer stations for individual and group study, large tables with ethernet ports, power outlets, and comfortable chairs. Group Study Rooms Raynor LL, 1st and 2nd The student group study rooms on LL, 1st and 2nd floor can be reserved for use. All other group study rooms may be used on a first-come first-served basis. Reserve a group study room → R144A Raynor 1st Room 144A is available for individual use for purposes such as interviews, virtual appointments, and graduate admissions testing. The room only contains desk space, chairs, and a whiteboard. Students should bring their own devices and equipment. Students seeking a space to participate in online classes may use Raynor D on the Lower Level of Raynor. Please contact the Information Desk with questions. Check the availability and request this room → Digital Scholarship Lab Raynor LL This space has a variety of study and seating options: 2 open group study rooms (3-5 people each), 4 reservable group study rooms, Virtual Reality Room, Media Editing Room, collaborative space with a Microsoft Surface Hub, and large tables with power/data ports. Learn about DSL spaces → Raynor 245 (Large Classroom) Raynor 2nd When not reserved for a course, this room provides study space for up to 30 students. This is an open study space, not for individual or single group use. Raynor 227 (Small Classroom) Raynor 2nd When not reserved for a course, this room provides natural, ambient lighting and computers for student study and use. This is an open study space, not for individual or single group use. Research Carrels Memorial LL-5th There are quiet study carrels located throughout the Memorial Library stacks on the LL, and 2nd to 5th floors available to qualifying faculty or graduate students. Applications to reserve a carrel are available via the above links. Contact the Circulation Desk (414) 288-7555 for more information. Open Study Carrels Memorial LL-5th There are individual study carrels located throughout the Memorial Library stacks on the LL to 5th floors. These carrels are open to anyone while Memorial is open. Memorial Library Stacks Memorial LL-5th There are large tables with power outlets located near the elevators, and smaller tables located throughout the stacks on the LL to 5th floors. Quiet Study Areas Raynor 2nd Up the central stair cases and before the Bridge, the quiet study areas have comfortable chairs, and large tables with power outlets and data ports ideal for individual study. The Bridge Raynor & Memorial 2nd Connecting the Raynor and Memorial Libraries, the Bridge offers comfortable chairs, wall power outlets, large tables, and internet access stations. The Brew @ the Bridge offers coffees, teas, pastries, and other food items Fall and Spring semesters. Brew Hours → Memorial Reading Rooms Memorial 2nd & 4th Past the Memorial Circulation desk and to the right, the Memorial 2nd Floor Reading Room provides large tables with power, comfortable seating, and abundant natural light. A similar Reading Room is on the 4th floor. Both rooms overlook Wisconsin Avenue. Browsing Collection Study Area Raynor 2nd The Browsing Collection Study Area is ideal for collaborative and group study. The space includes comfortable chairs, tables and scattered power outlets. Conference Center Lobby Raynor LL The lobby of the Beaumier Suites Conference Center, just to the right of the enclosed stair case, has comfortable chairs, tables, and power outlets. Conference Center Room D Raynor LL When not used for an event, Room D of the Beaumier Suites Conference Center may be used as a place to study. This is an open study space, not for individual or single group use. Distinct Collections in Raynor Memorial Libraries Special Collections & University Archives The Special Collections and University Archives houses manuscripts, rare books, and MU records including administrative files, publications, photographs, films, and papers of faculty and alumni. Visit Special Collections & Archives → Browsing Books This collection offers a wide range of current fiction, poetry, biography, and popular books on contemporary social issues; they are available for short-term loan (3 weeks.) View Browsing Books → Children's Book Collection The Children's Book Collection, (3rd floor of Memorial Library overlooking the bridge), spans the range of subjects and reading levels from early readers to young adult books. Browse Children's Book Collection → Ciszek Catholic Spirituality The Ciszek Catholic Spirituality is a wide-ranging collection of books and videos. It includes Catholic devotional literature, meditations, prayer books, catechisms, lives of the saints, apologetics, conversion stories, and works on vocation. View Ciszek Catholic Collection → Cujé Milwaukee Music The Cujé Collection consists of music recorded by artists in the Milwaukee area. Materials include compact discs, cassettes, phonodiscs, videos and related items. Learn about the Cujé Music Collection → E-Collections Includes E-Publications (MU’s Institutional Repository), E-Archives (18 digitized collections), E-Books (MU’s Electronic Book Subscriptions), and E-Journals (MU’s Electronic Journal Subscriptions) E-Publications → E-Archives → E-Books → E-Journals → Funding Information Center This collection provides current information to the fund-seeking public (primarily non-profit organizations), and to those doing research on private foundations, philanthropy, and more. Visit the Funding Information Center → Manresa Collection Located on the second level of Raynor, the Manresa Collection is devoted to Christian diversity for exploring Christian spiritual life, including vocation, Christian discipleship, and leadership. Learn about the Manresa Collection → Recorded Literature A collection of spoken-word, long-playing phonograph records containing poetry, drama, and other literary works. View Recorded Literature → Reference Collection The Reference Collection, comprising most of the first floor of Raynor Library, includes such materials as dictionaries, encyclopedias, handbooks, guides, indexing and abstracting services, etc. Used as a starting point for research or for quick look-ups of information, the collection serves all disciplines, from basic to research levels. Video Collection The Libraries house both video and DVD collections as well as providing access to streaming videos. Learn about the Libraries' video collection → Print, Copy, Scan, and Fax The Raynor Memorial Libraries offer self-service printers (PrintWise), copiers, and scanners available for patron use. Cost Per Page Paper size: 8.5 x 11 and 8.5 x 14 (letter / legal) B&W Print/Copy: $0.07 B&W Duplex Print/Copy: $0.10 Color Print/Copy: $0.50 Color Duplex Print/Copy: $0.80 Paper size: 11 x 17 (ledger / tabloid) B&W Print/Copy: $0.14 B&W Duplex Print/Copy: $0.20 Color Print/Copy: $1.00 Color Duplex Print/Copy: $1.60 Scan: Free Fax: Free Payment MarquetteCash: Use a credit/debit card to add money online Visitors may purchase a copy card from the library. See the Circulation Desk for more information. Print from My Laptop Setup PrintWise on your Laptop and print from anywhere on campus Printer, Copier, Scanner Locations Raynor Library 1st floor near the Circulation desk, elevators, and stairs 2nd floor near Current Periodicals and computer area Lower Level in Digital Scholarship Lab next to service desk Memorial Library 2nd floor near Bridge Circulation Desk 2nd floor in the Reading Room Lower Level near the East Elevator Scanning Patrons can email scanned documents to themselves at no charge from the PrintWise machines. PC and Mac workstations with scanners are also available Faxing Students are able to use the University's Enterprise Fax system to send faxes. Enterprise Fax uses email and the item to be faxed must be in an electronic format. Large Format Printing Need a print larger than 11 x 17-inches? Poster-sized printing is available. Submit your poster request to the Digital Scholarship Lab. Submit Poster Request → Learn more about large format printing → Off Campus Access The library provides access to many of its resources off campus. Some may be accessed by simply logging in while others may require the campus VPN. Requirements: Must have a MARQNET Username and Password. Library Login Most library resources can be accessed from off campus simply by logging in when automatically prompted. For most of the library's digital resources, you will be able to go directly to the resource you want to use. You will be directed to a login screen where you will be asked to enter your MARQNET username and password. Library Login → Problems logging in? Please contact the Information Desk at (414) 288-7556. VPN (Virtual Private Network) Some library resources cannot be accessed off campus without using the VPN. Follow the instructions for downloading the VPN (and Duo multi-factor authentication). Connect to the VPN using your MARQNET username and password. Acknowledge the notification from Duo received on your smartphone. Once the notification is acknowledged, the VPN will connect. Go to the library's website and start your research. You will need to reconnect to the VPN anytime you restart your device. Questions about the VPN? Contact ITS Help Desk: (414) 288-7799 or helpdesk@marquette.edu Digital Scholarship and Programs Raynor Memorial Libraries’ digital scholarship services transform the way faculty and students create and share knowledge by helping them explore new digital tools and methodologies. Digital Scholarship Lab The lab space gives students a dedicated environment for experimenting, collaborating, and creating using digital video, graphics, web publishing, and other media. Overview of services: Consulting on digital scholarship, digital pedagogy, digital tools Equipment - Borrow laptops, MacBooks, audio recorders, microphones, cameras, chargers and adapters, and other equipment Software - Macs loaded with Adobe Creative Cloud (25+ programs), Final Cut Pro, etc. Media Editing Room - dedicated room for multimedia creation, audio recording. and editing Virtual Reality Room - space dedicated for simulations and experiences in VR Poster and other large-format printing Poster submission form Digital Programs/Publishing Our digital publishing infrastructure and expertise increase the impact of Marquette research in an increasingly collaborative and data-enriched scholarly environment. Our open-access repository hosts faculty research materials and data provide easy discovery and permanent, stable access around the globe. Our staff are also available to help scholars explore new and emerging publishing options, data management, copyright, and alternative impact metrics. Overview of services: Institutional repository - search-engine friendly, open-access research repository Consulting - open access publishing, data management, copyright, impact metrics Academic social networking support - Marquette-branded scholar profile pages Visit Digital Scholarship and Programs → Borrowing Privileges Undergraduate Books and other material from the general collection are loaned for a six week (42 day) period. Graduate Student Books are loaned for one semester. Faculty/Emeritus Faculty/Staff Books checked out to Faculty or Staff members are due at the end of the 2nd summer session. Faculty Authorized Assistants Faculty members may authorize their graduate assistants to check-out material for them. An Authorized Assistant Form must be signed and returned before such check-outs are permitted. Alumnus/Alumna Books are loaned for four weeks (28 days). Limited to 10 items on user’s account. Courtesy Cards holders/Community Borrowers Books are loaned for four weeks (28 days). Limited to 10 items on user’s account. All items are checked out at the Circulation Desks in Raynor or Memorial Libraries. Reserve items are checked out a the Reserve Desk in the lower level of Raynor. The due date is stamped in the material at check out. There is no limit on the number of items that may be checked out for campus borrowers. All checked out material is subject to recall by another user. Please review the Recall policy on the main Circulation Page. Unique collections may have shorter loan periods: AVM collection (DVD/Video) – 5 day loan-no renewal Browsing collection – 3 week loan-no renewal Children’s collection – 3 week loan Ciszek collection – 3 week loan-no renewal Class Reserves – 2 hour, 4 hour, 1 day, 3 day, 7 day loan periods. No renewals Digital Scholarship Lab – 4 hour, 1 day, 3 day loans. No renewals. Manresa collection – 3 week loan-no renewal Reference collection – 1 week loan unless noted as Library Use Only Visitor Policies Visitors must: Wear their visitor pass at all times. Comply with visitor hours. Guests of MU community Guests accompanied by a valid Marquette ID holder will be admitted to the library after submitting a valid photo ID, which must be left at the registration counter. Guests will be issued a guest pass that must be carried with them at all times. NOTE: Visitor hours apply Marquette Alumni Alumni must show an alumni card and photo ID for entrance. Alumni without a valid Marquette alumni card can have their alumni status verified at the visitor registration counter. Alumni are eligible for on-site access to library resources and limited borrowing privileges. NOTE: Visitor hours apply Visiting the J.R.R. Tolkien Display Individuals interested in viewing the display of J. R. R. Tolkien materials on exhibit in the Special Collections reading room must provide a valid photo ID that will be kept at Raynor’s visitor registration counter. No photography of the J. R. R. Tolkien materials is permitted. Individuals wishing to conduct research with collection materials must make an appointment with the archivist. NOTE: Visitor hours apply Limited Research Passes Individuals with a limited, yet demonstrated research need, can request a one-day guest pass for $5. (PLEASE NOTE: We can accept only cash or checks.) This pass will be issued only after the potential user meets with a librarian and demonstrates a clear research need that can’t be met by other local libraries such as UWM or MPL. A valid photo ID must be left at the counter. If the ID presented is a WI driver’s license, a copy will be made and held at the registration counter. Guests will be issued a pass that they must carry with them at all times. The pass must be returned to library staff to retrieve their ID and will be good for that day only. The university reserves the right to deny the application of any requestor, and access privileges can be revoked by the university at any time. NOTE: Visitor hours apply Annual Research Passes Members of the public with a demonstrated and continuing research need can apply for a library card that will allow on-site access to library resources and limited borrowing privileges (see Courtesy Card Borrowing Privileges for further information). To apply, please see the Annual Research Pass Application. NOTE: Visitor hours apply Admissions & other tours Conferences & public events Directions & Parking WAICU members All Visitor Policies Visitor Hours * Unless otherwise noted, library hours for guests and limited research pass holders are: Mon–Thurs 9 AM - 9 PM Friday 9 AM - 5 PM Saturday Noon - 5 PM Sunday Noon - 9 PM * Hours may vary during holidays, breaks, and summer sessions. Department of Special Collections Hours Mon–Fri By Appointment Only Sat–Sun Closed There is no access for members of the general public. View all visitor policies → Location Raynor Memorial Libraries 1355 W. Wisconsin Ave. Milwaukee, WI 53233 Information Desk: (414) 288-7556 Key Resources Library contacts Library floor plans Borrowing policies Hours Library accounts eMarq (email) CheckMarq Desire2Learn (D2L) Libraries A to Z ABCDEFGHIJKLMNOPQRSTUVWXYZ Problem with this webpage? Report an accessibility problem. To report another problem, please contact: brendan.lenzner@marquette.edu Privacy Policy Legal Disclaimer Non-Discrimination Policy Accessible Technology © 2022 Marquette University Have a suggestion? ©