Skip to main content Skip to primary site menu Skip to primary site search Google Tag Manager Physics Show/Hide About Graduate Undergraduate Research Courses People Events Centers Diversity & Inclusion Committee Resources Highlights Room Reservations Resources During COVID Diversity & Inclusion Mission Statement Our mission is to support and promote equity and diversity in the Physics Department, and generally at Brown. The Department of Physics is committed to creating a safe and welcoming space for all members of our community and to increasing the representation of historically excluded groups at all ranks – undergraduate, graduate, staff, and faculty. We strive for this commitment to be reflected in all our activities, including teaching, research, and service. On this website, you can learn more about our Departmental Diversity and Inclusion Action Plan (DDIAP) and the concrete steps our DDIAP committee and community members are taking toward creating an inclusive and equitable environment. - In keeping with Brown’s long tradition of excellence, the Department of Physics strives to perform research at the frontiers of science while also training the next generation of physicists. We accomplish this most effectively when we draw from the widest possible pool of talent and attract and create physicists diverse not only in race, ethnicity, and gender, but also in the different intersectionalities of identity such as age, religion, disability, sexual orientation, and socioeconomic status. By building a truly inclusive culture, one which bridges these different lived experiences and considers everyone as a partner in moving our educational mission forward, we can attract the best minds from around the world to solve the most fundamental problems of nature. In this way, we can put into practice Brown University’s stated mission of “serving the community, the nation, and the world.” The U.S. Department of Education identifies several groups that continue to have limited participation in higher education due to legacies of oppression and discrimination. Termed “historically underrepresented groups (HUGs)” by the University, these include persons who self-identify as American Indian, Alaskan Native, African American, Hispanic or Latinx, and Native Hawaiian and/or Pacific Islander. In science, technology, engineering, and mathematics (STEM), the U.S. Department of Education also identifies women as a group that is underrepresented at the graduate and faculty levels. Moreover, according to a report made by the American Psychological Association(1), gender, racial and ethnic imbalances are self-perpetuating: would-be scientists receive an implicit message that imbalances are the norm. Because they see no role models among successful physicists, students can’t help but internalize notions that the field has no relevance to them or that they will always be struggling to achieve excellence, which naturally discourages them from pursuing careers in physics. As a department, we are committed to reversing this historical trend and to increasing the representation of women and HUGs in physics. DDIAP Reports The Diversity & Inclusion Action Plan Update Reports are available on the Office of Institutional Equity and Diversity Website. Need Help? If you have an emergency that needs immediate attention contact the Department of Public Safety at 401-863-4111. More emergency resources can be found here. Diversity & Inclusion Committee Resources Highlights Explore Brown University Search Brown Show/Hide Learn More About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life Find A to Z Index People Directory Information for Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Top Destinations Global Brown Watson Institute Graduate School Alpert Medical School School of Public Health School of Engineering Department of Physics Department of Physics Brown University Box 1843 182 Hope Street Providence, RI 02912 Phone: 401-863-2641 Fax: 401-863-2024 Email [email protected] Twitter Twitter Facebook Facebook Make a Gift Giving to Brown Brown University Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-1000 Maps & Directions / Contact Us / Accessibility © 2022 Brown University Connect: [email protected] Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram iTunes U LinkedIn SnapChat