Skip to main content Top Bar PENN SUSTAINABILITY HOME News Contact View Upcoming Events » Main navigation Our Commitment Overview President's Message About Penn Sustainability Our Plan Our History Our Team Annual Progress Reports STARS Plan Videos Initiatives Overview Learning Sustainability Conserving Energy Designing Green Minimizing Waste Reducing Emissions Purchasing Practices Eating Local Wellness Partners Overview Academic Centers Schools and Centers Student Groups Morris Arboretum Resources Overview FAQs Guides & Manuals Tours and Maps Participate Overview Students Staff and Faculty Penn Community Reducing Emissions Sustainable Transportation Penn Transit’s rich portfolio of programs and initiatives have helped the University increase the number of staff and faculty choosing sustainable commuting options while continuing to maintain a safe and accessible campus. These sustainability initiatives will continue to transition from focusing primarily on reducing single-occupancy vehicles to a more holistic approach to transportation. The recent expansion of resources for cyclists include additional bike racks, cycling maps, expansion of Indego bike share stations, bike repair stations, as well as a cycling commuter reimbursement program launched in 2017. The next five years will continue to see the promotion of more sustainable transportation programs; including cycling, car and vanpooling, and public transit commuter benefits. At the same time, Penn Transportation and Parking will look to improve the energy efficiency of parking facilities and work to minimize the environmental impacts of the Penn Transit fleet. Penn Sustainability has prepared also a Low Emissions Vehicle Purchasing Guide, found on our Resources -- Guides and Manuals section of the website. Walking Penn is a pedestrian friendly environment. Learn More Bicycling The University of Pennsylvania promotes bicycling as a safe, healthy, and environmentally responsible means of transportation. Learn More Penn Transit Services Penn Transit Services, the University operated transportation system, provides shuttles and buses that offer safe and efficient travel to, from and around campus. Learn More Parking Penn Parking Services works hard to provide adequate and sustainable parking facilities for the purposes of commuters. Learn More Commuting Options The University supports a number of programs to encourage faculty, staff, students and visitors to utilize sustainable modes of transportation. Learn More Ride Sharing Although it is easy to get around Penn and Philadelphia on foot, by bike or using a variety of public transit options, there are still times when a car comes in handy. Learn More Penn Sustainability 3101 Walnut Street Philadelphia, PA 19104 sustainability@upenn.edu Social Links Our Committment Penn's 2042 Carbon Neutrality Goal Power Purchase Agreement: A 25-Year Commitment The Plan The University of Pennsylvania's Climate and Sustainability Action Plan Penn Sustainability ENewsletter Subscribe to our E-Newsletter » Program Highlights Student Eco-Reps Green Fund Staff and Faculty Eco-Reps Green Labs Footer Report Accessibility Issues and Get Help Disclaimer Copyright Information Privacy Policy © 2022 University of Pennsylvania Website Design and Programming: 4x3, LLC