Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. UC News UC News right arrow down arrow UC News Search Topics right arrow down arrow UC Answers #UCtheGood In The News Arts & Culture Science & Tech International Athletics Health College Bound Impact right arrow down arrow #UCtheGood Insights Diversity Experience-Based Learning Next Lives Here Bicentennial COVID-19 Student Experience Colleges right arrow down arrow College of Allied Health Sciences College of Arts & Sciences College of Business Blue Ash College Clermont College College-Conservatory of Music College of Design, Architecture, Art, and Planning College of Education, Criminal Justice, & Human Services College of Engineering and Applied Science Graduate School College of Law College of Medicine College of Nursing College of Pharmacy Units right arrow down arrow Academic Health Center Admissions Alumni Association Board of Trustees Campus Services Equity and Inclusion Hoxworth Human Resources IT@UC Libraries Office of Innovation Office of Research President's Office Provost Public Safety Student Affairs UC Foundation Veteran's Affairs Continuing Education Media Contacts Featured News UC names chief digital officer May 19, 2022 UC President Neville Pinto announces hiring of Bharath Prabhakaran to guide the University of Cincinnati’s digital transformation. University of Cincinnati names graduate school dean May 10, 2022 Rose Marie Ward will serve as vice provost and dean of the Graduate School How a compound becomes a drug May 9, 2022 Over decades of ups and downs, the hard work of University of Cincinnati alumnus John Drach paid off when the FDA approved a new drug he helped develop to treat cytomegalovirus. 1 2 Next › Last » Debug Query for this Latest News Keyword topics Select topics Answers Arts & Culture Athletics Bicentennial College bound COVID-19 Diversity Entrepreneurship Experience-based Learning Faculty Staff Health Impact In The News Insights International Must Read Next Lives Here Science & Tech Student Experience Thought Leadership colleges Select colleges College of Arts and Sciences Blue Ash College College of Allied Health Sciences College-Conservatory of Music College of Engineering and Applied Science College of Education, Criminal Justice, & Human Services Clermont College Lindner College of Business College of Design, Architecture, Art, and Planning Graduate School College of Law College of Medicine College of Nursing Online College of Pharmacy Clear All Filters {{facet.display}} remove {{facet.display}} remove {{facet.display}} remove {{facet.display}} remove UC names chief digital officer May 19, 2022 UC President Neville Pinto announces hiring of Bharath Prabhakaran to guide the University of Cincinnati’s digital transformation. University of Cincinnati names graduate school dean May 10, 2022 Rose Marie Ward will serve as vice provost and dean of the Graduate School How a compound becomes a drug May 9, 2022 Over decades of ups and downs, the hard work of University of Cincinnati alumnus John Drach paid off when the FDA approved a new drug he helped develop to treat cytomegalovirus. Local 12: Pharmacies adjusting hours due to staffing issues April 29, 2022 The University of Cincinnati's Jill Boone was featured in a Local 12 story on the impact of staffing issues at local pharmacies. The Power of Vision: 5 Years of Momentum April 28, 2022 The last five years rank among UC’s best. Take a look at some of our recent accomplishments and proudest moments since President G. Pinto began his term as UC’s 30th President. UC to celebrate record-breaking class at spring commencement April 25, 2022 The University of Cincinnati will recognize a record 7,080 graduates at its spring commencement during four ceremonies on Friday and Saturday at Fifth Third Arena. Encouraging a more inclusive workforce April 19, 2022 The University of Cincinnati James L. Winkle College of Pharmacy, UC Medical Center and Walgreens are launching CincyUp, a first-of-its-kind visiting Advanced Pharmacy Practice Experience (APPE) pilot program for underrepresented pharmacy students. President Pinto celebrates talented UC community during State of... April 15, 2022 Faculty, staff and students from UC gathered online and inside Probasco Auditorium for President Neville G. Pinto's April 14 State of the University Address. HuffPost: Things you didn't know pharmacists could help with March 23, 2022 The University of Cincinnati's Michael Hegener, PharmD, was featured in a HuffPost article about different health issues pharmacists can help patients with beyond filling prescriptions. UC Online partners with City of Cincinnati to advance employee... March 14, 2022 The University of Cincinnati and City of Cincinnati partner to offer city employees, their spouses, and dependents access to UC’s online degree programs at a reduced cost in the form of scholarships. 55KRC: Grants aid UC research of pediatric brain tumors March 14, 2022 55KRC featured the University of Cincinnati's Dr. Timothy Phoenix on the Simply Medicine program, discussing his research into treatments for diffuse midline glioma, a deadly pediatric brain tumor. Pain and prejudice March 10, 2022 The University of Cincinnati's Daniel Arendt, PharmD, examines discriminatory policies throughout the history of U.S. drug policy and how they have led to the stigmatization of patients suffering from painful conditions as "drug seekers." Direct Industry: The move to eco-friendly cosmetics February 28, 2022 Direct Industry Magazine featured the University of Cincinnati's Dr. KP Ananth in an article about the cosmetics industry's move towards making more eco-friendly products. Law & Crime: Medical uses and dosages of fentanyl February 23, 2022 The University of Cincinnati's Dr. Dan Arendt was featured in a Law & Crime television segment on the topic of medical uses of fentanyl. Medical Xpress: Researchers identify new target to treat... February 4, 2022 Medical Xpress highlighted the work of the University of Cincinnati's Timothy Phoenix and his colleagues who have identified the role of a key gene linked to pediatric diffuse midline gliomas, a deadly brain tumor. Load More Debug Query for this University of Cincinnati 2600 Clifton Ave. Cincinnati, OH 45220 513-556-0000 UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati University of Cincinnati 2600 Clifton Ave. Cincinnati, OH 45220 513-556-0000 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top