Skip to main content Skip to primary site menu Skip to primary site search Google Tag Manager For Faculty and Staff For Alumni For Students For Potential Students Biomed A-Z People Directory Department of Ecology, Evolution and Organismal Biology Show/Hide Home About Us Anatomical Gift Program EEB Internal Intranet Facilities Herbarium Plant Environmental Center People Graduate Education Undergraduate Education News Plant Environmental Center The Plant Environmental Center at Brown University is located atop the IBES building at 85 Waterman Street. The facility is comprised of six computer controlled research greenhouses totaling approximately 5,000 square feet. These greenhouses are used for research experiments, as well as to house various plant collections used to support biological science classes. In addition, this rooftop space includes an 1800 square foot conservatory open year around. The collection in the conservatory includes many plant families, including a diverse collection of Cycads, Orchids, Aroids, and many plants from the Amazon region. Many of these plants have medicinal and ceremonial uses and are part of our Ethnobotanical collection. The greenhouse facility also consists of a head house, classroom, and plant growth chamber laboratory. The plant growth laboratory consists of eight E7/2 Conviron plant growth chamber units, as well as two eighty square foot walk-in chambers and one eighty square foot cold room. These units are primarily used by graduate students and faculty performing research with very specific cultural requirements that cannot be maintained in the greenhouses. Visiting the Conservatory Address: 85 Waterman Street Providence, RI 02912 (Due to Covid-19, all non-essential visitors and guests are not currently allowed on campus, click here for more information). The Conservatory is open to the public Monday through Friday from 8:30 AM to 3:00 PM, special circumstances not withstanding. School groups and garden club tours must be arranged in advance. Artists, gardeners, tinkerers, dreamers, readers, thinkers and general plant lovers are encouraged to visit. Contact: Nicholas Vasques, Research Greenhouse Manager, 401-863-3077 [email protected] Facilities Herbarium Plant Environmental Center Brown Biology and Medicine Search Brown Show/Hide Learn More About Warren Alpert Medical School Program in Biology Research Campus Life Find A to Z Index People Directory Information for Students Faculty and Staff Potential Students Alumni The Department of Ecology, Evolution, and Organismal Biology The Department of Ecology, Evolution, and Organismal Biology Brown University Box G-W 80 Waterman Street Providence, RI 02912 Phone: 401-863-2100 Fax: 401-863-2166 Twitter Twitter Giving to Brown Division of Biology and Medicine Brown University Box G-A1, Providence, RI 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-3330 Maps / Contact Us © 2022 Brown University Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram LinkedIn SnapChat