Skip to main content Search Utility navigation News Events Media Contacts Contact Main navigation People Current Faculty Emeritus Faculty Associated Faculty Graduate students Lecturers, Postdocs, Visitors Staff Undergraduate Majoring in Politics Courses Resources Graduate Admissions & Financial Support Courses Plan of Study Joint Degree Program in Social Policy Job Placement Research Areas of Study American Politics Comparative Politics International Relations Formal Theory & Quantitative Methods Political Economy Political Theory Public Law Race, Ethnicity and Identity Centers & Programs About Why Princeton Politics Diversity & Inclusion Statement History Department Awards Profiles Homepage Homepage Three Politics '22 concentrators and two alumni receive Fulbright awards Body This cycle, an impressive five Politics concentrators were named Fulbright grantees. Three of the five–Scarlett McNulty, Rebecca Han, and Hanying Jiang–graduated last month. Recipients of Fulbright’s English Teaching Assistant award, all will spend the next year in classrooms abroad to provide assistance to the local English teachers. Four students receive George Kateb Preceptor Award Body The George Kateb Preceptor Award is given annually to recognize the best graduate student preceptors in the Department of Politics. This year, students Ian Walling, Tiffany Simon, Sonya Chen, and María José Urzúa Valverde received the award. Melissa Lane wins Stanley Kelley Award for Excellence in Teaching Award Body Melissa Lane, a political theorist specializing in ancient political thought, has been awarded the Department's annual teaching prize. Nugent, scholar of the Middle East, to join Princeton Politics Body Elizabeth Nugent will join the Princeton University Department of Politics this fall as an assistant professor. READ MORE Fernanda Romo Herrera Ibarrola wins Labouisse Prize Body Politics concentrator Fernanda Romo Herrera Ibarrola is one of five seniors awarded the Labouisse Prize for international civic engagement projects in 2022. She will work in the Corner Institute, a rural community organization in Malinalco, Mexico, to expand its grassroots transparency initiative to remote rural districts. Congratulations, Fernanda! Layna Mosley to serve as co-editor of International Organization Body Layna Mosley will serve as the next co-editor-in-chief of International Organization, a journal covering the field of international affairs, beginning July 1, 2022. Matias Iaryczower awarded funding from Schmidt DataX Fund for project on the interplay of money and politics Body Iaryczower's is one of ten interdisciplinary research projects that have won funding from Princeton University’s Schmidt DataX Fund with the goal of spreading and deepening the use of artificial intelligence and machine learning across campus to accelerate discovery. Jonathan Mummolo receives funding from Microsoft to conduct research on police body-worn cameras Body Microsoft has awarded $250,000 in funding to professor Jonathan Mummolo and a team of fellow social scientists to fund the development of a novel system to computationally analyze police body-worn camera (BWC) footage. LaFleur Stephens-Dougan wins 2021 David O. Sears Best Book on Mass Politics Award Body LaFleur Stephens-Dougan has won the 2021 David O. Sears Best Book on Mass Politics Award from the International Society for Political Psychology for her book "Race to the Bottom: How Racial Appeals Work in American Politics." Ismail White wins APSA book prize Body White and his co-author Chryl Laird (Bowdoin College) have won the APSA prize for the best book on government, politics, or international affairs for their book "Steadfast Democrats: How Social Forces Shape Black Political Behavior." Princeton University is actively monitoring the situation around coronavirus (Covid-19) and the evolving guidance from government and health authorities, in keeping with our commitment to ensure the health and safety of all members of the University community. The latest information and resources for members of the Politics Department is available on the University's COVID-19 page. A vibrant, intellectually diverse community Undergraduate Graduate Meet the Faculty Recent News June 1, 2022 Three Politics '22 concentrators and two alumni receive Fulbright awards May 26, 2022 Paul Baumgardner wins Walter Dean Burnham Dissertation Award May 13, 2022 Four students receive George Kateb Preceptor Award The George Kateb Preceptor Award is given annually to recognize the best graduate student preceptors in the Department of Politics. This year, students Ian Walling, Tiffany Simon, Sonya Chen, and May 12, 2022 Nancy Bermeo elected to Academy of Arts and Sciences Bermeo is a professor of politics, emeritus, and a Princeton Institute for International and Regional Studies senior scholar. She writes on the causes and consequences of political mobilization and regime All News Events How are you involved with first-gen students at Princeton? Until four or five years ago, there wasn’t really any way for me to identify first-generation students or for them to identify me. Then the University set up a series of dinners to get first-gen faculty and students together. These are terrific events, and I attend whenever I can. I really enjoy hearing the students’ stories and sharing mine. Nolan McCarty What do you most enjoy about your work in Politics? I enjoy my job as manager in the Department of Politics because my staff and I support the mission of the University so directly. It's particularly gratifying when the people we support achieve milestones in their own careers — like when a graduate student defends her dissertation or a junior faculty member is granted tenure. Amanda Kastern Why did you choose to major in Politics? I chose Politics because it gave me the flexibility to focus the bulk of my academic coursework into a specific field, which for me was Middle Eastern politics. I was able to take several classes in the history, Near Eastern Studies, and religion departments which helped me hone my knowledge base while still maintaining a Politics core. Jordan Reimer '08 What advice would you offer a current Politics concentrator who will soon be on the job market? View the next few years as a time of experiential learning. The fact is, there is probably very little correlation between what people do when they are 22, and what they do when they are 52. This should be liberating! Get off the “5-year-plan” mentality, and find something to do that challenges you. Learn about new people and places. Don’t worry about the career quite yet, there is plenty of time for that. Rory Truex Upon graduating Princeton with an A.B. in Politics, what did you do? After graduating, I spent a year working for the International Rescue Committee in Kenya as a Princeton in Africa fellow. It was an interesting time to be in Kenya, especially working for an organization that mainly assists refugees - Kenya’s refugee policy was changing, and I learned a lot from observing how NGOs responded. Maya Gainer '13 Why did you choose to major in Politics? I think the most decisive factor was taking Civil Liberties and American Constitutional Interpretation with Robert George during my freshman spring and sophomore fall semesters, respectively. I found those courses completely engrossing, and I wanted to continue to think about the problems and issues raised in class. I also wanted to have a chance to continue working with Professor George, who challenged me intellectually in a way I had never experienced before. Joel Alicea '10 What motivated you to pursue a career in higher education? Princeton is a very stimulating environment to be in every day, and my favorite part is the interactions I have with students. As an undergraduate at Penn State, I had a great rapport with my academic adviser, Bernie Bronstein, whose assistance I sought frequently. His guidance made my experience that much smoother and ultimately made me one day want to become a ‘Bernie’ for others. This job has allowed me to serve in the same capacity with many students, which is very enriching. Gayle Brodsky Why did you choose to major in Politics? As a young scholar, I was fascinated with questions of why. Why do some nations erupt into civil strife? Why are religion and ethnicity salient (and politicized) in some nations? Why are some nations stricken by the maladies of poor governance? The Politics department provided me with the theoretical foundation and analytical tools to best answer these, and many other, questions. Karen Okigbo '09 What advice would you offer a prospective student who is considering Politics as their major? Politics is unique in how well it complements so many other fields. Some easy examples are thinking about area studies and politics and becoming a regional specialist, but there are many more opportunities. Pair computer science with politics – big data is revolutionizing the way political campaigns run in the developed world. Or pair it with finance – the interplay of government and Wall Street is only going to be even stronger. James Williamson '07 What motivated you to choose a career in the media? I have the Politics Department to thank for my career thus far in news. If it weren’t for the Mass Media and American Politics course I took during my freshman spring, I never would have set out on this journey. Stephanie Rigizadeh '15 All Profiles Department of Politics 001 Fisher Hall, Princeton, NJ 08544-1012 T (609) 258-4760 F (609) 258-1110 Accessibility © 2022 The Trustees of Princeton University Social Media Facebook Instragram Twitter