Skip to main content Skip to main navigation Spiritual Life Menu Who We Are Meet the University Chaplain Staff Dr. Burt Burleson Rebecca Kennedy John Maurer Dr. Erin Moniz Dr. Charles Ramsey The Bobo Spiritual Life Center Building Reservation Application What We Do Pastoral Care Meeting with a Chaplain Notifying Professors of a Crisis Getting Direction for your Spiritual Life Dealing with Grief and Loss How to Support Those Who are Grieving Campus Resources Spiritual Practices Chapel Global Missions Local Ministries Sports Ministry Faith & Deliberation The Good Neighbor Initiative Students Get Involved Religious Organizations Baptist Student Ministries Needing Prayer or Care? Chapel Information Find a Church Local Churches Transportation To Church Class of 2025 Class Hymn Faculty/Staff Notifications from the Chaplain's Office Reporting a Death in the Community Ministering to Your Staff Prayer Services & Worship Spiritual Direction Prayer Services for your Department Be a Missions Team Leader News FAQ Spiritual Life The Office of Spiritual Life offers programs, persons, and resources to nurture theological depth, spiritual wholeness, and missional living in students, faculty, and staff. Explore What We Do Pastoral Care Questions need asking. Directions need discerning. Wounds need healing. Our chaplains at the Spiritual Life Center and residence halls are available to offer the compassionate care and guidance you need. Read More Chapel Nurture your faith and deepen your understanding of spiritually formative practices of the Christian tradition thorough worship, witness, wisdom, and work of the Church. Read More Global Missions Grow, love, and serve while immersing yourself in different cultures, and integrating your faith, service, and learning in more than 20 locations worldwide. Read More Local Ministries Join an Urban Mission or Youth Ministry team to engage, love, and serve the greater Waco community by partnering with local organizations and ministries. Read More Faith & Deliberation Resources and programs to equip students, faith communities, and churches to engage in deliberative dialogue across difference. Read More The Good Neighbor Initiative The Good Neighbor Initiative is comprised of projects and programs that focus on our commitment to love God, and love our neighbor, while learning how to be a good neighbor. Read More Online Care Resources Resources for Students Resources for Faculty & Staff Mindfulness News Read More News Oct. 7, 2021 Hurricane Ida Relief Mission Team Apps Open Dedicate your Fall Break to serving communities impacted by Hurricane Ida. Read More Sep. 20, 2021 Baylor Missions Week Kicks Off Sept. 27, 2021, Hosting 35+ Organizations Baylor Missions Week 2021 kicks off Monday, Sept. 27, 2021 with more than 35 organizations presenting opportunities to grow, love, and serve in Waco and the world. Read More Sep. 13, 2021 Non-profit organizations, charities, food trucks invited to inaugural Love Local Fest at Baylor University Local non-profit organizations, charities, community associations, and food trucks are invited to to participate in the inaugural Love Local Fest at Baylor University on Wednesday, Sept. 29, 2021. Read More Sep. 1, 2021 First Step Service Aids G.W. Carver Disaster Relief, Local Non-Profits This Fall Baylor University led the initiative to serve G.W Carver Middle School after a devastating fire that that burned through the building. Read More Events See More Events Baylor Spiritual Life Corner of 5th & Speight Street 500 Speight Street Waco, TX 76798 (254) 710-3517 Spiritual_Life@baylor.edu Baylor Chapel Pastoral Care Missions & Public Life Baylor Student Life General Information Colleges, Schools, Libraries & Research Admissions Administration Gateways For... About Baylor Anonymous Reporting Athletics Ask Baylor Bookstore Calendar Campus Map Directory Give Light Give to Baylor Illuminate Mental Health Resources News Pro Futuris Report It Search Social Media Title IX Baylor Libraries College of Arts & Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work George W. Truett Theological Seminary Graduate School Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Louise Herrington School of Nursing Research at Baylor University Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Engineering & Computer Science School of Music More Academics Undergraduate Admissions goBAYLOR Graduate Admissions Baylor Law School Admissions Social Work Graduate Programs George W. Truett Theological Seminary Admissions Online Graduate Professional Education Virtual Tour Visit Campus Annual Fire Safety and Security Notice Athletics Human Resources Marketing and Communications Office of General Counsel Office of the President Office of the Provost Operations, Finance & Administration Senior Administration Student Life University Advancement Baylor Alumni Faculty & Staff Online Graduate Professional Education Parents Prospective Faculty & Staff Prospective Students Students Copyright © Baylor® University. All rights reserved. Legal Disclosures. Baylor University • Waco, Texas 76798 • 1-800-229-5678 Who We Are Meet the University Chaplain Staff Dr. Burt Burleson Rebecca Kennedy John Maurer Dr. Erin Moniz Dr. Charles Ramsey The Bobo Spiritual Life Center Building Reservation Application What We Do Pastoral Care Meeting with a Chaplain Notifying Professors of a Crisis Getting Direction for your Spiritual Life Dealing with Grief and Loss Spiritual Practices Chapel Global Missions Local Ministries Sports Ministry Faith & Deliberation The Good Neighbor Initiative Students Get Involved Religious Organizations Baptist Student Ministries Needing Prayer or Care? Chapel Information Find a Church Local Churches Transportation To Church Class of 2025 Class Hymn Faculty/Staff Notifications from the Chaplain's Office Reporting a Death in the Community Ministering to Your Staff Prayer Services & Worship Spiritual Direction Prayer Services for your Department Be a Missions Team Leader News FAQ