Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Finance Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Finance Topics Systems Training Forms & Documents Policies About Buying and Paying Travel and Expense Accounting Operations Payroll Tax and Unclaimed Property Banking and Cash Management Audit and Risk Management Budgets Sponsored Projects: Post-Award Financial Administration International Operations Investments Advisory Committee on Socially Responsible Investing Log Into ARC Log Into Concur About This Site Finance Announcements Finance Departments Careers with Columbia Finance EVP of Finance and Information Technology Financial Reports Organizational Charts Service Center Columbia Finance You are here: Home About About This Site About This Site Welcome to the Finance website, where you can find resources, tools, and information related to your Finance needs at Columbia University. This website is organized both by functional topics and business unit responsibilities. Included below is an overview of how information is organized throughout the site. Finance Topics Layout Explained Below you will find an overview of how the department-based website content has been organized under topic-based pages. The groupings listed below can be found under the menu item, Finance Topics. These topics pages may combine information from multiple related departments. shopping-cart icon Buying and Paying Procurement Services can be found under the topic of Buying and Paying. This page includes content from the following departments: Accounts Payable Procurement Card (P-Card) Purchasing Vendor Management plane icon Travel and Expense Travel and Business Expense related information, including booking travel and creating an expense report in Concur (Columbia's travel and expense management system), can be found under the topic of Travel and Expense. calculator icon Accounting Operations Financial Reporting and Operations can be found under the topic of Accounting Operations. This page includes content from the following departments: Financial Reporting and Operations Endowment and Gift Administration and Compliance dollar icon Payroll Payroll related content can simply be found under the topic of Payroll. Its respective business unit is also named Payroll. percent icon Tax and Unclaimed Property Tax, and Unclaimed Property can be found combined under the topic of Tax and Unclaimed Property. This page includes content from the following departments: Tax Unclaimed Property credit-card icon Banking and Cash Management Global Treasury Operations can be found combined under the topic of Banking and Cash Management. This page includes content from Global Treasury Operations only. umbrella icon Audit and Risk Management Internal Audit and Insurance and Risk Management can be found combined under the topic of Audit and Risk Management. This page includes content from the following departments: Office of Internal Audit Insurance and Risk Management pie-chart icon Budgets Budget related content can simply be found under the topic of Budgets. Its respective business unit is the Office of Management and Budget. flask icon Sponsored Projects: Post-Award Administration Sponsored Projects Finance and Effort Reporting can be found under the topic Sponsored Projects: Post-Award Financial Administration. This page includes content from the following departments: Documenting Personnel Costs (Effort Reporting) Sponsored Projects Finance globe icon International Operations Global Support related content can simply be found under the topic of International Operations. Its respective business unit is also International Operations. Finance Departments Explained Each department manages its own Department page, which contains information specific to its area while also linking back to its respective Topics page family. Aside from Topics pages, users seeking information can also visit individual Finance Department pages, which only contain content specific to each department (and exclude other related functions). Visit Finance Departments TRAINING RESOURCES FOR WEBSITE EDITORS Visit the Editing on the Finance Website Job Aid Columbia Finance615 West 131st Street, Studebaker Building · New York, NY 10027 Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close