Skip to main content Temple University Explore Temple’s Schools and Colleges Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Support Temple Temple University Search Site Search Full Menu Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees President History & Traditions Temple Health News & Media Offices Public Information Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Development Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Libraries Oral Health Sciences MS You are here Home Academics Degrees and Programs Oral Health Sciences MS Apply Request More Info Oral Health Sciences MS Admissions Careers, Internships & Opportunities Facilities, Laboratories & Research Required Courses Scholarships & Financial Aid Master of Science in Oral Health Sciences Pursue advanced study and research in the scientific field of oral health with the Master of Science in Oral Health Sciences in the Kornberg School of Dentistry at Temple University. Students in this rigorous, 40-credit master’s program gain expertise in oral and craniofacial structures and their function in health and disease, as well as the application of modern biological principles and research techniques in the diagnosis, treatment and prevention of oral and craniofacial diseases and anomalies. Through the program, you will study the structure, development and function of oral tissues; their interrelationships; and their connections to other organ systems. Students become advanced clinical scholars through the interdisciplinary structure of the curriculum, which focuses on multiple dental and biomedical science disciplines in oral health including anatomy, microbiology, neurophysiology of pain, oral microbiomes, pharmacology, physiology and regenerative medicine, with a particular emphasis on how these areas relate to oral health and disease. You will also gain graduate-level training and experience in contemporary laboratory techniques and research methodology and technology, which is needed to pursue careers in academia or industry. Research areas include advanced general dentistry; clinical fields such as endodontology, periodontics and oral implantology, orthodontics, and dental public health; oral microbiology and immunology; periodontal and craniofacial regeneration; and pulp biology; among many others. The school’s humanistic approach to patient care and its location in North Philadelphia provide students in clinical tracks with a diverse patient population. Because the program offers both clinical and nonclinical tracks, those who are not enrolled in an advanced training certificate program at Kornberg can choose courses offered across all dental specialty programs and disciplines. Each track requires the same minimum of 40 credits of coursework, and all students complete a self-directed original academic research project. Oral Health Sciences MS Tracks You will have the flexibility to complete either clinical or nonclinical training through one of the following tracks. The Clinical Internship track is a stand-alone program for students who are not enrolled in an advanced training certificate program in the Kornberg School of Dentistry, but who wish to broaden their understanding of clinical dentistry. The completion of a dental degree prior to admission into the MS program is required for the Clinical Internship track. The Nonclinical Internship track is a stand-alone program for students with or without a dental degree who have an interest in advanced master's-level education in oral health sciences. This track does not include clinical courses. Applicants are not required to have previous education in dentistry for admission into the Nonclinical Internship track. The Clinical Specialty track is tailored for postgraduate students currently enrolled in a Commission on Dental Accreditation-accredited advanced training certificate program in the Kornberg School of Dentistry. Coursework in students' postgraduate certificate programs count toward the required 40 credits for the Oral Health Sciences MS degree. Learn more about the Oral Health Sciences MS tracks. Classes & Curriculum The 40-credit Oral Health Sciences MS curriculum is interdisciplinary, crossing traditional department boundaries of basic biomedical sciences such as anatomy, microbiology, pharmacology and physiology. Students not enrolled in an advanced training certificate program may choose to earn the Oral Health Sciences MS degree on either a full- or part-time basis. Students enrolled in a Commission on Dental Accreditation-accredited advanced training certificate program at the Kornberg School of Dentistry earn the degree on a full-time basis. Students who are not enrolled in a specialty certificate program can choose course offerings across all dental specialty programs and disciplines in the Kornberg School of Dentistry. All students in the Oral Health Sciences MS complete required core courses comprising 24 credits. The remaining credits are earned in the advanced training certificate program, or in the Clinical Internship or Nonclinical tracks. Core courses you will take during your studies include Advanced Oral and Maxillofacial Radiology, Introduction to Evidence-based Dentistry, Molecular Oral and Craniofacial Biology, Oral Microbiology and Immunology, and Research Methodology and Study Design. Learn more about Oral Health Sciences MS courses. Related Professional Degrees Dentistry DMD Related Graduate Certificates Advanced Education in General Dentistry Dental Public Health Endodontics Oral and Maxillofacial Surgery Orthodontics Periodontics Tuition & Fees In keeping with Temple’s commitment to access and affordability, this Master of Science in Oral Health Sciences offers a competitive level of tuition with multiple opportunities for financial support. Tuition rates are set annually by the university and are affected by multiple factors, including program degree level (undergraduate or graduate), course load (full- or part-time), in-state or out-of-state residency, and more. These tuition costs apply to the 2021–2022 academic year. Pennsylvania resident: $1,421.00 per credit Out-of-state: $1,421.00 per credit Learn more about our tuition and fees. Program Contact Chukwuebuka Ogwo is the program director for the Oral Health Sciences MS. Phone: 215-707-7062 Email: chukwuebuka.ogwo@temple.edu Theresa White is the director of graduate programs. Phone: 215-707-3305 email: ksodgrad@temple.edu Accreditation The programs in dental education, endodontics, orthodontics and dentofacial orthopedics, and periodontics are accredited by the Commission on Dental Accreditation and have been granted the accreditation status of “approval without reporting requirements,” respectively. The commission is a specialized accrediting body recognized by the U.S. Department of Education. The Commission on Dental Accreditation can be contacted at 312-440-4653 or at 211 E. Chicago Ave., Chicago, IL 60611. The commission’s web address is ada.org/en/coda. DN-OHSC-MS Additional Program Information School/College Site View Program Details Go back to AcademicsMore in Oral Health Sciences MS Admissions Careers, Internships & Opportunities Facilities, Laboratories & Research Required Courses Scholarships & Financial Aid Apply Request More Info Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Calendar Policies Social Media TUportal TUmail Accessibility Careers at Temple Safety & Emergency Information Ethics & Compliance Privacy Statement Professional Licensure Disclosures Follow Temple University Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community. Apply Request More Info