Skip to main content Menu Resources Home Admissions Campus Life Academics Visit Outreach Research About Apply or Give Apply Now Make a Gift Summer Session Get Ahead. Studying as a Visiting Student Payment Deadline, Tuition and Fees Summer Financial Aid Options Summer Start Program Every summer, Clemson University students get a head start on classes, the completion of their degree and, eventually, the start of their dream job. We hope you will utilize this website to find the information you need for a successful and productive summer. Registration opens on April 11 for Summer Session at Clemson. For more than five years, our Summer Session has offered more than half the available courses digitally. This summer, our professors have everything planned out to continue to offer engaging online classes and some face-to-face classes. No matter your major, Summer Session has a class (or classes) that will give you a head start and meet your academic needs as you enter the Fall semester. More than ever, Summer Session offers the chance to take specialized courses tailored to your academic interests and needs. (Note: Summer courses, fees and housing choices will be updated for 2022 as they become available.) Look up Summer Session Classes Register for Classes (Login Required) Summer Session Dates Summer 2022 May 17 - August 8 First Summer 2022 May 17 - June 24 Second Summer 2022 June 29 - August 8 Summer Minimester A 2022 May 17 - June 6 Summer Minimester B 2022 June 7 - June 27 Summer Minimester C 2022 June 28 - July 18 Summer Minimester D 2022 July 20 - August 8 Home Related Links Summer Housing Sign-up Creative Inquiry Internship Programs College of Agriculture, Forestry and Life Sciences College of Architecture, Arts and Humanities College of Behavioral, Social and Health Sciences The Wilbur O. and Ann Powers College of Business College of Education College of Engineering, Computing and Applied Sciences College of Science Questions? summersession@clemson.edu Home Admissions Campus Life Academics Visit Outreach Research About Apply To Clemson Undergraduate Graduate Professional Online Education Employment Opportunities Policy/Terms of Use Text Version Web Accessibility Ethics/Safety Hotline Privacy Policy Site Information Copyright © 2022 Clemson University Clemson, South Carolina 29634 864-656-3311 Contact Clemson Stories for the Clemson Family Clemson University on Facebook Clemson University on Twitter Clemson University on LinkedIn Clemson University on Flickr Clemson University on Instagram