Skip to main content Skip to main content Prospective Students Current Students Alumni More Faculty/Staff News Media Parents Skip to main content Apply Apply Give Give Contact Us Contact Us Follow Us Follow Us Facebook Follow Us Google+ Follow Us Twitter Follow Us LinkedIn Follow Us Tumblr Follow Us YouTube Follow Us Instagram Follow Us Social Stream Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. Navigate Search Skip to main content CIQ About Resources News News Poolside Musings Quick Tips for creating a culturally intelligent classroom for your international students What Yale tells us about race on college campuses ☰ The Cultural Intelligence Initiative@SMU About the Office of Diversity & Inclusion The Cultural Intelligence Initiative at SMU About About Senior Advisor to the Provost for The Campus Cultural Intelligence Initiative, Dr. Maria Dixon Hall explains why CIQ@SMU is important to the future of SMU. If the video below is not showing, please click here. CIQ:Learn CIQ@SMU serves as an educational resource to the entire campus. Providing opportunities for faculty, staff, and students to learn and successfully implement the principles of cultural intelligence in the daily lives, we create workshops, resources, non-credit bearing courses for campus and individual use. CIQ:Consult CIQ@SMU works with academic and student leaders to identify opportunities to incorporate and enhance cultural intelligence in their organizational practices and leadership development. CIQ-Communicate CIQ@SMU provides resources and information from the emerging research and best practices from business, theology, social advocacy, politics, and the arts to demonstrate the transformative impact that cultural intelligence can have as a tool of personal and professional development. Apply Visit School Cox School of Business Dedman College of Humanities and Sciences Dedman School of Law Lyle School of Engineering Meadows School of the Arts Moody School of Graduate and Advanced Studies Perkins School of Theology Simmons School of Education and Human Development Explore SMU Magazine Academic Calendar Events Calendar Guildhall Continuing and Professional Education Athletics Employment at SMU Campus Reporting a Bias Incident Report Sexual Misconduct Emergency Preparedness Student Life George W. Bush Presidential Center SMU Libraries Meadows Museum Tate Lecture Series (214) 768-3393 Maps and Directions Legal Disclosures © The SMU Cultural Intelligence Initiative The Office of the Provost 6425 Boaz Lane Dallas, TX 75205, Dallas, TX 75275 twitter