Skip to main site navigation Skip to main content Open the search panel Open the main menu Search Go Close the search panel Information for… Incoming J.D. Current Students Faculty Staff Media Employers News Events Alumni Giving About Library Login Open the Search panel Admissions Admissions Why Columbia J.D. Admissions Graduate Admissions Academics Academics J.D. Program and Curriculum LL.M. Program and Curriculum Executive LL.M. Program and Curriculum J.S.D. Program and Curriculum Dual and Joint Degrees International Programs Public Interest and Public Service Experiential Learning Courses Registration Services Academic Calendar Executive Education Areas of Study Areas of Study Constitutional Law, Regulation, and Public Policy Corporate, Business, and Transactional Law Criminal Justice Data Analytics Environment and Energy Family, Gender, and Sexuality Intellectual Property and Technology International and Comparative Law Law of the Workplace Leadership Legal History Litigation and Dispute Resolution National Security and Privacy Social Justice and Human Rights Faculty & Scholarship Faculty & Scholarship Faculty Directory Research Centers and Programs Scholarship Archive Workshops, Lectures, and Colloquia Careers Careers Private Sector Careers Public Interest and Public Service Careers Academic Careers Judicial Clerkships Employment Statistics Employment Policies Community Life Community Life Visit Campus Dean’s Welcome Your Campus, Your City Student Life Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Strategic Initiatives Consumer Information (ABA-Required Disclosures) About Consumer Information (ABA-Required Disclosures) The following information about Columbia Law School is provided to current and prospective students in accordance with American Bar Association Standard 509. Admissions data Tuition and fees, living costs, and financial aid Conditional scholarships Enrollment data, including academic, transfer, and other attrition Numbers of full-time and part-time faculty, professional librarians, and administrators Class sizes for first-year and upper-year courses, number of seminar, clinical and co-curricular offerings Employment outcomes Bar passage data Previous ABA Standard 509 Information Reports: 2020, 2019, 2018, 2017, 2016, 2015, 2014, and 2013. Clery Act Annual Security Report The Jeanne Clery Disclosure of Campus Security Policy and Campus Crime Statistics Act, a federal law, requires colleges and universities to prepare and disseminate information about campus crime and crime prevention programs. In compliance, Columbia maintains a website describing programs and procedures established to keep our campus safe and secure. To view this information, please visit www.columbia.edu/cu/publicsafety. Non-Discrimination Statement & Policy Columbia University admits students of any race, color, and national or ethnic origin to all the rights, privileges, programs, and activities generally accorded or made available to students at the University. It does not discriminate on the basis of race, color, sex, gender (including gender identity and expression), pregnancy, religion, creed, marital status, partnership status, age, sexual orientation, national origin, disability, military status, or any other legally protected status in administration of its educational policies, admissions policies, scholarship and loan programs, and athletic and other University-administered programs. Admissions Why Columbia Visit 435 West 116th Street New York, NY 10027 212-854-2640 Contact Us Social Media (Administrative Title) Twitter LinkedIn Facebook Instagram Admissions Academics Areas of Study Faculty & Scholarship Careers Community Life Information for… Incoming J.D. Current Students Faculty Staff Media Employers Login News Events Alumni Giving About Library Consumer Information (ABA Required Disclosures) Donate © Copyright 2022 The Trustees of Columbia University in the City of New York.