COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW Dance Program Section Menu Performing Arts Home Dance Home Dance Program Auditions Dance Honors & Awards Mid-America Dance Theatre Student Concerts Wichita Contemporary Dance Theatre Excellence | Leadership | Creativity As an accredited member of the National Association of Schools of Dance for our BFA in Dance, our diverse program offers foundational training in modern & ballet with enhanced studies in jazz, hip-hop, ballroom & music theatre dance. You will deepen your dance education with further studies in kinesiology, body conditioning & somatics. In all four years of study, you will be a part of an intimate creative process through choreography classes, guest artists, residencies & faculty dance works. Through dance history, you'll learn the foundation of dance as an art form which will enrich your current practices & prepare you to contribute to the field of dance. Request More Information Audition for the Program About NASD Degrees We Offer Bachelor of Fine Arts in Dance A Bachelor of Fine Arts (BFA) will give you a well-rounded dance education with a triple-emphasis on modern dance, ballet and jazz. You'll train like a professional and gain real-world experience in on-campus productions and throughout Kansas' center of arts and culture—preparing you for a successful performance career. Plan of study & checksheet Bachelor of Arts in Dance A Bachelor of Arts (BA) will give you a well-rounded dance education with a triple-emphasis on modern dance, ballet and jazz. You'll train like a professional and gain real-world experience in on-campus productions and throughout Kansas' center of arts and culture—preparing you for a successful performance career. Plan of study & checksheet Minor A minor will expose you to the basic techniques of modern dance, ballet and jazz. It's a great asset for many majors and careers—from the performing arts to education. Certificate Commercial Dance: Plan of study & checksheet As A Dance Major Create your Career Be prepared to meet the diverse challenges of a professional dance career. With annual opportunities to present your choreographic work in the Litwin Theatre. With the Mid-American Dance Theatre, you will produce concerts, create artist residencies, help support & funding student travel. Mid-America Dance Theatre Guest Artists & Residencies Train with world-renowned guest choreographers and artists such as: Darrell Grand Moultrie Doug Varone David Parsons Charlotte-Boye Christensen Doug Nielsen Nathan Trice Follow the legacy of dancers who have gone on to dance in companies such as: Diavolo Tanztheatre Wuppertal Pina Bausch Jazz Roots Dance Company Dallas Black Theatre II The Martha Graham Dance Ensemble Opportunities to work with professional community arts companies such as: Alithea Mime Theatre Ballet Wichita Regina Klenjoski Dance Company Chandler Dances Alithea Mime Theatre Dance Companies & Performance Opportunities You will perform with the resident faculty company, Wichita Contemporary Dance Theatre (WCDT) You will have an opportunity to tour abroad with WCDT to places such as Italy, Taiwan and Mexico Wichita Contemporary Dance Theatre (WCDT) Student Concerts Travel Opportunities You will have opportunities to travel to national conferences, hosted by organizations such as the American College Dance Association and the National Dance Education Organization Our Faculty Denise Celestin Cheyla Clawson Chandler Nick Johnson Sabrina Vasquez, Program Director VIDEOGRAPHY: Greg Matthias, Kurt Rierson, Gerrick Brave New World Brave New World was not only designed to stretch the boundaries of conventional theatre-based performance but also create an event that breaks these boundaries while including the WSU campus as an entire, single, social, organic entity. 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©