Skip to main content Clemson University Degrees Home Degree Programs MENU Preveterinary Medicine (Non-Degree Program) LEARN MORE ABOUT A number of Doctorate of Veterinary Medicine (DVM) programs accept students prior to earning their bachelor’s degree. For students who complete just three years of coursework and are admitted into DVM programs, Clemson can award the preprofessional studies degree in veterinary medicine. If you are interested in pursuing this option, you are encouraged to declare a major while working to fulfill the basic requirements for admission. Veterinary schools have no preference for a specific major; instead, the emphasis is placed on academic strength, experiences, GRE scores, letters of recommendation and more. To qualify for the preprofessional studies degree, you must meet complete a minimum of three years of undergraduate work at Clemson and have completed the first year toward your professional degree. FAST FACTS Clemson is home to six livestock and poultry farms where students can gain hands-on animal experience. Clemson can award a B.S. or B.A. in preprofessional studies to a student who has completed three years of undergraduate work and the first year of work in an accredited school. The preveterinary sciences adviser is available to students in all majors. Clemson’s Preveterinary Club serves as great professional development for students. WHAT YOU'LL STUDY Many popular majors fulfill basic entrance requirements, and you can truly choose from any curriculum that fits your personal and professional goals. Veterinary schools have no preferences or prejudices as it relates to majors and are more interested in overall academic performance. In fact, students entering veterinary school represent a broad spectrum of curricula, from animal and veterinary sciences to English. It is critical that you work closely with an adviser in selecting your classes as each school has different admissions requirements. Clemson has a preveterinary adviser who is available to help you navigate through the process. Depending on your desired career path, course requirements typically include biology, inorganic and organic chemistry, physics and mathematics. While you're at Clemson, we encourage you to get involved in our Preveterinary Club, which serves as great professional development for our students. Similar Majors Animal and Veterinary Sciences (B.S.) Biochemistry (B.S.) Biological Sciences (B.S./B.A.) Genetics (B.S.) Wildlife and Fisheries Biology (B.S.) FIND OUT MORE Have more questions or want more information? Fill out the form below, which goes directly to the following department contact. If you’d also like to receive general University information from Clemson’s admissions office, please follow the link to the right and sign up to join our mailing list. Madison Cutts Coordinator of Student Recruitment mcutts@clemson.edu Department Website College Website Loading... Department Website College Website Home Admissions Campus Life Academics Visit Outreach Research About Apply To Clemson Undergraduate Graduate Professional Online Education Employment Opportunities Policy/Terms of Use Text Version Web Accessibility Ethics/Safety Line Privacy Policy Site Information Copyright © 2015 Clemson University Clemson, South Carolina 29634 864-656-3311 Contact Clemson Stories for the Clemson Family Clemson University on Facebook Clemson University on Twitter Clemson University on Google+ Clemson University on LinkedIn Clemson University on YouTube Clemson University on Flickr Clemson University on Instagram Search Clemson University degrees Clemson Degree Programs Search Alphabetical List Schedule a Visit Campus Life Admissions Costs & Financial Aid Similar Majors To Preveterinary Medicine (Non-Degree Program) Animal and Veterinary Sciences (B.S.) Biochemistry (B.S.) Biological Sciences (B.S./B.A.) Genetics (B.S.) Wildlife and Fisheries Biology (B.S.)