Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Carroll School of Management Carroll School Information For Centers Search BC.edu Links Shea Center for Entrepreneurship Menu Main Nav Edmund H. Shea Jr. Center for Entrepreneurship Shea Center for Entrepreneurship Newsletter Back Back Close About Overview About Edmund H. Shea Jr. Team Start@Shea Ideate Overview Competitions Accelerate@Shea Curriculum Experiential Learning Overview Internship Program TechTrek@Shea Events Overview Startup & Entrepreneurship Fair Meet@Shea Lunch with an Entrepreneur Past Events News Close Newsletter Directory A to Z Listing Search Shea Center Search BC.edu Find pages or people Search Close Close Centers BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close Home Experiential Learning TechTrek@Shea Experiential Learning Internship Program TechTrek@Shea TechTrek@Shea An entrepreneurial mindset is a critical component for new ventures, innovation within large companies, starting social initiatives, and developing a rewarding and impactful career in an ever-changing world. The TechTrek course is a 1-credit professional development course that introduces students to the entrepreneurial mindset and is open to and intended for undergrads enrolled in any undergraduate program at BC (e.g. CSOM, MCAS, LSOE). The course combines traditional classroom elements with a series of in-person and Zoom meetings with entrepreneurs, venture capitalists, and other executives throughout the semester. In the past year, students have met with senior leaders at companies like Google, Facebook, Airbnb, Uber, Salesforce, Goldman Sachs, Tesla, Dropbox, Fanatics, Twitter, numerous venture capital firms, and startups of all shapes and sizes. Course work and visits have an entrepreneurial focus, covering topics such as venture capital, entrepreneurial management, artificial intelligence, blockchain/ cryptocurrencies/ NFT, social media and platform strategies, cloud computing, and the social/ ethical implications of digital technologies. We also spend class time reflecting on our visits with entrepreneurs, discussing what implications the visit has for our understanding of business strategy and our own careers. The class is intended to help students identify and explore their own interests in relation to the increasing digitalization of the business environment and what these interests mean for their career trajectory. Enrollment is limited. Information Session Information Session Slides Interested in hosting a company visit? Contact Us Undergraduate TechTrek TechTrek Boston TechTrek is a 1-credit professional development course that combines classroom learning with online and in-person interactive sessions featuring prominent entrepreneurs, venture capitalists, and other business leaders. Students who have taken the course have said it is a "life-changing experience". Application is closed. Please check back in October 2022. Apply for the 2022 Fall TechTrek class Shea TechTrek Blog Book Review: The Upstarts “Wow, you guys are like cockroaches. You just won’t die.” – Paul Graham When Professor Kane emailed us over winter break with a long list of books about entreprene... May 13, 2022 jmolgano Final Ride: Down the rabbit hole of entrepreneurship Professor Doyle always asks: “Are entrepreneurs made or born?” To which I have heard many different answers from speakers and students ourselves. I used to have a ... May 12, 2022 florahutheeagle So Long Tech Trek I had been thinking about taking Tech Trek for the last few semesters and I am very glad I finally decided to sign up in what ended up being the last semester of a 3 credit Te... May 09, 2022 Brian Wassersug Wrapping Up I first heard about Tech Trek last Fall when I attended a talk at the Shea Center at the recommendation of a friend of mine. Following that visit I heard only good things abou... May 08, 2022 John Scrimgeour End of the Beginning Techtrek has been such an unique opportunity and experience. Never in my academic career had a class like it. It has given me the opportunity to hear from a wide range of prof... May 07, 2022 henrysu13 Tech Trek Reflection When reflecting on my Tech Trek experience this semester, two elements of the class stick out: the advice from our visitors, and the camaraderie built among the class. From ou... May 07, 2022 Liam Ruddy Book Review: The Upstarts “Wow, you guys are like cockroaches. You just won’t die.” – Paul Graham When Professor Kane emailed us over winter break with a long list of books about entreprene... May 13, 2022 jmolgano Final Ride: Down the rabbit hole of entrepreneurship Professor Doyle always asks: “Are entrepreneurs made or born?” To which I have heard many different answers from speakers and students ourselves. I used to have a ... May 12, 2022 florahutheeagle So Long Tech Trek I had been thinking about taking Tech Trek for the last few semesters and I am very glad I finally decided to sign up in what ended up being the last semester of a 3 credit Te... May 09, 2022 Brian Wassersug VIEW MORE POSTS VIEW LESS POSTS Share Your Thoughts Back To Top Back To Top Edmund H. Shea Jr. Center for Entrepreneurship Carroll School of Management, Boston College Carney Hall 452 | 140 Commonwealth Avenue Chestnut Hill, MA 02467-3809 617-552-1384 shea.center@bc.edu Facebook Twitter Instagram Carroll School of Management Fulton Hall Boston College 140 Commonwealth Avenue Chestnut Hill, MA 02467-3809 About the Carroll School Undergraduate Graduate Faculty & Research Departments Centers Contact Accreditation Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College