Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Multicultural Affairs Get Involved Programs Training & Workshops Events Resources LGBTQ+ Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact Asian American and Pacific Islander Heritage Month Recognize the contributions and influence of Asian Americans and Pacific Islander Americans Diversity Ambassador Program Have an appreciation for diversity? Become a diversity ambassador! Make the Most of Your College Experience. Looking for ways to connect on campus? Learn about our student organizations. Tiger Success Institute Are you a first-generation student? Learn about our TSI program. Other Supported Organizations Other organizations this office supports. PreviousNext Take Action Diversity Ambassador Program Report a Concern Contact Us Follow Us Online Facebook Home Multicultural Affairs Embrace the Diversity Around You. Take a look at our campus, and you'll see that diversity exists all around the University of Memphis. Our students bring forth many cultures, experiences and perspectives. The Office of Multicultural Affairs (OMA) provides you with a space to broaden your horizons and learn about the backgrounds and cultures of others. Whether you find our office to be your home away from home, a platform for you to discuss campus/community issues, an area to host a program/event, a study space, or simply a place to relax and have a bite to eat in between classes, we invite you to connect, express, and grow. Recognizing that diversity and inclusion are key components to our students' learning experience, we offer a wide range of opportunities for leadership development, programs, events, scholarships, travel and guest lectures to help you embrace the diversity around you. Additionally, OMA challenges you to think critically and lead the way in finding solutions to society's toughest issues. Regardless of race, ethnicity or religion, we welcome and encourage you to get involved and join the multicultural family at UofM. Got culture? Show it! Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 5/4/22 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.