Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Student Leadership & Involvement Student Engagement Leadership Community Engagement Fraternity & Sorority Life Student Organizations Contact Us Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact Student Engagement Registered Student Organizations Join an RSO Start/Manage an RSO Accountability Status Hazing Prevention Advise an RSO PLA Tiger Zone Corq App Spirit Initiatives Student Event Allocation What is SEA?How to Submit a ProposalUpcoming Events Student Activities Council About SACSAC CommitteesEvent CalendarJoin SAC Fraternities & Sororities About FSAPotential MembersMember ResourcesInformation for ParentsInterfraternity Council (IFC)National Pan-Hellenic Council (NPHC)Panhellenic Council (PAN) Involvement Ambassadors Report a Concern about a Student Take Action Register for Recruitment Register for Frosh Camp Tiger Zone About Us Follow SLI Online InstagramFacebooktwitter Home Student Leadership & Involvement Student Engagement Starting an Registered Student Organization RSO Management The Office of Student Leadership and Involvement is excited to announce that Registered Student Organization events, activities, and student travel will be reinstated for the fall 2021 semester. This decision will be effective July 1, 2021. All approved events must comply with building capacity and guidelines set by the building administrator. As we approach fall, the current trends and information suggest we will return safely to face-to-face classes with normal seating capacity. In addition to this, campus facilities will be open to offer a full range of experiences. All events must be registered on TigerZone and approved by the organization’s faculty or staff advisor two weeks prior to the event, a practice that was adopted in Fall 2017. Registered Student Organization event logistics will follow the requirements the UofM has set forth for the campus and will be adjusted in accordance with CDC and Shelby County Health Department Guidelines. Register Your Organization Creating a New Organization Can't find an organization that fits you? You can register your own student organization. In order to register as a student organization you will need: 10 current student members Lambuth Campus organizations need 6 members A Constitution and/or Bylaws for your organization/chapter (review the Registration Checklist & Model Constitution for requirements) Faculty/staff advisor - must be a fulltime faculty or staff member After that, you will need to Register in Tiger Zone. Tiger Zone is your one-stop shop for involvement at the UofM! To register your organization, follow the instructions below. NOTE: There are two registration periods per academic year. For fall semester registration will open July 1 and will close the second Friday of the fall semester. For the spring semester registration will open the first day of the spring semester and close the third Friday of the spring semester. Registering your Organization Be sure to have the following: A digital version of your constitution/bylaws available The UofM email addresses of your officers, advisor and members (must be "@memphis.edu") How to register Go to the Tiger Zone site at Tiger Zone "Sign In" using your UofM username and password (same as university email) Click the "Organizations" tab in the top right corner of the screen Click "Register a New Organization" on the bottom left Fill out as directed On "Roster" Page (page 5), you will need to click the "Add Member List" tab and add at least 10 student members (6 for Lambuth and 3 for Provisional Status.) NOTE: There are two registration periods per academic year. For fall semester registration will open July 1 and will close the second Friday of the fall semester. For the spring semester registration will open the first day of the spring semester and close the third Friday of the spring semester. Registration Pointers Fields without asterisks are not required. You can go back later and complete those fields. Your "Organization Description" will be where the system pulls keywords for searches. The more descriptive you are, the easier it will be for students to find your organization When it asks for "Organization Website url", it is asking for what you want to show after the slash "/" in your Tiger Zone url. (example "sac"; the url will be provided, but the "/sac" will be added to the end like so: Student Activities Council) When entering your Officers, they will show up twice, once as an Officer and once as a Member. That is ok, but please make sure you are not counting the person twice toward your 10 members. The Advisor will also show up as a Member, but should not count toward the 10 members. If you have questions or problems, please email studentinvolvement@memphis.edu or call (901) 678.8679. Share your Organization Fall Involvement Fair The Student Involvement Fair will take place Monday, August 23, 2021 from 1:00 – 4:00 PM on the UC Alumni Mall Lawn. In order to participate your organization must be (re)registered for the 2021-2022 school year before August 20, 2021. More information on how to sign up for the Involvement Fair will be communicated via UofM e-mail from TigerZone. Join in January Information coming soon! Support Your Organization Interactive Training Manual Training Manual> Take the Quiz! Event Registration Policy Every event that is not a "general meeting" must be registered in Tiger Zone at least 2 weeks prior to the event. Your event will not be approved by Student Leadership & Involvement or Conference and Event Services until you register your event and your advisor approves the event. To register an event follow the steps below: Log onto Tiger Zone using your UID and Password. From there you will click on your organization Once on your organization page click on the right side of your click "Manage Organization." Once you are to the Manage Organization Page open the menu on the left hand side by clicking the three horizontal lines on the top of the page, a side bar will appear, Click "Events." This will take you to a "Manage Events" page. Once on the Manage Events page you will be able to see all events that you have registered and create new events. To create a new event click the blue "+ Create Event" box on the right hand side of the page. Follow the prompts throughout the Event Registration page. Your event will not be registered until you push the "Submit" Button on the last page. Failure to click this button will result in your event not being registered. Forms & Resources RSO Workshop Risk Management Packet Risk Management Matrix Solicitation of Funds - Pre Event Solicitation of Funds - Post Event Operational Assistance Form Application for Food Exception Virtual EMS Budget Worksheet Fall 2020 Event Policies and Best Practices Full Event Protocol for Phase 1 Student Events (Effective September 21) Past Trainings Fall 2018 Mandatory Training Fall 2018 Event Planning Training Fall 2018 Finance Training Fall 2018 RSO Mixer Spring 2019 Training Videos Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 5/23/22 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.