Skip to main content Skip to main content DIVISION of ENROLLMENT SERVICES Skip to main content &nbsp;<b>Student Quicklinks</b> Student Quicklinks &nbsp;<b>Faculty/Staff Quicklinks</b> Faculty/Staff Quicklinks Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. Navigate Search Skip to main content Registrar Academic Advising Academic Ceremonies Academic Ceremonies Fall Rotunda Passage May Commencement Opening Convocation December Rotunda Recessional December Commencement Spring Rotunda Passage Honors Convocation May Baccalaureate Service May Rotunda Recessional May Commencement Degree Honors Degree Honors Inserts Graduation & Diploma Services About Us Academic Records Academic Records Degree Honors Enrollment Rules Honor Roll Progress Grades Viewing Your Grades GPA Calculator Graduation Honors Inserts Transcript Requests Transfer Credit Legal Process Enrollment Information Enrollment Information Fall Enrollment Information Spring Enrollment Information Summer Enrollment Information Master of Science in Data Science Program Waitlist Guidelines Common Curriculum Online Course Evaluation Course Listings Help Enrollment Policy Exception Frequently Asked Questions Final Exam Schedule The General Education Curriculum Grade Posting Schedule University Curriculum View Textbooks Online Contact Us Contact Us Virtual Office Information SMU Links SMU Links Site Index About SMU Access and Equity Administration Bursar Calendars Campus Directory Clery Report Enrollment Services Financial Aid Giving Libraries Maps Meadows Museum Information Technology Registrar Search Student Affairs Webmail ☰ Registrar Class Schedule and Enrollment Information Course Listings Help Course Listings Help Course Identification Class Number A 4 digit term specific number used for enrolling in a particular class section. Subject 2 to 4-letter department/subject prefix (i.e., LT, ECO, BIOL). Catalog Number 4-digit number First digit: Indicates level of difficulty or class level. 1 First Year 4 Senior 7 Graduate 2 Sophomore 5 Advanced Senior 8 Graduate 3 Junior 6 Graduate 9 Graduate Second digit: Indicates total credit-hour value of the course. A zero indicates 0.0 or anomaly credit hours. Third and fourth digits: Assigned to make the course unique for identification within the department. Section Number 3 or 4-digit/symbol code Indicates location/time/delivery of a course. First Digit 0 - Class Meets before 5:00pm, Graduate Cox morning section 1- Graduate Cox afternoon section 4 - Lyle Distance Sections (400) or Online Sections (401+) 5 - Study Abroad section 6 - Washington, D.C. program* 7 - Class Meets at 5:00pm or later**, Graduate Cox evening section 8 - Lecture Section of course that requires enrollment in a separate N (noncredit) lab section. L - Laboratory Section N - Noncredit Laboratory Section of course that requires enrollment in a Lecture (8) Section of the same course P - Private Studies Section. Arranged course, as are Theses, Directed Studies, and Projects. R - Noncredit Recitation Section of course that requires enrollment in a Lecture (8) Section of the same course. Primarily used for AERO (Air Force) sections taught at UNT. *Also used for the Theology Houston program. ** Also used for the Lyle Executive program (section number 795), and the Masters in Counseling program (section numbers 775 and 776) Second and Third Digits: In most cases, Sections beginning with 0, 7, 8, L, N, or R are assigned sequential numbers for the second and third digits. Sections beginning with a P are assigned numbers that correspond with the instructor. Sections beginning with 4, 5, or 6 are assigned numbers that correspond to location/program. Graduate Cox uses the second digit of the section number to indicate module, 0 = full term, 1 = Module A, 2 = Module B. SMU-in-Taos sections have a second digit of 9. Taos section numbers are 091 (Summer/May/January), 092 (August). Fourth Digit: A or B - An “A” or "B" in the fourth digit of the section number can indicate that the section has an Alternate Meeting Time, or meets following an alternate calendar. A/B is also used for sections with location specific section numbers that need to have more than one section scheduled. C - Combined Section H- Honors Section Fourth digits for Summer Session: All summer sections should use a fourth digit to indicate the session in which the section occurs. This number takes precedent over other potential fourth digits. A one (1) in the fourth digit of the section number indicates a 5-week course held during the First Session. A two (2) in the fourth digit of the section number indicates a 5-week course held during the Second Session. A three (3) in the fourth digit of the section number indicates a 10-week course held for both First and Second Sessions. A four (4) in the fourth digit of the section number indicates a course section that begins prior to First Session and ends during or after Second Session. Space Availability and Restrictions UNRSTR SEATS: This number shows how many unrestricted spaces are available in the class. If 0 appears for this limit, the section has no unrestricted spaces available. RSTR SEATS: Shows spaces available that can be enrolled in only by students meeting the specified restriction. REQUISITES: Shows the system enforced pre or co-requisites that must be met by all students in order to enroll in a course. If you do not meet the restriction specified, you cannot enroll in the course without prior consent from the course department and/or instructor. CONSENT: Student Specific Permission must be obtained from the department before enrollment is allowed. Section Notes Section notes are listed under the sections to which they apply. Class Times Class times appearing in the course listings are actual class meeting times. Class Schedule and Enrollment Information Fall Enrollment Information Spring Enrollment Information Summer Enrollment Information Master of Science in Data Science Program Waitlist Guidelines Common Curriculum Online Course Evaluation Course Listings Help Enrollment Policy Exception Frequently Asked Questions Final Exam Schedule The General Education Curriculum Grade Posting Schedule University Curriculum View Textbooks Online Student Quicklinks my.SMU Request Transcript Course Catalog Final Exam Schedule University Curriculum Student Records Forms Preferred Name Honor Roll Important Messages to Students Student Appeals and Petitions Student Rights and Responsibilities Syllabus Library Transfer Credit/Equivalency Webpay Master of Science in Data Science Program Faculty/Staff Quicklinks my.SMU Enrollment Reporting Final Exam Schedule Forms Library: SR Forms (Public) Forms Library: SR Forms (Restricted) Important Messages to Faculty Policies and Procedures [Login] SR Policies & Procedures View all DES P&P Procedures- New Course/Prog Room Scheduling Syllabus Library Enrollment and Scheduling - Advanced Users Student Services Quicklinks× Faculty/Staff Quicklinks× Contact Us Maps and Directions Legal Disclosures © Southern Methodist University, PO Box 750100, Dallas, TX 75275 twitter facebook instagram linkedin youtube share