Skip to main content Skip to main navigation Canvas Menu Getting Started Support Canvas Instructor Guide Student Guide Instructor Orientation Video Student Orientation Video On-Demand Video Guides Canvas FAQs Suggesting Improvements Mobile Apps LTI Integrations Canvas Release Notes Canvas Access Guidelines Kaltura Respondus Zoom Turnitin Bongo Learn All Other Software System Status Training Request Forms Canvas Training Request Form Demo Course Request Form Feature Request Form Organization Request Form Outside User Request Form Promotional Request Form Image Examples SI Leader Course Request Form Template Request Form Syllabi Resources News Canvas Login Baylor>Canvas>Support>Canvas>Canvas Access Guidelines Canvas Access Guidelines In accordance with Baylor University’s Technology Systems Usage Policy (BU-PP 025), course content or academic records in Canvas are presumed to be private and confidential unless they have been made available to other authorized individuals or as required by law. Information in Canvas may be accessed only by authorized personnel for compelling University business or security reasons which includes access by individuals providing support to end-users, access by students in published courses, and other access necessary for providing access to and support of resources in Canvas. These guidelines have been created with guidance from the Office of General Counsel, Office of the Registrar, and the Chief Information Security Officer in order to ensure the accuracy, integrity, and security of course records in Canvas. Invited Users Instructors within courses in Canvas are permitted to invite anyone else at Baylor into their courses as necessary as long as the role which is assigned to the user within the course complies with Baylor's guidelines pertaining to the Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act of 1974 (FERPA). Most guests should not have a course role higher than "student" or "designer” in Canvas. Teaching Assistants may be assigned the role of “TA” or “grader” as appropriate. Baylor departments can request Canvas login credentials for non-Baylor users. However, guest accounts will not be created for new or existing faculty, staff, or students who should access Canvas using a Bear_ID secured with DUO. Departments with newly-hired adjunct faculty who do not yet have an active Bear ID should work with HR for the new employee to be added as a Pending Worker in order to gain Canvas access before their start date. Administrative Access At the request of a Dean, certain employees may be given access to all courses within a department for the purpose of providing technical support, user support, or accessing analytical data related to the courses within that department. Course Content The course content within a course in Canvas is presumed to be the intellectual property of the instructor-of-record for that course. Requests for access into someone else’s course for the purpose of viewing or copying course content will be denied without the express written consent via email of the instructor-of-record. Exceptions to this can be made in extenuating circumstances when the request for access is approved by the appropriate Dean and only in situations where the instructor-of-record is unable to make this request. No attempts will be made to restore content that has been deleted or otherwise removed by the instructor-of-record. Academic Records Requests for access into someone else’s course for the purpose of accessing academic records for compelling university business such as submitting final grades in an instructor’s absence will only be permitted when the request for access is approved by the appropriate Dean and only in situations where the instructor-of-record is unable to make this request. No attempts will be made to restore records that have been deleted or otherwise removed by the instructor-of-record. User Records and Access Logs All requests for electronic usage logs, course records, or other course content beyond those already available to instructors within each Canvas course – including those needed to investigate academic dishonesty – should be submitted to the Chief Information Security Officer or the Vice President for Information Technology. The request must be accompanied by the approval of the President or the appropriate divisional Vice President or their designee. Support Canvas Instructor Guide Student Guide Instructor Orientation Video Student Orientation Video On-Demand Video Guides Canvas FAQs Suggesting Improvements Mobile Apps LTI Integrations Publisher Integrations Rich Content Editor Tools Canvas Release Notes Canvas Access Guidelines Kaltura Respondus Zoom Turnitin Bongo Learn All Other Software System Status General Information Colleges, Schools, Libraries & Research Admissions Administration Gateways For... About Baylor Anonymous Reporting Athletics Ask Baylor Bookstore Calendar Campus Map Directory Give Light Give to Baylor Illuminate Mental Health Resources News Pro Futuris Report It Search Social Media Title IX Baylor Libraries College of Arts & Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work George W. Truett Theological Seminary Graduate School Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Louise Herrington School of Nursing Research at Baylor University Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Engineering & Computer Science School of Music More Academics Undergraduate Admissions goBAYLOR Graduate Admissions Baylor Law School Admissions Social Work Graduate Programs George W. Truett Theological Seminary Admissions Online Graduate Professional Education Virtual Tour Visit Campus Annual Fire Safety and Security Notice Athletics Human Resources Marketing and Communications Office of General Counsel Office of the President Office of the Provost Operations, Finance & Administration Senior Administration Student Life University Advancement Baylor Alumni Faculty & Staff Online Graduate Professional Education Parents Prospective Faculty & Staff Prospective Students Students Copyright © Baylor® University. All rights reserved. Legal Disclosures. Baylor University • Waco, Texas 76798 • 1-800-229-5678 Getting Started Support Canvas Instructor Guide Student Guide Instructor Orientation Video Student Orientation Video On-Demand Video Guides Canvas FAQs Suggesting Improvements Mobile Apps LTI Integrations Canvas Release Notes Canvas Access Guidelines Kaltura Respondus Zoom Turnitin Bongo Learn All Other Software System Status Training Request Forms Canvas Training Request Form Demo Course Request Form Feature Request Form Organization Request Form Outside User Request Form Promotional Request Form Image Examples SI Leader Course Request Form Template Request Form Syllabi Resources News Canvas Login