Open search area Quick Links Home Home Student Guide Time Schedule Registration Academic Calendar Course Catalog Low Scholarship Academic Warning An undergraduate student whose GPA falls below 2.00 in their first quarter at the University receives an academic warning. If a cumulative GPA of at least 2.00 for courses earned in residence at the University is not achieved by the end of the next quarter, the student will be placed on academic probation. Probation and Dismissal for Low Scholarship An undergraduate student is placed on academic probation at the end of any quarter (except for the first quarter at the University, when an academic warning is issued) in which their cumulative GPA falls below 2.00. The student remains on probation until the cumulative GPA is raised to at least 2.00. If this requires more than one quarter's work, the student must maintain a quarterly GPA of at least 2.00 each succeeding quarter or the student is dropped for low scholarship. Reinstatement A student who has been dropped under low-scholarship rules is readmitted to the University only at the discretion of the dean of the school or college to which readmission is sought. A student readmitted after being dropped under these rules re-enters on academic probation. The student's GPA is the same as when dropped from the University, and the student may not use grades from other colleges or universities to raise their UW GPA. A readmitted student is dropped if they fail to attain either a 2.00 GPA for the following quarter's work or a cumulative UW GPA of 2.00 at the end of that quarter. The student is removed from probation at the end of the quarter in which a cumulative GPA of 2.00 or better is reached. Senior in Final Quarter A senior who has completed the required number of credits for graduation, but whose work in what would normally be their final quarter places them on probation, does not receive a degree until removed from probation. A senior who has completed the required number of credits for graduation, but whose work during the last quarter results in being dropped for low scholarship, does not receive a degree until readmitted and removed from probation. University of Washington Be boundless Connect with us: Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Pinterest Accessibility Contact Us Jobs Campus Safety My UW Rules Docket Privacy Terms