Skip to main content Temple University Explore Temple’s Schools and Colleges Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Support Temple Temple University Search Site Search Full Menu Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees President History & Traditions Temple Health News & Media Offices Public Information Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Development Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Libraries Professional Health Education MSEd You are here Home Academics Degrees and Programs Professional Health Education MSEd Professional Health Education MSEd Admissions Careers & Opportunities Required Courses Research & Facilities Scholarships & Financial Aid Master of Science in Education in Professional Health Education Develop your critical skills as a professional health educator with the Professional Health Education MSEd in Temple’s College of Education and Human Development. This 33-credit master’s degree program prepares health professionals in programs such as dentistry, medicine, pharmacy and science for leadership roles in healthcare institutions and organizations. Students have the option to concentrate in the Scholarship of Teaching and Learning in Health-based Instruction, which supports students who wish to focus on the production of scholarship in health-based learning and instruction. This cohort-based master’s program is specifically designed for students who are or would like to be faculty members in health professional programs. The academic program, which is housed in the Department of Psychological Studies in Education, was created by faculty and administration in the Katz School of Medicine and the Kornberg School of Dentistry in conjunction with faculty in the College of Education and Human Development. The optional concentration is ideal for those students interested in developing pedagogical research, participating in peer critique and evaluation, and sharing with others who are engaged in scholarship. The Professional Health Education MSEd program’s flexibility meets the needs of students who are already working in the healthcare field. While similar programs emphasize instruction and research, Temple’s unique approach to professional education prioritizes case-based, evidence-based instruction and clinical care. Through the program, you’ll strengthen critical decision-making and problem-solving skills through collaboration and networking with leaders in the industry. Learn to develop teaching plans to accommodate diverse populations and apply evidence-based healthcare principles, effective coaching techniques and group facilitation. You’ll graduate with the knowledge to become a leader in the critique of curricular change and curricular innovation development. Program Outcomes Classes are taught by faculty experts from a rotation of health professional schools to ensure the most medically applicable curriculum. Learning outcomes are based on your field of study and include the following. Applying evidence-based healthcare principles to teaching future professionals. Designing, presenting and assessing case-based instructional modules. Implementing adult learning theories in both the didactic and clinical. Performing effective coaching techniques. Providing effective group facilitation and consultation. Program Format & Curriculum All Professional Health Education MSEd coursework will take place online or as in-person courses in an executive-style format at the Temple University Center City campus. Students can complete this master’s program in as little as 20 months and may not exceed six years. Students not completing the concentration will select courses with the help of an academic advisor. Some courses include the following. Case-based Instruction and Learning Evidence-based Health Care Fundamental Interpersonal Techniques for Healthcare Professionals Motivation in Education Students completing the optional concentration complete the following courses. Critical Understanding of Social Science Research Quantitative Analysis, Part I Tests and Measurements All students complete a practicum course using the program’s core content to design and conduct a viable study of teaching and learning in their field of study. Culmination of the program includes a capstone project for which students write an analysis of their study outcomes and present to all students and faculty in the program. Learn more about the courses for the Professional Health Education MSEd. Related Graduate Degrees Higher Education MEd Educational Leadership EdD Policy and Organizational Studies PhD Related Graduate Certificate Professional Health Education Tuition & Fees In keeping with Temple’s commitment to access and affordability, this Master of Science in Education offers a competitive level of tuition with multiple opportunities for financial support. Tuition rates are set annually by the university and are affected by multiple factors, including program degree level (undergraduate or graduate), course load (full- or part-time), in-state or out-of-state residency, and more. These tuition costs apply to the 2021–2022 academic year. Pennsylvania resident: $966.00 per credit Out-of-state: $1,329.00 per credit Learn more about our tuition and fees. Our Advisors The College of Education and Human Development graduate advising staff will provide academic advising to students in the Professional Health Education MSEd program. Administration from each of the healthcare-related schools will be available for additional support. Program Contact For more information about the Professional Health Education MSEd program, contact the following staff member. Paul C. Jones, assistant professor, is the program coordinator for the Professional Health Education program. Phone: 215-204-3341 Email: paul.jones@temple.edu ED-PHED-MSED Additional Program Information Visit College Site Go back to AcademicsMore in Professional Health Education MSEd Admissions Careers & Opportunities Required Courses Research & Facilities Scholarships & Financial Aid Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Calendar Policies Social Media TUportal TUmail Accessibility Careers at Temple Safety & Emergency Information Ethics & Compliance Privacy Statement Professional Licensure Disclosures Follow Temple University Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community.