Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Department of Anthropology About Undergraduate Graduate People Our Work Resources News & Events Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact Graduate Resources Current Students Future Students Take Action Undergraduates Join the Graduate Program Support the Department Contact Us Follow Us Online FacebooktwitterYoutubeLinkedIn Home Department of Anthropology Graduate Majors Graduate Certificate Programs Graduate Certificate Programs Interdisciplinary Graduate Certificate Program in Museum Studies This program is administered jointly by the Department of Anthropology, College of Arts and Sciences and the Department of Art, College of Communication and Fine Arts) The Interdisciplinary Graduate Certificate Program in Museum Studies is intended to prepare students who are currently enrolled in or have graduated from Masters or Doctoral degree programs to enter the museum professions. As an interdisciplinary program, individuals from all fields, including art, anthropology, art history, biology, history, business, education, communication, and public administration are encouraged to participate. The program will help prepare students for entry-level positions in museum administration, education, collection management, registration, exhibition development, curation, and public programs. www.memphis.edu/museumstudies Geographic Information Systems Geographic Information Systems (GIS) manage, analyze, and display geographic knowledge. The GIS Certificate Program is for those with a Bachelor's degree in a relevant field, and with an interest in using GIS as a problem-solving tool. The GIS Certificate gives students an interdisciplinary perspective that allows them to integrate GIS skills into their knowledge acquired in other disciplines; competitive skills and training for jobs in which GIS skills are essential. https://www.memphis.edu/earthsciences American Humanics Nonprofit Administration The graduate level concentration in Nonprofit Administration, offered by the Division of Public and Nonprofit Administration, consists of completion of 15 hours of course work, guided electives, and an internship with a local nonprofit organization. Members of the American Humanics Student Association participate in the Fall Retreat, Spring Recognition Reception, fundraisers, and recruitment presentations. The American Humanics Management Institute (AHMI) is an annual national conference that features interactive workshops and seminars on nonprofit issues. Past conferences have been held in Las Vegas, Orlando and San Antonio. Public and Nonprofit Administration (NPL Certificate) Women's and Gender Studies Women's and Gender Studies at the University of Memphis is an academic program that focuses on scholarship of women and gender, and how we think about race, class, sexuality and social inequality. Our interdisciplinary program offers an undergraduate minor, a graduate certificate, and a Master of Arts degree.The Master of Arts degree allows students to choose a concentration in Inequality and Social Policy, or Cultural Studies. Within each concentration, faculty work with students to design an individualized academic program to fit student needs and interests. Our graduate degree program also includes thesis and non-thesis options. https://www.memphis.edu/gradcatalog/degree_planning/cas/wmst.php Public Health Degree Programs The Master of Public Health Program at the University of Memphis integrates academic rigor with real world solutions to promote healthy communities and environments, prevent chronic disease, and protect against disease spread. Located in the metropolitan mid-South, where substantial health disparities exist, our focus addresses urban health concerns and advocacy for the underserved. The program enjoys a close working relationship with the Memphis and Shelby County Health Department, where monthly roundtables bridge the gap between academic study and the practice of public health. We offer a 42-credit hour MPH degree in five concentration areas: Biostatistics, Environmental Health, Epidemiology, Health Systems Management, and Social and Behavioral Science. Students may also opt for a general MPH degree. Our program accommodates the needs of working professionals, with all courses offered in the evening. The MPH practicum requirement is fulfilled at the Health Department, where students work with preceptors on projects related to infant mortality, tobacco control, obesity prevention, promotion of breastfeeding, pollution control, water quality, social determinants of health, HIV/AIDS risk reduction, immigrant and refugee health, tuberculosis control, or emergency preparedness. Students also complete a capstone project, which takes the form of either a thesis or Masters Project option. https://www.memphis.edu/publichealth/programs/index.php Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 1/12/22 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.