Skip to site alert. Skip to content Irving Institute for Clinical and Translational Research Newsletter News Events Videos People Search About Us About Us Resources and Cores Message from the Director History Initiatives and Committees News Events Videos Contact Cite the Grant Subscribe to our Mailing List Initiatives and Committees Implementation Science COVID-19 Research Initiative Diversity, Equity and Inclusion (DEI) Committee Opioid Crisis Response Learning Health System Initiative Services and Programs Our Impact Our Impact A Model for Collaboration Testimonials Publications People Impact Stories Narratives of Discovery People Irving Scholars Mentor of the Year Award Pilot Awardees Scholars, Trainees, and Fellows Join a Study Join a Study What is Health Research? Research Registries and Studies Community Health Resources Campus News Topics Research Campus News Public Health Precision Medicine Education Impact Stories Personalized Medicine Medical School View All Topics Search All News Keywords News Top Stories Dr. Akiva Mintz Appointed Co-Director of Translational Therapeutics Accelerator (TRx) Akiva Mintz, MD, PhD, Professor of Radiology at CUIMC is appointed as the new co-director of our Translational Therapeutics Accelerator (TRx). Topic Research Dr. Renu Nandakumar Appointed Director of Biomarkers Core Lab The Irving Institute announces Dr. Renu Nandakumar is appointed as the new director of the Biomarkers Core Laboratory. Topic Research Dr. Krzysztof Kiryluk Appointed Co-Director of the Irving Institute’s Precision Medicine Resource The Irving Institute appointed Krzysztof Kiryluk, MD, MS, Herbert Irving Assistant Professor of Medicine, as co-director of the Precision Medicine Resource as of March 2017. Topic Precision Medicine Announcing the 2022-2023 Innovative Intervention and Implementation Science Pilot Awards These pilot awards provide a key capacity building opportunity to stimulate the development and testing of population health. Topic DEI Latest News Dr. Rafael A. Lantigua and Dr. Olajide A. Williams will chair the new Community Advisory Council, along with Dr. Melissa Begg and Dr. Wafaa El-Sadr Source: Columbia Neighbors March 10, 2022 The Council will support and expand partnerships and programs with community leaders and organizations in Harlem and Upper Manhattan. Topic DEI Gary Miller - Named Fellow for the American Association for the Advancement of Science Source: CUIMC Newsroom January 28, 2022 Gary W. Miller, PhD, named AAAS Fellow, a professor of environmental health sciences and vice dean for research strategy and innovation at Columbia University Mailman School of Public Health. Topic Medical School The Health Department Announces New Members of the NYC Board of Health Source: NYC.gov September 28, 2021 Dr. Sidney Hankerson named as part of the 11-member New York City Board of Health, protecting the health of all New Yorkers. Topic Mental Health Columbia Awarded $61.7 Million to Accelerate Development of New Medical Treatments Source: CUIMC Newsroom September 14, 2021 The funding enables the Irving Institute for Clinical and Translational Research to maintain more than 70 services and programs to help Columbia researchers Topic Infectious Diseases Dr. Marisa Spann & Dr. Jacquelyn Taylor Named Co-Directors of TL1 Program September 10, 2021 Dr. Henry Ginsberg is stepping down as PI of the TL1 award, and Dr. Krzysztof Kiryluk will move on from his Co-Directorship of the program. Topic Leadership Updates Olajide Williams and Rachel Shelton Named Co-Directors of the Irving Institute’s Community Engagement Core Resource August 5, 2021 Elizabeth G. Cohn, RN, PhD will transition from CECR Co-Director to Community Engagement and Research Liaison working across CTSAs at Cornell and Columbia. Topic Leadership Updates Announcing the 2021-2024 Irving Scholars July 16, 2021 The Irving Institute for Clinical and Translational Research is honored to announce four new Herbert and Florence Irving Scholars for the 2021-2024 cohort. Topic Research Winners of Life Science Accelerator Grants Focus on Lab-to-Market Ideas July 13, 2021 2021 Columbia Life Science Accelerator pilot grant for creative and inventive lab-to-market projects. Topic Cancer Announcing the Mentors of the Year - 2021 June 16, 2021 Presented each year to faculty on the Columbia University Irving Medical Center campus in recognition of their outstanding mentorship. Topic Medical School 2021 Precision Medicine Pilot Awardees Source: HICC June 10, 2021 As part of the Columbia Precision Medicine Joint Pilot Grants Program, the Precision Medicine Resource of the Irving Institute for Clinical and Translational Research, announces the 2021 Awardees. Topic Precision Medicine Pages 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 next last Columbia University Irving Medical Center NewYork-Presbyterian ColumbiaDoctors About Us Services and Programs Our Impact Join a Study Contact Columbia University 630 West 168th Street New York, NY 10032 United States Follow Us YouTube LinkedIn Twitter Facebook Back to top