Search | Directories | Reference Tools UW Home > Discover UW > Student Guide UW Bothell Course Descriptions UW Tacoma Course Descriptions Glossary SCHOOL OF PUBLIC HEALTH SCHOOL OF PUBLIC HEALTH PUBLIC HEALTH INTERDISCIPLINARY Detailed course offerings (Time Schedule) are available for Spring Quarter 2022 Summer Quarter 2022 Autumn Quarter 2022 PHI 500 Public Health Practice, Science and Knowledge (1) Introduces the 12 foundational competency areas of public health endorsed by the Council on Education for Public Health (CEPH). Prepares School of Public Health students for further study and work in public health. Emphasis on science and practice of public health and factors related to public health, including environmental, biological, behavioral, psychological, social, political, economic, and more. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: PHI 500 PHI 511 Foundations of Public Health (3) Examines public health and healthcare - U.S. and globally. Covers foundational elements of public health, including history and impact, importance of health equity and human rights, and how racism manifests and is perpetuated within public health/healthcare systems. Builds community and provides a foundation for students to work effectively as public health professionals on inter-professional teams. View course details in MyPlan: PHI 511 PHI 512 Analytic Skills for Public Health I (7) Focuses on principles and methods of epidemiology and biostatistics, including: descriptive epidemiology, data summaries and presentation, study design, measures of excess risk, causal inference, screening, measurement error, misclassification, effect modification, confounding, confidence intervals, hypothesis testing, p-values, sample size calculation, and linear regression analysis. Includes hands-on data analysis. View course details in MyPlan: PHI 512 PHI 513 Analytic Skills for Public Health II (3) Introduces qualitative and mixed methods and relevance to rigorous public health research and practice. Places a strong emphasis on qualitative data analysis as an integral dimension of the mixed-methods approach. Focuses on contexts for and types of qualitative research questions, integration with quantitative measures of magnitude and frequency, and assessment of strength of evidence in the context of implementation science. Prerequisite: PHI 511 and PHI 512. View course details in MyPlan: PHI 513 PHI 514 Determinants of Health (3) Describes and applies frameworks for understanding determinants of health at multiple levels and within different systems. Emphasizes individual- and family-level determinants, physical and social environments, population-level determinants, and systems dynamics. Students learn how to apply theory and to interpret and weigh evidence to identify and prioritize health determinants for public health research, practice, and policy. Prerequisite: PHI 511 and PHI 512. View course details in MyPlan: PHI 514 PHI 515 Implementing Public Health Interventions (4) Students learn about the role of theory, evidence, community engagement, and ethics in health promotion intervention design, implementation, and evaluation. Focuses on identifying population needs, assets and capacities to inform intervention design; implementation of interventions and intervention strategies across the socio-ecological framework; and monitoring intervention implementation and evaluating intervention outcomes. Prerequisite: PHI 511; PHI 512; PHI 513; and PHI 514. View course details in MyPlan: PHI 515 PHI 516 Public Health Practice (3) Students integrate and apply knowledge of health determinants and public health systems, analytic skills, and evidence-based approaches to real world public health problem solving. Helps develop system thinking skills and an understanding of the interrelationships between public health infrastructure, generation and evaluation of public health evidence, public health policy, leadership, management, communication and community engagement. Prerequisite: PHI 511; PHI 512; PHI 513; and PHI 514. View course details in MyPlan: PHI 516 PHI 590 Public Health Interdisciplinary Selected Topics (1-10, max. 20) Topics vary. View course details in MyPlan: PHI 590 Office of the University Registrar registrar@uw.edu Modified: May 30, 2022