Skip to main content Skip to main content Prospective Students Current Students Alumni More Faculty/Staff News Media Parents Skip to main content Apply Apply Give Give Follow Us Follow Us Twitter Follow Us Facebook Follow Us Instagram Follow Us LinkedIn Follow Us YouTube Follow Us Social Stream Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. Navigate Search Skip to main content Sexual Harassment Policies Get Help Get Help Medical care Confidential help Academic and campus help Help for faculty and staff How faculty and staff can help students Report Report Report to police Report to SMU Report anonymously Report retaliation Protective orders Learn More Learn More SMU Title IX Sexual Harassment Policy Sexual assault and consent Definitions and examples Campus security Message from President Turner SMU Task Force Get involved Get involved Education and prevention Awareness tips Request a presentation Resources ☰ Sexual Harassment Get involved Awareness tips Tips for being aware, informed and involved If you see something, say something. Report suspicious people or activities, such as a person you don’t recognize following students into a Residential Commons. Call SMU Police at 214-768-3333 or report anonymously at 214-SMU-2TIP. Be aware. When you are first getting to know someone, exercise caution and make sure others know where you are. Support others. If you see someone who needs assistance, intervene or call 911. When you’re out with friends, don’t leave anyone behind; check that everyone returns home safely. Call for Help. If you or a friend is in danger due to drinking or drug use, call 911 immediately. Students who seek medical help for themselves or others normally will be exempt from discipline for alcohol and drug violations under SMU’s Medical Amnesty and Good Samaritan policies. Watch your drink. Never drink from an open container that has been out of your possession for any length of time. If you think you or others with you may have been drugged, seek medical attention immediately and call police. Call for a security escort. SMU Safety Escort by Tapride offers free safe rides on campus from 7 p.m. to 3 a.m. when classes are in session during the fall and spring terms; download the Tapride app. SMU Police are available to provide secure rides on campus; 214-768-3388. Be aware of the location of blue-light phones across campus. They connect directly to SMU Police. Know how to help. If a friend tells you that he or she has been sexually assaulted, listen and urge your friend to call police or speak with a professional, such as a confidential counselor at SMU Counseling Services; 214-768-2277. Remember that sexual assault can happen to anyone and that sexual assault is not the victim’s fault. Respect others’ limits. Communicate your expectations on physical contact, and obtain consent before engaging in any form of sexual activity. Recognize that a person has the right to change his or her mind, and don’t use force, coercion or threats. SMU’s Title IX Sexual Harassment Policy and the federal law Title IX prohibit sexual harassment, including sexual assault. Sexual assault also is a crime punishable by imprisonment from two to 20 years plus a fine up to $10,000. Sexual harassment will not be tolerated at SMU. Alcohol use is no excuse. The use of alcohol or drugs does not justify or excuse behavior that constitutes sexual harassment. Get involved. Learn more about sexual harassment and our community’s efforts to end it. The Office of Student Advocacy and Support (214-768-4512) and the Women & LGBT Center (214-768-4792) are among those who can connect you with students, faculty and staff who are taking action against sexual harassment. Get involved Education and prevention Awareness tips Request a presentation Resources In case of emergency or for criminal reporting, please call SMU Police, 214-768-3333, or pick up a blue-light phone on campus. Confidential Resources SMU Counseling Services 214-768-2277 SMU Chaplain’s Office 214-768-4502 Additional SMU resources SMU Title IX Coordinator (for internal grievance information and reporting) 214-768-3601 Office of Student Advocacy & Support 214-768-4512 Anonymous reporting 214-768-2TIP (2847) Community resources Dallas Area Rape Crisis Center (DARCC) 972-641-7273 Texas Health Presbyterian Hospital Sexual Assault Nurse Examiner (SANE) Program 214-345-6203 Learn more about resources. Apply Visit School Cox School of Business Dedman College of Humanities and Sciences Dedman School of Law Lyle School of Engineering Meadows School of the Arts Moody School of Graduate and Advanced Studies Perkins School of Theology Simmons School of Education and Human Development Explore SMU Magazine Academic Calendar Events Calendar Guildhall Continuing and Professional Education Athletics Employment at SMU Campus Reporting a Bias Incident Report Sexual Misconduct Emergency Preparedness Student Life George W. Bush Presidential Center SMU Libraries Meadows Museum Tate Lecture Series Contact Us Maps and Directions Legal Disclosures © Southern Methodist University, PO Box 750100, Dallas, TX 75275 twitter facebook instagram linkedin youtube share