Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Apply Visit Give Parents Search BC.edu Links Alumni Menu Main Nav Alumni Donate Back Back Close About Overview Alumni Association Alumni Board Alumni Association Staff Past Alumni Board Presidents Annual Report Leadership Terms of Service Join Our Team Connect Overview Volunteer Councils & Groups Chapters International Hong Kong London Germany Madrid Panama Paris Philippines Singapore Arizona Phoenix California Los Angeles Northern California Orange County Sacramento San Diego Colorado Denver Connecticut Fairfield Hartford Delaware Delaware District of Columbia Washington, D.C. Florida Fort Lauderdale Jacksonville Miami Orlando Palm Beach Sarasota Southwest Florida Tampa Georgia Atlanta Hawaii Hawaii Illinois Chicago Indiana Indianapolis Kentucky Kentucky Louisiana New Orleans Maine Maine Maryland Baltimore Massachusetts Boston Cape Cod Western Massachusetts Michigan Detroit Minnesota Minnesota Missouri Kansas City St. Louis Nebraska Omaha Nevada Las Vegas New Hampshire New Hampshire New Jersey Jersey Shore New Jersey New York Albany Buffalo Long Island New York City Rochester Westchester North Carolina Charlotte Triangle Ohio Cincinnati Cleveland Columbus Oregon Portland Pennsylvania Philadelphia Pittsburgh Puerto Rico Puerto Rico Rhode Island Rhode Island South Carolina South Carolina Tennessee Nashville Texas Austin Dallas Houston San Antonio Utah Utah Vermont Vermont Washington Seattle Wisconsin Milwaukee Class and School Engagement Spirituality On Eagles Wings Reflections Advent Reflections Lenten Reflections Reflections Reflections Social Media Pine Manor Alumni Hub Related Links Reunion BC Athletics Events Overview Reunion Weekend Pops on the Heights Family Weekend Global Days of Service Distinguished Volunteer Awards Dinner Winter Wonderland Benefits & Services Overview Career & Networking Alumni Benefits Giving Overview Gift Policy The Impact of Your Gift Give Online Gift Planning Giving Societies The 1863 Society McElroy Circle Bapst Circle Fulton Circle Gasson Circle Monan Circle The William B. Neenan, S.J., Society The Shaw Society Boston College Call Center Apply to Work at the Boston College Call Center Donate Close Directory A to Z Listing Search Alumni & Friends Search BC.edu Find pages or people Search Close Close Apply Visit Give Parents BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close McElroy Circle Home Giving Giving Societies The 1863 Society McElroy Circle The 1863 Society McElroy Circle Bapst Circle Fulton Circle Gasson Circle Monan Circle McElroy Circle — $1,000 to $2,499 Named for Boston College’s founder, John McElroy, SJ, the McElroy Circle honors BC donors who aim to make a difference in the face of the unknown. In 1863, Father McElroy fought intense prejudice and labored tirelessly for two decades to realize his vision of a Catholic school of higher education in Boston. If not for his tenacity, there would be no BC. So, too, do McElroy Circle donors dare. With an annual gift of $1,000 to $2,499, donors enter the McElroy Circle to begin their journey of philanthropic leadership and engagement with BC. Benefits Membership in the McElroy Circle, the first donor circle of the 1863 Society, comes with many benefits: Impact updates on how your giving helps thousands of students fulfill their potential Invitations to exclusive events recognizing your leadership support throughout the year Private reception with the President during your Reunion Weekend at BC How Your Donation Makes a Difference Boston College Fund McElroy gifts can help cover the the travel expenses for a student to participate in an international service trip. Our Eagles soar far and wide in service to others! *This unrestricted fund provides flexibility for fund designation to those areas in most need. William J. Flynn Fund McElroy gifts to the Flynn Fund help provide vital training equipment such as body shields and tackling dummies for our beloved BC Eagles football team. Student Financial Aid McElroy gifts to student financial aid enable BC to award aid and grants and other aid totaling more than $114 million to deserving students, regardless of their economic background. Academic Excellence McElroy gifts to academic excellence allow a professor to hire a student research assistant for one semester, furthering research and promoting student formation. “When I think about why I give back to BC, it's because my mom always instilled in me the importance of giving back, and I am so thankful for the rich liberal arts education and strong business curriculum, long-lasting friendships, and impressive alumni community and network. I designate most of my giving to the sailing team; I loved the scrappiness of our team. It's been awesome to see the success, now with our own boats, boathouse, and championships.” Karen Walker Beecher '87 Join McElroy ►How to Join Interested in joining or learning more about the McElroy’ Circle? Fill out our contact form below and a BC representative will contact you within 48 hours. Back To Top Back To Top Boston College Alumni Association Cadigan Alumni Center 140 Commonwealth Ave. Chestnut Hill, MA 02467 Connect With Us Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkedIn Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College For updates on Boston College's reopening for fall semester visit bc.edu/reopen. Ok