COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW WSU News - All Stories For WSU News and WSU Today content older than July 2018, Search the WSU News Archive. WSU News Archive Return to WSU News Home Filter by: All students Applied Learning Faculty/Staff Fairmount College of Liberal Arts and Sciences pandemic community Alumni College of Engineering COVID-19 Research Graduate Profiles Community Engagement Innovation Campus Life Diversity/Inclusion Scholarships Talent Pipeline Innovation Campus College of Applied Studies College of Health Professions SearchDirectory Filter Search WSU Esports varsity team marks a milestone for the program May 18, 2022 — After winning the Eastern College Athletic Conference Championship, the Wichita State Varsity Esports Valorant team qualified for a direct bid to compete in the Collegiate Esports Commissioners Cup, a milestone for WSU's Esports program. WSU partners with local community to increase Redbud Trail accessibility May 13, 2022 — Wichita State University is working with a group of community organizations to make a popular pathway more welcoming and accessible to Wichita walkers and bikers. Wichita State designated Age-Friendly University for focus on range of learning opportunities April 6, 2022 — Wichita State University has been designated an Age-Friendly University for its leadership in research, education and care for older adults. Wichita State is the first institution of higher learning in Kansas to receive this designation. Being recognized as an AFU demonstrates Wichita State’s commitment to promoting healthy and active aging through research, enhanced learning opportunities for people across generations, and innovations that address issues affecting older adults. New esports director brings his vision of gaming to Wichita State March 30, 2022 - The vision for varsity esports at Wichita State encompasses much more than people gaming on Cybertron Computers and wearing a Logitech Headset. While gaming success is important, the program is also seen as way to provide extra-curricular activity and applied learning for students in disciplines across campus. Travis Yang, hired in December as WSU’s Esports director, wants to build a program that follows that direction. Rap star Wale performing live concert at Wichita State March 28, 2022 — Grammy-nominated rap star, actor and advocate Wale will perform in concert at Wichita State University at 8 p.m. Friday, April 15, in Charles Koch Arena. Recovery Connect offers help to groups affected by COVID-19 March 24, 2022 — A new initiative by Wichita State’s Public Policy Management Center and Sedgwick County is helping connect community members to resources that could help with economic recovery efforts. Recovery Connect focuses on helping people, small businesses and non-profits find existing resources in the community. Wichita State's Molecular Diagnostics Lab honored for pandemic heroism March 10, 2022 — Wichita State University’s Molecular Diagnostics Lab has been awarded the Jiggs Nelson Quality of Life 2022 award for its lifesaving and heroic work during the COVID-19 pandemic. Wichita State president launches 'Forward Together' podcast March 10, 2022 — Wichita State University President Rick Muma has launched a new podcast, called “Forward Together,” where the president speaks with guests from throughout Shocker Nation to highlight the people and priorities that guide WSU. The podcast drops monthly, with the March edition releasing March 9. Some of the guests so far include Hollywood director Dean Hargrove, WSU basketball coach Isaac Brown and WSU research vice president Coleen Pugh. Tom Gentile joins WSU Barton School of Business Dean's Advisory Board March 7, 2022 — Tom Gentile, president and CEO of Spirit AeroSystems, has been named as the newest member of the Dean’s Advisory Board for Wichita State’s W. Frank Barton School of Business. WSU students presenting for Kansas Undergraduate Research Days March 2, 2022 — Three Wichita State students’ projects are being highlighted as a part of the Kansas Undergraduate Research Day event March 1-3. MDL re-opens COVID test collection to the public March 1, 2022 — Wichita State’s Molecular Diagnostics Lab (MDL) is re-opening COVID test collections to the public starting today (March 1). $3 million gift from J. Robert Young dedicated to WSU student success Feb. 23, 2022 — Wichita State alumnus J. Robert Young has pledged a gift of $3 million to provide resources that will help students build successful careers. Of that total, $2 million will endow the J. Robert Young Executive-in-Residence Program in the W. Frank Barton School of Business. The remaining $1 million will support the Shocker Success Center project, which will consolidate 17 student services in Clinton Hall. Margaret Dechant named new chair of Barton School's Dean's Advisory Board Feb. 22, 2022 - The Dean’s Advisory Board for the W. Frank Barton School of Business at Wichita State University is excited to announce Margaret Dechant as its new leader. Dechant, CEO and partner at 6 Meridian, will take over for Clark Bastian. Dechant currently serves as a member of the board and looks to bring her knowledge and passion for the Barton School and WSU to her appointment. Bastian chairman of Fidelity Bank, will remain on the board after his term as chair comes to an end in June. WSU study of Wichita's litter shows room for improvement Feb. 22, 2022 — The Wichita Litter Study was borne from community concern about the number of single-use plastic bags floating throughout the city. The study focused on 12 small sites within Wichita municipal parks — two parks within each city council district; and the data, while concerning, was not altogether a surprise for the research team. New signage in store for Wichita State's Innovation Campus entrance Feb. 18, 2022 — The entrance to Wichita State University’s Innovation Campus on the corner of 21st and Oliver streets is about to get a Shocker makeover with new signage and landscaping. 1 2 3 4 5 Next Last 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©