Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Registrar About Register Students Veterans Faculty & Staff Forms Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact Students Enrollment Verification Grades Overview GPA and Grading Scale Grade Change FAQ Transcripts OverviewOfficialUnofficialLambuth UniversityFAQ Reverse Transfer FERPA and Student Educational Records Annual FERPA NotificationRelease of Student Education Record Student Right-to-Know Information Changing Personal Data Withdrawing from UofM OverviewLate/Retroactive Withdrawal Self Service Guides Take Action View Calendars Order Transcripts View Notices Contact Us Home Registrar Students Registrar Grading Scale and GPA Grading Scale and GPA In addition to the traditional A-B-C-D-F grades, instructors have the option of assigning several "+" and "-" grades as well. Instructors do not have to use +/- grading, and in some instances it may be their department's policy not to. Refer to your course syllabus. Note: Only grading scales for undergraduate and graduate level courses are discussed here. For Law, refer to the Law School's Academic Regulations. An A+ is not worth any more quality points than an A. Though the "plus" does not increase quality points, it is not without value. If you intend to pursue graduate or professional school, any A+ on your transcript is likely to help your candidacy. UofM does not assign a "D-" grade. When you repeat a course, the first attempt is excluded from your Cumulative GPA, but your second attempt and subsequent attempts are used. For a fuller discussion of repeated courses, refer to the Undergraduate Catalog. Important Change Any transfer work posted before Summer 2015 and after Summer 2019 is applied to the Overall and Overall Combined GPA. From the Summer 2015 semester to the Summer 2019 semester, the University's repeat policy changed with regard to courses transferred to UofM: such courses were not used in calculating GPA. For more information, refer to the Undergraduate Catalog. The "W" grade is not used in calculating GPA. (See "Grades Not Calculated in GPA" below.) Calculating Your GPA To calculate either your semester or overall GPA, determine the total number of Quality Points you earned in the period and divide this figure by total number of credit hours you attempted in courses for which grades of A+ through F were assigned. Here are the Quality Point values assigned to standard letter grades awarded at UofM: 4.00 for A+ or A 3.84 for A- 3.33 for B+ 3.00 for B 2.67 for B- 2.33 for C+ 2.00 for C 1.67 for C- 1.33 for D+ 1.00 for D 0.00 for F Be aware that the first attempts of courses that have been repeated are excluded from the cumulative (overall) GPA. Repeated Courses and GPA Most courses can be repeated. Learn the rules governing repeated courses and how repeats can affect your GPA by going to Repeated Courses and Your GPA. Viewing Your GPA You can view your current GPA by calling up your Academic Transcript (Unofficial Transcript). Cumulative Statistics Please note that the cumulative statistics you view online are always the current cumulative statistics. Even if you view a past term's grades, the cumulative statistics will be current through the last term you completed. For example, if you view Fall 2007 grades, the cumulative statistics shown with Fall 2007 will include any additional credits and grades earned during later semesters. Lottery Scholarships (Undergraduates Only) The GPA used to determine your continued eligibility for Lottery Scholarships is not the same as your UofM GPA. Your Lottery GPA can be lower because it takes into account all of your attempts at a particular course whereas your UofM GPA counts only the second and successive attempts at a course. Lottery rules allow only one repeated course to be deducted from the Lottery GPA calculation. Also, you need to be aware that Lottery rules stipulate that "W" grades are figured into your Lottery Scholarship eligibility. Any course for which you receive a "W" grade is considered an attempted course for Lottery purposes. "W" grades are not used in calculating your Lottery GPA, but the "W" hours do count toward the maximum hours allowed by a Hope Lottery Scholarship. Grading Scale in Individual Courses The grading scale for each course (i.e., the number of points required in that course to earn an A, a B, etc.) is determined by the instructor and should appear in the instructor's course syllabus. GPA Re-calculation by Other Schools/Services Some professional evaluation services (e.g., AMCAS, LSDAS) and professional or graduate schools may re-calculate the grade point average according to their grading scale and guidelines. Grades Not Calculated in GPA AU (Audit) - You audited a course and met the instructor's standards for both attendance and class participation. CR (Credit Received) - You satisfactorily completed a course taken on a credit/no-credit basis. I (Incomplete) - You did not complete a course for a reason that was acceptable to the instructor. Undergraduates must complete all work within 45 days, and Graduates within 90 days, following the end of the semester; otherwise, the grade changes to an "F". IP (In Progress) - The "IP" grade is used in certain research courses to allow you time to complete projects, field work, etc. Most courses graded IP require you to re-enroll in the course the following term. NC (No Credit) - The "NC" grade indicates you did not satisfactorily complete a course in which you had permission to register on a credit/no-credit basis. S (Satisfactory) - The "S" grade is limited to certain types of courses (practicum, research, dissertation, etc.) approved for S/U grading. SA (Satisfactory) - The "SA" indicates the satisfactory completion of a thesis, dissertation, or capstone project. It is assigned only for the final enrollment. The "IP" grade is assigned for all prior enrollments in such courses. U (Unsatisfactory) - You did not satisfactorily complete your S/U course (practicum, research, dissertation, etc.) W (Withdrew) - You dropped (withdrew from) the class. A "W" does not affect your GPA. However, "W" grades can affect your continued Lottery Scholarship eligibility since they count toward the number of attempted hours allowed under the scholarship. Please read "Lottery Scholarships (Undergraduates Only)" above. Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 4/8/21 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.