Skip to main content. ADVISORY | COVID-19 Information × kumc.edu School of Health Professions School of Medicine School of Nursing University of Kansas The University of Kansas Health System The University of Kansas Cancer Center Search keywords, names, etc... Search within this section Search all sites Research Centers, Institutes and Cores Our Experts Research News Research Administration Human Research Protection Program Scheduling Research Facilities Our Campuses Make a Gift Info for Current Students Blackboard Webmail myKUMC Prospective Students Prospective Employees Alumni Faculty & Staff Residents & Fellows Patients Donors Researchers Visitors Our Campuses Make a Gift Info for kumc.edu Our Campuses Make a Gift Info for Academics Academics Prepare for your health care career with top-ranked programs, state-of-the-art facilities and unmatched opportunities for clinical training. Admissions & Aid Degree Programs International Education Clinical Education Interprofessional Education Libraries Student Handbooks Related Links: School of Health Professions School of Medicine School of Nursing Research Research Explore world-class research programs that advance the health sciences and attract national recognition. Centers, Institutes and Cores Our Experts Research News Research Administration Human Research Protection Program Scheduling Research Facilities Related Links: Student Research Forum Summer Research Training Program Patient Care Patient Care As an academic medical center, we work with The University of Kansas Health System and other regional partners to provide high-quality, compassionate clinical care. The University of Kansas Health System The University of Kansas Cancer Center Student-Run Clinics Clinical Education University and Faculty Practice Outreach Outreach We build partnerships throughout the state to find new ways to improve the lives of Kansans. Our community-based efforts extend across the country and around the world. Social Impact Rural Education Global Health Career Development Community Programs Outreach News Related Links: Community Engagement Masonic Cancer Alliance Student Life Student Life Our three campus communities offer unique social events and cultural attractions—the perfect backdrop to our world-class education programs. Student Support Activities & Events Diversity and Inclusion Wellness Why Kansas? Related Links: Office of Student Life Office of Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Office of International Programs About About The University of Kansas Medical Center's mission is to improve lives and communities in Kansas and beyond through innovation in education, research and health care. Our Campuses Diversity and Inclusion Wellness Leadership KU Medical Center Fast Facts Events Calendar News Maps & Contact Information Make a Gift Centers, Institutes and Cores Take part in groundbreaking research at one of more than 25 centers and institutes at KU Medical Center. Researchers at KU Medical Center are delivering on our mission to develop treatments and cures to benefit the health of people in Kansas and beyond. Our centers and institutes foster research and collaboration to generate new knowledge and advances in health care. Centers & Institutes | Research Cores Spotlight on Centers KU Cancer Center From undergraduates to post-doctoral fellows, students train at the KU Cancer Center in clinical and translational research, as well as carcinogenesis and cancer biology. KU Cancer Center KU Alzheimer's Disease Research Center Interested in tackling Alzheimer's disease? Explore student research opportunities, from undergraduate internships to post-doctoral fellowships. KU Alzheimer's Disease Research Center Frontiers: Clinical and Translational Science Institute Through Frontiers, students can work closely with mentors on interdisciplinary teams to help transform laboratory discoveries into treatments and cures. Frontiers: Clinical and Translational Science Institute Centers & Institutes Alzheimer's Disease Research Center Center for Children's Healthy Lifestyles and Nutrition Center for Health Informatics Center for Interprofessional Practice, Education and Research Center for Molecular Regulation of Cell Development and Differentiation Center for MS Care Center for Perinatal Research Center for Reproductive Sciences Center for Telemedicine & Telehealth Diabetes Institute Clinical Research Center Frontiers Hoglund Biomedical Imaging Center Institute for Advancing Medical Innovation Institute for Neurological Discoveries Institute for Reproduction and Perinatal Research Juntos: Center for Advancing Latino Health KansasIDeA Kansas Idea Network of Biomedical Research Excellence Kansas Institute for Precision Medicine COBRE Kansas Intellectual and Developmental Disabilities Research Center Kidney Institute Landon Center on Aging Liver Center Midwest Stem Cell Therapy Center PKD Research and Translation Core Center Zamierowski Institute for Experiential Learning Research Cores Analytical Core Biomedical Engineering Biobanking & Biomarker Validation Biostatistics & Data Science Bioinformatics Biospecimen Repository Core Facility Cell Isolation Core Confocal Imaging Facility Disease Model & Assessment Electron Microscopy Research Laboratory Flow Cytometry Core Laboratory Genome Sequencing Facility Histology Histopathology Core Imaging Laboratory Animal Resources Metabolic Facility Microarray Facility Mass Spectrometry/Proteomics Core Laboratory PKD Research Biomaterials and Cellular Models Core Posters, Graphics & Illustration Quantitative Omics Research Core Showcase Transgenic and Gene Targeting Facility Make a Gift 3901 Rainbow Boulevard, Kansas City, KS 66160 | 913-588-5000 About Calendar News Equal Opportunity Statement Careers Facebook opens in new tab Twitter opens in new tab YouTube opens in new tab Instagram opens in new tab LinkedIn opens in new tab © 2022 The University of Kansas prohibits discrimination on the basis of race, color, ethnicity, religion, sex, national origin, age, ancestry, disability, status as a veteran, sexual orientation, marital status, parental status, gender identity, gender expression, and genetic information in the university's programs and activities. Retaliation is also prohibited by university policy. Inquiries regarding our non-discrimination policies should be directed to the Director for the Equal Opportunity & Academic Compliance Office, Mail Stop 7004, 4330 Shawnee Mission Parkway, Fairway, KS 66205, 913-588-5964, 711 TTY (for the Wichita, Salina, and Kansas City, Kansas medical center campuses). Inquiries regarding the University Sexual Harassment Policy should be directed to the Title IX Coordinator at 913-588-8011. Free Expression Statement | Privacy Statement | Notice of Privacy Practices | Consumer Information We use cookies to analyze our traffic & provide social media features. Visit the KU Medical Center Privacy Statement for more information. By closing this window & browsing this site, you agree to our use of cookies.