Skip to main content Information For: Current Students Alumni Harvard Undergraduates Educators Recruiters Media Apply Give to HGSE Search Apply for Degree Programs Apply for Professional Education Donate Give back to HGSE and support the next generation of passionate educators and innovative leaders. Keywords Close Menu Degree Programs Professional Education Faculty & Research Usable Knowledge Keywords About HGSE About the Dean Dean's Welcome Messages from the Dean Commentary and Media Dean's Office History of HGSE Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Our Impact Campus and Facilities Office Directory Virtual Tour Gutman Conference Center Reservation Request Form Capacities and Cost Floor Plan Catering Policies Audio Visual Directions, Parking, and Hotels Map of HGSE Directions to HGSE History of HGSE Buildings Faculty & Staff Directory Work at HGSE Title IX Information Doctoral Degree Programs Doctor of Education Leadership Doctor of Philosophy in Education Brochures Academic Calendar Academic Catalog Doctoral Viewbook Master's Degree Program Master's in Education Programs Education Leadership, Organizations, and Entrepreneurship Education Policy and Analysis Human Development and Education Learning Design, Innovation, and Technology Teaching and Teacher Leadership Concentrations Arts and Learning Early Childhood Global, International, and Comparative Education Higher Education Identity, Power, and Justice in Education Literacy and Languages A Personalized Approach Online Master's in Education Leadership Foundations Brochures Academic Catalog Academic Calendar Academic Year 2020-22 Programs Professional Education About Us Programs Early Childhood K-12 Higher Education Online Programs For Organizations Group and Team Enrollment Custom Programs Admissions Payment & Tuition Assistance Refunds & Withdrawals Policies and Accessibility Campus Experience On-Campus Program Health and Safety Policies FAQs Events Contact Faculty & Research Faculty Directory Centers, Projects and Initiatives Faculty Recruitment Faculty Experts Admissions Introduce Yourself Explore Find the Right Program Brochures Life at HGSE Connect Apply Refer a Candidate Frequently Asked Questions Financial Aid HGSE & Harvard University Consumer Information Tuition & Costs Applying for Aid Incoming Students Incoming International Students Continuing Students Scholarships, Fellowships & Grants Need-Based Grant Awards HGSE Fellowships Additional Fellowships External Fellowships Student Loans Student Work International Students International Applicant FAQ Funding Sources Students with Families Financial Aid Appeals Presentations & Publications Budgeting & Financial Literacy Budget Calculator Registrar News & Events Harvard Edcast Education Now Askwith Education Forum Upcoming Events Submit an Event Usable Knowledge Ed. Magazine Harvard Education Publishing Group Information for Media Education Now Usable Knowledge Usable Knowledge Harvard EdCast Ed. Magazine HGSE Centennial Community Learning Beyond the Classroom Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Organizations and Initiatives Community Events and Action Resources Teaching and Learning Gutman Library Services Alumni Services Collections Special Collections Request for Library Purchase Library Hours Websites for Educators About the Library Facilities & Equipment Contact Information Coronavirus Response Information Directory Calendar Alumni Network & Connect Get Involved Learn & Grow Benefits & Services my.harvard Student Handbook Introduction Welcome to HGSE Preface Commitment to Diversity Part 1: Enrollment Policies Academic Programs and Affiliations Registration and Enrollment Policies Tuition and Fees Financial Aid Student Health Insurance Grading Part 2: Student Supports Advising HGSE Supports University Supports Campus Safety and Security Part 3: Program Policies Academic Governance Doctor of Education (Ed.D.) Program Policies Doctor of Philosophy in Education (Ph.D.) Program Policies Doctor of Education Leadership (Ed.L.D.) Program Policies Master of Education (Ed.M.) Program Policies Part 4: Academic Integrity and Standards of Conduct Resolution on Rights and Responsibilities Academic Standards and Integrity Standards of Conduct in the Harvard Community Committee on Rights and Responsibilities Policies on Harassment and Discrimination Policy on Consensual Romantic Relationships Policy on Physical Violence Policy on Misrepresentation of Status Policy on Illicit Substances Policy on Hazing Policy on Threats Part 5: Copyright and Publishing Policies Copyright Disclosure Use of the Harvard Name Information For Current Students Alumni Harvard Undergraduates Educators Recruiters Media Connect with HGSE Facebook Twitter Linked In LinkedIn Symbols Created with Sketch. Instagram About HGSE Policies Room Reservations Use of GCC space is confirmed at the time the GCC office receives a signed contract from the client. Signing and returning the contract is the only way to guarantee the use of meeting space. Please note that storage is limited. If you need to set up your materials ahead of your event or to leave them overnight for a multi-day event, you will be charged for the use of the space, as it prevents rental by another client. Additionally, if you need to have material sent over ahead of your event, you will need to check availability of storage space. A fee will apply for the storage and relocation of this material ahead of your event. Cancellation Event cancellations made within 30 days of the event are subject to a fee equal to 50% of the cost of the meeting space. Event cancellations made within 1 week of the event are subject to a fee equal to 100% of the cost of the meeting space. GCC Staff Charges GCC staff charges are based on a whole-hour rate of $20 per hour, per person. All external groups are charged for all hours during the event + 1 hour before and after the event for set-up and break-down. HGSE departments are charged only for time beyond normal business hours of Monday through Friday, 9:00 AM to 5:00 PM. Multiple staff members may be assigned based on the size and complexity of a given event. All groups are charged $30 per hour for security beyond normal Gutman Library operation hours with a 4-hour minimum. Catering All catering is organized and ordered through Rebecca’s Cafe. Groups are not allowed to self-cater, or bring in unauthorized food and beverages. Linen is required for all service tables but is optional for dining tables. Linens should be ordered through Rebecca’s Cafe. Alcoholic beverages may be served but a bartender and per-head liquor liability insurance are required in accordance with the HGSE Alcohol Policy. All arrangements should be made through Rebecca’s Cafe. Media Services HGSE departments must organize their media needs directly through the Learning and Technology Center. External groups organize their meeting needs through the GCC office. See our Media page for details on equipment and cost. Music & Entertainment Because the GCC is located in a library setting, music and entertainment requires advance permission. ADA Accessibility The Gutman Library and GCC have ADA-accessible entrances and bathrooms. Phone, Fax & Internet Pay phones are located in the lobby of the Gutman Library. Computer access for event participants must be arranged for in advance. Computers located in the Library lobby are for HGSE student use only. Wireless access to the Internet is available in the GCC and all classroom spaces at HGSE. Wired access is available upon request. Billing & Payment Invoices are usually prepared and sent out via fax or e-mail within one week. Groups may pay their charges by using their 33 digit Harvard billing code. Transfers are only processed with written permission from the client: either via e-mail or signed invoice. Credit cards are not accepted. Policies on the Use of the Harvard Name Visit the Office of the Provost at Harvard for the policy on the use of Harvard names and insignias. In this section About HGSE About the Dean Dean's Welcome Messages from the Dean Commentary and Media Dean's Office History of HGSE Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Our Impact Campus and Facilities Office Directory Virtual Tour Gutman Conference Center Reservation Request Form Capacities and Cost Floor Plan Catering Policies Audio Visual Directions, Parking, and Hotels Map of HGSE Directions to HGSE History of HGSE Buildings Faculty & Staff Directory Work at HGSE Title IX Information About HGSE About HGSE About the Dean Dean's Welcome Messages from the Dean Commentary and Media Dean's Office History of HGSE Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Our Impact Campus and Facilities Office Directory Virtual Tour Gutman Conference Center Reservation Request Form Capacities and Cost Floor Plan Catering Policies Audio Visual Directions, Parking, and Hotels Map of HGSE Directions to HGSE History of HGSE Buildings Faculty & Staff Directory Work at HGSE Title IX Information Sign up for our newsletters to get the latest from the Harvard Graduate School of Education. Sign Up Now Artboard 1 13 Appian Way | Cambridge, MA 02138 Centennial Contact Us Directory Directions Harvard University ©2022 President and Fellows of Harvard College Linked In Symbols Created with Sketch. Youtube RSS Podcast HGSE Publishing Policies & Disclaimers Digital Accessibility Policy Privacy Policy Trademark Notice