Skip to main content Top Bar PENN SUSTAINABILITY HOME News Contact View Upcoming Events » Main navigation Our Commitment Overview President's Message About Penn Sustainability Our Plan Our History Our Team Annual Progress Reports STARS Plan Videos Initiatives Overview Learning Sustainability Conserving Energy Designing Green Minimizing Waste Reducing Emissions Purchasing Practices Eating Local Wellness Partners Overview Academic Centers Schools and Centers Student Groups Morris Arboretum Resources Overview FAQs Guides & Manuals Tours and Maps Participate Overview Students Staff and Faculty Penn Community Minimizing Waste Waste minimization and recycling at Penn Since Penn's 2009 Climate Action Plan, waste reduction, reuse, and recycling practices have expanded dramatically. The university now collects over 10 types of specialty waste. Single stream recycling is now standard across the University, with many Schools and Centers offering specialty recycling options including e-waste, batteries, and light bulbs. In the face of such steady improvement, recent well-publicized global shifts across the entire recycling marketplace, from global to local levels, have led to a re-evaluation of recycling and diversion practices, putting more focus on holistic waste minimization and diversion approaches. To download the featured waste pictograms and find additional information on waste management visit the Facilities & Real Estate Services website. Landfill Trash Waste that cannot be diverted through one of the other waste streams. Includes Styrofoam, and (when composting is not available) food waste. Single-stream Recycling Glass, rigid plastics, soft plastics (bags, wrap, etc.) metal, paper, and cardboard. Rinse plastic food containers and empty liquids from bottles before placing in the bin. Compost Food waste and leaves. Electronic Waste “E-waste” - electronic equipment such as computers, monitors, alkaline and lithium batteries, cell phones, charging cords, and more. Miscellaneous Waste Shoes, textbooks, writing utensils, etc. See our Special Recycling and Reuse Collections page for more information. Additional Resources Check out some additional resources on our website: Deskside Recycling and Centralized Trash Guide Green Events Guide Recycling In Your Residence Off-Campus Recycling Guide Bin Pairing Standards Penn Sustainability 3101 Walnut Street Philadelphia, PA 19104 sustainability@upenn.edu Social Links Our Committment Penn's 2042 Carbon Neutrality Goal Power Purchase Agreement: A 25-Year Commitment The Plan The University of Pennsylvania's Climate and Sustainability Action Plan Penn Sustainability ENewsletter Subscribe to our E-Newsletter » Program Highlights Student Eco-Reps Green Fund Staff and Faculty Eco-Reps Green Labs Footer Report Accessibility Issues and Get Help Disclaimer Copyright Information Privacy Policy © 2022 University of Pennsylvania Website Design and Programming: 4x3, LLC