Texas Tech University Directory Raiderlink A-Z Index Student Health Services Menu Search TTU Student Health Services New Students Immunization Compliance with Med+Proctor Texas Senate Bill 1107 (now TEC 51.9192) requires all students1 entering an institution of higher education (public and private) to either receive a vaccination against bacterial meningitis or meet certain criteria for declining such a vaccination2 . Texas Tech University requires proof of vaccination prior to registering for classes for the first time. Extensions may be requested and will be evaluated on a case-by-case basis; in every instance a student must provide their vaccination record prior to the state mandated deadline of 10 days prior to the first day of class. Texas Tech University has partnered with Med+Proctor to manage these records and process your immunization hold. To understand the process, watch this brief video: Once you've been admitted as a student, register with Med+Proctor and submit your meningitis immunization record to have your Immunization Hold removed. Click the Med+Proctor logo to get started! Evidence of Vaccination for Bacterial Meningitis3 Please note: To meet the state's Meningitis requirement, you must submit proof of the MCV4 (sold as Menactra, MenHibrix, and Menveo) or MPSV4 (sold as Menomune) version of the Meningitis vaccine. Meningitis serogroup B vaccine (sold as Bexsero and Trumenba) only prevents illness from a single strand of Meningitis and will not be accepted to meet the state's Meningitis vaccine requirement. Students who will be 22 or older on the first day of the semester are not required to submit a current meningitis vaccine. Evidence of vaccination must verify that the vaccination was received during the five year period prior to and no later than 10 days before the first day of the semester. Entering Spring 2022 - Meningitis vaccine must be on or after 01/05/2017 Entering Summer I 2022 - Meningitis vaccine must be on or after 06/01/2017 Entering Summer II 2022 - Meningitis vaccine must be on or after 07/05/2017 Entering Fall 2022 – Meningitis vaccine must be on or after 08/25/2017 Evidence of vaccinations must be submitted through Med+Proctor. Exceptions to the Immunization Compliance requirement are as follows: Students who are enrolled in an online degree program are not required to meet Immunization Compliance. If a student cannot receive the vaccine because it would be injurious to your health and well-being: Provide an affidavit or a letter signed by a physician who is duly registered and licensed to practice medicine in the United States, in which it is stated that, in the physician's opinion, the vaccination required would be injurious to the health and well-being of the student. If a student declines the vaccine due to reasons of conscience, including a religious belief: Before you will be allowed to register for classes, you must complete and submit an original, Texas Department of State Health Services (TDSHS) Vaccine Exemption Affidavit Form- Affidavit Request for Exemption from Immunizations for Reasons of Conscience. This is the only acceptable documentation for this exemption, and this process takes a significant amount of time. The notarized affidavit can either be uploaded to Med+Proctor as a PDF or the original document sent to Texas Tech University Student Health Services within 90 days of it being notarized. If you choose to send the document to Student Health Services, you may mail the original notarized document to the following address: Mailing Address for Affidavit: Student Wellness Center, 3601 4th Street, MS 7208, Lubbock, TX 79430 Hand Delivery Address for Affidavit: Student Wellness Center, 1003 Flint St., Lubbock, TX 79409 Questions? Med+Proctor Support Live Chat | FAQ | Getting Started Are You a Transfer Student? If you already submitted your records to Med+Proctor as a student from another college or university, your records can be transferred to your TTU account! Step 1: Register a new account with your @ttu.edu email address. Step 2: Chat with a Med+Proctor representative and request your records be transferred to your new account. You are all set! Student Health Services Address Texas Tech University, Student Wellness Center, 1003 Flint (Corner of Flint and Main) Lubbock, TX 79409 Phone 806.743.2848 Email studenthealthservices@ttuhsc.edu Texas Tech University 2500 Broadway Lubbock, Texas 79409 806.742.2011 Follow Texas Tech University Like Texas Tech University on FacebookLike Texas Tech University on Facebook Follow Texas Tech University on twitterFollow Texas Tech University on twitter Check in with Texas Tech University on FourSquareCheck in with Texas Tech University on FourSquare Subscribe to Texas Tech University on YouTubeSubscribe to Texas Tech University on YouTube Follow Texas Tech University on FlickrFollow Texas Tech University on Flickr Follow Texas Tech University on InstagramFollow Texas Tech University on Instagram Connect with Texas Tech University on LinkedInConnect with Texas Tech University on LinkedIn Contact Texas Tech UniversityContact Texas Tech University Contact Us Campus Map Jobs @ TTU Emergency Communication Center General Policy Information Public Access to Course Info Energy Management Mental Health Resources Title IX Fraud and Misconduct Hotline Online Institutional Resumes TTU System TTU Health Sciences Center TTUHSC El Paso Angelo State University Midwestern State University Statewide Search State of Texas Texas Homeland Security Texas Veterans Portal Texas CREWS SAO Fraud Reporting Open Records Requests © 2022 Texas Tech UniversityMay 3, 2022 11:02 AM Student Health Services COVID-19 Student Health Services Back COVID-19 Information COVID-19 Quick Links Student Health Services Back TTU Testing Locations TTU COVID-19 Management System/Report a positive case/Self-Screening/Vaccine Wait List TTU COVID-19 Guidelines COVID-19 Vaccine Guidance for Additional and Booster Doses Coping with Stress COVID-19 Q&A COVID-19 Vaccine Q&A FDA Approval of COVID-19 Vaccine Need Care? Student Health Services Need Care? Back MyTeamCare Virtual Clinic Planning your visit Student Health Services Need Care? Back New Patients Return Patients A Note for Graduate Students The Services We Provide Student Health Services Need Care? Back Primary and Urgent Care Women's Health Integrated Mental Health Care Sports Medicine Nurse Clinic and Nurse Advice Messaging Center Travel Health Lab Services X-Ray Services Full Service Pharmacy Get to know your care team Student Health Services Need Care? Back Primary Care Providers Integrated Behavioral Health Team Nurses Patient Service Specialists Pharmacy, Lab and X-Ray Administration and Finance Student Basic Needs MyTeamCare Patient Portal ADHD Services Student Health Services Back I would like to be evaluated for ADHD I need my ADHD prescription filled ADHD FAQ Charges, Billing and Insurance Student Health Services Charges, Billing and Insurance Back Insurance Student Health Services Charges, Billing and Insurance Back I don't have health insurance. Can I be seen at Student Health Services? I have health insurance. How do I use my health insurance at Student Health Services? I have Medicaid/Medicare. What other insurance options do I have? Insurance Information for Non-Immigrant Students Charges and Billing Student Health Services Charges, Billing and Insurance Back Missed Appointment Fee Understanding the Payment and Billing Process What is the Student Health and Wellness Fee? Insurance Resources for International Students and other AHP Subscribers Student Health Services Charges, Billing and Insurance Back Your AHP Insurance in Action Take me to my Plan 12 Tips for AHP Subscribers AHP Insurance FAQ's Immunization and Medical Clearance Requirements Student Health Services Immunization and Medical Clearance Requirements Back New Students International Students Study Abroad Travel Health Student Health Services Immunization and Medical Clearance Requirements Travel Health Back International Travel Health Questionnaire-Non Study Abroad FAQ, Quick Links and Forms Student Health Services Back FAQ Student Health Services Back Appointments How can I obtain a copy of my records? Non-Immigrant Student Insurance Information Pharmacy, Lab and X-Ray Privacy TB Questions Visiting Student Health During the Summer More FAQ Quick Links Student Health Services Back Academic HealthPlans 2021-2022 Academic Health Plan Highlight Flyer Community Health Clinics Print your AHP Insurance Card Med+Proctor Mental Health Resources MyTeamCare Red Raider Orientation (RRO) RISE Student Business Services Travel Health Immunization Upload Center Forms Student Health Services Back Missed Appointment Fee Appeal Form Request an Interview Release of Information TTUHSC Dallas Additional Resources TTU HomeDirectory Raiderlink A-Z Index