Skip to main content Skip to main navigation Paul L. Foster Success Center University Advisement Menu About Our Office UA Staff Alec Daugherty Natalie Terry Fendt Gretel Hill Lance Lowe Carrie Marley Virginia Martinez Laura Scott Bob Shipp Leah Smith Terrie Alcala Search Our Site Calendar of Events Major Exploration Majors List Majors List in Arts & Sciences Pre-Majors Secondary Majors Faculty Mentors Majors Fair New Students For New Freshman Students - Fall/Summer For New Transfer Students - Summer/Fall Transfer Points of Contact Baylor Course Placement Math Placement - ALEKS Majors and Programs that May Require Calculus CHE 1301 Prerequisite Information Majors and Programs that May Require Chemistry 1301 ALEKS Quick Start Guide Credit by Exam For Veterans Current Students Academic Planning Co-Curricular Activities Major Academic Planners (MAPs) Schedule of Classes Transferring Course Credits Use the Undergraduate Catalog Who is my Advisor? (Current Students) Changing Major/Minor/Program Schedule Modifications BearWeb Registration Instructions Before You Drop a Course Waitlist Information FERPA Baylor Course Placement Faculty/Staff Advisors Advising Guidance Professional Development ADVISE Professional Readings Recommendations Day of the Advisor Professional Conferences Advisor Tools Navigate (SSC) Academic Progress Reports Advising Community Advising Documentation Advising Handbook Campus Resource Index Change of Major Procedures Counseling Center Curriculum Updates How to Read a Degree Audit Majors and Minors Planning Ahead Report It! Satisfactory Academic Progress Waitlist Procedures Advising Excellence Awards Program New Retention Model Outreach Info New Student Advising and Registration 2022 Make a Gift Baylor>University Advisement>Current Students>Changing Major/Minor/Program Changing Major / Minor / Program How do I change my major/degree/minor? You will begin the process to change or update your major, degree and/or minor in BearWeb > Student Academic Services > Student Records > Change of Major Request. What happens when I submit the request? An email will be sent to the person responsible for the academic area that you selected. You will receive a response within 48 hours (regular workdays) from the academic area of the major, degree, minor requested, giving instructions for processing the change. What are the steps in the procedure via BearWeb? Your current academic information will prepopulate – Name, ID, Degree, Major (s), Minor(s), Ed Goal. You will select an action – to change or add to current curriculum; Select your new program from a drop-down menu to change your degree/major (Note: Only pre-majors are available for selection for programs that begin at that level and only one major is an option.) Select a minor – if applicable; only one option A comment block is available to explain changes or additions. You can comment if more than one major or minor is desired. You can also enter a detailed explanation of your changes or additions. What happens when I enter the requested change my major/degree/minor? Your request window pops up for review with option to submit or change the information. If you want to change any information, before you submit, you have an option to do so. If submitted, an email goes to the designated area where the change will be processed. You will receive confirmation that request was submitted. When should I expect a response to my request to change my major/degree/minor? You will receive a response within 48 hours (regular workdays) from the academic area of the major, degree, minor requested, giving instructions for processing the change. Each area will operate slightly differently once you submit your request. Some have a specific message concerning completing a form, meeting with an advisor, auditioning, holding for term grades, etc. Where will I find a list of majors and minors? To find a list of majors and minors under each degree offered at Baylor, see the Undergraduate Catalog or go to www.baylor.edu/admissions/majors. How do NON-DEGREE SEEKING STUDENTS change or declare a major? Non-degree seeking students must contact Admission Services to change/declare a major. How do STUDENT ATHLETES change a major/degree/minor? Student athletes must see their academic coach in the Student Athlete Center for Excellence to request a change of major. The SACE academic coach will contact the appropriate advising area if the change is approved. What if I want to change my major to UNDECIDED? Once you are on the change of major request form in BearWeb, you would select "Undecided" as your new major on the BearWeb form. What if I don’t find the major/degree/minor I’m looking for on the BearWeb form? Contact University Advisement: UA_COM@baylor.edu; University Advisement, Room 103, Sid Richardson Building; 254.710.7280. Why are PRE-MAJORS on the list? Some programs require that you begin in a pre-major. After entrance requirements are satisfied, your major will be changed systematically. The current pre-major programs are: Business (any major), Engineering, Film & Digital Media, Health Science Studies, Medical Humanities, Neuroscience, Nursing, Psychology, and Social Work. How do I change an Education Goal? (Pre-Medical, Pre-Physical Therapy, Pre-Law, etc.) Educational goals are not majors; they are designations that indicate a student’s professional plans following completion of the undergraduate degree and allow any major of your choosing. Your assigned advisor can add, change, or delete an educational goal. (Pre-Medical, Pre-Dental, Pre-Occupational Therapy, Pre-Optometry, Pre-Pharmacy, Pre-Physical Therapy, Pre-Physician Assistant, Pre-Podiatry, Pre-Veterinary, and Pre-Law). To find a list of majors and minors under each degree offered at Baylor, see the Undergraduate Catalog or go to www.baylor.edu/admissions/majors. Current Students Academic Planning Co-Curricular Activities Major Academic Planners (MAPs) Schedule of Classes Transferring Course Credits Use the Undergraduate Catalog Who is my Advisor? (Current Students) Changing Major/Minor/Program Schedule Modifications BearWeb Registration Instructions Before You Drop a Course Before You Drop -- Prehealth Students Before You Drop -- Prelaw Students Waitlist Information FERPA Baylor Course Placement University Advisement Paul L. Foster Success Center Sid Richardson (East Wing), Room 230 Waco, TX 76798 (254) 710-7280 University_Advisement@baylor.edu Paul L. Foster Success Center Make a Gift Navigate Registrar Student Financial Aid General Information Colleges, Schools, Libraries & Research Admissions Administration Gateways For... About Baylor Anonymous Reporting Athletics Ask Baylor Bookstore Calendar Campus Map Directory Give Light Give to Baylor Illuminate Mental Health Resources News Pro Futuris Report It Search Social Media Title IX Baylor Libraries College of Arts & Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work George W. Truett Theological Seminary Graduate School Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Louise Herrington School of Nursing Research at Baylor University Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Engineering & Computer Science School of Music More Academics Undergraduate Admissions goBAYLOR Graduate Admissions Baylor Law School Admissions Social Work Graduate Programs George W. Truett Theological Seminary Admissions Online Graduate Professional Education Virtual Tour Visit Campus Annual Fire Safety and Security Notice Athletics Human Resources Marketing and Communications Office of General Counsel Office of the President Office of the Provost Operations, Finance & Administration Senior Administration Student Life University Advancement Baylor Alumni Faculty & Staff Online Graduate Professional Education Parents Prospective Faculty & Staff Prospective Students Students Copyright © Baylor® University. All rights reserved. Legal Disclosures. Baylor University • Waco, Texas 76798 • 1-800-229-5678 About Our Office UA Staff Alec Daugherty Natalie Terry Fendt Gretel Hill Lance Lowe Carrie Marley Virginia Martinez Laura Scott Bob Shipp Leah Smith Terrie Alcala Search Our Site Calendar of Events Major Exploration Majors List Majors List in Arts & Sciences Pre-Majors Secondary Majors Faculty Mentors Majors Fair New Students For New Freshman Students - Fall/Summer For New Transfer Students - Summer/Fall Transfer Points of Contact Baylor Course Placement Math Placement - ALEKS Majors and Programs that May Require Calculus CHE 1301 Prerequisite Information Majors and Programs that May Require Chemistry 1301 ALEKS Quick Start Guide Credit by Exam For Veterans Current Students Academic Planning Co-Curricular Activities Major Academic Planners (MAPs) Schedule of Classes Transferring Course Credits Use the Undergraduate Catalog Who is my Advisor? (Current Students) Changing Major/Minor/Program Schedule Modifications BearWeb Registration Instructions Before You Drop a Course Waitlist Information FERPA Baylor Course Placement Faculty/Staff Advisors Advising Guidance Professional Development ADVISE Professional Readings Recommendations Day of the Advisor Professional Conferences Advisor Tools Navigate (SSC) Academic Progress Reports Advising Community Advising Documentation Advising Handbook Campus Resource Index Change of Major Procedures Counseling Center Curriculum Updates How to Read a Degree Audit Majors and Minors Planning Ahead Report It! Satisfactory Academic Progress Waitlist Procedures Advising Excellence Awards Program New Retention Model Outreach Info New Student Advising and Registration 2022 Make a Gift