Skip to main content Menu Resources Home Admissions Campus Life Academics Visit Outreach Research About Apply or Give Apply Now Make a Gift Style Guide Web Template The 1889 template is a theme to help Clemson's marketers and web developers quickly create websites that are responsive, dynamic, and on-brand. It was built with the foundation framework and utilizes the university's content management system and hand-coded magic. Note: the information here only applies to new sites built with this matching template and will not work for the college or legacy templates. Structure Grid » Block Grid » Visibility Classes » Basics Colors » Typography » Icons » Page Elements Lists » Accordions and Tabs » Buttons » Panels and Borders » Spotlights » Multimedia Images » Videos » Slideshows » Dynamic Elements Calendar and Events Feed » RSS/News Feed » Sample Pages Below are layouts to help you see how the above elements can work together along with some best practices. These are available as preconfigured asset factories within Cascade, but you're free to cherry pick and rearrange elements in whatever way makes sense for your specific content and audience. Dynamic Homepage » Shows an example of a homepage that utilizes the full width of the template along with dynamic feeds from Newsstand and the calendar. Static Homepage » An alternative homepage that mirrors the layout of a subpage with navigation to the left. This example also offers more static content (for groups without relevant or active feeds), though is certainly not excluded from using these dynamic elements. Basic Subpage » A basic content page that represents the "meat" of most websites. Includes an example of a table and an image. Resource Page » An example of how we've laid out pages that are link heavy. Sample Form » A reference that includes your typical inputs along with the code necessary to take advantage of the university's FormMail script. Also offers an example of how to organize a form using the grid and fieldsets. Contact Us » An example of how we've laid out Contact Us pages. Frequently Asked Questions » An example of how we've designed pages for questions and answers. Home Accordions and Tabs Block Grid Buttons Calendar and Events Colors Grid Icons Images Lists Panels and Borders RSS/News Feed Spotlights Typography Visibility Classes Example Layouts Form-helpers Home Admissions Campus Life Academics Visit Outreach Research About Apply To Clemson Undergraduate Graduate Professional Online Education Employment Opportunities Policy/Terms of Use Text Version Web Accessibility Ethics/Safety Hotline Privacy Policy Site Information Copyright © 2022 Clemson University Clemson, South Carolina 29634 864-656-3311 Contact Clemson Stories for the Clemson Family Clemson University on Facebook Clemson University on Twitter Clemson University on LinkedIn Clemson University on Flickr Clemson University on Instagram