Skip to navigation Skip to main content Columbia College Main Menu About the College Mission History Leadership Strategic Plan My Columbia College Journey Our Commitment to Diversity, Equity and Inclusion News and Updates Visit Columbia College Awards The Core Curriculum Contemporary Civilization Literature Humanities Art Humanities Music Humanities University Writing Frontiers of Science Global Core Requirement Center for the Core Curriculum Academics Current Bulletin Archived Bulletins Academic Credit Academic Coursework Academic Advising and Support Academic Opportunities Academic Honors, Awards and Prizes Academic Integrity Academic Affairs Advising Berick Center for Student Advising Career Advising Fellowship Advising Financial Aid Advising Global Programs Advising Major Advising Preprofessional Advising Admissions Financial Aid Learn About Columbia Visit Columbia Apply to Columbia Campus Life Undergraduate Student Life Student Resources Supporting the College Audiences Faculty Families Alumni Search Home / Student Resources Student Resources Undergraduate wellbeing resources can be found on the Live Well | Learn Well site. Send us your feedback and tell us about any missing or broken links at columbiacollege@columbia.edu. Academics Academic Calendar Important dates, deadlines and holidays for the academic year. Academic Concerns, Complaints and Grievances Information on the Columbia College process for expressing academic concerns, complaints and grievances. Academic Honors Information about the Dean's List, College (Latin) Honors, the Valedictorian and Salutatorian, Departmental Honors and Phi Beta Kappa. Academic Integrity Learn strategies for developing original work, ways to ensure that your work is trustworthy, the consequences for submitting work that is dishonest, and the resources available to assist you in achieving your best work. Academic Petitions The Committee on Academic Standing and Academic Planning and Administration are charged with upholding the academic policies established by the faculty. Academic Planning and Administration Academic Planning and Administration is composed of the Office of Academic Planning and Administration, the Center for the Core Curriculum, and The James H. and Christine Turk Berick Center for Student Advising. Academic Prizes Information about general academic prizes and prizes in the Core Curriculum, the humanities, the social sciences, the natural and physical sciences, and the creative and performing arts. College Faculty Committees Information on the Committee on the Core, the Committee on Science Instruction and the Committee on the Global Core. Columbia College Advising The James H. and Christine Turk Berick Center for Student Advising: get help with Columbia College academic requirements, schedule an appointment with your advising dean and view the academic calendar. Columbia College Bulletin Department information and course descriptions. Core Curriculum The Core Curriculum is the set of common courses required of all Columbia College students and considered the necessary general education for students, irrespective of their choice in major. CourseWorks Course information, rosters, and shared files. Find a Course Search for courses from departments across the University. Graduation The most current graduation information for graduating undergraduates and their families. GradZone Information for graduating CC and SEAS students, including a Senior Year Checklist, a Schedule of Ceremonies, and information for international students, family and guests. Honor Code Pledge taken by all Columbia College students. Pre-Professional Advising Assistance in selecting, preparing for and applying to professional graduate schools. Registrar Get help with registration, grades and exams, graduation and diplomas, academic certification, transcripts, withdrawal, personal information and online class wait lists. Requirements Columbia College requirements for the degree of Bachelor of Arts. Transcripts Request a transcript. Vergil A web application that assists students with course planning prior to registration, consolidating course information from the Directory of Classes, CourseWorks and the Columbia College Bulletin. Academics — Help Academic Integrity Learn strategies for developing original work, ways to ensure that your work is trustworthy, the consequences for submitting work that is dishonest, and the resources available to assist you in achieving your best work. Academic Support Academic Resources in Support of Excellence (ARISE) offers resources for students having difficulties in a particular course or with academic expectations in general. Contact a Library Subject Specialist Liason Contact the librarians who are responsible for maintaining effective contact between the Libraries and specific academic subjects and groups. Library Help Ask a librarian: online and in-person consultation with librarians for reference and research assistance. Library Services for Undergraduates Columbia University Libraries (CUL) offer a wealth of collections, spaces and services to support your research, study and learning. This guide highlights information selected especially for undergraduate students. Tutoring — CSA Tutoring Service CSA Tutoring Service offers free tutoring in for all CC and SEAS undergraduates in select courses. Academics — Libraries & Research Contact a Library Subject Specialist Liason Contact the librarians who are responsible for maintaining effective contact between the Libraries and specific academic subjects and groups. Density by ADI The Application Development Initiative (ADI), a student group that seeks to nurture student creativity and technological aptitude, has created a tool to estimate how full study spaces on campus are based on Wi-Fi data. Libraries/Information Services Columbia's twenty-two libraries including affiliates, a system which ranks as one of the top five academic libraries in the nation. Library Chargers Chargers for Mac, Toshiba and Dell computers are available for four-hour loans to students, faculty and staff who have forgotten their laptop chargers.Chargers may be checked out from the Butler Library Reserves desk (208 Butler Library). Library Help Ask a librarian: online and in-person consultation with librarians for reference and research assistance. Library Room Reservations Reserve a room for collaborative group study and/or presentation practice. Library Services for Undergraduates Columbia University Libraries (CUL) offer a wealth of collections, spaces and services to support your research, study and learning. This guide highlights information selected especially for undergraduate students. Research Opportunities Undergraduate research opportunities. Senior Thesis Funding Columbia College is able to provide a small research fund to students conducting approved research for their senior theses. Study Spaces Looking for a place to study? Check out the variety of available study spaces on campus. Study Spaces Open Now Check which libraries and study spaces are open now, as well as when they will be closing. Academics — Special Programs Accelerated Interdisciplinary Legal Education Program The Accelerated Interdisciplinary Legal Education (AILE) Program annually provides up to one or two Columbia College students with outstanding records the opportunity to earn both B.A. and J.D. degrees in six years. Accelerated Program in Sustainable Development and Sustainability Management The Accelerated Program in Sustainable Development and Sustainability Management allows students to earn both a Bachelor of Arts in Sustainable Development and a Master of Science in Sustainability Management in 5 years. B.A./M.A. with Columbia Graduate School of Arts and Sciences This program allows students to receive a deferred admission decision to the M.A. program of their choice during their junior or senior year, and undertake graduate-level coursework while still undergraduates. Columbia Undergraduate Scholars Program Information for John W. Kluge, John Jay, C. Prescott Davis, Global and Egelston Scholars, as well as Science Research Fellows. Combined Programs — CC and SEAS Information on the Columbia College/SEAS dual-degree programs. Combined Programs — Columbia College and Juilliard Exceptionally talented Columbia College students may have access to instrumental, jazz, composition or voice instruction and other resources through two distinct programs. Combined Programs — Columbia College and SIPA The Five Year Dual Degree Program with the School of International and Political Affairs gives students the opportunity to earn a Master of International Affairs or Master of Public Policy degree in conjunction with their undergraduate degree. Howard-Spelman Domestic Exchange Information on Columbia's domestic exchange program with prominent historically black college and universities, Howard University (Washington, D.C.), and Spelman College (Atlanta, Georgia). Administration & Faculty Academic Planning and Administration Staff Meet the staff of Academic Planning and Administration. Athletics Staff Meet the staff of Columbia Athletics. Berick Center for Student Advising Staff Meet the staff of the James H. and Christine Turk Berick Center for Student Advising. Center for Career Education Staff Meet the staff of the Center for Career Education. Center for the Core Curriculum Staff Meet the staff of the Center for the Core Curriculum. Central Projects and Programs Staff Meet the staff of Columbia College Central Projects and Programs staff. Columbia College Administration and Faculty Meet the Columbia College administration and faculty. Columbia College Alumni Affairs and Development Staff Meet the staff of the Office of Columbia College Alumni Affairs and Development. Columbia University Administration Meet the University administration. Dean of the College Learn more about Columbia College Dean James J. Valentini. Dining Staff Meet the staff of Columbia Dining. Directors of Undergraduate Studies Contact information for all Directors of Undergraduate Studies. Financial Aid and Educational Financing Staff Meet the staff of the Office of Financial Aid and Educational Financing. Housing Staff Meet the staff of Columbia Housing. Office of Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action Staff Meet the staff of the Office of Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action, including Title IX contacts, Section 504 contacts, and confidential community resources and contacts. Office of Global Programs Staff Meet the staff of the Office of Global Programs. Office of University Life Staff Meet the staff of the Office of University Life. President of the University Learn more about University President Lee C. Bollinger. Student Engagement Staff Meet the staff of Student Engagement. Undergraduate Student Life Staff Meet the staff of Undergraduate Student Life. University Event Management Staff Meet the staff of University Event Management. Advising Career Advising Find jobs, internships, and plan for your career. Columbia College Advising The James H. and Christine Turk Berick Center for Student Advising: get help with Columbia College academic requirements, schedule an appointment with your advising dean and view the academic calendar. Peer Advising — Office of Global Programs A group of Columbia students who have returned from a semester or year abroad and are interested in sharing their experience of study abroad with fellow students. Pre-Professional Advising Assistance in selecting, preparing for and applying to professional graduate schools. Student Group Advising Get help with planning events, navigating Columbia's rules and understanding budget allocations. Study Abroad Advising Get help and advice selecting and applying to Columbia's Global Programs. Arts on Campus Alternative Spring Break — New York City Performing Arts The Alternative Spring Break: New York City Performing Arts is a six-day, multidisciplinary program of events focusing on professional performing arts in New York City. Arts Initiative/TIC Center Engage in the cultural riches of Columbia University and New York City with tickets to music, theater, museums and more. Columbia Arts Experience The Columbia Arts Experience (CAE) internship program provides selected students with a New York-based internship in the arts. CUPAL — Columbia University Performing Arts League Facilitates discussion between groups regarding the University arts community as a whole, encourages the sharing of resources between groups, and serves as an advisory board to any newly-formed performing arts groups or special projects. Gatsby Student Arts Support Fund Learn how to apply for a Gatsby Student Arts Support Fund grant to gain funding for student arts projects (as individuals or Columbia-recognized student groups). Live at Lerner Live at Lerner provides a variety of educational, cultural and entertainment events in Alfred Lerner Hall and throughout campus for the entire campus community. Miller Theatre In partnership with Columbia University School of the Arts, Miller is dedicated to producing and presenting unique events, with a focus on contemporary and early music, jazz, opera and multimedia performances. Music at St. Paul's Music at St. Paul's provides an opportunity to hear sacred music and music appropriate to the University Chapel outside of the context of a worship service in a setting for which much of the music was originally composed. Passport to Museums Through the Passport to Museums program, current Columbia students can gain free admission to more than 30 museums. Passport to Performance Find tickets to a wide variety of performances throughout New York City. Postcrypt Coffeehouse Postcrypt Coffeehouse, established in 1964, features professional, amateur and student performers every Friday and Saturday night throughout the academic year from 8:30 to 11:30 p.m. Admission is always free and open to all. School of the Arts Public Programs With every season of Public Programs, Columbia University School of the Arts offers a lively forum for the exchange of ideas among practitioners, students, scholars and the public. Student Arts Groups Listing of student arts groups. Wallach Art Gallery The Miriam and Ira D. Wallach Art Gallery presents exhibitions and related programming that reflect the diversity of interests and approaches to the arts at Columbia and embody the university's high standards for research and instruction. Campus News Bwog Bwog is an independent, student-run campus news site. Columbia College Events Find out what's happening at Columbia College. Columbia College News & Updates News and updates from the Columbia College Office of Communications. Columbia Daily Spectator News, sports and entertainment coverage for the Morningside Heights community in New York City. Official daily newspaper of Columbia University. Columbia Lion The Lion delivers Columbia news daily and offers news, A&E, opinions, humor, sports coverage, videos and predictions about the future. The Lion is not affiliated with, or endorsed by, Columbia University. Columbia to the Core Profiles of Columbia College students, alumni, faculty and programs. Spectrum The blog of the Columbia Daily Spectator, offering up-to-the-minute updates on all things Columbia and beyond. The Blue and White The Blue and White is the undergraduate magazine of Columbia University. It is published monthly. The Eye The Columbia Spectator's weekly arts and culture magazine. University News News from the Columbia University Office of Communications and Public Affairs. WikiCU WikiCU is a wiki with articles related to Columbia University and its neighborhood. It is effectively an insider's guide to Columbia University. WKCR 89.9FM WKCR-FM, Columbia University’s non-commercial student-run radio station, is dedicated to presenting a spectrum of alternative programming—traditional and art music, spoken arts, and original journalism. Campus Services Campus Maps Maps of the Columbia campus. Campus Transportation Information on Columbia shuttles: Intercampus, Evening, George Washington/Ft. Lee, Lamont, ADA-accessible. Columbia University Bookstore Textbooks and Columbia gear are sold at the Columbia University Bookstore, located in the basement of Alfred Lerner Hall. Dining Services Find information about Ferris Booth, JJ's Place and John Jay Dining Hall menus, locations and hours, and information about Dining Plans, Dollars and Flex. Directory Search the Columbia University Directory. Evening Shuttle Morningside Heights evening shuttle (for Columbia community only) route and schedule. Go Green Environmental Stewardship initiates, coordinates and implements practical programs to reduce the University’s environmental footprint and promotes a culture that values the environment and acts to protect it. ID Center Information on obtaining an ID card, understanding card readers and building access, and lost/stolen cards. Mail Services Columbia University Mail Services provides the campus mail service. The Package Center in Lerner Hall provides discounted shipping services. New Student Information Information for first-year, transfer and visiting students from Campus Operations, including key information and important steps and requirements to ensure a smooth transition to Columbia. Report an Incident Information on reporting student conduct concerns, academic integrity violations, sexual or gender-based misconduct, incidents of bias or hate, incidents within residence halls and off-campus incidents. Student and Administrative Services Student and Administrative Services include Dining, Environmental Stewardship, Event Management, Student Financial Services, Health, Housing, the ID Center, Information Technology, Lerner Hall, Mail, Print, the Office of the Registrar, and Transportation. Student Center Alfred Lerner Hall is the Columbia University Student Center. Communities Community Principles A statement developed by the Community Principles working group composed of undergraduate students and staff from CC, Barnard, SEAS and GS. Diversity Education & Training Diversity education and training programs designed to encourage dialogue and interaction among students about issues related to diversity - Under1Roof, CU Safe Zone and ROOTed. Fraternity & Sorority Life Fraternities and sororities have been a part of Columbia University for over 175 years, providing opportunities for students to form bonds and friendships, to interact with the greater community and to participate in service and civic engagement. International Students and Scholars Office The International Students and Scholars Office (ISSO) is the international community’s resource for immigration-related needs, including visas, employment, travel, and tax-filing obligations. Office of University Life The Office of University Life convenes students, faculty and administrators to work together on issues that need our attention -- from inclusion and belonging to mental health and wellness to sexual respect and gender-based misconduct, and much more. Social Justice and Inter/Intra Cultural Programming Information on cultural heritage months, lectures, film screenings, art exhibits, and co-sponsorship of campus programs including concerts, conferences and workshops and funding opportunities for student organizations that promote intercultural exchange. Transfer Students Information and resources for transfer students. Visiting and Exchange Students Programs and services for visiting and exchange students. Connect to the College Admissions Recruitment Committees Volunteer for the Admissions Office to play a vital role in recruiting future Columbia College students. Columbia College Senior Fund The Senior Fund, a College Fund campaign run by Columbia’s seniors, marks the beginning of a lifetime involvement with the College. It is the first step for many in the transition from student to dedicated alumnus/a. Columbia College Today Columbia College Today is the alumni magazine of Columbia College. Columbia Entrepreneurship Columbia Entrepreneurship helps Columbia’s students, faculty and alumni launch Columbia-born ventures. Connect with Alumni Learn more about alumni who graduated from a range of CU schools, majors and programs through the Center for Career Education. Facebook Columbia College Facebook page. Instagram Columbia College Instagram account. Student-Alumni Ambassadors Columbia College Student Ambassadors (CCSA) is a group of student leaders under the aegis of Columbia College Alumni Affairs and Development who serve as the ambassadors of the college to alumni and the campus community. Twitter Columbia College Twitter account. Core Curriculum About the Core Curriculum Learn more about the Core Curriculum. Contact the Center for the Core Curriculum Contact the Center for the Core Curriculum. Core Classes Learn more about Columbia College's Core classes: Contemporary Civilization, Literature Humanities, University Writing, Art Humanities, Music Humanities and Frontiers of Science. Core Registration & Core Policy Information on Core Curriculum registration and policies. Core Requirements Learn more about Columbia College's Core requirements. Core Scholars Program The Core Scholars Program invites anyone who has taken a Core course to reflect on the materials of the Core Curriculum by creating a Core Reflection. Students who create exceptionally creative and well executed reflections are honored as Core Scholars. History of the Core A timeline reflecting the history of Columbia College's Core Curriculum. Dining Services Accepted Flex Locations Discover accepted flex locations in the Morningside Heights neighborhood. Allergies Register a special allergy with Columbia Dining's registered dietitian. Dine@CU Download the Dine@CU mobile app, the official guide to Columbia Dining. Dining Services Find information about Ferris Booth, JJ's Place and John Jay Dining Hall menus, locations and hours, and information about Dining Plans, Dollars and Flex. Dining Services Feedback Give Dining Services feedback. Nutrition Services Information about meeting with a Registered Dietitian. Explore NYC Arts Initiative/TIC Center Engage in the cultural riches of Columbia University and New York City with tickets to music, theater, museums and more. Bus Map The MTA's Manhattan bus map. Inside New York Guide to dining, nightlife and events. MTA Information, updates and subway and bus maps from the Metropolitan Transit Authority (MTA). New York Press Neighborhood news and information for Upper Manhattan. NY Magazine Daily coverage of New York's restaurants, nightlife, shopping, fashion, politics and culture. NYC — The Official Guide NYC travel guide published by New York City’s official marketing, tourism and partnership organization. Passport to Museums Through the Passport to Museums program, current Columbia students can gain free admission to more than 30 museums. Passport to Performance Find tickets to a wide variety of performances throughout New York City. Subway Map The MTA's New York City subway map. Subway Map — The Weekender The Weekender is the MTA's New York City weekend subway map documenting up-to-date subway service changes. TimeOut New York Up-to-date listings of cultural events throughout New York City. TKTS Discount tickets to Broadway and Off-Broadway shows from the Theater Development Fund TKTS discount booths. Urban New York The Urban New York program provides an opportunity to receive free tickets to exciting trips around the city as well as providing an opportunity for students and faculty to interact in a social setting. Village Voice Local New York news, events, music, movies, restaurants and reviews. West Harlem Community Board Manhattan Community Board 9 encompasses the West Harlem neighborhoods of Morningside Heights, Manhattanville and Hamilton Heights. Financial Services Billing and Payments Pay your E-bill and manage your financial account through Student Financial Services. Fees and Expenses Columbia College fees and expenses. Financial Aid and Educational Financing for Enrolled Students Information for enrolled students. Forms and Publications Financial Aid forms and publications in regard to your student account, your E-Bill, and fees and payments. Health Insurance Waiver Request a health insurance waiver. IDOC: Institutional Documentation Service Columbia College and Columbia Engineering utilize the CollegeBoard IDOC Institutional Documentation Service to securely collect and scan families’ federal tax returns and other financial aid documents. Loans and Paperwork Recent Columbia financial aid enhancements have eliminated student loans from the initial financial aid award, but students may still choose to finance their education through a combination of student loans, parent loans and/or monthly payment plans. Net Price Calculator A tool to help you determine the financial aid for which you may qualify. Planning for Columbia E-Bills The Office of Financial Aid & Educational Financing helps you plan for your college bill and provides your family information regarding available financing options. Student Financial Services sends E-Bills to students and to authorized payers. Scholarships Search for an outside scholarship. Senior Thesis Funding Columbia College is able to provide a small research fund to students conducting approved research for their senior theses. Sponsored Students Information for sponsored students, whose educations at Columbia are funded directly by a third party (an employer, educational institution, government agency, foundation, grant or other institutional source) called a sponsor. Student Financial Services Tuition information, E-billing and payments, student accounts and the Cashiers Office. Get Involved Athletics Information about Columbia teams, athletes and upcoming games. Roar, Lion, Roar! Awards and Recognitions At the end of each academic year, students are recognized with awards and honors for leadership, cocurricular accomplishments and noteworthy contributions to the Columbia community. Central Projects and Programs Central Projects and Programs supports the academic missions of Columbia College and Columbia Engineering to develop programs and services that foster community, ensure a respectful and inclusive environment, and enrich the overall student experience. Civic Engagement Opportunities Discover opportunities to enhance leadership skills and engage in your communities. Columbia Communities in Action (CCIA) Internships Columbia Communities in Action (CCIA) provides students with a paid 10-week civic engagement-focused internship and training that will help students maximize their experience and learn how to promote it professionally. Columbia-Supported Student Travel Resources for Columbia-supported student travel, including definition, forms, and expense and payment information. Community Impact Community Impact is an independent nonprofit organization dedicated to serving disadvantaged people in the Morningside Heights, Harlem and Washington Heights communities. Create a New Student Group Information on applying for new group recognition. CUPAL — Columbia University Performing Arts League Facilitates discussion between groups regarding the University arts community as a whole, encourages the sharing of resources between groups, and serves as an advisory board to any newly-formed performing arts groups or special projects. Events Calendar - University Find events happening across the University. Events Calendar — Student Organizations Find events run by student organizations. LionLink Student group membership, events and management. New Student Orientation Program Columbia's New Student Orientation Program (NSOP) is your first opportunity to experience life at Columbia as a student. Office of University Life The Office of University Life convenes students, faculty and administrators to work together on issues that need our attention -- from inclusion and belonging to mental health and wellness to sexual respect and gender-based misconduct, and much more. Student Engagement Provides opportunities for social interaction and student participation in campus and community life. Student Governance Information about Columbia's student councils and governing boards. Student Group Basics Basic information to help your group succeed on the Columbia campus, and to assist you throughout the process of planning and carrying out a successful program or event. Student Group Directory Find a student organization which aligns with your interests and passions. Student-Alumni Programs Student-Alumni Programs bridges the gap between life as a student and life after graduation, while helping students build deep connections that will make Columbia feel like home. Undergraduate Student Life Undergraduate Student Life works to foster a welcoming and inclusive community by supporting undergraduate students in the development of skills and awareness of self and others required to responsibly engage, serve and lead. Go Global Alternative Break Program The Alternative Break Program (ABP) provides funding and support for teams of Columbia/Barnard students who tackle community challenges around the world, across the country, or in our own backyards. Columbia Experience Overseas Discover high quality internship experiences in a diverse array of industries in Amman, Beijing, Hong Kong, London, Shanghai and Singapore through alumni and employer partnerships. Columbia Presidential Global Fellowship The PGF offers first-year undergraduates who are seeking to develop a strong global foundation and a deeper understanding of the world around them with a unique opportunity to enrich their Columbia education beginning in the summer after their first year. Howard-Spelman Domestic Exchange Information on Columbia's domestic exchange program with prominent historically black college and universities, Howard University (Washington, D.C.), and Spelman College (Atlanta, Georgia). Peer Advising — Office of Global Programs A group of Columbia students who have returned from a semester or year abroad and are interested in sharing their experience of study abroad with fellow students. Study Abroad Advising Get help and advice selecting and applying to Columbia's Global Programs. Undergraduate International Travel Policy The Undergraduate International Travel Policy supports the health, safety and security of our undergraduates while they pursue transformative, meaningful and engaging educational experiences beyond the classroom. Health A-Z Services A list of Columbia Health services provided by Medical Services, Counseling and Psychological Services, Disability Services, Sexual Violence Response and Alice! Health Promotion. Columbia EMS A student-operated, New York State-certified, Basic Life Support volunteer ambulance corps. Emergency? Dial x99 or call (212) 854-5555. Emergencies Contact information for emergencies, including medical, mental health and sexual assault emergencies, or for those in need of an ambulance. Events Workshops, panel discussions, skill-building opportunities and other events sponsored by Columbia Health. FAQ Frequently asked questions regarding health at Columbia. Forms Columbia Health forms from Alice! Health Promotion, Counseling and Psychological Services, Disability Services, Medical Services, Sexual Violence Response, Immunization Compliance, Columbia Health Enrollment and Special Healthcare Fund. Gay Health Advocacy Project (GHAP) GHAP offers HIV antibody testing and information about transmission, treatment and prevention of sexually transmitted infections, as well as peer counseling around issues of sexuality. Services are offered to people of all genders and orientations. Medical Services Medical Services provides routine and urgent medical care, travel medicine, immunizations, as well as sexual health services, reproductive and gynecological services, LGBTQ health care, and confidential HIV testing. News Columbia Health news updates regarding health issues involving the Morningside campus community. Nutrition Services Information about meeting with a Registered Dietitian. Rape Crisis/Anti-Violence Support Center The Rape Crisis/Anti-Violence Support Center (RC/AVSC) is a part of Columbia Health Sexual Violence Response (SVR). The RC/AVSC provides peer advocacy and education to the entire University community. Schedule an Appointment Information on how to make an appointment for a medical or mental health concern, including appointments at Counseling and Psychological Services, Medical Services, Disability Services and Sexual Violence Response. Sexual Respect at Columbia File a report, find someone to talk to and get more information about Columbia University's commitment to providing a learning, working and living environment free from discrimination, harassment and gender-based misconduct. Sexual Violence Response Sexual Violence Response provides comprehensive and integrated education about sexual and relationship violence. Health — Student Groups Active Minds Columbia's chapter of Active Minds works to increase students’ awareness of mental health issues, provide information and resources regarding mental health and mental illness and encourage students to seek help as soon as it is needed. Student Wellness Project The Student Wellness Project (SWP) is a student-led movement that aims to help students feel like their best selves by promoting a campus culture of well-being. Students of AMF Students of AMF at Columbia University is one of about 70 chapters of National Students of AMF across the nation. The mission of National Students of AMF is to support college students grieving the illness or death of a loved one. Health — Wellness Active Minds Columbia's chapter of Active Minds works to increase students’ awareness of mental health issues, provide information and resources regarding mental health and mental illness and encourage students to seek help as soon as it is needed. Flu Clinics Information about flu shots at Columbia and additional flu information. Group Therapy Counseling and Psychological Services offers support groups designed to enhance life skills to students. These groups or special programs are often developed in collaboration with student groups, deans, residence advisers, and others. No More Campaign Brought to you by Sexual Violence Response, the No More Campaign is dedicated to cultivating healthy relationships among the campus community and elevating awareness of domestic and relationship violence. Nutrition Services Information about meeting with a Registered Dietitian. Office of University Life The Office of University Life convenes students, faculty and administrators to work together on issues that need our attention -- from inclusion and belonging to mental health and wellness to sexual respect and gender-based misconduct, and much more. Sexual Violence Response Volunteer Programs Peer Advocates provide survivors and their supporters with confidential emotional support, accompaniment and referrals to resources. Peer Educators with Sexual Violence Response are students committed to preventing sexual and intimate partner violence. Student Wellness Project The Student Wellness Project (SWP) is a student-led movement that aims to help students feel like their best selves by promoting a campus culture of well-being. Students of AMF Students of AMF at Columbia University is one of about 70 chapters of National Students of AMF across the nation. The mission of National Students of AMF is to support college students grieving the illness or death of a loved one. Housing & Residential Life Columbia Housing Request maintenance, housing options, room selection, dates and deadlines, LaundryView, guide to living, housing portal. Contact Columbia Housing Contact Columbia Housing for information pertaining to undergraduate residences. Contact the RA on Duty Contact information for the Residential Advisers on duty. LaundryView Monitor the status of campus washers and dryers. National Residence Hall Honorary (NRHH) The National Residence Hall Honorary (NRHH) is an honor society for the recognition of those individuals who have significantly contributed to the advancement of residential life, and the provision of opportunities for personal growth and development. Request Housing Maintenance Facilities helps with routine maintenance services in the academic and administrative buildings and undergraduate residence halls of the Morningside campus. Residence Hall Leadership Organization (RHLO) RHLO members manage a budget, plan events and foster a sense of community in their residence halls. Special Interest Communities Special Interest Communities (SICs) offer a unique residential experience by allowing sophomores, juniors and seniors to live and explore common interests together. Important Contacts Contact a Library Subject Specialist Liason Contact the librarians who are responsible for maintaining effective contact between the Libraries and specific academic subjects and groups. Contact Central Projects and Programs Contact Columbia College Central Projects and Programs. Contact Columbia Housing Contact Columbia Housing for information pertaining to undergraduate residences. Contact IT Support Contact CUIT for help with campus computing services. Contact Public Safety Contact the Department of Public Safety for on-campus security, fire or medical emergencies — 212-854-5555. For off-campus emergencies dial 911. Contact the Berick Center for Student Advising Contact the James H. and Christine Turk Berick Center for Student Advising (CSA), which provides an integrated advising experience for all students in Columbia College. Contact the Center for the Core Curriculum Contact the Center for the Core Curriculum. Contact the RA on Duty Contact information for the Residential Advisers on duty. Contact the Registrar Contact the University Registrar for information on transcripts, registration, or for a directory of classes. Contact Undergraduate Student Life Contact Undergraduate Student Life for questions relating to student groups. Directory Search the Columbia University Directory. Jobs & Careers Career Advising Find a job or internship, get help with resumes and cover letters, get help making career decisions, develop and practice interview skills, and grow a professional network. Career Resources The Center for Career Education helps you to understand yourself, to explore career options and to gain experience so that you can make informed choices that will lead you to a satisfying career. CCE Sponsored Programs The Center for Career Education (CCE) offers several unique opportunities to explore career interests all over the world and develop key professional skills. Columbia Communities in Action (CCIA) Internships Columbia Communities in Action (CCIA) provides students with a paid 10-week civic engagement-focused internship and training that will help students maximize their experience and learn how to promote it professionally. Columbia Entrepreneurship Columbia Entrepreneurship helps Columbia’s students, faculty and alumni launch Columbia-born ventures. Connect with Alumni Learn more about alumni who graduated from a range of CU schools, majors and programs through the Center for Career Education. Jobs and Internships Find a job or internship. LionSHARE LionSHARE is the Center for Career Education's on-campus recruiting platform and job posting site. Online Services Computer Labs A number of different types of computing facilities are available to students, faculty and staff of the University. These facilities range from simple informational kiosks to high-end workstations to walk-in consulting centers. Contact IT Support Contact CUIT for help with campus computing services. CourseWorks Course information, rosters, and shared files. CUIT Help with network and wireless services, cable TV, webcasting and phones. Directory Search the Columbia University Directory. Email Alias Select an email alias. A number of choices are offered based upon a person's name as it appears in the University Student system. IT Security Resources Tips and information for computer and network security. LionMail Your Columbia email account. Manage My UNI Your UNI, consisting of your initials plus an arbitrary number, is the key to accessing computer services and electronic resources at Columbia. PawPrint Print Center The PawPrint Print Center allows you to view your currently queued print jobs, your job history and current balances for your Weekly and Semesterly Quotas and Printing Dollars. PawPrint Printing System PawPrint Printing System provides a simple and flexible way to print in a multitude of locations, with both black-and-white and color options. With PawPrint, you can send a document to print from any computer and print it from any PawPrint print station. PawPrint Quick Start Guide Learn how to print with PawPrint, review your printing account and job history and understand print funds. Software and Downloads Software and downloads for computers being used in the Columbia community. Student Services Online (SSOL) Your course registration and student account. Policies & Procedures Bias Response Undergraduate Student Life has worked with students and key administrative offices to develop a protocol responding to acts of hate and bias in our community in order to better create a safe and secure environment for all of our students. Dean's Discipline Dean’s Discipline is the process utilized by Columbia College, Columbia Engineering, and the School of General Studies to investigate and respond to allegations of behavioral or academic misconduct. Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action As an institution, Columbia University is committed to the principles of equity and excellence. It actively pursues both, adhering to the belief that equity is the partner of excellence. Honor Code Pledge taken by all Columbia College students. Report an Incident Information on reporting student conduct concerns, academic integrity violations, sexual or gender-based misconduct, incidents of bias or hate, incidents within residence halls and off-campus incidents. Sexual Respect at Columbia File a report, find someone to talk to and get more information about Columbia University's commitment to providing a learning, working and living environment free from discrimination, harassment and gender-based misconduct. Undergraduate International Travel Policy The Undergraduate International Travel Policy supports the health, safety and security of our undergraduates while they pursue transformative, meaningful and engaging educational experiences beyond the classroom. University Policies Essential Policies for the Columbia University community. Safety Campus Alerts Sign-up Sign up for text message notification about campus alerts from Public Safety. Columbia EMS A student-operated, New York State-certified, Basic Life Support volunteer ambulance corps. Emergency? Dial x99 or call (212) 854-5555. Emergencies Contact information for emergencies, including medical, mental health and sexual assault emergencies, or for those in need of an ambulance. Emergency Preparedness A central resource for the University's overall emergency response strategy. Public Safety Alerts Security alerts from the Department of Public Safety. Report an Incident Information on reporting student conduct concerns, academic integrity violations, sexual or gender-based misconduct, incidents of bias or hate, incidents within residence halls and off-campus incidents. Sexual Respect at Columbia File a report, find someone to talk to and get more information about Columbia University's commitment to providing a learning, working and living environment free from discrimination, harassment and gender-based misconduct. Student Government Activities Board at Columbia The largest undergraduate governing board at Columbia University, representing over 150 cultural, academic, pre-professional, publication, science, engineering, dance, vocal, theater and special interest groups on campus. Columbia College Student Council (CCSC) The elected undergraduate student government body representing the interests of all students enrolled in Columbia College. InterFraternity Council (IFC) Governing council of Alpha Delta Phi Society, Alpha Epsilon Pi, Beta Theta Pi, Delta Sigma Phi, Kappa Delta Rho, Pi Kappa Alpha, Psi Upsilon, Sigma Alpha Epsilon, Sigma Chi, Sigma Nu, and Sigma Phi Epsilon. InterGreek Council (IGC) The InterGreek Council (IGC) is the self-governing student organization that provides guidelines and support to its member organizations within the Interfraternity Council, Panhellenic Council, and Multicultural Greek Council. Interschool Governing Board (IGB) Represents and serves the needs of Columbia University student organizations whose mission is interschool in nature and whose membership includes students from various schools in the university. Multicultural Greek Council (MGC) The Multicultural Greek Council (MGC) is the student organization that oversees the many multicultural fraternities and sororities on campus. Panhellenic Council Oversees the five Panhellenic Conference sororities on campus: Alpha Chi Omega, Alpha Omicron Pi, Delta Gamma, Kappa Alpha Theta, and Sigma Delta Tau. Student Governance Information about Columbia's student councils and governing boards. Student Governing Board (SGB) Since its founding on January 10, 1969, following the 1968 protests, SGB has traditionally served as the guardian of free speech and students' rights on campus, and remains the only governing board comprising students from all four undergraduate schools. University Senate A University-wide legislature, representing faculty, students, and other constituencies. It makes policy on a range of issues that affect the entire University or more than one school. Student Group Resources Activities Board at Columbia The largest undergraduate governing board at Columbia University, representing over 150 cultural, academic, pre-professional, publication, science, engineering, dance, vocal, theater and special interest groups on campus. Contact Undergraduate Student Life Contact Undergraduate Student Life for questions relating to student groups. Contact University Event Management Contact University Event Management for help coordinating the reservation of event space and technical services, as well as for for help with the coordination and management of student event policies. Create a New Student Group Information on applying for new group recognition. CUPAL — Columbia University Performing Arts League Facilitates discussion between groups regarding the University arts community as a whole, encourages the sharing of resources between groups, and serves as an advisory board to any newly-formed performing arts groups or special projects. Events Calendar — Student Organizations Find events run by student organizations. Find Space for your Student Group University Event Management (UEM) can assist with booking space inside Lerner Hall, in residence hall lounges and classrooms as well as outdoor space. Find Space: Resources Learn about available space, and policies and procedures for booking space for your student group. Gatsby Student Arts Support Fund Learn how to apply for a Gatsby Student Arts Support Fund grant to gain funding for student arts projects (as individuals or Columbia-recognized student groups). Interschool Governing Board (IGB) Represents and serves the needs of Columbia University student organizations whose mission is interschool in nature and whose membership includes students from various schools in the university. LionLink Student group membership, events and management. Partner with the Center for Career Education Partner with the Center for Career Education to market career-related events, co-host career events or to get help preparing group members for conferences, career fairs and/or applications to internships/jobs. Student Governing Board (SGB) Since its founding on January 10, 1969, following the 1968 protests, SGB has traditionally served as the guardian of free speech and students' rights on campus, and remains the only governing board comprising students from all four undergraduate schools. Student Group Basics Basic information to help your group succeed on the Columbia campus, and to assist you throughout the process of planning and carrying out a successful program or event. Student Group Directory Find a student organization which aligns with your interests and passions. Undergraduate International Travel Policy The Undergraduate International Travel Policy supports the health, safety and security of our undergraduates while they pursue transformative, meaningful and engaging educational experiences beyond the classroom. Columbia College Columbia University in the City of New York Facebook Twitter Instagram Contact Us 208 Hamilton Hall Mail Code 2805 1130 Amsterdam Avenue New York, NY 10027 ColumbiaCollege@columbia.edu 212-854-2441 College Offices Alumni Affairs and Development Berick Center for Student Advising Center for Career Education Center for the Core Curriculum Center for Undergraduate Global Engagement Double Discovery Center Eric H. Holder Jr. Initiative for Civil and Political Rights Financial Aid & Educational Financing Undergraduate Admissions Undergraduate Research and Fellowships Undergraduate Student Life Core to Commencement © 2022 Columbia University | Privacy Policy | Notice of Non-Discrimination | Terms of Use | Accessibility | University Home Page