Skip to main content Menu Audiences Clemson Home CECAS Home Department Home Resources A-Z Index Calendar Campus Maps Phonebook Apply Now Make a Gift About Us Outreach Prospective Students Current Students Prospective Students College is an incredible time, and our programs for women and underrepresented students in the College of Engineering, Computing and Applied Sciences (CECAS) make it even better, nurturing academic and professional success while fostering life-building personal connections. Our programs are designed to enrich the student experience at Clemson by helping students develop the skills they will require to be excellent engineering and science majors. A 30-year history of diversity programs: Programs for Educational Enrichment & Retention (PEER), established in 1987 to increase minority retention in the College. Women In Science & Engineering (WISE), established in 1995 to increase female retention in the College. Effective study skills, time-management techniques, and insights from current, successful CECAS students are available, but these offerings go far beyond academics. Along the way, they provide opportunities to develop lifelong friends. So come in. Sit awhile. Laugh, study, socialize, share. Find your fit – with STEM opportunities at Clemson. Admissions and Majors Want to know admission policies, how to become a co-op, whether a laptop is needed? Check out our FAQ page about admission to Clemson University. PEER/WISE supports those in science and engineering majors. Though most of our participants are in CECAS, there are some that join us from the College of Science. Please view a list of majors that encompass both colleges. Research Opportunities Research is a fundamental part of Clemson University. As an R-1 Research university, our campus sees a very high number of research opportunities across a broad array of topics. Creative inquiry and Summer Undergraduate Research are two of the largest opportunities for students. Creative Inquiry develops problem-solving, teamwork, and communication skills - skills that play an essential role in future employment. Visit Clemson University Want to know what it will be like at Clemson before you get to college? Check out our SEE Clemson, PEER/WISE Experience, and Sneak Preview events. The events last from one day to one week and let you explore campus, meet future classmates, and learn about academic life. Prospective Students Admissions Majors Undergraduate Research Sneak Preview S.E.E. Clemson PEER/WISE Experience Parent Tips for College Copyright © Clemson University PEER & WISE | 158 Freeman Hall, Clemson, S.C. 29634 (864) 656-0976 | Email Us