Skip to main content College of Liberal and Professional Studies | School of Arts & Sciences | University of Pennsylvania Apply now Request more info Search form Search Main Menu Home Academics Master of Public Administration Executive Master of Public Administration Dual Degree Programs Non-Degree Program Current Courses Capstone Projects Instructors Academic Calendar Tuition & Aid Career Services Students Student Groups Alumni Events Fels in the Community Fels and the 2020 Election: Conducting Elections Amidst a Pandemic Fels welcomed Marty Baron to the Public Policy in Practice speaker series Fels welcomes COVID vaccine pioneers Dr. Katalin Karikó and Dr. Drew Weissman Fels welcomes David Gergen for the Public Policy in Practice speaker series Fels welcomes Karen Richardson for the Public Policy in Practice speaker series Fels welcomes Paul Monteiro for the Public Policy in Practice speaker series Fels welcomes Richard Cordray for the Public Policy in Practice speaker series Fels welcomes Sarah Hurwitz for the Public Policy in Practice speaker series Fels welcomes Senator Elizabeth Warren for the Public Policy in Practice speaker series Fels welcomes Susan Urahn for the Public Policy in Practice speaker series Govern for America joins Fels as an admissions partner organization Matthew Stitt (MPA ’12) Appointed as Fels Distinguished Fellow with Focus on Racial Equity and Social Justice Fels Lab Contact Fels Institute of Government The most personal, practical public administration education Since 1937, the Fels Institute of Government at the University of Pennsylvania has pioneered the training and practice of public administration. Today, we build on our legacy to prepare the next generation of public leaders. Whether you are already established in your career or seeking to enter the public or nonprofit sectors, each Fels program is designed to help you achieve your academic and career goals. Taught by high-level practitioners and distinguished Penn scholars, our curriculum brings the Fels approach of context, analysis, and practice to life with real-world applications. Join the vibrant community of Fels students and alumni who are creating positive impact throughout the public and nonprofit sectors locally and nationally. Full-time Master of Public Administration Begin or advance your public career in one academic year Learn about the MPA Executive Master of Public Administration Enhance your existing career with this flexible, low-residency program Learn about the Executive MPA Non-Degree Program Enroll in Fels elective courses without committing to a full degree program Learn about the Non-Degree Program Fels Institute of Government Fels in the Community The keynote speaker for the Fels Class of 2022 graduation will be the honorable Patrick J. Murphy. Read more > The Fels Institute of Government 3814 Walnut St. Philadelphia, PA 19104 (215) 898-7326 felsinstitute@sas.upenn.edu © 2022 College of Liberal and Professional Studies at The University of Pennsylvania