Skip to main site navigation Skip to main content Open the search panel Open the main menu Search Go Close the search panel Information for… Incoming J.D. Current Students Faculty Staff Media Employers News Events Alumni Giving About Library Login Open the Search panel Admissions Admissions Why Columbia J.D. Admissions Graduate Admissions Academics Academics J.D. Program and Curriculum LL.M. Program and Curriculum Executive LL.M. Program and Curriculum J.S.D. Program and Curriculum Dual and Joint Degrees International Programs Public Interest and Public Service Experiential Learning Courses Registration Services Academic Calendar Executive Education Areas of Study Areas of Study Constitutional Law, Regulation, and Public Policy Corporate, Business, and Transactional Law Criminal Justice Data Analytics Environment and Energy Family, Gender, and Sexuality Intellectual Property and Technology International and Comparative Law Law of the Workplace Leadership Legal History Litigation and Dispute Resolution National Security and Privacy Social Justice and Human Rights Faculty & Scholarship Faculty & Scholarship Faculty Directory Research Centers and Programs Scholarship Archive Workshops, Lectures, and Colloquia Careers Careers Private Sector Careers Public Interest and Public Service Careers Academic Careers Judicial Clerkships Employment Statistics Employment Policies Community Life Community Life Visit Campus Dean’s Welcome Your Campus, Your City Student Life Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Strategic Initiatives Current Students Find everything you need to navigate your path at Columbia Law School, including registration and financial aid information, roadmaps for each year, course listings, and more. Office of Student Services Much of our portfolio is dedicated to the J.D. experience although we do coordinate events for both the J.D. and LL.M. populations (student organization support, university-mandated compliance matters, and graduation). In general please reach out if you have questions about orientation, academic advising, academic support, student organization support, journals, diversity and inclusion programming, health and wellness programs, housing, or graduation, or if you are simply experiencing a disruption that has an impact on your ability to study. Related Links LawNet Browse Courses Information Technology Search for Student Resources Search Go Student Resources Student COVID-19 FAQs Wellness and Support Registration Services Financial Aid 1L Roadmap 2L Roadmap 3L Roadmap LL.M. Roadmap Academic Calendar CourseWorks LawNet CLS Connect (Campus Groups) LionMail Public Directory Financial Wellness Student Organizations and Journals Student Journals Writing Center Submit Student Events Information Technology 1L Roadmap A month-by-month look at your first year of Law School, including orientation, preparing for your first midterms, exploring career paths, and finding summer employment opportunities. Learn More 2L Roadmap Choose courses that build on your interests or challenge you to explore new areas of study, work on a journal, consider studying abroad, go on a spring caravan, and find other pro bono work opportunities. Learn More 3L Roadmap Prepare for the bar exam, finish your pro bono requirement, serve as a peer mentor, plan for the next stage in your career, and enjoy graduation! Learn More LL.M. Roadmap (Full-Year) In one year, delve into your current specialization, transition to a new practice area, or explore additional areas of study that interest you in and out of the classroom. Learn More Related News and Stories Read All Stories More in The Press Students Video Annah Akhoun-Murat ’22 LL.M.: Build a Sustainable Future Students Video Emily L. Drake ’22: Be Prepared and Know When to Ask for Help Students Video Jordan A.J. Jarrett ’22 LL.M.: Use the Law to Make Meaningful Impact Student Events View All Events May 31 2022 Deadline - June 6th - Moot Court Student Editor/LPW Teaching Fellow Tue, 6:00 p.m. - 8:00 p.m. William and June Warren Hall, 1125 Amsterdam Ave., New York, NY 10027 Jun 1 2022 Revolution 12/13 | Abolition Feminism with Sarah Haley Wed, 6:00 p.m. - 8:00 p.m. The People's Forum, 320 W. 37th St., New York, NY 10018 Jun 3 2022 OJC Class of 2023 Deadline: Submit Paper Applications to OJC Fri, All Day Online View All Events Admissions Why Columbia Visit 435 West 116th Street New York, NY 10027 212-854-2640 Contact Us Social Media (Administrative Title) Twitter LinkedIn Facebook Instagram Admissions Academics Areas of Study Faculty & Scholarship Careers Community Life Information for… Incoming J.D. Current Students Faculty Staff Media Employers Login News Events Alumni Giving About Library Consumer Information (ABA Required Disclosures) Donate © Copyright 2022 The Trustees of Columbia University in the City of New York.