Skip to main content Skip to main navigation Baylor Magazine - Spring 2022 Menu Features Guiding BEARs Being Baylor Online 18 Online Professional Programs Impacting Our World Thasunda Brown Duckett, M.B.A. '01 Alex Le Roux, B.S. '15 Rebekah Naylor, B.A. '64, M.D Susan Peters, B.A. '86 Giancarlo Guerrero, B.M. '91 Christopher Scott, B.A. '04 Fran George, A.B.C. '16 The Meaning of R1 Along Fifth Street An Upward Trajectory Baylor Grads Finding Success After Graduation Georgia Senior Wins Churchill Scholarship The Best Hour of the Week Baylor's New Front Door Honoring Baylor's First Black Grads Baylor Law Moot Court Team Wins First Place Endowment Elevates FastBacc® Program New Sculpture Accents Truett Prayer Garden Honors Residential College Improvements Bears Roar on Twitter Caring for Student Mental Health Students Return to Spring Break Service Baylor Welcomes Black Business Student Association Baylor Pianist Wins National Honors Endeavors The Meaning of R1 Fanfare Elite Programs Our Time Lenard Looks to Lead Women's Soccer to New Heights Give Light $1.1 Billion and Counting Faces of Give Light 2022 Founders Medal Recipients: Paul and Alejandra Foster Alumni News & Notes Alumni-elected Regent Selection Barbara Calhoun Cargill Ryan D. Pratt Mark M. Shelton Class Notes A Global Bear Freddy's fronted by Baylor Bear Forbes Recognizes Baylor Alumna 1940s-60s 1970s 1980s 1990s 2000s 2010s Friends & Family Bear Cub Corner In Memoriam Submit a Class Note or Obit Address Update A Look Back About About Baylor Magazine Subscribe Address Update Previous Issues Baylor>Baylor Magazine - Spring 2022>Along Fifth Street>Caring for Student Mental Health Caring for Student Mental Health Even before COVID-19 imposed record demand on mental health services, concerns around a steady uptick in anxiety, depression and suicidal ideations among college students nationwide spurred campus administrations and legislative bodies across the country to take action. Baylor has steadily grown its commitment to providing unprecedented mental health services, setting a new standard across higher education in access and quality to clinical and preventive care services to the University’s students, faculty and staff. Jim Marsh, Ph.D. Dean of Student Health and Wellness Clinical Baylor Dean of Student Health and Wellness Jim Marsh, Ph.D., is executive director of counseling services. In more than two decades at Baylor, he has seen the trends surrounding mental health services grow in severity and complexity. As COVID-19 swept the globe, Marsh knew demand for those services would be at an all-time high. “Everybody thought it was going to be a tidal wave of student needs, and that does seem to have borne out,” Marsh said. “The number of students seeking help increased, which is a good thing. There’s much more openness, and universities are trying to figure out the best way to care for students.” Within the clinical setting of Baylor’s Counseling Center, the response has been to make services as widely available and accessible as possible, leaning heavily on telehealth access for mental health and medical services while also maintaining a commitment to in-person options. “It’s not going to replace what we do in the Counseling Center, but it really expands and enhances what we do,” Marsh said. While many higher education institutions might offer some form of telehealth services, Baylor has set itself apart by offering those services without cost or session limits to the student. “That’s been the challenge for university counseling centers across the country, being able to see all the students who want to be seen for as long as they want to be seen,” Marsh said. “Evening appointments, weekend appointments, expressed preference for a therapist based on gender, race, language specialization. It [telehealth] opens a whole new array for us in providing care with students.” Medically, these same options exist, allowing free and unlimited virtual urgent care visits, as well as access to nutritional care, assistance with eating disorders and psychiatric evaluation via telemedicine. “The same thing you would go to an urgent care for, any Baylor student now has access to that for free,” Marsh said. “Again, you pick the doctor you want to talk to. We also have access to free nutritional care and psychiatry. It’s a game changer for us.” Meghan Becker, M.Div. ’02 Director of Care Team Services Care Team Services The Counseling Center’s clinical setting provides needed intervention to assist students in crisis and those needing specific on-going care. Meanwhile, the Department of Care Team Services looks to connect students to on- and off-campus resources to provide holistic care through creating trusting relationships. Led by Director of Care Team Services Meghan Becker, M.Div. ‘02, and a team of case managers, the Care Team assists with referrals based on a wide range of potential markers, including suicidal ideation, academic decline, alcohol or drug misuse, depression and more. “Faculty, staff and sometimes students will refer students to our office for dealing with anxiety, depression, financial issues, relationship issues or any sort of mental health crisis that’s affecting their schoolwork,” Becker said. “We get students connected to the right resources. Life outside the classroom greatly impacts life inside the classroom.” The need for Care Team Services grew as these students oftentimes fell through the cracks and would not seek or receive care until their issue grew to a level of crisis. “We don’t directly help manage their anxiety or depression. We get them connected to the right people who do,” Becker said. Since January 2020, Care Team Services has nearly tripled its outreach efforts, addressing increased instances of grief, stress and anxiety among Baylor’s student population. Care Team Services assists students who may believe they do not need help or think they are past the point of being helped. “Ask for help. Say what you need. Even if you don’t know what you need, express it and we’ll get you connected to resources,” Becker said. “A student who thinks they’re too far gone — no way. We have seen the entire spectrum. We love them all and care for them all and really work to get them connected to resources.” Visit shw.web.baylor.edu for more information about Baylor’s Health and Wellness services. Along Fifth Street An Upward Trajectory Baylor Grads Finding Success After Graduation Georgia Senior Wins Churchill Scholarship The Best Hour of the Week Baylor's New Front Door Honoring Baylor's First Black Grads Baylor Law Moot Court Team Wins First Place Endowment Elevates FastBacc® Program New Sculpture Accents Truett Prayer Garden Honors Residential College Improvements Bears Roar on Twitter Caring for Student Mental Health Students Return to Spring Break Service Baylor Welcomes Black Business Student Association Baylor Pianist Wins National Honors General Information Colleges, Schools, Libraries & Research Admissions Administration Gateways For... About Baylor Anonymous Reporting Athletics Ask Baylor Bookstore Calendar Campus Map Directory Give Light Give to Baylor Illuminate Mental Health Resources News Pro Futuris Report It Search Social Media Title IX Baylor Libraries College of Arts & Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work George W. Truett Theological Seminary Graduate School Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Louise Herrington School of Nursing Research at Baylor University Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Engineering & Computer Science School of Music More Academics Undergraduate Admissions goBAYLOR Graduate Admissions Baylor Law School Admissions Social Work Graduate Programs George W. Truett Theological Seminary Admissions Online Graduate Professional Education Virtual Tour Visit Campus Annual Fire Safety and Security Notice Athletics Human Resources Marketing and Communications Office of General Counsel Office of the President Office of the Provost Operations, Finance & Administration Senior Administration Student Life University Advancement Baylor Alumni Faculty & Staff Online Graduate Professional Education Parents Prospective Faculty & Staff Prospective Students Students Copyright © Baylor® University. All rights reserved. Legal Disclosures. Baylor University • Waco, Texas 76798 • 1-800-229-5678 Features Guiding BEARs Being Baylor Online 18 Online Professional Programs Impacting Our World Thasunda Brown Duckett, M.B.A. '01 Alex Le Roux, B.S. '15 Rebekah Naylor, B.A. '64, M.D Susan Peters, B.A. '86 Giancarlo Guerrero, B.M. '91 Christopher Scott, B.A. '04 Fran George, A.B.C. '16 The Meaning of R1 Along Fifth Street An Upward Trajectory Baylor Grads Finding Success After Graduation Georgia Senior Wins Churchill Scholarship The Best Hour of the Week Baylor's New Front Door Honoring Baylor's First Black Grads Baylor Law Moot Court Team Wins First Place Endowment Elevates FastBacc® Program New Sculpture Accents Truett Prayer Garden Honors Residential College Improvements Bears Roar on Twitter Caring for Student Mental Health Students Return to Spring Break Service Baylor Welcomes Black Business Student Association Baylor Pianist Wins National Honors Endeavors The Meaning of R1 Fanfare Elite Programs Our Time Lenard Looks to Lead Women's Soccer to New Heights Give Light $1.1 Billion and Counting Faces of Give Light 2022 Founders Medal Recipients: Paul and Alejandra Foster Alumni News & Notes Alumni-elected Regent Selection Barbara Calhoun Cargill Ryan D. Pratt Mark M. Shelton Class Notes A Global Bear Freddy's fronted by Baylor Bear Forbes Recognizes Baylor Alumna 1940s-60s 1970s 1980s 1990s 2000s 2010s Friends & Family Bear Cub Corner In Memoriam Submit a Class Note or Obit Address Update A Look Back About About Baylor Magazine Subscribe Address Update Previous Issues