Skip to main content Navigation Academics Admissions Research Locations Student Life Alumni & Giving Athletics Apply Now Sociology (BA) Program at a Glance Program Bachelor College(s) College of Sciences Department(s) Sociology In State Tuition Out of State Tuition $212.28 per credit hour $748.89 per credit hour Learn more about program tuition and fees. The Sociology degree, which may be completed online, face-to-face, or as a mix of online and face-to-face courses, has two major goals: 1) to promote undergraduate student excellence and 2) to advance career success for graduates by providing them with tangible, career-oriented skills. A dedicated faculty offers state-of-the-art courses that are relevant to current issues affecting our students' lives and their future careers. Graduates are prepared for careers that require employees who think critically and have analytic and technical skills related to understanding crime, law, and deviance; medical sociology; diversity and inequalities; and/or mass culture and collective behavior. All students complete individual, original research projects. Degree Requirements Students who change degree programs and select this major must adopt the most current catalog. Departmental Residency Requirement: at least 24 semester hours of regularly scheduled 3000-4000 level courses must be taken from the UCF Sociology Department. Students must earn at least a "C" (2.0) or higher in each core course. Students must have at least a "C" (2.0) in each UCF course satisfying major requirements. Students must maintain a minimum cumulative GPA of 2.0 in all courses satisfying major requirements. Experiential Education credit cannot be used for credit in this major. Directed Independent studies, directed independent research, and internships must be approved by the Sociology department prior to enrollment. No more than 12 hours of directed independent study, directed independent research, and internship (course numbers 3905, 4906, 5907, 4912, 5917, 3940, & 4941) credit may be used for the major. All prerequisites of courses taught within the College of Sciences will be enforced. Students should consult annually with a departmental advisor. Courses designated in 1 (General Education Program) and 2 (Common Program Prerequisites) are usually completed in the first 60 hours. Online Sociology, BA/BS Sociology (B.A./B.S.) may be completed fully online, although not all elective options or program prerequisites may be offered online. Newly admitted students choosing to complete this program exclusively via UCF online classes may enroll with a reduction in campus-based fees. View Full Description Undergraduate Application Deadlines Freshmen Transfers International Fall May 1 Spring November 1 Summer March 1 Fall July 1 Spring November 1 Summer March 1 Fall March 1 Spring September 1 Summer January 1 Ready to get started? Apply Today Career Opportunities UCF prepares you for life beyond the classroom. Here, you’ll experience a wide range of opportunity, like learning diverse skills from world-renowned faculty to networking with top employers across Central Florida to gaining first-hand experience in internships nearby. Achieve your degree and more as a Knight. City Planning Aide Comparative Sociology Professor Criminologist Economic Research Assistant Economist Research Assistant Family Sociologist Historian Research Assistant Penologist Political Science Research Assistant Psychologist Research Assistant Race Relations Professor Rural Sociologist Social Organization Professor Sociologist Sociology Research Assistant Urban Sociologist Show More Career Opportunities Degree Search College of Sciences programs Bachelors Sociology (BA) University of Central Florida Colleges Burnett Honors Arts and Humanities Business Community Innovation and Education Engineering and Computer Science Graduate Studies Health Professions and Sciences Medicine Nursing Optics and Photonics Undergraduate Studies Hospitality Management × The Sociology degree, which may be completed online, face-to-face, or as a mix of online and face-to-face courses, has two major goals: 1) to promote undergraduate student excellence and 2) to advance career success for graduates by providing them with tangible, career-oriented skills. A dedicated faculty offers state-of-the-art courses that are relevant to current issues affecting our students' lives and their future careers. Graduates are prepared for careers that require employees who think critically and have analytic and technical skills related to understanding crime, law, and deviance; medical sociology; diversity and inequalities; and/or mass culture and collective behavior. All students complete individual, original research projects. Degree Requirements Students who change degree programs and select this major must adopt the most current catalog. Departmental Residency Requirement: at least 24 semester hours of regularly scheduled 3000-4000 level courses must be taken from the UCF Sociology Department. Students must earn at least a "C" (2.0) or higher in each core course. Students must have at least a "C" (2.0) in each UCF course satisfying major requirements. Students must maintain a minimum cumulative GPA of 2.0 in all courses satisfying major requirements. Experiential Education credit cannot be used for credit in this major. Directed Independent studies, directed independent research, and internships must be approved by the Sociology department prior to enrollment. No more than 12 hours of directed independent study, directed independent research, and internship (course numbers 3905, 4906, 5907, 4912, 5917, 3940, & 4941) credit may be used for the major. All prerequisites of courses taught within the College of Sciences will be enforced. Students should consult annually with a departmental advisor. Courses designated in 1 (General Education Program) and 2 (Common Program Prerequisites) are usually completed in the first 60 hours. Online Sociology, BA/BS Sociology (B.A./B.S.) may be completed fully online, although not all elective options or program prerequisites may be offered online. Newly admitted students choosing to complete this program exclusively via UCF online classes may enroll with a reduction in campus-based fees. Degree Requirements Core Requirements: Advanced Level 11 Total Credits Complete the following: SYA3110 - Social Theory (3) SYA3400C - Applied Social Statistics (4) SYA4300C - Research Methods (4) Restricted Electives 27 Total Credits Complete all of the following Earn at least 27 credits from the following types of courses: All courses with the prefixes SYA, SYD, SYG, SYO, or SYP, including special topics courses, count toward the restricted electives requirement. 24 credit hours must be at the 3000-4000 level, and taken within the Sociology Department at UCF. Additional courses can be taken as approved. Students may enroll for up to a total of 12 credit hours of Internship and/or Independent Study during their UCF undergraduate career. Arrangements for internships are coordinated by the Director of Department Undergraduate Program and require approval prior to beginning the work. 5000 level Graduate Courses may be taken by undergraduates with Consent of the Instructor. Methods Course (B.S. Option) (Optional) 3 - 4 Total Credits Complete all of the following An additional methods course is required if pursuing the B.S. degree. Complete at least 1 of the following: SYA3352 - Spatial Sociology I: Intro to GIS (3) SYA4310C - Qualitative Research Analysis in Sociology (4) SYA4354 - Geographic Information Systems Applications (3) SYA4900 - Applied Sociology (4) SYA4959 - Participatory Geographic Information Systems in Belize (3) SYO3573 - Social Networks: Theory & Applications (3) Capstone Requirement 4 Total Credits Complete the following: SYA4450 - Data Analysis: Capstone (4) Grand Total Credits: 45 - 46 University of Central Florida About UCF Contact Us Faculty Online Degrees Policies Privacy Notice Public Records Regulations Report a Concern UCF News 4000 Central Florida Blvd. Orlando, Florida, 32816 | 407.823.2000 © University of Central Florida