Skip to main content Student Financial Services Columbia University in the City of New York Search Submit SFSCU Undergraduates Graduate Students Veterans & Service Members Parents & Families Work-Study Financial Wellness Menu > Undergraduates Financial Aid Work-Study Bills & Payments Financial Wellness Graduate Students Financial Aid Work-Study Bills & Payments Financial Wellness Veterans & Service Members Getting Started General Information Fed Loan Benefits Financial Wellness Parents & Families Financial Aid Bills & Payments Work-Study Work-Study Financial Wellness Financial Wellness You are here Home Bills & Payments Bills & Payments Getting Refunds Bills & Payments Overview Getting Started Bills & Payments Basics Billing Schedule Logging into SSOL Authorizing a Payer Your Account Statement Paying Your Bill Options for Managing Payments Unpaid Bills Other Ways to Pay Online Check Mail Wire Payment Plan Sponsored Students Tuition Exemption AmeriCorps Awards College Savings Plans Getting Refunds Credit Balances and Refunds Stipend Awards Direct Deposit For Parents For Administrators Getting Refunds On This Page: Receiving a Refund | Processing Schedule | Federal Financial Aid | Admission Deposits | Refunds For Overpayment | Policy Statement New to billing and payments? Start with the basics. Receiving a Refund Refunds are generally processed automatically when a valid credit appears on the Student Account unless otherwise indicated. To check your student account balance: log into Student Services Online (SSOL), click on "Account Detail and E-Billing" "View Student Account Detail" If there is a valid credit on the account that is not based on anticipated credits, the refund will generally be processed automatically unless otherwise indicated. If the credit is based on anticipated credits for financial aid, scholarships, or the payment plan, a refund will not be processed until the funds have actually arrived and been posted to the student account. OPTING INTO AUTOMATIC REFUNDS Please note: you must choose to participate to receive automatic refunds. Default participation status depends on each student's school. To opt into or out of automatic refunds: select "Refunds" from the SSOL menu and follow the instructions. Students of General Studies, Graduate School of Arts and Sciences, Business, College and Undergraduate Engineering are not currently eligible for automatic refunds. These students should refer to the "Automatic Refund Options" page of SSOL. DIRECT DEPOSIT The University's preferred method of refund distribution is through direct deposit. Direct deposit is the fastest and most convenient way to receive a refund. Learn how to enroll. PAPER CHECKS If you have not signed up for direct deposit, paper refund checks will be sent to the your local address. To verify this address, log into SSOL and go to "Addresses." To Top Refund Processing Schedule - Summer 2022 School Processing Date* Architecture - AC 5/24/2022 Arts - AR 5/24/2022 Business - BU Request a refund at the Office of Financial Aid at BU Columbia College - CC Contact your financial aid office Dental - Graduate - DG to come Dental - DN to come Engineering - EN Contact your financial aid office Grad Engineering - EP 6/16/2022 Genetic Counseling - GC 6/2/2022 Graduate School of Arts & Sciences - GF/GG Request a refund at the Office of Financial Aid at GSAS General Studies/Postbac - GS/GN Request a refund at GS Refunds Human Nutrition – GM 5/17/2022 International and Public Affairs (SIPA) - IA 5/24/2022 Journalism - JN 5/24/2022 Law - LW 5/24/2022 Nursing – NP 6/6/2022 Occupational Therapy – OT 5/17/2022 Physical Therapy – PT 5/17/2022 Physicians and Surgeons – MD to come Professional Studies - SP 5/31/2022 Psychoanalytic Center – PC 5/31/2022 Public Health – PH 5/31/2022 Social Work - SW 5/24/2022 *This is the start date chosen by the schools. To Top Note Regarding Federal Financial Aid (Title IV) If a credit balance is due to an excess of federal financial aid such as Pell, SEOG, Stafford and Perkins loans, the opt-out process described above does not apply. In accordance with federal law, all excess Title IV funds will be returned to the student within 14 days. If the student wants any excess Title IV aid to remain on the student account, the student must provide written authorization to the University. Please send an email to the Student Service Center clearly stating that any excess Title IV funding should remain on the student account. This request will be granted for any current or future Title IV excess at the time of the request and will be good for the remainder of the academic year in which the request was made. The authorization to retain Title IV funding on the student account is voluntary, and a student has the right to rescind the authorization at any time and request the credit balance be refunded. To Top Note Regarding Admission Deposits A non-refundable deposit is required of new students in some schools within the University in order to reserve a place in the entering class. The amount of a paid deposit may be deducted from the amount due on the first Student Account Statement of a term if the credit is not reflected on that Statement. Deposits are not refundable due to non-registration. If admission is being deferred, the appropriate school’s admission office should be contacted to determine if the deposit can be credited to a later term. To Top Note Regarding Refunds for Overpayment Refunds will be issued on credit balances resulting from an overpayment of the student account. Payments resulting in a credit balance, made by any of the payment methods below, are subject to a waiting period before SFS can issue the refund. Personal Check: 10 days ACH Payment: 7 days Loan Checks: 1 day To Top Policy Statement and Further Information For more information on refunds, please see the Policy on Student Account Credit Balances and Refunds, or contact us by email. To Top Quick Links SSOL Forms & Docs Administrator Portal Alumni Information About Us Contact Our Service Centers Departments Registrar ID Center E-Billing Housing Dining Health Forms SFS Forms Veterans Forms HR Forms Finance Forms CUMC IT Service Forms IT Systems Email Services SIS SSOL Software Downloads myColumbia ARC Portal Training Courseworks Lynda.com Getting Help Service Center Ask Us IT Help Office Locations © 2022 The Trustees of Columbia University in the City of New York