Menu Close Menu Skip to content Information For: Prospective Students Current Students Alumni Faculty & Staff Friends & Supporters A to Z index Search for: Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health Email People Departments Calendar Careers my.harvard Giving About Faculty & Research Admissions & Aid Academics Executive/Continuing Ed News News > News > In the News > 2022 > Better data needed around deaths in police custody News Menu Search for: News Home Press Releases 2020 Releases 2019 Releases 2018 Releases 2017 Releases 2016 Releases 2015 Releases 2014 Releases 2013 Releases 2012 Releases 2011 Releases Search the press releases archive Features In the News Multimedia 2021 Multimedia 2020 Multimedia 2019 Multimedia 2018 Multimedia 2017 Multimedia 2016 Multimedia 2015 Multimedia 2014 Multimedia 2013 Multimedia 2012 Multimedia HPH Magazine Faculty Stories Faculty News, Notes, and Accolades Student Stories Student News, Notes, and Accolades Alumni Stories Explore Research by Topic Office of Communications Make a Gift Better data needed around deaths in police custody May 26, 2022—Two years after the killing of George Floyd by a police officer—and nearly 10 since the start of the Black Lives Matter movement—researchers are examining whether the ensuing protests and national conversation around racism and inequity have had led to any decline in the use of lethal force by police. As reported in a May 18, 2022 Undark article, the number of people killed nationwide by police has remained stable, but numbers have gone down in certain communities. Researcher Travis Campbell of the University of Massachusetts Amherst, for example, used statistical modeling to compare census tracts that had experienced at least one Black Lives Matter protest between 2014 and 2019 to those that did not. The study found that those with protests experienced a 15% to 20% decrease in police homicides over the study period—around 300 fewer deaths. Determining the impact of protests on police killings would be easier with better data, according to Justin Feldman, a research associate at Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health. “There have been some efforts at the state legislative level to collect better data on use of force,” he told Undark. “But for whatever reason this has largely gone under the radar of academia and policy.” A call to action he co-authored last year noted that “the United States does not even have an official nationwide system that documents all deaths in police custody, much less one that provides detailed and timely data to the public,” and offered recommendations including establishing review committees for deaths in police custody and reforming death investigations. Read the Undark article: Has the BLM Movement Influenced Police Use of Lethal Force? Learn more Reforming investigation of police killings in the U.S. (Harvard Chan School news) More than half of police killings not officially documented on U.S. death certificates (Harvard Chan School release) Share this:FacebookTwitterLinkedInReddit Subscribe The COVID-19 Update Our researchers are on the front lines of the global response to the COVID-19 pandemic. Sign up here to receive our weekly newsletter highlighting their efforts. Join mailing list Additional newsletters and mailing lists Related Articles racism violence Racism, sexism, social class, and health—30 years ago and today Could breastfeeding explain disparities in sudden infant deaths? Racial disparities in government responses to asthma-triggering housing conditions More on this topic Why there’s so much gun violence in the U.S.—and what to do about it Getting to know … Patience Saaka, MPH ’22 The costs of gun violence More on this topic Explore HSPH research by topic Harvard Chan School News on Twitter In the wake of a May 24 mass shooting at a Uvalde, Texas, elementary school that left 19 students and two teachers… https://t.co/x8GHo0fMZS RT @dengdiit: This week,I had the honor and responsibility of receiving a master’s degree in public health with concentration in health pol… RT @Harvard: “Don’t let your generation be defined by the pandemic. Let it be defined by public service,” said Attorney General Merrick Gar… RT @HarvardCCHANGE: Looking for ways to take action on #climate? The Climate Health Organizing Fellowship trains health professionals to u… RT @HarvardCCHANGE: Creativity is turning coal mines, landfills, and toxic waters into opportunities for #CleanEnergy. Your lights yearn to… RT @HarvardCenterHH: What is the relationship between #technology and #happiness? This @Forbes article offers potential considerations, wit… Information For: Prospective Students Current Students Alumni Faculty & Staff Friends & Supporters About Key Facts Renaming the School Office of the Dean Location and Facilities Administrative Offices Contact Us Faculty and Research Faculty and Researcher Directory Academic Departments, Divisions and Centers International Research Postdoctoral Research Fellows Office of Faculty Affairs Faculty Searches Office of Diversity and Inclusion Admissions & Aid Why Harvard Chan Degree Programs Non-Degree Programs Financial Aid Student Experience Career Advancement Apply Academics Academic Departments Divisions Research Centers Flagship Initiatives International Research Research Administration and Support Degree Programs Fellowships and Residencies Summer Programs Continuing Professional Education Interdisciplinary Concentrations Academic Calendar Harvard Chan Viewbook Executive/Continuing Ed Program Offerings Custom Programs Request Information News and Resources About ECPE Contact News Featured News Press Releases Student Stories In the News Newsletters HPH Magazine Why Public Health? Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health 677 Huntington Avenue Boston, MA 02115 +1 (617) 495‑1000 Twitter Facebook YouTube LinkedIn Instagram iTunes Harvard Chan Home Contact Us Harvard University Home Make a Gift Privacy Policy Report Copyright Violation Accessibility Copyright © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College