COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW Details: Graphic Design Communication, Minor MinorGraphic Design Communication All Programs Fairmount College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Elliott School of Communication Wichita State's minor in graphic design communication is exclusively for students working toward a BFA in graphic design. The minor helps you build additional skills that complement your graphic design degree—from writing and editing to integrated marketing and campaigns—making you more marketable to employers. Learn how graphic design communication is the right fit for you. Request Info Start Your Application Applied learning at Wichita State At Wichita State, applied learning is everything. In fact, every degree we offer has a guaranteed applied learning or research experience built right into it equipping you with the relevant skills and experience to make you workforce ready before graduation. Learn about our innovative approach Admission to the program To be admitted into the College of Fine Arts, you must first be admitted to Wichita State. For WSU's admission requirements, and to apply, click the link below. Admission requirements Inside the Program Childhood passion turns into graphic design career Communication students are free to pursue their passions as part of their careers. Most small children go through a phase when they're more interested in the box a toy came in than the actual toy. That fascination never went away for graphic design alumna Lauren Osoba. "Growing up, I would often save packaging or even leave products unopened to preserve it," she says. "At Wichita State, I had an 'ah-ha' moment when I realized people do this for a career." Buoyed by her experience at WSU, Osoba is now a successful graphic designer and illustrator, specializing in branding and print design. Curriculum The 15-credit-hour minor covers: Writing for the Mass Audience Integrated Marketing Communication Editing for Print Advertising Copywriting Integrated Marketing Communications Campaigns Senior Portfolio Seminar (optional but encouraged) View the curriculum Careers A degree in graphic design from Wichita State will help build your skills, your confidence and your portfolio—leading to careers such as creative director, advertising executive, communications professional and designer in a wide range of settings. Learn more about careers in this field Similar Programs Communication (Minor) Communication - Integrated Marketing Communication Graphic Design (Minor) Graphic Design 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©