Skip to main content University of Washington Research Contact Us About Office of Research Announcements UW Home Quick Links MyResearch Project Lifecycle Plan/Propose Plan/Propose Overview Develop Hypothesis/Question Select Funding Source Conduct Literature Search Sponsor Requirements Recruit Team Budget Facilities and Resources Write Proposal Submit Proposal Tools MyResearch SAGE Zipline More Tools Setup Setup Overview Sponsor Requirements Facilities and Resources Financials Subawards Compliance Requirements (Non-Financial) Records and Documentation Methods Collaborations Data Collection Tools MyResearch SAGE Zipline More Tools Manage Manage Overview Financials Compliance Requirements (Non-Financial) Facilities and Resources Collect Data Analyze Data Subawards Award Changes Reporting Tools MyResearch SAGE Zipline More Tools Closeout Closeout Overview Financials Subawards Equipment and Materials Reporting Dissemination of Results Data Sharing Records Retention Tools MyResearch SAGE Zipline More Tools Resources Support Offices Human Subjects Division Office of Animal Welfare Office of Research Central Office of Research Information Services Office of Sponsored Programs Research Units Applied Physics Laboratory Washington National Primate Research Center Browse Forms and Templates Policies, Procedures and Guidance Announcements Glossary FAQs Popular Resources Funding Opportunities Grants Information Memorandum (GIMs) Institutional Facts and Rates Research Stats & Rankings New to UW Research UWFT for the Research Community Tools MyResearch SAGE Zipline More Tools Collaboration Connect to Expertise Find Research Expertise Research Centers and Institutes Resources for Collaboration Interdisciplinary Resources Guidance for NIH Institutional Training Grants Collaborative Proposal Development Resources Establish a Research Center or Institute Shared Research Facilities and Resources Tools MyResearch SAGE Zipline More Tools Compliance Compliance Overview Compliance Training Training Overview Research Training Overview Collaborative for Research Education Required Research Training Research Administration Learning HSD Training and Education MyResearch Training Transcript Home UW Research MyResearch Project Lifecycle Manage Reporting UW Research Menu MyResearch Project Lifecycle Plan/Propose Setup Manage Closeout Resources Collaboration Compliance Training Reporting Close Menu Home Manage Financials Program Income Compliance Requirements (Non-Financial) Human Subjects Research Animal Use Export Controls Financial Conflict of Interest (FCOI) Environmental Health & Safety Information Privacy and Security Faculty Effort Certification Audit Facilities & Resources Collect Data Analyze Data Subawards Award Changes Budget Extension Process Early Termination and Relinquishment Reporting Review information on managing various types of reports for sponsored programs. Contents External Reporting Progress /Performance Reports Progress Reports and the eGC1 Research Performance Progress Reports (RPPR) NIH RPPR Submission Internal Reporting Financial Reporting External Reporting Progress / Performance Reports Progress or Performance reports help sponsors determine eligibility for non-competing renewal/continuation funding. These reports: Document accomplishments and compliance with the terms of awards. Are often required on an annual basis, though a sponsor may request them at different intervals. When required annually, reports should: describe scientific progress, identify significant changes, report on personnel and plans for next budget period. Review the award and sponsor terms & conditions to determine frequency, content, and other requirements. Late or missing progress reports can lead to delayed funding. In most cases, funding agencies will not release incremental funding without timely submission of a progress report. Most sponsors allow the Principal Investigator (PI) to submit their annual progress reports directly to the sponsor. Examples: NIH: Annual RPPR for SNAP eligible awards: eRA Commons Review UW NIH RPPR Submission Process Health Resources and Services Administration (HRSA) electronic Handbook NSF: Project Reporting in Research.gov Looking for guidance on your Final Progress Reports? Review guidance and information on Closeout Reporting. Progress Reports and the eGC1 If the sponsor allows direct submission, an eGC1 is not required. It is the PI’s responsibility to retain a copy within departmental files according to UW Records Retention. OSP does not need a copy. When do I need to prepare an eGC1 for progress reports/RPPRs? While you do not have to prepare an eGC1 when the sponsor allows direct submission of a progress report, an eGC1 is still required for many other types of progress reports. OSP will return eGC1s without review if submitted when they are not needed. When is an eGC1 needed for a progress report? Route a Non-Competing Renewal eGC1 when a sponsor requires OSP signature or submission on a progress report such as: NIH non-SNAP eligible awards Review How do I know if an award is SNAP eligible? Some federal flow-through awards IF the pass through entity requires signature or a Letter of Intent Don’t assume they require a signature. Confirm with the pass-through entity before preparing an eGC1. eGC1s are NOT needed for progress reports when: Sponsor allows direct submission of the progress report by the PI. NIH: SNAP eligible Annual, Interim, and Final RPPRs Fred Hutchinson Cancer Center (FHCC) FHCC does not require OSP signature on progress report materials / Letter of Intent for non-competing years. Whether an eGC1 is required for a progress report or not, don’t forget to update the personnel section of the original eGC1 whenever personnel join or leave a research project. Personnel added to an eGC1 will need to complete a disclosure in Financial Interest Disclosure System (FIDS). Research Performance Progress Report (RPPR) Most federal agencies require the PI to submit Annual, Interim and Final RPPRs for grants. Some awards allow the PI to submit their RPPR directly, while others require the PI to initiate their RPPR and route it to the Signing Official, your OSP reviewer. Information needed to complete an RPPR: Basic institutional and project identifying data Signing Official (SO) field: Should list the current OSP Director, Carol Rhodes or your OSP reviewer Accomplishments from past activity period and goals for upcoming activity period Outcomes or “products” from the activity such as technologies and publications Review NIH Public Access Policy guidance Effort of all personnel, including all collaborators Impact of the project and major contributions for example: to the discipline, human resources (teaching, training), public knowledge, social conditions Changes to the project: delay in plans, changes in approach, compliance (animal use, human subject involvement, biohazards), other support, etc. Don’t forget to update changes in personnel on the eGC1. Any personnel added will need to complete a FIDS disclosure for that eGC1 Budget information (if required) If applicable: protocol for Animal Subjects or Human Subjects Enrollment data We recommend PIs reach out to their departmental Grant / Research Administrators for help completing the RPPR or locating more details for personnel calendar months, unobligated balances etc. Consider delegating the ASST role in eRA Commons to someone who can help initiate or complete the RPPR in eRA Commons. NIH RPPR Submission Process NIH requires RPPR submission through eRA Commons. Featured Resources: NIH: RPPR FAQ NIH: RPPR User Guide NIH: Human Subjects System (HSS) Training Resources Inclusion Enrollment Submission Process UW RPPR FAQs NIH Annual, Interim, and Interim Report Additional Materials Instructions In addition to UW guidance below, the NIH RPPR User Guide provides instructions from NIH that apply to the Annual, Interim, and Final RPPR. Annual RPPR Instructions Initiate NIH RPPR Login to eRA Commons Click Status tab to view a list of your grants Select RPPR link from Action column Click Initiate to create the RPPR for that grant. The status will be “Work in Progress” Alert your departmental grant / research administrator Consider delegating the ASST role to someone in your unit. Use the ‘Route’ button for a Work in Progress RPPR so individuals delegated the ASST role can help complete it. More on eRA Commons Roles. Completing the NIH RPPR Is the award a SNAP eligible award? How do I know if an award is SNAP eligible? SNAP Eligible RPPRs: PIs will see a submit button in eRA commons. Review Information Needed to Complete an RPPR. Fill out all fields and upload all attachments. When applicable use Human Subjects System (HSS).. Complete HSS records & mark ‘Ready for Submission’ ‘Submit’ button should be active for PI Once HSS records have been submitted, you should see the HSS data within the RPPR. Do not submit the RPPR until after HSS updates appear within the RPPR. All information in the RPPR must be complete, accurate, and follow NIH guidelines. No eGC1 is needed. Submit the RPPR directly to NIH. Retain a copy within departmental files according to UW Records Retention. OSP does not need a copy. NON-SNAP RPPRs: If the award is NOT SNAP eligible: Alert your departmental grant / research administrator. Consider delegating the ASST role to someone in your unit. Use ‘Route’ button for a Work in Progress RPPR so individuals delegated ASST role can help complete. More on eRA Commons Roles. Review Information Needed to Complete an RPPR. Fill out all fields and upload all attachments. When applicable use Human Subjects System (HSS). Complete HSS records & mark ‘Ready for Submission’ If the Submit button is active for the PI, PI submits the HSS record If the Submit button is not active for the PI, twice a week (Tues & Thurs) OSP will submit all HSS records ‘Ready for Submission’. Send special requests for HSS submission to osp@uw.edu. Once HSS records have been submitted, you should see the HSS data within the RPPR. Do not submit the RPPR until after HSS updates appear within the RPPR. All information in the RPPR must be complete, accurate, and follow NIH guidelines. Route the RPPR to the Signing Official (SO), your OSP reviewer, in eRA Commons. Attach a PDF copy of the completed RPPR from eRA Commons on a Non-Competing Renewal eGC1 and route to your OSP reviewer. The eGC1 should be ‘Ready to Submit’ and ‘In OSP’ at least 5 business days before the NIH RPPR due date. eGC1s that have multiple office reviewers and approvals in SAGE take longer. Plan ahead. OSP reviews and submits within 5 business days of the RPPR being Ready to Submit. The GIM 19 waiver process does not apply to RPPRs. Check for Errors and Warnings Use ‘Check for Errors’ from RPPR Menu and address all errors. Review how to address common errors and warnings in eRA Commons RPPRs (including Interim and Final RPPRs). Interim RPPR Instructions If the award is eligible for a competing renewal, a link to initiate an Interim RPPR will be available on the eRA Commons “Status” screen. NIH requires an Interim report for the final year of a competitive segment. An Interim RPPR must be submitted, even if: The Interim RPPR is due after the start date of renewal. Renewal has already been awarded. If a renewal is funded the Interim RPPR serves as the annual RPPR for final year of previous competitive segment. If renewal is not funded the Interim RPPR becomes the Final RPPR for the project. Both the Interim RPPR and the Final RPPR are identical in process and information required. Completing the Interim NIH RPPR Initiate and complete Interim RPPRs 90 days from the project end date. Is the award a SNAP eligible award? How do I know if an award is SNAP eligible? SNAP Eligible RPPRs: PIs will see a submit button in eRA commons. Review Information Needed to Complete an RPPR. Fill out all fields and upload all attachments. When applicable use Human Subjects System (HSS). Complete HSS records & mark ‘Ready for Submission’ ‘Submit’ button should be active for PI Once HSS records have been submitted, you should see the HSS data within the RPPR. Do not submit the RPPR until after HSS updates appear within the RPPR. All information in the RPPR must be complete, accurate, and follow NIH guidelines. No eGC1 is needed. Submit the RPPR directly to NIH. Retain a copy within departmental files according to UW Records Retention. OSP does not need a copy. NON-SNAP RPPRs: If the award is NOT SNAP eligible: Alert your departmental grant / research administrator. Consider delegating the ASST role to someone in your unit. ‘Route’ the Work in Progress RPPR to individuals delegated ASST role can help complete. More on eRA Commons Roles. Review Information Needed to Complete an RPPR. Fill out all fields and upload all attachments. When applicable use Human Subjects System (HSS). Complete HSS records & mark ‘Ready for Submission’. If ‘Submit’ button is active for the PI, submit the HSS record. If the Submit button is not active for the PI, twice a week (Tues & Thurs) OSP will submit all HSS records that are ‘Ready for Submission’. Send special requests for HSS submission to osp@uw.edu. Once HSS records have been submitted, you should see the HSS data within the RPPR. Do not submit the RPPR until after HSS updates appear within the RPPR. All information in the RPPR must be complete, accurate, and follow NIH guidelines. Route the RPPR to the Signing Official (SO), your OSP reviewer, in eRA Commons. Attach a PDF copy of the completed RPPR from eRA Commons on a Non-Competing Renewal eGC1 and route to your OSP reviewer. The eGC1 should be ‘Ready to Submit’ and ‘In OSP’ at least 5 business days before the NIH RPPR due date. eGC1s that have multiple office reviewers and approvals in SAGE take longer. Plan ahead. OSP reviews and submits within 5 business days of the RPPR being Ready to Submit. The GIM 19 waiver process does not apply to RPPRs. Check for Errors and Warnings Click Check for Errors On RPPR Menu and address all errors. Review How to address common errors and warnings in eRA Commons RPPRs (including Interim and Final RPPRs). Submitting Interim Report Additional Materials / IRAM If the Project Outcomes of an I-RPPR didn’t use plain language, shared proprietary information, or included Personally Identifiable Information (PII), NIH will request a revised Project Outcomes. To complete the request, navigate to the award in the Commons. Select IRAM from the additional actions. Enter revised Project Outcomes in the IRAM Project Outcomes text box. Do not upload as an attachment. Learn more about the NIH RPPR: IRAM and FRAM. Need to update or change eRA Commons login or account credentials? Contact your department administrator with eRA Commons AO access. If no local administrator is available, contact osp@uw.edu. SNAP Eligible RPPR Submit Delegation OSP as the UW Signing Official (SO) has delegated submission authority for SNAP eligible RPPRs to all active PIs affiliated with the UW in eRA Commons. OSP checks eRA Commons the last business day of the month for newly affiliated PIs needing this delegation. If a new PIs needs delegated submit authority before the last business day of the month, email osp@uw.edu. SNAP eligible awards are submitted directly to NIH via eRA commons by the PI. Review instructions that follow for more details. Internal-UW Reports Financial Conflict of Interest (FCOI) Significant Financial Interests (SFIs) are required to be disclosed using the Financial Interest Disclosure System (FIDS), step-by-step instructions are available to request SFI review for sponsored research progress report submission. Innovation Reports Principal Investigators must report all innovations to CoMotion, using a Record of Innovation Form (ROI). Financial Reporting When a new budget is established, Grant and Contract Accounting (GCA) reviews the award agreement to determine financial reporting requirements and deadlines. Interim reports: Required quarterly, semi-annually or, in the case of multi-year awards, annually. Final reports: Required after an award is completed. Not all awards require financial reporting. Invoice transaction details may serve the same function as a financial report for the sponsor. The award will detail if financial reporting is required. More information on financial reporting from Grant and Contract Accounting. Reporting Cost Share Cost Share Reporting Faculty & Non Faculty Effort Reporting Faculty Effort Certification(s) Reporting (FECs) Grant and Contract Certification (GCCR) reporting (Non-faculty effort) Review the UW Effort Reporting Policy – GIM 35 Contact Management Accounting & Analysis with questions. Forms, Tools, and Resources MyResearch Portal Data Management Resources at UW Guidance for NIH Institutional Training Grants MAA: Faculty Effort Certification (FEC) Equipment Inventory Office: Reporting Inventory GCA: Reporting Your Award UW Health Sciences Library: NIH Public Access Policy Help Guide NIH: PubMed Dissemination of Results Office of Sponsored Programs MAA: Grant & Contract Certification Report (GCCR) GCA: Cost Share NIH: RPPR FAQs UW: Current and Pending, or Other Support UW: Research Administration Data Policy, Regulation, and Guidance GIM 19 – Internal Deadlines for Proposals to External Entities NIH Public Access Policy NIH: Research Performance Progress Report (RPPR) NIH: Project Outcomes from Interim and Final RPPRs in RePORTER NIH: Human Subjects System (HSS) NIH: RPPRs – Who Can Do What? Frequently Asked Questions Foreign Influence Through the Research Lifecycle How do I address common errors and warnings in eRA… How do I know if an NIH award is SNAP… How do I update affiliation in eRA Commons for myself… Research Performance Progress Report (RPPR) FAQs When do I need to prepare an eGC1 for a… Related Announcements April 13, 2022 Genomic Data Sharing Policy Update: National Institute on Alcohol Abuse and Alcoholism January 3, 2022 Research Administration Register for the Jan 18th BI Webinar – Your Data, Only Better June 17, 2021 Sponsor Requirements NSF: Pre & Post Award Disclosures Reference Information May 19, 2021 Sponsor Requirements NIH: PDF Guidance as of May 25th, 2021 All Announcements Home Manage Financials Program Income Compliance Requirements (Non-Financial) Human Subjects Research Animal Use Export Controls Financial Conflict of Interest (FCOI) Environmental Health & Safety Information Privacy and Security Faculty Effort Certification Audit Facilities & Resources Collect Data Analyze Data Subawards Award Changes Budget Extension Process Early Termination and Relinquishment Reporting Do I need to disclose Significant Financial Interest? SFI Review for Sponsored Research Progress Reporting University of Washington Office of Research Tools MyResearch SAGE Zipline More Tools OR Support Offices Human Subjects Division (HSD) Office of Animal Welfare (OAW) Office of Research (OR) Office of Research Information Services (ORIS) Office of Sponsored Programs (OSP) OR Research Units Applied Physics Laboratory (APL-UW) WA National Primate Research Center (WaNPRC) Research Partner Offices CoMotion Corporate and Foundation Relations (CFR) Enivronmental Health and Safety (EH&S) Grant and Contract Accounting (GCA) Institute of Translational Health Sciences (ITHS) Management Accounting and Analysis (MAA) Post Award Fiscal Compliance (PAFC) Collaboration Research Expertise Centers and Institutes Interdisciplinary Resources Guidance for NIH Institutional Training Grants Collaborative Proposal Development Resources About Research Fact Sheet Research Annual Report Stats and Rankings Honors and Awards Office of Research Contact Us Manage Subscriptions Gerberding Hall G80 Box 351202 Seattle, WA 98195 Accessibility Jobs Campus Safety My UW Privacy Terms © 2022 University of Washington | Seattle, WA