Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Scholarships Important Announcements Scholarship Opportunities Tiger Scholarship Manager HOPE Scholarship Forms FAQs Summer 3+3 Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact Take Action Tiger Scholarship Manager Submitting a Scholarship Check Service Hours Contact Us Home Scholarships Submitting a Scholarship Check Submitting a Scholarship Check Did you receive a scholarship from an entity outside of the University of Memphis (UofM)? Congratulations! Please follow these steps to have the scholarship credited to your account. Was the check sent to you by the scholarship donor? Make sure that the scholarship check has your name and your UofM U ID number listed on the Memo at the bottom of the check OR in any attached information that may accompany the check. If you go by a nickname or your middle name, be sure to provide your legal name. Check to see whether the check is written just to the UofM, or to both the UofM and you. If your name is included in the “Pay to the Order of” line, you will need to endorse the check by signing the back of it. Make a copy of your award letter or any information included with the scholarship check (such as a check stub). We will need a copy of this information, but you should also keep a copy for your records. Mail the scholarship check and any accompanying paperwork or information to the UofM address below to be applied to your account. Be sure to use the correct address; sending the check to the wrong UofM department will result in delays of a few days or more! The University of Memphis P.O. Box 1000, Dept. 313 Memphis, TN 38148-0313 If you plan to deliver a scholarship letter or check in person, the University & Student Business Services Office is located in 115 Wilder Tower. What happens next? If you don’t see the scholarship applied to your UofM account as quickly as you expect, please check with the donor to determine when the check was mailed. Allow at least two weeks from this date for the check to arrive and be processed. We will generally apply the scholarship to your account within three to five business days. We may experience delays due to issues including, but not limited to, missing signatures and other aid adjustments. We will divide the scholarship into two equal portions for fall and spring, unless the scholarship donor provides alternate instructions in an accompanying letter. We will update to your financial aid awards to reflect receipt of the Outside Scholarship Money so that you can see the scholarship has been applied. You can view this by following these steps: Log into your myMemphis portal Click on the Account$ tab Click on Financial Aid Awards Select the applicable aid year View the award Will the check be sent directly to the UofM by the scholarship donor? Please ask the scholarship donor to visit our website memphis.edu/scholarships, or print the information on the page and provide it to the donor. Questions? Please contact us! Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/23/20 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.