Your browser does not support JavaScript! Your browser does not support JavaScript! Skip to main content Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Canvas | Webmail | Contact Us Request Info Apply Now eCourseware | Webmail | Contact Us Request Info Apply Now About UofM Global Learn More Rankings Accreditations Contact Us Degrees & Programs Undergraduate Graduate Certificates All Programs Complimentary Courses Admissions Apply Now Request Info Financial Aid Tuition & Fees Current Students Student Services & Support Register for Courses Graduation Home UofM Global MAAP MAAP - MLH Employees Get Started Learn More High School Equivalency MAAP Prep Academy Students Current MAAP Students MAAP in the News Need Help? Call 844-302-3886 Email Us MLH Associate Advancement Program UofM Global collaborated with Methodist Le Bonheur Healthcare to offer Associates higher education degree and certificate options as part of MAAP: MLH Associate Advancement Program. There are potentially no out-of-pocket tuition costs, as long as you meet eligibility requirements and are in good academic standing. Plus, you will have courses suited to your prior education, 24/7 tutoring and a UofM Global Advocate to help you along the way. I still have a few questions... If you want to learn more and talk to a UofM Global Advocate, complete this form or contact maap@memphis.edu or 844.302.3886. I'm ready to get started! Complete the MAAP interest form below. After MLH confirms you meet the eligibility criteria, your UofM Global Advocate will contact you to help map out the best route. *MAAP program available to the following eligible Associates: Full and part time Associates with MLH who have completed at least 6 months of continuous full or part-time employment Most recent MLH performance evaluation "meets" or "exceeds expectations," or is in good standing if prior to first evaluation Not currently on leave of absence, excluding FMLA Have not previously earned a bachelor's degree (This restriction does not apply to MAAP certification programs) Refer to guidelines on MOLLI for details. Unsure of your eligibility? Please contact your supervisor to confirm before completing. <!-- intentionally non-empty iframe; for xsl --> Current Prep Academy Students > Current MAAP Students > About UofM Global Learn More Ranked Online Degrees Accreditations Contact Us Degrees and Programs Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs Certificates Corporate Partners Complimentary Courses Admissions Apply Now Request Info Financial Aid Tuition & Fees Contact Us Tuition Financial Aid Students Canvas Student Services & Support SmartStart Learning Support Technology Support Advising Register for Courses Experiential Learning Credit Graduation Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 3/31/22 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.