Skip to main content Skip to primary site menu Google Tag Manager Search form Search Explore Brown University Search Global Navigation Learn More About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life Find A to Z Index People Directory Information for Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Top Destinations Global Brown Watson Institute Graduate School Alpert Medical School School of Public Health School of Engineering Global Brown Center for International Students Home About Global Brown Lounge Meet Our Team Stay in Touch! Incoming Students Undergraduate Students Graduate Students What to Bring Banking and Finances Cultural Adjustment Cell Phones Current Students Additional Resources Academic and Language Campus Life & Student Services Health Care & Insurance Immigration and Visas Working as a Student Providence and Rhode Island Life After Brown Site Navigation Home About Global Brown Lounge Meet Our Team Andrew Heald Stay in Touch! Incoming Students Undergraduate Students About the International Mentoring Program (IMP) International Undergraduate Orientation Fall 2022 Graduate Students What to Bring Banking and Finances Cultural Adjustment Cell Phones Current Students GBC Programs & Events Semester Breaks and Summer Additional Resources Academic and Language Campus Life & Student Services Health Care & Insurance Immigration and Visas Working as a Student Providence and Rhode Island Life After Brown Global Brown Lounge Located in Page-Robinson Hall 310, the new Global Brown Lounge — aka the Globe — is a dedicated space for Brown's international community. Opened in January 2018, the Globe offers a comfortable “home away from home” for our international students, scholars, and visitors. In addition, the Office of International Student and Scholar Services (OISSS), the Dean for International Students, the Program Director and Program Coordinator for the Global Brown Center for International Students, and the Office of Global Engagement are all co-located in Page-Robinson Hall Suite 313. Things to know about the Globe and the GBC: Free coffee, hot chocolate, and tea provided. You can book the space! Our space is dedicated for the international student community, so if you have an event or meeting you'd like to host in the Globe that serves our community, you can book it here. Come to your new favorite study spot at Brown and meet your fellow international students! About Global Brown Lounge Meet Our Team Stay in Touch! Global Brown Center for International Students Global Brown Center for International Students Campus Life & Student Services Box 1840 Page-Robinson Hall 312 69 Brown Street Providence, RI 02912 Phone: 401-863-6397 Email [email protected] Facebook Facebook Instagram Instagram Brown University Giving to Brown Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA 401-863-1000 Contact Us Maps Directions Career Opportunities Campus Safety Accessibility All Social Media © 2022 Brown University | Back to top