Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Graduate School Future Students Current Students Degrees News & Events Resources Contact Us Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact Current Students Academics Tuition+Fees Financial Aid + Funding Get Involved Graduation Key Campus Resources External Resources Take Action Apply Now! Degree Programs Calendar Contact Us Follow Us Online InstagramFacebooktwitter Home Graduate School Current Students Info for Current Students For the most up-to-date information about the university's response to the current Coronavirus situation can be found on the Coronavirus Updates website. At the University of Memphis, we take pride in putting our students first. You will find important resources here to help you be successful and make the most of your graduate school experience. Access All Grad School Forms > Academics Graduate School Calendar View important dates and deadlines for the Grad School academic calendar, graduation, dissertations, etc. Final Exam Schedules Final exam schedules and other official calendars are hosted on the Registrar's site. Degree Program Directory Find key contacts for each of the graduate degree programs. Advising Graduate advising is managed within each department. If you're unsure who your advisor is, contact the program coordinator listed on the Degree Program Directory. Departments assign advisors upon admission based on areas of interest. After students have matriculated and enrolled in coursework under various faculty members, students may select a different advisor. To inquire about your academic advisor, please contact the office of the graduate coordinator or department chair for your program. Register for Classes The Registrar's Office provides information about registering for classes. Review dates and deadlines, select courses and view instructions. Procedure for Late Drops & Withdraws Review the policies and procedures for withdrawing from a course. Thesis/Dissertation Thesis/Dissertation Preparation Guide This guide details requirements for preparing and submitting master's theses and doctoral dissertations to the Graduate School for review and for submission to the Electronic Thesis and Dissertation (ETD) archival system and ProQuest. This link includes all forms required for the review process. Thesis/Dissertation Defense Announcement Form All students must submit a Thesis/Dissertation Defense Announcement form at least three weeks prior to the date of their defense. Research Research Resources for Students The Division of Research and Innovation provides resources to assist with each step of the research process. Institutional Review Board (IRB) If you wan to perform research with human subjects, you must first consult IRB and receive approval. Online Learning Support Keep Learning: Online Learning Support Get an intro to eCourseware, learn more about Zoom and Microsoft Teams and access other resources to support online learning, including hardware. Online Tutoring This service is FREE to current UofM students and allows you to work in real-time with a tutor or submit a question online 24 / 7 (subject to tutor availability). UofM Global Student Support Online students have access to a range of student support services for online learning, registration, advising and more. UofM Global: Online Degree Programs Learn more about the University's fully-online degree program, UofM Global. Tuition + Fees Fee Information University & Student Business Services (USBS) is home to all things tuition and fees. See deadlines, get an explanation of fees and pay your tuition. Cost of Attendance Estimator Estimate your tuition and other associated fees including housing and meals. Tuition Cap For graduate resident students, all credit hours above 10 will be offered at no additional tuition charge, but student will be charged fees if applicable. Border County Tuition Waiver UofM accommodates students from border counties in Arkansas and Mississippi with a waiver of the non-resident portion of regular tuition. Financial Aid + Funding Sources Financial Aid Learn more about funding and financial aid for graduate students. Scholarships Graduate students can apply for competitive scholarships in Tiger Scholarship Manager. Contact the Scholarship Office for more information. Graduate Assistantships Graduate teaching and research assistantships are available in most of the academic areas, requiring 3-20 hours of service per week. Learn more about responsibilities and opportunities. Fellowships and Awards While some awards require a nomination by a college/department, there are opportunities available for which you can apply. Federal Assistance Opportunities Explore external funding resources including FAFSA, federal tax benefits for students, opportunities for women and minorities and more. Veterans Educational Benefits & Certification Veterans, learn more about utilizing your educational benefits. Get Involved Graduate Student Association All enrolled graduate students are automatically members of the GSA. All graduate students are encouraged to participate in GSA discussions and activities, and may serve on GSA committees and working groups. Graduate Student Rights & Responsibilities These principles illustrate what graduate students should expect from their programs and what programs should expect from their graduate students to help achieve excellence. Graduate Student Spotlight One grad student will be featured in the Research & Innovation newsletter each month. Nominate yourself or a colleague today! Graduation Graduation Information View key dates and deadlines and step-by-step instructions for applying to graduate. Key Campus Resources Adult Student Services Center Access resources for adult students on campus, including the Adult Student Association. Career Services Seek help with your resume, interview training, find job opportunities and more. Center for International Educational Services (CIES) The Center for International Education Services is the institutional home for the Study Abroad Office, Intensive English for Internationals Office (IEI), and International Student Services (ISS). Computer Labs Locate computer labs on campus. iPrint: On-Campus Printing iPrint is an on-campus wireless printing system. Students are encouraged to take advantage of printing services available at all Technology Access Fee (TAF) funded printers on campus. Counseling Center The Counseling Center offers free counseling, wellness and psychiatric services. Degree or Enrollment Verification Request proof that you are enrolled at the University of Memphis or that you have earned a degree from the University of Memphis. Disability Resources for Students (DRS) DRS arranges, coordinates and provides academic accommodations and support services for qualified students with disabilities. Educational Support Programs (ESP) Learn more about on-campus learning centers, tutoring (in-person and online) and other educational support services. Registrar Student Resources Learn more about grades, requesting transcripts, changing personal data and more. SPEAK Test for International Teaching Assistants Determine if you need to complete an English Language Proficiency Test and view directions for applying to take the test. umTech | Information Technology Services (ITS) Your go-to for anything online tech related (or contact umtech@memphis.edu or 901.678.8888). External Resources National Graduate Student Crisis Line The National Grad Crisis Line helps graduate students reach free, confidential telephone counseling, crisis intervention, suicide prevention, and information and referral services provided by specially-trained call-takers. Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 11/18/21 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.