Skip navigation Information For: Current Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Brown University About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life A to Z Index People Directory Welcome to English at Brown Philip Gould, Writing the Rebellion More info... Richard Rambuss, The English Poems of Richard Crashaw More info... Mutlu Blasing: The Life and Poetry of Nâzim Hikmet read more... Timothy Bewes The Event of Postcolonial Shame Jacques Khalip Last Things Stuart Burrows, A Familiar Strangeness: American Fiction and the Language of Photography more info... Jim Egan, Oriental Shadows: The Presence of the East in Early American Literature more info... Paul B. Armstrong, How Literature Plays with the Brain: The Neuroscience of Reading and Art More info... James Kuzner, Open Subjects More info... Rolland Murray, Our Living Manhood: Literature, Black Power, and Masculine Ideology More info... Melinda Alliker Rabb, Satire and Secrecy in English Literature from 1650 to 1750 More info... Ravit Reichman, The Affective Life of Law Legal Modernism and the Literary Imagination More info... Marc Redfield, The Rhetoric of Terror: Reflections on 9/11 and the War on Terror More info... Amanda Anderson Psyche and Ethos Deak Nabers, Victory of Law: The Fourteenth Amendment, the Civil War, and American Literature More info... Daniel Kim, Writing Manhood in Black and Yellow: Ralph Ellison, Frank Chin, and the Literary Politics of Identity More info... Leela Gandhi: Affective Communities More info... Kevin McLaughlin, Poetic Force: Poetry after Kant To Read More... Olakunle George African Literature and Social Change Statement from the English Department Faculty More info... Statement of Solidarity from the English Department Faculty We acknowledge and condemn the series of recent incidences of racist violence against people of color, and black people especially. We are appalled by the long history of such episodes, which has horrifically yet again expressed itself this year in the killing of George Floyd on May 25, of Breonna Taylor on March 13, and of Ahmaud Arbery on February 23 at the hands of police or white vigilantism. Read more... Our department fosters the open understanding of literatures and cultures in English. We promote original work on new questions of history, criticism, theory, and analysis. We invite practices of reading and writing that challenge the ongoing creation of knowledge in our fields. English is among the largest undergraduate concentrations at Brown, and graduates of our Ph.D. program are recognized for their scholarship across the globe. Our nonfiction writing program opens up the useful diversity of styles and modes of writing. New Courses There are a number of exciting new courses in Spring 2022: The Art of the Craft; Anne Carson, Maggie Nelson, Claudia Rankine; Persons and Things in Early Modern England; Medieval Race; You Better Work: Sexuality, Labor, Blackness; Literature and Social Mobility; New and Imagined Worlds in the English Renaissance Upcoming Events There are currently no events to display. View events archive. View Full Calendar Home Faculty Office Hours Undergraduate Graduate Nonfiction Writing Program Courses Contact Us Media Events Print this Page Share this Page Brown University Box 1852 70 Brown St. Providence, RI 02912 Phone 401-863-2393 Fax 401-863-7412 Brown University Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-1000 Maps & Directions / Contact Us © 2022 Brown University Connect: [email protected] Facebook Twitter YouTube iTunes U Google+ LinkedIn SnapChat Resources A to Z Index Career Opportunities Make a Gift People Directory Helpful Links Graduate School Literary Arts Banner Course Listings Course Preview Pages