Skip to main content Service Request Penn Homepage Penn Sustainability Penn Connects Search this site Main menu About Services Standards & Policies Sustainability Capital Process Maps Campus Plan Campus Plan Print Penn Connects 3.0 | Penn Connects 2.0 | Penn Connects (2006) Penn Connects - Our Transformative Campus Plan Visit the Penn Connects homepage at pennconnects.upenn.edu. Over a decade ago, we set out to transform the University of Pennsylvania campus. We called our vision for the future Penn Connects, because we were intent on creating the most vibrant, sustainable and innovative urban university that's deeply connected to our local community with far-reaching global perspectives. Signature projects such as Penn Park, the Singh Center for Nanotechnology and the New College House at Hill Field capture the spirit of new green spaces, reinvented campus gateways, and deepened mixed-use connections to the city. Penn Connects 2.0 then upped our investment in Penn's historic West Philadelphia campus, while boldly creating a new innovation ecosystem exemplified by the exciting new Pennovation Works. With the opening of the Penn Biden Center for Diplomacy and Global Engagement in D.C. and the Penn Wharton China Center in Beijing, Penn’s leadership in global affairs now extends beyond our Philadelphia campus to the capitals of two major nations. Here in our beloved home of Philadelphia, since 2006, Penn has added 6 million square feet of new construction and we have reinvested in 2.7 million square feet of renovated space while also adding 30.25 acres of new open space. These capital achievements represent a combined public and private investment of $3.8 billion. And we are by no means done! Our vision for Penn Connects 3.0 will continue the transformation of our spectacular urban campus, supporting all aspects of Penn's teaching and scholarship, research, and clinical care, while enriching our students' living and learning experiences, strengthening community engagement, and advancing sustainable leadership. View the new publication, Penn Connects 3.0 Realizing the Vision (PDF sections below) Penn Connects 2.0: A Vision for the Future Penn Connects: A Vision for the Future set out an exciting blueprint for the Penn campus. This 2006 plan was a direct response to the Penn Compact and the campus-wide opportunities presented by the acquisition of the former US Post Office Building at 30th and Market Streets, the Post Office Annex, and 14 acres of land along the Schuylkill River. It provided clear recommendations for incorporating these postal acquisitions into the campus, establishing a major physical presence for Penn along the Schuylkill River, and for creating new connections between the campus and Center City. Since 2006, Penn has completed nearly all of the projects set out as part of the Phase 1 implementation plan, resulting in a far-reaching, positive impact on the campus and community beyond. The renewed vision of Penn Connects 2.0 builds upon the accomplishments of Phase 1 and the acquisition of a 23-acre former industrial parcel located at 3401 Grays Ferry Avenue, just south of campus along the Schuylkill River, now known as Pennovation Works. Penn Connects 2.0 enhances and reinforces the planning and design vision for the campus in response to emerging sustainability goals. View a video of achievements. Penn Connects (2006) Penn Connects was an inspiring and achievable vision for the future of the entire campus and, in particular, the new and existing land in the east. It set forth a vision rooted in the tradition and history of the campus. A vision that extends and enhances the successes of previous planning and design initiatives. A vision that has transformed the campus, such as the creation of Locust and Woodland Walks and Blanche Levy Park. The Plan recommended creating civic and open space; identifying land use and development zones; and improving physical connections for pedestrians, automobiles, and bicycles. View the complete plan. (PDF) Penn Connects 3.0 Plan PDFs below: PC3.0 Introduction (PDF) PC3.0 Teaching & Scholarship (PDF) PC3.0 Research & Clinical Care (PDF) PC3.0 Living & Learning (PDF) PC3.0 Campus & Community (PDF) PC3.0 Past & Future Investment (PDF) PC3.0 Sustainability (PDF) PC3.0 Circulation (PDF) PC3.0 Gateways (PDF) PC1.0 Accomplishments (PDF) PC2.0 Accomplishments (PDF) PC3.0 Accomplishments (PDF) Phase 4: Opportunities (PDF) 2017-2040 Map (PDF) About Mission Organizational Chart Departments Campus History Campus Plan News Divisional Overview Vendor Information Directions to FRES Info for: Penn Community Facilities & Real Estate Services 3101 Walnut St Philadelphia, Pa 19104 Emergency/Vehicular Address: 3160 Chestnut Street (proceed to the glass Pavilion at end of the parking lot) © 2022 University of Pennsylvania Report accessibility issues and get help » Webmaster Contact » Service Request Penn Homepage Penn Sustainability Penn Connects About Mission Organizational Chart Departments Campus History Campus Plan News Divisional Overview Vendor Information Directions to FRES Services Maintenance and Renovation Campus and Building Plans Landscape Planned Events Real Estate Signage Moving Services Standards & Policies Standards Policies Safety Procedures Sustainability Energy Management Built Environment Waste Management and Recycling Collaborative Efforts Capital Process Initiate a Project Capital Planning Facilities Renewal Maps and Locations Building Locations Penn Connects Public Art Bike Racks Discover Penn Public Parking Printing the Campus Map PennAccess Location List Contacts Penn Community Penn Homepage