Skip to main content Skip to main content Prospective Students Current Students Alumni More Faculty/Staff News Media Parents Skip to main content Apply Apply Give Give Follow Us Follow Us Twitter Follow Us Facebook Follow Us Instagram Follow Us LinkedIn Follow Us YouTube Follow Us Social Stream Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. Navigate Search Skip to main content Maguire Center Events Events 21st Annual Bonhoeffer Lectures in Public Ethics: Everyday Ethics for Exceptional Times J. Erik Jonsson Ethics Award Delta Gamma Lectureship in Values and Ethics Ethics & Compliance Certificate Public Scholar Lecture Conference of the Professions Past Events Student Engagement Student Engagement The Ethics Essay Prize Public Service Fellowships Teaching and Research Teaching and Research Teaching Fellowship Public Scholars Faculty Incentive Grant Program Resources Resources COVID-19 SMU Ethics Toolbox Papers Sound Ethics Research Newsletter Newsroom Newsroom From the Director's Desk Ethics Blog About Us About Us Leadership Cary M. Maguire Ethics Center Advisory Board Faculty Advisory Committee Contact Give ☰ Cary M. Maguire Center for Ethics and Public Responsibility Office of the Provost Cary M. Maguire Center for Ethics and Public Responsibility Student Engagement Student Engagement The Maguire Center helps students connect their intellectual, spiritual, and leadership capacities for service to the world around them; provides resources for them to accomplish "hands on" projects aimed at increasing student advocacy leadership, ethical reflection, and service skills; and emphasizes ethical leadership and day-to-day decision making. The Center seeks to challenge and encourage the development of ethical discernment, imagination, and action among students. How can you get involved with the Ethics Center? You don't have to be a student staff member to have an impact. Check out our upcoming events page and our Public Service Fellowship page. If you'd like to volunteer for one of our events, please contact us at maguire_ethics@smu.edu. Ethics Essay Prize Open to all undergraduate and graduate students enrolled at SMU. READ MORE Public Service Fellowships Summer fellowships available for SMU students interested in public service or ethics research. READ MORE Student Engagement Ethics Essay Prize Public Service Fellowships Apply Visit School Cox School of Business Dedman College of Humanities and Sciences Dedman School of Law Lyle School of Engineering Meadows School of the Arts Moody School of Graduate and Advanced Studies Perkins School of Theology Simmons School of Education and Human Development Explore SMU Magazine Academic Calendar Events Calendar Guildhall Continuing and Professional Education Athletics Employment at SMU Campus Reporting a Bias Incident Report Sexual Misconduct Emergency Preparedness Student Life George W. Bush Presidential Center SMU Libraries Meadows Museum Tate Lecture Series Contact Us Maps and Directions Legal Disclosures © Southern Methodist University, PO Box 750100, Dallas, TX 75275 twitter facebook instagram linkedin youtube share