Skip to site alert. Skip to content College of Dental Medicine Students Alumni Faculty Giving Contact Us Search About Us About Us Our Mission History Leadership and Administration Board of Advisors Global Dean's Council News Diversity Community Outreach Global Initiatives Support the College of Dental Medicine Events Calendar Contact Us Columbia Visiting Professorship Program CDM Publications Education Education DDS Program Advanced Standing Program for Foreign Trained Dentists Postdoctoral and Residency Programs Tuition, Fees and Financial Aid Global Programs Visits & Externships Continuing Education Academic Sections/Divisions Academic Calendars Research Research Research Areas Research Labs Research Centers Research Faculty Clinical Trials Research Resources Student Research First International Symposium of Fusobacteria Patient Care Patient Care ColumbiaDoctors Dentistry Teaching Clinics Patient Resources COVID-19 Safety ColumbiaDoctors Dentistry Our Doctors Our Services Our Locations Make an Appointment Make an Appointment Choose between ColumbiaDoctors Dentistry and our affordable Dental Clinics. Para Español, haga clic aquí. Explore Your Options Events News You are here Home > About Us > Community Outreach Our Mission History Leadership and Administration Board of Advisors Global Dean's Council News Diversity Community Outreach Community DentCare Program Global Initiatives Support the College of Dental Medicine Events Calendar Contact Us Columbia Visiting Professorship Program CDM Publications Community Outreach The College of Dental Medicine is deeply committed to improving the oral health of its community and the world at large. Locally, we are the major provider of much-needed oral health care services to the underserved populations of Harlem, Inwood, and Washington Heights through our clinics and a variety of free services, programs which all provide key learning opportunities for our students. Our students are encouraged to expand their experience at the College of Dental Medicine by making service a part of their education. They volunteer in the student-run free clinic, organize health education events in schools, and participate enthusiastically in annual community events like Give Kids A Smile Day. Community DentCare Network The Community DentCare Network is a series of partnerships and collaborations with neighborhood schools and community health clinics, designed to provide patient-centered dental services to northern Manhattan’s low-income, underserved, and uninsured residents. The network includes six school-based clinics and a Mobile Dental Center linked to five community-based practices. The program has logged more than 150,000 patient care visits in its nearly 20-year history. Eldersmile Program The Eldersmile Program offers prevention, education, screening and treatment services for seniors in northern Manhattan through mobile van visits to senior centers. Faculty and students work together to provide care, which includes diabetes and hypertension screening for this high-risk population. Give Kids a Smile Day Give Kids A Smile Day is an American Dental Association (ADA) sponsored national event that promotes oral health awareness and treatment to children in underserved areas of the country. CHHMP Dental Also known as the Dr. Michael Yuan Student Run Dental Free Clinic, CHHMP Dental is a student-run free clinic that partners with CHHMP Medical on the first and third Tuesdays of every month to provide free dental care to the homeless, uninsured, and undocumented people of Harlem. The clinic gives students the opportunity to work together to address the challenges of providing dental care to an underserved patient population. Columbia University Irving Medical Center NewYork-Presbyterian ColumbiaDoctors About Us Education Research Student Life Alumni Faculty Contact Us Intranet Columbia University College of Dental Medicine 630 West 168th Street New York, NY 10032 United States Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Back to top