Skip to main content Skip to primary site menu Google Tag Manager Search form Search Brown University A-Z Index People Directory Students Alumni Careers News Events Search Give Explore Brown University's School of Public Health Admissions Academics Research Faculty About Diversity Admissions Academics Research Faculty About Diversity A-Z Index People Directory Students Alumni Careers News Events Center for Alcohol and Addiction Studies Home About People Postdoctoral Training Didactics Diversity People Application Benefits/Stipend Research Find a Study News Site Navigation Home About Our History Our Mission People Core Faculty Affiliated Faculty Adjunct Faculty Research Staff Administrative Staff Postdoctoral Training Didactics Diversity People Core Faculty Trainers Affiliated Trainers Current Fellows Alumni - 2016 to present Alumni - 1989 - 2015 Application Benefits/Stipend Research Alcohol HIV/AIDS Prevention Health Disparities/Health Equity Marijuana & Other Drug Use Nicotine Find a Study Alcohol research studies HIV research studies Marijuana research studies Tobacco research studies Studies for adults Studies for teens News Application Thank you for your interest in the CAAS Postdoctoral Training Program. The application process is now closed for the Academic Year 2022-23. Please check back in early summer for information about deadlines for the 2023-24 Academic Year. Application Information There are two deadlines for submission: 1) Early decision deadline – all materials must be in early December (date TBD). This application deadline is for those applicants whose first choice is Brown. By applying, they commit to attend the program if accepted. Applicants not accepted at the early decision deadline will be reviewed again for the regular application deadline unless they chose to withdraw their application. 2) Regular decision deadline – all materials must be received by early January (date TBD). A few items of note as you begin the process of completing the application. Your application package* should include the following: The Application Form A current curriculum vitae. A Statement of Research Interests of the work planned for the appointment period. This proposal should state particular areas of interest and expertise, as well as an example of your approach to research problems. It should be no longer than 3-4 pages, double-spaced. Two self-selected writings representative of the applicant's highest quality work. Official graduate school transcripts for those who have been in school within the past five years. Three letters of reference should be sent directly to the Training Program Coordinator, [email protected]) by email* All applications must be submitted by email to the Training Program Coordinator Evaluation, Acceptance and Notification of Admissions Decisions An Admissions Committee, appointed by the Postdoctoral Training Director, reviews all completed applications. The Admissions Committee is comprised of the training co-directors and other selected members of the Training Program. The Admissions Committee reviews applications and selects successful applicants on the basis of: (1) their potential to contribute to the field of alcohol and/or other drug abuse treatment and intervention research, and (2) the degree to which the Brown training program is likely to assist the successful applicant in developing his/her full potential to contribute to the field. All applicants will be notified in writing of the decision of the Admissions Committee in a timely manner. Brown University is an Equal Opportunity/Affirmative Action Employer and actively solicits applications from women and minorities. Period of Appointment Appointments are made for one-year periods. However, it is expected that training periods will be for at least two years and may be continued into a third year. NIH allows a maximum of three years of training at the post-doctoral level All trainees meet individually with the Training Director at least three times each year. In those meetings, concerns expressed by the Training Committee, if any, will be discussed. Barring any serious issues, all trainees will continue for a second year of training. Citizenship A Fellow must be a citizen or a non-citizen national of the United States or have been lawfully admitted for permanent residence at the time of appointment. To assure that this will not be a problem, we expect that Fellows already meet eligibility requirements at the time their applications are submitted. A non-citizen national is a person who although not a citizen of the United States, owes permanent allegiance to the U.S. They are generally persons born in lands which are not States, but are under U.S. sovereignty, jurisdiction, or administration, for example American Samoa. An individual lawfully admitted for permanent residence must submit a notarized statement upon activation of the award, indicating possession of the alien registration receipt card (I-151 or I-551). Individuals on temporary or student visas are not eligible for support from the NRSA. Payback Provisions Trainees in the first twelve months of postdoctoral NRSA support will incur one month of obligation for each month of support. Trainees in the 13th and subsequent months of NRSA support will incur no further obligation. Furthermore, each month of training in the second year constitutes a month of payback. Consequently, completion of two years of training fulfills the one-year payback requirement and no other service is required. (If a Fellow were to leave at the end of the first year of training he/she would have incurred one year of training payback requirement. This has ordinarily been satisfied by teaching or research activities that add up to a year's subsequent employment). Download Payback Agreement (PDF) Postdoctoral Training Didactics Diversity People Application Benefits/Stipend Center for Alcohol and Addiction Studies Center for Alcohol and Addiction Studies Brown University Box G-S121-5 121 South Main Street Providence, RI 02912 Phone: 401-863-6600 Fax: 401-863-6697 Email [email protected] Twitter Twitter Facebook Facebook Brown University Giving to Brown 121 South Main Street, Providence, Rhode Island 02903, USA 401-863-3375 Contact Us Newsletter Maps Directions Career Opportunities Campus Safety Accessibility Brown Social Media © 2022 Brown University | Back to top