Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Division of Mission & Ministry Mission & Ministry Information For: Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff Search BC.edu Links CSF Menu Main Nav Center for Student Formation Contact Back Back Close About Overview Resources Undergraduate Programs Overview Compass Mentoring Program Stride Ascend Ascend Lead Profiles AHANA Summit Freshmen League Halftime Leadership Positions Collaborations Contact Close Directory A to Z Listing Search Mission & Ministry Search BC.edu Find pages or people Search Close Close Apply Visit Give Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close Halftime Home Undergraduate Programs Halftime Undergraduate Programs Compass Mentoring Program Stride Ascend AHANA Summit Freshmen League Halftime Living a Life of Meaning and Purpose Halftime is an invitation to step back from your busy life to think about how your major and future career fit in with who you really are. It is an opportunity to have real conversations with students, faculty, and staff about finding and pursuing passions. Halftime is a free Friday-Sunday overnight experience that takes place at the Connors Center in Dover, MA and is open to all sophomores, juniors, and seniors. 2021 - 2022 Halftime Dates: Fall 2021 Halftime Halftime 103: November 12 - November 14 Spring 2022 Halftimes Halftime 104: February 18 - February 20 Halftime 105: March 25 - March 27 Applications to lead Halftime in the 2021 - 2022 academic year are now being accepted on a rolling basis. Learning Outcomes After participating in Halftime, students will be able to: 1. Identify one way Halftime has impacted their own vocational discernment process. 2. Define “conversation partner” and actively look for or pursue a conversation partner at BC. 3. Identify one reflective habit that they want to integrate into their lives. Apply Please call 617-552-1577 or email halftime@bc.edu with any questions. Asking Life's Big Questions Why go on Halftime? Participants: Build connections with faculty and staff who can serve as resources and conversation partners. Reflect on your own experiences and interests, and the direction they might lead you. Spend a beautiful weekend away at the Connors Center in Dover, MA. Back To Top Back To Top Center for Student Formation 90 College Road Chestnut Hill, MA 02467 617-552-6140 About Undergraduate Programs Leadership Positions Collaborations Division of Mission & Ministry Mission and Ministry Campus Ministry Center for Ignatian Spirituality Center for Student Formation First Year Experience Intersections Montserrat Pastoral Support The Volunteer and Service Learning Center University of Mission and Ministry Service Center Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College