Skip to main content Skip to primary site menu Skip to primary site search Visual Art Show/Hide About People Academics Awards + Scholarships Course Descriptions Courses Listings Concentration Requirements Exhibitions + Guidelines Honors Independent Study Study Abroad News + Events Resources FAQs Academics Undergraduate Program Students in the Department of Visual Art at Brown enjoy well-equipped facilities, a knowledgeable faculty, and dedicated staff. When asked what they like the best about the Department of Visual Art, Concentrators mention instructors, facilities, and equipment, but at the top of their list is what they express as "freedom." By this, they mean not only 24-hour building access, but opportunities to do interdisciplinary projects and the openness of assignments. "It is what you make of it. You can go as far as you want," says a student in Painting II. Brown does not promote a particular "style." Instead, we encourage and aid students in learning whatever makes effective and challenging work. Assignments are often accompanied by readings selected to generate thought and discussion. Class critique is not done in the classic master/pupil style; instead, students are encouraged to critique themselves and each other. Department Undergraduate Group (DUG) Leaders The DUG program is sponsored by the Dean of the College. Department Undergraduate Students or DUGs are chosen by Visual Art Concentrators and faculty. VA DUGs are chosen each year to help students connect with one another, with faculty, and with alumni. VA DUGs participate in concentration fairs, give guided tours of our facilities to prospective students, organize the annual open studio event, and assist with the Annual Juried Student Exhibition. Visual Art DUGs for 2021-2022 Academic year: Sylvia Atwood '22 Lucid Clairvoyant '23 Jazzmin Cox-Caceres '23 Yolizbeth Lozano '22 Academics Awards + Scholarships Course Descriptions Courses Listings Concentration Requirements Exhibitions + Guidelines Honors Independent Study Study Abroad Explore Brown University Search Brown Show/Hide Learn More About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life Find A to Z Index People Directory Information for Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Top Destinations Global Brown Watson Institute Graduate School Alpert Medical School School of Public Health School of Engineering Visual Art Visual Art Brown University Box 1861 List Art Building 64 College St Providence, RI 02912 Phone: 401-863-2423 Fax: 401-863-1680 Email [email protected] Twitter Twitter Facebook Facebook Instagram Instagram Custom Footer Links A to Z Index Career Opportunities Make a Gift People Directory Giving to Brown Brown University Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-1000 Maps & Directions / Contact Us / Accessibility © 2022 Brown University Connect: [email protected] Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram iTunes U LinkedIn SnapChat