Skip to main content Search Site or Temple University Search this site Search all of Temple Search Keywords Search Research Distinguished Faculty Lectures Climate 2019-2020 Research Support Support CHAT Annual Report Temple University College of Liberal Arts Labs, Centers and Institutes News Events Sites Center for Sustainable Communities Center for Vietnamese Philosophy, Culture and Society Center for the Humanities at Temple Center for the Study of Force and Diplomacy Feinstein Center for American Jewish History Institute for Survey Research Public Policy Lab Temple University Brain Research & Imaging Center / Center for the Humanities at Temple Search Site or Temple University Search this site Search all of Temple Search Keywords Search Center for the Humanities at Temple (CHAT) CHAT fosters innovative research by faculty and graduate students in the humanities and humanistic social sciences. Center for the Humanities at Temple The Center for the Humanities at Temple (CHAT) fosters innovative research by faculty and graduate students in the humanities and humanistic social sciences. Faculty and graduate students in all schools and colleges at Temple are eligible to participate in the center’s programs. Throughout the year, it offers research grants and fellowships, operates an ongoing research seminar, develops two lecture series, and forges intellectual partnerships with other regional and international universities. CHAT works to bridge the disciplinary divide between departments and colleges by promoting broad, humanities-based conversations that connect scholars from multiple scholarly fields. /center-humanities-news Program News We are daring, ambitious, creative thinkers. Simultaneously civic-minded and globally conscious, our students and faculty are engaged in the community and care about our world. Program News https://liberalarts.temple.edu/events/upcoming Program Events From lectures to film screenings to networking opportunities with some of the region's biggest employers, events at the College of Liberal Arts are designed to support your life's work. Learn More Go back to ResearchMore in Center for the Humanities at Temple Research Distinguished Faculty Lectures Climate 2019-2020 Research Support Support CHAT Annual Report Search Site or Temple University Search this site Search all of Temple Search Keywords Search Temple University College of Liberal Arts Center for the Humanities at Temple 025-451, 10th Floor Gladfelter Hall 1115 Polett WalkPhiladelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-9209 chat@temple.edu Center for the Humanities Facebook Center for the Humanities Twitter Visit Temple.edu Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Policies Social Media TUportal TUMail Accessibility Careers at Temple Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved.