Skip to main content Skip to main content Prospective Students Current Students Alumni More Faculty/Staff News Media Parents Skip to main content Apply Apply Give Give Follow Us Follow Us Twitter Follow Us Facebook Follow Us Instagram Follow Us LinkedIn Follow Us YouTube Follow Us Social Stream Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. Navigate Search Skip to main content Office of Engaged Learning Undergraduate Research Undergraduate Research Engaged Learning Fellowship Undergraduate Research Assistantships Summer Research Intensive Presentation and Publication Undergraduate Research Opportunities Events Calendar Big iDeas Big iDeas How to Apply Big iDeas Winners For Current Big iDeas winners CGIU CGIU How to apply to CGIU CGI U Commitment-Makers For current CGIU Incubator@SMU Mentorship Mentorship Mustang Mentors Excellence in Mentoring Events Calendar Resources Resources Event Archive Documents & Forms Links About About Staff Contact Us Make a Gift Make a Gift Giving Day - UG Research Giving Day - Journal ☰ SMU Office of the Provost Office of Engaged Learning The Office Of Engaged Learning Research Entrepreneurship Mentorship The Office of Engaged Learning enhances SMU's undergraduate education with experiential learning opportunities in research and entrepreneurship. Our Office hosts the following programs: the Engaged Learning Fellowship, Undergraduate Research Assistantships, Big iDeas, and Clinton Global Initiative University. We operate the Incubator@SMU, coordinate the Mustang Mentors program, and are a key partner in the Engage Dallas program. Learn More Newsletter Make a Gift Entrepreneur Spotlight Grant Ayers '22, Big iDeas winner, recently founded Local Mycology, a gourmet mushroom farm. Read more Student Spotlight The SMU Pride Project is a research group working to collect queer history at SMU. The newfound group hosted their first event, a Queer State of the University Address, on February 11 2022. Upcoming Read more Previous Next pause play hide show Inspiring, Engaging and Connecting Students with Experiential Learning Opportunities Engaged Learning Fellowship Summer Research Intensive Clinton Global Initiative University Big iDeas Incubator@SMU What's New OEL Newsletter Read the May 2022 newsletter! Our quarterly newsletter provides updates on our numerous programs, and spotlights a few of the many amazing people in our orbit. Read it New Entrepreneurship Fellows Program SMU's Incubator is premiering an exciting new program for their three-year-old organization – the inaugural Entrepreneurship Fellows Program (EFP). The EFP is designed for early-stage entrepreneurs looking to develop their ideas and take them to market. Fellows within the program will receive education, mentorship, and funding. The program's culmination is the SMU Incubator Pitch Competition, where Fellows will pitch their venture to a series of judges for seed funds up to $5,000. Read More Mark Your Calendar Summer Research Intensive Date: June 1, 2022 SMU Faculty members may apply for match-funding for up to two Undergraduate Research Assistants this summer. The students are able to work up to 29 hours per week, and will attend training workshops in research methods and professional development. In the 2021 pilot, 42 students supported the work of 27 faculty members. By the end of summer, their work culminated in 8 grant proposals, 7 abstract submissions, and 2 peer-reviewed papers—as well as substantial progress toward proposals and publications. Students also create brief oral presentations and optional reports. Faculty application deadline is March 21, 2022. Learn More Make an Impact Tyne Dickson '22—Engaged Learning Fellow and Big iDeas Business Plan winner—created Equity Ahead, an app that helps people see, plan, and post protests and public demonstrations in their area. Equity Ahead also provides a social media platform for people to discuss movements and for organizers to put out resources and information. Read More CONTACT US Clements Hall, G01, G03 3100 Dyer Street Dallas, Texas 75205 USA Phone Number: 214-768-3223 Engaged Learning: Big iDeas: Incubator@SMU: Apply Visit School Cox School of Business Dedman College of Humanities and Sciences Dedman School of Law Lyle School of Engineering Meadows School of the Arts Moody School of Graduate and Advanced Studies Perkins School of Theology Simmons School of Education and Human Development Explore SMU Magazine Academic Calendar Events Calendar Guildhall Continuing and Professional Education Athletics Employment at SMU Campus Reporting a Bias Incident Report Sexual Misconduct Emergency Preparedness Student Life George W. Bush Presidential Center SMU Libraries Meadows Museum Tate Lecture Series Contact Us Maps and Directions Legal Disclosures © Southern Methodist University, PO Box 750100, Dallas, TX 75275 twitter facebook instagram linkedin youtube share