Skip to main content Temple University Explore Temple’s Schools and Colleges Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Support Temple Temple University Search Site Search Full Menu Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees President History & Traditions Temple Health News & Media Offices Public Information Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Development Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Libraries Human Resource Management Major You are here Home Academics Degrees and Programs Human Resource Management Major Apply Visit Request More Info Human Resource Management Major Admissions Careers, Internships & Opportunities Required Courses Research & Facilities Scholarships & Financial Aid Bachelor of Business Administration in Human Resource Management Develop the skills to recruit and support an organization’s most valuable asset—its employees—with the Bachelor of Business Administration in Human Resource Management in the Fox School of Business. Through this undergraduate program, offered on campus or online, you will learn to foster synergies between the human and business sides of an organization. Enhance productivity within high-performing companies by developing competency around several areas of human resource policy and operations, including compensation and benefits, labor relations, performance appraisal, recruitment and retention, and training and development. The Human Resource Management BBA coursework provides students with vital interpersonal skills for managing workplace personnel and resolving disputes. Refine your presentation and communication skills; gain an understanding of collective bargaining procedures; and acquire the tools to increase your company’s reputation, productivity and sustainable profits. Apart from the program’s curriculum, human resource-focused student groups and professional development opportunities prepare you for success after graduation. Learn more about opportunities to prepare for your career. Path to the SHRM Certified Professional Exam Earning a Human Resource Management BBA prepares you to become credentialed as a Society for Human Resource Management (SHRM) Certified Professional. SHRM is a global organization focused on enhancing the success of HR professionals—and the SHRM Certified Professional exam is a path to that success. Accredited by the Buros Center for Testing, this credential gives you a competitive boost in the industry, demonstrating your comprehensive knowledge for current or prospective employers. Classes & Curriculum Concepts covered in the 124-credit Human Resource Management BBA program include Compensation Management; Human Resource Management and Public Policy; and Organizational Staffing and Career Management. See a full list of Human Resource Management BBA courses. Related Graduate Degrees Human Resources Management Concentration MBA Human Resource Management MS Related Graduate Certificates Human Resource Management Distinguished Faculty A diverse faculty brings extensive real-world knowledge to the Human Resource Management BBA program, with some professors holding more than 35 years of professional experience in human resource management and consulting. Professors have held positions at such nationally and internationally recognized organizations as ARAMARK Corporation, Citicorp, AstraZeneca Pharmaceuticals, Genesis Healthcare, Gravitas and the Vanguard Group. Collectively, our faculty experts have been interviewed by numerous major media outlets, including the Wall Street Journal, the New York Times, the Chicago Tribune, the BBC, and Financial Times. Accelerated 3-year BBA Motivated students can accelerate their BBA program to finish in three years. To find out more about completing your degree on an accelerated timeline, contact your advisor. Online BBA Program The Bachelor of Business Administration in Human Resource Management is available as an Online BBA degree program designed for new and continuing students. Learn more about the online program. Tuition & Fees In keeping with Temple’s commitment to access and affordability, the Bachelor of Business Administration offers a competitive level of tuition with multiple opportunities for financial support. Tuition rates are set annually by the university and are affected by multiple factors, including program degree level (undergraduate or graduate), course load (full- or part-time), in-state or out-of-state residency, and more. Learn more about our tuition and fees. These tuition costs apply to the 2021–2022 academic year. Pennsylvania resident: $21,144.00 per year Out-of-state: $38,544.00 per year Our Academic Advisors The Center for Undergraduate Advising in the Fox School of Business is dedicated to helping students navigate their academics and make informed decisions about their career paths. See a full list of undergraduate academic advisors. Peer Advising The Center for Undergraduate Advising also offers peer advising at the Main Campus location. Undergraduate peer advisors offer the perspective of an upper-level student and assist by sharing their knowledge and personal tips for academic success. Program Contact For more information about your degree program, contact the faculty below. Kate Markowitz is the director of enrollment management for undergraduate students. Phone: 215-204-4892 Email: kmrick@temple.edu Tom Carney is the assistant director of undergraduate enrollment. Phone: 215-204-5424 Email: tom.carney@temple.edu Claudia Bereshnyi is the assistant director of transfer, veteran and online BBA recruitment and the contact for both incoming transfer students and those interested in an online BBA. Phone: 215-204-4100 Email: claudia@temple.edu Drew Hashimura is the coordinator of enrollment management. Phone: 215-204-2070 Email: ahashimura@temple.edu Student Clubs & Organizations Joining student clubs and organizations is a great way to meet like-minded students; connect with local, national and international businesses; and build the skills you’ll need in your professional career. Enhance your academic experience by participating in a club related to your major or interests. The following clubs and organizations are available to human resource management students in the Fox School of Business. Society for Human Resource Management members network with professionals and discuss current issues. The Society emphasizes professional development and networking opportunities. Explore the full list of Fox School of Business student clubs and organizations. Global Immersions Broaden your understanding of global economies and business practices by taking advantage of the various study abroad options and opportunities for learning beyond Temple’s Main Campus in Philadelphia through Global Immersion Programs. Temple administers several programs around the world, including campus sites in Rome, Japan and Spain, faculty-led summer programs and exchange programs in Europe and Asia. Interested students may also participate in approved programs organized by study abroad organizations or other U.S. universities, or apply directly to an accredited institution overseas. Temple’s Education Abroad office provides information on approved programs, and advisors can work with you to determine which program might provide the best fit. Learn more about study away options. Temple Exchange Programs Through reciprocal exchange agreements with the following universities, Temple students can exchange places with students for a semester or academic year. Some programs require sufficient proficiency in the host country language to participate. China: Hong Kong Baptist University Korea: Ewha Womans University, Yonsei University, Sogang University Taiwan: National Taiwan University Learn more about Temple exchange programs (PDF). Accreditation The Fox School of Business is accredited by the Association to Advance Collegiate Schools of Business (AACSB). The school has maintained AACSB accreditation since 1934. BU-HRM-BBA Additional Program Information School/College Site View Program Details Go back to AcademicsMore in Human Resource Management Major Admissions Careers, Internships & Opportunities Required Courses Research & Facilities Scholarships & Financial Aid Apply Visit Request More Info Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Calendar Policies Social Media TUportal TUmail Accessibility Careers at Temple Safety & Emergency Information Ethics & Compliance Privacy Statement Professional Licensure Disclosures Follow Temple University Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community. Apply Visit Request More Info