Skip to main content Temple University Explore Temple’s Schools and Colleges Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Support Temple Temple University Search Site Search Full Menu Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees President History & Traditions Temple Health News & Media Offices Public Information Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Development Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Libraries Business Administration PhD You are here Home Academics Degrees and Programs Business Administration PhD Apply Events Request More Info Business Administration PhD Admissions Careers, Internships & Opportunities Curriculum Research & Facilities Scholarships & Financial Aid Doctor of Philosophy in Business Administration The Doctor of Philosophy in Business Administration in Temple University’s Fox School of Business prepares doctoral students to advance their fields through innovative research and teaching. This rigorous full-time program trains students to tackle some of the most complex problems facing the contemporary business world. This heavily research-focused program is designed for advanced scholars who want to build their research portfolios; expand their ideas using data-driven theories and approaches; and position themselves to become business educators. The comprehensive curriculum of the Business Administration PhD, along with its multiple concentrations, promote interdisciplinary study. PhD faculty partner with students to pursue cutting-edge research that crosses disciplinary boundaries. Small class sizes allow you to work in a close-knit collaborative environment with other students as well as the school’s outstanding research faculty. Fox’s unique culture of mentorship provides students with both academic support and personalized professional guidance. Fox’s relationship with large corporations and local small businesses will also allow you to learn from and network with leading industry experts. Advanced research centers and institutes provide the resources, current data and industry connections to support doctoral student success. Outside the classroom, you will have ample opportunity to present your research at regional, national and international conferences. Learn more about research for PhD student at Fox. Request Information Learn more about the Business Administration PhD program. Apply Now Ready to apply? Submit your graduate application. Request Information Apply Faculty Highlights Faculty See profiles of Business Administration PhD faculty members. Faculty Highlights A link to Business Administration PhD faculty profiles. Choosing Between the PhD and DBA The Business Administration PhD differs from Fox’s Executive Doctorate in Business Administration (DBA) program in several key ways. The PhD program is targeted toward those interested in pursuing research- and scholarship-focused careers in academia. PhD students focus on broad, theoretical issues and questions relating to business. The DBA is an executive program designed for working professionals with extensive managerial experience—usually 10 to 15 years—who are looking to transform their business. DBA students investigate applied research problems, and their work usually addresses issues within their current professional organization. Learn more about the Executive DBA program at Fox. Concentrations The Fox PhD in Business Administration offers students the opportunity to focus on one of the following eleven concentrations. Accounting Pursue advanced research and scholarship opportunities with a PhD concentration in Accounting. Earn faculty appointments in Accounting and related departments at top-tier research universities. View Concentration Details Finance Gain expertise in areas of asset pricing, banking and corporate finance with the PhD in Finance. Co-author articles and research studies with faculty mentors while preparing for an academic career at a major research university. View Concentration Details Human Resource Management and Organizational Behavior Explore a range of complex human resource and organizational issues—from leadership tactics and workplace anger to organizational justice staffing. Collaborate with faculty mentors on joint research and publications. View Concentration Details Interdisciplinary Study Develop in-depth knowledge spanning multiple functional areas of business. Faculty members specialize in accounting, finance, international business, information systems, marketing, neuroscience, statistics, and strategic management. Stay ahead of the competition in today’s rapidly evolving technological environment by adopting a multidisciplinary approach to problem solving. View Concentration Details International Business Administration Understand the wide-ranging challenges for businesses operating on a global scale. Combined with a functional business minor, the PhD concentration in International Business emphasizes an interdisciplinary approach to research within national and international universities. View Concentration Details Management Information Systems Advance your knowledge of the design, use, and effects of information technology with the PhD concentration in Management Information Systems. Prepare to take on high-impact research projects at leading academic institutions. View Concentration Details Marketing Make use of cross-disciplinary methods from economics, neuroscience, psychology and sociology to produce innovative marketing research. A PhD concentration in Marketing prepares you to pursue highly competitive research positions at top universities. View Concentration Details Operations and Supply Chain Management Develop your theoretical and empirical expertise in the tenets of operations and supply chain services. Explore a wide range of topical issues such as how to maximize customer value, oversee daily operations and long-term strategic plans, and gain a competitive advantage in the marketplace. The research-based curriculum is specifically tailored to prepare students for academic careers in operations-related departments and major research universities. View Concentration Details Risk Management and Insurance Develop and employ research methodologies around economics and finance. Conduct studies on an array of topics central to financial risk and insurance, while preparing for positions at leading research institutions. View Concentration Details Strategic Management Build advanced knowledge of business management, entrepreneurship, innovation and strategy. Conduct comprehensive research on topics ranging from inter-organizational relationships to technological innovations. Prepare to continue your research fulltime at a major university. View Concentration Details Tourism and Sport Concentrate your work and research on three primary areas: economics and asset management, marketing and social engagement, and strategic management and experience design. Graduates advance to faculty positions at universities offering degrees in hospitality, recreation, sport and tourism. View Concentration Details Classes & Curriculum Required courses will vary depending on your chosen concentration, but listed below is a selection of courses available to students pursuing a PhD in Business Administration. Entrepreneurial Thinking and Innovation Information Technology Perspectives Law and Ethics in Business Managing People and Organizations Managing Risk Socioeconomic Context of Business In addition to traditional courses, students will also complete immersive field experience credits, providing real-world context to inform their research. Learn more about Business Administration PhD courses. Related Graduate Degrees Actuarial Science MS Business Administration MBA Decision Neuroscience PhD Financial Analysis and Quantitative Risk Management MS Human Resource Management MS Marketing MS Statistics MS Statistics PhD Related Graduate Certificates Business Analytics Entrepreneurship and Technology Commercialization Healthcare Innovation Management Tuition & Fees In keeping with Temple’s commitment to access and affordability, this Doctor of Philosophy offers a competitive level of tuition with multiple opportunities for financial support. Tuition rates are set annually by the university and are affected by multiple factors, including program degree level (undergraduate or graduate), course load (full- or part-time), in-state or out-of-state residency, and more. These tuition costs apply to the 2021–2022 academic year. Pennsylvania resident: $920.00 per credit Out-of-state: $1262.00 per credit Learn more about our tuition and fees. Our Advisors The Fox School of Business formally encourages a culture of mentoring in which faculty and students collaborate on joint research and projects. Both formal and informal, this mentoring provides support for PhD students as they adapt to the rigors of academic life and successful scholarship. Discover advisors within the Business Administration PhD program. Program Contact Cailin DiGiacomo is the admissions coordinator for doctoral programs. Phone: 215-204-0314 Email: c.digiacomo@temple.edu Lisa Fitch is the senior associate director for doctoral programs. Phone: 215-204-7677 Email: foxphdoffice@temple.edu Student Clubs & Organizations Joining student clubs and organizations is a great way to meet like-minded students; connect with local, national and international businesses; and enhance the skills you use in your professional career. Fox offers more than 30 student professional organizations. Supplement your academic experience by participating in a club related to your major or interests. The following clubs and organizations are available to students in Fox. The Fox Graduate Student Association connects students and alumni with the greater Fox community, providing professional development, networking and volunteer opportunities for graduate students. The mission of Net Impact is to grow and strengthen a network of leaders who use the power of business to make a positive economic, environmental and social impact. It brings together students seeking to network and to use the power of business to create a better world. The International Business Association brings together students from all over the world to learn about foreign business and the global economy, and offers an array of professional development opportunities. Fox Professional Speakers invites students to practice their communication, presentation and leadership skills in a supportive and positive environment. Those with dreams of starting their own business may be interested in the Entrepreneurial Students Association, which aims to support, inspire and encourage students to pursue their entrepreneurial goals. The association is open to students of all majors. See a full list of student clubs and organizations. Global Immersions Fox graduate students can participate in Global Immersions. They are destination-focused learning experiences that allow graduate students to engage with a different country's culture, language and business practices. Global Immersions expose students to comparative business environments, global business in emerging markets, global companies working to solve crucial problems, intensive and diverse learning experiences, and international innovation and entrepreneurship. Previous destinations include China, India, Latin America and South Africa. Recent participating companies include Black and Decker, BMW, Deloitte, Microsoft and SanDisk. Learn more about Global Immersion Programs. Temple also offers interested students a variety of options for pursuing internship, teaching and volunteer opportunities abroad through the Center for International Business and Research. Learn more about your options for studying or working abroad. Accreditation The Fox School of Business is accredited by the Association to Advance Collegiate Schools of Business (AACSB). The school has maintained AACSB accreditation since 1934. BU-BA-PHD Additional Program Information School/College Site Go back to AcademicsMore in Business Administration PhD Admissions Careers, Internships & Opportunities Curriculum Research & Facilities Scholarships & Financial Aid Apply Events Request More Info Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Calendar Policies Social Media TUportal TUmail Accessibility Careers at Temple Safety & Emergency Information Ethics & Compliance Privacy Statement Professional Licensure Disclosures Follow Temple University Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community. Apply Events Request More Info