Skip to main content Iowa State University Office of Admissions Menu Toggle Search Visit Apply My Account Main navigation Admissions Admissions Freshman Admissions Transfer Admissions International Admissions Graduate Admissions Next Steps / Timeline Financial Aid Request info Contact Us Related Links Nontraditional Nondegree Veterinary Medicine Military Why ISU Academics Academics Academic Programs Colleges Transfer Credit Credit by Exam Orientation Honors Program Learning Communities Apply Visit Related Links Course Equivalency Guides Transfer Plans TRANSIT Supplementary Course List Admissions Partnership Program Destination Iowa State Cost + Aid Campus Living Campus Living Housing ISU Dining Diversity and Inclusion International Students and Scholars Clubs and Organizations Recreation Services Student Health Athletics Apply Visit Related Links Student Leaders Sorority and Fraternity Entertainment Traditions Distinguished Alumni Why ISU Visit Application Orientation Orientation Registration Information Freshman Orientation Before Orientation After Orientation Lodging Transfer Orientation Before Orientation After Orientation Schedule of Events Publications and Presentations Iowa State University Guides Directions and Parking Evaluate Your Orientation International Orientation Meet the Cyclone Aides Frequently Asked Questions Destination Iowa State Contact Us Your Orientation 2022 Adventure Welcome to our newest Cyclones! If you are a new student who will begin classes in Summer or Fall 2022, you will have the opportunity to choose between OnCyte Orientation or online orientation. Once you have accepted your offer of admission, information will be emailed to you within a couple days outlining your next steps for orientation. Students, don’t forget to plan to attend Destination Iowa State, held Thursday through Sunday before classes start. This event is a great way to kick-start your adventure as a Cyclone. If you are a new student who will begin classes in Spring 2023, we are looking forward to sharing orientation registration details with you in October. Go Cyclones! Frequently Asked Questions Starting your adventure? We will map it out. For those who have accepted your offer of admission and plan on starting your adventure in an upcoming term, orientation is designed to welcome you to campus and help you get familiar with Iowa State! You will be able to register for your first semester classes, get to know Iowa State and important policies and procedures. It is also a great way to ease yourself into university life. Orientation Your Way Orientation is your hub of information to succeed as a Cyclone, and it is required of all new students. But you decide which orientation works best for you! OnCyte Orientation This event allows you to experience campus in person and get to know Ames. During OnCyte Orientation, you will be able to: Take tours and get to know your way around Connect with other Cyclones in person Attend helpful sessions on campus resources, housing and dining, and financial aid Get your ISUCard Learn about your academic college, major and how to succeed academically Meet with an advisor face-to-face to plan your class schedule Freshmen will choose a 1.5 day orientation session held in the month of June. Transfer students will choose a 1-day orientation session held in April, May, or July. Your academic major will determine options available to you. Guests are welcome to attend with you! Once you register for OnCyte Orientation, you will receive an email with helpful information and steps to complete before orientation. Online Orientation Much of what is shared during OnCyte Orientation is available via the online orientation website. It will help you: Learn about Iowa State’s campus, academics, and clubs Discover essential resources to succeed Learn about living and dining on campus Prepare for academic advising and meeting virtually with an academic advisor Online orientation opens April 4 for transfer students. The steps to schedule your advising appointment are included in online orientation. Online orientation opens May 23 for freshmen. Plan to complete online orientation at least a week before you meet with your advisor for class registration. Expect to receive an email from your academic college about 5 days before your pre-selected advising slot with details on how to meet with your academic advisor. You will receive an email with instructions for how to login and complete online orientation once online orientation opens. Steps to complete your orientation adventure Once you receive your orientation invitation, select which style of orientation is best for you. Register for either an OnCyte Orientation session or online orientation. If you are a freshman choosing online orientation, you will also choose a date for your virtual academic advising appointment. Take the ALEKS math placement assessment at least two weeks prior to your academic advising appointment. Attend OnCyte Orientation or complete required online orientation. Sign up for Destination Iowa State, a student-only kickoff experience held the Thursday through Sunday before classes begin! Iowa State University Office of Admissions Contact Office of Admissions Enrollment Services Center Ames, IA 50011 Call or text: 515-294-5836 Soults Family Visitors Center 2229 Lincoln Way Ames, IA 50014 Quick Links New Student Programs Counselor Directory Chat with students and staff Request Information Copyright © 1995- Iowa State University of Science and Technology All rights reserved. Non-discrimination Policy Privacy Policy Digital Access & Accessibility Analytics Disclaimer Loading...