Skip to main content MyUW Calendar Directories Libraries UW Medicine Maps UW News Helpful Links Computing/IT ISC/Workday Husky Card UW Bothell UW Tacoma UW Facebook UW Twitter University of Washington University of Washington Students Parents Faculty & Staff Alumni Quick Links About COVID-19 Stories UW Medicine stories Media coverage Experts for journalists FAQ Stories All stories News releases UW News blog UW Notebook Official notices UW in the media Multimedia Video stories Soundbites/b-roll Interactives Experts Directory Expert quotes COVID-19 experts Speakers Bureau Media contacts For Journalists For researchers Media Training Data and Reports UW News Menu About COVID-19 Stories UW Medicine stories Media coverage Experts for journalists FAQ Stories All stories News releases UW News blog UW Notebook Official notices UW in the media Multimedia Video stories Soundbites/b-roll Interactives Experts Directory Expert quotes COVID-19 experts Speakers Bureau Media contacts For Journalists For researchers Media Training Data and Reports Home UW News UW News blog UW News blog May 19, 2022 Q&A: Why discriminatory bias is a public health problem Tony Greenwald, emeritus professor of psychology at the University of Washington and creator of the Implicit Association Test, explains how public health strategies can help address unintended discrimination. Read more May 17, 2022 UW Foster School of Business faculty to speak May 20 on improving employee well-being On May 20, faculty experts from the University of Washington Foster School of Business will share their perspectives and research in a series of short talks: “Foster Insights: Creating Better Workplaces and Better Lives.” Read more 25th-annual Undergraduate Research Symposium celebrates undergraduate discovery The 25th annual University of Washington Undergraduate Research Symposium returns this year on May 20 with a hybrid format including both online and in-person presentations, following two years of online only events due to the COVID pandemic. Read more May 13, 2022 ‘Resistance Through Resilience’: Conference highlights compassion-based practices to interrupt racism The seventh annual Center for Communication, Difference and Equity Conference, “Resistance Through Resilience,” will be held in collaboration with the University of Washington Resilience Lab. Read more May 12, 2022 Simulation offers UW students practical experience in crisis negotiation Robert Pekkanen, University of Washington professor in the Jackson School of International Studies, teaches Crisis Negotiation. The centerpiece of the course is the International Strategic Crisis Negotiation Exercise (ISCNE), a negotiation simulation where students act as diplomatic teams facing a real-world crisis scenario. Read more Smokers who switch to e-cigarettes may adopt other healthy routines A University of Washington study of adult smokers finds that those who switch to vaping some or all of the time may adopt other healthy behaviors. Read more May 6, 2022 Model finds COVID-19 deaths among elderly may be due to genetic limit on cell division Your immune system’s ability to combat COVID-19, like any infection, largely depends on its ability to replicate the immune cells effective at destroying the SARS-CoV-2 virus that causes the disease. These cloned immune cells cannot be infinitely created, and a key hypothesis of a new University of Washington study is that the body’s ability to… Read more May 5, 2022 UW professors to participate in panel on recently removed Volunteer Park plaque University of Washington professors Christoph Giebel, Vicente Rafael and Ileana M. Rodríguez-Silva will participate in a discussion on about a memorial plaque that was recently removed from Volunteer Park due to concerns about its accuracy. Read more May 3, 2022 Experiments measure freezing point of extraterrestrial oceans to aid search for life A planetary scientist worked with engineers to measure the physical limits of a liquid for salty water under high pressure. Results suggest where robotic missions should look for extraterrestrial life on the ice-covered oceans of Jupiter’s moon Europa and Saturn’s moon Titan. Read more Many pathologists agree overdiagnosis of skin cancer happens, but don’t change diagnosis behavior As the most serious type of skin cancer, a melanoma diagnosis carries emotional, financial and medical consequences. That’s why recent studies finding that there is an overdiagnosis of melanoma are a significant cause for concern. “Overdiagnosis is the diagnosis of disease that will not harm a person in their lifetime. If melanoma is being overdiagnosed,… Read more April 28, 2022 Unchecked global emissions on track to initiate mass extinction of marine life If emissions from greenhouse gases continue, species losses from warming and oxygen depletion of ocean waters could eclipse all other human stressors on marine species by around 2100. Tropical waters would experience the greatest loss of biodiversity, while polar species are at the highest risk of extinction Read more New meta-analysis examines link between self-harm and stress A new, University of Washington-led meta-analysis finds that people engage in self-injury and/or think about suicide to alleviate some types of stress; and that there is potential for therapy and other interventions. Read more April 25, 2022 La primera: Communication major Paula Thiele breaks in new ‘¡Spain Works!’ internship Paula Thiele, a communication major who will graduate this spring, became the inaugural scholar to participate in the UW’s new Scholarship for Immersive Internships in León, dubbed “¡Spain Works!” — a partnership between the UW León Center, UW Study Abroad and the UW Career & Internship Center. Read more Ranking: UW is No. 25 in world The University of Washington ranks No. 25 in the world, or fifth among U.S. public institutions for student experience, faculty prestige and quality of research, according to a list published April 25 by the Center for World University Rankings. Read more April 21, 2022 Q&A: Making Earth-friendly electronics Three researchers in the University of Washington College of Engineering are exploring ways to make electronics more Earth-friendly. Read more April 13, 2022 Ice shards in Antarctic clouds let more solar energy reach Earth’s surface Including the splintering of ice inside clouds around Antarctica improves high-resolution global models’ ability to simulate clouds over the Southern Ocean – and thus the models’ ability to simulate Earth’s climate. Read more April 7, 2022 UW documentary chronicles story of tree poacher accused of starting 2018 fire A new documentary from University of Washington professors Lynn M. Thomas and Daniel Hoffman tells the story of a man accused of starting a wildfire while illegally removing trees from the Olympic National Forest. Read more April 6, 2022 UW recognized as leader in sustainability by STARS The University of Washington once again has been recognized as a sustainability leader by the Sustainability Tracking, Assessment & Rating System (STARS). Read more UW-housed RAPID Facility receives $6M renewal grant The first-of-its-kind center has received a $6 million renewal grant from the National Science Foundation. Read more March 18, 2022 Urbanization is driving evolution of plants globally, study finds A study led by evolutionary biologists at multiple institutions, including the University of Washington, focuses on a specific plant in examining whether parallel evolution is occurring in cities all over the world. Read more March 14, 2022 Q&A: Preserving context and user intent in the future of web search In a new perspective paper, University of Washington professors Emily M. Bender and Chirag Shah respond to proposals that reimagine web search as an application for large language model-driven conversation agents. Read more March 11, 2022 Statement from UW President on tragic deaths of two UW community members The following is a statement from University of Washington President Ana Mari Cauce following the news that a UW professor and a UW staff member were killed while diving off the coast of Mexico over the weekend. Read more March 10, 2022 Newest satellite data shows remarkable decline in Arctic sea ice over just three years In the past 20 years, the Arctic has lost about one-third of its winter sea ice volume, and winter sea ice in the Arctic has lost about a foot and a half of thickness over just the past three years. This thinning is largely due to loss of older, multiyear sea ice that is more resistant to melting. Read more Gordon Stuart Peek, UW alumnus who donated Gerberding and Kane bells, dies at 96 Gordon Stuart Peek, a University of Washington alumnus who donated the bells that sit on two sides of Red Square, died peacefully at his home on March 2, 2022. He was 96. Read more March 9, 2022 More air pollution present in areas with historical redlining A team of researchers at the UW and UC Berkeley has found that housing discrimination practices dating from the 1930s still drive air pollution disparities in hundreds of American cities today. Read more February 28, 2022 UW statement on recent gift return, status of Israel Studies program University of Washington Professor Liora Halperin, supported by the Benaroya endowment, expressed views in a statement that were not shared by the donor, Becky Benaroya. Our mission as a university demands that our scholars have the freedom to pursue their scholarship where it leads them and to freely express their views as academics and as individuals. After several months of good faith conversations between University and Stroum Center leadership, Prof. Halperin and the donor, Mrs. Benaroya requested that her gift be returned, and it was determined that returning the gift was the best path forward. Read more February 4, 2022 Planting trees in pastureland provides significant cooling in the tropics Farmers struggling to adapt to rising temperatures in tropical regions can unleash the benefits of natural cooling, alongside a host of other wins, simply by dotting more trees across their pasturelands. For the first time, a study led by the University of Washington puts tangible numbers to the cooling effects of this practice. Read more January 26, 2022 Air pollution from planes, roads infiltrates schools and can be dramatically reduced with portable air filters What started as a University of Washington-led project to measure air pollution near Sea-Tac International Airport has led to schools in the area installing portable air filters to improve indoor air quality. First, UW researchers found they were able to parse aircraft pollution from roadway pollution in the communities under Sea-Tac International Airport flight paths… Read more Glaciers are squishy, holding slightly more ice than thought Though usually though of as a solid, glaciers are also slightly compressible, or squishy. This compression over the huge expanse of an ice sheet — like Antarctica or Greenland — makes the overall ice sheet more dense and lowers the surface by tens of feet compared to what would otherwise be expected. Read more January 20, 2022 Shift work helps marine microbes share scarce ocean resources With a low supply of and high competition for key nutrients, scientists have puzzled over the vast diversity of microbial species found in the open ocean. A new study shows that time of day is key, with species of marine microbes specializing in different shifts throughout the day and night. Read more January 19, 2022 Bubbles of methane rising from seafloor in Puget Sound The release of methane, a powerful greenhouse gas responsible for almost a quarter of global warming, is being studied around the world, from Arctic wetlands to livestock feedlots. A University of Washington team has discovered a source much closer to home: 349 plumes of methane gas bubbling up from the seafloor in Puget Sound, which holds more water than any other U.S. estuary. Read more January 11, 2022 Q&A: Bringing a justice lens to wildlife management A team of researchers led by the University of Washington drew upon the field of environmental justice — which primarily has focused on harms to people and public health — and applied its concepts to wildlife management, considering forms of injustice that people, communities and animal groups might experience. Lead author and UW assistant professor Alex McInturff talks with UW News about this work and why it’s significant. Read more December 17, 2021 Deforestation-fueled heat already affecting millions of outdoor workers in the tropics New research from an interdisciplinary team at the University of Washington, Duke University and The Nature Conservancy shows how local temperature increases in the tropics – compounded by accelerating deforestation – may already be jeopardizing the well-being and productivity of outdoor workers. Read more December 16, 2021 Bias against Native Americans spikes when mascots are removed New research led by the University of Washington shows how discontinuing a Native American mascot can stoke racism among a team’s surrounding community. Read more December 14, 2021 Millions in savings from construction of UW’s Hans Rosling Center for Population Health to fund new research Using project savings from the construction of the Hans Rosling Center for Population Health, the University of Washington will fund dozens of new research projects through the Population Health Initiative’s interdisciplinary grant program. The new grants will fall into three tiers, with funding from $20,000 to $200,000 per award. “We are delighted to have the… Read more December 3, 2021 Killer whales lingering in increasingly ice-free Arctic Ocean Underwater microphones show that killer whales, or orcas, have spent more time in the Arctic Ocean in recent years. The increasingly ice-free Arctic Ocean may give orcas more opportunity to hunt for prey off the west and north coasts of Alaska. Read more November 22, 2021 Nearly 50 UW-affiliated experts included on Highly Cited Researchers 2021 list The University of Washington is proud to announce that 50 UW faculty and researchers have been named on the annual Highly Cited Researchers 2021 list from Clarivate. Read more November 17, 2021 A chatbot can help doctors better understand incoming emergency department patients’ social needs A team led by the UW developed a chatbot that could ask emergency department visitors about social needs, including housing, food, access to medical care and physical safety. Read more November 11, 2021 Deforestation, climate change linked to more worker deaths and unsafe conditions Outdoor workers in the world’s lower-latitude tropical forests may face a greater risk of heat-related deaths and unsafe working conditions because of deforestation and climate warming, according to a study led by The Nature Conservancy, the University of Washington and Indonesia’s Mulawarman University. In the study, researchers found that increased temperatures of 0.95 C (1.7… Read more November 10, 2021 New method shows today’s warming ‘unprecedented’ over past 24,000 years A new effort to reconstruct Earth’s climate since the last ice age, about 24,000 years ago, highlights the main drivers of climate change, and how far out of bounds human activity has pushed the climate system. Read more Next page UW News Blog Read more from the UW News Blog Blog Search UW News Search for: UW Experts Ukraine Climate COVID-19 Full directory Categories Browse Administrative affairs Arts and entertainment Buildings and grounds Education Engineering Environment For UW employees Health and medicine Honors and awards Interactive Learning News releases News roundups Official notices Politics and government Population Health Profiles Research Science Social science Technology UW and the community UW Notebook UW Today blog Latest news releases Critical race theory at center of UW study of unequal access to treatment for opioid addiction 3 days ago Seattle democracy vouchers increase donations, number of candidates in city elections 4 days ago Social cohesion found to be key risk factor in early COVID infections 1 week ago More Connect Campus publications A&S Perspectives College of Education University of Washington Magazine The Daily UW Press More publications Evans School Foster School of Business UW Medicine Newsroom Information School IT Connect News Jackson School Law School News President's blog School of Dentistry School of Nursing School of Pharmacy School of Public Health School of Social Work The Trend in Engineering UW Libraries: News & Events UW Video Washington Engineer UW Today Newsletter Subscribe UW Today Daily UW Today Week in Review If you're trying to subscribe with a non-UW email address, please email uwnews@uw.edu for assistance. For UW employees Submission guidelines Submission form University of Washington Be boundless Connect with us: Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Pinterest Accessibility Contact Us Jobs Campus Safety My UW Rules Docket Privacy Terms Newsletter © 2022 University of Washington | Seattle, WA