Skip to main content Service Request Penn Homepage Penn Sustainability Penn Connects Search this site Main menu About Services Standards & Policies Sustainability Capital Process Maps Waste Management and Recycling Waste Management and Recycling Print Facilities and Real Estate Services is responsible for the collection of municipal waste and recyclables at Penn. A Solid Waste Management Planning Committee was created in 2013 to evaluate our processes. Our services and programs help the individual reduce their waste stream, reuse products to extend their life cycle, and recycle products at the end of their life cycle. For more information on Minimizing Waste, please visit the Penn Sustainability website. Did You Know? We color code our waste to make trash collection easier (download complete details (PDF)). For example, trash is collected in white bags and co-mingled recycling is collected in blue bags. The Penn Process You may see your trash and recycling get hauled away in one bin, but the bags are separated into two streams at the loading dock by Facilities staff. From there, our trash is transported to a local landfill and the recycling is taken to a facility that has special equipment to separate Penn's co-mingled recyclables. See a diagram of the process (PDF). Single-Stream Recycling Works JP Mascaro & Sons sorts our single-stream recycling at their materials recovery facility in Berks County and ensures that value is extracted from the materials. For more information on what you can recycle, click below: Landfill Waste » Single Stream Recycling » Compost (food and organic waste) » Lab Waste » Universal waste (e-waste) » Miscellaneous Waste » If you need additional trash or recycling bins and bags for interior spaces, contact your Building Administrator. For outdoor areas contact the Facilities and Real Estate Services call center at 215.898.7208. The Facilities call center can also arrange for distribution of pictogram stickers for labeling the interior and exterior bins. Landfill Trash - Use the GRAY or BLACK bins Waste is considered landfill trash when no alternative disposal options exist, and includes styrofoam and (when composting is not available) food waste and food-soiled plastics/paper. Hazardous materials, such as non-alkaline batteries and CFL bulbs, should not be placed into trash bins. Download the Landfill poster (PDF) Single Stream Recycling - Use the BLUE bins Penn uses single-steam recycling. This means that all recyclable items can be placed together in the same bin. Some areas on campus still have separate bins for "Mixed Paper" and "Plastic/Glass/Aluminum", but all recyclables go to a single stream recycling facility. When the recyclables are taken to the recycling facility, they get sorted by machinery so that they can be recycled appropriately. Below is a detailed list of what can be recycled on campus: Paper, Cardboard, Glass, Plastics, Metals YES NO All hard plastics (Plastics #1-#7), plastic containers Clean flexible plastics, including: Packaging materials like bubble wrap and air pillows Plastic wrap, plastic bags, food pouches, and case wrap Polystyrene (Styrofoam) All colors of clean glass food and beverage containers Light bulbs, window glass, lab glass All standard paper including books, office paper, newspaper, and magazines Tissue paper, paper towels, wax paper Hardcover books All clean cardboard including milk cartons, cereal boxes, non-greasy pizza boxes, and to-go containers Plastic-lined, wax-lined or food-soiled cardboard and paper, including coffee cups All metals including cans, tops, and aluminum foil and trays Batteries and electronics Download the Recycling poster (PDF) Compost (Food and Organic Waste) - Use the GREEN bins Compost is defined as all food waste, soiled paper, compostable tableware and leaves. Composting breaks down these materials so that they can be reused as fertilizer and soil amendments. Compost collection takes place at several locations on campus, including all campus dining halls and Joe's Cafe at Wharton. Penn's composting contractor (Organic Diversion) accepts all food wastes, including meat, dairy, eggs, and oils. Yard waste such as leaves is composted on campus. Download the Compost poster (PDF) Lab Waste For members of the Penn community who work in labs, this signage contains recyclable items found in many labs. All containers must be empty, and all labels must be defaced. Many items also need to be triple rinsed before being placed in a recycling bin. Do NOT recycle anything out of tissue culture labs. Download the Lab Recycling poster (PDF). E-Waste Based on EPA regulations, E-Waste is defined as almost anything with a plug, including electronics, computers, televisions, and LED or CRT monitors. A special vendor must be used to dispose of unwanted computers (including monitors, printers, and hard drives), electronics, and appliances. You may use Elemental or E-Force to collect and dispose of these items. UNIVERSAL WASTE Universal waste includes mercury-containing equipment, such as CFL bulbs and other lamps, alkaline and lithium batteries, and cell phones. Universal waste contains a lot of heavy metals and toxic materials that can seep into the water supply or poison the ground. All of these materials can be contained, and most can be reused, if they are properly disposed of. Federal regulations determine how these items are disposed of. For additional questions and regulatory concerns, visit Penn's Environmental, Health, and Radiation Safety (EHRS) website. REQUEST BATTERY RECYCLING PICK-UP If interested, eForce can provide your building with a battery recycling tube at a cost (pictured at right). Penn can provide services to collect the waste batteries for bulk disposal when the tube is full. To request a battery recycling tube pick up, contact Craig Roncace, Urban Park Supervisor, or the FRES Sustainability Office. Miscellaneous Waste Miscellaneous waste includes books, bulk trash, writing instruments, shoes, clothing, office products and ink and toner cartridges. The table below provides the appropriate resources for managing different types of miscellaneous waste. ITEM DISPOSAL METHOD Furniture Ben's Attic Bulk Trash Facilities Call Center, 215.898.7208 Shoes and clothing PennMOVES OR There is also a Goodwill dropoff box outside of Rodin College House. Sustainability Energy Management Built Environment Waste Management and Recycling Collaborative Efforts Info for: Penn Community Facilities & Real Estate Services 3101 Walnut St Philadelphia, Pa 19104 Emergency/Vehicular Address: 3160 Chestnut Street (proceed to the glass Pavilion at end of the parking lot) © 2022 University of Pennsylvania Report accessibility issues and get help » Webmaster Contact » Service Request Penn Homepage Penn Sustainability Penn Connects About Mission Organizational Chart Departments Campus History Campus Plan News Divisional Overview Vendor Information Directions to FRES Services Maintenance and Renovation Campus and Building Plans Landscape Planned Events Real Estate Signage Moving Services Standards & Policies Standards Policies Safety Procedures Sustainability Energy Management Built Environment Waste Management and Recycling Collaborative Efforts Capital Process Initiate a Project Capital Planning Facilities Renewal Maps and Locations Building Locations Penn Connects Public Art Bike Racks Discover Penn Public Parking Printing the Campus Map PennAccess Location List Contacts Penn Community Penn Homepage