Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Apply Visit Give Information For Current Students Alumni Recruiters Search BC.edu Links Menu Main Nav Back Back Close About Overview Dean's Message Why the Carroll School? Diversity & Inclusion Diversity News Accreditation Board of Advisors Faculty Openings Visit Contact Related Links About Boston College Maps & Directions BC News Undergraduate Overview Academics Advising Peer Advisors Staff Advisors Concentrations Minors The Kevin Eidt Memorial Scholarship Career Accelerator Summer Management Catalyst Program Portico Careers Social Media CSOM Undergraduate Career Resources Placement Data Career Accelerator Study Abroad Community & Student Life FAQ CSOM Undergrad FAQs: COVID-19 Mar 13: Letter From Undergraduate Dean's Office Mar 20: Registration and Advising Updates Contact Graduate Overview Admission Visits and Events Tuition and Aid O’Brien Fellowship Graduate Admission FAQ International Applicants Information for U.S. Military MBA Programs Full-Time MBA Part-Time MBA Data Analytics Sequence Electives Applied Learning BC MBA Ambassadors M.S. Programs M.S. in Finance M.S. in Accounting Ph.D. Programs Ph.D. in Accounting Ph.D. in Finance Ph.D. in Organization Studies Community & Student Life Living in Boston Career Development Faculty Overview Faculty Directory Part-Time Faculty Faculty Expertise Departments Overview Concentrations Academics Accounting Undergraduate Concentrations Seminar Series Careers Message From the Chairperson Business Analytics Concentration & Academics Careers Seminar Series Message From the Chairperson Business Law & Society Finance Academics and Study Abroad F22 Registration Info Faculty Ph.D. Program Seminar Series Job Market Candidates Message From the Chairperson Information Systems Concentration & Academics Message From the Chairperson Seminar Series Management & Organization Concentration & Academics Seminar Series Careers Message From the Chairperson Marketing Concentration & Academics Careers Awards and Appointments Faculty Message From the Chairperson Fall 2022 Registration Centers Close Directory A to Z Listing Search Carroll School Search BC.edu Find pages or people Search Close Close Apply Visit Give Current Students Alumni Recruiters BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close Home Undergraduate Academics Advising Peer Advisors Peer Advisors Peer Advisors Schedule The Peer Advisors are seniors in the Carroll School who have been carefully selected to yield a group with a variety of backgrounds, academic concentrations, and experiences to provide an on-the-ground perspective for underclassmen. They are available to help their classmates with course recommendations, recruiting and internship process, interview preparation and resources, study abroad, and extracurricular activities. All drop-in hours are help in Fulton 315. Jessie Cheng Meet Jessie! Jessie is concentrating in Marketing with a minor in Applied Psychology and Human Development. This past summer, she interned at Universal Pictures as a Film Music Creative Intern. On-campus she is a member of the Against the Current Christian A Cappella, and she is part of the Student Organization Funding Committee. Jessie is looking forward to being back on campus and can’t wait to watch live musicals in Robsham theatre! Jessie’s favorite thing about CSOM: The faculty members and how knowledgeable, giving, and supportive they are. They are always there to offer the best guidance for students. One thing you wish you knew when you were a sophomore: Understanding how to find better work-life balance, staying driven while prioritizing friendships and health, both physical and mental. Advice for underclassmen in CSOM: Initiate passion projects that give you the platform to unleash your creativity and invite the people you love to be part of that creative journey with you! College is one of the best times to explore your interests and start cool projects, so seek support and go for it. Start your own podcast, your own business, your own YouTube channel, your own on-campus club—whatever it is, you're creating opportunities for yourself and also positively impacting others! Here’s a fun fact about Jessie! I am publishing my first Young Adult novel this August, and it speaks on mental health within the entertainment industry! Resham Jariwala Meet Resham! Resham is dual concentrating in Operations Management and Business Analytics with a minor in Managing for Social Impact and the Public Good. This past summer, Resham worked at Dell Technologies as a Business Operations Services Intern. While not at work, Resham spent her time learning to cook meals from diverse cuisines and is happy to announce that she has perfected her banana bread recipe! On-campus, Resham is the President of the Campus Activities Board, a member of MASTI, BC’s Bollywood Fusion Dance Team, and a Tour Guide for Student Admission Program. Resham is pumped for her senior year, where she hopes to make the most of her BC career through BC traditions and adventures with her friends! Favorite thing about CSOM: The willingness of professors and faculty to guide students through their college journey, inside and outside the classroom. Professors are genuinely interested in you as a person and foster an environment where students feel comfortable talking to them about anything. One thing you wish you knew when you were a sophomore: The power and support of the BC alumni network are mind-blowing. I have run into BC alumni in the most unique places – on an airplane, walking through Cambridge, and even during the middle of a Zoom call with my boss during my internship – and had genuine conversations with each of them. The individuals who attend and graduate from Boston College are exceptional, and I wish I had taken the opportunity to connect with alumni earlier on. Advice for underclassmen in CSOM: You don’t need to have it figured out, and it is never too late to make a change or try something new. College is the perfect opportunity to explore your options, take risks, and do what you want to do. Get comfortable with being uncomfortable because that’s the reality of college, and frankly, the reality of life. Here’s a fun fact about Resham! I have traveled to 13 countries throughout the world! Leonardo Kim Meet Leonardo! Leonardo is dual concentrating in Finance and Entrepreneurship. This past summer, Leonardo interned at Jefferies NYC as an investment banking summer analyst. Leonardo sought out the best halal carts in the city (recommendations are welcomed and appreciated). On-campus, Leonardo is a member of the Korean International Students Association. Favorite thing about CSOM: CSOM does not teach management classes to guide students in merely creating bottom-line profit, but instead embeds the “service to others” mindset into the business realm to develop leaders that use profits as a means to an end in helping others. One thing you wish you knew when you were a sophomore: It’s okay to explore different industries and professions and find out what you genuinely want to do, but realistically, those accelerated recruiting timelines do exist. Advice for underclassmen in CSOM: Some words of advice I would tell myself: Go outside your social bubble. Talk with as many peers as possible. Professors are people too—get to know them on a personal level. Engage in the BC experience—organizations, campus events, and many more. Sunny Lee Meet Sunny! Sunny has a double concentration in Marketing and Business Analytics. This past summer, Sunny interned at IBM as a Summit Sales Intern. The highlight of Sunny’s summer, however, was soaking up the California sunshine, dancing, embarking on scenic beach hikes, and discovering her favorite gelato flavor. On-campus, Sunny is a McMullen Student Ambassador, a Synergy Hip Hop Dance Company member, a member of the Women Innovators Network. Favorite thing about CSOM: The abundance of resourceful advisors and professors dedicated to helping you succeed. One thing you wish you knew when you were a sophomore: It may be awkward at first, but you won't grow if you don't get out of your comfort zone. Growth comes from doing what will get you to the next step, even if you're scared and don't feel like doing it. Advice for underclassmen in CSOM: Be proactive. Reach out and take advantage of all the resources you can and more. Tallulah Manalo-LaManna Meet Tallulah! Tallulah is a senior in the Carroll School of Management concentrating in Finance. This past summer, Tallulah interned at PNC as a Capital Markets Summer Analyst. Aside from work, Tallulah spent the summer enjoying beach trips and visiting friends throughout the east coast. Tallulah couldn’t be more excited to be back on campus and get back to her on-campus activities. Tallulah is a member of the Fulton Leadership Society, the Women’s Ultimate Frisbee Team, and Big Brothers Big Sisters. Favorite thing about CSOM: The network of helpful and caring professors who are always there to help their students. One thing you wish you knew when you were a sophomore: You don't need to know what career you want even though it may seem like you do. Advice for underclassmen in CSOM: Don't force yourself down a career path because it seems like something you should do, but rather take your time to figure out what you actually want to do. In the end, this is what will be your most fulfilling job! Here’s a fun fact about Tallulah! Her parents met at BC!! Liam O’Connor Meet Liam! Liam is concentrating in Finance with a minor in history. This past summer, Liam interned at Staples as an Inventory Analyst. When not at his internship, Liam enjoyed listening to podcasts and keeping up with the NBA Playoffs. Much like his peers, Liam cannot wait to get back to campus; he is especially excited to attend BC sports games in person. Go Eagles!! On-campus, Liam is a member of Big Brothers Big Sisters of Eastern Massachusetts. Favorite thing about CSOM: The number of resources that help with the internship search, such as Career Accelerator, peer advisors, resume and cover letter templates, and tips for LinkedIn/Handshake profiles, all go a long way. One thing you wish you knew when you were a sophomore: There is still so much time to pick up a second concentration or a minor, so instead of trying to get core done as quickly as possible, it may be better to pick a class in a subject you’ve always wanted to. Even if you don’t have the room until Junior year, you still have time to accomplish a minor/dual concentration on time! Advice for underclassmen in CSOM: Go to office hours early in the semester to gauge what your professors are looking for from you work-wise to help get a better sense of what is expected, and never be afraid to reach out because professors love helping! Also, never hesitate to ask a peer advisor for advice on which classes to take or how to make your schedule work because everyone wants you to enjoy your time at BC and give back! Here’s a fun fact about Liam: He met Payton Manning at the ESPYs in 2017! Matt Owens Meet Matt! Matt is dual concentrating in Finance and Marketing with a minor in history. This past summer, he interned at Simon-Kucher & Partners as an Associate Consultant. On-campus, Matt is involved with the Fulton Leadership Society, WZBC Sports Radio, Cooking Club, Boston College Dance Marathon, and the American Enterprise Institute. Matt cannot wait to get back on campus for his senior year! He is really looking forward to the football season and tailgating with his friends! Favorite thing about CSOM: Everyone from students to professors is genuinely interested in helping you succeed. One thing you wish you knew when you were a sophomore: Start networking as soon as possible. BC Alumni couldn’t be happier to help you out. Advice for underclassmen in CSOM: Do not be afraid to ask for advice from the upperclassmen. We are here to help you with whatever you need. Here’s a fun fact about Matt! He was a Junior Iron Chef of Kansas City in the 6th grade! Shannon Reardon Meet Shannon! Shannon is a senior in the Carroll School of Management concentrating in Accounting for Finance and Consulting. This past summer, Shannon interned at RSM as an Audit and Assurance summer analyst and spent her free time teaching herself German! Back on campus, Shannon is the President of Hoops for Hope and is a Teaching Assistant for Professor McCall’s Forensic Accounting class. The highlight of Shannon’s BC career was studying abroad the summer after her freshman year in Dublin, Ireland, and she recommends anyone interested in abroad to speak with upperclassmen and advisors about this life-changing opportunity. Favorite thing about CSOM: CSOM’s endless sense of opportunity. Formative classes in the Carroll School—TechTrek West—afford students the chance to learn about tech and entrepreneurship through an intensive field study out to the West Coast (Silicon Valley). Engaging with a range of executives and entrepreneurs allows students to explore classroom concepts through a real-world business lens. One thing you wish you knew when you were a sophomore: Start building your network early on. From professors and BC alumni to even event speakers, the Carroll School offers many individuals with lots of wisdom to offer, so don’t be afraid to reach out! Establishing relationships can have a strong influence on your success—both professionally and personally. Advice for underclassmen in CSOM: Don’t let failure limit your success. Whether it be a rejection from a club or a bad grade, failure can be painful. However, if you invest the time into learning from each mistake, big and small, and apply those lessons going forward, failure turns into an opportunity for growth. Here’s a fun fact about Shannon! In middle school, she trained for gymnastics alongside Aly Raisman and her Olympic coach Mihai Brestyan. Alvaro Rodriguez Calvet Meet Alvaro Alvaro has a dual concentration in Finance and Operations Management with a minor in philosophy. This past summer, Alvaro interned at Goldman Sachs and traveled to Alaska! On-campus, Alvaro is involved in the Boston Consulting Club, Consultants for Social Impact, and is a Winston Ambassador. Favorite thing about CSOM: The faculty and the Fulton Honors Library. One thing you wish you knew when you were a sophomore: Tempus fugit (time flies!!) Advice for underclassmen in CSOM: Imagine who you could be and then aim single-mindedly at that. Cooper Schmitz Meet Cooper! Cooper is dual concentrating in Finance and Information Systems with a minor in Managing for Social Impact and the Public Good. Over this past summer, Cooper interned at KPMG as a Financial Transformation Intern. Cooper enjoyed running, surfing, playing soccer, playing guitar, and reading during his free time! Cooper is ecstatic to get back to campus and to get back to tailgates! On-campus, he is involved in the Vice President of BC Men's Club Soccer, a member of Fulton Leadership Society, 4Boston, Appalachia Volunteers, Freshman League, and a TA for Courage to Know. Favorite thing about CSOM: Professor Gallaugher's Swift Class and Professor Smith's Portico class! One thing you wish you knew when you were a sophomore: Don't focus too much on who your internship is for, but what you do at your internship and what value you can create for yourself and the company. Advice for underclassmen in CSOM: Look at the electives and start taking them ASAP! The CSOM and A&S core is good to complete, but BC has a wide selection of awesome courses that you can take early! They may even change how you think about your future path at BC! Here’s a fun fact about Cooper! He was in Vogue Italy as a kid (stop by this fall semester to find out how!) Dean Vayias Meet Dean! Dean is dual concentrating in Finance and Business Analytics. This past summer, Dean interned at Sia Partners as a Junior Consultant. During his free time, Dean enjoyed biking, playing golf, and playing basketball with his friends. On-campus, Dean is a member of the marching band, BC Bigs, and Investment Club. Favorite thing about CSOM: Dean’s Coffee One thing I wish I knew as a sophomore: It is perfectly normal not to know precisely what you want to pursue as a career. I did not (and still do not) know of every type of opportunity out there, so talk to as many upperclassmen or BC alum as possible. They are more than willing to help, and you are not burdening them by talking to them! Advice for underclassmen in CSOM: Whenever you have a question, ask. You never know what small conversation could lead to a new discovery or a new relationship with someone who can help you down the line. Here’s a fun fact about Dean! He has a National park quarter collection! Ashley Yoon Meet Ashley! Ashley is a senior in the Carroll School of Management concentrating in Finance. Ashley spent this past summer working as an investment banking summer analyst and exploring NYC with her friends. Like her peers, Ashley is beyond excited to get back on campus, where she plans on making fun memories with her friends and living in the townhouses of Gabelli. On-campus, Ashley is involved in The Heights and AMDP. Favorite thing about CSOM: The friends you make and the professors you meet are so willing to help out! One thing you wish you knew when you were a sophomore: Try your best, and it will all work out! Advice for underclassmen in CSOM: Take classes that are not in your field and make friends in other concentrations. Here’s a fun fact about Ashley! I have twin siblings born one minute apart! Haiyun Zhu Meet Haiyun! Haiyun is concentrating in Accounting with a minor in International Studies. Haiyun spent this past summer interning at PwC and traveling all over the United States. Haiyun can’t wait to get back on campus, where she will be living with her friends in Rubi. On-campus, Haiyun is involved in the Accounting Academy, AHANA Management Academy, and the Taiwanese Cultural Organization. Favorite thing about CSOM: How approachable professors/faculties are and how welcoming they are. One thing you wish you knew when you were a sophomore: Take care of yourself, physically and mentally. Advice for underclassmen in CSOM: Attend any event that catches your interest if you have the time! You can learn, hear a different perspective, connect with people and even get a bunch of free swags! Here’s a fun fact about Haiyun! She was born and raised in the Middle East!! Back To Top Back To Top Carroll School of Management Fulton Hall Boston College 140 Commonwealth Avenue Chestnut Hill, MA 02467-3809 About the Carroll School Undergraduate Graduate Faculty & Research Departments Centers Contact Accreditation Apply Visit Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkedIn Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College