SMU Cox Display Navigation and Site Search SMU Cox School of Business SMU Cox Utility Navigation Students Companies Alumni Apply Contact Us smu.edu Display Navigation Display Search Search SMU SMU Cox Main Navigation At SMU Cox Display At SMU Cox Sub Menu An exceptional school in the heart of a vibrant, global, business-friendly city. Collins Center Cox News Cox Events Graduate Outcomes CoxToday Magazine Academic Departments Career Growth Global Programs Degrees & Programs Display At SMU Cox Sub Menu Rigorous programs within a truly customized academic experience. Master of Science MS in Accounting MS in Business Analytics MS in Finance MS in Management MS Health Promotion Management MS in Sport Management MBA Full-Time Two-Year MBA Full-Time One-Year MBA MBA Direct Professional MBA Online MBA Executive MBA Joint Degrees JD/MBA MA / MBA MS Engineering / MBA Undergraduate Bachelor of Business Administration Non-Degree Executive Education Summer Business Institute Diversity & Inclusion Display At SMU Cox Sub Menu Shaping Leaders for a Changing World. Diversity at Cox Latino Leadership Initiative I Am Latino in America Subiendo Academy at SMU Cox School Dean’s Message Executive Education Display At SMU Cox Sub Menu Meet your career challenges head-on by mining the expertise of the nation's top business leaders. Programs for Individuals Custom Solutions Latino Leadership Initiative HR Roundtable Graduate Certificates Collins Center Learning Culture Display At SMU Cox Sub Menu An innovative learning culture influences the way the world does business. Centers and Institutes Academic Departments Research Business Library NextGen Cox Curriculum People & Community Display At SMU Cox Sub Menu A community where professors know students by name and help them create powerful networks. Students Alumni Faculty Companies Cox Executive Board Cox100 Press Releases Display Search Utility Navigation Students Companies Alumni Apply Contact Us smu.edu Executive Education Executive Education Overview Programs for Individuals Custom Solutions Latino Leadership Initiative HR Roundtable Overview Programs for Individuals Custom Solutions Latino Leadership Initiative HR Roundtable Connect With Us Growth. Change. Opportunity. Meet your career challenges head-on by mining the expertise of the nation's top business leaders. At SMU Cox Executive Education, you’ll gain breakthrough insights and advanced skills from a fast-paced curriculum, so you can put your new knowledge to work now and get on track to succeed in today's dynamic marketplace. Whether you’re charting the path of your own career or guiding the success of an entire organization, we’re by your side with programs that meet today’s challenges and anticipate the demands of the future. We also have over 40 years of expertise in crafting custom programs suited for your business’ exact needs. With clients ranging from AT&T and Baylor Scott & White Health to Toyota and Walmart, we have skills and knowledge that is trusted the world over. Request More Information Download the Catalog Event Calendar Staff Directory for Executive Education Leading in Unprecedented Times: A Mandate to be Bold ― and Remain Bold For us at Cox, now more than ever, this serves a clarion call to exercise transformational leadership through this extraordinary time. Shane Goodwin, PhD Click here to read more Program Spotlight: Mergers & Acquisitions Mergers & Acquisitions: Where Theory Meets Practice is a new kind of program at SMU Cox. We’re delivering practical intellectual stimulation that satisfies your academic curiosity and balances theory with ready-to-use insights. You get the academic rigor you expect plus interactive exercises, real-world case studies and lessons from leading industry practitioners that help you turn ideas into action. Play Video > Play Video The Certificate in Leadership [now Transformational Leadership] was a refreshing, thought-provoking and very useful program. I really enjoyed every single session. I learned so much and I'll cherish the moments I spent making new friends. Dinesh Ramasvamy, principal consultant at Ericsson The faculty and staff of SMU Cox Executive Education really understand our industry. The facilities are superb and the commitment to collaboration was phenomenal. It’s not just a promise — it’s a fact. Harry M. Hutson Jr., former director of leadership and organizational development, Devon Energy I love that we have management case studies that we can refer back to in our own time — different ways to share a varied lens on how to lead a team. Becky Pena, senior account manager at ShiftWise Meet the Faculty James Linck Professor Mergers & Acquisitions James Linck, finance department chair and distinguished chair in finance, has been asking tough questions and challenging perceived knowledge throughout his 20 years of research on corporate finance, governance and control. See Jim Linck's Profile Robin Pinkley Professor of Management and Organizations Master Negotiation The recipient of SMU's Golden Mustang Award for innovative teaching, Robin is a recognized authority on strategic negotiation and conflict management. See Robin Pinkley's full bio Hemang Desai Robert B. Cullum Professor of Accounting & Department Chair Essentials of Finance & Accounting Hemang is an award-winning teacher whose research is interdisciplinary and is broadly focused in the area of capital markets based research in accounting and finance. See Hemang Desai's full bio Highlight: Transformational Leadership Join Professor Simon Mak as he walks you through a session about Strategic Thinking for the Transformational Leadership Program (previously Certificate in Leadership) where he provides a basic understanding of tools used for strategic thinking in business, including SWOT, Porter's 5 Forces, Business Growth 2x2, Value/Effort 2x2, Design Thinking, and the Business Model Canvas. The tools provided in class will teach you to think about what to do, why you should do it, and when you should do it. Play Video > Play Video Next Steps Questions? Not sure which program fits your needs? Reach out to our team. Contact Us Request More Information SMU Cox Footer Utility Nav Give Contact Us Apply © Cox School of Business Southern Methodist University PO Box 750333 Dallas, Texas 75275-0333 214-768-2000 SMU Cox Legal Home SMU Cox on Social Media Facebook Instagram Twitter