Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Health Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Our Services Appointments Health Topics Events Forms and Guidelines Our Organization News See All Services What's Open Now Patient Resources Quarantine and Isolation Support Coping Tools Immunization Compliance Top Services Birth Control Education Individual Counseling Primary Care Register with Disability Services Sexual Assault: Get Support STI Testing Support Groups Travel Medicine Urgent Medical Concerns Workshops and Trainings Cost of Service Overview Make an Appointment Same Day Service Emergency and After-hours Support Alcohol Body Image Concerns Marijuana Disabilities Other Drugs HIV Insurance Men's Health Mental Health and Well-Being Anxiety Depression Stress Nutrition Physical Activity Relationships Overview Academic Relationships Friendships Roommates Sexual and Reproductive Health Sleep Transgender and Gender Expansive Health Violence Prevention Prevention Consent What Is Sexual Assault? Supporting a Survivor What Is Relationship Abuse? Stalking What Is Sexual Harassment? Bystander Intervention-Step UP! Women's Health See All Events Sexual Assault Awareness Month Columbia Health Flu Season Information Virtual Naloxone Training About Columbia Health Who We Are Who We Serve Confidentiality, Patient Rights, & Patient Responsibilities Operating Philosophy Video Library Your Feedback Staff Directory Health Units Alice! Health Promotion Counseling and Psychological Services Disability Services Gay Health Advocacy Project (GHAP) Insurance Office Medical Services Sexual Violence Response Columbia Health You are here: Home All Services Individual Counseling Individual Counseling Short-term individual counseling is an opportunity to talk with a mental health professional at Counseling and Psychological Services regarding concerns or problems, such as stress, feelings of low self-esteem, anxiety, depression, academic concerns, substance use, issues with friends and family, or relationship concerns. Counseling sessions last approximately 45 minutes. Feeling stressed? Make an appointment to talk with a mental health professional at Counseling and Psychological Services. Eligibility for Services Students who have paid the full Columbia Health and Related Services Fee are eligible for individual counseling (in-person on campus), or alternatively, may request telehealth (Zoom or phone) if they reside in New York State. Ongoing telehealth counseling is generally not appropriate for students experiencing significant mental health crises. Your CPS provider will help determine if telehealth is right for you. If you are neither able to come to campus for appointments and reside outside New York State, we still have a range of services for you: assistance in treatment planning by phone or Zoom. Please call 212-854-2878 and request a "Social Work Consultation," virtual support spaces, virtual counseling through our partner agency, WorkPlace Options. Schedule an appointment online and use “Columbia University” to log in. If you encounter any difficulty, please call 212-854-2878. Getting Started at CPS Students seeking counseling at CPS for the first time, and those who are returning to CPS after a pause of six months or more, must first schedule a treatment planning session. These appointments are not counseling sessions; they are intended to share information on and facilitate access to appropriate treatment options. What to expect in a Treatment Planning Session In these brief appointments we will ask about the concerns you hope to address in counseling, what you may have tried in the past, and gather other basic information to: Ensure that if you are in crisis, you will have immediate access to care without unnecessary delay. Allow us to match you with an appropriate professional for counseling. During this conversation, you are welcome to request a provider of your choice (view staff bios), and we will attempt to honor those requests. Allow us to assess together about whether you might benefit from one of our many virtual support space options. Allows us to assist you if you are in need of referrals to connect with off-campus resources as quickly and efficiently as possible. To direct you, when appropriate, to self-care resources and to provide initial recommendations for managing stress or related issues. Since we will be discussing personal matters, we encourage you to arrange to be in a private space at the time of your appointment. If you and your provider agree to initiate counseling at CPS, you will be invited for a first in-person appointment. How to schedule a Treatment Planning Session Make an appointment via the Patient Portal or call 212-854-2878 and request a treatment planning session. These appointments are typically available within two business days. This session may be conducted by phone or Zoom — whichever you prefer. Please note that the Patient Portal may be used only to schedule treatment planning sessions. To schedule all other appointments, please call 212-854-2878. Working with CPS During the first session or two, counselors work with students to develop an individualized treatment plan that best meets students’ needs. While there is no specific limit on the number of sessions at CPS, services are focused on short-term care designed, for example, to help students improve coping skills, better manage distress, resolve immediate problems or meet near-term personal goals. Many students are able to achieve treatment goals through a relatively brief course of therapy on campus, while others may want or require more specialized or open-ended services and may benefit from an off-campus referral. Diverse Staff Successful counseling depends a good deal on personal chemistry. If a student feels for any reason that their clinician is not a good match, CPS will gladly facilitate a transfer to a different clinician at any time. Students need only ask. Here to Help: Your Counselors at CPS All CPS providers have experience and expertise in working with a full range of student concerns. Most clinicians also have particular interest, experience, or advanced training in specific practice areas, such as trauma support, eating disorders, sexual and gender concerns, and acculturation concerns, among many others. Acute Psychiatric Emergencies Students experiencing acute psychiatric emergencies should call 212-854-2878 for immediate virtual assistance and will be connected to a clinician whenever Counseling and Psychological Services is open. Urgent Care After-hours, call 212-854-2878 for crisis support and recommendations for care. Visit our Coping Tools page for self-help and crisis resources for coping with concerns outside our regular hours of operation. Make an Appointment Closed Sorry, our offices are currently closed. If you are experiencing high levels of distress and are in need of immediate assistance, please call 212-854-2878, available 24/7. Open Now edit location Check out our office locations and hours Health Unit Counseling and Psychological Services Clinical Specialty Counseling Columbia Health Administration Wallach Hall, Suite 125, Mail Code 4202, 1116 Amsterdam Avenue · New York, NY 10027 Phone 212-854-2284 Contact Us [email protected] Internal Use Only Login to Access Follow Us Facebook Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close