Skip to main content Temple University Explore Temple’s Schools and Colleges Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Support Temple Temple University Search Site Search Full Menu Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees President History & Traditions Temple Health News & Media Offices Public Information Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Development Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Libraries Theater-Directing MFA You are here Home Academics Degrees and Programs Theater-Directing MFA Apply Request More Info Theater-Directing MFA Admissions Careers & Opportunities Productions & Facilities Required Courses Scholarships & Financial Aid Master of Fine Arts in Directing Develop skills as an artistic leader and creative communicator with the Master of Fine Arts in Directing in Temple’s School of Theater, Film and Media Arts. The goal of this three-year, 60-credit theater program is to train students to become master storytellers. Collaborate with actors, production teams and writers to deliver a unified, compelling theatrical event. The program is primarily designed to prepare graduates for careers in theater. Culminating in the Thesis Production, the student's fully supported mainstage event, the Theater-Directing MFA curriculum includes acting and movement, dramaturgy and visual history. In addition, you are encouraged to participate in projects such as a stage reading or new plays. Full-time Theater Department faculty—award-winning professionals who have led some of the most successful productions in American theater—are available to mentor students individually. Students can also take advantage of Temple's affiliations with numerous professional theaters, and explore internships with Arden Theatre Company, The Lantern Theater Company, Philadelphia Film Center, Philadelphia Theatre Company, Wilma Theater and others. The city of Philadelphia’s thriving arts scene provides the perfect backdrop for students interested in pursuing a creative degree. Classes & Curriculum Through design, staging, thematic and theatrical interpretation, and artistic/team collaboration and leadership, the curriculum focuses primarily on the director’s commitment to the illumination of text for an audience. Required courses include Directing Practicum, Seminar in Dramatic Literature I, Seminar in Dramatic Literature II and Teaching in Higher Education. Depending on your focus, you may also have the opportunity to pursue classes tailored to your specific interests. Learn more about Theater-Directing MFA courses. Related Graduate Degrees Film and Media Arts MFA MediaXarts: Cinema for New Technologies and Environments MA Musical Theater Collaboration MFA Musical Theater Studies MA Theater-Acting MFA Theater-Design MFA Theater-Playwriting MFA Related Graduate Certificates Documentary Arts and Ethnographic Research Tuition & Fees In keeping with Temple’s commitment to access and affordability, this Master of Fine Arts offers a competitive level of tuition with multiple opportunities for financial support. Tuition rates are set annually by the university and are affected by multiple factors, including program degree level (undergraduate or graduate), course load (full- or part-time), in-state or out-of-state residency, and more. These tuition costs apply to the 2021–2022 academic year. Pennsylvania resident: $1,078.00 per credit Out-of-state: $1,441.00 per credit Learn more about our tuition and fees. Our Advisors Students in the Theater Department’s graduate program are advised by their area head. All students are reviewed each semester by their mentors to discuss progress and registrations. The department administrators register all graduate students for their courses. Program Contact Fred M. Duer is the chair of the Theater Department and the program contact for the Theater-Directing MFA program. Phone: 215-204-2804 Email: fred.duer@temple.edu Accreditation The Theater Department is accredited by the National Association of Schools of Theatre as well as a member of the University Resident Theatre Association. Concentrations You can focus on Theater-Directing or you can take one of the following concentrations. Directing CA-THDI-MFA Additional Program Information Visit School Site View Program Details Go back to AcademicsMore in Theater-Directing MFA Admissions Careers & Opportunities Productions & Facilities Required Courses Scholarships & Financial Aid Apply Request More Info Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Calendar Policies Social Media TUportal TUmail Accessibility Careers at Temple Safety & Emergency Information Ethics & Compliance Privacy Statement Professional Licensure Disclosures Follow Temple University Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community. Apply Request More Info