Skip to Main Content Brown University Graduate Programs Search Menu Graduate Programs Education: Urban Education Policy A.M. school Graduate School department Education Inquire All Graduate Programs Navigate This Page Navigate This Page About the Program Admission Information Financial Aid Completion Requirements Alumni Outcomes Leadership Contact and Location The Department of Education offers a 12–month program to prepare students for a variety of professional careers and/or advanced study involving policy analysis, planning and development in urban public education. The program integrates research, theory and practice to provide students with foundational concepts and core skills in such areas as data analysis and data-based decision making, economic theory and its application in the realm of urban education policy analysis, urban politics and education, human development in an urban education context, and urban demographics. The academic coursework is grounded in practice and is complemented by a concurrent nine-month internship in a local urban education policy setting. The program draws heavily on the urban education policy expertise of the faculty in the Education Department and the Annenberg Institute for School Reform. Collaborations with the Watson Institute for International and Public Affairs, the Center for the Study of Race and Ethnicity in America, the Policy Lab, the Swearer Center, and other academic departments at Brown augment the practical and interdisciplinary aspects of the program. Admission Information Inquire If you have any questions regarding the application process for this program, please email masters_admissions@brown.edu. Admission Requirements GRE Subject: Not required GRE General: Required; the GRE General Test at home version is accepted TOEFL/IELTS: Required for any non-native English speaker who does not have a degree from an institution where English is the sole language of instruction or from a University in the following countries: Australia, Bahamas, Botswana, Cameroon, Canada (except Quebec), Ethiopia, Ghana, Ireland, Kenya, Lesotho, Liberia, Malawi, New Zealand, Nigeria, Zimbabwe, South Africa, Sierra Leone, Swaziland, Tanzania, Gambia, Uganda, United Kingdom (England, Scotland, Northern Ireland, Wales), West Indies, Zambia). The TOEFL iBT Special Home Edition and the IELTS Indicator exam are accepted. Students from mainland China may submit the TOEFL ITP Plus exam. Letters of Recommendations: Three (3) recommendations required Personal Statement: 1000 word personal statement that gives your reasons to pursue graduate work in the field of your study. The statement should include examples of your past work in your chosen field, your plans for study at Brown, issues and problems you'd like to address in your field and your professional goals. Resume/CV: Required Dates/Deadlines Admission Deadline January 19, 2022 Financial Aid Tuition: $7,618 per course; 9 courses in one year Scholarships: Available. More information can be found on the Department of Education website. International students are eligible for scholarships. Completion Requirements The program is one year in duration (twelve months) and consists of nine courses: seven required core courses, and two elective courses. One of the seven required courses is the nine-month policy internship which serves as a key feature of the program. The required courses are in the areas of quantitative research methods and data analysis; education policy analysis; urban politics and urban education policy; economics of education; education systems and structures; qualitative research methods; and the nine-month internship. The elective component of the curriculum allows students to either to gain a greater depth of training in a core area or to broaden their graduate experience by seeking coursework in areas that are related to, but not directly covered by the core courses in the program. Alumni Careers Learn More Leadership Department Chair John Papay john_papay@brown.edu Director of Urban Education Policy Kenneth K. Wong Kenneth_Wong@brown.edu Contact and Location Department of Education Mailing Address Brown University Box 1938 education@brown.edu 401-863-2407 Visit the Department of Education Resources Education Dept. Faculty Program Handbook Graduate School Handbook Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University Brown University For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home Graduate School School of Engineering School of Professional Studies School of Public Health Warren Alpert Medical School This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Education: Urban Education Policy Open details for Education: Urban Education Policy Bookmark this Page