Skip to content Columbia University Irving Medical Center Find People Events Faculty and Staff Resources Give Now Search About Us About Us Facts and Figures Explore CUIMC Events Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion at CUIMC Community Development and Alumni Explore CUIMC Leadership and Administration A-Z Listing Affiliated Hospitals Campus Map and Directions Campus Resources Contact CUIMC Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion At CUIMC, we are committed to continuous improvement in providing culturally inclusive medical education and clinical care. Learn About Our Commitment Education Education Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons Mailman School of Public Health School of Nursing College of Dental Medicine VP&S Columbia Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons is dedicated to developing the next generation of leaders in medicine Learn About Our Academic Programs Research Research The Louisa Gross Horwitz Prize Columbia Technology Ventures Research Administration Columbia Clinical Innovation Lab Patient Care Patient Care ColumbiaDoctors Children's Health Columbia Primary Care Herbert Irving Comprehensive Cancer Center ColumbiaDoctors Dentistry Digital Health Services at Columbia Find a Doctor Search for a provider by specialty, expertise, location and insurance. Schedule an appointment online. Find a Doctor News News For the Media Share Your News CUIMC Update CUIMC Celebrates Columbia Medicine Read the latest news stories about CUIMC faculty, research, and events Explore Our News COVID-19 Resources for CUIMC COVID-19 Resources for CUIMC COVID-19 Information for Patients COVID-19 Campus Safety for Employees and Students COVID-19 Vaccine Information For CUIMC Employees and Students COVID-19 Information and Resources for Clinical Staff COVID-19 Vaccine Information Learn about COVID-19 vaccine availability and requirements for employees and students at CUIMC Get the Latest Information CUIMC Update Sharing news for the faculty, staff, and trainees of Columbia University Irving Medical Center. View previous issues of CUIMC Update. Topics Campus News Research Medical School Public Health Cancer Mental Health Infectious Diseases Neurology Neuroscience Education Heart Health Pediatrics View All Topics Search All News Keywords News Top Stories CUIMC Update - June 1, 2022 View the CUIMC Update, a weekly e-newsletter featuring medical center news and the accomplishments of our faculty, staff, and trainees. Topic Campus News Neighborhood Corner Co-Named Coogan's Way Coogan's bar and restaurant, the now-closed beloved fixture in Washington Heights, was celebrated with the co-naming of the corner of Broadway and 169th Street as Coogan's Way. Topic Campus News Hepatitis Outbreak Among Kids: What Parents Should Know Health authorities around the world are investigating rare cases of children with severe hepatitis of unknown cause. Mercedes Martinez, MD, explains. Topic Pediatrics 3 Myths About Celiac Disease The nutritionists at Columbia University’s Celiac Disease Center have heard every myth about celiac disease, even from their own patients. Topic Campus News Latest News Columbia Glaucoma Screening Program Shows the Benefit of Early Detection April 5, 2022 If untreated, glaucoma can lead to irreversible vision loss. A Columbia screening program is finding more people with the disease than expected. Topic Ophthalmology Columbia Medical Students Recognized for Research April 4, 2022 Sixty-seven medical students shared research on cardiovascular disease, mental illness and hearing loss, cervical cancer screening practices, and more. Top projects won awards in four categories. Topic Medical School Genetic Testing for Parkinson’s Disease: What You Need to Know March 30, 2022 Parkinson’s patients and their families are increasingly turning to genetic testing to learn more about their disease or risk of passing it on. But testing is complex, and counseling is advised. Topic Neurology CUIMC Update - March 30, 2022 March 30, 2022 View the CUIMC Update, a weekly e-newsletter featuring medical center news and the accomplishments of our faculty, staff, and trainees. Topic Campus News CUIMC Inclusive Hiring Effort, Project PossABILITY, Receives City Award March 30, 2022 CUIMC's inclusive hiring program, which connects workers with intellectual or developmental disabilities to job opportunities at the medical center, received a 2022 Customized Employment Award. Topic Campus News New Grad School Rankings: VP&S, Nursing, and Mailman in Top Spots March 29, 2022 In the newest U.S. News rankings of graduate and professional schools, Columbia University’s medical, nursing, and public health schools continue to rank among the top in their respective categories. Topic Campus News Columbia’s Diabetes Center Receives $20 Million Gift from Mike and Maria Repole on Behalf of The Nonna’s Garden Foundation March 24, 2022 The Nonna's Garden Clinical Diabetes Program will support comprehensive care at Columbia University's Berrie Center. Topic Diabetes CUIMC Update - March 23, 2022 March 23, 2022 View the CUIMC Update, a weekly e-newsletter featuring medical center news and the accomplishments of our faculty, staff, and trainees. Topic Campus News Colon Cancer Is Skewing Younger March 22, 2022 With colon cancer becoming more common in people under 50, screening guidelines have changed. Topic Cancer Dr. Lorna Breen Health Care Provider Protection Act Signed Into Law March 18, 2022 Named for a Columbia physician, the new law provides federal grants for mental health programs to support health care workers and prevent suicide. Topic Mental Health Pages first previous 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 … next last Columbia University Irving Medical Center NewYork-Presbyterian About Us Careers News Education Patient Care Research Resources at CUIMC Columbia University Irving Medical Center 630 West 168th Street New York, NY 10032 United States Follow Us Facebook Twitter YouTube LinkedIn Instagram Back to top