Skip to main content Search form Search Information For Current Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Employers Contact Give About Search Menu Public Health Now News Events Publications Topics Student Voices Celebrating the Centennial Our Work to Address COVID-19 Columbia Public Health Magazine Academics Departments Degrees Course Directory Calendar Policy & Procedures Office of Education Research Featured Research Global Health Centers Programs Grants & Awards Corporate Partnerships People Our Faculty Current Students Friends and Supporters Partners Alumni Become a Student Meet Our Faculty Life & Community Degree Finder How to Apply Career Services More Information Master of Public Health Degree Programs Certificate Program Core Curriculum Search You are here Home Public Health Now Events Winter Storm Update/Impacts to Campus and Services Last Updated 12:50pm Fri May 6 See Coronavirus Updates for information on campus protocols. PI Crash Course Skills for Future or New Lab Leaders 10:00 am 6:00 pm Friday 10 June 2022 RSVP Add to Calendar: Google Calendar Outlook RSVP Add to Calendar: Google Calendar Outlook 3032022-pi-458x324.png Online Featuring: Andrea Baccarelli, MD, MPH, PhD. Jeanine Genkinger, PhD. Tuuli Lappalainen, PhD. Ana Navas-Acien, MD, MPH, PhD. Diane Re, PhD. Matthew Perzanowski, PhD. Robert Wright, MD, MPH. Andrea Baccarelli, Jeanine Genkinger, Ana Navas-Acien, Diane Re, Matthew Perzanowski, Mailman School of Public Health. Tuuli Lappalainen, New York Genome Center. Robert Wright, Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai. Event Kind: Training Organizer: Department of Environmental Health Sciences SHARP Invitation Limited to: Open to the Public Website: Learn More Learn More Join us for the next live-stream PI Crash Course on June 9-10, 2022. The Principal Investigator (PI) Crash Course is a two-day intensive boot camp of seminars, discussions, and hands-on activity sessions to provide exposure to fundamental leadership and management skills and tools needed for success in your lab. Senior post-doctoral students and associate research scientists about to start their independent position search are particularly welcome to attend, and we strongly encourage new and recent PIs to participate as it is never too late to get an overview of the survival skills that you will need throughout your career. Register or view more information and prerequisites: https://www.publichealth.columbia.edu/research/precision-prevention/pi-crash-course-skills-future-or-new-lab-leaders Subscribe for updates: https://columbia.us15.list-manage.com/subscribe?u=60d3eb536eacd93ffd4c56c08&id=f88674620b Capacity is limited. Paid registration is required to attend. Contact: PI Crash Course Columbia [dot] SPH [dot] PI [at] gmail [dot] com Return To Calendar Upcoming Events Wednesday 1 June episummer@columbia Friday 3 June Release Webinar for the National Academy of Medicine's Global Roadmap for Health Longevity Friday 3 June COVID-19: From Causes to Consequences Hosted by The Columbia Connection Find out about upcoming events Columnbia Mailman Connect with Us Public Health Now News Events Publications Topics Student Voices Academics Departments Degrees Course Directory Calendar Policy & Procedures Office of Education Research Featured Research Global Health Centers Programs Grants & Awards Corporate Partnerships People Our Faculty Current Students Friends and Supporters Partners Alumni Become a Student Meet Our Faculty Life & Community Degree Finder How to Apply Career Services More Information Columbia University Mailman School of Public Health | 722 West 168th St. NY, NY 10032 Site Map Privacy Columbia University Irving Medical Center Copyright © Columbia University 2019 Information For Current Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Employers