Skip to main content Navigation Academics Admissions Research Locations Student Life Alumni & Giving Athletics Apply Now Electrical Engineering (BSEE) – Power and Renewable Energy Track Program at a Glance Program Bachelor College(s) College of Engineering and Computer Science Department(s) Electrical & Computer Engr In State Tuition Out of State Tuition $212.28 per credit hour $748.89 per credit hour Learn more about program tuition and fees. Admission Requirements Students wanting to declare a major in an engineering discipline must be in good academic standing and must have a "C" (2.0) or better in each of the following courses or their equivalents: MAC 2311C, MAC 2312, PHY 2048C, and CHS 1440 or CHM 2045C. Students wanting to declare a major in an engineering discipline must complete a change of major in the term of completion of the final pending prerequisite course(s) listed above. Degree Requirements Students in the Electrical Engineering major are expected to make consistent good progress toward their degrees to remain enrolled in, or eligible for, any major in the College of Engineering & Computer Science (CECS) or the College of Optics and Photonics (COP). Therefore, any student majoring in Electrical Engineering who repeats any UCF course and does not earn a grade of "C" (2.0) or better on the second attempt will be placed on Lack of Progress Probation and remain on Lack of Progress Probation as long as the student is enrolled in a CECS or COP major. If a student on Lack of Progress Probation does not receive a grade of "C" (2.0) or better by the third attempt in the same UCF course, the student will be excluded from all CECS and COP majors. Any student majoring in Electrical Engineering who has accumulated 7 or more unsuccessful attempts (i.e., grades below "C" (2.0) and withdrawals) over all courses taken at UCF will be placed on Lack of Progress Probation and remain on Lack of Progress Probation as long as the student is enrolled in a CECS or COP major. If a student on Lack of Progress Probation has a tenth unsuccessful attempt over all courses taken at UCF, the student will be excluded from all CECS and COP majors. A student who is excluded from CECS and COP majors may seek readmission to a major in CECS or COP after at least one full year has passed since exclusion. Readmission is not automatic and is dependent upon a high probability of success after readmission. Any student who is readmitted to the Electrical Engineering major will be subject to all probation conditions that applied at the time of exclusion. View Full Description Undergraduate Application Deadlines Freshmen Transfers International Fall May 1 Spring November 1 Summer March 1 Fall July 1 Spring November 1 Summer March 1 Fall March 1 Spring September 1 Summer January 1 Ready to get started? Apply Today Career Opportunities UCF prepares you for life beyond the classroom. Here, you’ll experience a wide range of opportunity, like learning diverse skills from world-renowned faculty to networking with top employers across Central Florida to gaining first-hand experience in internships nearby. Achieve your degree and more as a Knight. Aeronautical Engineer Aerospace Engineer Aircraft Design Engineer Aircraft Designer Antenna Engineer Ceramic Engineering Professor Circuit Design Engineer Computer Hardware Developer Electrical Engineer Electrical Engineering Director Electrical Engineering Professor Electrical Systems Engineer Electronic Parts Designer Electronics Engineering Professor Engineering Research Manager Global Engineering Manager Marine Engineering Professor Mechanical Engineering Professor Process Engineering Manager Wind Tunnel Engineer Show More Career Opportunities Degree Search College of Engineering and Computer Science programs Bachelors Electrical Engineering (BSEE) - Power and Renewable Energy Track University of Central Florida Colleges Burnett Honors Arts and Humanities Business Community Innovation and Education Graduate Studies Health Professions and Sciences Medicine Nursing Optics and Photonics Sciences Undergraduate Studies Hospitality Management × Admission Requirements Students wanting to declare a major in an engineering discipline must be in good academic standing and must have a "C" (2.0) or better in each of the following courses or their equivalents: MAC 2311C, MAC 2312, PHY 2048C, and CHS 1440 or CHM 2045C. Students wanting to declare a major in an engineering discipline must complete a change of major in the term of completion of the final pending prerequisite course(s) listed above. Degree Requirements Students in the Electrical Engineering major are expected to make consistent good progress toward their degrees to remain enrolled in, or eligible for, any major in the College of Engineering & Computer Science (CECS) or the College of Optics and Photonics (COP). Therefore, any student majoring in Electrical Engineering who repeats any UCF course and does not earn a grade of "C" (2.0) or better on the second attempt will be placed on Lack of Progress Probation and remain on Lack of Progress Probation as long as the student is enrolled in a CECS or COP major. If a student on Lack of Progress Probation does not receive a grade of "C" (2.0) or better by the third attempt in the same UCF course, the student will be excluded from all CECS and COP majors. Any student majoring in Electrical Engineering who has accumulated 7 or more unsuccessful attempts (i.e., grades below "C" (2.0) and withdrawals) over all courses taken at UCF will be placed on Lack of Progress Probation and remain on Lack of Progress Probation as long as the student is enrolled in a CECS or COP major. If a student on Lack of Progress Probation has a tenth unsuccessful attempt over all courses taken at UCF, the student will be excluded from all CECS and COP majors. A student who is excluded from CECS and COP majors may seek readmission to a major in CECS or COP after at least one full year has passed since exclusion. Readmission is not automatic and is dependent upon a high probability of success after readmission. Any student who is readmitted to the Electrical Engineering major will be subject to all probation conditions that applied at the time of exclusion. Degree Requirements Core Requirements: Basic Level 2 Total Credits Complete all of the following The College of Engineering & Computer Science requires all engineering students to achieve a minimum 2.250 GPA in completing these courses, together with the courses required for the major, technical elective courses, and with the senior design courses. Independent study courses generally do not satisfy major requirements. Complete the following: EGS1006C - Introduction to the Engineering Profession (1) EGN1007C - Engineering Concepts and Methods (1) Core Requirements: Advanced Level 48 Total Credits No Rules Courses Required for the Engineering Core 3 Total Credits Complete all of the following Earn at least 3 credits from the following: STA3032 - Probability and Statistics for Engineers (3) PHY3101 - General Physics Using Calculus III (3) GEP Course: STA 3032 Courses Required for the Major 45 Total Credits Complete all of the following Complete the following: EEL3926L - Junior Design (1) EGN3211 - Engineering Analysis and Computation (3) EEL3004C - Linear Circuits I (3) EEL3123C - Linear Circuits II (3) EEE3307C - Electronics I (4) EEE3342C - Digital Systems (3) EEL3801C - Computer Organization (4) EEL3657 - Linear Control Systems (3) EEL4216 - Fundamentals of Electric Power Systems (3) EEL4742C - Embedded Systems (3) A "C" (2.0) or better is required in this course : EGN 3211, EEL 3004C, EEL 3123C, EEE 3342C, EEL 3801C Junior Level Electives Earn at least 6 credits from the following: EEL3470 - Electromagnetic Fields (3) EEL3552C - Signal Analysis and Analog Communication (4) EEE3350 - Semiconductor Devices (3) EEL3290 - Global Energy Issues (3) Senior Level Electives Earn at least 9 credits from the following: EEL4205 - Electric Machinery (3) EEL4612C - Introduction to Modern and Robust Control (4) EEL4750 - Digital Signal Processing Fundamentals (3) EEL4294 - Introduction to Smart Grid (3) EEL5173 - Linear Systems Theory (3) EEL5185 - System Identification (3) EEL5268 - Communications and Networking for Smart Grid (3) EEL5291 - Distributed Control and Optimization for Smart Grid (3) EEL5255 - Advanced Power Systems Analysis (3) EEL5245 - Power Electronics (3) Restricted Electives 15 Total Credits Technical electives are available in the BSEE program to address specific student interests in a variety of technical areas. Students should consult their academic advisor for the identification of courses that are approved technical electives and the terms when specific courses of this type are to be offered. Technical Electives 15 Total Credits Earn at least 15 credits from the following types of courses: Technical elective courses are to be selected by the student from department approved courses. Capstone Requirements 6 Total Credits Complete the following: EEL4914 - Senior Design I (3) EEL4915L - Senior Design II (3) Grand Total Credits: 71 University of Central Florida About UCF Contact Us Faculty Online Degrees Policies Privacy Notice Public Records Regulations Report a Concern UCF News 4000 Central Florida Blvd. Orlando, Florida, 32816 | 407.823.2000 © University of Central Florida