Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. Public Safety Public Safety right arrow down arrow About right arrow down arrow Contact Us FAQ Executive Team Newsroom right arrow down arrow Blog Posts Safety and Reform News Media Department Policies Safety Services right arrow down arrow Access Control & Physical Security Automated External Defibrillators Background Checks / Finger Prints right arrow down arrow FAQ Bicycle Registration Bearcat Guardian Crime Prevention right arrow down arrow Preventing theft from auto and auto theft Preventing theft and burglary Online and phone scams Housing Rental Scams Keys & Badges Lost & Found Mind What Matters NightRide Special Events right arrow down arrow Event Security Cost Estimate Special Events FAQ Be A Good Neighbor Police right arrow down arrow 911 Communications Leadership Community Engagement Team Crime Statistics Job Shadowing Mission, Vision and Values Bias Free Policing and Contact Cards Records and Reports Recruitment Victim Services right arrow down arrow What Are My Options? Harassment, Stalking and Dating Violence Sex Crimes K-9 Unit Request for Investigation University Threat Assessment Group Reform right arrow down arrow Board of Trustees' Resolution Community Compliance Council right arrow down arrow Meetings, Minutes and Materials Guiding Principles Values Members Resources External Reports and Voluntary Monitorship Clery Act right arrow down arrow Clery Notices Daily Crime Log Campus Security Authorities Annual Security Report Fire Prevention and Protection Units right arrow down arrow Fire Extinguisher Training Fire Drills and Smoke Detectors Areas of Rescue Assistance Fire Log Fire Alarm Construction Standards Emergency Management right arrow down arrow Emergency Procedures Safety Notifications Emergency Plans Bearcat Notifications Home » About UC » Public Safety » Clery Act » Campus Security Authorities Set Navigation title in component Clery Notices Daily Crime Log Campus Security Authorities Annual Security Report Campus Security Authorities The University of Cincinnati encourages everyone to immediately report crimes or suspicious activity to the UC Police Division to help maintain the safest possible environment for students, faculty, staff and visitors. The Clery Act requires the University to compile and publish crime statistics in the Annual Security Report. As part of this obligation, members of the University's community who are considered to be Campus Security Authorities (CSAs) are required to report crime for inclusion as statistics in the University's Annual Security Report. Who is a CSA? "CSA" is a Clery specific term that encompasses certain departments, groups and individual UC employees who have a duty to report crimes they become aware of, as defined by the Clery Act. The law defines a CSA as "an official of an institution who has significant responsibility for student and campus activities, including, but not limited to, student housing, student discipline and campus judicial proceedings." Examples of CSAs include, but are not limited to: Members of police and security departments Deans and directors Title IX coordinators Office of Student Conduct staff Athletic team coaches University housing staff Faculty and staff advisors to student organizations Study abroad faculty and staff Greek life advisors CSAs may also be identified by job function; that is any employee who, by virtue of their job function, has significant responsibility for assisting students or campus activities. Examples would be student advisors or formal or informal student mentors. If you believe that you may qualify as a CSA and have not received training, please contact the Clery Compliance Coordinator at 513-556-4996 or clery@ucmail.uc.edu. The Role of a CSA CSAs should NOT investigate crimes or attempt to determine whether a crime occurred. Rather, a CSA's obligation is to simply report the information as soon as possible. If you are unsure a crime is reportable, please err on the side of caution and notify UCPD immediately. A crime is considered "reportable" when it is brought to your attention. Third party reports of crimes are Clery-reportable. For more information on CSAs, see the Department of Education Clery Handbook, Chapter 4. Reportable Incident Form CSA Training To schedule an in-person CSA training please contact the Clery Compliance Coordinator at 513-556-4996 or clery@ucmail.uc.edu. Online training can found on Success Factors under Clery Security Training Courses. Department of Public Safety 51 West Corry Boulevard Cincinnati, OH 45221-0215 Main Number: 513-556-4900 Background Checks, Keys and IDs: 513-556-4925 UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati Department of Public Safety 51 West Corry Boulevard Cincinnati, OH 45221-0215 Main Number: 513-556-4900 Background Checks, Keys and IDs: 513-556-4925 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top