Skip to main content Temple University Explore Temple’s Schools and Colleges Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Support Temple Temple University Search Site Search Full Menu Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees President History & Traditions Temple Health News & Media Offices Public Information Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Development Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Libraries Earth and Space Science with Teaching Major You are here Home Academics Degrees and Programs Earth and Space Science with Teaching Major Apply Visit Request More Info Earth and Space Science with Teaching Major Admissions Careers, Internships & Opportunities Required Courses Research & Facilities Scholarships & Financial Aid Bachelor of Science in Earth and Space Science with Teaching The Bachelor of Science in Earth and Space Science with Teaching in Temple’s College of Science and Technology is designed for Geology Majors who want to pursue a career in education in science, technology, engineering or math (STEM). The 124-credit-hour interdisciplinary Earth and Space Science with Teaching BS degree is offered through Temple’s TUteach program. Students completing this degree leave with a Pennsylvania Level I teaching certificate. Earth and Space Science with Teaching As an Earth and Space Science Major, you will gain a strong foundation in geology, astronomy and related sciences. You’ll also learn to solve problems by leveraging scientific principles. This program provides a solid foundation in the field of Earth and Space Sciences through classroom instruction, laboratory and field work, and undergraduate scientific research. Over the course of four years, you will be able to apply theoretical and observational frameworks when analyzing geologic and physical data, testing hypotheses and solving problems. communicate through writing and oral presentations with individuals from a wide variety of backgrounds. design and deliver inquiry-based mathematics and science lessons, groups of lessons, and full courses. discuss issues related to earth and space science that impact society and the planet. work with master and mentor teachers to develop good teaching skills. More generally, you will leave knowing how to create a classroom environment of respect that fosters a positive climate for all students to perform to their fullest potential. Temple TUteach TUteach is a collaboration between the College of Science and Technology and the College of Education and Human Development. TUteach integrates a secondary school (grades 7 through 12) mathematics or science teaching track so you can become eligible to take the Praxis certification exam upon graduation. Learn more about the TUteach program degrees. The TUteach program gives Math and Science Majors early, intensive preservice teaching experience, current pedagogical tools, and extensive mentoring and support. The program integrates a secondary school (grades 7 through 12) science or mathematics teaching track so that you can become eligible to take the Pennsylvania Department of Education Praxis certification exam (or the certification exams in states with reciprocal agreements) upon graduation. The program also incorporates the fundamentals of your respective science or mathematics degree. As a TUteach graduate you may pursue a career in private or public school, teach abroad, or enter graduate degree programs in STEM. You could also work in curriculum development and scientific research. The Earth and Space Science with Teaching Major has flexible entry points and allows for internship, scientific research and study abroad experiences. Classes & Curriculum Courses in the Earth and Space Science with Teaching Major are split between foundations of earth and planetary science, lab work, and teacher training. There are also many opportunities to pursue internships both on campus and in the community. Learn more about the Earth and Space Science with Teaching Major curriculum. Related Graduate Degrees Accomplished Teaching MSEd* Education PhD* Geology MS Geoscience PhD Scientific Writing PSM Related Graduate Certificates College Access and Success* Digital Education Leadership* Diversity Leadership* Institutional Effectiveness* Scientific Writing Certificate Student Affairs Leadership* Teaching in Higher Education Certificate* * College of Education TUteach offers degrees in all natural sciences along with multiple options for students interested in mathematics. Majors are Biology with Teaching, Chemistry with Teaching, Earth and Space Science with Teaching, General Science with Teaching, Mathematics with Teaching, Mathematics and Computer Science with Teaching, Mathematics and Technology with Teaching (includes four Engineering courses), and Physics with Teaching. Learn more about each major's academic programs. TUteach students can also take advantage of fieldwork and internship options in the area of STEM Education. Explore TUteach fieldwork and internship experiences. +1 Bachelor-Master Programs The College of Science and Technology offers +1 Accelerated Bachelor-Master Programs. Students can earn a BA or BS and, at the end of the fifth year, an MA or MS. Coursework is completed over five years instead of taking the usual six-year course of study. Learn more about the College of Science and Technology’s +1 Bachelor-Master programs. Earth and Space Science with Teaching Major / Master of Education You can also earn a Earth and Space Science with Teaching Major from the College of Science and Technology and a Master of Education from the College of Education and Human Development. Qualified students can earn a master’s degree in five years, instead of taking the usual six. Learn more about pursuing this accelerated degree. Dual Bachelor-Master Program for International Students International students have the opportunity to earn a bachelor’s degree from their home institution and a graduate degree from Temple over five years. This multidisciplinary program includes undergraduate- and graduate-level coursework at Temple. Students are prepared for professional careers in today’s global economy and job market. Learn more about the College of Science and Technology’s Dual Bachelor-Master Program for international students. 3+4 Accelerated Programs The College of Science and Technology offers 3+4 Accelerated Degree Programs in a seven-year course of study, instead of the usual eight years. Qualifying undergraduate students can obtain the Earth and Space Science with Teaching Major from CST and a Doctor of Medicine in Dentistry from the Kornberg School of Dentistry, Doctor of Podiatric Medicine from the School of Podiatric Medicine, Doctor of Medicine from the Lewis Katz School of Medicine, or Doctor of Pharmacy Medicine from the School of Pharmacy. Learn more about the College of Science and Technology’s 3+4 Accelerated Degree Programs. 3+3 Accelerated Program Qualified students can earn the Earth and Space Science with Teaching Major and a Doctor of Physical Therapy from the College of Public Health over a five-year course of study, instead of taking the usual six years. Learn more about the College of Science and Technology's 3+3 Accelerated Degree Program. Post-Baccalaureate Pre-Health Program The College of Science and Technology Post-Baccalaureate Pre-Health Program is designed for students planning to apply to medical school or pursue other health-related professions. The program offers the following two tracks. The Basic Core in Health Sciences is intended for professionals who need the required science courses to apply to medical school. The Advanced Core in Health Sciences is a program for current students who have met the premedical requirements and who seek advanced science coursework. Both tracks include classes in the Lewis Katz School of Medicine and the College of Science and Technology. Learn more about the College of Science and Technology’s Post-Baccalaureate Pre-Health Program. Tuition & Fees In keeping with Temple’s commitment to access and affordability, the Bachelor of Science offers a competitive level of tuition with multiple opportunities for financial support. Tuition rates are set annually by the university and are affected by multiple factors, including program degree level (undergraduate or graduate), course load (full- or part-time), in-state or out-of-state residency, and more. Learn more about our tuition and fees. These tuition costs apply to the 2021–2022 academic year. Pennsylvania resident: $20,568.00 per year Out-of-state: $33,792.00 per year Our Academic Advisors Center for Academic Advising and Professional Development The Center for Academic Advising and Professional Development in the College of Science and Technology helps you navigate New Student Orientation, advises on specific degree programs and courses, provides post-graduation guidance, and offers peer support. You can also be matched with a qualified student ambassador/ombudsperson who will further assist with degree and academic questions or concerns. Learn more about the Center for Academic Advising and Professional Development's academic advisors and student ambassadors/ombudspersons. Program Contact Kristina Najera, assistant dean of Teacher Education, is the faculty advisor for the Earth and Space Science with Teaching degree. Phone: 215-204-5477 Email: knajera@temple.edu Kenneth Ruff, assistant professor in the Department of Mathematics, is the TUteach advisor for the Earth and Space Science with Teaching degree. Phone: 215-204-3628 Email: kenneth.ruff@temple.edu Student Clubs & Organizations Student clubs and organizations in the College of Science and Technology provide opportunities to meet with peers, network with professionals or scientists in your field of study, and learn about internship opportunities. The College of Science and Technology offers 15 major clubs and 12 prehealth clubs for undergraduate students. Enhance your academic study and social life by participating in a club related to your major or interests. Students pursuing the Earth and Space Science with Teaching Major may be interested in the following clubs and organizations. The Alliance for Minority Participation in STEM works to increase opportunities for students and help them complete their undergraduate and graduate degrees in STEM fields. The Geological Society of Temple University encourages students to explore geological and environmental topics through social experiences with peers. Leadership, Education and Development in Science empowers Philadelphia middle school students to take an interest in STEM through mentor-led science experiments. Explore the full list of College of Science and Technology student clubs and organizations. Study Abroad Opportunities Deepen your understanding of your math, natural science or computer science coursework by experiencing firsthand how such disciplines are studied overseas. Temple’s study abroad program offers College of Science and Technology students opportunities to spend a summer or semester studying in Germany, Italy, Japan and Spain. Learn more about your options for studying away. College of Science and Technology undergraduate students can also take part in international research. These opportunities include the following external scholarship programs. The Benjamin Gilman International Scholarship provides funding for underrepresented students to study in nontraditional destinations such as Australia and Eastern Europe. The Boren Scholarship Summer STEM Initiative offers undergraduate STEM majors opportunities to participate in a language-intensive program. The Indian Institute of Science Education and Research and Temple offer opportunities for students in biology, chemistry and physics programs to work in research groups in Pune, India, over the summer. The Siena Biomedical Research Program provides the opportunity for students to spend their summer working full time in a biotechnology and pathology lab based in Tuscany, Italy. The Sicily Applied Biotechnology Program allows students to learn the biological basis behind the technology used for art conservation and then apply that knowledge in the laboratory and in the field. Learn more about study abroad programs for College of Science and Technology students. Accreditation As a division within Temple University, the College of Science and Technology is accredited by the Middle States Commission on Higher Education. ST-ESTC-BS Additional Program Information Visit College Site View Program Details Go back to AcademicsMore in Earth and Space Science with Teaching Major Admissions Careers, Internships & Opportunities Required Courses Research & Facilities Scholarships & Financial Aid Apply Visit Request More Info Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Calendar Policies Social Media TUportal TUmail Accessibility Careers at Temple Safety & Emergency Information Ethics & Compliance Privacy Statement Professional Licensure Disclosures Follow Temple University Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community. Apply Visit Request More Info