Texas Tech University Directory Raiderlink A-Z Index Financial Aid Menu Search TTU Financial Aid Home Our goal is to make obtaining a college degree within reach by supporting you with financial aid and scholarships programs. Texas Tech relies on a variety of financial aid sources to increase the university's affordability. This may include scholarships, grants, student employment, student loans, and waivers. As a student, please know that you and your family have a dedicated financial aid advisor who can assist you with this process. Find my Advisor Find financial aid information for: Important Withdrawal Dates Students who find it necessary to withdraw from the university before the end of the long semester or summer terms must complete the withdrawal process no later than the dates listed here. Verification Information To provide relief to millions of students and colleges facing challenges and barriers resulting from the ongoing national emergency, The Department of Education is waiving verification of most Free Application for Federal Student Aid/Institutional Student Information Record (FAFSA®/ISIR) information, except for Identity/Statement of Educational Purpose and High School Completion Status under Verification Tracking Groups V4 and V5. This waiver begins May 18, 2022 and applies for the remainder of the 2022-2023 FAFSA processing and verification cycle. However, this does not exempt institutions from reviewing all documents for conflicting information concerning a student's eligibility. All pending/previously received documents are required to be reviewed. V4, V5, 400/401 and conflicting information all need to be reviewed and resolved and were not waived. Financial Aid Application (FAFSA or TASFA) At Texas Tech, eligibility for financial aid is based on financial and household information that is reported on financial aid applications. Since grant funding is limited, priority is given to early applicants. The Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) is available for all US citizens. The FAFSA opens October 1 for the following school year at fafsa.gov and the priority date is January 15. Texas Tech code: 003644. Check out this FAFSA Overview video for more information. The Texas Application for State Financial Aid (TASFA) is available for all non-US citizens who are Texas residents. The TASFA opens October 1 for the following school year at collegeforalltexans.com. The priority date is January 15. Scholarship Application University Competitive Scholarships Merit Scholarships: no additional application Continuing Students Submit Application: Oct. 1 - Feb. 1 www.depts.ttu.edu/scholarships INCOMING FRESHMEN Application Priority Deadline: Dec. 1 applytexas.org Presidential Merit Scholarships are guaranteed to first time freshmen admitted by April 15 with qualifying test scores and class rank. www.depts.ttu.edu/scholarships Incoming Transfer Students No Application Deadline applytexas.org Transfer Merit Scholarships are guaranteed to students who have transcripts and other required documents submitted by: Fall Entry: July 31 Spring Entry: January 5 www.depts.ttu.edu/scholarships/ Graduate Students Graduate Scholarships & Fellowships Check for Additional Requirements Your Texas Tech email is our primary method of communication. We will notify you of any additional requirements which may include: Requirements found on the Double T Dashboard Scholarship Thank You Letter. All university level scholarships require you to show your appreciation to your scholarship donor by writing a thank you letter. Verification. The Department of Education requires us to confirm, or verify, that the information submitted on the FAFSA is accurate through additional documentation for selected students. Students can view requirements and upload documents via the Double T Dashboard. Verification must be complete before financial aid can be disbursed. Once a student gives a family member access, family members can view their requirements (if any) via the Family Dashboard. Requirements found on Raiderlink.ttu.edu: Click on the MyTech tab and choose Documentation Requested under the Student Financial Aid & Scholarships menu. Select the Aid Year, then Student Requirements. Satisfactory Academic Progress. To maintain eligibility to receive financial aid, students must meet Satisfactory Academic Progress. Federal Student Loan Requirements. Students using Federal Direct Student Loans as a tool to help them pay for educational costs must complete Entrance Counseling and the Master Promissory Note at studentloans.gov. Seek Additional Funding Consider other options such as external scholarships, student employment or student loans. If you are experiencing financial hardships within the last year, click here to learn how Texas Tech can assist you further. Raider Relief Fund Raider Relief was developed to support the needs of students and connect them with the most essential resources required to achieve academic goals as a Texas Tech University student. Those needs include but are not limited to: food, housing, financial education, and basic living supplies (clothing, kitchen essentials, toiletries, etc.) The university wants to help students stay enrolled in college and complete their education. Click here to learn more. For Parent PLUS, CAL, or alternative/private loan applications, the priority deadline is July 1, 2021. Applications received after this date may require enrollment in the emergency payment plan to avoid cancelation of classes. Terms and Conditions Students who receive any form of financial aid have terms and conditions to which they must adhere. Students must be in a degree-seeking program to be eligible to receive federal aid. Learn more. Contact TTU Contact Contact TTUContact Contact TTU News News for NewsNews for News Events EventsEvents Financial Aid Like Financial Aid on FacebookLike Financial Aid on Facebook Follow Financial Aid on twitterFollow Financial Aid on twitter Subscribe to Financial Aid on YouTubeSubscribe to Financial Aid on YouTube Follow Financial Aid on InstagramFollow Financial Aid on Instagram Address Texas Tech University | Student Financial Aid & Scholarships | West Hall 301 | P.O. Box 45011, Lubbock, TX 79409 Phone P: 806.742.3681 | F: 806.742.0880 Email finaid.advisor@ttu.edu Texas Tech University 2500 Broadway Lubbock, Texas 79409 806.742.2011 Follow Texas Tech University Like Texas Tech University on FacebookLike Texas Tech University on Facebook Follow Texas Tech University on twitterFollow Texas Tech University on twitter Check in with Texas Tech University on FourSquareCheck in with Texas Tech University on FourSquare Subscribe to Texas Tech University on YouTubeSubscribe to Texas Tech University on YouTube Follow Texas Tech University on FlickrFollow Texas Tech University on Flickr Follow Texas Tech University on InstagramFollow Texas Tech University on Instagram Connect with Texas Tech University on LinkedInConnect with Texas Tech University on LinkedIn Contact Texas Tech UniversityContact Texas Tech University Contact Us Campus Map Jobs @ TTU Emergency Communication Center General Policy Information Public Access to Course Info Energy Management Mental Health Resources Title IX Fraud and Misconduct Hotline Online Institutional Resumes TTU System TTU Health Sciences Center TTUHSC El Paso Angelo State University Midwestern State University Statewide Search State of Texas Texas Homeland Security Texas Veterans Portal Texas CREWS SAO Fraud Reporting Open Records Requests © 2022 Texas Tech University May 26, 2022 12:08 PM Financial Aid Cost to Attend Tech Financial Aid Cost to Attend Tech Back Calculating Costs Financial Aid Cost to Attend Tech Back Cost to Attend Net Cost Calculator Find My Financial Aid & Scholarship Advisor Red Raider Guarantee Study Abroad Types of Aid Financial Aid Types of Aid Back Scholarships Financial Aid Types of Aid Scholarships Back For Continuing Students Incoming Freshmen Incoming Transfer External Scholarship Search Grants Financial Aid Types of Aid Back Federal Pell Grant Federal Supplemental Education Opportunity Grant (SEOG) Iraq and Afghanistan Service Grant (IASG) Children of Fallen Heroes Scholarship Texas Public Education Grant (TPEG) TEXAS Grant TTU Grant Federal TEACH Grant Student Employment Loans Financial Aid Types of Aid Back Federal Direct Loan Federal Direct PLUS Loan for Graduate/Professional Students Federal Direct PLUS Loan for Parents College Access Loan Texas B-On-Time Loan Private Education Loan Student Athletes Requirements & Forms Financial Aid Requirements & Forms Back Verification Forms Financial Aid Requirements & Forms Back Financial Aid Forms Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) Texas Application for State Financial Aid (TASFA) Special Circumstances Financial Aid Requirements & Forms Back Special Circumstances Dependency Change Cost of Attendance Review Satisfactory Academic Progress View/Accept Financial Aid Borrower Resources Financial Aid Borrower Resources Back Loan Options Financial Aid Borrower Resources Loan Options Back Federal Direct Loan Federal Direct PLUS Loan for Graduate/Professional Students Federal Direct PLUS Loan for Parents College Access Loan Texas B-On-Time Loan Private Education Loan Understanding Loans Financial Aid Borrower Resources Understanding Loans Back Borrowed Assistance Financial Awareness Counseling Understanding Interest Leave of Absence or Graduation Grace Period Loan Servicer Common Loan Definition & Glossary Repayment Options Financial Aid Borrower Resources Repayment Options Back Federal Loan Exit Counseling Repaying your Loans Deferment & Forbearance Cancellation & Forgiveness Loan Consolidation Avoiding Default Consumer Information Financial Aid Back Consumer Information Planning and Assessment Policy and Procedure U.S. Department of Education's College Affordability & Transparency Center Contact Us Additional Resources TTU HomeDirectory Raiderlink A-Z Index