Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. Student Activities & Leadership Development SALD right arrow down arrow About Us right arrow down arrow SALD Team Our Approach Our Committees Contact Us UC LEAD right arrow down arrow Camp Bearcats Lead and Grow Grant Leadership Certificate Leadership Week LEAD Modules Career Leader Student Organizations right arrow down arrow Student Activities Board Manage your Organization UC Club Sports CampusLINK Get Engaged | Build Connections Student Organization Awards Student Organization Fair Funding right arrow down arrow University Funding Board Programming right arrow down arrow Workshops Programs & Activities Council FAQs Home » Campus Life » Student Activities and Leadership Development Student Activities and Leadership Development Make an appointment! Find an Organization Explore Campus Events Learn about Student Organization Awards Purposeful Student Engagement: Student Activities & Leadership Development provides a vibrant Bearcat community through advocacy, engagement, education, and inclusion. SALD Leadership Definition Leadership is the continuous growth to be the best version of yourself. Leadership inspires action. Leadership is not only what you give to yourself, but what you give to others. Leadership is giving more than you take. Leadership education within SALD focuses on: developing self-awareness living in alignment with your values contributing positively to your community finding your passion and purpose being authentic We Are Here To Help As a student leader, we know your goal is to cultivate a successful organization. Good thing is, we’re here to help! SALD, Student Activities Board, and the University Funding Board are happy to partner with you on your journey. In our Student Organization Toolkit, you’ll find helpful information about UFB funding facts, event planning checklist, and anything else a student leader or advisor might need. New Here? Are you a new Bearcat?! Visit our Welcome Week page to learn how to Be You, Be Engaged, Be Successful and Be Responsible. You Belong Here! Are you are wondering how you will find a sense of belonging at UC as a student of color, international student, woman, and/or LGBTQ+ person? Check out the student groups you can join and/or our video of students sharing how they engage, persist, succeed and ultimately graduate from the University of Cincinnati. We also have an exciting new community that we invite you to join! Consider AFFIRM, we offer weekly programming, challenges and prizes to help UC feel like home. Visit CampusLINK and search organization categories or type in a keyword to find your community! University of Cincinnati 455 Steger Student Life Center Cincinnati, OH 45221 513-556-6115 UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati University of Cincinnati 455 Steger Student Life Center Cincinnati, OH 45221 513-556-6115 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top