Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. UC News UC News right arrow down arrow UC News Search Topics right arrow down arrow UC Answers #UCtheGood In The News Arts & Culture Science & Tech International Athletics Health College Bound Impact right arrow down arrow #UCtheGood Insights Diversity Experience-Based Learning Next Lives Here Bicentennial COVID-19 Student Experience Colleges right arrow down arrow College of Allied Health Sciences College of Arts & Sciences College of Business Blue Ash College Clermont College College-Conservatory of Music College of Design, Architecture, Art, and Planning College of Education, Criminal Justice, & Human Services College of Engineering and Applied Science Graduate School College of Law College of Medicine College of Nursing College of Pharmacy Units right arrow down arrow Academic Health Center Admissions Alumni Association Board of Trustees Campus Services Equity and Inclusion Hoxworth Human Resources IT@UC Libraries Office of Innovation Office of Research President's Office Provost Public Safety Student Affairs UC Foundation Veteran's Affairs Continuing Education Media Contacts New parking rates, options for University of Cincinnati employees UC Parking Services announces new parking information and rate increase By Adrienne Sedgwick Email AdrienneEmail Adrienne May 18, 2022 Share on facebook Share on Twitter Pin Story Print Story Like Rate increase A new parking permit rate increase will go into effect Friday, July 1, 2022 for UC employees who purchase parking permits. The rate increase, which will help the university meet its capital needs and allow for new customer technology improvements, can be found on the UC Parking Services website. Value Pass option In lieu of purchasing a monthly permit for one of the Uptown campus garages, UC Parking Services offers an additional parking option for faculty and staff who utilize daily parking. The Parking Value Pass offers two options: Value Pass 15 and Value Pass 30. Both allow for a discounted rate over the daily rate and expire four months after purchase. The Value Passes will be good for any parking garage that has daily visitor parking available (but will not be accepted during event parking). For the full list of policies, pricing and how it works, visit the parking page on Bearcats Landing. Get real-time visitor parking availability by utilizing Parking Services' Visitor Tracking and find out when event parking is in place by viewing the Parking Event Calendar. For more questions regarding parking options, please email parking@uc.edu, call (513) 556-2283, or visit UC Parking Services on University of Cincinnati’s main campus in 4 Edwards Center, 51 Corry Boulevard (8 a.m.-4 p.m., Monday-Friday). Tags Parking Related Stories UC hosts Campus Services Showcase on May 5 April 19, 2022 Event: May 5, 2022 11:00 AM Campus Services Showcase May 5, 2022 Pay UC parking fines for a good cause March 29, 2022 Event: April 1, 2022 11:54 AM "Food for Fines” is going virtual April 1-29. To participate, UC parking citation holders should pay their violation fee(s) online by logging into their parking portal’s account, and choosing the “Food for Fines” option. In turn, Parking Services will make a St. George Interfaith Food Pantry donation that equals the citation’s total amount. Donate to Toys for Tots® through UC Parking Services, Nov. 1 -... November 1, 2021 UC Parking Services is partnering with Toys for Tots® to kick off its annual Toys for Tickets campaign this holiday season. Anyone with a UC parking citation is able to participate in the 2021 Toys for Tickets program. Debug Query for this University of Cincinnati 2600 Clifton Ave. Cincinnati, OH 45220 513-556-0000 UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati University of Cincinnati 2600 Clifton Ave. Cincinnati, OH 45220 513-556-0000 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top