Skip To Top Navigation Skip To Main Content Skip To Footer search Loading... Careers Ask-HR Current Employees Search Menu Clemson Main Site Index Events Calendar Campus Map CU Safety Phonebook Careers AskHR Current Employees HR Self Service Kronos Login COVID-19 Resources Employee Assistance Program Benefits and Well-being Tigers at Work Payroll Training and Development Performance Management Staff and Faculty Relations Transition and Separation International Employment Talent Acquisition Employment Verification HR Resource Library HR Policies and Procedures HR Service Teams Clemson Main Site Index Events Calendar Campus Map CU Safety Phonebook Clemson Home page HR Home Employment Verification Employment Verification Are you an employee of Clemson University? Non-Employees Employees If you are with an outside organization and are requesting verification of a Clemson University employee, please submit your request by one of the following methods: Mail: Clemson University Office of Human Resources 108 Perimeter Rd Clemson, SC 29634 ATTN: Employee Records Email: empverifications@clemson.edu Fax: 864.656.4672 Requests are handled in the order they are received. Please use the form below to submit your request. You will receive a confirmation email at the addresss provided, and the employment verification will follow, in most cases, within 24 to 48 hours. Name of Employee Last Four of SSN Employee ID Email Address Verification Type Student Loan Forgiveness Experience Verification Employment Verification for DMV Employment Verification for DSS, Green Card, and Immigration Submit Clemson University supports current and former employees by verifying employment upon request. Requests may relate to credit inquiries, reports, employment references, etc. The University releases employment-related information in accordance with Clemson’s Employment Verification Policy. Inquiries from media sources (e.g., television, radio, newspaper, etc.) are to be directed to Clemson University’s Office of Strategic Communications for official statement. Upon request, the University releases the following general employment information: job title, employment status and dates of employment. With signed authorization from the employee, the University will also release compensation information, the name of the hiring department and the name of the supervisor. The University does not release personal information, including, but not limited to, home address, personal telephone number and social security number. Subpoenas and Freedom of Information Act (FOIA) requests are forwarded to Clemson’s Office of General Counsel. For information specific to FOIA requests, see the Clemson University Policy on Freedom of Information Act Requests. To request verification on jobs offered to international students on an F-1 or J-1 visa, contact the hiring department. Frequently Asked Questions Is a signed release from the employee required in order to process a verification? OHR will release dates of employment and job title without a signed release. If salary information is requested, a signed release from the employee is required. What is the response time for employment verification requests? In most cases, OHR responds within 24 to 48 hours, but, in some cases, the response may take longer. Can OHR provide verbal verification over the phone? If OHR has already completed a written verification for the employee, verbal verification can be provided over the phone. What information can be released regarding current and former employees? Clemson University will release dates of employment, job title, and, with a signed release, salary. If I am a supervisor or director and receive a request for employment verification, what should I do? Send the request to OHR by fax (864-656-4672), Ask HR or mail (Clemson University - Office of Human Resources: 108 Perimeter Rd, Clemson, SC, 29634, ATTN: Employee Records). Is the fax number a secure fax? Yes. Does Clemson accept electronic signatures on requests to release employment information? Yes. CLEMSON HR Administrative Services Building 108 Perimeter Road Clemson, SC 29634-5337 864.656.2000 RESOURCES Careers Benefits Forms Training Security and Safety Report Quick Links Text Version Web Accessibility Ethics/Safety Line Privacy Policy Site Information Contact HR Clemson, SC Ask-HR Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Instagram Copyright © Clemson University. All rights reserved. Clemson University is an AA/EEO employer. Scroll To Top