Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Division of Student Affairs Student Affairs Parents & Guardians Search BC.edu Links Residential Life Menu Main Nav Residential Life Forms Back Back Close About Overview Meet Our Staff Residential Ministry Job Opportunities Student Staff Resident Directors Graduate Student Assistants Resident Assistants Summer Student Staff Contact Related Links Policies Hall Opening and Closing Dates Signature Programs Living in BC Housing Overview First-Year Student Housing Housing Assignments & Room Selection Residence Halls Room and Board Rates Floor Plans & 3D Models Facilities & Furnishings Hall Access Dry Cleaning Service Mail and Package Delivery Laundry Service Hall Openings & Closings BC Clean Spring 2022 Closing Signature Programs Living & Learning Communities Residence Hall Association Recovery Housing The Recovery House Parents & Guardians Summer Housing Related Links Office for Institutional Diversity Housing Appeals Roommate Concerns BC Dining Eagle One ID Card Transportation & Parking Thea Bowman AHANA and Intercultural Center Living Off Campus Overview FAQs Landlord and Agent Info Community Expectations Overview Policies Housing Concerns Forms Forms Close Directory A to Z Listing Search Division of Student Affairs Search BC.edu Find pages or people Search Close Close Apply Visit Give Parents & Guardians BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close Summer Housing Home Living in BC Housing Summer Housing Living in BC Housing First-Year Student Housing Housing Assignments & Room Selection Residence Halls Hall Openings & Closings Signature Programs Parents & Guardians Summer Housing Summer 2022 Housing at Boston College Students meeting one or more of the following criteria are eligible to live in on-campus housing at BC for Summer 2022: Actively enrolled in at least one in-person Summer Session I and/or Summer Session II class (Students enrolled in only one summer session will not be permitted to live in on-campus housing at BC outside of their enrolled summer session) Employed by a BC office in an approved summer position supporting summer residence hall operations The Summer Housing application will be available for students in late April. For questions regarding summer housing eligibility, please email sumhouse@bc.edu so that we can best assist you. The Summer Welcome Center is located in Stayer Hall, where main check-ins will happen for all Summer housing and conferences. The Welcome Center Staff can help many of your needs, including local-area information such as how to find the nearest shopping centers, restaurants, and tourist attractions. Although the Welcome Center is open during nighttime hours throughout most of the Summer, we ask that you please bring all administrative questions to the attention of Professional Staff during normal business hours, 9am-5pm. Contact Info: 617-552-3060 sumhouse@bc.edu Housing Options Summer Housing Dates & Rates Open All Close All Summer Housing Overview Residential Life has a number of options available for BC students. Please click on the tab below that best suites your summer situation. Be sure that you review all of the information in each tab as eligibility requirements, timeliness, accommodation types, application processes, checking in and out times, and rates all vary for each type of housing. Please note, that Boston College is an alcohol-free campus during the non-academic year. Summer at the School of Theology & Ministry and Other Graduate Programs Who is eligible for STM Summer and Other Graduate Program Housing? Only those students who are enrolled in the "Summer at STM" or other graduate programs (UCTC, PSAP) are eligible for this housing. Application Process: Please work with your program coordinator for questions regarding the application process. Accommodation Information: Location, Furnishings, & Dining: All STM and Graduate Housing Summer students are housed in air conditioned single, double, or family occupancy (program dependent) rooms in apartment style housing on Lower Campus. Each room includes a desk, chair, dresser, and bed for each occupant. No dining plan is available through he University in the Summertime, but the dining halls are open. Students may pay with cash, a credit card, or with their Eagle ID Dining/Eagle Bucks. Eagle IDs or coins can also be used to pay for the laundry facilities located in your residence hall. STM Summer students bringing a spouse or additional family members should register for appropriate accommodations and include the names of each family member they are bringing in the comment section of the application. Rates depend on the number of occupants in a room and students are charged for each occupant. Please work with your program coordinator regarding specifics. Checking In/Out and Building Access: Check-In: Students may check in at the Summer Welcome Center, located at Stayer Hall. The Welcome Center is open from 9:00 a.m. to 1:00 a.m. daily. Please do not arrive outside these hours, as there will be no staff available to check you in. If you have an international flight that arrives after 1:00 a.m., please email us at sumhouse@bc.edu to make specific arrangements. Check-Out: All students must check out by 10:00 a.m. on the date of their approved departure at the Summer Welcome Center. Pricing, Payment, Refunds, & Cancellations: Please work with your program coordinator regarding rate information. Bookings and associated charges will be created for all approved students using the dates provided by the program coordinator. All fees will be charged directly to your student account. No refunds or adjustments may be made for cancellations or stays shorter than those applied for unless you have notified sumhouse@bc.edu prior to your approved date of arrival. Undergraduate Students Taking Summer Session Classes at BC/Student Employees at BC Students Taking Summer Session Classes Housing for undergraduate students registered in in-person Summer Session classes at Boston College is broken up into two sessions. The dates of each session can be found on our dates and rates. Housing during both sessions is open to anyone enrolled in undergraduate classes at Boston College. Should the student withraw from their courses, they will no longer be eligible to live in university housing. The student is required to email Res Life Summer Housing at sumhouse@bc.edu immediately to arrange their move out. Those applying for summer session housing should register for their courses prior to applying for housing. Housing can not be granted until the student has registered for courses. Student Employees at BC Summer Housing is available to students employed by a BC office in an approved summer position supporting summer residence hall operations. Should the student's employment be terminated for any reason, that student is no longer eligible to live in university housing. The student is required to email sumhouse@bc.edu immediately to arrange their move out. Housing for undergraduate employees is broken up into two sessions. The dates can be found on our dates and rates section. Application Process: The Summer Housing Application will be available on the Agora Portal in late April. All students applying for Summer Session Housing must confirm that they have read and agree to the Summer Housing Residence Agreement during the application process. If the dates you would like to apply for span both sessions, apply for Summer Sessions 1 & 2, and specify your arrival and departure dates. If you have already applied for Session 1 housing and would like to extend your stay for Session 2, please email sumhouse@bc.edu so that we may work with you to adjust your application. Accomodation Information: Location, Furnishings, and Dining: Students are housed in double occupancy rooms in the Reservoir Apartments. Double occupancy rooms mean each student will have a roommate. Students with approved housing accomodations through Disability Services will indicate such on their application and all approved housing accomodations will be met. To register through Disability Services for new accomodations, please click here. All student housing will be in air-conditioned apartments with living rooms and kitchens. Please note that cooking utensils and dinnerware are not provided. Furnishings in these rooms include: a desk, study chair, dresser, and bed for each occupant. Students are responsible for providing their own linens and lamp for rooms. The facilities also include a vending area and laundry room that accept either the Eagle BC ID card or coins. Dining facilities are available, however, there is no summer meal plan offered. Students might find it convenient to add Dining and/or Eagle Bucks to their Eagle BC ID card account to use at the dining halls. Check-Out and Check-In: Check In: All students granted Summer Session 1 Housing must check out from their Spring semester residence and check into their new residence according to the transition schedule. Please email sumhouse@bc.edu for questions regarding the transition schedule. All students granted housing for Summer Session 2 classes may check in at the Summer Welcome Center in Stayer Hall between 10:00 a.m. and 4:00 p.m. on the last day of Session 1 housing. Check-Out: All students are required to check out at the Summer Welcome Center no later than 10:00 a.m. on the last day of their last Summer Session course. Refer to our dates and rates to see the updated check out dates. Improper or late check out, failure to check out, excessive trash, or room damage will result in fines and University disciplinary action. Exceptions: No expections are made to the check in or check out dates. The maintenance of the residence halls is carefully and densely scheduled and cannot be changed without causing significant conflicts. Please be sure to carefully review our dates and rates when planning travel and vacation around and during Summer Housing. Pricing, Payment, Refunds, and Cancellations: See our dates and rates for the most up to date rate information. Bookings and associated charges will be created for all approved applications using the dates provided in the application. All fees will be charged directly to your student account. No refunds or adjustments may be made for cancellations or stays shorter than those applied for unless you have canceled your application via "My ResLife" or have notified sumhouse@bc.edu prior to your approved date of arrival. Perspective External Groups The Boston College Event Management Department handles all arrangements for external groups who visit campus during the Summer time. The Event Management Department website has detailed information on all aspects of planning your stay at Boston College from accommodation to catering options. Please review their website to plan your stay at Boston College. Dates & Deadlines 2022 Summer Sessions Application Due Start Date End Date Summer Session Housing for Session 1 BC Student Summer Employee Housing (working at BC) May 9 May 18 June 29 Summer Session Housing for Session 2 Classes only BC Student Summer Employee Housing (working at BC) - arriving on or after June 30 June 6 June 30 August 12 Summer Session Housing for Sessions 1 and 2 May 9 May 18 August 12 Accomodation Rates (Updated for Summer 2022) Summer Housing is charged on a night to night basis, based on expected arrival and departure from student applications. Failure to properly check in and out at the Welcome Center in Stayer may result in additional charges being added to student accounts. Student rates are for double occupancy rooms with a direct roommate (unless otherwise noted). 2022 Summer Session Rate Per Night Housing Location Summer Session Classes and Student Employee Housing BC Summer Session 1 and 2 $30.00 Reservoir Apts BC Summer Employee Session 1 and 2 $30.00 Reservoir Apts Back To Top Back To Top Residential Life Maloney Hall 413 617-552-3060 reslife@bc.edu About Living in BC Housing Living Off Campus Community Expectations Get Answers Division of Student Affairs Division of Student Affairs BAIC BC Bands Business Service Center Career Center Counseling Services Graduate Student Life Health Promotion Health Services Residential Life Robsham Theater Student Conduct Student Involvement Student Outreach & Support Women’s Center Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College