Skip to main content Toggle subitems Main navigation Meet Princeton Toggle sub-items In Service of Humanity Facts & Figures History Honors & Awards Contact Us Visit Us Our Faculty Our Students Our Alumni Our Staff Our Leadership Academic Freedom and Free Expression Academics Toggle sub-items Studying at Princeton Library Areas of Study Humanities Social Sciences Engineering Natural Sciences Advising Academic Calendar Course Tools Learning Abroad Career Development Continuing Education Innovative Learning Research Toggle sub-items Engineering & Applied Science Humanities Natural Sciences Social Sciences Interdisciplinary Approach Dean for Research Office External Partnerships Facilities & Labs One Community Toggle sub-items Lifelong Connections Student Life Arts & Culture Athletics Living in Princeton, N.J. Housing & Dining Activities & Organizations Cultural & Affinity Groups Health & Wellness Religious Life Serving the Public Good Families Admission & Aid Toggle sub-items Affordable for All About Financial Aid Current Undergraduate Financial Aid Undergraduate Admission Graduate Admission For International Students Utility menu News Events Work at Princeton Services & Resources Work-Life Balance Links for Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Giving Search Sites & People × Share on Facebook Share on Twitter Share on LinkedIn Email Print Effron Center for the Study of America established at Princeton through a major gift to the Venture Forward campaign by Advancement Communications Nov. 15, 2021, 10:06 a.m. For over 75 years, Princeton’s Program in American Studies has supported teaching and research on America from diverse interdisciplinary perspectives. Now, a major gift to the University’s Venture Forward campaign from Blair Effron ’84 and Cheryl Effron will expand the program into the Effron Center for the Study of America. Clockwise from top left: William A. Gleason, the Hughes-Rogers Professor of English and American Studies, and Aisha Beliso-De Jesús, professor of American studies and director of the programs in American studies, Asian American studies and Latino studies, facilitate discussion at a community forum that brought students and faculty together to consider key issues in America today. Diet for a Small Planet author Frances Moore Lappé links democracy and sustainability in the keynote address at the 2019 conference “Considering the Counterculture.” Student and faculty participants in “Col(LAB) 2.0: Strange Life: Beauty, Race, & War” — including, at right, Allison Carruth, professor of American studies and the High Meadows Environmental Institute — prepare lactic acid serums in the Andlinger Center for Energy and the Environment. Students in the course “American Agrarians” complement textual analysis and seminar discussion with learning how to tap maple trees for sap, and sharpening skills on a two-person crosscut saw. In a visit to the Princeton University Library Special Collections, students in the spring 2019 course “America Then and Now” examine early colonial texts. All photos by Sarah Malone except photos from "American Agrarians" by Tessa Lowinske Desmond Throughout its history, the program has brought students together with scholars and public figures from across the humanities, arts and social sciences to explore broad research questions around topics like migration, colonization, race, art, culture, history, language, law and public policy, and gender and sexuality, as they relate to America. The establishment of the center realizes Princeton’s vision for the future of American studies as articulated in the 2016 report of the Task Force on American Studies, and in subsequent planning by faculty and administrators. The Effron Center will enable Princeton to make crucial investments in people — faculty, visitors, fellows — to support emerging areas of American studies scholarship and provide an expanded roster of curricular offerings. “This visionary gift affirms the importance of exploring American history and identity through multiple perspectives, and forges strong new links between the humanities and the social sciences,” said President Christopher L. Eisgruber. “We are grateful to Blair and Cheryl for their commitment to this Center, which will facilitate innovative interdisciplinary research and teaching about some of the most urgent questions facing America today.” Aisha M. Beliso-De Jesús, director of the Program in American Studies and professor of American studies, will lead the center. “The creation of this center strengthens Princeton’s voice in the global dialogue on the complex and diverse meanings of what it means to be America, and American,” said Beliso-De Jesús. “The center creates a collaborative hub where scholarship and teaching in many fields of study converge to illuminate and engage with the multiple strands of American viewpoints, politics, identities, histories and practice.” The Effron Center for the Study of America offers race and ethnicity studies — including Asian American, Latino, Native American and Indigenous, and American Jewish studies — in a holistic context of partnerships across the University, including with Princeton’s African American studies department, programs in gender and sexuality studies, English, history, law, religion, environmental studies, and the Lewis Center for the Arts. “The center will provide a space for intellectual discussions to produce transformative research and teaching that is guided by principles of civil rights, freedom, social justice and inclusion,” said Beliso-De Jesús. The center’s undergraduate certificate tracks in Asian American and Latino studies, which complement the original American studies track, offer students opportunities for detailed focus on particular strands of American identity and how they relate to other narratives of America. “This is an extraordinary opportunity for a flourishing academic program to expand the range and depth of its research and teaching agenda and to foster greater interdisciplinary collaboration,” said Gene A. Jarrett, Dean of the Faculty and the William S. Tod Professor of English. University trustee and alumni co-chair of the Venture Forward campaign committee Blair Effron ’84 and his wife Cheryl Effron devote significant philanthropic and volunteer support to nonprofits that focus on social services, education, the arts, and civic engagement. Their previous support of Princeton has included a major gift naming the Effron Music Building. Blair Effron is a co-founder and partner of Centerview Partners, an independent investment banking and advisory firm. He serves on the boards of the Metropolitan Museum of Art, Lincoln Center for the Performing Arts, New Visions for Public Schools, and the Council on Foreign Relations. He received an A.B. in history at Princeton and holds an MBA from Columbia University. Cheryl Cohen Effron is a real estate developer known for her re-development of under-utilized buildings including the Falchi Building and The Factory in Long Island City, and Chelsea Market in Manhattan. She is past board president of the Dalton School (NYC) and on the boards of the Brookings Institution, Greater NY, the Charles H. Revson Foundation, International Rescue Committee, Friends of the High Line, the American Museum of Natural History, the Markle Foundation and Rethink Food. She is also a senior advisor to Tishman Speyer Properties. Their gift establishing the Effron Center for the Study of America represents a key milestone in Venture Forward, The Princeton Campaign, an engagement and fundraising campaign dedicated to meeting today’s complex challenges and those of the future. The Venture Forward campaign has three goals: seeking critical philanthropic support for the University’s highest strategic priorities, which include American studies; building community and alumni engagement; and sharing Princeton’s defining principles and their impact on the world. The campaign is focused on Princeton University’s strengths in the liberal arts, pushing the bounds of knowledge across disciplines, and collaborating to champion inclusion, the humanities, science, art, public policy and technology. “The establishment of the Effron Center exemplifies the spirit of Venture Forward,” said Provost Debbie Prentice. “It creates a space for daring to ask questions. It’s an invitation to possibility.” Related Stories A Year in Review: 2021 Read more Princeton's Mellon Fellows are bringing fresh perspectives to research and teaching in architecture, urbanism and the humanities Read more Teaching with Special Collections: ‘America Then and Now’ Read more ‘Japanese/America’ symposium explores art, literature, place, music Read more Eric and Wendy Schmidt endow new professorship of Indigenous studies at Princeton Read more New partnerships, programs and positions are part of Princeton’s ongoing commitment to combat systemic racism Read more Intersecting ideas: Cultural studies postdoctoral fellows bring new courses to campus Read more View All News Contact links Contact Us Accessibility Advanced People Search Media Inquiries Website Feedback Visiting links Plan a Visit Maps & Shuttles Varsity Athletics Giving to Princeton Academic links Library Academic Calendar Student Links Faculty & Staff Links Footer social media Facebook Twitter Instagram Snapchat LinkedIn YouTube Social Media Directory Equal Opportunity and Nondiscrimination at Princeton University: Princeton University believes that commitment to principles of fairness and respect for all is favorable to the free and open exchange of ideas, and the University seeks to reach out as widely as possible in order to attract the ablest individuals as students, faculty, and staff. In applying this policy, the University is committed to nondiscrimination on the basis of personal beliefs or characteristics such as political views, religion, national or ethnic origin, race, color, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity or expression, pregnancy, age, marital or domestic partnership status, veteran status, disability, genetic information and/or other characteristics protected by applicable law in any phase of its education or employment programs or activities. In addition, pursuant to Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 and supporting regulations, Princeton does not discriminate on the basis of sex in the education programs or activities that it operates; this extends to admission and employment. Inquiries about the application of Title IX and its supporting regulations may be directed to the Assistant Secretary for Civil Rights, Office for Civil Rights, U.S. Department of Education or to the University's Sexual Misconduct/Title IX Coordinator. See Princeton’s full Equal Opportunity Policy and Nondiscrimination Statement. Princeton University Princeton, NJ 08544 Operator: (609) 258-3000 © 2022 The Trustees of Princeton University Subfooter links Copyright Infringement Privacy Notice