Skip to site alert. Skip to content Columbia School of Nursing Students Alumni Faculty Contact Us Search Make a Gift About Us About Us Message From the Dean Leadership Faculty Our Culture News Events Facts and Figures Accreditation Make a Gift Contact Us Our Culture Diversity and Cultural Affairs Civility Statement Social Justice and Health Equity and Anti-Racism Commitment Sustainability Our History Jonas Partnership Join Our Team Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Learn about our commitment to social justice and health equality and anti-racism. View Our Progress Academics Academics A Columbia Nursing Education Admissions at a Glance Academic Programs Courses Financial Aid Continuing Nursing Education Helene Fuld Health Trust Simulation Center Academic Programs Doctor of Nursing Practice Doctor of Nursing Practice in Nurse Anesthesia Doctor of Philosophy Masters Direct Entry Program For Non-Nurses Masters in Advanced Clinical Management and Leadership Online Prerequisites for Entry to Nursing Transgender Non-Binary (Trans NB) Health Care for Advance Practice Nurses and PAs Palliative Care Throughout the Lifespan for Advanced Practice Registered Nurses (APRNs) Admissions at a Glance Learn more about Admissions at Columbia Nursing, including important dates and deadlines, and how to apply to all of our programs. Learn More About Admissions Research Research Research Faculty and Postdoctoral Fellows Research Areas of Focus Research Centers and Programs Training Programs Research Resources Research Centers and Programs Center for Health Policy Center for Improving Palliative Care for Vulnerable Adults with MCC Precision in Symptom Self-Management Center Center for Healthcare Delivery Research and Innovations Center for Research on People of Color Center for Sexual and Gender Minority Health Research Linking to Improve Nursing Knowledge Research Areas of Focus Explore the research areas of focus conducted by our faculty, postdocs, and students. View Our Focus Areas Patient Care Global Health Global Health Global Opportunities for Students Global Research International Visitors WHO Collaborating Center Contact Global Opportunities for Students Global opportunities for clinical practicum and research may be available for MDE and doctoral students at Columbia Nursing. Get More Information You are here Home > Academics > A Columbia Nursing Education A Columbia Nursing Education Admissions at a Glance Academic Programs Courses Financial Aid Continuing Nursing Education Helene Fuld Health Trust Simulation Center A Columbia Nursing Education Prepare to be the next generation of clinicians, researchers, and nurse leaders ignite_your_future._be_a_columbia_nurse. Educational Excellence We prepare students to excel as clinicians, researchers, and nurse leaders. Our reputation for innovation and excellence attracts highly motivated students eager to apply the knowledge they acquire and practice at the highest level of the profession. Learn more about our academics. Research Opportunities Columbia University School of Nursing is consistently among the highest recipients of the National Institutes of Health funding on a per capita basis among nursing schools. Students learn from renowned faculty in a range of research areas. Research conducted by our faculty and students helps to shape the delivery of care in the United States and around the world. Learn more about our research opportunities. Clinical Practice Learning extends beyond the classroom. Students gain valuable hands-on experience through clinical rotations at our faculty practice, the ColumbiaDoctors Primary Care Nurse Practitioner Group, which offers comprehensive integrated services in two New York City locations and through house call visits in upper Manhattan. Additionally, we have partnerships with more than 200 practice sites throughout New York City. Learn more about our clinical practice. State-of-the-Art Facilities and Simulation Center Our building offers an ultramodern learning environment, designed to foster collaboration and interchange among students and faculty. It includes the 16,000 sq. ft., two-story Helene Fuld Health Trust Simulation Center, with the most sophisticated technology available in clinical simulation education today. The center promotes patient safety and allows students to master critical thinking, clinical judgment, communication, and practice skills in a safe environment. Learn more about our state-of-the-art facilities and simulation center. Global Health Program Columbia Nursing is a Pan American Health Organization/World Health Organization Collaborating Center for Advanced Practice Nursing. We have research and programmatic partnerships with institutions across the globe, and our students have an opportunity to complete a four to six week clinical practicum at sites in Asia, Africa, the Caribbean, Latin America, and Europe. Learn more about our global health program. Interprofessional Collaboration Columbia Nursing is part of the Columbia University Irving Medical Center (CUIMC), which also includes the Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons, the Mailman School of Public Health, and the College of Dental Medicine. Situated on a 20-acre campus in Northern Manhattan, CUIMC provides global leadership in scientific research, health and medical education, and patient care. Commitment to Health Equity and Diversity Our school has a history of standing against barriers to health that are based on race or ethnicity; religion; socioeconomic status; gender; age; mental health; cognitive, sensory, or physical disabilities; sexual orientation or gender identity. This legacy informs every aspect of Columbia Nursing, from educational and research programs to clinical practice to administrative and operational strategies to policies. We are also committed to supporting faculty and a student body as diverse as the patients we serve. Learn more about our commitment to health equity and diversity. What is it like to be a student at Columbia Nursing? View Our Student Profiles View Our Student Profiles Columbia University Irving Medical Center NewYork-Presbyterian ColumbiaDoctors About Us Academics Research Patient Care Global Health Contact Us Students Alumni Intranet Careers Columbia University School of Nursing 560 West 168th Street New York, NY 10032 United States Follow Us Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube LinkedIn Back to top