Accessibility Options: Skip to Content Skip to Search Skip to footer Office of Disability Services Request Assistance 305-284-2374 Display: Default High Contrast University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Apply About UM Schools School of Architecture College of Arts & Sciences Miami Herbert Business School School of Communication School of Education & Human Development College of Engineering School of Law Rosenstiel School of Marine & Atmospheric Science Miller School of Medicine Frost School of Music School of Nursing & Health Studies The Graduate School Division of Continuing & International Education Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Search Tools People Search Class Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Search UM (Mobile) Apply Apply About UM Schools Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Academics Admissions Student Life Research UHealth Athletics Tools Popular Links Coronavirus Information News@TheU People Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement Home Search Working at the U Benefits and Wellness About HR Careers Health Care Positions UM employees - internal applicants (non-students) Staff positions - external applicants Faculty positions - external applicants Temporary/Per Diem Staff Positions FAQs Working at the U Benefits and Wellness About HR Careers Search Working at the U Benefits and Wellness About HR Careers Health Care Positions UM employees - internal applicants (non-students) Staff positions - external applicants Faculty positions - external applicants Temporary/Per Diem Staff Positions FAQs Home Careers AAA Explore your future at the U UHealth Employee Referral Program We are a team America’s Best Employers We transform lives We are leaders We are resilient Read more. > Read more > Read more. > Read more > Learn more > Learn more > UHealth Employee Referral Program We are a team America’s Best Employers We transform lives We are leaders We are resilient Join our team The University of Miami is a vibrant and diverse community focused on education and learning, the discovery of new knowledge, and service to the South Florida region and beyond. We embrace and embody an inclusive culture where faculty and staff feel valued and have the opportunity to add value, making the U a great place to pursue your passions and grow your career. Health Care Careers Staff Positions Current UM Faculty and Staff Faculty Positions Job Fairs COVID and Influenza (Flu) Vaccine To ensure the safety of our workforce, the University of Miami / Miller School of Medicine / UHealth System requires that all faculty and staff receive influenza (flu) and COVID-19 vaccinations or request an applicable exemption prior to the hire date. COVID and Influenza (Flu) Vaccine To ensure the safety of our workforce, the University of Miami / Miller School of Medicine / UHealth System requires that all faculty and staff receive influenza (flu) and COVID-19 vaccinations or request an applicable exemption prior to the hire date. Learning About the U Get a feel for life in and around Miami. Learn more about neighborhoods and school systems, explore events for art enthusiastics, outdoor adventure seekers and sports fans, and discover the hidden treasures of South Florida. Learn more Service awards recognize longtime faculty and staff members Honoring employees who have reached a milestone of 25, 30, 35, 40, 45, 50, and 55 years of service between January 1, 2021, and May 31, 2022, the Long Service Awards Ceremony celebrated those who have dedicated many years to the University of Miami. Watch Commitment to collaboration “I’ve always been around sports. I love the ’Canes and football, and working here has made me love it even more.” -Jasmin Rocha, Video Assistant Meet the team We are one U "I think that it is important for students and their families to see a united university when they arrive—One U, if you will. While we all have different roles to play at UM, ultimately we are all working toward the same goal of helping students graduate and live their future dreams.” -Karen Beckett, University Registrar Learn more about your application Making a difference “It’s very nice to be recognized for the work I do. I get to help people in the most difficult time in their lives, and having the ability to make even small impact on their families is priceless.” —Elise James, LCSW, Sylvester Comprehensive Cancer Center at the University of Miami Miller School of Medicine and Find your passion Doing the right thing “The biggest difference here is that our leadership empowers everybody to do what's right for the patients—and that sometimes means to go out of your way to do something that perhaps you wouldn't be able to do somewhere else.” - Bryant Barajas, manager for patient access See behind the scenes Advancing together There is something wonderful about the idea that you can help change the world not just by giving to the U, but by giving through the U. -Josh Friedman, senior vice president for development and alumni relations Meet Josh Friedman Essential support I am proud to work at the U because of the brilliant minds who are working to make our world a better place. As part of UMIT, I ensure that everyone at the Rosenstiel School of Marine and Atmospheric Science (RSMAS) has the tools they need to facilitate their work and research. -Christopher Gomez, RSMAS UMIT Explore IT careers Equal Opportunity/ADA Job Fairs UM Culture Professional Development University of Miami Coral Gables, FL 33124 305-284-2211 Human Resources Coral Gables, FL 33124 Gables/RSMAS: 305-284-3798 Gables/RSMAS: 305-284-3798 Miller School: 305-243-6482 Miller School: 305-243-6482 Benefits and Payroll (Total Rewards) Representative: 305-284-3004 Benefits and Payroll (Total Rewards) Representative: 305-284-3004 Fax: 305-284-8035 Tools & Resources About UM Workday myUM Kronos Performance Management UM Culture Business Development Program EO/Employment Laws Equal Opportunity/ADA UM Network Division of Business and Finance UHealth Hurricane Sports 'Cane Watch Title IX & Gender Equity Visit Campus Map Parking & Transportation Connect with Life@theU social-facebook social-twitter social-instagram Copyright: 2022 University of Miami. All Rights Reserved. Emergency Information Privacy Statement & Legal Notices