Alert By continuing to use this site, you agree to the use of cookies in accordance with our privacy policy. Dismiss Stay Safe The official source of public health information for Syracuse University Skip to Content Toggle menu Search the University Search the University Game Changers Tomorrow's Leaders Real-World Experience Opportunities for All Orange Community Game Changers Tomorrow's Leaders Real-World Experience Opportunities for All Orange Community Home Where Game Changers Rise Where Game Changers Rise Innovation, Opportunity, Impact For the game changer, the risk taker, the opinion shaper, the trail blazer. Syracuse University is where their journey begins. It’s where they seize opportunities, expand knowledge and nurture a bold, boundless spirit. And when it comes to making an impact, there’s no stopping them. Because once you’re Orange, you’re forever Orange. Developing the Leaders of Tomorrow Through a dynamic blend of the liberal arts and professional studies programs, we prepare our students for any career imaginable, offering personalized academic pathways that deepen knowledge and support discovery on campus and around the world. Discover Our Impact Providing Real-World Experience Our students step into a global classroom and map new routes to discovery. Through hands-on research and learning experiences, they gain professional skills, expand their views and develop a holistic perspective that lasts a lifetime. Explore Immersive Experiences Creating Opportunities for All Our students are part of a global community where they pursue passions, gain knowledge and fulfill their potential. We embrace inclusivity and provide access to opportunities and experiences through scholarships, fellowships and multicultural experiences that empower students to achieve their goals. Meet Our Community Connecting a Proud Community Being Orange creates a lifelong connection to a worldwide network of innovators and creative solution-finders among more than 260,000 alumni—not to mention millions of fans, community members and students of all ages whose lives have been enriched by Syracuse University. Get to Know Our Network PopularToggle dropdown Academic Calendar Campus Map Careers Libraries Majors and Minors Visit and Tour A-ZToggle dropdown Academic Departments Schools and Colleges Sitemap Search ContactToggle dropdown Admissions Financial Aid Emergency Contacts Human Resources Make a Gift LoginToggle dropdown MySlice Blackboard SUMail Syracuse University 900 South Crouse Ave. Syracuse, NY 13244 Phone: +1.315.443.1870 Like Syracuse on Facebook Follow Syracuse on Twitter Subscribe to Syracuse on YouTube Follow Syracuse on Instagram © Syracuse University. Knowledge crowns those who seek her. Accessibility Accreditation Emergencies Privacy