Skip to main content Temple University Explore Temple’s Schools and Colleges Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Support Temple Temple University Search Site Search Full Menu Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees President History & Traditions Temple Health News & Media Offices Public Information Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Development Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Libraries Medical & Community Support You are here Home About News & Media Temple's Impact Medical & Community Support Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Preferred Name Use Pronoun Use and Gender Identity Temple Thought Leaders Housing & Dining Health & Wellness COVID-19: Keeping Our Community Safe & Healthy COVID-19 FAQ Testing & Tracing Vaccines Academics, Tuition & Aid Temple HEERF III Grant Student Housing & On-campus Life Work-life for Faculty & Staff Faculty Teaching Information Return Scenario Planning Temple Community Health Advisory Group University Communication Vaccination Rates and Active COVID-19 Cases at Temple University International Campuses and Programs City Life Philadelphia Visiting Temple Accommodations Dining Options Religious Services Information FAQs Safety Main Campus and Philadelphia Safety FAQ Contact Temple RAVE Temple Guardian App Community Programs and Research University News Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Campus Life Arts and Culture Clubs and Organizations Housing, Dining and OWLcards Parking and Transportation Safety Student Banking Student Centers Wireless, Computers and Phone Academics Advising and Academic Support Courses and Calendars International Students Libraries Registration, Grades and Books Schools and Colleges Health and Wellness Athletics and Fitness Health and Counseling Tuition and Financial Aid Financial Aid Tuition and Billing Careers and Internships Career Center Internships Student Jobs Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees Presidential Search President University Leadership Board of Trustees Updates Past Presidents 2019 State of the University History & Traditions Russell Conwell Temple Traditions Acres of Diamonds Honorary Degrees Past Honorary Degree Recipients Temple Health News & Media Media Mentions Temple University Wallpapers Temple's Impact Career in Charitable Change Fueled by Temple Experiences Advancing Breast Cancer Research Leaders in HIV Research 21st-century Learning Temple Firsts Paving the Way Medical & Community Support Student Support Contact members of Strategic Marketing and Communications Offices Public Information Facts About Temple Faculty & Staff Resources Working at Temple Calendars and Time Off Holiday Schedule Careers at Temple Human Resources Performance and Training Business Services Catering Exception Policy Double Tree Catering/ Conferences Contact Frequently Asked Questions Trademark Licensing Policy Corporate Responsibility Logo and Graphics Guide Guidelines for Trademark Use The Student, Faculty and Staff Guide to Ordering Licensed Temple Products Becoming Licensed Trademark and Licensing FAQ Where to Buy Temple Gear University-approved Hotels Club Quarters DoubleTree Hotel Hilton Garden Inn Hilton Philadelphia at Penn's Landing Loews Hotel Sonesta Philadelphia The Conwell Inn Campus Services Computers, Email and Phones Conferences and Meetings Health Sciences Center Form Main Campus Meeting Space Howard Gittis Student Center Form Documents & Insurance Facilities and Space ID Cards Parking and Transportation Faculty Resources Calendars, Schedules and Grades Courses and Curricula Instructional Resources Faculty Senate and News Research and Grants Finance and Travel Accounting and Budget Employee Banking and Finance Tuition Remission Travel and Expenses Wellness and Safety Fitness and Health Safety and Alerts Campus Development Frequently Asked Questions Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Data Integrity and Data Verification Unit In-scope Materials Quick Reference Guide Rankings Data Overview and Updates Additional Resources Frequently Asked Questions FAQ: Fox School of Business MBA rankings Enterprise Risk Management Key Terms and Definitions Helpline Frequently Asked Questions Resources Compliance With the Four Pillars Who We Are Libraries Charles Library Our dedication extends far beyond campus. Temple is grounded in our desire to serve. We quickly came together to treat patients, innovate ideas and forge pathways toward a better understanding of the virus. We actively pursue resources and services for our neighbors and community members. Temple’s reach is defined by our commitment to all. Temple University Hospital Medical Staff Referred to by WHYY as “ground zero” for the pandemic in Philadelphia, Temple University Hospital houses the most COVID-19 patients in the city, and its staff are serving on the front line of the pandemic. In March 2020, the hospital quickly converted its Esther K. Boyer Pavilion—which typically is an administrative building—into the space where patients with the virus receive the critical care they need from the hospital’s medical teams. Temple University Hospital medical doctors and nurses not only provide necessary patient care, they also serve as thought leaders in research and, at times, as friends and family members for patients. Dr. Gerard Criner, director of the Temple Lung Center and chair and professor of thoracic medicine and surgery in the Lewis Katz School of Medicine, is the principal investigator for the first U.S. clinical trial for an experimental therapy treatment for the virus. A recent Philadelphia Magazine article highlighted a typical day for Criner at the hospital, noting that he spends 18 hours on his rounds and studying critical data. In his 50 years at Temple, [Criner] says he’s never seen this many trials launch simultaneously in such a short period of time.” Philadelphia Magazine In an interview with WHYY, Francine Frezghi, president of the Temple University Hospital Nurses Association, remarked that nurses often step in as support systems for patients whose families cannot be with them due to restrictions, providing the emotional care patients need in addition to healthcare. In many cases, the hospital’s nurses are the only visitors patients can see. Read and listen to news coverage on Temple University Hospital doctors and staff. WHYY The Philadelphia Inquirer Philadelphia Magazine Temple Transforms the Liacouras Center In March, we announced plans to transition the university’s Liacouras Center into a temporary facility—Temporary Surge Facility at the Liacouras Center—to aid the city’s hospitals as the number of patients who needed treatment increased. Through the collaboration of Temple staff, Spectra Venue Management and the Philadelphia Office of Emergency Management officials, the first patients were admitted for treatment in April. It housed patients over 18 who were in the final stages of their recovery. Temple stepped up big time. [It] makes me very emotional to think about how Temple just stepped up when we asked them for the first time.” Jim Kenney, mayor of Philadelphia, speaking to NPR Read National Public Radio’s (NPR) interview with Mayor Kenney. NPR Serving Our City See how the Liacouras Center—Temple’s multipurpose venue that typically hosts campus events—became a medical facility. Photo Gallery View slideshow as list Close 1/7 2/7 3/7 4/7 5/7 6/7 7/7 Public Health Efforts Temple’s College of Public Health faculty experts join alumni working on the front lines for a series of panel sessions called Beyond the Biology. Together, panel participants explore COVID-19 beyond the symptoms—how it impacts health socially, emotionally, mentally and physically. People are encouraged to submit questions and comments for experts to address in the sessions. Session topics include how the pandemic has impacted health delivery, people with developmental disabilities, mental health and more. All sessions are available to the public. Explore the College of Public Health’s information sessions. Register and Watch Krys Johnson, assistant professor of epidemiology and biostatistics in the College of Public Health, shared her expertise about how COVID-19 impacts population health in our communities and how the public perceives health guidelines. In April, she was interviewed by 6ABC Action News anchor Tamala Edwards to discuss contact tracing for the virus, which involves tracking and alerting individuals who have been exposed. She notes that contact tracing helps the city identify when reopenings can occur based on the number of cases per 100,000 people. In May, Johnson spoke to Fortune Magazine and explained why public health recommendations may change and evolve over time, often creating a sense of confusion among populations. Since so little was known about the virus at the start of the pandemic, Johnson stated that many scientists stress the importance of reducing risk. Watch and read interviews featuring Johnson. 6ABC Action News Fortune Magazine Research and Relief Efforts Temple is actively involved in research and relief efforts that push us further toward understanding the virus and providing support for the well-being of everyone. The entire Temple community came together to create solutions, offer resources and share knowledge to expand awareness and alleviate impact. Medical Support One of Pennsylvania’s first COVID-19 testing sites was housed in Temple’s Ambler Campus. Established as a drive-thru site in the campus’s main parking lot, it allowed access to testing for first responders and health professionals. Read more about the Ambler testing site. David Lebo, professor of pharmaceutical sciences and director of Current Good Manufacturing Processes in Temple’s School of Pharmacy, spearheaded the school’s initiative to create 450 gallons of hand sanitizer to donate to Temple University Hospital at a time when it was in low supply and needed for protection against the virus. Read more about this initiative. University faculty, students and staff formed a 57-person task force that has worked tirelessly from the early days of the pandemic to create personal protection equipment (PPE)—face shields and ventilator parts—to protect healthcare workers against the virus. Housed at the College of Engineering, the team comprises individuals from across the campus community, including the College of Science and Technology, Tyler School of Art and Architecture, Temple Libraries, Student Health Services, Office for the Vice President for Research, Information Technology Services, and Campus Operations. A 3D printer was used to create the first mold, which has continued to be reproduced by the hundreds every day, resulting in the manufacture of nearly 16,200 face shields thus far. Learn more about the task force. Temple University’s Chinese faculty and staff community partnered with local Asian and Chinese organizations to donate more than 81,000 PPE supplies to Temple University Hospital. Read more about this effort. The Fox School of Business donated $20,000 to a Temple University Health System fund so that medical teams can purchase PPE for their staff. Read more about the donation. Community Support For teachers and parents helping their students, faculty and students of our College of Science and Technology produced more than 160 free, open-source educational videos for children. Watch the videos on YouTube. Faculty and staff at the Center for Urban Bioethics at the Lewis Katz School of Medicine created the Phone a Friend program. The program provides patients in Temple Hospital with cell phones, matching them with medical student volunteers who are available for conversations. Due to COVID-19 restrictions, many patients are not able to see their friends and family, and the program allows them to connect with the volunteers. Although volunteers do not provide medical advice, they are trained to have compassionate conversations with callers. Read more about the program. The Fox School of Business’s Small Business Development Center conducts online seminars to help small business owners with the challenges brought on by social distancing. The Center has also begun planning future webinars to help businesses build customer relations when they can again reopen. Read more about the Small Business Development Center. Temple University’s Computer Recycling Center and the Lenfest North Philadelphia Workforce Initiative collaborated to donate 50 refurbished computers and 40 new laptops to North Philadelphia residents. The computers help local school children and their families stay connected now and into the future. Read more about this initiative. TechOWL—part of Temple’s Institute on Disabilities—created a simple communication assistant that now includes words related to COVID-19. Download the board. The university announced plans to open the Center for Hospitality Resilience, which will help local businesses reopen and provide guidance for adhering to Centers for Disease Control and Prevention regulations. Read the article. Donate Now PPE Donations Temple University Hospital is actively seeking more PPE. Donations of these items can be dropped off at the front desk or arrangements can be made by emailing covid19@tuhs.temple.edu. Donate Now PPE Donations https://www.temple.edu/about/news-media/media-mentions Local & National Media Mentions Delve further into the experiences of front-line workers, read about how singer P!nk is giving back to Temple University Hospital and more. Read news stories about Temple's impact during the pandemic Temple Thought Leadership Administrators, faculty and staff from across the university have shared their expertise and collaborated on endeavors to help the public better understand and provide solutions for the medical and social impacts of COVID-19. Scott Burris Director, Center for Public Health Law Research Scott Burris, director of the Center for Public Health Law Research at Temple University, addressed as early as March what the coronavirus quarantine might look like for the United States. Read More Frank Farley Professor, Psychological Studies in Education Frank Farley, Laura H. Carnell Professor of psychological studies in education at Temple University and a practicing psychologist, explores potential coping mechanisms for children and adults struggling to adapt in an increasingly uncertain world. Read More Sara Goldrick-Rab Director, The Hope Center for College Community and Justice Sara Goldrick-Rab, the founding director of The Hope Center for College Community and Justice, a Temple University-based research group focused on college students’ needs, and a sociology professor in the College of Liberal Arts, speaks to the struggles—and the hopes—of housing-insecure students. Read More Jerry Stahler Professor, Department of Geography and Urban Studies Jerry Stahler, a clinical psychologist and professor in Temple University’s Department of Geography and Urban Studies, addresses the inherent difficulties facing those with a substance use disorder or alcohol addiction. Read More Yang Yang Associate Professor, School of Sport, Tourism and Hospitality Management Yang Yang, an associate professor in the School of Sport, Tourism and Hospitality Management at Temple University, discusses the overall economic impact of the pandemic in Philadelphia and, more specifically, its tourism industry. Read More Student Support Learn more about how Temple is supporting its students during this time. Student Support Temple’s Impact News and Media Home Go back to AboutMore in Temple's Impact Career in Charitable Change Fueled by Temple Experiences Advancing Breast Cancer Research Leaders in HIV Research 21st-century Learning Temple Firsts Paving the Way Medical & Community Support Student Support Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Calendar Policies Social Media TUportal TUmail Accessibility Careers at Temple Safety & Emergency Information Ethics & Compliance Privacy Statement Professional Licensure Disclosures Follow Temple University Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community.