Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Apply Visit Give Parents Search BC.edu Links Alumni Menu Main Nav Alumni Donate Back Back Close About Overview Alumni Association Alumni Board Alumni Association Staff Past Alumni Board Presidents Annual Report Leadership Terms of Service Join Our Team Connect Overview Volunteer Councils & Groups Chapters International Hong Kong London Germany Madrid Panama Paris Philippines Singapore Arizona Phoenix California Los Angeles Northern California Orange County Sacramento San Diego Colorado Denver Connecticut Fairfield Hartford Delaware Delaware District of Columbia Washington, D.C. Florida Fort Lauderdale Jacksonville Miami Orlando Palm Beach Sarasota Southwest Florida Tampa Georgia Atlanta Hawaii Hawaii Illinois Chicago Indiana Indianapolis Kentucky Kentucky Louisiana New Orleans Maine Maine Maryland Baltimore Massachusetts Boston Cape Cod Western Massachusetts Michigan Detroit Minnesota Minnesota Missouri Kansas City St. Louis Nebraska Omaha Nevada Las Vegas New Hampshire New Hampshire New Jersey Jersey Shore New Jersey New York Albany Buffalo Long Island New York City Rochester Westchester North Carolina Charlotte Triangle Ohio Cincinnati Cleveland Columbus Oregon Portland Pennsylvania Philadelphia Pittsburgh Puerto Rico Puerto Rico Rhode Island Rhode Island South Carolina South Carolina Tennessee Nashville Texas Austin Dallas Houston San Antonio Utah Utah Vermont Vermont Washington Seattle Wisconsin Milwaukee Class and School Engagement Spirituality On Eagles Wings Reflections Advent Reflections Lenten Reflections Reflections Reflections Social Media Pine Manor Alumni Hub Related Links Reunion BC Athletics Events Overview Reunion Weekend Pops on the Heights Family Weekend Global Days of Service Distinguished Volunteer Awards Dinner Winter Wonderland Benefits & Services Overview Career & Networking Alumni Benefits Giving Overview Gift Policy The Impact of Your Gift Give Online Gift Planning Giving Societies The 1863 Society McElroy Circle Bapst Circle Fulton Circle Gasson Circle Monan Circle The William B. Neenan, S.J., Society The Shaw Society Boston College Call Center Apply to Work at the Boston College Call Center Donate Close Directory A to Z Listing Search Alumni & Friends Search BC.edu Find pages or people Search Close Close Apply Visit Give Parents BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close Philadelphia Home Connect Chapters Pennsylvania Philadelphia Pennsylvania Philadelphia Pittsburgh The Philadelphia Chapter consists of over 7,000 alumni, parents, and friends and has been active since 2010. The chapter has sought to connect the BC community through family, service, and networking events. We look forward to connecting with you and hearing your ideas for how you would like to engage in your area. 7,643 Alumni Parents & Friends social leaders contact us events Follow Us Philadelphia Chapter Facebook Page Philadelphia Chapter LinkedIn Page Meet Your Chapter Leaders Stephanie Seitz '11 Lives in: Philadelphia, PA Major: Accounting & Finance (Minored in History) Occupation: Financial Controller Favorite BC Memory: It’s hard to pick just one memory, but the few that stand out include: a chance meeting with Doug Flutie after a BC-ND pep rally, the passion and enthusiasm of the CSOM faculty and students, and rowing in Head of the Charles freshman year after walking-on to the Varsity Crew team. Why did you get involved in your local chapter?: I wanted a way to stay connected with the Boston College community. The ability to meet local BC alums through volunteer and networking events offered by the Philadelphia Chapter seemed like the perfect opportunity! What are your local favorites in your city?: Among my favorite Philadelphia activities are running along Boathouse Row, visiting the Rittenhouse Square Farmers’ Market, and eating dinner at Twenty Manning Grill. Fun Fact: I met my city roommate of 3 years and now close friend through a Philly BC volunteer event! Courtney Dunne '08 Lives in: Conshohocken, PA Major: Finance & Marketing Occupation: Financial Services - Global Relationship Manager Favorite BC Memory: I have so many fond memories of BC that it is hard to pick a favorite. Fall foliage, football games, and moving back in with my closest friends was always something I looked forward to each year. Why did you get involved in your local chapter?: After graduating, I moved to Philadelphia for a job, not knowing many people or much about the city. I quickly missed being at BC and was eager to connect with other alumni in the area. At the time, events were mostly held in the suburbs and I was interested in building out our presence in Center City. Fast forward 10 plus years of planning later and I still look forward to game watches and other gatherings with our chapter! What are your local favorites in your city?: Tela’s Market, Ali’s Wagon & Yoga Habit in Fairmount, ‘Feine in Conshocken, and Monroeville Winery in South Jersey. Fun Fact: Multiple year participant in my hometown’s Polar Bear Plunge. Alumni Staff Liaison Name: Ana Mirovic Contact: mirovic@bc.edu Events Previous Events July Social with New Jersey Chapters ENGAGE WITH US ON EAGLE EXCHANGE! STAY CONNECTED AND BUILD YOUR NETWORK Eagle Exchange is an online platform that facilitates career-related conversations between current Boston College students and alumni, and is a place where the BC network comes alive through professional conversations, connections, and mentorship. Search by location to connect with local Eagles! Join Today Back To Top Back To Top Boston College Alumni Association Cadigan Alumni Center 140 Commonwealth Ave. Chestnut Hill, MA 02467 Connect With Us Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkedIn Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College For updates on Boston College's reopening for fall semester visit bc.edu/reopen. Ok