Skip to main content Skip to main content Prospective Students Current Students Alumni More Faculty/Staff News Media Parents Skip to main content Apply Apply Give Give Follow Us Follow Us Twitter Follow Us Facebook Follow Us Instagram Follow Us LinkedIn Follow Us YouTube Follow Us Social Stream Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. Navigate Search Skip to main content Student Center and Activities Student Organizations Student Organizations Guidelines and Funding Options Student Organization Resources Hughes-Trigg Student Center Hughes-Trigg Student Center Welcome Desk HTSC Renovations Event Information Event Information HTSC Event Calendar Reservation Rates Room Features HTSC Procedures About Us ☰ Student Organization Resources Student Center and Activities Student Organizations Student Organization Resources Applications for temporary charters will reopen in Fall 2022. Student Involvement supports over 200 student clubs and organizations at SMU. Find resources below or email us at involvement@smu.edu for help or more information. Request Coke Product Contract Information Form Travel Registration Outdoor Event Request Are you looking to reserve an outdoor space for your next event? Requesting to hold an event outdoors on campus requires you to follow a two-step process in the STABLE software system. 1. Submit a reservation for your desired location 2. Submit a request for your event RESERVE LOCATION SUBMIT EVENT REQUEST Reserve Space in Hughes-Trigg Student Center Visit the HTSC website to learn more about hosting your next event or meeting in the building. If you have any questions, contact htsc@smu.edu. HTSC EVENT INFORMATION Services We Offer Organization Consultations Our staff regularly meets with student organization officers to provide help with using Connect.SMU, event planning, financial management, leadership transition, and more. Contact involvement@smu.edu to request a consultation at any time. Involvement Advising Staff members can meet with any student who is looking for their place to get involved on campus. We can provide advice on how to apply for membership, how to contact organizations, and how to decide which involvement opportunity is right for you. Any student can request a meeting by contacting involvement@smu.edu. Training Topics Student Center and Activities provides training on a variety of topics as requested. If your group would like to learn more about event planning best practices, reserving space in Hughes-Trigg Student Center, or financial policies and processes for student organizations, let us know and we can come to your meeting or office. If you're interested in a topic not covered here, we can probably help! Email us at involvement@smu.edu for more information. Looking for more student organization resources? View student organization guidelines Apply Visit School Cox School of Business Dedman College of Humanities and Sciences Dedman School of Law Lyle School of Engineering Meadows School of the Arts Moody School of Graduate and Advanced Studies Perkins School of Theology Simmons School of Education and Human Development Explore SMU Magazine Academic Calendar Events Calendar Guildhall Continuing and Professional Education Athletics Employment at SMU Campus Reporting a Bias Incident Report Sexual Misconduct Emergency Preparedness Student Life George W. Bush Presidential Center SMU Libraries Meadows Museum Tate Lecture Series Contact Us Maps and Directions Legal Disclosures © Southern Methodist University, PO Box 750100, Dallas, TX 75275 twitter facebook instagram linkedin youtube share