COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW School of Computing Section Menu Contact SoC Areas Of Research Welcome Message From The Director SoC Undergraduate Programs SoC Graduate Programs People in the School of Computing (and availability) Donations SoC Industrial Advisory Board Tech Request System The Main SoC Page WSU's School of Computing offers two accredited undergraduate programs and four accredited graduate programs where students conduct state-of-the-art work in machine learning, algorithms and software systems, robotics, and computer systems and architecture. Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs People in the SoC School of Computing Academic Programs For undergraduates, the School of Computing offers: Computer Science Bachelor of Science (B.S. C.S.), ABET accredited Applied Computing Bachelor of Science (B.S. A.C.), HLC accredited An undergraduate Minor in Computer Science At the graduate level, we offer HLC accredited: Master of Science in Computer Science (M.S. C.S.); Master of Science in Computing (M.S. C.P.) Master of Science in Data Science (M.S. D.S.) Master of Science in Computer Networking (M.S. C.N.) - (being phased out and replaced by the M.S. C.P. degree); Doctor of Philosophy degree in Electrical Engineering and Computer Science (Ph.D. E.E.C.S.), Computer Science Concentration. School of Computing graduate certificates: graduate certificate in Computational Data Science graduate certificate in Computer Networking graduate certificate in Information Assurance and Cybersecurity graduate certificate in Software Engineering School of Computing Mission The mission of the school of computing is to provide students with a strong foundation in the traditional and contemporary areas of computer science, applied computing, computing, and data science. The objective of the undergraduate programs is to educate students in science and engineering so that they can conceive and solve technological problems in society. Social and humanistic (including diversity) issues are also emphasized in the general education component of the program to provide breadth in education. The undergraduate programs provide graduates with the knowledge, aptitudes, and attitudes which prepare them for corporate and governmental entry level jobs or to pursue further education at the graduate level. The objective of the graduate programs is to enable students to synthesize, interpret, and apply research and other forms of knowledge for the advancement of the discipline. Helpful Links Anonymous feedback form for the School Director School of Computing Academic Integrity Policy Career Development Center Find us on Facebook Join us on LinkedIn 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©