Skip to main content Skip to primary site menu Google Tag Manager Search form Search Brown University Robert J. & Nancy D.Carney Institute for Brain Science Search Brown University Home Research Research Projects Where Brain Science Happens BRAINSTORM Program Centers & Core Facilities Center for Alzheimer's Disease Research Center for Computational Brain Science COBRE Center for Neuromodulation Center for the Neurobiology of Cells and Circuits Center for Translational Neuroscience Center for Vision Research COBRE Center for Central Nervous System Function Research Projects Research Cores Behavior and Neuroimaging Core Design and Analysis Core MRI Research Facility Carney Human Testing Space The Bioluminescence Hub COVID-19 Resuming Research Plan Training Undergraduate Students Concentrations Graduate Study Postdocs Executive Committee Carney Summer Scholars Training Programs ICoN - Interdisciplinary Training Interdisciplinary Vision Training Program TPCP - Training Program People Institute Team Executive Committee Affiliated Faculty Community Spotlights Center Directors Scientific Advisory Board News & Events News Upcoming Events Past Events BrainExPo Seminar Series Carney Conversations Methods Meetups Resources Funding Opportunities Research Toolbox Brain Facts Education & Outreach Research & Educational Resources About Our Impact Affiliated Units Where Brain Science Happens FAQ Partner With Us Give To Carney Give To Carney Home Research Training People News & Events Resources About Partner With Us Search Carney Institute for Brain Science Carney professor wins three awards for contributions to psychological science Feb 15, 2022 Sara Feijo Brown University scientist Oriel FeldmanHall has recently received three early-career awards from prestigious neuroscience and psychological professional societies for her contributions to science. FeldmanHall, who is affiliated with Brown’s Carney Institute for Brain Science, is one of eight scientists worldwide to receive the Janet Taylor Spence Award for Transformative Early Career Contributions from the Association for Psychological Science (APS). The award recognizes APS members who have made transformative early-career contributions to psychological science, such as establishing new approaches or paradigms or advancing research that spans fields of study. FeldmanHall was also named one of two recipients of the 2022 Young Investigator Award from the Cognitive Neuroscience Society, which recognizes outstanding contributions by scientists early in their career. And she received the 2022 American Psychological Association’s Distinguished Scientific Award for an Early Career Contribution to Psychology in the area of cognition and human learning. Created in 1974, the award recognizes excellent psychologists who are at early stages of their research careers. “Receiving these rewards is very much a product of having amazingly supportive mentors and a lab full of brilliant scientists that I am so lucky to work with,” said FeldmanHall, Manning Assistant Professor of Cognitive, Linguistic, and Psychological Sciences. FeldmanHall studies how the brain detects, values and assesses conflicting reward and punishment contingencies during moral dilemmas, and she examines the role of emotion and its operational power in shaping these social interactions. Her research merges multiple fields of study, including behavioral economics and social psychology, with imaging and psychophysiological techniques to investigate the brain mechanisms that support these complex processes. “In general, we try to think outside of the box as much as possible in regards to the questions we are asking, how we go about measuring people's behaviors, and the methods we use and combine to analyze what people are doing and thinking,” FeldmanHall said. Most recently, she published a study which is the first to demonstrate that people build cognitive maps to represent an enormous amount of social information in a more flexible format. Cognitive maps have historically been studied in the context of spatial navigation, and they have been proposed to organize knowledge about where objects are located relative to each other. FeldmanHall’s study shows evidence that people also rely on cognitive maps to represent relationships between social features—such as race, gender and personal interests—in a social network. Now, members of the FeldmanHall Lab are taking their work on cognitive maps into the real world, where they will track an incoming cohort of freshmen at Brown to measure how their network forms and changes over the course of a year. The goal of this project, FeldmanHall said, is to examine how humans build cognitive maps of social networks in the wild and identify how the fidelity of the cognitive map is biased by where one sits in their network. Recent News News from Brown Seen and ‘herd’: Collective motion in crowds is largely determined by participants’ field of vision March 21, 2022 Read Coverage News from Brown Brown researcher to lead $16M grant to explore potential cause, treatment for Alzheimer’s disease March 10, 2022 Read Coverage News Seven brain science projects receive research seed awards February 16, 2022 Read Coverage News The Effort Puzzle: Carney scientists analyze people’s motivation to achieve versus avoid failure February 11, 2022 Read Coverage All News Robert J. & Nancy D. Carney Institute for Brain Science Robert J. & Nancy D. Carney Institute for Brain Science Brown University Box 1901 164 Angell St., 4th Floor Providence, RI 02912 Phone: 401-863-7421 Email [email protected] Brown University Giving to Brown Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA 401-863-1000 Contact Us Maps Directions Career Opportunities Campus Safety Accessibility All Social Media © 2022 Brown University | Back to top