We use cookies to make your website experience better. To learn about how we keep your information safe, view our Privacy Policy. Accept Safer Return to Campus Masks Strongly Recommended. Notification of Potential Workplace Exposure. Skip To Main Content Popular Searches × About Mission History Dean's Office Dean's Advisory Council Organizational Chart Open Positions Contact Us Departments Architecture Art Landscape Architecture Urban and Regional Planning Lyle Center for Regenerative Studies Programs Undergraduate Programs - Architecture - Art History - Landscape Architecture - Urban and Regional Planning - Visual Communication Design Graduate Programs - Architecture - Interior Architecture - Landscape Architecture - Urban and Regional Planning - Regenerative Studies - Minor Programs - General Education Courses Academic Resources ENV Student Success Advising Center Instructional Services Bureau + Print Labs ENV Model Shop Architecture Fabrication Lab GIS Lab News & Events News Events Calendar On the Grid ENV Publications National Rankings & Recognition Culture Diversity, Equity and Inclusion ENV Archives-Special Collections Neutra VDL House W.Keith & Janet Kellogg University Art Gallery Don B. Huntley Gallery Giving How to Give 1 2 3 4 5 Wildflower patch in front of Building 7 (Tom Zasadzinski) Slide2 OUTSIDE/IN 1,000 models architecture charette at the ENV Gallery (Katrin Terstegen) A student wades through 1,000 models in the ENV Gallery (Katrin Terstegen) Slide3 Building 7, designed by famed modernist architect Carl Maston (Mark Maryanovich Photography) Building 7, designed by famed modernist architect Carl Maston (Mark Maryanovich Photography) Slide4 Hard at work in the Interim Design Center (Mark Maryanovich Photography) Hard at work in the Interim Design Center (Mark Maryanovich Photography) Slide5 Sketchbooks in IndiVisuals Exhibition (Mark Maryanovich Photography) Sketchbooks in IndiVisuals Exhibition (Mark Maryanovich Photography) Previous Next College of Environmental Design Design the Future The College of Environmental Design (ENV) connects people, places and the environments in which we live, work and play. A leader in design excellence, its programs use the rich creative economy and cultural capital of Southern California – and its geographical advantage as a global gateway for trade and ideas – to educate and train future designers to shape the future of the built and natural environments with resiliency, inclusivity and justice. ENV offers undergraduate and graduate degrees in architecture, landscape architecture, urban and regional planning; undergraduate degrees visual communication design and art history; and a graduate degree in regenerative studies. The college also manages the University's two professional galleries, the W. Keith & Janet Kellogg University Art Gallery and the Don B. Huntley Gallery; the Neutra VDL House, designated a National Historic Landmark; and the ENV Archives-Special Collections. What is Environmental Design? Environmental design studies the relationships we have with the built and natural environments, and the ways human interactions affect the surrounding environment. We encounter expressions of environmental design in our daily lives: the buildings in which we dwell; the green spaces we enjoy; the cities and roads we traverse; and forms of visual design that translate and deliver complex ideas. Top-Ranked View ENV's national rankings Mobility Forbes names Cal Poly Pomona in the Top 10 schools increasing social mobility Diversity Hispanic Outlook on Educationranks architecture program No. 2 in the nation for number of bachelor's degrees awarded to Hispanic students Sustainability The Lyle Center for Regenerative Studies is a premiere interdisciplinary research institute for cutting-edge sustainability research and programs Leading the Way ENV Dean’s Advisory Council’s distinguished alumni champion innovation and the future of the profession Connect with ENV The College of Environmental Design is following Cal Poly Pomona's roadmap for phased campus reopening. See the Virtual Directory to find primary contacts for ENV departments, services and facilities in Spring 2022. View Virtual Directory Future Students ENV Virtual Brochure Current Students Advising & Deadlines Faculty & Expertise View Faculty Expertise ENV EAP Emergency Assistance Program 2021-22 President's Scholars Kristen Alyssa Ayap James H. Jones President's Scholar Elise Levesque Rinehart Family President's Scholar Undergraduate Advising Find the Advisor Directory and connect with the ENV Student Success Advising Center for group advising sessions and one-on-one appointments. ENV Student Advising Center Landscape Architecture and the Science of Climate Change View the 2021-22 program and recordings of the public speaker series hosted by the Department of Landscape Architecture. 2021-22 Program Instagram Twitter Vimeo LinkedIn Facebook 3801 West Temple Avenue, Pomona, CA 91768 ©2021 California State Polytechnic University, Pomona All Rights Reserved About Cal Poly Pomona Feedback Privacy Accessibility Document Readers