Skip to content Columbia University Irving Medical Center Find People Events Faculty and Staff Resources Give Now Search About Us About Us Facts and Figures Explore CUIMC Events Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion at CUIMC Community Development and Alumni Explore CUIMC Leadership and Administration A-Z Listing Affiliated Hospitals Campus Map and Directions Campus Resources Contact CUIMC Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion At CUIMC, we are committed to continuous improvement in providing culturally inclusive medical education and clinical care. Learn About Our Commitment Education Education Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons Mailman School of Public Health School of Nursing College of Dental Medicine VP&S Columbia Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons is dedicated to developing the next generation of leaders in medicine Learn About Our Academic Programs Research Research The Louisa Gross Horwitz Prize Columbia Technology Ventures Research Administration Columbia Clinical Innovation Lab Patient Care Patient Care ColumbiaDoctors Children's Health Columbia Primary Care Herbert Irving Comprehensive Cancer Center ColumbiaDoctors Dentistry Digital Health Services at Columbia Find a Doctor Search for a provider by specialty, expertise, location and insurance. Schedule an appointment online. Find a Doctor News News For the Media Share Your News CUIMC Update CUIMC Celebrates Columbia Medicine Read the latest news stories about CUIMC faculty, research, and events Explore Our News COVID-19 Resources for CUIMC COVID-19 Resources for CUIMC COVID-19 Information for Patients COVID-19 Campus Safety for Employees and Students COVID-19 Vaccine Information For CUIMC Employees and Students COVID-19 Information and Resources for Clinical Staff COVID-19 Vaccine Information Learn about COVID-19 vaccine availability and requirements for employees and students at CUIMC Get the Latest Information Mental Health Topics Campus News Research Medical School Public Health Cancer Mental Health Infectious Diseases Neurology Neuroscience Education Heart Health Pediatrics View All Topics Search All News Keywords News Subtopics: Depression Psychiatry Top Stories Mental Health Care in AAPI Communities: Overcoming Language, Stigma, and Other Barriers Language differences, stigma, and the "model minority" myth prevent many people in Asian American and Pacific Islander communities from getting mental health care. Topic Campus News Making the Most of Telehealth for Talk Therapy Most mental health problems can be addressed via telehealth, says Columbia psychiatrist Deborah Cabaniss, and there are things patients can do to make the most of their sessions. Topic Campus News CUIMC Initiative Receives Federal Community Project Funding The COVID-19 Northern Manhattan Community Mental Wellness Corps, a new initiative to address mental health disparities in Northern Manhattan and parts of the Bronx, has received federal funding. Topic Campus News New Study Identifies Gaps in Emergency Care for Youth in Crisis New survey reveals that pediatric emergency departments need more guidance to help children and adolescents with mental health crises. Topic Pediatrics Latest News Fostering Financial and Mental Wellness During Times of Uncertainty September 3, 2020 Columbia psychiatrists are developing a financial wellness program to help New Yorkers buffer the mental health impact of unemployment, financial loss, and eviction. Topic Infectious Diseases Coping in Crisis: Program Offers Free Resources for CUIMC Faculty and Staff August 31, 2020 Dr. Lourival Baptista-Neto speaks about CopeColumbia, where CUIMC employees can access psychological support and other support services. Topic Psychiatry Coping With the Pandemic: Turning the Mind Toward Acceptance August 20, 2020 Two Columbia psychologists write that practicing acceptance of our current reality—not toxic positivity—is a key way to cope with the mental health effects of the pandemic. Topic Infectious Diseases Teens' Social Media Use Does Not Raise Risk for Depression August 11, 2020 Daily social media use is not a strong or consistent risk factor for depressive symptoms among adolescents, according to a new study by Columbia University Mailman School of Public Health researchers. Managing Eating Disorders During COVID-19 August 7, 2020 For people with eating disorders, the COVID pandemic is creating an array of new challenges that can disrupt coping strategies and pose a risk to recovery. Topic Infectious Diseases Google Searches During Pandemic Hint at Future Increase in Suicide July 31, 2020 Googling for financial issues and disaster help rose sharply early in the COVID-19 pandemic and may portend a future increase in suicides, Columbia researchers found. Topic Infectious Diseases Columbia Suicide Research Culminates in New National Hotline Number July 17, 2020 Madelyn Gould’s research into the effectiveness of suicide hotlines helped pave the way for 988, a new nationwide suicide hotline number that will become operational in 2022. Why Are Memories Attached to Emotions So Strong? July 13, 2020 Multiple neurons in the brain must fire in synchrony to create persistent memories tied to intense emotions, new research from Columbia neuroscientists has found. Topic Neuroscience Algorithm Predicts Risk for PTSD After Traumatic Injury July 6, 2020 With high precision, a new algorithm predicts which patients treated for traumatic injuries in the emergency department will later develop post-traumatic stress disorder. Topic Research At Height of COVID, Nurses and Doctors Reported High Levels of Distress June 23, 2020 During the height of the COVID-19 pandemic in New York City, health care workers on the front lines had high levels of acute stress, anxiety, and depression. Topic Depression Pages first previous … 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 … next last Columbia University Irving Medical Center NewYork-Presbyterian About Us Careers News Education Patient Care Research Resources at CUIMC Columbia University Irving Medical Center 630 West 168th Street New York, NY 10032 United States Follow Us Facebook Twitter YouTube LinkedIn Instagram Back to top