skip to main content University of Nevada, Reno Homepage Apply Visit News Give Search www.unr.edu Search www.unr.edu Search Search www.unr.edu Search www.unr.edu Quicklinks Expand or Collapse to view popular links for this site Alumni Faculty & Staff Parents Students Academic Calendar Campus Catalog Directory Email Access Library Maps MyNevada WebCampus Workday Zoom Login Menu Expand or Collapse to view links grouped by top level headings Quicklinks Alumni Faculty & Staff Parents Students Academic Calendar Campus Catalog Directory Email Access Library Maps MyNevada WebCampus Workday Zoom Login COVID-19 employee and department guidance Mandatory testing of unvaccinated employees Job opportunities Executive searches Athletics Director search Employee recognition Dual Career Assistance Program Veteran support Employee resources Employee relations Employee resource center New employee resources International travel Employee travel Individual student travel Group student travel Cyber safety guidelines Home-share guidelines Policies and regulations BCN Risk Management Students and graduate assistants Student Employee of the Year Award Graduate assistantships Employer resources Training and development Mandatory supervisor training BCN volunteer information Benefits and wellness Benefits center Faculty benefits at a glance LOA benefits at a glance Postdoc benefits at a glance Classified benefits at a glance Educational benefits Faculty Classified employees Classified Employee Family Opportunity Program Postdocs and medical staff Letters of appointment Graduate assistants Rates Employee assistance program Leave and time off Remote work Retirement Wolf Pack Wellbeing Week Workers' compensation Compensation and evaluation Compensation by employee type NSHE Payroll Services Performance management and evaluation Academic faculty Administrative Faculty in Knowledge Base Classified Staff at BCN HR Shared Services Salary schedules and overload LOA & postdoc salaries Classified staff salaries Salary structure About us Worker counts Employment verifications Office location Staff directory Request Affirmative Action Plan Contact form Apply Visit News Give Department of Human Resources COVID-19 employee and department guidance Mandatory testing of unvaccinated employees Job opportunities Executive searches Employee recognition Dual Career Assistance Program Veteran support Employee resources Employee relations Employee resource center New employee resources International travel Policies and regulations BCN Risk Management Students and graduate assistants Training and development BCN volunteer information Benefits and wellness Benefits center Educational benefits Employee assistance program Leave and time off Remote work Retirement Wolf Pack Wellbeing Week Workers' compensation Compensation and evaluation Compensation by employee type NSHE Payroll Services Performance management and evaluation Salary schedules and overload About us Worker counts Employment verifications Office location Staff directory Request Affirmative Action Plan Contact form The University of Nevada, Reno has resumed full in-person campus operations. Due to the current health and safety emergency declaration, anyone hired must receive a complete (and verified) COVID-19 vaccination series or an approved medical or religious waiver request as a term and condition of employment prior to any start date at any Nevada System of Higher Education (NSHE) institution. For finalist verification and waiver questions, please contact employeevax@unr.edu. Job opportunities Do what you love. External candidates Join the University of Nevada, Reno. We are a high-quality, high-impact research university focused on student success, world-improving research, and engagement with our communities and businesses. Apply Externally Internal candidates University of Nevada, Reno and Nevada System of Higher Education employees, as well as anyone with access to NSHE's Workday system, must apply as an internal candidate in Workday. Log on to Workday and search Find Jobs. Apply Internally Curious about life at the University? Learn what to expect as a new employee of the University of Nevada, Reno. From onboarding to promotion, the Employee Resource Center provides a comprehensive online orientation experience for you and your family. Employee resource center A beautiful place to work The University is a dynamic and exciting workplace nestled in the foot of Peavine Mountain and shaded by a nationally-recognized arboretum. Take a tour of campus. Northern Nevada living Located on the banks of the Truckee River, Reno is a cosmopolitan city, with all the amenities, just a short distance from Lake Tahoe. Learn more about the area. Rich in history and traditions Established in 1874, the University of Nevada, Reno is the oldest and most prestigious university in Nevada with a large range of academic programs. Learn more about our history. Faculty Dual Career Program The University's Faculty Dual Career Program helps partners of new faculty with job placement. Learn more about Dual Career Program. Find work-life balance with part-time employment. In support of diverse lifestyles and life stages, we offer a variety of part-time and temporary employment opportunities. Part-time faculty To see our part-time faculty job opportunities, select either Apply Externally or Apply Internally above and filter by the Job Categories labeled Academic Faculty or Administrative Faculty. In the Full/Part-time Category, select the checkbox for Part-Time. We offer Letter of Appointment (LOA) opportunities as well. LOAs are part-time, temporary Academic and Administrative Faculty appointments. For more information about LOAs, please contact the department for specific requirements. Part-time classified To see our part-time classified job opportunities, select either Apply Externally or Apply Internally above and filter by the Job Categories labeled Classified. In the Full/Part-time Category, select the checkbox for Part Time. Part-time temporary hourly Temporary hourly positions are primarily staff positions that offer 30 hours per week or less. To see our temporary hourly job postings, select either Apply Externally or Apply Internally above and filter by the Job Category labeled Hourly. Part-time student workers To see our student job postings, select either Apply Externally or Apply Internally above and filter by the Job Category labeled Hourly. Student employment opportunities are for students that meet the specified criteria. For more information, please see our Student Employment page: Student Employment Part-time grad assistantships Graduate Assistants perform a variety of duties from teaching undergraduate classes to grading papers, to conducting research in laboratories. These positions are offered through various academic departments and are paid by grants or state funds. Students interested in these positions must contact the department for specific requirements. For more information, please see our Graduate Assistants page: Graduate Assistants Our commitment to equal employment opportunity The University of Nevada, Reno is committed to Equal Employment Opportunity/Affirmative Action in recruitment of its employees and does not discriminate on the basis of race, color, religion, sex, age, creed, national origin, veteran status, physical or mental disability, sexual orientation, genetic information, gender identity, or gender expression. The University of Nevada, Reno employs only United States citizens and aliens lawfully authorized to work in the United States. Women, under-represented groups, individuals with disabilities, and veterans are encouraged to apply. Non-discrimination statement NSHE is committed to providing a place of work and learning free of discrimination on the basis of a person’s age (40 or older), disability, whether actual or perceived by others (including service-connected disabilities), gender (including pregnancy related conditions), military status or military obligations, sexual orientation, gender identity or expression, genetic information, national origin, race (including hair texture and protected hairstyles such as natural hairstyles, afros, bantu knots, curls, braids, locks and twists), color, or religion (protected classes). The University of Nevada, Reno does not discriminate on the basis of sex in any education program or activity that it operates. Non-discrimination on the basis of sex is mandated by Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 (20 U.S.C. §§ 1681 et seq.) and the corresponding implementation regulations (34 C.F.R. Part 106). The University’s commitment to nondiscrimination in its education programs and activities extends to applicants for admission and employment. Inquiries concerning the application of these provisions may be referred to (or to both): Maria Doucettperry, J.D. Title IX Coordinator University of Nevada, Reno 1664 North Virginia Street Continuing Education Building Room 206 M/S 158 Telephone: (775) 784-1547 Email: eotix@unr.edu The Assistant Secretary of the United States Department of Education U.S. Department of Education Office for Civil Rights 400 Maryland Avenue, SW Washington, DC 20202-1100 Telephone: (800) 421-3481 Fax: (202) 453-6012 TDD: (800) 887-8339 Email: OCR@ed.gov Information pertaining to the University’s grievance procedures and grievance process, including how to report or file a complaint of sex discrimination, how to report or file a formal complaint of sexual harassment, and how the University will respond can be found on the Equal Opportunity and Title IX website. Department Contact Information Location: The Artemisia Building, 70 Artemisia Way Mailstop: 0238 Mailing Address: 1664 North Virginia Street, Reno, Nevada 89557 Phone: (775) 784-6082 Fax: (775) 784-1073 Hours: 8:00 a.m.-5:00 p.m., Monday through Friday Directory: Staff Directory Follow us on social media: Department Contact Information facebook Follow the University University Twitter University Facebook University YouTube University Vimeo University Flickr University Instagram University LinkedIn University of Nevada, Reno 1664 N. Virginia Street, Reno, NV 89557 (775) 784-1110 Employment & Careers Non-Discrimination Statement Privacy Website Help Commitment to Diversity Commitment to Accessibility Contact the University Equal Opportunity and Title IX