Ohio State nav bar Skip to main content The Ohio State University Help BuckeyeLink Map Find People Webmail Search Ohio State Google Tag Manager Calendar FAQ Contact About News Make a Gift Handbook GRADFORMS Programs & Admissions Find Your Program Is Graduate School for You? Admissions Why Ohio State? Funding Fellowships Graduate Associateships Grants Tuition and Fees Financial Education Pursuing Your Degree What to Expect New Student To-Do List Course Registration Graduate Fellows Graduate Associates Research Resources Social, Wellness, Student Life Completing Your Degree Dissertations & Theses Document Preparation Format Review and Submission Access & Distribution Examinations Doctoral Examinations Professional Doctoral Exams Master’s Examinations Final Semester Final Semester Procedures and Timelines Commencement Alumni Resources Career Building Strategies... Accelerate to Industry (A2i) Preparing Future Faculty Graduate Associate Teaching Award (GATA) Graduate Associate Leadership Award (GALA) Graduate Associate Performance Award (GAPA) Three Minute Thesis (3MT) Hayes Research Forum Diversity Recruitment Belong@OSU Summer Research Opportunities Program (SROP) Diversity Database Retention Diversity Advisory Council (DAC) Community Building Retention Postdoctoral Affairs Faculty & Staff Resources Fellowship Guidelines Presidential Fellowship Guidelines Patrick S. Osmer Fellowship Guidelines ENGIE-Axium Graduate Fellowship and Scholarship Guidelines Early Offer Inclusive Excellence Matching Tuition Proposing New Programs or Degrees Recruitment Graduate Faculty Graduate Studies Committee Graduate Faculty Representative Graduate Council Learning Goals Assessment Graduate Associate & Fellow Appointments Research Coalition for Next Generation Life Science Summer Research Opportunities Program Project Archive Campus Conversation HANDBOOK GRADFORMS Calendar FAQ Contact About News Make a Gift You are here Home » Home Graduate Education at The Ohio State University We are dedicated to academic success: for students, faculty, and staff. Find unlimited opportunities for discovery. Find Your Program Pursuing Your Degree Completing Your Degree Connect with us The Graduate School offers an array of services to students, faculty, and staff in-person on the second floor of University Hall from 8:30am-4:00pm, Monday through Friday. To guarantee efficient responses to requests, please do not send messages directly to specific staff members, unless there is an urgent issue that cannot be delayed and may only be answered by that person. We ask that you please remember that our Registration Services team and Graduation Services teams will be unable to provide services in a timely manner without using all our available staff and specifically designated channels of communication. If you have questions or you need to schedule an appointment with a specific person within the Graduate School, please contact us through one of the following methods: General Phone Inquiries – (614) 292-6031 Graduate and Professional Admissions If you have any admissions-related questions, please contact the Office of Graduate and Professional Admissions at (614) 292-9444. gpadmissions@osu.edu Graduation Services Examinations, format reviews, graduation process, etc. grad-schoolgraduationservices@osu.edu grad-schoolformatreview@osu.edu Registration Services General inquiries, GA appointments, etc. grad-schoolregistrationservices@osu.edu Petitions and Transfers Late Add/Drop, course petitions, conditional and Graduate Bridge Program admissions, progress letter requests Transfer of Credit, Transfer of Program, Dual Degree grad-schoolpetitions@osu.edu grad-schooltransfers@osu.edu Special Announcement Mary Stromberger has been appointed to serve as Ohio State’s vice provost and dean for graduate education. Read more about the new vice provost and dean for graduate education. 2022 Graduate School Awards Ceremony On April 12th, recipients of the 2021 - 2022 Presidential Fellows, 2020-2021 President’s Postdoctoral Scholars, Graduate Associate Teaching Awardees (GATA) and Graduate Associate Leadership Awardees (GALA) and the Three Minute Thesis competition finalists will be honored at the 2022 Graduate School Awards Ceremony. 2022 Awards Ceremony Additional Information Academic Deadlines See Full Academic Calendar Application deadlines and criteria vary by individual program. Learn more in admissions. Completing Your Degree What you need to know for a successful conclusion to your graduate experience. DISSERTATION & THESES Document Preparation Format Review and Submission Access & Distribution Examinations Doctoral Examination Professional Doctoral Exam Master’s Examination Final Semester Final Semester Checklists Commencement Upcoming Events See Full Event Calendar Impact. Here and Across the Globe. See some of the great work being done by Ohio State graduate students and faculty. Ohio State students help needy families Westerville Area Resource Ministry (WARM) hosted this year’s annual day of service for the 38 SROP students on June 2, and the students helped WARM fulfill its mission of "Restoring Dignity and Hope by Offering a Hand Up, Not a Hand Out." ... Learn More Bartow J. Elmore Wins 2016 Arlt Award in the Humanities COLUMBUS, OHIO – The Council of Graduate Schools (CGS) has awarded the 2016 Gustave O. Arlt Award in the Humanities to Dr. Bartow J. Elmore, assistant professor of environmental history at The Ohio State University. The Dec. 8 awards ceremony was held during the CGS 56th Annual Meeting in... Learn More Outcomes & Innovations We provide leadership, service and advocacy. Learn More About the Graduate School Graduate School Alicia L. Bertone, DVM, PhD Dean of the Graduate School and Vice Provost for Graduate Studies About the Dean Phone: 614-292-6031 Fax: 614-292-3656 250 University Hall 230 N. Oval Mall Columbus, OH 43210 Full Contact List Give to Ohio State Follow us for updates: Facebook Twitter Admissions * Admissions, 614-292-9444 gpadmissions@osu.edu Curriculum and Program Development * Curriculum Services, 614-688-0230 grad-schoolcurriculum@osu.edu Digital Accessibility Coordination Matthew Swift, swift.23@osu.edu Dissertations & Theses *Theses and Dissertation Review, 614-292-6031 grad-schoolformatreview@osu.edu Diversity and Recruitment * Diversity Recruitment, 614-688-2307 gradrecruit@osu.edu Doctoral Exams Sandra Krulikoski-Walden, gsgfr@osu.edu Graduate School Fellowships * Fellowship Services, 614-688-0230 grad-schoolfellowships@osu.edu Master's Examination Wilma Barnfather, barnfather.1@osu.edu Master's Graduation Requirements Wilma Barnfather, barnfather.1@osu.edu Postdoctoral Affairs *Postdoctoral Affairs, 614-688-1589 osupostdocs@osu.edu Registration * Registration Services, 614-292-6031 grad-schoolregistrationservices@osu.edu Theses and Dissertations Wilma Barnfather, barnfather.1@osu.edu The Ohio State University © 2022 The Ohio State University