Skip to navigation Skip to main content Columbia College Main Menu About the College Mission History Leadership Strategic Plan My Columbia College Journey Our Commitment to Diversity, Equity and Inclusion News and Updates Visit Columbia College Awards The Core Curriculum Contemporary Civilization Literature Humanities Art Humanities Music Humanities University Writing Frontiers of Science Global Core Requirement Center for the Core Curriculum Academics Current Bulletin Archived Bulletins Academic Credit Academic Coursework Academic Advising and Support Academic Opportunities Academic Honors, Awards and Prizes Academic Integrity Academic Affairs Advising Berick Center for Student Advising Career Advising Fellowship Advising Financial Aid Advising Global Programs Advising Major Advising Preprofessional Advising Admissions Financial Aid Learn About Columbia Visit Columbia Apply to Columbia Campus Life Undergraduate Student Life Student Resources Supporting the College Audiences Faculty Families Alumni Search Home / Campus Life Campus Life Life as a Columbia College student is about more than just world-class academic offerings. Offices across the University support and assist College students from their first moments on campus until their last steps at Commencement. Upon graduation, students remain connected to the College through a range of programming and services offered through Columbia College Alumni Affairs and other offices. Learn more below: Undergraduate Student Life aims to connect, engage, and support students through a variety of unique and complementary programs and oversees various aspects of student life, including the New Student Orientation Program (NSOP), Residential Life, Multicultural Affairs, and Student Engagement. The James H. and Christine Turk Berick Center for Student Advising (CSA) provides an integrated advising experience for all students in Columbia College, bringing together, general academic advising, Academic Success Programs, the Columbia Undergraduate Scholars Program (CUSP), and the Office of Preprofessional Advising. Students are assigned a CSA adviser who works with them throughout their time at Columbia. Athletics is home to the Columbia Lions, a series of Division 1 sports teams, as well as Dodge Fitness Center, physical education classes, intramural and club sports teams, and administration of the swim test, a graduation requirement for all College students. The Center for Career Education helps students and alumni develop the key competencies necessary to make informed decisions and take the necessary steps to achieve their career goals. CCE establishes connections and facilitates interaction among undergraduate students, graduate students, alumni, employers, and organizations to generate opportunities that help students pursue their personal and professional objectives. Dining Services provides nutritional food at multiple food environments across campus, from cafés to dining halls. Financial Aid & Educational Financing works with students in Columbia College and their families in developing a plan to pay for college. The Center for Undergraduate Global Engagement connects students with international educational opportunities, empowering students to cultivate new knowledge and gain the skills needed to be active and informed citizens of our global community. The OGP Fellowships Office supports Columbia undergraduates in exploring and applying for internal, national, and international fellowships. Columbia Health offers access to medical providers, therapists, psychiatrists, disability specialists, health promotion specialists, nutritionists and peer counselors who work to keep the Columbia student body healthy in both mind and body.Columbia Housing is in charge of residential facilities and room selection. Student Conduct and Community Standards assists the Columbia undergraduate community with the maintenance of a safe, honest, and responsible campus environment. Find Courses Find Student Resources Activities Advising Athletics Careers Dining Financial Aid Global Programs Health Housing Student Conduct & Community Standards Multicultural Affairs Residential Life More Resources... Columbia College Columbia University in the City of New York Facebook Twitter Instagram Contact Us 208 Hamilton Hall Mail Code 2805 1130 Amsterdam Avenue New York, NY 10027 ColumbiaCollege@columbia.edu 212-854-2441 College Offices Alumni Affairs and Development Berick Center for Student Advising Center for Career Education Center for the Core Curriculum Center for Undergraduate Global Engagement Double Discovery Center Eric H. Holder Jr. Initiative for Civil and Political Rights Financial Aid & Educational Financing Undergraduate Admissions Undergraduate Research and Fellowships Undergraduate Student Life Core to Commencement © 2022 Columbia University | Privacy Policy | Notice of Non-Discrimination | Terms of Use | Accessibility | University Home Page