Skip to Main Content Brown University News from Brown Site Navigation Featured Events For Journalists Search Menu 2021 News Breadcrumb Home News from Brown All News News Search News Archive 2022 2021 2020 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 All Previous Years Subscribe to our weekly newsletter 297 Results based on your selections. Science and Technology Grant project supports Asian American and Pacific Islander students in geoscience December 20, 2021 The National Science Foundation will support a project aimed at helping Asian Americans and Pacific Islanders thrive in Earth and geological science education and careers. Read Article Open details for Grant project supports Asian American and Pacific Islander students in geoscience Health and Medicine Grants totaling $4.6 million support the use of machine learning to improve outcomes of people with HIV December 20, 2021 In partnership with Moi University in Kenya, Brown University will develop, test and launch data-driven tools to maximize the effectiveness of HIV care programs. Read Article Open details for Grants totaling $4.6 million support the use of machine learning to improve outcomes of people with HIV Science and Technology Brown students bring Earth science education to Providence elementary schools December 16, 2021 Through DEEPS STEP, Brown postdocs, undergraduate and graduate students develop and teach a science curriculum, complete with engaging, hands-on activities, to elementary students in the Providence Public School District. Read Article Open details for Brown students bring Earth science education to Providence elementary schools News and Events The year in stories — 2021 December 16, 2021 At Brown, calendar year 2021 was brimming with breakthroughs, reflections, an unshakeable sense of community and the determination necessary to move forward — here are 21 stories that offer a glimpse at that activity. Read Article Open details for The year in stories — 2021 News and Events From most diverse applicant pool to date, Brown admits 896 early decision students December 16, 2021 Selected from a pool of 6,146 applicants, the Class of 2026’s first members reflect the University’s ongoing commitment to making a Brown education more accessible to students from every socioeconomic background. Read Article Open details for From most diverse applicant pool to date, Brown admits 896 early decision students Health and Medicine Advancing health care and the R.I. economy — leaders, experts discuss proposed academic health system December 15, 2021 Brown, Lifespan and Care New England leaders joined U.S. Sen. Sheldon Whitehouse and other experts in a virtual discussion on the potential for an integrated system to provide world-class care for the people of Rhode Island. Read Article Open details for Advancing health care and the R.I. economy — leaders, experts discuss proposed academic health system Arts and Humanities In music theory class, students learn another kind of storytelling December 14, 2021 Eric Nathan’s Theory of Tonal Music I course teaches students the mechanics of music — then calls on them to write their own pop songs. Read Article Open details for In music theory class, students learn another kind of storytelling Health and Medicine Researchers develop an RNA-based breath test to detect COVID-19 December 14, 2021 The Bubbler, a breathalyzer device that reverse-transcribes RNA from airborne SARS-CoV-2 in breath, predicts lower respiratory tract involvement and is less invasive than alternative testing approaches, researchers say. Read Article Open details for Researchers develop an RNA-based breath test to detect COVID-19 Health and Medicine Student entrepreneurs at Intus Care harness power of data to improve health care for the elderly December 9, 2021 Making the most of opportunities for entrepreneurship support at Brown, four undergraduates combined their distinctive skills, talents and experiences to change how health care is provided to vulnerable patients. Read Article Open details for Student entrepreneurs at Intus Care harness power of data to improve health care for the elderly Health and Medicine $25 million gift to Brown to accelerate discovery at renamed Legorreta Cancer Center December 9, 2021 Generous support from the Legorreta family will propel plans for a world-class, nationally designated cancer center at Brown that will turn basic science into treatments for patients in Rhode Island and beyond. Read Article Open details for $25 million gift to Brown to accelerate discovery at renamed Legorreta Cancer Center Science and Technology Researchers identify brain signals associated with OCD symptoms, paving way for adaptive treatment December 9, 2021 The discovery of electrical signals in the brain associated with OCD could enable an emerging type of adaptive deep brain stimulation therapy as an improved treatment. Read Article Open details for Researchers identify brain signals associated with OCD symptoms, paving way for adaptive treatment University Initiatives Together, Brown, Vartan Gregorian Elementary are designing, creating hands-on ‘STEAM room’ for kids December 8, 2021 Staff at Brown University are working with the Providence public school to transform an empty classroom into an engaging, interactive space where students can conduct experiments and work on creative projects. Read Article Open details for Together, Brown, Vartan Gregorian Elementary are designing, creating hands-on ‘STEAM room’ for kids Arts and Humanities At Brown, Indigenous students are keeping their native languages alive December 8, 2021 An independent study project organized through the Native American and Indigenous Studies Initiative is enabling students to strengthen their knowledge of international Indigenous languages, from Narragansett to Yoruba. Read Article Open details for At Brown, Indigenous students are keeping their native languages alive News and Events Bianca Camacho and her fellow midyear completers create unique paths to a Brown degree December 7, 2021 Brown’s annual Midyear Completion Celebration on Saturday, Dec. 11, an in-person event that will be live-streamed, will celebrate the achievements of this year’s “.5ers,” who complete their degree requirements this month. Read Article Open details for Bianca Camacho and her fellow midyear completers create unique paths to a Brown degree Arts and Humanities In yearlong Songwriting Workshop, student and community musicians find their voices December 2, 2021 The Brown Arts Institute’s free and open-to-the-public Songwriting Workshop provides a welcoming space for musicians from all walks of life to perform for one another and receive feedback on songs in progress. Read Article Open details for In yearlong Songwriting Workshop, student and community musicians find their voices Science and Technology Study shows how machine learning could improve COVID-19 predictive models December 1, 2021 With the help of an advanced machine learning technique, researchers from Brown University suggest strategies for improving the performance of epidemiological models used to predict the course of pandemics. Read Article Open details for Study shows how machine learning could improve COVID-19 predictive models News and Events Kevin McLaughlin to complete extended term as Brown’s dean of the faculty November 30, 2021 The accomplished dean and professor, who oversaw the creation of renowned academic centers and recruited world-class faculty, will return to research and to teaching English, comparative literature and German studies after a sabbatical. Read Article Open details for Kevin McLaughlin to complete extended term as Brown’s dean of the faculty Arts and Humanities Brown senior studying issues impacting migrant communities wins prestigious Rhodes Scholarship November 22, 2021 One of just 32 Rhodes Scholars from the United States, Alexandra Ali Martínez will pursue a doctoral degree in migration studies at Oxford University. Read Article Open details for Brown senior studying issues impacting migrant communities wins prestigious Rhodes Scholarship News and Events Students unite to take a hands-on, DIY approach to improving air quality November 19, 2021 An event hosted by Brown’s School of Public Health brought students together to build low-cost, highly effective Corsi-Rosenthal cubes as air filters that will augment existing filtration systems at Brown. Read Article Open details for Students unite to take a hands-on, DIY approach to improving air quality Arts and Humanities Were the ancient Maya an agricultural cautionary tale? Maybe not, new study suggests November 16, 2021 Many believe climate change and environmental degradation caused the Maya civilization to fall — but a new survey shows that some Maya kingdoms had sustainable agricultural practices and high food yields for centuries. Read Article Open details for Were the ancient Maya an agricultural cautionary tale? Maybe not, new study suggests University Initiatives Scholars, leaders reflect on Brown’s transformative Slavery and Justice Report November 12, 2021 University leaders, faculty, alumni and students gathered on Friday, Nov. 12, to celebrate a new second edition of the report, discuss the original report’s legacy and debate what work remains at Brown and beyond. Read Article Open details for Scholars, leaders reflect on Brown’s transformative Slavery and Justice Report Science and Technology Brown physics student earns Ph.D. at age 89 November 12, 2021 After a 30-year career in medicine, Manfred Steiner returned to the classroom to fulfill a lifelong dream of becoming a physicist. Read Article Open details for Brown physics student earns Ph.D. at age 89 University Initiatives Fifteen years after its publication, Brown’s watershed Slavery and Justice Report is reinvigorated November 12, 2021 A second edition of Brown’s landmark report, which sparked a national conversation on higher education’s entanglements with racial slavery, offers new insights on the document’s persistent and evolving impact. Read Article Open details for Fifteen years after its publication, Brown’s watershed Slavery and Justice Report is reinvigorated News and Events Veterans Day ceremony at Brown honors veterans, welcomes new ROTC members November 11, 2021 U.S. Sen. Jack Reed, an Army veteran, joined University leaders, student veterans and Brown ROTC students who are future members of the Air Force, Army and Navy in celebrating the service of the nation’s military. Read Article Open details for Veterans Day ceremony at Brown honors veterans, welcomes new ROTC members Health and Medicine People of color, women and those with health conditions among veterans at high risk of food insecurity November 11, 2021 New findings about military veterans at the highest risk for food insecurity can help connect them to food they need for good health and inform interventions to address the larger, long-term issue. Read Article Open details for People of color, women and those with health conditions among veterans at high risk of food insecurity Student Life Pawtucket native, U.S. Army veteran combines Brown education with service to community November 8, 2021 Brehan Brady — a self-described working-class kid from Pawtucket who transferred to Brown from the Community College of Rhode Island — joins other student veterans in forging a new path after their military service. Read Article Open details for Pawtucket native, U.S. Army veteran combines Brown education with service to community Arts and Humanities Brown Library, HBCU Library Alliance awarded grant to create library leadership program November 8, 2021 With a grant from the Institute of Museum and Library Services, Brown’s library will partner with the HBCU Library Alliance and its member institutions to help library professionals become culturally sensitive, socially conscious leaders. Read Article Open details for Brown Library, HBCU Library Alliance awarded grant to create library leadership program Health and Medicine Study offers insights on why the elderly are more susceptible to COVID-19 November 8, 2021 New research reveals the cellular mechanism behind why the elderly, as well as those with certain overlapping diseases, are at risk of infection and death from the virus — and how this mechanism can potentially be used to protect them. Read Article Open details for Study offers insights on why the elderly are more susceptible to COVID-19 News and Events In visit to Brown, Salman Rushdie discusses freedom of speech, literary influences and more November 5, 2021 During a panel discussion and Q&A on politics, religion and literature, the acclaimed author urged audiences to maintain balance between preserving freedom of speech and fighting the looming specter of totalitarianism. Read Article Open details for In visit to Brown, Salman Rushdie discusses freedom of speech, literary influences and more Student Life For senior Elvia Perez, an entrepreneurial approach to tackling educational disparities November 4, 2021 With classroom experiences across the Open Curriculum and support from the Nelson Center for Entrepreneurship, Perez built on her own experiences to launch EmpowerU, a startup that connects low-income students to higher education resources. Read Article Open details for For senior Elvia Perez, an entrepreneurial approach to tackling educational disparities Science and Technology Vast patches of glassy rock in Chilean desert likely created by ancient exploding comet November 2, 2021 Heat from a comet exploding just above the ground fused the sandy soil into patches of glass stretching 75 kilometers, a study led by Brown University researchers found. Read Article Open details for Vast patches of glassy rock in Chilean desert likely created by ancient exploding comet News and Events Brown surpasses $3 billion BrownTogether fundraising goal early, will extend campaign November 2, 2021 Having reached its target more than a year ahead of schedule, the University will continue raising funds for student scholarships and faculty research, while establishing new goals in the months to come. Read Article Open details for Brown surpasses $3 billion BrownTogether fundraising goal early, will extend campaign Arts and Humanities Conversations on COVID: Studying the pandemic through cartoons October 28, 2021 A free lesson plan created by Brown Ph.D. student Michael Dorney uses political cartoons to teach high school students about American politics and society in the first year of the COVID-19 pandemic. Read Article Open details for Conversations on COVID: Studying the pandemic through cartoons Science and Technology Researchers show new strategy for detecting non-conformist particles called anyons October 26, 2021 By observing how strange particles called anyons dissipate heat, researchers have shown that they can probe the properties of these particles in systems that could be relevant for topological quantum computing. Read Article Open details for Researchers show new strategy for detecting non-conformist particles called anyons News and Events Brown to significantly expand financial aid and college access October 25, 2021 Buoyed by endowment performance and strength in fundraising, the University will invest in three initiatives supporting undergraduates and Providence students. Read Article Open details for Brown to significantly expand financial aid and college access News and Events Sternlicht Commons and Brown University Health & Wellness Center dedicated in weekend events October 23, 2021 University leaders and community members gathered for a series of events, tours and receptions that celebrated an innovative new space committed to helping students thrive. Read Article Open details for Sternlicht Commons and Brown University Health &amp; Wellness Center dedicated in weekend events Health and Medicine Brown researchers, local partners aim to reduce disparities in COVID-19 vaccination, testing October 22, 2021 New federal grants totaling $1.4 million are supporting a partnership between Brown, Progreso Latino, the Rhode Island Quality Institute and others to address barriers to testing and vaccination among high-risk populations. Read Article Open details for Brown researchers, local partners aim to reduce disparities in COVID-19 vaccination, testing Science and Technology New material could pave way for better, safer batteries October 21, 2021 A material derived from trees could potentially replace liquid electrolytes in next-generation batteries. Read Article Open details for New material could pave way for better, safer batteries Health and Medicine Physician-scientist Dr. Mukesh K. Jain appointed dean of medicine and biological sciences at Brown October 20, 2021 A cardiovascular specialist and health care leader at University Hospitals and Case Western Reserve University in Cleveland, Dr. Jain will lead biomedical research and education, and serve as Warren Alpert Medical School dean. Read Article Open details for Physician-scientist Dr. Mukesh K. Jain appointed dean of medicine and biological sciences at Brown News and Events Students, family members from across the globe reunite in Providence for Brown’s Family Weekend October 17, 2021 From forums on the Open Curriculum to an evening at the city’s renowned WaterFire, parents and loved ones joined their Brown students to get a taste of the University’s rich academic, cultural and civic life. Read Article Open details for Students, family members from across the globe reunite in Providence for Brown’s Family Weekend Brown to co-sponsor WaterFire Providence, host Family Weekend visitors for Oct. 16 lighting October 14, 2021 As Saturday evening’s lighting approaches, Brown graduate and WaterFire founder Barnaby Evans shared insights on Brown’s Open Curriculum, and WaterFire’s powerful economic and cultural impact in Providence. Read Article Open details for Brown to co-sponsor WaterFire Providence, host Family Weekend visitors for Oct. 16 lighting News and Events Fueled by soaring financial markets, Brown endowment return tops 50% October 14, 2021 For Fiscal Year 2021, the endowment provided $194 million for student scholarships, scientific research and other strategic priorities — investments in education and research expected to grow markedly in the coming years. Read Article Open details for Fueled by soaring financial markets, Brown endowment return tops 50% Health and Medicine Fewer patients sought treatment for kidney failure in early months of COVID-19 pandemic October 13, 2021 Substantially fewer patients initiated treatment for kidney failure in the beginning of the pandemic, a new study found, with Black patients in particular initiating treatment at significantly worse levels of kidney function. Read Article Open details for Fewer patients sought treatment for kidney failure in early months of COVID-19 pandemic Social Sciences Brown Class of 1991 Ph.D. graduate wins Nobel Prize in Economic Sciences October 11, 2021 Guido Imbens, a Stanford University economist who received his Ph.D. from Brown in 1991, was recognized for his major role in analyzing causal relationships in the social sciences. Read Article Open details for Brown Class of 1991 Ph.D. graduate wins Nobel Prize in Economic Sciences Newly returned Moon rock samples chronicle the dying days of lunar volcanism October 7, 2021 Jim Head, a planetary geologist at Brown, is working with colleagues from China to analyze rocks returned from the Chang’e 5 mission, which recently brought to Earth the first lunar samples retrieved in 45 years. Read Article Open details for Newly returned Moon rock samples chronicle the dying days of lunar volcanism News and Events PHOTOS: Staff and student celebrations at Brown offer chance to reconvene in community October 7, 2021 Brown employees and students turned out by the hundreds for Staff Appreciation Day and a Student Welcome Celebration, respectively, as the University continues its return to near normal operations. Read Article Open details for PHOTOS: Staff and student celebrations at Brown offer chance to reconvene in community Arts and Humanities In exhibition at Brown, Wampanoag artist draws on tradition to celebrate Indigenous rights October 7, 2021 On view at the Granoff Center for the Creative Arts, a belt made of quahog clam shells, deerskin and artificial sinew symbolizes and celebrates a United Nations resolution asserting the rights of Indigenous peoples worldwide. Read Article Open details for In exhibition at Brown, Wampanoag artist draws on tradition to celebrate Indigenous rights Science and Technology Computational biology researcher at Brown wins prestigious early-career NIH award October 5, 2021 With a $1.9 million Genomic Innovator Award, Ritambhara Singh will apply machine learning to better understand the genetic underpinnings of disease. Read Article Open details for Computational biology researcher at Brown wins prestigious early-career NIH award Health and Medicine Depression rates tripled and symptoms intensified during first year of COVID-19 October 5, 2021 A new study found that people with lower incomes and who experienced multiple COVID-related stressors were more likely to feel the toll of the pandemic, as socioeconomic inequities in mental health continue to widen. Read Article Open details for Depression rates tripled and symptoms intensified during first year of COVID-19 Science and Technology Pioneering computer science professor Andy van Dam honored as Computer History Museum fellow October 5, 2021 A virtual event celebrated the legendary Brown University computer science professor for his foundational work in computer graphics and five decades of influential teaching. Read Article Open details for Pioneering computer science professor Andy van Dam honored as Computer History Museum fellow Previous 1 2 3 4 5 6 Next Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown Social Navigation Facebook Instagram LinkedIn Snapchat Twitter YouTube Social Media Directory © Brown University Brown University For You Current Students Faculty Staff Parents & Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Featured Events For Journalists Topics Arts and Humanities Environment Health and Medicine News and Events Science and Technology Social Sciences Student Life University Initiatives Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation About Events For You Give to Brown All of Brown.edu People News Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search 2021 News Open details for 2021 News Bookmark this Page