COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW Details: Human Factors Psychology, Undergraduate Certificate Undergraduate CertificateHuman Factors Psychology All Programs Fairmount College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Psychology Wichita State's undergraduate certificate in human factors psychology provides you with the background and training needed to conduct research in a human factors lab. The certificate is ideal for both undergraduate and graduate students studying psychology—and other non-psychology majors. Learn how human factors psychology is the right fit for you. Contact Coordinator Curriculum To complete the certificate, you’ll take 17-19 credit hours and complete a research project in one of the department’s human factors labs. Courses include: Psychology of Statistics Research Methods in Psych Cognitive Psychology Human Factors Psychology Psychology of Perception Special Investigations View the curriculum How to enroll To add this certificate to your plan of study: Log into the myWSU portal, find the Student Tools box (center of the page) and click "Change my Major/Minor." Click continue (this will show your current major and minor). Click continue, then click on "Add a certificate" and choose your certificate program. Click continue and submit request. Go to the myWSU portal Inside the Program Students help create device that could detect driver drowsiness, make roads safer Psychology students can gain real-life industry experience before graduation. Drowsy driving injures and kills thousands of people in the United States each year. Alongside students in his Human Automation Interaction Lab, psychology professor Jibo He has taken on the task of helping change that. Students are learning real-life industry skills as they work with He to develop a device that could alert drowsy drivers and avoid potential accidents. The hope is that this device will make the roads safer. 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©