Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Carroll School of Management Carroll School Information For Centers Search BC.edu Links Boston College Chief Executives Club Menu Main Nav Boston College Chief Executives Club Boston College Chief Executives Club Events Back Back Close CEO Club Events Board of Governors Testimonials Membership Contact Close Events Directory A to Z Listing Search CEO Club site Search BC.edu Find pages or people Search Close Close Centers BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close The Boston College Chief Executives Club, long recognized as one of the country’s premier business forums, has traditionally gathered Boston's business leaders to events throughout the year. CEOs from around the globe share their experiences in a unique setting for candid conversation, networking, and connection with the region's most influential voices. CEO Club Highlights Stéphane Bancel Chief Executive Officer, Moderna On April 4, 2022, the Boston College Chief Executives Club welcomed Stéphane Bancel, chief executive officer of Moderna, who engaged in a fireside chat with Warren Zola, executive director of the Boston College Chief Executives Club. The conversation focused on Moderna’s role in developing an mRNA vaccine to combat COVID-19, the manufacturing challenges of the vaccine’s rapid deployment, and the impact this new platform will have on the future of medicine and healthcare. Stéphane Bancel has served as CEO of Cambridge-based Moderna since October 2011. The company employs approximately 1,800 people in Massachusetts. As of early February 2022, more than 205 million doses of Moderna's COVID-19 vaccine had been administered in the U.S. The vaccine was granted full approval by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration at the beginning of 2022, after being administered under emergency use authorization since late 2020. Watch Video to Learn More "Over the past 29 years, the Boston College Chief Executives Club has developed into a unique and vibrant community for the region's most influential business leaders." Warren K. Zola , Executive Director, Boston College Chief Executives Club Events Explore events from our 29-year history, with CEOs from over 150 companies around the world. View Events Podcasts Listen to insights from some of the world's most influential business leaders as they engage with our members. Listen Membership Learn more about applying to become a member. Learn More 2021 CEO Club Back To Top Back To Top Boston College Chief Executives Club Carroll School of Management 22 Stone Avenue Chestnut Hill, MA 02467-3808 617-552-0921 ceoclub@bc.edu Carroll School of Management Fulton Hall Boston College 140 Commonwealth Avenue Chestnut Hill, MA 02467-3809 About the Carroll School Undergraduate Graduate Faculty & Research Departments Centers Contact Accreditation Apply Visit Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkedIn Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College