Skip to main content Google Tag Manager Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Home Research Education News Events People About Giving Shop Contact Us Biology & Paleo Environment Tree Ring Lab Core Repository Geochemistry Hudson River Field Station Marine Geology & Geophysics Marine/Large Programs Office of Marine Operations Ocean & Climate Physics Seismology, Geology and Tectonophysics Rock & Ice Mechanics Lab Visitor Opportunities Core Repository Hudson River Field Station Open House Student & Educator Programs Rockland P.L.U.S. Day in the Life of the Hudson Secondary School Field Research Summer Intern Programs Next Gen Hudson River Educators Earth2Class Resources Polar Science Climate & Sustainability Hudson River Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs Earth Science News Lamont in the Media Newsletter News Archive All Events Earth Science Colloquium Series Biology & Paleo Environment Seminars Geochemistry Seminars Geodynamics Seminars Marine Geology & Geophysics/Seismology, Geology & Tectonophysics Seminars Ocean & Climate Physics Seminars Summer Stars Lecture Series History Director's Office Director's Reports Academic Affairs & Diversity Anti-Racism Commitment Alumni Awards The Vetlesen Prize Lamont Awards Outside Awards Climate Center Luminaries & Signature Events Annual Reports Lamont Features Map Careers Open Positions Postdoctoral Fellowships Research Visitors Visitor Info Contact & Directions Shuttle Schedule Campus Café Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory You are here: Home News Study Shows Forests May Take in Far More Toxic Mercury Than Thought Earth Sciences Study Shows Forests May Take in Far More Toxic Mercury Than Thought Atmospheric mercury in gaseous form appears to be adding heavily to the load. By Earth Institute July 12, 2021 Researchers studying a Massachusetts forest say that the toxic element mercury may be deposited in forests across the globe in much greater quantities than previously understood. The study suggests that the mercury load carried by forests has been underestimated by half. This mercury accumulates in soils, and ultimately runs off into streams and rivers, ending up in lakes and oceans. The study appears this week in the Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences. Mercury threatens fish, birds, mammals and humans. The pollutant is released into the atmosphere each year by coal-burning power plants, as well as gold mining and other industrial processes, and distributed by winds and water currents across the globe. Long-term exposure or consuming food containing high levels of it can lead to reproductive, immune, neurological and cardiovascular problems in people. The total global amount of mercury deposited to land currently is estimated at about 1,500 to 1,800 metric tons per year. It may actually be more than double that if further research at other forests confirms the results of the new study. For 16 months, the team measured exactly how mercury in the atmosphere gets deposited at Harvard Forest in Petersham, Mass., a nearly 4,000-acre site that includes deciduous trees such as red oak and red maple that shed their leaves every year. Instruments placed at various heights on the forest’s 100-foot-tall research tower looked at how mercury gets deposited from the tree canopy to the forest floor. Instruments on a 100-foot-tall tower in Howland Forest, Maine, take measurements in an ongoing study of mercury deposition. Newly published research was performed at Massachusetts’ Harvard Forest. (Courtesy Daniel Obrist, UMass Lowell) It turned out that three quarters of the deposition came from mercury in its gaseous form—five times greater than that deposited by rain and snow, and three times greater than that deposited through litterfall, in which mercury is transferred by leaves falling to the ground. Most previous studies did not address gaseous mercury directly; litterfall had previously been used by other researchers as a proxy for it. However, in the new study, the researchers measured gaseous deposition directly. Lead author Daniel Obrist of the University of Massachusetts, Lowell, said the study is the first to fully examine how mercury in the atmosphere is deposited at any rural forest. “Trees take up gaseous mercury from the atmosphere through their leaves, and as plants shed their leaves or die off, they basically transfer that atmospheric mercury to the ecosystems,” he said. “By measuring trace gases from the top of the canopy to the forest floor, we can understand how those gases move within the forest and where the various gases are taken up and emitted,” said study coauthor Roísín Commane, an atmospheric researcher at Columbia University’s Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory. The researchers are continuing their work at a second forest, in northern Maine. The state’s Howland Forest, a nearly 600-acre research site full of evergreens that retain their leaves year round, offers a distinctly different habitat. Assessing both forests will allow researchers to examine differences in mercury accumulation between different forest types, Obrist said. Other contributors to the study include students from UMass Lowell and Columbia; and collaborators from Harvard University; the Desert Research Institute in Reno, Nevada; the Northwest Institute of Eco-Environment and Resources; and the University of the Chinese Academy of Sciences in Lanzhou. The study was supported by the U.S. National Science Foundation; additional research support came from the U.S. Department of Energy. Adapted from a press release by the University of Massachusetts, Lowell. Tags air pollution forests Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory Mercury water pollution News May 31, 2022 Aurora Barone Looks for Equitable Ways to Cut Carbon Emissions May 27, 2022 Sylhet City, Geology, and Packing Up May 25, 2022 Community-Led Science Uncovers High Air Pollution From Fracking in Ohio County May 20, 2022 Start of the Mini-Field School May 17, 2022 Lazy Bears and Confused Birds: What a Warming Planet Means for Wildlife Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory61 Route 9W · Palisades, NY 10964 Phone 845-359-2900 Contact Us [email protected] Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close