Skip to main content Close Search Tools 25Live Canvas Catalyst Directory IT Help Library MyUW Office365 Panopto Scout Workday Zoom Search Search Request info Apply Admissions Admissions Freshmen expand_more Freshman Admission Requirements add College Academic Distribution Requirements (CADRs) College-Level Work In High School Homeschooled Students Pathways To Promise Freshman FAQs International Freshmen add Community College Option Upcoming School Visits Transfer Students expand_more Direct Transfer Agreement (DTA) Guaranteed Admission Dual Enrollment Program International Transfer Students Transfer Admissions Requirements Transfer Credit Policies add Course Equivalency Guide Transfer FAQs Graduate Students Majors & Degrees expand_more Schools & Programs Tuition & Financial Aid expand_more Cost of Attendance Net Price Calculator The Husky Promise Tuition add Other Fees Using the GI Bill Visit Campus expand_more Campus Tours add Virtual Campus Tour Future Husky Events Group Visits Meet Your Advisor Request Information Apply Now expand_more How to apply: Freshman add English Language Proficiency Submitting Standardized Test Scores Submitting Transcripts Writing Your Personal Statement How to apply: Transfer add Achievements And Activities English Language Proficiency Submitting Standardized Test Scores Submitting Transcripts Writing Your Personal Statement How to apply: Graduate I applied. Now What? I was Admitted add Confirm Your Enrollment Parent FAQ Important Dates MyUW Map Tools Freshmen Your first year, and throughout your time at UW Tacoma, you will be in small classes taught 100 percent by faculty who feel inspired to seek innovative approaches to teaching, have a passion for research and are engaged with the region -- there are no auditorium-style or TA-taught classes. Faculty here believe in a small learning environment, where professors and students all get to know each other in a collaborative, creative learning process. Not sure if you are a Freshman or having trouble understanding your class standing? Review our guide. Admissions Requirements Make sure you're ready to apply! Check Requirements Pathways to Promise Pathways to Promise was established to help break down bearers and open dialog about post-secondary education options. learn more Meet Your Advisors Our admissions team can get you answers to any questions you may have. Say Hello We Support You! College Takes Work There are assignments to do, deadlines to meet, requirements to fulfill and forms to complete. The staff and faculty at UW Tacoma are here to help. University Academic Advising will help you sort out your class schedule and make sure you’re on track to graduate. Need help with homework? The Teaching & Learning Center inside UW Tacoma’s Library has experienced tutors waiting to assist on most subjects. Pack Advisors and First-Gen Fellows foster a successful transition into the UW Tacoma community and the Center for Equity & Inclusion aims to create safe and welcoming spaces to cultivate our diverse campus community. Life doesn’t stop when you step on campus. You might get sick. You might find yourself stressed and in need of someone to talk to. We have a Counseling Center on campus and our partnership with Franciscan Healthcare ensures you have access to a doctor any time of day. There may also come a time when you need a little more. The Pantry provides students with free food and our Office of Student Advocacy & Support can work with you to create a long term solution to whatever difficulty you’re experiencing. Our Veteran & Military Resource Center assists veterans, active-duty members and their families with making the most of their educational benefits. The VMRC offers campus programming for our military-connected students. Breadcrumb Home Admissions Freshmen Contact Admissions email uwtinfo@uw.edu phone_iphone 253-692-4742 ACADEMICS Academic advising Academic calendar Canvas Library Schools and programs Study Abroad Teaching and Learning Center CAMPUS Campus Safety Equity & Inclusion Financial Aid Housing Information Technology Student Life University Y Student Center ABOUT UW TACOMA Administration Admissions Institutional Research Jobs Parking & transportation Research UW Alerts UWNetID login UW Seattle | UW Bothell © 2022 University of Washington Tacoma 1900 Commerce Street, Tacoma, WA 98402-3100 Contact us | Terms of Use | Privacy Policy