Skip to main content Service Request Penn Homepage Penn Sustainability Penn Connects Search this site Main menu About Services Standards & Policies Sustainability Capital Process Maps Planned Events Planned Events Print Various Divisions at the University control specific spaces; not all spaces are managed by FRES. Information on this page applies only to those outdoor spaces managed by FRES: Shoemaker Green, Highline Green, Kane Park, Penn Park Picnic Grove, Penn Park South Green. For information on using/renting other campus spaces, please visit https://www.upenn.edu/services/event-planning. The University has rules and regulations for outdoor events. Below are rules that apply for all outdoor events. Event planners must contact appropriate Building Administrators to obtain permission and coordinate the use of the area. Event planners must contact Facilities & Real Estate Services to schedule for trash and recycling bin delivery. Fees will be assessed for this service. Lawns may not be used within two (2) days, after significant rainfall (greater than 1/2") or when lawn is obviously wet and spongy. Facilities & Real Estate Services reserves the right to conduct pre- and post event inspections of the site to document conditions. Temporary structures for events or gatherings such as tents, tables, and chairs or related equipment shall be set up on protective surfaces such as temporary wood flooring on hard surfaces, or wood chips on lawns. No equipment or related materials shall be left on lawns and must be removed within 24 hours of the event. No outdoor cooking on plazas, terraces, patios, etc. is permitted. When cooking on lawn areas and parking lots, protect ground surface with a plywood covering of approximately twice the area of the cooking surface. Note: Open fire and cooking is prohibited in some parking facilities. When special events are planned where existing sanitary facilities are absent or inadequate, the sponsor will be required to obtain portable facilities. One (1) porta-potty is required for each anticipated 100 participants. Facilities & Real Estate Services should be contacted for access to power or water sources, or the use of golf carts for transportation of equipment. Facilities & Real Estate Services will determine the necessity of temporary fencing to protect plantings or control entry for major events. The cost of fencing is the responsibility of the user. Distribution and consumption of alcoholic beverages must be in compliance with state, county and local zoning ordinances and laws and University regulations. All clean up is the responsibility of the user. Any additional clean up or repair required to return the area to its condition prior to the event will be provided by Facilities & Real Estate Services at the expense of the user. Information on this page applies only to those outdoor spaces managed by FRES: Shoemaker Green, Highline Green, Kane Park, Penn Park Picnic Grove, Penn Park South Green. Requests for the above services at FRES-managed spaces can be made using the FRES Open Space Rental Request Form. If you have questions related to outdoor events only, at FRES-managed spaces, please contact Joe Haughey at 215-573-9382 or jhaughey@upenn.edu . Services Maintenance and Renovation Campus and Building Plans Landscape Planned Events Real Estate Signage Moving Services Info for: Penn Community Facilities & Real Estate Services 3101 Walnut St Philadelphia, Pa 19104 Emergency/Vehicular Address: 3160 Chestnut Street (proceed to the glass Pavilion at end of the parking lot) © 2022 University of Pennsylvania Report accessibility issues and get help » Webmaster Contact » Service Request Penn Homepage Penn Sustainability Penn Connects About Mission Organizational Chart Departments Campus History Campus Plan News Divisional Overview Vendor Information Directions to FRES Services Maintenance and Renovation Campus and Building Plans Landscape Planned Events Real Estate Signage Moving Services Standards & Policies Standards Policies Safety Procedures Sustainability Energy Management Built Environment Waste Management and Recycling Collaborative Efforts Capital Process Initiate a Project Capital Planning Facilities Renewal Maps and Locations Building Locations Penn Connects Public Art Bike Racks Discover Penn Public Parking Printing the Campus Map PennAccess Location List Contacts Penn Community Penn Homepage