Brown University Quick Exit General Health Physical Health Acne Asthma Breast Exams Bronchitis Colds Concussion Headaches Meningitis Mononucleosis Sleep Seasonal Flu Sun Safety and Skin Cancer Stomach Flu Testicular Self-Exams Travel and Health Yeast Infection Emotional Wellbeing Mindfulness Sleep Stress Self-Care Techniques for Stress Relief Wellness on Campus Social Wellbeing Community, Connection and Coping: Remote Resources Consent Economic Stress Roommate Relationships Unlearning Toxic Masculinity Reproductive Health Abortion Adoption Amenorrhea Bacterial Vaginosis Colposcopy Erectile Dysfunction Pregnancy Gender Care GYN Visits HPV Vaccine Menstruation Pelvic Inflammatory Disease Pregnancy Tests Premature Ejaculation Prenatal Care Testicular Self-Exams Accessing Care Gender Care GYN Visits LGBTQ Health Care at Health Services Men's Health Exams Pregnancy Tests STI Testing Options Resources and Links Nutrition & Eating Concerns Eating Well at Brown Being a Vegetarian Dietary Guidelines Eating Off Meal Plan Meal Plan And Dining Information Supplements Eating Concerns and Body Image Body Image Concerns Eating Concerns Help at Brown Sports Nutrition Relative Energy Deficiency in Sport (RED-S) Sports Nutrition Accessing Care Help at Brown Worried about a Friend Sexual Health Sex 101 SHAG! Erectile Dysfunction Orgasm Premature Ejaculation Sex and Alcohol Sex Toys Sexually Explicit Media Contraception Birth Control Pills Cervical Cap Condoms Depo-Provera Emergency Contraception Fertility Awareness Method Implant Internal Condoms IUD Ortho Evra (The Patch) Ring Spermicides and Lubricants The Recent Election & Contraception Access Withdrawal (Pull Out Method) Reproductive Health Abortion Adoption Amenorrhea Colposcopy Erectile Dysfunction Pregnancy GYN Visits HPV Vaccine Menstruation Pelvic Inflammatory Disease Pregnancy Tests Prenatal Care Testicular Self-Exams Yeast Infection Safer Sex Ship n SHAG! Sexual Health and Safer Sex During Covid-19 Abstinence Condoms Dental Dams Internal Condoms Post Exposure Prophylaxis (PEP) Pre Exposure Prophylaxis (PrEP) Safer Sex Withdrawal (Pull Out Method) STIs AIDS/HIV Bacterial Vaginosis Chlamydia Colposcopy Gonorrhea Hepatitis B Herpes HPV and Genital Warts HPV Vaccine Molluscum Contagiosum Oral Sex and STIs Pelvic Inflammatory Disease Pubic Lice and Scabies Sexually Transmitted Infections Syphilis Talking with a Partner STI Testing Options Trichomoniasis Urinary Tract Infections Yeast Infection Sexual Assault & Dating Violence Get Help Sexual Assault Response Line SHARE Advocates Dating Violence First Five Days After an Assault Male Survivors Sexual Violence and Assault Sexual Harassment Stalking Help a Friend SHARE Advocates How to Help a Friend Get Involved in Prevention Interrupting the Red Zone: How we keep each other safe Culture of Respect Collective Sexual Assault Peer Education (SAPE) Help Prevent Sexual Assault Unlearning Toxic Masculinity Relationships and Communication Consent Dating Violence Learn More Common Reactions to Sexual Violence and Assault Predatory Drugs Sexual Misconduct and Title IX Sexual Violence: Key Terms Resources and Links Alcohol & Other Drugs Alcohol Alcohol and Your Body Recognizing a Problem Risks and Realities Sex and Alcohol Ways to Cut Down Other Drugs Caffeine Cocaine Ecstasy Energy Drinks GHB Inhalants Ketamine LSD Marijuana Methamphetamine Predatory Drugs Psilocybin (Mushrooms) Rohypnol Tobacco Smokeless Tobacco Smoking Cessation Tobacco Learn More Law and Policy Summary Educational Links Accessing Care Resources at Brown Off Campus Resources Calling EMS How to Help a Friend Quit Smoking How to Talk to a Friend about Drinking or Drug Use Google Tag Manager Physical Health Sun Safety and Skin Cancer Numerous studies have found that skin cancer is the most common type of cancer in the United States, with melanoma as one of the most common cancers diagnosed among young adults. Ultraviolet (UV) light exposure outdoors or indoors (tanning beds) can increase your risk of skin cancer. UV exposure is a major contributor to visible skin aging (wrinkles, leathery skin, etc.). Skin cancer is the most common cancer in the United States. The two most common skin cancers (basal cell and squamous cell carcinomas) are highly curable, but can be disfiguring and costly. They can often occur on the face and require highly specialized surgery to treat! Melanoma (the third most common skin cancer) can be deadly and is one of the most common cancers in young adults. Sources for the information on this page: 1. Skin Cancer. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. http://www.cdc.gov/cancer/skin/basic_info/sun-safety.htm. Published 2014. Accessed July 11, 2016. 2. Hillhouse, J. 2007. "Keep the skin you were born in!" 3. Tanning. Skin Cancer Foundation. http://www.skincancer.org/prevention/tanning. Published 2016. Accessed February 14, 2017. What are the factors that contribute to a higher risk of skin cancer? Risk factors for skin cancer include: Light skin, or skin that burns, freckles or reddens easily Large number of moles Blue or green eyes Blond or red hair Personal or family history of skin cancer Sun exposure History of sunburns, especially in early life History of indoor tanning The average tanning bed gives off 2 to 10 times more UVA radiation than the sun Using tanning beds before the age of 35 increases a person's risk for developing melanoma by 75% What are sun safety practices that can prevent skin cancer? Seeking shade Wearing: Sunscreen Choose broad spectrum UVA and UVB, SPF 30 or higher Reapply every 2 hours (even with higher SPF) and after swimming, sweating or toweling off Protective clothing Look for sun protective clothing with Ultraviolet Protection Factor (UPF) rating Long sleeves/pants that are kept dry and darker colors are best A hat Wide-brimmed hats are best (ears are often neglected and subject to UV damage) Sunglasses Sunglasses serve to cover your eye area, which can be another site of UV damage What kind of sunscreen should I look for? Are some ingredients harmful? Be sure to select a sunscreen that is broad-spectrum, water-resistant and SPF 30 or higher. Mineral-based sunscreens are recommended for people with sensitive skin. Even if you use water resistant sunscreen, re-apply it every 2 hours or after swimming or sweating. The U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) regulates over-the-counter drugs including sunscreen. Claims that describe sunscreen ingredients as toxic have not been proven. However, the association between sun exposure and skin cancer is well established and sunscreen has been proven as an effective prevention method. So, is sunscreen safe to use? Yes! Click here for a full discussion of this issue on the American Academy of Dermatology website. If I have darker skin, do I need to wear sunscreen? Sunscreen is recommended for people of all skin tones. Skin cancer can affect anyone. In people with darker skin, skin cancers are more often diagnosed in later stages making them more difficult to treat. This can be due to skin cancers more commonly showing up in areas that do not have as much sun exposure such as palms, soles, groin, inside of mouth, and under nails. What about getting enough Vitamin D? Vitamin D amounts from sun exposure are inconsistent and the risk of skin cancer remains. The American Academy of Dermatology (AAD) recommends obtaining Vitamin D from a healthy diet, fortified foods or beverages, and/or Vitamin D supplements. I’m just going for a short walk on a cloudy day– can I skip the sunscreen? If you are going outside for even a short time, you should wear sunscreen as even short durations can result in cumulative exposure to damaging UV rays. Also, a “quick trip” sometimes turns into a longer trip than expected resulting in more sun exposure than intended. It is a good idea to wear sunscreen even if it is cloudy. Up to 80% of sun’s UV rays can still reach your skin through the clouds. Is tanning without a burn ok? Can a "base tan" protect me from sunburn? Any change in your natural skin color is a sign of potential skin damage. A “base tan” is estimated to offer an SPF level of 3-4 and is inadequate for protection from sunburn. The risks of obtaining a “base tan” outweigh the benefits as sunscreen is much more effective. Did you know? Brown University has been recognized for skin cancer prevention. Brown University has been recognized as a Skin Smart Campus by The National Council on Skin Cancer Prevention. Brown promotes skin cancer prevention policies and education and has pledged to keep indoor tanning devices off of campus and affiliated buildings. The Indoor Tan-Free Skin Smart Campus Initiative is sponsored by the National Council on Skin Cancer Prevention in response to the 2014 U.S. Surgeon General’s Call to Action to Prevent Skin Cancer which concluded that there is a strong association between increased risk of skin cancer and indoor tanning use. Related links American Academy of Dermatology National Council on Skin Cancer Prevention Centers for Disease Control Melanoma Foundation: Why is Tanning Dangerous? Skin Smart Campus About BWell: Quick Links About Us Staff Confidential Appointments Sexual Assault Response Line Workshops Peer Education Programs Health Empowerment Tools PHONE NUMBERS 401.863-2794 Health Promotion 401.863-3953 Health Services 401.863-6000 Sexual Assault Response Line 401.863-4111 EMS 401.863-3476 Counseling & Psychological Services 401.863-4111 DPS Make an Appointment What is Peer Education? Learn about BWell's Peer Education Programs! Get involved in empowerment and prevention work at Brown. Get Involved Meet Our Staff About Us Make an Appointment Brown University BWell Health Promotion Health and Wellness Brown University Box 1928 450 Brook Street Providence, Rhode Island, 02912 Phone 401-863-2794 Fax 401-863-7953 [email protected] © 2022 Brown University Connect: [email protected] Related Offices Brown EMS Counseling and Psychological Services Health Services Social Media BWell on Facebook SHAG on Facebook BURP on Facebook Health Services on Facebook