Skip to main content About SMU About SMU Maps & Directions Annual Report SMU Magazine Strategic Plan George W. Bush Presidential Center Academics Overview Majors & Minors Libraries Research Continuing & Professional Education Study Abroad International Student and Scholar Services Cox School of Business Dedman College of Humanities and Sciences Dedman School of Law Lyle School of Engineering Meadows School of the Arts Perkins School of Theology Simmons School of Education Human Development The Guildhall Admission Undergraduate Admission Graduate Admission Apply Now Visit SMU Financial Aid Request Information Parent Information Virtual Tour Athletics Mustangs Tickets Recreational Sports Campus Life Research Quick Links Academic Calendar Employment Events Calendar Giving to SMU SMU Store Student Affairs Bush Center Skip to main content Prospective Students Current Students Alumni More Faculty/Staff News Media Parents Skip to main content Apply Apply Give Give Follow Us Follow Us Twitter Follow Us Facebook Follow Us Instagram Follow Us LinkedIn Follow Us YouTube Follow Us Social Stream Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. About SMU About SMU Maps & Directions Annual Report SMU Magazine Strategic Plan George W. Bush Presidential Center Administration A nationally ranked comprehensive research university with eight degree-granting schools, SMU is a distinguished center for teaching and research located near the heart of Dallas. SMU's more than 12,000 students benefit from small classes, research opportunities, leadership development, international study and innovative programs. The University is strengthened by its partnership with the Dallas region, a global center of commerce and culture. SMU students, faculty and alumni are changing the world through their chosen fields, civic engagement and service to society. Academics Overview Majors & Minors Libraries Research Study Abroad Continuing & Professional Education Online Learning International Student and Scholar Services Cox School of Business Dedman College of Humanities and Sciences Dedman School of Law Lyle School of Engineering Meadows School of the Arts Moody School of Graduate and Advanced Studies Perkins School of Theology Simmons School of Education & Human Development The Guildhall Teaching and research fuse into breakthrough experiences in one of the brightest academic communities in the world. Our 11:1 student-to-faculty ratio means students build strong relationships with outstanding faculty who champion their ambition and drive, whether it’s for tackling climate change, fighting cancer or pursuing another passion. Admission Undergraduate Admission Graduate Admission Apply Now Visit SMU Financial Aid Request Information Parent Information Virtual Tour SMU's singular approach to integrating rigorous learning with hands-on experience will prepare you to achieve your educational goals and expand your world in ways you never imagined. Ours is a community of people forging their own paths. We'd like to help you shape yours. Apply Now Schedule a Visit Athletics SMU Athletics Tickets Recreational Sports SMU offers 17 Division 1 sports programs and more than 30 club and intramural sports. We prepare student-athletes for life by equipping them with the knowledge and skills required to become valuable citizens and leaders in their communities. Research Campus Life Quick Links Academic Calendar Events Calendar Employment Giving to SMU SMU Store Meadows Museum George W. Bush Presidential Center Student Affairs Virtual Tour SMU is one of the rare universities affiliated with a presidential library. The George W. Bush Presidential Center (left) offers unique learning experiences to SMU students – including free admission to museum exhibits – plus research opportunities for faculty and scholars from around the world. Bush Center Search Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. ☰ Right to Know and Other Legal Disclosures SMU Right to Know and Other Legal Disclosures Right to Know Right to Know Southern Methodist University is pleased to provide information regarding academic programs, enrollment, financial aid, Campus Security, athletics, and services for individuals with disabilities. The information is conveniently accessible on the Internet at www.smu.edu/srk. You also may obtain printed versions of this detailed information by contacting the appropriate point of contact. Disclosure of this information is pursuant to requirements of the Higher Education Act and the Campus Security Act. Academic Programs Educational Programs, Instructional Facilities, and Faculty are listed in the Undergraduate and Graduate Catalogs. Names of associations, agencies, or governmental bodies that accredit, approve, or license the institution and its programs and the procedures by which documents describing that activity may be reviewed. Enrollment Graduation rates The completion or graduation rate of the institution's first-time, certificate- or degree-seeking, full-time undergraduate students. Privacy of Student Education Records The Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act (FERPA) governs Southern Methodist University's maintenance and disclosure of a student's education records. FERPA provides students the right to inspect and review their education records and to seek amendment of those records that they believe to be inaccurate, misleading, or otherwise in violation of their privacy rights. Further, FERPA prevents SMU from disclosing personally identifiable information about a student to outside third parties, except under specific circumstances outlined in SMU's Policy Manual. Withdrawal Requirements and procedures for officially withdrawing from the institution. For More Information about Southern Methodist University explore the U.S. Department of Education's College Navigator page. Financial Aid Financial assistance available to students enrolled in the institution. Costs of attending the institution, including tuition and fees charged to full-time and part-time students, estimates of costs for necessary books and supplies, estimates of typical charges for room and board, estimates of transportation costs for students, and any additional cost of a program in which a student is enrolled or expresses a specific interest. Student Employment - The Federal Work Study Program is a need-based work opportunity. Students who are eligible can apply for on or off-campus work study jobs, and earn the Federal Work Study award as hourly wages. Eligibility is based on financial need, determined by the Financial Aid Office each year a student has submitted a FASFA. Terms and conditions under which students receiving William D. Ford Federal Direct Loan assistance may obtain deferral of the repayment of the principal and interest of the loan for: service under the Peace Corps Act; service under the Domestic Volunteer Service Act of 1973; or comparable service as a volunteer for a tax-exempt organization of demonstrated effectiveness in the field of community service. The requirements for return of Title IV grant or loan assistance. Enrollment status of students participating in SMU study-abroad programs, for the purpose of applying for federal financial aid. Student Financials Tuition and Fees Undergraduate Graduate Living On Campus Housing Dining Optional Fees Financial Policies Administrative Fees and Deposits Payment Options Webpay Refund Policy Students with Disabilities A description of services for individuals with disabilities can be found at Disability Accommodations & Success Strategies (DASS). Athletics Athletic program participation rates and financial aid support. Graduation Success Rate Report of student athletes. Athletic program operating expenses and revenues. Coaching staffs. Equity in Athletics Data Report Campus Police Southern Methodist University's Annual Security Report includes policies and statistics for the previous three years concerning reported crimes that occurred on campus, in certain off-campus buildings or property owned or controlled by SMU, and on public property within or immediately adjacent to and accessible from the campus. Crime Statistics, Campus Jurisdictions, and Crime Definitions Crime Notifications (Timely Warnings) Sex Offender Registration - Main Campus Alcohol Policy Drug Policy Sexual Assault Policy General Crime Prevention Tips Reporting Crimes and Police Department Contacts Student Appeals and Complaints Student with complaints and/or grievances must first seek to resolve them with Southern Methodist University through its processes described below. In all instances and with all offices and representatives of the University, all complaints are handled impartially and in a timely manner by professionals in the subject area of the complaint. No adverse action will be taken against anyone filing a formal complaint or grievance with Southern Methodist University. Southern Methodist University operates with integrity in all issues and is dedicated to preserving the rights of all members of the University community. Categories for which students may wish to reach out for advice and assistance and/or to submit an appeal or register a complaint are as follows: academics, code of conduct, discrimination, financial issues, honor code and privacy issues. An overview of the roles, responsibilities and procedures for complainants and the University is outlined in each of the areas below. a. Academic Appeals and Petitions www.smu.edu/capappeal b. Student Code of Conduct www.smu.edu/StudentAffairs/StudentLife/StudentHandbook/ConductCode c. Office of Institutional Access and Equity www.smu.edu/IAE d. Financial Responsibility and Confidentiality www.smu.edu/EnrollmentServices/FinancialAndConfidentiality e. Honor Code www.smu.edu/StudentAffairs/StudentLife/StudentHandbook/HonorCode f. Appeal of Grade Enrollment and Academic Records g. Academic Grievance and Appeals Procedures for Students with Disabilities www.smu.edu/capappeal h. Appeal from financial aid decisions, including financial aid decisions based on lack of satisfactory academic progress Enrollment and Academic Records i. Policy for Non-Renewal of Athletic Aid www.smumustangs.com/compliance In addition to the right to use internal University complaint procedures, every student has the right under federal law to use complaint processes provided by the state in which his or her campus is located. State-Specific Information for Appeals and Complaints Texas. For complaints regarding programs in Texas, students should contact the Texas Higher Education Coordinating Board, Office of General Counsel, PO Box 12788, Austin TX 78711-2788; email: studentcomplaints@thecb.state.tx.us. Additional information about the Texas student complaints process may be found at www.thecb.state.tx.us (“College Readiness and Success” link). New Mexico. For complaints regarding programs in New Mexico, students should contact the New Mexico Higher Education Department, 2044 Galisteo Street, Suite 4, Santa Fe NM 87505-2100; telephone 505-476-8400. Additional information about the New Mexico student complaints process may be found online at www.hed.state.nm.us or by contacting private.schools@state.nm.us. Right to Know » Academics » Athletics » Contacts » Financial Aid Information » Student Financials » Students with Disabilities » Voter Registration and Voting Information » Campus Police Apply Visit School Cox School of Business Dedman College of Humanities and Sciences Dedman School of Law Lyle School of Engineering Meadows School of the Arts Moody School of Graduate and Advanced Studies Perkins School of Theology Simmons School of Education and Human Development Explore SMU Magazine Academic Calendar Events Calendar Guildhall Continuing and Professional Education Athletics Employment at SMU Campus Reporting a Bias Incident Report Sexual Misconduct Emergency Preparedness Student Life George W. Bush Presidential Center SMU Libraries Meadows Museum Tate Lecture Series Contact Us Maps and Directions Legal Disclosures © Southern Methodist University, PO Box 750100, Dallas, TX 75275 twitter facebook instagram linkedin youtube share