Skip to main content Temple University Explore Temple’s Schools and Colleges Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Support Temple Temple University Search Site Search Full Menu Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees President History & Traditions Temple Health News & Media Offices Public Information Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Development Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Libraries Maternal and Child Health Certificate (Graduate) You are here Home Academics Degrees and Programs Maternal and Child Health Certificate (Graduate) Apply Request More Info Maternal and Child Health Certificate (Graduate) Accreditation Admissions Required Courses Maternal and Child Health Certificate (Graduate) Develop the necessary knowledge and skills to support Title V programs, which focus on improving the health of mothers and children, with the Maternal and Child Health Certificate (Graduate) in Temple’s College of Public Health. This 12-credit graduate certificate prepares students to critically evaluate and understand maternal and child health populations and identify evidence-based programs to improve health and reduce disparities. The certificate is intended for Temple University students at the master’s or doctoral level in public health, psychology, social work and sociology who are interested in expanding their knowledge and skill base in maternal and child health to inform their research and training in their current degree program. Jointly administered by the departments of Social and Behavioral Sciences and Epidemiology and Biostatistics, the program prepares students to address maternal and child health issues at local, national and global levels. Graduates of this program will develop an in-depth understanding of gaps in existing maternal and child health programs, how U.S. health systems are organized and financed, human growth and development, infant and maternal mortality, mortality factors, related morbidities, and the co-occurrence of communicable and noncommunicable diseases. Classes & Curriculum Most of the courses in the Maternal and Child Health Certificate (Graduate) curriculum are offered in both on-campus and online formats. The certificate’s flexible curriculum and format options allow students to tailor the program to meet their individual training needs and interests. Students may take up to four semesters to complete this 12-credit graduate certificate. Classes you are likely to take as part of the certificate curriculum include the following. Maternal and Child Health Reproductive and Perinatal Epidemiology Learn more about the courses comprising the Maternal and Child Health Certificate (Graduate) curriculum. What sets our Maternal and Child Health Certificate apart? Temple’s College of Public Health is one of the largest and most diverse CEPH-accredited schools, incorporating health services disciplines and traditional public health programs. This interdisciplinary environment is highly relevant to training graduate students in maternal and child health competencies and developing a transdisciplinary workforce. Located in Philadelphia, a city that consistently ranks low on many maternal and child health indicators, the College of Public Health and its graduate programs capitalize on these training opportunities by sustaining a long tradition of cultivating maternal and child health agency partnerships throughout the region. Careers The need for public health professionals who have completed advanced coursework and can demonstrate working knowledge of maternal and child health issues is growing rapidly, in the U.S. and abroad. Students who complete the Maternal and Child Health Certificate (Graduate) will be in high demand as Title V programs are on the rise in an effort to reduce health and racial disparities. Tuition & Fees In keeping with Temple’s commitment to access and affordability, this Graduate Certificate offers a competitive level of tuition with multiple opportunities for financial support. Tuition rates are set annually by the university and are affected by multiple factors, including program degree level (undergraduate or graduate), course load (full- or part-time), in-state or out-of-state residency, and more. These tuition costs apply to the 2021–2022 academic year. Pennsylvania resident: $1,020.00 per credit Out-of-state: $1,398.00 per credit Learn more about our tuition and fees. Our Advisors All students receive basic advising regarding course sequencing and schedules of courses in the certificate from the CPH advising infrastructure. If you have questions about this certificate program, contact the following staff members. Anne Frankel is a program director for the Maternal and Child Health Certificate (Graduate). Email: anne.frankel@temple.edu Aimee Palumbo is a program director for the Maternal and Child Health Certificate (Graduate). Email: aimee.palumbo@temple.edu Related Graduate Degrees Social and Behavioral Sciences MPH Social and Behavioral Sciences PhD HP-MACH-GRAD Additional Program Information Visit College Site Go back to AcademicsMore in Maternal and Child Health Certificate (Graduate) Accreditation Admissions Required Courses Apply Request More Info Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Calendar Policies Social Media TUportal TUmail Accessibility Careers at Temple Safety & Emergency Information Ethics & Compliance Privacy Statement Professional Licensure Disclosures Follow Temple University Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community. Apply Request More Info