Accessibility Options: Skip to Content Skip to Search Skip to footer Office of Disability Services Request Assistance 305-284-2374 Display: Default High Contrast University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Apply About UM Schools School of Architecture College of Arts & Sciences Miami Herbert Business School School of Communication School of Education & Human Development College of Engineering School of Law Rosenstiel School of Marine & Atmospheric Science Miller School of Medicine Frost School of Music School of Nursing & Health Studies The Graduate School Division of Continuing & International Education Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Search Tools People Search Class Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Search UM (Mobile) Apply Apply About UM Schools Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Academics Admissions Student Life Research UHealth Athletics Tools Popular Links Coronavirus Information News@TheU People Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement Home Search Site OVPRS Websites Research and Scholarship Home Research Development and Evaluation Research Capacity and Operations Research Administration Regulatory Affairs and Assessment Research Navigator Research Lifecycle 1. Get Started 2. Identify Funding Opportunities 3. Write Proposal 4. Submit Proposal 5. Conduct Research 6. Commercialize Work Learners Key Partners About Vice Provost for Research and Scholarship Leadership Administrative Areas Centers and Institutes Core Facilities and Shared Resources Sign up for a Listserv Events Calendar Contact Us Research Lifecycle Learners Key Partners About Site Feedback Search Public Voices Fellowship Arts & Humanities Fellowship Grant Writing Support Provost's Awards Research Lifecycle 1. Get Started 2. Identify Funding Opportunities 3. Write Proposal 4. Submit Proposal 5. Conduct Research 6. Commercialize Work Learners Key Partners About Vice Provost for Research and Scholarship Leadership Administrative Areas Centers and Institutes Core Facilities and Shared Resources Sign up for a Listserv Events Calendar Contact Us Site Feedback OVPRS Websites Research and Scholarship Home Research Development and Evaluation Research Capacity and Operations Research Administration Regulatory Affairs and Assessment Research Navigator Public Voices Fellowship Arts & Humanities Fellowship Grant Writing Support Provost's Awards $sLabel Home About Research and Scholarship Administrative Areas Research Development and Evaluation Public Voices Fellowship AAA Public Voices Fellowship Arts & Humanities Fellowship Grant Writing Support Provost's Awards Public Voices Fellowship The year-long fellowship provides a cohort of twenty thought leaders, all of whom are underrepresented in the public sphere (including women), with extraordinary support, leadership skills, and knowledge to ensure their ideas shape not only their fields, but also the great public conversations of our age. The goal of this fellowship is to increase the public impact of University's top thought leaders who are women and/or underrepresented minorities, to ensure that their ideas help shape important contemporary conversations. Led by the OpEd Project, fellows explore how credibility works, how ideas spread, when and why minds change, and how ideas play out over time and space. The fellowship also provides the high-level support and media connections to become influential on a large scale. Fellows completing the one-year fellowship will join a national network of peers, allowing for knowledge-sharing and innovation across institutions. The fellowship has a track record of great results, generating personal, professional, and public outcomes with far-reaching implications. The University’s first cohort of fellows were highly successful and have published, so far, over 40 op-eds, including in the Washington Post, US News & World Report, Scientific American, Paris Review, Boston Review, Ms. Magazine, Chicago Tribune, The Hill, Slate, and Psychology Today. Many of these successes also led to expansive impact in the public sphere, driving interview requests, expert citations, invitations to speak at conferences, congressional funds and more. 2021 Request for Applications: Due August 13 Infosession August 2, 2021, 5:00 p.m. An opportunity to learn about the OpdEd Project, ask questions, and learn from panelists who will share their experience about the impact of the fellowship in their career, how it has generated personal, professional, and public outcomes with far-reaching implications. Register in advance. Download the Request for Applications Apply for the Fellowship via InfoReady Fellowship Details Application Details Twenty fellows will be selected to participate in this year’s cohort. Over the year-long fellowship (9 months coaching + 3 months resources), fellows will: Participate in four interactive convenings/seminars designed to expand thinking and amplify expertise (you must be able to attend all convenings to be eligible (dates below); attendance at all convenings in full is required Engage with dedicated veteran journalist mentors for one-on-one coaching (weekly/regular) Gain access to weekly webinars and monthly expert talks with senior media insiders, and weekly customized email support and news alerts Gain access to a powerful network of peers, as well as to The OpEd Project's national network of high-level journalist mentors Commit to publishing 2 op-eds through the course of the fellowship Convening Dates Convening One (via zoom): 10/7/21; 10/8/21; 10/9/21 (10am – 1:30pm each day) Convening Two: 1/14/22 (10am-5pm) Convening Three: 4/1/22 (10am-5pm) Convening Four: 5/20/22 (10am-5pm) Full-time University Faculty (i.e., regular, research, librarian, and educator faculty) and instructors are eligible to apply. Adjunct instructors are not eligible for this fellowship. Emphasis is on thought leaders who identify as part of an underrepresented group in the public sphere (e.g., BIPOC male or female, white female). Submit the following materials via InfoReady (contact Eva Olivares at eolivares@med.miami.edu with any questions on the application system): In 200 words or less, provide a professional bio In 300 words or less, describe your expertise(s). In 300 words or less, describe why your knowledge is of public value. In 300 words or less, from a personal perspective, why do you want to have a public voice? In 300 words or less, why are your voice and/or ideas underrepresented? Letter of support from a peer who can speak to your: Status as a thinker of the highest caliber Expertise in topics that are of public value Commitment to having a public voice Curriculum Vitae (in UM format, preferably) FAQ Open All Tabs Do fellows receive a course or load release and/or a monetary stipend to compensate for the extra labor incurred while participating in this program? The support provided by the OpEd project to the Public Voices fellows includes mentor support, four convenings/seminars, editor meetings, etc. Fellows will not receive any formal support like a course or load release, and/or a monetary stipend. Does the definition of underrepresented minorities only include racial/ethnic minorities, or would LGBTQ+ persons qualify? Underrepresented minorities include racial/ethnic minorities and LGBTQ+ persons. Do applicants need to include citations to literature and/or media outlets as part of their responses to the questions “... why your knowledge is of public value” and “... why are your voice and/or ideas underrepresented”? Including citations to literature and/or media outlets is not a requirement. Applicants may include citations in parentheses next to their responses (a formal attachment is not needed). Can senior faculty apply to the Public Voices Fellowship? Senior faculty can apply, if they are full-time university faculty (i.e., regular, research, librarian, and educator faculty) and instructors. Adjunct instructors are not eligible for this fellowship. Public Voices Fellows In the News #TimesUp: Hollywood’s Lack of Progress and Failure to Believe In All Women Christina Lan in Ms. Magazine Why the Build Back Better Act is an investment, not a cost Shirin Shafazand in KevinMD It’s Time to Aggressively Target Another Top Killer of Black Americans Carmen Presti in US News & World Report Women in Leadership and Empowerment Award + Keynote speech Marisol Capellan for South Florida Hispanic Chamber of Commerce Alma: A Journey of the Soul through Music Jennifer Grim at Gusman Concert Hall at UM False prophets: When preachers defy COVID — and then it kills them Nebil Husayn in Salon SCIENCE IS NOT LYING TO YOU Juan Pablo De Rivero Vaccari in Visible Magazine We Need More Black Cardiologists to Shrink Black-White Health Disparities Sharon Andrade-Bucknor in US News & World Report All Latinos Are Not Perceived as Equal Marisol Capellan in Visible Magazine What's it Like? University of Miami Coral Gables, FL 33124 305-284-2211 University of Miami Coral Gables, FL 33124 305-284-2211 305-284-2211 Resources About UM myUM CaneLink Academic Calendar Blackboard UM Network Alumni Association Medical Center Hurricane Sports Employment Opportunities Visit Campus Map Parking & Transportation Connect social-facebook social-twitter social-youtube social-instagram Copyright: 2022 University of Miami. All Rights Reserved. Emergency Information Privacy Statement & Legal Notices