Skip to main content Google Tag Manager Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Home Research Education News Events People About Giving Shop Contact Us Biology & Paleo Environment Tree Ring Lab Core Repository Geochemistry Hudson River Field Station Marine Geology & Geophysics Marine/Large Programs Office of Marine Operations Ocean & Climate Physics Seismology, Geology and Tectonophysics Rock & Ice Mechanics Lab Visitor Opportunities Core Repository Hudson River Field Station Open House Student & Educator Programs Rockland P.L.U.S. Day in the Life of the Hudson Secondary School Field Research Summer Intern Programs Next Gen Hudson River Educators Earth2Class Resources Polar Science Climate & Sustainability Hudson River Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs Earth Science News Lamont in the Media Newsletter News Archive All Events Earth Science Colloquium Series Biology & Paleo Environment Seminars Geochemistry Seminars Geodynamics Seminars Marine Geology & Geophysics/Seismology, Geology & Tectonophysics Seminars Ocean & Climate Physics Seminars Summer Stars Lecture Series History Director's Office Director's Reports Academic Affairs & Diversity Anti-Racism Commitment Alumni Awards The Vetlesen Prize Lamont Awards Outside Awards Climate Center Luminaries & Signature Events Annual Reports Lamont Features Map Careers Open Positions Postdoctoral Fellowships Research Visitors Visitor Info Contact & Directions Shuttle Schedule Campus Café Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory You are here: Home News Alumni Spotlight: Sharelle Pampo Copple Climate Alumni Spotlight: Sharelle Pampo Copple Copple, a recent alumna of the Sustainability Science program, shares how her experiences at Columbia have helped her make an impact on climate change research. By Chloe Siao October 19, 2021 Sharelle Pampo Copple Sharelle Pampo Copple is a recent alumna of the Sustainability Science (SUSC) program (‘21). She grew up in Seattle, Washington, and attended the University of Washington where she earned a B.A. in Mathematics and Business Administration-Accounting. As an avid scuba diver, Sharelle has witnessed the effects of coral bleaching firsthand. This experience is what initially sparked her passion for climate change and sustainability. As an SUSC student, Sharelle was able to pivot her career focus from business to science. She was also able to work for the Earth Institute and conduct research for the NASA GISS Climate Change Research Initiative. This past year, she worked specifically on the “Climate Change in the Hudson Estuary: Past, Present, and Future” project and examined the way anthropogenic development has impacted marshes. Currently, she is exploring the global carbon budget within the context of the climate change planetary boundary and has recently started a new role as the director of research for a company that works to create a blockchain-based framework for carbon accounting. What drew you to the SUSC program? Columbia is a top-tier school and has some of the world’s leading scientists at Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory doing research on climate change. In the SUSC program, I would be learning from these esteemed scientists, which was a huge pull from the beginning. In addition, the Sustainability Science program’s flexibility allowed me to pivot my career from the business side to the science side, which was what I was hoping to accomplish during my time in school. It also allowed me to really cater classes to my interests and career goals. What were some of the highlights from your time in the Sustainability Science program? The students and faculty are top-notch. While everyone has different backgrounds and expertise, they are all incredibly smart and passionate about climate change. I learned so much just by getting to know my cohort through conversation. What are some of your career aspirations? And how did being a part of the SUSC program affect those aspirations? Career-wise, I really just wanted/want to be a part of the climate solution in any way possible instead of being a bystander. The Sustainability Science program has allowed me to do that by equipping me with the education, skills, tools, and connections to do so. I’ve been able to pivot my career to a more science-based trajectory to better understand the carbon budget. Do you have any advice for current or incoming students? At some point, you may have imposter syndrome, but just remember you were hand-picked to be a part of this program. Tags Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory Master of Science in Sustainability Science News May 31, 2022 Aurora Barone Looks for Equitable Ways to Cut Carbon Emissions May 27, 2022 Sylhet City, Geology, and Packing Up May 25, 2022 Community-Led Science Uncovers High Air Pollution From Fracking in Ohio County May 20, 2022 Start of the Mini-Field School May 17, 2022 Lazy Bears and Confused Birds: What a Warming Planet Means for Wildlife Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory61 Route 9W · Palisades, NY 10964 Phone 845-359-2900 Contact Us [email protected] Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close