Skip to main content Skip to primary site menu Google Tag Manager Search form Search Explore Brown University Search Global Navigation Learn More About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life Find A to Z Index People Directory Information for Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Top Destinations Global Brown Watson Institute Graduate School Alpert Medical School School of Public Health School of Engineering John Nicholas Brown Center for Public Humanities and Cultural Heritage Home About Graduate Program Initiatives People Faculty & Staff Faculty Advisory Board Public Humanities Fellows Current Students Alumni Events Blog Site Navigation Home About Land Acknowledgment Programs History Nightingale-Brown House Richard Neutra's "Windshield" House Model Nightingale-Brown House Digital Tour Black Labor at Nightingale-Brown House Brochure: Slave Labor and the Making of the Nightingale-Brown House Doing Public Humanities Diversity and Inclusion Action Plan DIAP Summary Update 2019-2020 Year in Review Graduate Program M.A. Program Requirements Courses Practicums Past practicums Master's Theses Fellowships and Funding Tuition Scholarship & Other Funding Public History of Slavery Fellowship Native American & Indigenous Studies Fellowship Curatorial Fellowships City Year (Americorps) Agreement Graduate Certificate 5th-year M.A. Contacts Public Humanities Students Handbook Graduate School Handbook Forms and Resources Initiatives Conferences Exhibitions Gallery Publications Partnerships Digital Projects Suffrage in Rhode Island: A Lippitt Family Perspective Nightingale-Brown House Digital Tour Public Work: A Public Humanities Podcast Rhode Tour Public Humanities Blog Day of Public Humanities Brown FACADES App Year of the City: The Providence Project People Faculty & Staff Faculty Advisory Board Public Humanities Fellows Current Students Alumni Alumni Directory Alumni Interviews Events Conferences Exhibitions Lectures J. Carter Brown Architecture Lectures Performances Workshops Blog Public Humanities Fellows An innovative and exciting group of community leaders in the arts and humanities serve as Public Humanities Fellows at the John Nicholas Brown Center for Public Humanities and Cultural Heritage. Each fellow works on a public humanities project and becomes a resource for Public Humanities students. Public Humanities Fellows are culture workers from the non-profit community who use their fellowship to pursue a program of reading, writing, and thinking or to engage in a specific project with the support of Center staff, faculty, and students. Diana Champa Public Humanities Fellow, Director of Literary Engagement and Outreach at School One Diana Champa is the Director of Literary Engagement and Outreach at School One where she oversees literary arts programming and community engagement. Before this position she worked for Prime Cut Productions and the Van Morrison Rhythm and Blues Foundation in Northern Ireland. Read full profile Taylor Jackson Public Humanities Fellow, Executive Director at Providence ¡CityArts! for Youth Taylor Jackson was born and raised in Conway, AR. She received a B.A. in History from Rhodes College located in Memphis, TN, and an M.A. Read full profile Mariani Lefas-Tetenes Public Humanities Fellow, Assistant Director, School & Teacher Programs, RISD Museum Mariani Lefas-Tetenes is Assistant Director, School + Teacher Programs at the RISD Museum where she coordinates and supports experiences for K-12 students and teachers through visits, partnerships, professional development, curricular resources, and collaborative projects. Prior she taught art history at City University of New York and worked in education, curatoria Read full profile Fran Loosen Public Humanities Fellow Fran Loosen has 25 years of experience in the social/nonprofit sector. Fran started her career in development and became an Executive Director of a startup organization at the age of 25. Her formal education is in art history and she also retains a MBA/MPA from the University of Michigan focused on strategy, innovation and marketing. Read full profile Jade Luiz Public Humanities Fellow Jade Luiz worked formerly as Curator of Collections at Plimoth Patuxet Museums where she managed the museums’ collections of 17 th -century fine and decorative arts, archives related to Mayflower II, as well as the museums’ significant archaeological holdings. Read full profile María Quintero Public Humanities Fellow, Outreach & Program Manager at JFK Library and Museum Maria Quintero specializes in serving as a bridge between cultural institutions, local agencies, community organizations, and the public — seeking to create spaces for people from marginalized backgrounds to enrich their lives by critically engaging with the past to empower communities historically left out of museum spaces and program. Read full profile Brent Runyon Public Humanities Fellow Brent Runyon is the Executive Director of the Providence Preservation Society, where he has been since fall 2013. Read full profile Jordan Seaberry Public Humanities Fellow Jordan Seaberry is a painter, organizer, legislative advocate and educator. Born and raised on the Southside of Chicago, Jordan first came to Providence to attend Rhode Island School of Design. Read full profile Kyera Singleton Public Humanities Fellow, Executive Director of the Royall House and Slave Quarters, American Democracy Fellow for the Charles Warren Center for American History Read full profile Howie Sneider Public Humanities Fellow Howie Sneider's childhood exploration of the forests and hills of Central New York inspired his sense of wonderment and discovery. He searched for his voice from a young age, participating in, and documenting animal rights demonstrations for the Animal Defense League of Syracuse and lobbying for reproductive rights in Albany with other teens. Read full profile People Faculty & Staff Faculty Advisory Board Public Humanities Fellows Current Students Alumni John Nicholas Brown Center for Public Humanities and Cultural Heritage John Nicholas Brown Center for Public Humanities and Cultural Heritage Brown University Box 1880 Nightingale Brown House 357 Benefit Street Providence, RI 02912 Phone: 401-863-1177 Fax: 401-863-7777 Email [email protected] Twitter Twitter Facebook Facebook Instagram Instagram Brown University Giving to Brown Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA 401-863-1000 Contact Us Maps Directions Career Opportunities Campus Safety Accessibility All Social Media © 2022 Brown University | Back to top