Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. Public Safety Public Safety right arrow down arrow About right arrow down arrow Contact Us FAQ Executive Team Newsroom right arrow down arrow Blog Posts Safety and Reform News Media Department Policies Safety Services right arrow down arrow Access Control & Physical Security Automated External Defibrillators Background Checks / Finger Prints right arrow down arrow FAQ Bicycle Registration Bearcat Guardian Crime Prevention right arrow down arrow Preventing theft from auto and auto theft Preventing theft and burglary Online and phone scams Housing Rental Scams Keys & Badges Lost & Found Mind What Matters NightRide Special Events right arrow down arrow Event Security Cost Estimate Special Events FAQ Be A Good Neighbor Police right arrow down arrow 911 Communications Leadership Community Engagement Team Crime Statistics Job Shadowing Mission, Vision and Values Bias Free Policing and Contact Cards Records and Reports Recruitment Victim Services right arrow down arrow What Are My Options? Harassment, Stalking and Dating Violence Sex Crimes K-9 Unit Request for Investigation University Threat Assessment Group Reform right arrow down arrow Board of Trustees' Resolution Community Compliance Council right arrow down arrow Meetings, Minutes and Materials Guiding Principles Values Members Resources External Reports and Voluntary Monitorship Clery Act right arrow down arrow Clery Notices Daily Crime Log Campus Security Authorities Annual Security Report Fire Prevention and Protection Units right arrow down arrow Fire Extinguisher Training Fire Drills and Smoke Detectors Areas of Rescue Assistance Fire Log Fire Alarm Construction Standards Emergency Management right arrow down arrow Emergency Procedures Safety Notifications Emergency Plans Bearcat Notifications Home » About UC » Public Safety » Safety Services » Background Checks / Finger Prints » FAQ Set Navigation title in component Access Control & Physical Security Automated External Defibrillators Background Checks / Finger Prints FAQ Bicycle Registration Bearcat Guardian Crime Prevention Preventing theft from auto and auto theft Preventing theft and burglary Online and phone scams Housing Rental Scams Keys & Badges Lost & Found Mind What Matters NightRide Special Events Event Security Cost Estimate Special Events FAQ Be A Good Neighbor Background Check / Finger Print FAQ Who needs a criminal history check? The University of Cincinnati requires a pre-employment criminal history check of all persons being offered a position at the university, except faculty and student employees. All temporary and affiliate employees also need a criminal history check prior to starting their assignment at UC, in addition to those persons working with children at camps held at the university. Do you offer criminal history checks to individuals who are not affiliated with the University? Yes, we do perform criminal history checks for those outside the university. Who does the criminal history checks? The University of Cincinnati Department of Public Safety. Where do I get a criminal history check? The University of Cincinnati Public Safety Department is located at Four Edwards, 51 W. Corry Blvd. What are the hours of operation? The office performs criminal history checks from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m., Monday through Friday. What do I need to bring as proof of identity? You will need a government issued photo ID such as a driver's license, passport or state ID. How is the check accomplished? Once your identity has been verified and a release is signed, a Public Safety employee will take you to a Webcheck computer where basic information will be entered and your fingerprints will be taken on a scanning device. Where does this information go? The electronic fingerprints and personal information will be sent via an encrypted message to either the Ohio Bureau of Criminal Investigation and/or the FBI. How long will it take for the results? If there is no information on file, we get the results within one to two days. If a history is found by the webcheck or the check is selected for hand verification, it could take up to 40 days. Does this process create a fingerprint record at these agencies? The electronic fingerprints that are submitted are held for one year for any issues arising out of the submittal. After the time period has expired, the file is destroyed. There is no permanent fingerprint file created at either agency based on this process. If I work for more than one temporary employment agency, will I be required to have the criminal check twice? No, a criminal history check is valid for at least one year from the date it was taken. Is there a cost for a criminal history check? Yes. The cost is $32 for a check of Ohio records (BCI) and $35 for a national check (FBI). How do I know which check I need? What background check you should have done depends on the reason you are getting the background check. How do I pay for a criminal history check? Individuals can pay with cash, check and credit cards (Visa, MasterCard and American Express). University Departments should complete the billing form that is online for payment processing. Temporary agencies should make prior payment arrangements with the online billing form. If paying by check, the check should be made payable to the University of Cincinnati Public Safety. Who do I contact if I have questions? Please call 513-556-4925. The employee who operates the program will assist you with any questions. Department of Public Safety 51 West Corry Boulevard Cincinnati, OH 45221-0215 Main Number: 513-556-4900 Background Checks, Keys and IDs: 513-556-4925 UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati Department of Public Safety 51 West Corry Boulevard Cincinnati, OH 45221-0215 Main Number: 513-556-4900 Background Checks, Keys and IDs: 513-556-4925 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top