Skip to Main Content Brown University School of Public Health Brown University Admissions Search Menu Site Navigation Home Why Brown? By The Numbers Providence Requirements Application Fee Assistance Tuition & Funding Master's Funding PhD Funding FAQ Inclusion Connect with Us Student Ambassadors Alumni Ambassadors Virtual Tour Search Admissions Accepted Students Congratulations on your acceptance to the School of Public Health at Brown! Accepted Students Congratulations on your acceptance to the School of Public Health at Brown! The School of Public Health is a collaborative and supportive environment dedicated to student success; building a diverse and inclusive environment is central to this mission and to our commitment to serve the community, the nation, and the world. Bringing together students, faculty, and staff with a range of life experiences creates a dynamic community that offers the contrasting perspectives and ideas needed for public health innovation. https://www.youtube.com/embed/j99v0t_QmuQ Welcome from the Deans! Featuring Megan L. Ranney, MD, MPH, Academic Dean and Ashish K. Jha, MD, MPH, Dean of the Brown University School of Public Health. Share your accomplishment! Download “I've been accepted” badges to share with your social networks. Next Steps Visit this link* to: access your admission letter access your funding letter, if applicable accept our offer pay your enrollment deposit Review the Graduate School's Admitted Students Guide Join the Brown Graduate Student Listservs / Accepted Students Facebook Page Follow us on Instagram / Facebook / LinkedIn / Twitter Find Graduate Housing (links in #2 above are another great resource!) *Note: All accepted students are "returning" users, so you do not need to create an account. If you do not know how to log in, please check your email first for previously communicated login credentials. If you still do not know, or have issues, please contact masters_admissions@brown.edu. Inform Your Decision Graduate Career Outcomes Connect with Students Connect with Alumni Explore Student Resources Research Funding Opportunities Learn about Providence 2022 Orientation Dates (Tentative) Event Dates International Student Orientation August 24-26 Graduate Student of Color Orientation August 28-29 Graduate School Orientation August 30-31 School of Public Health Orientation TBD First Day of Classes September 7 Questions? We encourage admitted students to connect directly with their program administrators, below. Our student and alumni ambassadors are also great resources. Please also utilize the Graduate School's Admitted Students Guide and New Student Communications where you will find important information. Linda Angela Behavioral and Social Health Sciences linda_angela@brown.edu Denise Arver Biostatistics denise_arver@brown.edu Kathleen Graham Epidemiology kathleen_graham@brown.edu Elizabeth Jackvony Clinical and Translational Research, MPH/MPA Dual Degree elizabeth_jackvony@brown.edu Catherine Leopold Health Services Research catherine_leopold@brown.edu Diane Schlacter Master of Public Health (MPH) diane_schlacter@brown.edu Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map Footer Navigation Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University School of Public Health Brown University For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home Why Brown? By The Numbers Providence Requirements Application Fee Assistance Tuition & Funding Master's Funding PhD Funding FAQ Inclusion Connect with Us Student Ambassadors Alumni Ambassadors Virtual Tour This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Accepted Students Open details for Accepted Students Bookmark this Page