Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. Parking Services Parking right arrow down arrow Locations right arrow down arrow Maps Visitors right arrow down arrow Maps Uptown UC Blue Ash UC Clermont 1819 Innovation Hub UC Reading Victory Parkway Students right arrow down arrow Uptown UC Blue Ash UC Clermont Leased Properties Parking Permits Faculty & Staff right arrow down arrow Uptown UC Blue Ash UC Clermont 1819 Innovation Hub Victory Parkway UC Reading Value Pass Mobile Pay Instructions Citations right arrow down arrow View Account Events right arrow down arrow Events Calendar Football Basketball College-Conservatory of Music Event & Meeting Planners Other Event Prepaid Parking Instructions Athletic Events Prepaid Parking Resources right arrow down arrow Policies How-To Videos Alternative Transportation FAQ Home » About UC » Parking Services » Faculty & Staff » UC Blue Ash Set Navigation title in component Uptown UC Blue Ash UC Clermont 1819 Innovation Hub Victory Parkway UC Reading Value Pass Mobile Pay Instructions UC Blue Ash Faculty & Staff Parking Parking Registration Policies Faculty/staff parking registration is $15 per month purchased through the parking portal Payroll deduction is available for payroll eligible employees (50 percent FTE or higher) Parking Services uses license plate recognition (LPR) to verify that someone has registered to park in a lot. Your vehicle license plate is considered as your permit, so make sure your vehicle information is always kept updated in the system. Any vehicles not linked to a parking registration will receive a citation. The yellow-lined spaces will continue to be reserved, on a first-come, first-served basis for those with faculty/staff parking Faculty/staff with UC Blue Ash (UCBA) parking registration have reciprocity parking privileges on the uptown campuses. Reciprocity parking is as follows: 8 a.m. - 3 p.m. - 2 hour parking at the Clifton Lot or on Panzeca Way behind Eden Garage (Medical Campus) 3 p.m. - 7:59 a.m. - Unlimited parking at the above locations, as well as access to Campus Green Garage Daily Parking Option A mobile pay option* has been released for those faculty/staff customers that wish to pay daily in lieu of monthly registration. *Attention T-Mobile Users: It has been determined that some individuals with T-Mobile service will receive a Server Access Denied message when attempting to use the mobile pay option. Please refer to this article on how to resolve the issue. Customer feedback indicates that contacting T-Mobile may be a better option for resolving the issue. UC Blue Ash Campus Map UCBA Mobile Pay How-to-Video Blue Ash Citations Issued Prior to July 1, 2020 Citations issued prior to July 1, 2020 will not be managed through the parking portal, but by the Blue Ash College payment portal. Registering for Parking Online Make sure to have your vehicle information ready. License Plate, Make, Model and Color are required in the purchasing process. You can register more than one car on your parking registragtion, however, only one vehicle can be parked at a time. Keep vehicle information current throughout the year. This helps us ensure space for registered customers, and makes it easier to contact you in case of emergency. How-To-Video: Register For UC Blue Ash Parking Permit register for your permit or view your account Parking Services University of Cincinnati 4 Edwards Center 51 Corry Boulevard Cincinnati, OH 45221-0624 513-556-2283 parking@uc.edu UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati Parking Services University of Cincinnati 4 Edwards Center 51 Corry Boulevard Cincinnati, OH 45221-0624 513-556-2283 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top