Covid-19: Get the latest updates here Apply to JTS Contact Campus Life Alumni Get Email Updates Donate Now Search About Higher Education Emergency Relief Fund Leadership History JTS and Israel Conservative Judaism Offices & Resources Policies Accreditation Visit JTS Admissions List College Admissions Davidson School Admissions Rabbinical School Admissions Gershon Kekst Graduate School Admissions H. L. Miller Cantorial School Admissions Take a Virtual Tour Academics Academics School List College The William Davidson School The Rabbinical School The Gershon Kekst Graduate School H. L. Miller Cantorial School Faculty & Scholars Faculty & Scholars Center & Institutes Center for Pastoral Education Block / Kolker Center for Spiritual Arts The Hendel Center for Ethics and Justice Milstein Center for Interreligious Dialogue Louis Finkelstein Institute for Religious & Social Studies Research Institutes Summer Programs Nishma Summer Sessions Summer Hebrew Language Courses Professional Training Professional Training CONTINUING EDUCATION FOR CLERGY The Rabbinic Training Institute (RTI) Summer Rabbinic Learning Conference Online Learning for Rabbis and Cantors FOR JEWISH EDUCATORS Day School Leadership Training Institute (DSLTI) Jewish Early Childhood Education Leadership Institute (JECELI) Ivriyon: Hebrew Immersion Institute for Day School Educators Jewish Day School Standards and Benchmarks FOR OTHER PROFESSIONALS NAASE Week of Study Community Learning Community Learning ONLINE Live Online Classes JTS Torah Online BEYOND THE CAMPUS JTS Learning in Your Community Courses and Curricula LEARNING EVENTS Public Lectures and Events FOR 8TH-12TH GRADERS Prozdor Teen Learning Library About The Library Letter from the Librarian Library Services The New JTS Library Library Programs and Events Library Online Exhibits Special Collections JTS Library Membership Email a Librarian News & Events News Events Academic Calendar The New JTS Library Library The New JTS Library A 21st Century Research Library The historic Library of JTS is one of the greatest Judaic studies libraries in the world, renowned for the depth and breadth of its collection and its extraordinary trove of rare materials. The new JTS Library continues to build upon this legacy. It is a top-tier research library providing students, faculty, outside scholars, and the public at large with an inviting new space that offers a rich collection of print, manuscript, and digital resources and that expands access to The Library’s unparalleled Judaic collection. Here is what you can expect to find in the new Library of JTS: The Best of Traditional and Digital Resources: Today’s outstanding libraries must offer resources in multiple formats. Therefore, our print collection continues to be deep and rich, while our electronic resources will be first-rate. Access to online journals and research tools, within the fields of focus at JTS, are extensive, and there are appropriate e-book offerings in the same fields. A Substantial Print Collection: Approximately 50,000 volumes now circulate on site. This collection includes all books within our fields of study and research published in recent years, as well as enduring, classic works. Some 300,000 other works are stored off site, available for next-day delivery via our electronic catalog. With the latest and most enduring scholarship on site, most users will rarely need to order books from off site. A Place for Intellectual Discovery: The new Library continues to offer a book-filled environment that encourages users to browse the shelves and make unexpected discoveries. They can “virtually browse” our catalog, as well, scanning all the books in our collection. Space for Diverse Activities: The new Library has room for all types of users, with ample space to work alone, in small groups, or with classes. It saccommodate work with rare and conventional materials, along with digital resources. It is a place for community, including gatherings that bring more people from outside of JTS to view and learn about our historic treasures. Rare Materials: The new Library shouse our entire collection of rare materials, including 11,000 manuscripts, 25,000 rare printed books, and thousands of other materials such as scrolls, broadsides, and ketubbot. Support for Scholarly Research: The Library’s rare, and in many cases unique, collections are crucial for those doing research in almost any field of Judaica, and the new Library scontinue to strongly support such research. We have created a dedicated, secure, and climate-protected space in which scholars can work comfortably while our rare materials are properly protected. A Place to Share Rare Materials with the Public: The Library’s rare materials offer ever-fresh, exciting insights into the complex and diverse realities of Jewish life and thought through the ages. Therefore, our special collections must not be the realm of scholars alone; everyone—from our students and faculty to community visitors to school children—must have the opportunity to learn from and be enriched by these jewels of Jewish culture. In the new Library, this will indeed be the case, with special collections programming, a regular exhibit schedule, and special space for the presentation of our rare treasures. SHARE THIS PAGE SUPPORT ONE OF THE GREATEST COLLECTIONS OF JUDAICA IN THE WORLD MAKE A GIFT TO THE JTS LIBRARY RESOURCES Current Students Faculty & Scholars CONNECT WITH US Get Email Updates Visit Give Social Media © The Jewish Theological Seminary All Rights Reserved | בית המדרש ללימודי יהדות 3080 Broadway, New York, NY 10027 Privacy Policy x Share This Page From Name(Required) From Email(Required) To Email(Required) Message