Skip to main content University of Washington Research Contact Us About Office of Research Announcements UW Home Quick Links MyResearch Project Lifecycle Plan/Propose Plan/Propose Overview Develop Hypothesis/Question Select Funding Source Conduct Literature Search Sponsor Requirements Recruit Team Budget Facilities and Resources Write Proposal Submit Proposal Tools MyResearch SAGE Zipline More Tools Setup Setup Overview Sponsor Requirements Facilities and Resources Financials Subawards Compliance Requirements (Non-Financial) Records and Documentation Methods Collaborations Data Collection Tools MyResearch SAGE Zipline More Tools Manage Manage Overview Financials Compliance Requirements (Non-Financial) Facilities and Resources Collect Data Analyze Data Subawards Award Changes Reporting Tools MyResearch SAGE Zipline More Tools Closeout Closeout Overview Financials Subawards Equipment and Materials Reporting Dissemination of Results Data Sharing Records Retention Tools MyResearch SAGE Zipline More Tools Resources Support Offices Human Subjects Division Office of Animal Welfare Office of Research Central Office of Research Information Services Office of Sponsored Programs Research Units Applied Physics Laboratory Washington National Primate Research Center Browse Forms and Templates Policies, Procedures and Guidance Announcements Glossary FAQs Popular Resources Funding Opportunities Grants Information Memorandum (GIMs) Institutional Facts and Rates Research Stats & Rankings New to UW Research UWFT for the Research Community Tools MyResearch SAGE Zipline More Tools Collaboration Connect to Expertise Find Research Expertise Research Centers and Institutes Resources for Collaboration Interdisciplinary Resources Guidance for NIH Institutional Training Grants Collaborative Proposal Development Resources Establish a Research Center or Institute Shared Research Facilities and Resources Tools MyResearch SAGE Zipline More Tools Compliance Compliance Overview Compliance Training Training Overview Research Training Overview Collaborative for Research Education Required Research Training Research Administration Learning HSD Training and Education MyResearch Training Transcript Human Subjects Division hsdinfo@uw.edu 206.543.0098 UW Research Menu MyResearch Project Lifecycle Plan/Propose Setup Manage Closeout Resources Collaboration Compliance Training Home UW Research Human Subjects Division COVID Related Requirements for Human Subjects Research Single Patient Emergency Use COVID Related Requirements for Human Subjects Research Human Subjects Division Home Human Subjects Division About Us Clinical Trials Clinical Trials Registration and Reporting Clinical Trials Registration and Reporting Questions and Answers How to Post a Consent Form to a Federal Website How to Register a Clinical Trial How to Report Clinical Trial Results How to Update a Clinical Trial Record Contact HSD COVID Related Requirements for Human Subjects Research Do I Need IRB Review? Step 1. Is Your Project Considered Research? Step 2. Does Your Research Involve Human Subjects? Step 3. Is Your Human Subjects Research Exempt from Regulations? Step 4. Is Your Research Considered to be “UW Research”? Guidance Ancillary Review Consent Delayed Onset Human Research (DOHR) Ethical Principles Exempt Research Humanitarian Use Devices (HUDs) International Research Just-in-Time and IRB Review Protected and Vulnerable Populations Recruitment Research Inquiries Specific Federal Agency Requirements Subject Payment HSD Training and Education HSD Required Training Zipline Online Help Library HSD Tutorials and Videos Additional Education and Resources Is the UW IRB the Right IRB? General Information How to Ask For a Non-UW IRB Identify the Correct IRB Meeting Schedule for the IRBs Research Participants Revised Common Rule Single IRB UW is a Participating Site UW is the Lead or Coordinating Site UW IRB as a Single IRB Single Patient Emergency Use Special Topics Data and Safety Monitoring Engagement Minimal Risk (Expedited) Review Subject Privacy, Confidentiality and Identifiable Data Study IRB-Related Activities Apply for Review Modify the Approved Study Renew Your IRB Approval Report Events and New Information Close Your IRB Application Zipline Zipline Campus Training Site Zipline Release Notes Most UW Restrictions Lifted March 28th – Face Coverings Still Required for Clinical Activities In line with state, local and UW health policies, most UW-imposed restrictions on human subjects research have been lifted effective March 28, 2022. For research conducted in WA State, researchers and study participants must continue to wear masks in indoor healthcare settings, correctional and jail facilities, and on public transportation and in transportation hubs (federal requirement). Healthcare setting includes any public or private setting in WA State that is primarily used for the delivery of in-person healthcare services (e.g., hospital, outpatient clinic, pharmacy) and other indoor settings that are not primarily used for the delivery of healthcare services (e.g., school classroom, food processing facility, private residence) but where in-person patient care/clinical activities occur. Researchers and study participants must also still abide by any other requirements imposed where the in-person research activities will occur (e.g., institutional or facility requirements, local government, or public health agency). This includes research conducted in international settings. For example, UW Medicine currently requires that visitors to its hospital facilities must be either vaccinated or have a negative COVID test. These requirements would apply to any in-person research visits conducted there. NOTE – If public health conditions worsen once more, we may reinstate some or all restrictions until the health situation improves again. Page last updated: 03.28.2022, 5:00 PM PDT – Updated to reflect changes to requirements effective March 28,2022. Current Requirements Face Coverings – WA State. In accordance with WA State Department of Health, researchers and study participants must continue to wear masks in healthcare settings, correctional and jail facilities, and on public transportation and in transportation hubs (federal requirement). UW Environmental Health & Safety has additional information on what constitutes a ‘healthcare setting’, which includes any setting in WA State where in-person patient care/clinical activities occur, including those conducted in association with a research study. See the Questions and Answers below for more details on where and how this requirement applies. Other Local Site Restrictions. Researchers and study participants must abide by any requirements imposed where the in-person research activities will occur (e.g., institutional or facility requirements, local government, or public health agency). This includes research conducted in international settings. For example, UW Medicine currently requires that visitors to its hospital facilities must be either vaccinated or have a negative COVID test. These requirements would apply to any in-person research visits conducted there. These are the minimum requirements. Researchers may find a risk assessment of their study warrants additional safety measures. See Questions and Answers below for additional information. New Q&A items are occasionally added. See the UW EH&S webpage for general COVID information. The University’s current face covering requirements may be found here. Check the UW coronavirus website for current information about UW and state requirements, COVID testing, facts, and resources, including links to any campus-wide communications. Questions and Answers In what circumstances does the UW face covering policy apply to research? (added 03.28.2022) Current UW policy and WA State Department of Health requires face coverings in indoor healthcare settings. This includes any public or private setting in WA State that is primarily used for the delivery of in-person health care services to people (e.g., hospital, outpatient clinic, pharmacy, dental office, long-term care facility, mobile clinic, massage therapy clinic, drug rehabilitation center, etc.). Researchers and study participants in these settings must be masked, regardless of the nature of the activity being performed. For example, conducting a survey of patient attitudes towards healthcare in the lobby of Harborview Medical Center would require everyone to be masked. UW policy also requires face coverings in other indoor settings that are not primarily used for the delivery of healthcare services (e.g., school classroom, food processing facility, private residence) but where in-person patient care/clinical activities occur. This means that if your research includes these activities, masks must be worn by all parties. Finally, face coverings are also required in correctional and jail facilities (WA State Department of Health) as well as on public transportation and in transportation hubs (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention order – applies nationally). UW policy includes UW shuttles under this requirement. Any in-person research activities conducted in these settings should include masking. What constitutes a patient care/clinical activity under the UW face covering policy? (added 03.28.2022) Patient care/clinical activities are any activities requiring healthcare professional credentialing or licensing to perform, under WA State Department of Health. This includes investigational biomedical or behavioral interventions. It also includes activities conducted in association with a research study such as blood draws, diagnostic imaging (e.g., x-ray, MRI), IV placement, etc. It includes these activities regardless of intention (e.g., research only, treatment) or whether they are clinically billable. Contact UW EH&S (covidehc@uw.edu) if you have questions. Should you submit a modification to your IRB application before you return to pre-pandemic study procedures? This is not required if any COVID-related modifications to your study procedures were described as additions to the study and the discontinuation of pre-pandemic procedures was described as temporary (i.e., not permanent) due to COVID-related restrictions on research. Am I required to return to the pre-pandemic study procedures? No. You can continue to use procedures that were approved because of the pandemic instead of, or in addition to, your pre-pandemic procedures. It is up to you, and you do not need to obtain IRB approval for your decision. For example, you may wish to keep doing remote consenting (say, by Zoom) and electronic consent signatures, for some or all of your participants. Is it OK to ask research study team members and study participants for documentation of their vaccination status? Participants: It is not illegal to ask participants for documentation of their vaccination status and may be necessary to comply with local site restrictions. Note that vaccination status is generally considered to be private and confidential information and should be protected accordingly. Study team members: UW students and personnel are required to be fully vaccinated or receive an exemption. This has been verified and documented for each individual by a UW-wide verification process. There are important privacy protections that limit requests about, and disclosure of, vaccination information for UW students and personnel. These are described in the Privacy Protections section of the UW COVID-19 Vaccination Requirement webpage. Is it OK to exclude non-vaccinated individuals from a study? The UW IRB strongly discourages this practice unless the purpose of the study is to specifically look at vaccinated individuals. Scientific rationale for including non-vaccinated participants: Groups of vaccinated versus non-vaccinated individuals may differ in significant ways that affect the outcomes and generalizability of studies. Ethical rationale for including non-vaccinated participants: The federal human subjects regulations and the ethical principles underlying them require an equitable selection of participants. The purpose is to ensure that (1) all interested individuals have the opportunity to participate in or contribute to the potential benefits of the research and (2) there is a fair distribution of the risks and benefits of research. Is it still required to screen study participants for COVID symptoms? Generally, no. However, it is best practice to do this screening for participants who are not vaccinated. Is in-person study monitoring and/or auditing now allowed? Yes, if it is allowed by the facility at which the monitoring or auditing will occur. Any facility restrictions (such as masking) must be followed. Is it still OK to obtain consent with electronic signatures? Yes. The new methods developed during the COVID pandemic are permanently available. Accompanying Document Changes COVID-19 Relative Risk Tool: Retired IRB Protocol form: Questions about COVID have been revised or deleted. COVID-19 Announcements March 14, 2022 For the Record – March 14, 2022: Special COVID Edition February 1, 2022 For the Record: February 1, 2022 January 11, 2022 For the Record – January 11, 2022 December 29, 2021 For the Record – December 29, 2021: New HSD Director; COVID; Guidance August 18, 2021 For the Record – COVID-19 Special Edition, August 2021 August 2, 2021 For the Record – August 2, 2021: Updated COVID Recommendations; REDCap Clarification All Announcements Home Human Subjects Division About Us Clinical Trials Clinical Trials Registration and Reporting Clinical Trials Registration and Reporting Questions and Answers How to Post a Consent Form to a Federal Website How to Register a Clinical Trial How to Report Clinical Trial Results How to Update a Clinical Trial Record Contact HSD COVID Related Requirements for Human Subjects Research Do I Need IRB Review? Step 1. Is Your Project Considered Research? Step 2. Does Your Research Involve Human Subjects? Step 3. Is Your Human Subjects Research Exempt from Regulations? Step 4. Is Your Research Considered to be “UW Research”? Guidance Ancillary Review Consent Delayed Onset Human Research (DOHR) Ethical Principles Exempt Research Humanitarian Use Devices (HUDs) International Research Just-in-Time and IRB Review Protected and Vulnerable Populations Recruitment Research Inquiries Specific Federal Agency Requirements Subject Payment HSD Training and Education HSD Required Training Zipline Online Help Library HSD Tutorials and Videos Additional Education and Resources Is the UW IRB the Right IRB? General Information How to Ask For a Non-UW IRB Identify the Correct IRB Meeting Schedule for the IRBs Research Participants Revised Common Rule Single IRB UW is a Participating Site UW is the Lead or Coordinating Site UW IRB as a Single IRB Single Patient Emergency Use Special Topics Data and Safety Monitoring Engagement Minimal Risk (Expedited) Review Subject Privacy, Confidentiality and Identifiable Data Study IRB-Related Activities Apply for Review Modify the Approved Study Renew Your IRB Approval Report Events and New Information Close Your IRB Application Zipline Zipline Campus Training Site Zipline Release Notes Zipline Information Zipline Get access to the online IRB application submission system HSD Forms, Templates and Worksheets Forms & Templates Get access to all of HSD's forms, templates, and worksheets HSD Policies, Procedures and Guidance PPGs and SOPs Get access to all of HSD's policy, guidance, and standard operating procedures (SOPs) University of Washington Office of Research Tools MyResearch SAGE Zipline More Tools OR Support Offices Human Subjects Division (HSD) Office of Animal Welfare (OAW) Office of Research (OR) Office of Research Information Services (ORIS) Office of Sponsored Programs (OSP) OR Research Units Applied Physics Laboratory (APL-UW) WA National Primate Research Center (WaNPRC) Research Partner Offices CoMotion Corporate and Foundation Relations (CFR) Enivronmental Health and Safety (EH&S) Grant and Contract Accounting (GCA) Institute of Translational Health Sciences (ITHS) Management Accounting and Analysis (MAA) Post Award Fiscal Compliance (PAFC) Collaboration Research Expertise Centers and Institutes Interdisciplinary Resources Guidance for NIH Institutional Training Grants Collaborative Proposal Development Resources About Research Fact Sheet Research Annual Report Stats and Rankings Honors and Awards Office of Research Contact Us Manage Subscriptions Gerberding Hall G80 Box 351202 Seattle, WA 98195 Accessibility Jobs Campus Safety My UW Privacy Terms © 2022 University of Washington | Seattle, WA