Skip to main content MyUW Calendar Directories Libraries UW Medicine Maps UW News Helpful Links Computing/IT ISC/Workday Husky Card UW Bothell UW Tacoma UW Facebook UW Twitter University of Washington University of Washington Students Parents Faculty & Staff Alumni Quick Links Home About The Innovation Imperative FAQ Funding opportunities Roundtable Contacts Programs Buerk Center for Entrepreneurship Global Innovation Exchange Colleges and schools UW Medicine Incubators and accelerators Internships and fellowships Find a mentor Classes and clubs Events Upcoming events Autumn Quarter Winter Quarter Spring Quarter Ongoing events Spaces Makerspaces CoMotion Labs GIX Prototyping Labs Other facilities Startups Startup portfolio Success stories Investment and licensing opportunities Work with UW INNOVATION PROGRAMS The UW offers a wide variety of educational and learning opportunities to build skills in innovation and entrepreneurship at any point in the journey. From undergraduate and master’s degree programs to leading research organizations, from incubators and accelerators to internships and mentorship, the UW has it all. Buerk Center for Entrepreneurship The Buerk Center serves the entire campus with exceptional academic programs and real-world experiences. Students and faculty who engage with the center make strong connections to the Seattle entrepreneurial community. Early-stage entrepreneurs from all majors and disciplines define their journey — from ideation to launch and everything in between. Undergraduate students Lavin Entrepreneurship Program This extracurricular program is for undergraduate entrepreneurs from all majors and disciplines across campus. By combining curriculum with hands-on learning and a cohort of students all immersed in the startup experience, the UW Buerk Center gives Lavin students the experience, skills and know-how to succeed in their future business ventures. Learn More Graduate students Entrepreneurship Certificate The Buerk Center’s certificate in entrepreneurship prepares UW graduate and PhD students for the world of startups and new technology enterprises. Certificate students, whose disciplines range from engineering and architecture to drama and medicine, take classes, work with UW inventors on their market-ready applications, gain real-world experience, and network with the region’s most innovative entrepreneurs. Learn More Global Innovation Exchange (GIX) The Global Innovation Exchange (GIX), located at the Steve Ballmer Building in Bellevue, Washington, is a university/industry initiative that supports UW’s innovation ecosystem by providing multidisciplinary, project-based education in technology and innovation. Developed in partnership with corporate, government, and non-profit partners, GIX offerings include graduate degrees, professional development programs, and vibrant networking experiences. GIX was launched in 2015 through a groundbreaking collaboration with founding partners Microsoft Corporation and Tsinghua University. Graduate Programs UW MS in Technology Innovation (MSTI) GIX is home to UW’s custom-designed MSTI degree for technology and innovation leaders, enabling them to design, build, and launch the next generation of smart devices and robotics solutions. In this intensive 15-month program, MSTI students work entirely from GIX classrooms and the GIX Prototyping Labs in Bellevue, learning how to take an innovative idea from concept to impact. Students have the option to expand their skill sets by adding a second degree from Tsinghua University. Students who elect to participate in this 27-month dual degree program will spend their first ten months at Tsinghua University in Beijing, taking courses and completing research in the Master of Science in Engineering (Data Science & Information Technology). After a two-month break for a vacation or optional internship, students will move to Bellevue, Washington, to begin the UW MSTI program and continue work on their thesis under the guidance of their Tsinghua advisor. Learn More Professional Programs Micro-credentials, short courses, customized offerings GIX Professional Learning Programs offer professionals, executives, and corporate teams customized opportunities to respond to rapid technological change, solve complex problems, and innovate from within. Participants learn through problem-based, hands-on experiences while working with expert faculty and industry experts. Individuals can network with peers across industries while they earn micro-credentials to enhance their skills and careers. Courses range from short intensives to longer, more immersive experiences. Learn More Networking Programs GIX serves as a hub of activity within UW’s and Seattle’s vibrant innovation ecosystem, offering dynamic networking programs for diverse audiences throughout the year, including the annual GIX Innovation Competition, the Tech Exploration Summer Program for high school students, and the Access Computing Summer Program, enabling global interns to help improve the lives of people with disabilities. Learn More Colleges and schools UW offers many undergraduate and graduate programs with a focus on innovation and entrepreneurship. They come from a variety of UW colleges and schools and include Institutes, Labs, courses, capstones, certificates and training programs. Undergraduate programs From fields as diverse as clean energy, the environment, engineering, information science, and of course, business, UW undergraduate programs teach innovation and entrepreneurship skills. Learn how capstone projects help students distill the knowledge and skills acquired in academic courses and apply them to real-world projects. Clean Energy Institute (CEI) at the University of Washington Undergraduate opportunities at CEI: CEI supports the next generation of clean energy leaders and innovators through their unique education, outreach, and research training programs. College of Engineering Industry Capstone Program: The program brings together UW students and companies to tackle real-world, multidisciplinary engineering problems. Computer Science Engineering Entrepreneurship: Company-Building from Formation to Successful Exit: This entrepreneurship course is about starting, growing, managing, leading, and ultimately exiting a new venture. Chemical Engineering entrepreneurial design: As entrepreneurs and startup founders, ChemE students, faculty, and graduates are using their knowledge and lab work to create innovative solutions and products. Electrical & Computer Engineering, Innovation and Entrepreneurial (ENGINE) capstone program (ENGINE): Develops students’ skills in collaborative systems engineering and project management, while supporting a thriving culture of innovation at the UW and within the local community through industry partnerships and student mentorship. Engineering Innovation in Health: EIH is a program that promotes interdisciplinary collaboration between engineering and the health sciences with the goal of developing technical solutions to pressing challenges in health care. College of the Environment EarthLab: Accelerates and focuses UW expertise to address large-scale environmental challenges, making a positive impact on people’s lives and livelihoods. Foster School of Business Entrepreneurship Minor: Open to all non-business undergraduate students, the Foster School’s competitive Entrepreneurship Minor offers students the opportunity to leverage their unique talents, as well as their new-found business knowledge, to achieve their startup goals. Entrepreneurship Option (for business majors): Prepares students for an entrepreneurial career by offering a combination of coursework and practical experience. Information School iSchool Capstone Program: The culmination of students’ learning experience, iSchool capstone projects distill the knowledge and skills acquired in academic courses and apply them to a real-world project. Graduate and other programs Find programs here from the Evans School, Clean Energy Institute, College of Engineering, College of the Environment, Foster School of Business, the iSchool and more. Clean Energy Institute (CEI) at the University of Washington Graduate opportunities at CEI: CEI supports a variety of fellowship and training opportunities that enhance career flexibility for graduate students. College of Engineering Professional Engineering Degree Programs: In addition to traditional graduate degree programs, these professional degree programs and certificates are offered in several areas of engineering and are developed in partnership with/provide access to regional industry leaders. Bioengineering Program and Technology Commercialization: The Master of Applied Bioengineering trains students to apply engineering design to address today’s clinical challenges and fulfill the market-based demands of industry and medicine for biotechnology. College of the Environment EarthLab: Accelerates and focuses UW expertise to address large-scale environmental challenges, making a positive impact on people’s lives and livelihoods. eScience Institute As the hub of data-intensive research and discovery on campus, this program leads a community of innovators in the techniques, technologies, and best practices of data science and the fields that depend on them. Evans School of Public Policy & Governance Accelerating Social Transformation: A unique, immersive experience for mid-career professionals that will reinvigorate and prepare participants to innovate and create social impact in support of the most vulnerable people in our society. Foster School of Business Master of Science in Entrepreneurship: This program follows the same path as a startup—with a curriculum designed to guide students through a real-world entrepreneurial process used to develop new companies. Entrepreneurship Certificate: The Buerk Center’s certificate in entrepreneurship prepares University of Washington graduate and PhD students for the world of startups and new technology enterprises. Global Innovation Exchange (GIX) UW MS in Technology Innovation: In this intensive 15-month program, students learn how to take an innovative idea from concept to development, and on to launch. The project-based curriculum, developed and delivered by leading UW faculty, immerses students in design thinking, technology development, and entrepreneurship. Professional Learning Programs: These courses for executives, teams, or individuals help participants respond to rapid technological change, solve complex problems, and innovate from within. Learn through problem-based, hands-on experiences while working with other leading industry experts. Information School iSchool Capstone Program: The culmination of students’ learning experience, iSchool capstone projects distill the knowledge and skills acquired in academic courses and apply them to a real-world project. Institute for Nano-Engineered Systems (NanoES) NanoES: Researchers at NanoES are developing solutions to grand challenges in nano science and engineering: the scalable, high-yield manufacture of nano-engineered systems in information processing, energy, health, and interconnected life. Molecular Engineering & Sciences Institute MolE Ph.D. Program: MolES launched one of the first graduate programs in molecular engineering in 2014, drawing on expertise from across the University of Washington to create a unique education and research opportunity for trainees interested in addressing urgent societal needs in sustainable energy and human health. Population Health Cultivating social innovation and social entrepreneurship: This initiative is helping to develop a more robust ecosystem for social innovation and entrepreneurship at the UW that supports faculty and students to take on big population health challenges. UW Medicine UW Medicine is a premier healthcare system that integrates comprehensive patient care and nationally ranked research for over 300 medical clinics. Unlike other local health systems, UW Medicine provides the highest caliber clinical care because they directly connect that care with a top-rated medical school and an internationally recognized research organization. The mission of the Brotman Baty Institute is to take advantage of Seattle’s unique ecosystem and collaborative culture to have a transformative impact on biomedical research and patient outcomes through the development and application of precision approaches to healthcare. Learn More Natural proteins evolved over millions of years to solve the most complex challenges on Earth. But we face new and pressing challenges today. The Institute for Protein Design is designing a new world of proteins to address 21st century challenges in medicine, energy, and technology. Learn More The mission of the Center for Dialysis Innovation is to improve the health and well-being of people receiving dialysis treatment. The vision is that future dialysis therapy will be complication free, and restorative of kidney health. Learn More Incubators and accelerators Helping early-stage startups grow their business. Incubators support startups in the beginning stages of building their company by providing resources, access to mentors, and interactions with other entrepreneurs while accelerators focus on scaling existing businesses. UW has offerings in both types of programs. Jones + Foster Accelerator The startup process is messy and unpredictable—licensing intellectual property, producing a manufacture-ready prototype, lining up customers, raising money—all are critical and daunting. The Jones + Foster Accelerator program helps early-stage, student-led companies through those decisive first six months. Learn More Creative Destruction Lab – Seattle A nonprofit organization for massively scalable, seed-stage, science- and technology-based companies, Creative Destruction Lab launches its third U.S.-based location, CDL-Seattle, in fall 2021. Based at the UW’s Foster School of Business, CDL-Seattle is a partnership with Microsoft Corporation, the UW College of Engineering, Paul G. Allen School of Computer Science & Engineering and CoMotion. The initial area of focus for CDL-Seattle is computational health. Learn More CoMotion Labs CoMotion Labs provides a multi-industry incubation environment for early-stage startups with a focus on UW spinoffs. From critical infrastructure to just-in-time learning, mentoring, and networking, CoMotion Labs nurtures company growth and enables success. Learn More Other programs TechStars Accelerators | BECU Fintech Incubator | Engineering Innovation in Health Summer Incubator Internships and fellowships Enabling students to apply knowledge from the classroom to real-world experience makes them more competitive in the job market. UW offers a variety of innovation- and entrepreneur-focused internships and fellowships to both undergrads and grads. CoMotion Internships & Fellowships Undergraduate students CoMotion Mary Gates Innovation Scholars: This program funds full-time summer internships in faculty-led startup initiatives. Selected scholars contribute to the development of these companies, gaining experience in and exposure to various aspects of building a new product or business. Postdoctoral students CoMotion Postdoctoral Entrepreneurship Program: This one-year fellowship funds talented commercially-focused UW postdocs to work in UW labs on key translational experiments to identify and obtain company funding and to further develop the business model. Other programs WRF/ITHS Summer Commercialization Fellowship | Legal Interns & Externs Buerk Center Internships & Fellowships for Graduate Students The Buerk Center for Entrepreneurship offers various internship and fellowship opportunities for graduate students to gain real-world experience while pursuing their degree. Find a mentor Mentors can mean the difference between success and failure for early-stage entrepreneurs. They offer business development knowledge, pitch coaching, networking connections, and subject matter expertise. UW offers these connections to its students and entrepreneurs. Entrepreneurial Law Clinic The Entrepreneurial Law Clinic (ELC) is an innovative clinic serving entrepreneurs throughout the Pacific Northwest. It teams law and business students with pro bono attorneys and business advisors to provide critical early-stage legal and business counseling. Learn More UW StartupTree Community UW student entrepreneurs use StartupTree to access the resources they need and to discover, connect, and collaborate with co-founders, team members, and mentors on their journey. Learn More Events Interested in networking events, competitions & hackathons, and symposiums? Learn more about our events AboutProgramsClasses/ClubsEventsSpacesStartupsWork with UW University of Washington Be boundless Connect with us: Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Pinterest Accessibility Contact Us Jobs Campus Safety My UW Rules Docket Privacy Terms Newsletter © 2022 University of Washington | Seattle, WA