Skip to Main Content Brown University News from Brown Site Navigation Featured Events For Journalists Search Menu Topics Student Life Date April 30, 2021 2021-04-30 Media Contact Jessica Tabak [email protected] 401-863-1632 All News Share Facebook Twitter Linkedin Email Complete Coverage As Brown celebrates Commencement and Reunion Weekend 2021, look no further for complete news, photo, video and social media coverage of the festivities, both in-person and virtual. Commencement and Reunion 2021 PHOTOS: For soon-to-be graduates, pre-Commencement events cap their Brown student experiences In the days leading up to their Commencement ceremonies, members of the Class of 2021 attended campus events preparing them for graduation day and celebrating their academic accomplishments at Brown. 1 of 10 Soon-to-be graduate Mia Gratacos-Atterberry attends the Brown Center for Students of Color's Stole Ceremony Senior Celebration on April 29. At the event, students picked up the stoles, leis and cords that they will wear during their graduation ceremonies to represent the diverse communities to which they belong. All photos: Nick Dentamaro / Brown University 2 of 10 At the Commencement Kick-off held Tuesday, April 27, students registered for Commencement picked up their ceremony regalia, as well as colored wristbands designating their seating areas during the event. 3 of 10 At Commencement Kick-off, students picked up colored wristbands that will designate their seating sections at the ceremony. 4 of 10 Students at the Stole Ceremony Senior Celebration choose the stoles, leis and cords they will wear at graduation to represent the affinity groups to which they belong. 5 of 10 The Stole Ceremony Senior Celebration held on April 29 featured an interview station where soon-to-be graduates shared their Brown stories. 6 of 10 A student poses in his new stole representing Brown's ONYX Society in the photo tent erected at the Stole Ceremony Senior Celebration held on April 29. 7 of 10 The stoles, leis and cords available at the Stole Ceremony Senior Celebration each represent a different affinity group to which students belong. This SWANA stole is worn by students who share Southwest Asian and North African heritage. 8 of 10 The annual President's Reception was transformed into an outdoor grab 'n' go event to accommodate public health guidelines. There, soon-to-be graduates picked up Brown-themed souvenirs, a lunch to-go — and selfies with President Christina H. Paxson. 9 of 10 Students picked up Brown-themed souvenirs at President's grab 'n' go event, which was held on the College Green on April 29. 10 of 10 A soon-to-be graduate strikes a pose in front of the Van Wickle Gates, just days before she and her classmates will walk through them at the close of their Commencement ceremony. PROVIDENCE, R.I. [Brown University] — In the week leading up to Brown’s undergraduate Commencement ceremonies — set to take place on the College Green on May 2, 2021 — soon-to-be graduates were busy attending safely planned in-person events preparing them for the big day and celebrating their time at Brown. Cloudy April skies and on-and-off rain in Providence led to some last-minute adjustments to events — which included official Senior Week activities organized by the student-run Class Coordinating Board, as well as events sponsored by offices including the Division of Campus Life and the Office of University Events and Conference Services. But the showers didn’t dampen the spirits of the students in attendance, who will have the chance this weekend to celebrate their accomplishments, socially distanced but alongside their classmates. This slideshow offers a glimpse at the University activities and spontaneous exchanges that have occupied Brown seniors during their last days on campus as students — from snapping selfies with President Christina H. Paxson to stealing moments with friends to picking up the stoles, leis and cords that they will wear during their graduation ceremonies to represent the diverse communities to which they belong. Tags Campus Life Commencement The College Related news: Student Life Photos: Defying gravity with Brown Aerial and Acrobatics April 20, 2022 For 10 years, a student-run organization has taken to the air, delighting audiences with circus-inspired performances on trapeze, aerial silk, lyra and more. Read Article Open details for Photos: Defying gravity with Brown Aerial and Acrobatics Student Life Pawtucket native, U.S. Army veteran combines Brown education with service to community November 8, 2021 Brehan Brady — a self-described working-class kid from Pawtucket who transferred to Brown from the Community College of Rhode Island — joins other student veterans in forging a new path after their military service. Read Article Open details for Pawtucket native, U.S. Army veteran combines Brown education with service to community Student Life For senior Elvia Perez, an entrepreneurial approach to tackling educational disparities November 4, 2021 With classroom experiences across the Open Curriculum and support from the Nelson Center for Entrepreneurship, Perez built on her own experiences to launch EmpowerU, a startup that connects low-income students to higher education resources. Read Article Open details for For senior Elvia Perez, an entrepreneurial approach to tackling educational disparities Complete Coverage As Brown celebrates Commencement and Reunion Weekend 2021, look no further for complete news, photo, video and social media coverage of the festivities, both in-person and virtual. Commencement and Reunion 2021 Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown Social Navigation Facebook Instagram LinkedIn Snapchat Twitter YouTube Social Media Directory © Brown University Brown University For You Current Students Faculty Staff Parents & Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Featured Events For Journalists Topics Arts and Humanities Environment Health and Medicine News and Events Science and Technology Social Sciences Student Life University Initiatives Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation About Events For You Give to Brown All of Brown.edu People News Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search PHOTOS: For soon-to-be graduates, pre-Commencement events cap their Brown student experiences Open details for PHOTOS: For soon-to-be graduates, pre-Commencement events cap their Brown student experiences Bookmark this Page