Skip to Main Content Brown University News from Brown Site Navigation Featured Events For Journalists Search Menu Topics News and Events Date March 31, 2022 2022-03-31 Media Contact Brian E. Clark [email protected] 401-863-1638 All News Share Facebook Twitter Linkedin Email Brown admits 2,546 students to the undergraduate Class of 2026 The University offered admission on Thursday, March 31, to prospective members of next year’s incoming class, who were selected from Brown’s largest applicant pool to date. PROVIDENCE, R.I. [Brown University] — Brown University offered admission to 1,651 prospective members of next year’s entering undergraduate class on Thursday, March 31. Admitted through Brown’s regular decision process, the students join early decision applicants offered admission in December 2021 for a total admitted class of 2,546. A total of 50,649 prospective students applied to attend Brown — a 9% increase from last year, and the University’s largest applicant pool to date by more than 4,000 students. “Brown was tremendously fortunate to select its incoming class from an outstanding pool of impressive applicants, who bring a wide range of academic and personal experiences and accomplishments,” said Dean of Admission Logan Powell. “The intellectual vitality, optimistic spirit and commitment to community engagement represented in these Class of 2026 admitted students will be a wonderful addition to the University.” The prominent public leadership of Brown scholars in confronting the most challenging issues facing the world contributed to this year’s increase in applications, Powell said. In addition to the role of faculty in addressing the COVID-19 pandemic, Brown scholars have been at the forefront of research and public engagement in areas such as climate change, economic mobility and brain science. The University has also responded to the unrest and instability around the world with offers of admission and additional support to students from both Afghanistan and Ukraine. Brown was one of the first American universities to bring to campus displaced Afghan students this fall, and this spring shared advanced likelihood of admission and availability of additional resources with a group of prospective students from Ukraine. “I am incredibly proud of the way we have been able to step forward as a community to support these outstanding students who are facing incredibly difficult circumstances,” Powell said. “There is an urgency to this moment, and Brown is taking immediate action to provide assistance to talented students who have been displaced from their homes.” “Brown was tremendously fortunate to select its incoming class from an outstanding pool of impressive applicants, who bring a wide range of academic and personal experiences and accomplishments.” Logan Powell Dean of Admission Students in the admitted Class of 2026 hail from all 50 U.S. states and from countries across the globe, with the most students from China, the United Kingdom, Canada, India, Singapore and Ukraine, respectively. An expanding set of financial aid initiatives to support Brown students also played a role in the significant increase in applications, Powell said, and in encouraging students from an increasingly wide array of financial backgrounds to apply. Building on the work of the Brown Promise initiative, which replaced loans with scholarship funds in all University-packaged undergraduate financial aid awards four years ago, the University will cover the full cost of tuition for families earning $125,000 or less with typical assets starting in the 2022-23 academic year. This change — a result of eliminating consideration of home equity in Brown’s financial aid calculations — is expected to provide thousands of additional dollars in average annual scholarship for aided students and expand the number of families who will receive aid from Brown. Separately, two years after extending its need-blind policy to military veterans with a goal to double veteran enrollment, Brown established this year a goal to expand need-blind consideration to international students. The University is growing its financial aid budget for international undergraduates, with the goal of becoming fully need-blind for international students who begin at Brown in Fall 2025. This would eliminate the ability or inability to pay the cost of tuition as a factor in the admission process, placing Brown in a very small group of colleges and universities nationally who are need-blind for international students. Of Brown’s 2,546 admitted students, 96% are in the top 10% of their high school classes. Nineteen students were admitted to the Brown-RISD Dual Degree Program, and 84 students were admitted to the Program in Liberal Medical Education, an eight-year program leading to both a bachelor’s degree and an M.D. from Brown's Warren Alpert Medical School. While all will have the opportunity to explore courses of study through Brown’s Open Curriculum, the students’ top 15 intended concentrations include: engineering/biomedical engineering; computer science; economics; political science; biology; biochemistry and molecular biology; international and public affairs; neuroscience; applied mathematics; public health; psychology; health and human biology; physics, English; and history. Applicants began logging on to a secure website at 7 p.m. Eastern on Thursday, March 31, to learn the status of their applications. Following the release of admission decisions, Brown will host three admitted student programs on campus for the Class of 2026. A Day on College Hill (ADOCH) sessions will take place on April 8, 13 and 22 for students who choose to visit Providence in person. The University will also continue to support admitted students with virtual programming that provides opportunities to explore, learn, ask questions and connect to the campus while showcasing Brown’s vibrant community. Admitted students have until Monday, May 2, to accept the University’s offer of admission. Brown anticipates an incoming class of approximately 1,700 students, including 15 Brown/RISD Dual Degree admits. Tags Admission and Financial Aid The College Related news: News and Events Brown Corporation elects two new fellows, eight trustees June 1, 2022 Brown’s governing body elected each new member based on their commitment to the University and its mission of education and research. Read Article Open details for Brown Corporation elects two new fellows, eight trustees News and Events Brown Corporation approves base budget for Fiscal Year 2023 June 1, 2022 The $1.5 billion base budget includes deep investments in student financial aid and support for faculty and staff, balancing continued advancement in academic excellence with a focus on long-term financial sustainability. Read Article Open details for Brown Corporation approves base budget for Fiscal Year 2023 News and Events In three ceremonies, medical, doctoral and master’s graduates celebrate hard-earned degrees May 29, 2022 In addresses at Brown’s Commencement ceremonies on Sunday, May 29, student speakers entreated their peers to make a positive impact using lessons they had learned during the COVID-19 pandemic. Read Article Open details for In three ceremonies, medical, doctoral and master’s graduates celebrate hard-earned degrees Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown Social Navigation Facebook Instagram LinkedIn Snapchat Twitter YouTube Social Media Directory © Brown University Brown University For You Current Students Faculty Staff Parents & Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Featured Events For Journalists Topics Arts and Humanities Environment Health and Medicine News and Events Science and Technology Social Sciences Student Life University Initiatives Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation About Events For You Give to Brown All of Brown.edu People News Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Brown admits 2,546 students to the undergraduate Class of 2026 Open details for Brown admits 2,546 students to the undergraduate Class of 2026 Bookmark this Page