Skip to main content Temple University Explore Temple’s Schools and Colleges Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Support Temple Temple University Search Site Search Full Menu Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees President History & Traditions Temple Health News & Media Offices Public Information Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Development Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Libraries Management Information Systems Certificate (Undergraduate) You are here Home Academics Degrees and Programs Management Information Systems Certificate (Undergraduate) Apply Visit Request More Info Management Information Systems Certificate (Undergraduate) Admissions Management Information Systems Undergraduate Certificate Learn to identify, select and evaulate innovative technology solutions for business with the Management Information Systems Undergraduate (MIS) Certificate in Temple University’s Fox School of Business. In this nine-credit certificate program, you'll become a knowledgeable user of information technology and develop the tools necessary to successfully interact with technology professionals. As a graduate of the program, you’ll acquire valuable, translatable skills and differentiate yourself in an increasingly competitive industry. The program is available to non-business students at Temple. Interested students should discuss with their advisors how the courses in the certificate program will fit into their overall degree plan. Additional options for those interested in supplementing their baccalaureate curriculum with IT coursework include the Management Information Systems and Information Technology Innovation and Entrepreneurship minors. Learn more about these opportunities. Classes & Curriculum To complete the nine-credit certificate program, students must complete the two required courses below. Digital Systems Data and Analytics Students then select an elective course from the following options. Cloud Architecture Data Science Digital Design and Innovation Information Systems Innovation Internet Enabled Supply Chains Social Media Innovation Strategic Management of Information Technology Learn more about Management Information Systems Undergraduate Certificate courses. Related Graduate Degrees Digital Innovation in Marketing MS Innovation Management and Entrepreneurship MS Careers Information technology is a crucial part of business management, and companies are looking for employees who can think creatively and strategically about how to incorporate technology into the workplace. The following in-demand careers are a few examples of the wide variety of opportunities that may be available to students who study Management Information Systems. Application developer Business analyst Chief information officer Computer systems analyst Data analyst Database manager Information systems manager Program analyst Social media consultant Web developer Alumni Employers Temple University maintains strong ties with employers, both within the city of Philadelphia and beyond, who have employed, or who currently employ, former Temple students. Graduates from the Management Information Systems program have gone on to work for a variety of employers, including Cigna; Comcast Corporation; Deloitte Consulting, LLP; Deloitte; Ernst & Young; Grant Thornton; JPMorgan Chase & Co.; KPMG; Pfizer; Protiviti, Inc.; Prudential Financial; PwC; QVC; RSM; SAP America, Inc.; TD Bank; Temple University; and Vanguard. Tuition & Fees The tuition for this Certificate Program is based on school or college of your major, program degree level (undergraduate or graduate), course load (full- or part-time), in-state or out-of-state residency, and more. Learn more about our tuition and fees. Our Academic Advisors The Center for Undergraduate Advising in the Fox School of Business is dedicated to helping students navigate their academics and make informed decisions about their career paths. Camille Fallon is the associate director at the Center for Undergraduate Advising. Phone: 215-204-1761 Email: camille.fallon@temple.edu Joy Stroman is the senior academic advisor at the Center for Undergraduate Advising. Phone: 215-204-7762 Email: joy.stroman@temple.edu See a full list of undergraduate academic advisors. Peer Advising The Center for Undergraduate Advising also offers peer advising at the Main Campus location. Undergraduate peer advisors offer the perspective of an upper-level student and assist by sharing their knowledge and personal tips for academic success. Program Contact For more information about your degree program, contact the faculty below. Kate Markowitz is the director of enrollment management for undergraduate students. Phone: 215-204-4892 Email: kmrick@temple.edu Tom Carney is the assistant director of undergraduate enrollment. Phone: 215-204-5424 Email: tom.carney@temple.edu Claudia Bereshnyi is the assistant director of transfer, veteran and online BBA recruitment and the contact for both incoming transfer students and those interested in an online BBA. Phone: 215-204-4100 Email: claudia@temple.edu Drew Hashimura is the coordinator of enrollment management. Phone: 215-204-2070 Email: ahashimura@temple.edu Student Clubs & Organizations Joining student clubs and organizations is a great way to meet like-minded students; connect with local, national and international businesses; and build the skills you’ll need in your professional career. Enhance your academic experience by participating in a club related to your major or interests. Temple Association for Information Systems offers students opportunities to practice and promote management information systems through social, community and professional development activities. Membership is open to any Temple University student interested in a Management Information Systems-related career. Explore the full list of Fox School of Business student clubs and organizations. Accreditation The Fox School of Business is accredited by the Association to Advance Collegiate Schools of Business (AACSB). The school has maintained AACSB accreditation since 1934. BU-MIS-CERT Additional Program Information Available as a minor. School/College Site View Program Details Go back to AcademicsMore in Management Information Systems Certificate (Undergraduate) Admissions Apply Visit Request More Info Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Calendar Policies Social Media TUportal TUmail Accessibility Careers at Temple Safety & Emergency Information Ethics & Compliance Privacy Statement Professional Licensure Disclosures Follow Temple University Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community. Apply Visit Request More Info