Skip Navigation California State University, Fullerton Site Menu Engineering & Computer Science Main Navigation Departments Centers Current Students Future Students Services & Resources Employment News & Events Giving Contact Us Scholarships Career Center Services and Resources Graduation Advising (Juniors & Seniors) - General Education and Major related Academic Advising (Freshmen & Sophomores) Live Graduation Check Workshops Academic Success Workshops Resume/ CV, Cover Letter, Jobs & Internships Contact Information SSC Location: CS-201 Hours: Monday-Friday: 8am-5pm Phone: 657.278.3879 E-mail: ecsadvising@fullerton.edu Virtual and in-person advising appointments and walk-in hours may vary. Student Success Center (SSC) College of Engineering and Computer Science Mission The mission of the College of Engineering and Computer Science Student Success Center is to meet the evolving needs of our students by providing an array of services in an inclusive and safe environment. Our goal is to ensure that our students have a centralized area in the college to access information regarding individual academic, career, and personal development plans. ADVISING APPOINTMENT Students can request appointments with Advisors in the ECS Student Success Center based on availability on the Navigate Student App. When checking for availability, please ensure you select “College of ECS, Student Success Center/CASECS (CS-201)” as the location to select from one of the following staff members: Freshmen/Sophomore: Christina Hernandez Elaina Sidney Sergio Guerra Junior/ Senior: Elizabeth Gomez Instructions for Accessing TitanNet & Scheduling an Appointment If you are a non-Engineering and Computer Science (ECS) student interested in changing your major to Engineering or Computer Science, please meet with an ECS Advisor via their virtual drop-in hours. You can also email an ECS Advisor or ecsadvising@fullerton.edu to schedule an appointment via email request. Instructions for Accessing & Utilizing TitanNet Academic Planner Prepare for your advising meetings by utilizing the TitanNet Academic Planner to plan your courses (available for Fall 2020 catalog and beyond only). Alignment with the University Strategic Plan Goal 1: Develop and maintain a curricular and co-curricular environment that prepares students for participation in a global society and is responsive to workforce needs. The ECS Student Success Center in collaboration with the Student Success Team will focus on streamlining and enhancing the advising experience for freshman and sophomore students. Our emphasis involves an advising system that focuses on the holistic development of ECS students. Goal 2: Improve student persistence, increase graduation rates University wide, and narrow the achievement gap for underrepresented students. The ECS Student Success Center provides preventative workshops to ensure students have progressed with completing graduation requirements. These workshops include the “Pre-Graduation Check Workshop” that is facilitated by the Graduation Specialist. MEET THE STUDENT SUCCESS TEAM ECS Retention Specialist Elaina Sidney Phone: 657.278.4392 E-mail: elsidney@fullerton.edu Virtual Walk-in Hours: Tuesday 2pm-4pm Sidney's ZoomLinkMeeting ID: 270 388 5295 Passcode: 805138 Schedule an Appointment with Elaina Sidney ECS Graduation Specialist Elizabeth Gomez Phone: 657.278.3212 E-mail: elgomez@fullerton.edu Virtual Walk-in Hours: Friday: 9am-11am Gomez's ZoomLink Schedule an Appointment with Elizabeth Gomez College Advisor Christina Hernandez Phone: 657.278.7406 E-mail: chhernandez@fullerton.edu Virtual Walk-In Hours: Monday: 1pm-3pm Hernandez's ZoomLink Schedule an Appointment with Christina Hernandez CASECS Director Sergio Guerra Phone: 657.278.7302 E-mail: sguerra@fullerton.edu Virtual Walk-in Hours Friday: 1:30pm-3:30pm Guerra's ZoomLink Schedule an Appointment with Sergio Guerra Meet the Student Success Team ECS International Advisor Karen LauPhone: 657.278.2609 Email: karenlau@fullerton.edu Virtual Walk-in Hours: Wednesday: 11am-12pm Lau's Zoom Link ECS Career Specialist Vanessa Rubinfeld Out on Maternity Leave Until Sept 2022 Email: varubinfeld@fullerton.edu No Walk-in Hours at this time Zoom link in Titan Connection (main page) For more information, please email the Career Centeror call 657.278.3121 Assistant Dean Student Affairs Shannen Allado Phone: 657.278.4407 Email: shallado@fullerton.edu Virtual Walk-in Hours: Check Navigate for Hours & Zoom Link This site is maintained by Engineering & Computer Science. Last Published 4/5/22 To report problems or comments with this site, please contact ecswebmaster@fullerton.edu. © California State University, Fullerton. All Rights Reserved. Web Accessibility CSUF is committed to ensuring equal accessibility to our users. Let us know about any accessibility problems you encounter using this website. We'll do our best to improve things and get you the information you need. Resources: Download Adobe Acrobat Reader Adobe Reader Download Word viewer, or download Excel viewer, or download PowerPoint viewer Microsoft Viewers Report An ATI Issue Accessible @ CSUF Version_4.8.10 This page uses javascript to help render elements, if you have problems please enable javascript. This page uses accordion styles which rely on javascript. You do not have javascript enabled, some functions will be disabled.