COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW Details: International Studies, Major MajorInternational Studies All Programs Fairmount College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Political Science Wichita State’s Bachelor of Arts (BA) field major in international studies allows you to focus your studies in multiple areas of interest—equipping you with skills and knowledge tailored to your career goals or graduate school plans. This degree is ideal for double majoring in many areas such as pre-law, business, political science, journalism, philosophy and criminal justice—and is excellent preparation for graduate study and a wide range of careers. Learn how international studies is the right fit for you. Request Info Start Your Application Applied learning at Wichita State At Wichita State, applied learning is everything. In fact, every degree we offer has a guaranteed applied learning or research experience built right into it equipping you with the relevant skills and experience to make you workforce ready before graduation. Learn about our innovative approach Admission to the program To be admitted into the Fairmount College of Liberal Arts and Sciences, you must first be admitted to Wichita State. For WSU's admission requirements, and to apply, click the link below. Admission requirements Inside the Program International business group gives students competitive advantage Cynthia Matson's time at Wichita State shaped who she is today. As a business major, she was vice president of the Barton International Group, a student-run consulting firm through the Barton School of Business at WSU. Every fall, BIG takes undergraduate students from all majors and classes, ranging from finance to mechanical engineering for an opportunity to get involved in unique capacities. As a BIG member, students have the opportunity to gain a competitive advantage through real-world experience, working alongside business professionals from diverse industries in a fast, highly driven environment with other liked-minded students. Curriculum The international studies field major is an interdisciplinary degree with courses required in multiple departments. Students have the option to follow one of two tracks: area studies business administration Both tracks require a focus on a particular region of the world and include language courses. The area studies track focuses more on historical, political and cultural relations. The business administration track focuses on international business. View the area studies curriculum View the business administration curriculum Careers Thanks to WSU's extensive network of employer connections, students in every major have opportunities to gain real-world experience—helping them build a resume, make professional connections and land their dream jobs. Learn more about careers in this field Similar Programs International Studies (Minor) International Business Anthropology Political Science Ethnic Studies 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©