Skip navigation Information For: Current Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Brown University Brown Grad School About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life A to Z Index People Directory Graduate School Financing & Support Ph.D. Funding External Funding Fulbright Fellowship Opportunities Graduate School Skip to Navigation Fulbright Fellowship Opportunities The first step for graduate students interested in pursuing a Fulbright program is to contact William Wittels. Established by the United States Congress in 1946, the Fulbright U.S. Student Program aims to increase mutual understanding between the United States and other countries through the exchange of people, knowledge, and skills. It is the largest U.S. international exchange program, offering opportunities for recent graduates, postgraduate candidates, and developing professionals and artists to conduct career-launching study and research in more than 140 countries worldwide. The program is funded primarily through an annual appropriation from Congress to the Department of State. Participating governments and host institutions also contribute through cost-sharing and indirect support, (e.g., through salary supplements, tuition waivers, and university housing). Most grants require a commitment of one academic year, although in some cases advanced doctoral candidates and candidates in the creative and performing arts may submit requests for grants of not less than six months. Applications are considered from candidates in all fields. The Fulbright-Hays Doctoral Dissertation Program provides grants to colleges and universities to fund individual doctoral students who conduct research in other countries, in modern foreign languages and area studies, for periods of six to 12 months. The program aims to deepen research knowledge on and help the nation develop capability in areas of the world not generally included in U.S. curricula. Projects focusing on Western Europe are not supported. Programs: U.S. Student Fulbright Grant Fulbright-Hays Fulbright Public Policy Fellowship Fulbright Canada Awards Fulbright Postgraduate Student Award at Brown All applicants must: Be U.S. citizens at the time of application. Hold a B.A. degree or the equivalent before the start of the grant and/or be a master’s or doctoral degree candidate. In the creative and performing arts, four years of professional study and/or experience meets the basic eligibility requirement. Have sufficient proficiency in the written and spoken language of the host country to communicate with the people and to carry out the proposed study. Home About the Graduate School Healthy Brown FAQs for Graduate Students Academics & Research Living & Resources Financing & Support Tuition & Fees Health and Dental Insurance Financial Considerations Master's Funding Ph.D. Funding Initiatives in Doctoral Education and Student Support Internal Funding & Appointments Student Loans Student Employment Student Payroll Procedures Admitted Students & Orientation Application Information For Graduate Students For Faculty and Staff Related Items Incentive Program for Doctoral Students Brown University Brown University Graduate School Box 1867 Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-2600 Maps & Directions / Contact Us / Accessibility © 2022 Brown University Resources Graduate School Handbook Academic Code CareerLAB Brown University Writing Center Sarah Doyle Center for Women and Gender Sheridan Center for Teaching & Learning Top Destinations Admission Inquiry Form Commencement Five-Year Ph.D. Support Open Graduate Education External Funding Application Process International Applicants