Skip to main content Google Tag Manager Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Prospective Newly Admitted Current Alumni Columbia University School of General Studies Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Admissions Educational Financing Academics Student Services About Undergraduate Admissions How to Apply Eligibility Application Deadlines and Decisions Information Sessions/Campus Visits Transfer Students Postbac Premed Admissions How to Apply Eligibility Application Deadlines and Decisions Information Sessions/Campus Visits Newly Admitted Students International Students Planning Day Placement Exams University-Wide Placement Exams U.S. Military Veterans International Dual Degree Programs Types of Financial Aid Institutional Scholarships Federal and State Grants Loans Private Scholarships and Grants Student Employment Financial Aid for Military Veterans Post-9/11 GI Bill® and the Yellow Ribbon Program Veterans Request for Certification Cost of Attendance Applying for Financial Aid Prospective Students Newly Admitted Students Current Students University Employees Postbac Premed Students Counseling Appointments Enrollment Update Form Student Account Refunds Undergraduate The Core Curriculum Degree Fulfillment Course Listings Majors and Concentrations Research Opportunities Study Abroad Academic Calendar Postbac Premed Program Curriculum & Courses Sample Schedule Course Listings Preparatory Coursework Previously Completed Coursework Glide Year Master’s Programs Academic Calendar Applying to Medical School General Admission Linkage Admission Linkage Specific Program Requirements Reapplicants Letters of Recommendation Academic Policies Registration Enrollment and Courseload Leaves and Withdrawals Academic Integrity and Standards Faculty of Arts and Sciences Undergraduate Announcements Postbac Premed Announcements Academic Advising Academic Resource Center Programs & Services Jumpstart Series Tutoring Peer Advising Campus Services Forms and Guides Graduation Health and Wellness Housing International Students Medical School Fair Planning Your Future Accelerated Master's Programs Fellowships and Research Premedical Clinical and Research Positions Student Life Leadership Development Multicultural & Social Justice Education Programs Student Organizations Upcoming Events Veterans Resources and Initiatives Leadership Mission History Statistics and Facts Notable Alumni University Policies Events Staff Directory Faculty News Press Coverage Media Inquiries School of General Studies You are here: Home Educational Financing Financial Aid for Military Veterans Post-9/11 GI Bill® and the Yellow Ribbon Program Post-9/11 GI Bill® and the Yellow Ribbon Program Additional Information Overview of Veteran Financial Benefits The Columbia University School of General Studies is a proud participant in the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) Yellow Ribbon Program. The scope of benefits provided by the Post-9/11 GI Bill® and the Yellow Ribbon Program make a Columbia education accessible to eligible veterans, regardless of socioeconomic status. Both GS undergraduates and Postbac Premed students are eligible to participate in the Yellow Ribbon Program. Information about Harry W. Colmery Veterans Educational Assitance Act - Forever GI Bill Expand all Collapse all The Post-9/11 GI Bill® Important Post-9/11 GI Bill (Chapter 33) Update As of the Spring 2022 semester, students using their Post-9/11 GI Bill® (Chapter 33) benefits and receiving a Monthly Housing Allowance (MHA) and/or kicker payment will be required to verify their enrollment by the end of each month to continue receiving their payments. To streamline the enrollment verification process, the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) is providing students with text message verification, an easy and secure method for verifying enrollment each month via text and the best way to ensure they receive their MHA/kicker payments uninterrupted. Students also have the option to verify enrollment via email. Learn More. Please note: any student who fails to submit enrollment verification for two consecutive months will have their MHA/kicker payments held until verification of enrollment. Please review the FAQ’s and follow-up with the VA Education Call Center at 1-888-442-4551. Overview of VA Tuition and Fees Contribution Overview of VA Tuition and Fees Contribution Apply for Benefits Each student has unique circumstances and may be eligible for different levels of the Post-9/11 GI Bill®. To find out more about eligibility, and to utilize the benefit, students must apply directly through the VA. Complete the Veterans Online Application (VONAPP) and submit a copy of the DD-214. Once completed, VA will mail a Certificate of Eligibility (COE) which will outline the student's benefits and eligibility. It may take VA up to 6 weeks to mail this document. Students should ensure that their address on file with VA is correct. Note: Students may begin the semester before the COE arrives. Post-9/11 GI Bill® students are also required to submit a copy of their most recent Certificate of Eligibility (COE) on file with the GS Office of Educational Financing. This will allow the Office of Educational Financing to credit the student's account for the expected VA payment as soon as enrollment to VA has been certified, rather than waiting for the VA to send the payment, which can take up to six weeks. Late fees on a student account related to your VA eligible tuition and fees are forgiven once the VA tuition and fees payment is credited to the account. Complete the Veterans Request for Certification form. Students must complete the form each semester in order to receive VA benefits for that semester. If 100% eligible for the Post-9/11 GI Bill®, complete the GS Yellow Ribbon Application. If less than 100% eligible for the Post-9/11 GI Bill®, , you may be considered for GS scholarship aid. Apply for the Yellow Ribbon Program The Yellow Ribbon Program is an initiative authorized by the Post-9/11 Veterans Educational Assistance Act that allows educational institutions to provide eligible student veterans a grant that is matched by the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs. The Program supplements the base tuition benefits provided by the Post-9/11 GI Bill®. For the 2021-2022 academic year, GS will grant an award through the Yellow Ribbon Program that is the equivalent to funding of up to $11,000 per year to all eligible students. This $11,000 will then be matched by the Department of Veterans Affairs for a total of $22,000 per academic year. Apply for the Yellow Ribbon Program Transferring Benefits from Another School Students who have utilized the Post-9/11 GI Bill® at another institution must complete VA form 22-1995 (Request for Change of Program or Place of Training). Once submitted and processed, VA will issue a new Certificate of Eligibility, which will have been generated out of the Buffalo Regional Office. Transferring Benefits to a Dependent The transferability option under the Post-9/11 GI Bill® allows service members to transfer all or some unused benefits to their spouse or dependent children. The Department of Defense (DOD) determines whether or not a service member can transfer benefits to his or her family. Once the DOD approves benefits for transfer, the new beneficiaries apply for them at VA (see Apply for Benefits). Students may learn more about transferability and apply for transfer of benefits on the DOD website. Study Abroad Information Study Abroad Information GI Bill® is a registered trademark of the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs (VA). More information about education benefits offered by VA is available at the official U.S. government Web site at www.benefits.va.gov/gibill. Contact Information VA Certifying Official Columbia University School of General Studies Office of Admissions and Educational Financing 408 Lewisohn Hall, MC 4101 2970 Broadway New York, NY 10027 Fax: (212) 854-6316 [email protected] Certification Requirement In addition to completing the online application, each semester students must complete the Veterans Request for Certification in order to receive VA benefits for that semester. New students should submit their VA Certificate of Eligibility to [email protected] or fax it to the General Studies Office of Educational Financing at 212-854-6316. University-Wide Military and Veteran Affairs Website Important Post-9/11 GI Bill (Chapter 33) Update Students using their Post-9/11 GI Bill® (Chapter 33) benefits and receiving a Monthly Housing Allowance (MHA) and/or kicker payment will be required to verify their enrollment by the end of each month to continue receiving their payments. Please review the FAQ’s and follow-up with the VA Education Call Center at 1-888-442-4551. Admissions Undergraduate Admissions Postbac Premed Admissions Newly Admitted Students U.S. Military Veterans International Dual Degree Programs Educational Financing Types of Financial Aid Financial Aid for Military Veterans Cost of Attendance Applying for Financial Aid Counseling Appointments Enrollment Update Form Student Account Refunds Academics Undergraduate Postbac Premed Program Applying to Medical School Academic Policies Faculty of Arts and Sciences Student Services Undergraduate Announcements Postbac Premed Announcements Academic Advising Academic Resource Center Campus Services Forms and Guides Graduation Health and Wellness Housing International Students Medical School Fair Planning Your Future Premedical Clinical and Research Positions Student Life Veterans Resources and Initiatives About Leadership Mission History Statistics and Facts Notable Alumni University Policies Events Staff Directory Faculty News Press Coverage Media Inquiries Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close