Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Student Leadership & Involvement Student Engagement Leadership Community Engagement Frosh Camp Fraternity & Sorority Life Student Organizations Contact Us Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact Student Engagement Registered Student Organizations Join an RSOStart/Manage an RSOAccountability StatusHazing PreventionAdvise an RSOPLATiger ZoneCorq App Spirit Initiatives Student Event Allocation What is SEA? How to Submit a Proposal Upcoming Events Student Activities Council About SACSAC CommitteesEvent CalendarJoin SAC Fraternities & Sororities About FSAPotential MembersMember ResourcesInformation for ParentsInterfraternity Council (IFC)National Pan-Hellenic Council (NPHC)Panhellenic Council (PAN) Involvement Ambassadors Report a Concern about a Student Take Action Register for Recruitment Register for Frosh Camp Tiger Zone About Us Follow SLI Online InstagramFacebooktwitter Home Student Leadership & Involvement Student Engagement Student Event Allocation Proposal How Do I Prepare and Submit a Proposal? Review the Student Event Allocations Guidelines & Procedures to gain insight on the proposal process. Ensure that your organization is registered with Student Leadership and Involvement and is listed as a Registered Student Organization for this academic year. Complete the Student Event Allocation budget request located on TigerZone. Please complete the SEA Packet in its entirety. Incomplete packets and TBDs will NOT be accepted (this includes dates, times, locations, artist information, etc.) Submit an online EMS request to reserve space for your program(s). The location for all events must be reserved before submitting the proposal to the SEA Committee. Submit the program proposal and other accompanying documents via Tiger Zone by the published deadline. The proposals will be reviewed by staff members and the Involvement Ambassadors. SEA proposals must be submitted within the appropriate timeframe. SEA Budget Request Filling out a Budget Request (SEA Request form) 1. Log into TigerZone using your UID and password 2. Click on the organization you would like to create an SEA request for 3. Click “Manage Organization” in the top right hand corner 4. Click the three horizontal lines on the left hand side to open the user drawer 5. Click the tab that says “Finance” 6. Once on this page click the blue button that says “Create Request” 7. From there click “Create Budget Request” 8. Click “SEA Request” 9. Move through the process answering questions as you would in previous semester with the SEA form 10. When you get to the tab titled “budget” you will click “+ Add item” under each section to add your line item budget 11. When done, click “Submit” SEA Change Request Form Deadline for Level 3 Proposals is April 9, 2021 LATE SUBMISSIONS WILL NOT BE ACCEPTED Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 9/1/21 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.