Skip to main content Toggle subitems Main navigation Meet Princeton Toggle sub-items In Service of Humanity Facts & Figures History Honors & Awards Contact Us Visit Us Our Faculty Our Students Our Alumni Our Staff Our Leadership Academic Freedom and Free Expression Academics Toggle sub-items Studying at Princeton Library Areas of Study Humanities Social Sciences Engineering Natural Sciences Advising Academic Calendar Course Tools Learning Abroad Career Development Continuing Education Innovative Learning Research Toggle sub-items Engineering & Applied Science Humanities Natural Sciences Social Sciences Interdisciplinary Approach Dean for Research Office External Partnerships Facilities & Labs One Community Toggle sub-items Lifelong Connections Student Life Arts & Culture Athletics Living in Princeton, N.J. Housing & Dining Activities & Organizations Cultural & Affinity Groups Health & Wellness Religious Life Serving the Public Good Families Admission & Aid Toggle sub-items Affordable for All About Financial Aid Current Undergraduate Financial Aid Undergraduate Admission Graduate Admission For International Students Utility menu News Events Work at Princeton Services & Resources Work-Life Balance Links for Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Giving Search Sites & People × Share on Facebook Share on Twitter Share on LinkedIn Email Print A Princeton discovery in quantum computing shows promise for silicon 'qubits' Tom Garlinghouse for the Department of Physics April 8, 2022, 9:36 a.m. This hyper-magnified view of a silicon-based device for quantum computing shows gate electrodes in blue, red and green that define the quantum dot potentials while the micromagnet on top provides a magnetic field gradient. The image was taken using scanning electron microscopy and the colors were applied for clarity. Photo by Adam Mills, Princeton University A discovery by Princeton physicists is paving the way for silicon-based technologies in quantum computing, especially as quantum bits — the basic units of quantum computers. Why it matters: Silicon is a naturally abundant element, which is why it is found in everyday materials from sand to computer chips. But as much as manufacturers might like to build quantum bits from silicon, the science hasn’t caught up — yet. Instead, some major companies have been building their computers based on superconducting qubits, which don’t last as long and are extremely large. Silicon qubits last a long time and could be easier to mass produce, but until now, silicon qubits have been a bit of an underdog technology. They may finally be getting their day, through work from Jason Petta’s group and others in this field, said Adam Mills, a graduate student in Petta’s lab at the Department of Physics at Princeton University and the lead author of a recently published paper in the journal Science Advances. “It’s looking like a big year for silicon overall.” By using a silicon device called a double quantum dot, Petta, Mills and their team successfully captured two electrons and forced them to interact, resulting in an unprecedented level of fidelity: above 99.8 percent, on par with the best results achieved by competing technologies. (Fidelity, which is a measure of a qubit’s ability to perform error-free operations, is a key feature in the quest to develop practical and efficient quantum computing.) A qubit, in simplest terms, is a quantum version of a computer bit, which is the smallest unit of data in a computer. Like its classical counterpart, the qubit is encoded with information that can have the value of either one or zero. But unlike the bit, the qubit exploits the concepts of quantum mechanics, giving quantum computers a greater advantage over conventional computers in, for example, factoring very large numbers or isolating the most optimal solution to a problem. In general, silicon spin qubits have advantages over other qubit types, said Mills. “Every system is going to have to scale up to many qubits,” he said. “And right now, the other qubit systems have real physical limitations to scalability. Size could be a real problem with these systems. There’s only so much space you can cram these things into.” In comparison, silicon spin qubits are made from single electrons and are extremely small. “Our devices are just about 100 nanometers across, while a conventional superconducting qubit is more like 300 microns across, so if you want to make many on a chip, it’s going to be difficult using a superconducting approach,” said Petta, the Eugene Higgins Professor of Physics at Princeton and the senior author of the paper. There are 1,000 nanometers in one micron (micrometer), so the Princeton devices are about 3,000 times smaller than their competitors. The other advantage of silicon spin qubits, Petta added, is that conventional electronics today are based on silicon technology. “Our feeling is that if you really want to make a million or 10 million qubits that are going to be required to do something practical, that’s only going to happen in a solid-state system that can be scaled using the standard semiconductor fabrication industry.” Read the full story on the Department of Physics website. Related Stories New silicon structure opens the gate to quantum computers Read more Better together: Silicon qubits plus light add up to new quantum computing capability Read more Electron-photon small-talk could have big impact on quantum computing Read more In leap for quantum computing, silicon quantum bits establish a long-distance relationship Read more Quantum computing: Opening new realms of possibilities Read more Princeton scientist makes a leap in quantum computing Read more Rice-sized laser, powered one electron at a time, bodes well for quantum computing Read more View All News Contact links Contact Us Accessibility Advanced People Search Media Inquiries Website Feedback Visiting links Plan a Visit Maps & Shuttles Varsity Athletics Giving to Princeton Academic links Library Academic Calendar Student Links Faculty & Staff Links Footer social media Facebook Twitter Instagram Snapchat LinkedIn YouTube Social Media Directory Equal Opportunity and Nondiscrimination at Princeton University: Princeton University believes that commitment to principles of fairness and respect for all is favorable to the free and open exchange of ideas, and the University seeks to reach out as widely as possible in order to attract the ablest individuals as students, faculty, and staff. In applying this policy, the University is committed to nondiscrimination on the basis of personal beliefs or characteristics such as political views, religion, national or ethnic origin, race, color, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity or expression, pregnancy, age, marital or domestic partnership status, veteran status, disability, genetic information and/or other characteristics protected by applicable law in any phase of its education or employment programs or activities. In addition, pursuant to Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 and supporting regulations, Princeton does not discriminate on the basis of sex in the education programs or activities that it operates; this extends to admission and employment. Inquiries about the application of Title IX and its supporting regulations may be directed to the Assistant Secretary for Civil Rights, Office for Civil Rights, U.S. Department of Education or to the University's Sexual Misconduct/Title IX Coordinator. See Princeton’s full Equal Opportunity Policy and Nondiscrimination Statement. Princeton University Princeton, NJ 08544 Operator: (609) 258-3000 © 2022 The Trustees of Princeton University Subfooter links Copyright Infringement Privacy Notice