Skip to main content Skip to site menu Skip to Brown menu Skip to site search Information For: Current Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Brown University Enter search keyword About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life A to Z Index People Directory Office of the Chaplains and Religious Life Places: To Pray, to Gather, to Meet Office of the Chaplains and Religious Life Places: To Pray, to Gather, to Meet Spaces Managed by the OCRL The Office of the Chaplains oversees and is connected to a number of spaces on campus including two meeting rooms in Page-Robinson Hall, and Manning Chapel, located in Manning Hall. To check ahead for availabity you can view the google calendars for each room here, or email your reservation request to Chloe Clasper-Torch at [email protected]. Page-Robinson Meeting Room 409 This small meeting room is equipped with a small table, couches and chairs, for a relaxed and cozy atmosphere that may be used for individual, or small group bookings. Capacity: 10 | Check Availability Page-Robinson Meeting Room 411 This large meeting room is equipped with tables, chairs, and couches. The regular set-up of the room houses a lounge area and seminar-style meeting area. All furniture is movable to meet your groups needs, however we request that rooms be returned to their original state for the next meeting. Available tech: Large TV with HDMI & WiFi capabailities. Additional amenities: Sink, countertop space. Capacity: 35 | Check Availability Manning Chapel Manning Chapel may only be reserved for religious or spiritual purposes. This space is ecumenical in its weekly use, home to our Catholic Masses, Meditation Group, Protestant Worship, and more! Capacity: 200 | Check Availability Meditation Room, Page-Robinson Room 412 No reservation is needed. Please utilize the board on the front of the door to let folks know if the room is in use. Please be respectful that this is a shared space. There are additional Prayer & Meditation Rooms that may be accessed by students, faculty and staff, throughout the campus. Retreats Contemplative Studies at Brown has put together a list of Suggested Retreat Locations, categorized by affiliation. Home About News & Events Religious Communities and Services Programs & Projects Places: To Pray, to Gather, to Meet Manning Chapel Manning Chapel and Meeting Room Availability Prayer and Meditation Rooms About the Sayles Hall Hutchings-Votey (1903) Organ Map and Directions Resources on Campus Print this Page Share this Page Office of the Chaplains and Religious Life Brown University Box 1931 Page Robinson Building (formerly J. Walter Wilson), Room 410 69 Brown Street Providence, RI 02912 Phone 401-863-2344 Fax 401-863-9359 [email protected] Calendar Sep 6 All Day Opening Convocation at 4:00 p.m.EDT Sep 7 All Day Classes of the first semester begin. Oct 10 All Day Indigenous Peoples’ Day. No University exercises. Nov 8 All Day United States Election Day. No University exercises. Nov 23 All Day Thanksgiving recess beginning Wednesday at noon EST. View full calendar > Brown University Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-1000 Maps & Directions / Contact Us / Accessibility © 2022 Brown University Connect: [email protected] Facebook Twitter YouTube iTunes U LinkedIn SnapChat Resources A to Z Index Career Opportunities Make a Gift People Directory