Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. Tangeman University Center TUC right arrow down arrow Visiting TUC right arrow down arrow Floor Plans Dining right arrow down arrow Catering Convenience Store Vending Services Retail right arrow down arrow UC Bookstores right arrow down arrow Course Materials & Tech Fan Gear For Grads & Alumni, Plus Special Orders Bearcat Card right arrow down arrow Where to Use Your Bearcat Card Terms & Conditions Frequently Asked Questions Information for Merchants PNC Bank & ATMs Convenience Store Services right arrow down arrow Study Spaces MainStreet Connection Center Wepa Print Station Lost & Found Steger Student Life Center (SSLC) Bearcat Promise Career Studio Promotions Request Meetings & Events right arrow down arrow Great Hall Meeting Rooms Other Event Spaces Rates Planning Services Request a Space About TUC right arrow down arrow Larry Elsasser Scholarship & Recipients Video Backgrounds Home » Campus Life » TUC » Visiting TUC Set Navigation title in component Floor Plans Visiting TUC Tangeman University Center (TUC) is a 240,000 square foot student center located in the heart of MainStreet. This four-story building is the home of the iconic clock tower that plays UC’s Alma Mater twice daily at noon and 6 p.m. TUC is the central campus location offering the university community a vast variety of dining options, shopping, and meeting spaces.  Quick Links Current Semester Hours TUC Building MainStreet Connection Center - Information Desk & Bearcat Card Deposits Bearcat Promise Career Studio Food Court UC Bookstores MainStreet ExpressMart PNC Bank Severe Weather Policy Getting Here COVID-19 Information See the latest guidance on facial coverings. See the latest guidance on social distancing. Hours Hours subject to change as announced by university officials. Building is closed for all university holidays. TUC Building Hours TUC building hours by day of the week - Begining May 1 (Summer Hours) Days of the Week Hours Monday - Thursday 7 a.m. - 7 p.m. Friday 7 a.m. - 6 p.m. Saturday 10 a.m. - 2 p.m. Sunday Closed MainStreet Connection Center - Information Desk & Bearcat Card Deposits Summer Semester Hours of operation for the MainStreet Connection Center by day of the week Day Hours Monday - Friday 10 a.m. - 4 p.m. Saturday - Sunday Closed Food Court Find hours for food court brands Qdoba, Chik-fil-A, Panda Express and Switch'n Kitchen; dining center Mick & Mack's; Catskeller; and Subway in SSLC on Campus Dish. UC Bookstores Current hours for UC Bookstores on Levels 2 and 3 may be found in Store Info on their website. Quick Mick's (during ExpressMart renovation) Fall Semester hours of operation for ExpressMart by day of the week Day Hours Monday - Friday 9 a.m. - 5 p.m. Saturday - Sunday Closed PNC Bank Hours of operation for PNC Bank by day of the week Days of the Week Hours Monday - Friday 9 a.m. - 5 p.m. Saturday - Sunday Closed Atm locations Severe Weather Policy TUC will follow the university's severe weather policy. Be sure to review the more detailed policies related specifically to TUC. Getting Here Coordinates Building coordinates provide exact location of the main entrance on the west side of the building. These coordinates should not be used for driving or parking, but for identifying the building on a map. 39.13180, -84.51772 Google plus 4FJ+PW Cincinnati, OH Parking Due to the TUC location in the middle of the Uptown Main campus, most parking facilities are convenient. While the most convenient location is the CCM Garage, it is also the most popular if there are events or other activities on campus. Use our convenient Visitor Tracker before you head to campus to find out which facilities have capacity. Tangeman University Center 2766 UC MainStreet Cincinnati, OH 45221 513-556-2831 mainstreet@uc.edu UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati Tangeman University Center 2766 UC MainStreet Cincinnati, OH 45221 513-556-2831 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top