Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Fogelman College - Professional MBA Welcome Admissions Tuition, Fees, & Financial Aid Current MBA Students Faculty FAQs FCBE Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact Take Action See Other MBA Options Apply Now Contact Us Return to FCBE Follow Us Online Facebooktwitter Home Professional MBA Tuition & Fees Tuition, Fees and Financial Aid The Professional MBA Program at the Fogelman College of Business & Economics is exceptionally price competitive. On this page, you will find the following information: Resources Tuition Rates Fees Estimating Total Cost per Course Financial Aid On-Campus Employment for Students General Information and Resources To find the most up-to-date information about tuition and fees, please visit the University & Student Business Services website. To estimate your tuition and fee payments, please visit the University of Memphis Tuition Calculator. To find which tuition rates are applicable to you, please read the Guidelines for Classification of Students for Fee Paying Purposes. Note: All students who take online classes only are eligible for enrollment in UM Global, which guarantees in-state tuition rates. To learn more about UM Global, please visit the UM Global website. Please note that tuition and fees are subject to change. The rates described below apply to students who take 10 hours or less per semester. For rates applicable to more than 10 hours, please visit the University & Student Business Services website. Tuition Rates The table below provides tuition rates per credit hour. Tuition rates depend on student classification for fee paying purposes. Student Classification Tuition US$ per credit hour In-State / UM Global $606 Out-of-State $808 International $1,009 Fees Aside from tuition, all MBA students must pay a Business course fee for each credit hour of course work. Type of Fee US$ per credit hour Business course fee $35 Business Course fees are used to support the program in various ways and apply to all graduate courses taken at the Fogelman College, including online courses. Estimating Total Tuition and Fees per Course We provide an estimate of the total cost of taking any MBA course, depending on student classification. Each MBA course requires 3 credit hours of coursework (see curriculum requirements). The tables below show the total cost per course in US dollars. Payment Category In-State & UM Global Students Out-of-State Students Inter-national Students Tuition $1,818 $2,424 $3,027 Business Course Fee $105 $105 $105 Total cost $1,923 $2,529 $3,132 How much will my MBA cost? The total cost for your MBA will depend on how many courses you take: MBA with Concenttration: 14 courses. MBA without Concentration: 12 courses. Dual Degree: if you are enrolled in a dual degree, you may need to take fewer courses. Please visit our Dual Degree page for more details. Click on your fee-payment category below for an estimate: In-state and UM Global students Out-of-state students International Students In-State Students Total Cost = US$ 1,923 x # of courses taken For example: If you do not complete a concentration, your total cost will be US$ 1,923 x 12 = US$ 23,076 Out-of-State Students Total Cost = US$ 2,526 x total # of courses taken For example: If you do not complete a concentration, your total cost will be: US$ 2,526 x 12 = US$ 30,312 International Students Total Cost = US$ 3,132 x total # of courses taken For example: If you do not complete a concentration, your total cost will be: US$ 3,132 x 12 = US$ 37,584 If you need help, please do not hesitate to email us at professional-mba@memphis.edu. Financial Aid and Scholarships For information about financial aid, please visit the Student Financial Aid Office website. For scholarships available to on-campus students, please visit the FCBE Scholarship website. For scholarships available to international students, please visit the International Student Services Office. On-Campus Employment for Students The MBA program does not offer graduate assistantships, but you may find on-campus employment using the resources below. If you are an international student, you will need to fulfill certain conditions. Please visit the International Students Services Website to find more information. Tiger Link There may be campus-wide employment opportunities or assistantships available that you can access using TigerLink. This includes work that is done for the university, or for commercial firms operating on campus (such as Starbucks). UMRF Ventures The UMRF Ventures is a company affiliated with the University of Memphis, that provides part-time on-campus jobs for University of Memphis students. UMRF Ventures works with partner companies, develops customized service companies that employ UofM students, and establishes a talent pipeline for those partners to hire UofM students when they graduate. Click here to learn more. Click here to apply for a job. Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 2/24/22 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.