Skip to main content Google Tag Manager Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Prospective Newly Admitted Current Alumni Columbia University School of General Studies Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Admissions Educational Financing Academics Student Services About Undergraduate Admissions How to Apply Eligibility Application Deadlines and Decisions Information Sessions/Campus Visits Transfer Students Postbac Premed Admissions How to Apply Eligibility Application Deadlines and Decisions Information Sessions/Campus Visits Newly Admitted Students International Students Planning Day Placement Exams University-Wide Placement Exams U.S. Military Veterans International Dual Degree Programs Types of Financial Aid Institutional Scholarships Federal and State Grants Loans Private Scholarships and Grants Student Employment Financial Aid for Military Veterans Post-9/11 GI Bill® and the Yellow Ribbon Program Veterans Request for Certification Cost of Attendance Applying for Financial Aid Prospective Students Newly Admitted Students Current Students University Employees Postbac Premed Students Counseling Appointments Enrollment Update Form Student Account Refunds Undergraduate The Core Curriculum Degree Fulfillment Course Listings Majors and Concentrations Research Opportunities Study Abroad Academic Calendar Postbac Premed Program Curriculum & Courses Sample Schedule Course Listings Preparatory Coursework Previously Completed Coursework Glide Year Master’s Programs Academic Calendar Applying to Medical School General Admission Linkage Admission Linkage Specific Program Requirements Reapplicants Letters of Recommendation Academic Policies Registration Enrollment and Courseload Leaves and Withdrawals Academic Integrity and Standards Faculty of Arts and Sciences Undergraduate Announcements Postbac Premed Announcements Academic Advising Academic Resource Center Programs & Services Jumpstart Series Tutoring Peer Advising Campus Services Forms and Guides Graduation Health and Wellness Housing International Students Medical School Fair Planning Your Future Accelerated Master's Programs Fellowships and Research Premedical Clinical and Research Positions Student Life Leadership Development Multicultural & Social Justice Education Programs Student Organizations Upcoming Events Veterans Resources and Initiatives Leadership Mission History Statistics and Facts Notable Alumni University Policies Events Staff Directory Faculty News Press Coverage Media Inquiries School of General Studies You are here: Home News 2022 Grad Profile: Isadora Saslavsky Muszkat Profile 2022 Grad Profile: Isadora Saslavsky Muszkat May 05, 2022 Isadora Saslavsky Muszkat Dual Degree Program with Tel Aviv University Where are you from? Brazil Major: Philosophy and sustainable development Tell us about your path to GS! My first university experience started in 2015 in Brazil, studying architecture and urban studies. I decided to take a break from studying and go on a gap year in 2018. During that time, I worked for an architecture office in Tel Aviv for six months and then backpacked by myself around Europe for the other six. Working in architecture made me realize that maybe that wasn’t the right field for me—and the solo backpack trip only emphasized that. I met people from the most diverse backgrounds and learned that life had many more possibilities than I knew. I also fell in love with Tel Aviv and my life there, so I applied to transfer to Tel Aviv University (TAU). I made a 30-slide PowerPoint presentation to convince my parents that I wasn’t just trying to run away and get them on board with my idea! A couple of months later, I began studying philosophy and Middle Eastern studies at TAU, which I absolutely adored. During my time in Tel Aviv, I worked in a coffee shop, which was vital to learning some Hebrew, getting more integrated into society, and making friends. One year later, TAU and Columbia launched their Dual Degree Program. Again, I saw the opportunity to experiment with something new and enhance my academic experience. I was especially attracted by the Columbia sustainable development major. I took my chances and applied to transfer again from the regular liberal arts program to the dual degree, and here I am now. Essentially, my curiosity and love for learning made me take all the opportunities life presented to me and brought me to GS. What has been your proudest Columbia moment? My proudest moment so far has been my experience writing and presenting my senior thesis on religious environmentalism in Muslim communities in the U.S. I am super passionate about the topic, love doing research, and got excellent feedback from my colleagues and my professors on this work. This thesis was one way I managed to unite my three areas of study into one project. It has been a lot of hard work, but a gratifying experience. However, I think my proudest moment of all will be when I finally graduate after such a long and challenging journey. Who are some people who have contributed the most to your Columbia experience? The professors and staff of the sustainable development major and my academic advisor definitely contributed to my experience at Columbia. I always felt they cared about students' well-being and wanted to see us do well. Also, every group I was a part of at Columbia had something really special to offer. I love the diversity you can find here. I was a part of Orchesis's dance group, the ESG Analysts from Columbia University’s Impact Investing Network, the Sustainable Development Student Network, and the Shotokan Karate Group. If I had more time on campus (which I didn't because of the pandemic), I would have done much more! What are your plans for after graduation? I am looking for a job in NYC after I graduate. I would like to work as an Environmental, Social, and Governance (ESG) Analyst. I want to help companies understand how well they are doing according to sustainability metrics and standards and how they can do better. Also, I would like to help inform and engage investors to invest in companies that positively impact society and the natural environment. What advice would you give to a Columbia student starting their GS journey? Talk to everyone. Ask what people are doing at Columbia, what kind of groups and clubs they are in, the initiatives they contribute to, what they work with, etc. One thing that I realized, unfortunately too late, is that Columbia offers endless things to engage with, and you will never find out about everything by yourself on the internet. You can find out about things that really interest you and make connections that can help you get involved with those things by talking to people. Also, do not forget to ask GS students about their life stories. You will be dazzled. Tags Student Profile Dual and Joint Degree Programs News May 27, 2022 Join Us: Columbia Reunion Weekend in New York City May 26, 2022 Lewisohn Hall Summer Closure | Summer 2022 Temporary Relocation to Uris Hall May 26, 2022 Postbac Premed Program Institutional Scholarship Application May 24, 2022 GS Celebrates the Class of 2022 at Class Day Ceremony May 24, 2022 Academic Resource Center Summer Offerings Admissions Undergraduate Admissions Postbac Premed Admissions Newly Admitted Students U.S. Military Veterans International Dual Degree Programs Educational Financing Types of Financial Aid Financial Aid for Military Veterans Cost of Attendance Applying for Financial Aid Counseling Appointments Enrollment Update Form Student Account Refunds Academics Undergraduate Postbac Premed Program Applying to Medical School Academic Policies Faculty of Arts and Sciences Student Services Undergraduate Announcements Postbac Premed Announcements Academic Advising Academic Resource Center Campus Services Forms and Guides Graduation Health and Wellness Housing International Students Medical School Fair Planning Your Future Premedical Clinical and Research Positions Student Life Veterans Resources and Initiatives About Leadership Mission History Statistics and Facts Notable Alumni University Policies Events Staff Directory Faculty News Press Coverage Media Inquiries Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close