Skip to main content Skip to main navigation Department of Religion College of Arts and Sciences Menu Welcome Contact Information Diversity Calendar of Events News Pro Futuris Tidwell Building Rev. Robert L. Gilbert Our Faculty Books by Our Faculty New Faculty Coming In August 2022 Undergraduate What Can I Do With a Religion Major? The Religion Major / Minor REL1310 and 1350 for Religion Majors Outstanding Student Awards Study Abroad Opportunities Exam Schedule Graduate Prospective Students About Us The Program and the Curriculum Admissions Process Baylor Benefits Graduate Theological Fellowship Current Students Registration Services, Publications, and Organizations Travel Funds Preliminary Exams Dissertation Graduation Ministry Guidance Religion Courses of Particular Interest to Ministry Students Program Elements Ministry Placement Preparing a Résumé Preparing a Cover Letter Christian Camps Mission Connections Scholarships BGCT Ministry Scholarship Hubler Endowed Scholarship Baylor Ministry Scholarship Wedemeyer Memorial Scholarship Vocational Ministry FAQ Seminary Financial Aid and Scholarship Opportunities Baylor2 Seminary Program Events Sponsored by Ministry Guidance Affiliated Programs Baptist Studies Center for Research J. M. Dawson Institute of Church-State Studies Perspectives in Religious Studies Baylor and Beyond Living Learning Center Baylor in St. Andrews Lectures Lectures Sponsored by the Department Robert D. and Barbara H. Whitten Endowed Lecture Series Welcome to the Department of Religion The Department of Religion is a community of faculty members, staff, undergraduate and PhD students, who work together on issues of religious identity and the journey of faith in our world. We affirm Baylor’s mission for Christian higher education—our academic reputation highlights vigorous research and teaching, service to the church and the academy, and collegiality. Read More Undergraduate Program Our undergraduate program in religion invites students to inquire more deeply into the Christian faith, to gain an enhanced appreciation of the contributions of Christianity to the development of twenty-first century culture, and to prepare for life-long lay or career ministry. We offer courses of study in Biblical Studies, Historical Studies, Theological Studies, Practical Studies, and World Religions. Learn More About the Undergraduate Program Graduate Program Our Religion Department provides the context for a flourishing Ph.D. program with concentrations offered in the Old Testament, New Testament, Historical and Theological Areas. Faculty are committed to a strong research agenda, and that agenda is tied to the Baylor tradition of providing the very finest in classroom instruction. Baylor continues to move toward its goal of becoming a top tier university and the department along with the university remains friendly to faith and to church, thus providing a distinctive setting in American higher education. Learn More About the Graduate Program Faculty Scholars and Mentors The faculty of the Department of Religion is made up of top scholars in the fields of biblical studies, church history, theology and ethics, world religions, and practical studies, and offer students an opportunity to join with them on a journey together towards truth and understanding. While committed to academic excellence, our faculty members also understand that helping to shape students’ whole their vocation as helping to shape students’ lives. They strive to connect with students, and upper-level courses are intentionally kept small in order to help foster greater interaction between students and faculty. Learn More About Our Faculty Scholars and Mentors Ministry Guidance Program The Ministry Guidance program at Baylor University is designed to help students who are exploring careers in ministry - referred to as ministry students - to clarify and affirm their call to ministry and to introduce them to ministry as a vocation. Coordinated through the Ministry Guidance office in the Department of Religion, the program seeks to assist students who feel called to vocational ministry, including preaching, missions, music, religious education, youth, recreation, as well as various other ministries. Learn More About Our Ministry Guidance Program News & Events Apr 14 2022 Tidwell Bible Building’s hidden treasures revealed after renovation After a 15-month renovation that started in 2020, Tidwell Bible Building reopened for the start of the fall 2021 semester. With the renovation, Tidwell is now able to display artifacts from biblical times that were acquired with the help of Dr. Bruce Cresson, a former professor in the Department of Religion. Dec 2 2021 Rev. Robert L. Gilbert Portrait The Department of Religion is honored to display a portrait of Rev. Robert L. Gilbert in the 1st floor lobby. Rev. Robert L. Gilbert — an influential educator, pastor and civil rights leader in the Waco area — graduated from Baylor in 1967 with a B.A. in religion. In 1970, he became the first African-American to enroll in Baylor’s graduate program in the department of religion. Aug 25 2021 Baylor University Celebrates Newly Renovated Tidwell Bible Building WACO, Texas (Aug. 25, 2021) – During a ceremonial ribbon cutting, Baylor University today celebrated the opening of the newly-renovated Tidwell Bible Building, one of many historic buildings that make up the core of the University’s campus. May 16 2022 Minimester session (ends 06/02/2022) Jun 3 2022 Summer Session I (ends 07/08/2022) Jun 3 2022 Full Summer session (ends 08/12/2022) Jun 20 2022 Juneteenth - University Holiday Jul 4 2022 Independence Day - University Holiday Follow Us on Social Media Apply Now Make a Gift Contact Us Visit Campus Show More General Information Colleges, Schools, Libraries & Research Admissions Administration Gateways For... About Baylor Anonymous Reporting Athletics Ask Baylor Bookstore Calendar Campus Map Directory Give Light Give to Baylor Illuminate Mental Health Resources News Pro Futuris Report It Search Social Media Title IX Baylor Libraries College of Arts & Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work George W. Truett Theological Seminary Graduate School Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Louise Herrington School of Nursing Research at Baylor University Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Engineering & Computer Science School of Music More Academics Undergraduate Admissions goBAYLOR Graduate Admissions Baylor Law School Admissions Social Work Graduate Programs George W. Truett Theological Seminary Admissions Online Graduate Professional Education Virtual Tour Visit Campus Annual Fire Safety and Security Notice Athletics Human Resources Marketing and Communications Office of General Counsel Office of the President Office of the Provost Operations, Finance & Administration Senior Administration Student Life University Advancement Baylor Alumni Faculty & Staff Online Graduate Professional Education Parents Prospective Faculty & Staff Prospective Students Students Department of Religion Facebook Department of Religion One Bear Place #97284 Waco, TX 76798-7284 (254) 710-3735 Copyright © Baylor® University. All rights reserved. Legal Disclosures. Baylor University • Waco, Texas 76798 • 1-800-229-5678 Welcome Contact Information Diversity Calendar of Events News Pro Futuris Tidwell Building Rev. Robert L. Gilbert Our Faculty Books by Our Faculty New Faculty Coming In August 2022 Undergraduate What Can I Do With a Religion Major? The Religion Major / Minor REL1310 and 1350 for Religion Majors Outstanding Student Awards Study Abroad Opportunities Exam Schedule Graduate Prospective Students About Us Introductory Video Faculty Profiles and Area Descriptions Old Testament Faculty New Testament Faculty Historical Studies Faculty Theological Studies Faculty Religion Department Facebook Page Student Publications Graduation and Placement Data 50th Anniversary Life at Baylor/Waco The Program and the Curriculum Description of PhD Program Description of MA Program List of all Graduate Courses Offered by the Religion Department List of current courses offered Admissions Process Financial Aid & Summer Stipends Tips for Applying Application link Link to the Graduate School's website Link to the Graduate School's catalog website Baylor Benefits Travel awards Summer stipend Research resources Insurance benefit Parental Leave Graduate Theological Fellowship Current Students Registration Registration for current students Registration for new students Link to the Graduate School's catalog website Individual Courses (REL 5V00) 5V00 Individual Courses Syllabi Examples Services, Publications, and Organizations Student Publications Publications Reporting Form Link to Graduate School Petition Form Link to the Graduate School's website Summer GA work Graduate School Semester Calendars Graduate Research Center Religion Dept. Facebook Page Graduate Theological Fellowship Parental Leave Travel Funds Preliminary Exams Preliminary Exam Dates & Registration Procedure Preliminary Exam Registration Form Graduate Research Center Dissertation Graduation Ministry Guidance Religion Courses of Particular Interest to Ministry Students Program Elements Ministry Placement Preparing a Résumé Preparing a Cover Letter Christian Camps Mission Connections Scholarships BGCT Ministry Scholarship Hubler Endowed Scholarship Baylor Ministry Scholarship Wedemeyer Memorial Scholarship Vocational Ministry FAQ Seminary Financial Aid and Scholarship Opportunities Baylor2 Seminary Program Events Sponsored by Ministry Guidance Affiliated Programs Baptist Studies Center for Research J. M. Dawson Institute of Church-State Studies Perspectives in Religious Studies Baylor and Beyond Living Learning Center Baylor in St. Andrews Lectures Lectures Sponsored by the Department Robert D. and Barbara H. Whitten Endowed Lecture Series