By continuing to use this site, you agree to the use of cookies in accordance with our privacy policy. Dismiss Stay Safe The official source of public health information for Syracuse University. Skip to Content Open menu About Admissions Academics Life Athletics More Search the University Open search Popular searches Close menu Home About Toggle dropdown Leadership Vision & Mission Consumer Information Facts & Figures Plan Your Visit Campus Map History News Partnerships Work at Syracuse Social Media Bookstore Brand Help & Contacts Admissions Toggle dropdown Undergraduate Graduate Online Part-Time Cost & Aid Request Information Visit & Tour Apply Academics Toggle dropdown Schools & Colleges Undergraduate Majors & Minors Graduate Degrees Online Programs Syracuse University Global Study Abroad Opportunities & Support Calendars Departments Research Centers & Institutes Libraries, Collections & Galleries Academic Administration Life Toggle dropdown Accessibility & Diversity Campus Highlights Events Calendar Services & Support Meals & Dining Housing Groups & Activities Recreation & Facilities For Students For Veterans & Military For Faculty & Staff For Parents & Families A-Z Index Sitemap Login Athletics Men’s Sports Toggle dropdown Basketball Cross Country Football Lacrosse Rowing Soccer Track and Field Women’s Sports Toggle dropdown Basketball Cross Country Field Hockey Ice Hockey Lacrosse Rowing Soccer Softball Tennis Track and Field Volleyball Athletics Dept. Toggle dropdown Facilities Staff Directory Academic Honors Community Service Spirit Program Varsity Club Sports Medicine Championships Fan Zone Toggle dropdown Dome Schedule Seating Information Orange All Access Otto’s Kids Club Game Photos Promotions Orange Club Schedules News Alumni About Toggle dropdown Notable Alumni Alumni Association Awards News Events and Clubs Toggle dropdown Orange Central Northeast Midwest South West World/Affinity Regions Toggle dropdown Atlanta Boston Chicago Los Angeles Middle East New York San Francisco Washington, DC Services Toggle dropdown Career Network Generation Orange Directory Profile Class Notes Giving Contact Contact Visit Apply Coronavirus Updates Forever Orange Home Academics Syracuse Abroad Semester Programs More from this Section Why Syracuse Abroad? Contact Us or Request More Information Program Selector Tool FAQs Affording Study Abroad Information for Accepted Students Requirements and Deadlines Short-Term Programs: Summer and Academic Breaks Semester Programs Syracuse Abroad’s centers and feature programs let you explore a new country and culture deeply, with personalized and familiar University support on hand. We also join forces with other exceptional study abroad organizations to give Syracuse University students the option to study in more than 40 locations around the world. Begin Your Application Syracuse University Centers and Featured Programs Syracuse Abroad centers—extensions of the Syracuse University campus—are widely recognized for their focus on student success, their quality of academic and cultural programming, and innovative experiential learning opportunities. Each is managed by a director, along with multicultural staff, delivering unparalleled academic programs and support services to students studying abroad. You can expect a curriculum that is rigorous, innovative and distinguished by Syracuse University's exceptional standards. Florence, Italy Link Expand your education in beautiful Florence, where the architecture, art, food, fashion, design and literature of the city will enrich your studies. First-semester study abroad available. London, England Link Want a truly international education? With unsurpassed social and ethnic diversity, London is a cultural and economic hub for the world. Madrid, Spain Link Historic architecture and modern infrastructure, art and enterprise: Let the vibrant capital of Spain be your classroom! First-semester study abroad available. Santiago, Chile Link From the top of the Andes to the Southern Cone, Santiago is your gateway to the language, history and cultures of South America. Strasbourg, France Link Live and learn in a vibrant university town at the heart of Europe, where nations come together to determine policy and shape European identity. First-semester study abroad available. Central Europe (featured program) Link From your home base in vibrant Wroclaw, Poland, study Central Europe’s transformation by traveling to eight cities in six countries. World Partner Affiliated Programs Through our World Partner Affiliated Programs, Syracuse University joins forces with other exceptional study abroad organizations and universities, giving Syracuse University students access to semester-long programs in more than 40 locations around the world. Whether you’re part of a small group studying a specific theme or on the campus of a partner university, you’ll have access to the resources and facilities of the local partner, and support and guidance from Syracuse University. Our World Partner Affiliated Programs are available only to Syracuse University students. World Partner Affiliated Programs Link World Partner Affiliated Programs enable Syracuse University to offer approximately 60 programs in more than 40 locations around the world. Connect with Syracuse Abroad through general advising sessions or program appointments. Drop-in or schedule a virtual or in-person advising session at SyracuseAbroad@Bird Monday-Friday from 11 a.m. to 5 p.m. Or, schedule an appointment to meet with a Syracuse Abroad program advisor. View all advising options View all advising options. Popular Toggle dropdown Academic Calendar Campus Map Careers Libraries Majors and Minors Visit and Tour A-Z Toggle dropdown Academic Departments Schools and Colleges Sitemap Search Contact Toggle dropdown Admissions Financial Aid Emergency Contacts Human Resources Make a Gift Login Toggle dropdown MySlice Blackboard SUMail Syracuse University 900 South Crouse Ave. Syracuse, NY 13244 Phone: +1.315.443.1870 Follow S.U. on Instagram Like S.U. on Facebook Follow S.U. on Twitter Follow S.U. on LinkedIn Follow S.U. on Tiktok Subscribe to S.U. on YouTube © Syracuse University. Knowledge crowns those who seek her. Accessibility Accreditation Emergencies Privacy