Skip to main content Skip to main navigation Faculty & Staff Menu About Baylor Academics Baylor University Press College of Arts & Sciences Commencement Diana R. Garland School of Social Work Exam Schedule George W. Truett Theological Seminary Graduate School Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Libraries Louise Herrington School of Nursing More Academics Music, School of Office of the Provost Office of the Registrar Professional Education Research Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Engineering & Computer Science Administration Administrative Departments Faculty Senate Institutional Effectiveness Office of the President Office of the Provost Organizational Chart Senior Administration Staff Council Facilities & Campus Services Baylor Bookstore Catering Services Copying Services Dining Services Facility Services Institutional Events Mail Services Parking & Transportation Submit Work Order University Sustainability Zipcar Finance Accounts Payable Ignite Ignite Information & Training KLX Payroll Office Purchasing Card Student Financial Services Travel & Expense Human Resources About HR BAYLORplus Benefits Compensation Employee Relations Employment Employment Laws Faculty Ombudsperson ID Card Ignite Ignite Information & Training Information Release Keep Working (Return to Campus) Learn & Grow Retirement Student Employment Tuition Benefits News & Information Baylor Magazine Baylor News Online Baylor Proud Institutional Research KWBU FM Lariat Newspaper Media and Public Relations Online Tools Academic Administrative Resource Center Academic Progress Reports Accommodate Alumni Search Banner 8 Baylor Box Service Bearweb Canvas ChairSIS ClassRoll Course Action System Course Evaluations Faculty Directory Ignite Ignite Information & Training Navigate/Student Success Collaborative (SSC) Online Directory Schedule of Classes uAchieve Unified Advising System Policies & Manuals Academic Integrity and Honor Code Brand Guide Contract Review and Approval Process EthicsPoint: Anonymous Reporting Export Compliance Faculty Handbook Federal Compliance & Student Consumer Information Financial and Procurement Services Policies Information Systems Policies & Procedures PCI Compliance Personnel Policies Report It Sexual and Interpersonal Misconduct/Title IX Student Conduct Administration Trademark & DMCA Information Travel and Entertainment Guidelines & Policies University Compliance and Risk Services Safety & Security Clery Act Coronavirus (COVID-19) Information Department of Public Safety Environmental Health & Safety Report It Sexual and Interpersonal Misconduct/Title IX University Compliance and Risk Services Technology Activate Bear ID/Change Password E-mail/Outlook Web Access Help Desk HelpDesk+ Information Technology Services ITS - Self Service Help Learning Together LinkedIn Learning with Lynda.com Content Technology for Faculty Technology Purchasing Training & Development Academy for Teaching and Learning Faculty Development STEPP Program Technology Seminars/Training Quicklinks Accommodate Baylor Athletics Baylor Round Table Campus Map Diversity & Inclusion McMullen-Connally Faculty Center Navigate/Student Success Collaborative (SSC) Report It Sexual and Interpersonal Misconduct/Title IX Spiritual Life Student Life Center (SLC) Student Union (SUB, BDSC) The Facts about the Sexual Assault Crisis at Baylor Unified Advising System Wallpaper Complete List of Links PreviousNext News View all news FeaturedAnnouncementsAthleticsBaylor ProudNews ClipsNews from Baylor Presidential Perspective - May 26, 2022 Grief continues to fill my heart today. Like everyone in the Baylor Family, my heart broke on Tuesday as we learned about the tragic mass shooting at Robb Elementary School in Uvalde — the deadliest school shooting in Texas history. Baylor Regents Extend President Livingstone’s Contract to 2032 WACO, Texas (May 25, 2022) – At its regular May meeting, the Baylor University Board of Regents voted to extend the contract of President Linda A. Livingstone, Ph.D., to 2032 in recognition of her exemplary University and national leadership that has elevated Baylor as a preeminent Christian research university with strengths across the board in academics, research and athletics. Baylor friends remember Dr. John Cheng (BA ’91) following Laguna Woods shooting Chances are good that by now, you’ve heard the name “Dr. John Cheng.” The Southern California sports physician died Sunday after literally taking the bullet when a gunman opened fire at an Orange County church. Cheng’s actions almost certainly saved multiple lives. What you may not have heard was that Cheng was a Baylor Bear […] Baylor Religion Professor Receives Fulbright U.S. Scholar Award to South Korea WACO, Texas (May 12, 2022) – Baylor University Honors College faculty member Candi K. Cann, Ph.D., associate professor of religion in the Baylor Interdisciplinary Core (BIC), has received a Fulbright U.S. Scholar Award to South Korea, a prestigious and competitive fellowship of the Department of State’s Bureau of Educational and Cultural Affairs. Carillon recital for May 2022 graduates Baylor University Carillonneur, Lynnette Geary, performs a recital on the McLane Carillon in honor of the May 2022 Graduates. Announcement of New Faculty-in-Residence for Earle Hall and Brooks Flats Campus Living & Learning, in collaboration with the Provost's Office is pleased to announce new Faculty-in-Residence beginning fall 2022! Update on federal vaccine mandate As it currently stands, Baylor must comply with President Biden’s Executive Order (EO) 14042 requiring those organizations that receive federal contracts and their employees to be fully vaccinated against COVID-19 by Jan. 18, 2022. Depending on the vaccine that you choose, you may need to obtain the first vaccination dose by Dec. 7, 2021. Baylor Returns to Normal Operations on Monday WACO, Texas (Feb. 21, 2021) - On Monday, Feb. 22, Baylor University will return to normal operations with on-campus instruction and on-campus work. Please be advised that clean-up and restoration continues in some facilities and on the grounds, so we ask for your patience and understanding while our facilities teams work to resolve any building issues caused by the winter storm. Baseball Coach Steve Rodriguez Announces Resignation WACO, Texas – Baylor Head Baseball Coach Steve Rodriguez announced today that he is stepping down from his position, after leading the Bears for seven seasons. His 197-146 record marks the third-most wins of any head coach in program history. No. 8/8 T&F: West Prelims Conclude with 10 National Entries FAYETTEVILLE, Ark. – Baylor track and field women wrapped up the NCAA West Preliminaries at the John McDonnell Field on Saturday, qualifying both relays and eight individuals to the NCAA Championships in Eugene, Ore., in two weeks. No. 8/8 T&F: Six Entries Punch Tickets to Eugene FAYETTEVILLE, Ark. – Baylor track and field men wrapped up the NCAA West Preliminaries at the John McDonnell Field on Friday, qualifying four individuals and two relays to the NCAA Championships in Oregon next month. No. 8/8 T&F Sends Two More to Eugene on Day Two of West Preliminaries FAYETTEVILLE, Ark. – Baylor track and field had 11 total student-athletes advance to the next rounds in Day Two of the NCAA West Preliminaries, with 9 to the quarterfinals and 2 with a ticket punched to Hayward Stadium in Eugene. Not ‘Can we?,’ but ‘Should we?’: Baylor grad’s company aims to center ethics in technology Improvements in technology are awesome. They make it possible for a car to drive itself. Robots can answer complex questions in a flash. They can even save lives. However, as tech evolves, it’s easy for human connections to get left behind. To combat this, Baylor grad Olivia Gambelin (BA ’17) hatched an idea. Gambelin grew […] Baylor students again circle the globe in service through Baylor Missions What bonds Baylor musicians in Scotland with business students in Zambia, or student-athletes in Louisiana with nurses in India? They’re all part of this summer’s Baylor Missions trips, which are again deploying abroad after a two-year hiatus due to COVID-19. Already, Baylor students have completed a handful of domestic summer mission trips, and soon teams […] Updates to Founders Mall and Quadrangle will more fully tell Baylor’s history On Friday, Baylor Regents approved the outline of a plan that will address many of the priorities named by the Commission on Historic Campus Representations last year — recommendations that would more fully tell the history of the university and its early leaders. Many of the details are still in development, but the concepts released […] Baylor friends remember Dr. John Cheng (BA ’91) following Laguna Woods shooting Chances are good that by now, you’ve heard the name “Dr. John Cheng.” The Southern California sports physician died Sunday after literally taking the bullet when a gunman opened fire at an Orange County church. Cheng’s actions almost certainly saved multiple lives. What you may not have heard was that Cheng was a Baylor Bear […] Baptist Standard: Falling Seed: Creating online participatory worship services March 23, 2020 Baylor theology professor Angela Gorrell, Ph.D., has designed a free guide to creating online, participatory worship services. Baylor Lariat: Baylor cancels in-person classes for both summer sessions April 2, 2020 Baylor President Linda A. Livingstone, Ph.D., announced Thursday that Baylor will continue to utilize online instruction for upcoming Minimester (May 13-June 1), Summer I (June 2-July 7) and Summer II (July 9-Aug. 12) classes. Baylor Lariat: Baylor counseling center continues with online services March 25, 2020 Baylor’s counseling center has adapted its treatments amidst the COVID-19 pandemic. With faculty and staff working from home, the counselors have begun counseling sessions via phone and WebEx, a platform for video conferences. KWBU-FM (Waco/NPR): Baylor Connections - Cheryl Gochis April 3, 2020 AUDIO: For last nine years, Baylor has been recognized as a “Great College to Work For” by the Chronicle of Higher Education. In this Baylor Connections, Cheryl Gochis, vice president of human resources and chief human resources officer, examines ways that Baylor supports faculty and staff year-round and specifically talks about the University’s response to help employees transition to remote work during the COVID-19 public health crisis. Baylor University Department of Public Safety Hosts Active Threat Training Exercise with Local Law Enforcement WACO, Texas (May 24, 2022) - On Wednesday, May 25, 2022, from 6:30 a.m. to 1 p.m., the Baylor University Department of Public Safety (BUDPS), in conjunction with the Baylor University Police Department (BUPD) and nine other local and federal law enforcement partners, will conduct a joint active threat training exercise in and around Kokernot Hall on the Baylor campus. Baylor in the News – May 15-21, 2022 WACO, Texas (May 22, 2022) – Baylor University researchers and faculty experts were featured in national and local media stories as they shared their thoughts and expertise on the Declaration of Independence as a secular or religious document, an edgy advertising campaign for a popular TV series about the life of Jesus and why Baylor students are receiving more prestigious scholarships - Fulbright, Goldwater, Churchill and more – than ever before. Baylor Regents Extend President Livingstone’s Contract to 2032 WACO, Texas (May 25, 2022) – At its regular May meeting, the Baylor University Board of Regents voted to extend the contract of President Linda A. Livingstone, Ph.D., to 2032 in recognition of her exemplary University and national leadership that has elevated Baylor as a preeminent Christian research university with strengths across the board in academics, research and athletics. Baylor Mourns Passing of Retired Music, Religion/Archaeology Faculty Members WACO, Texas (May 16, 2022) – Baylor University is mourning the recent passing of two retired faculty members, Jean Boyd, Ph.D., Emeritus Professor of Musicology in the School of Music, and Bruce C. Cresson, Ph.D., Emeritus Professor of Religion in the College of Arts & Sciences. Events View all events Featured EventsUndergraduate Academic CalendarPerforming Arts & ExhibitsAthleticsConferences & LecturesHuman ResourcesTraining & Development Aug. 19 10:00-11:00am Fall Convocation Sep. 3 Football vs. Albany Sep. 16-17 Family Weekend Sep. 17 Football vs. Texas State Oct. 1 Football vs. Oklahoma State Oct. 14 Fall Break Oct. 26-28 Baylor Symposium on Faith and Culture - Art Seeking Understanding Jun. 1 Apply for alternative loans by this date for upcoming fall/spring semesters. Most alternative loans require 4-6 weeks of processing time. You should determine your eligibility and apply prior to bills being sent to allow adequate processing time. May 16 - Jun. 2 Minimester session Jun. 2 Summer 2022 Minimester term ends/exams Jun. 7 Last day to register or add classes for Summer 2022 Session 1 Jun. 8 Last day to drop a Summer 2022 Session 1 class without a "W" Jun. 10 Last day to register or add classes for Summer 2022 Full Session Jun. 14 Last day to drop a Summer 2022 Full Session class without a "W" May 31 Men's Golf at NCAA Championship Jun. 1 Men's Golf at NCAA Championship Jun. 2 Softball at Women's College World Series Jun. 3 Baseball at NCAA Regionals Jun. 8 Track at NCAA Outdoor Championships Jun. 9 Track at NCAA Outdoor Championships Jun. 10 Track at NCAA Outdoor Championships Jun. 10-11 Continuing Education Seminar: Christian Community Development with Dr. Jimmy Dorrell Oct. 26-28 Baylor Symposium on Faith and Culture - Art Seeking Understanding Jun. 14 11:00am - 12:00pm Attention to Detail: Financial finishing touches for women Jun. 14 2:00-3:00pm Demonstrating the value of responsible investing Jun. 15 2:00-3:00pm At Your Fingertips: Manage your money from wherever you are Jun. 16 11:00am - 12:00pm Help protect you, your family and your money Jun. 16 3:00-4:00pm Tomorrow in focus: Saving for your ideal retirement Jun. 14 11:00am - 12:00pm Attention to Detail: Financial finishing touches for women Jun. 14 2:00-3:00pm Demonstrating the value of responsible investing Jun. 15 2:00-3:00pm At Your Fingertips: Manage your money from wherever you are Jun. 16 11:00am - 12:00pm Help protect you, your family and your money Jun. 16 3:00-4:00pm Tomorrow in focus: Saving for your ideal retirement Links View all links Academic Progress Reports Accommodate BearWeb Canvas Chair SIS Class Roll Class Roster Verification System Diversity and Inclusion Ignite Learning Together McMullen-Connally Faculty Center Navigate/Student Success Collaborative Report It Student Employment uAchieve Unified Advising System Directory View all directory Mobile Toolbox View all mobile toolbox Athletics Baylor Proud Calendar Directory Emergency Numbers Library Map News OsoMobile Show More General Information Colleges, Schools, Libraries & Research Admissions Administration Gateways For... About Baylor Anonymous Reporting Athletics Ask Baylor Bookstore Calendar Campus Map Directory Give Light Give to Baylor Illuminate Mental Health Resources News Pro Futuris Report It Search Social Media Title IX Baylor Libraries College of Arts & Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work George W. Truett Theological Seminary Graduate School Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Louise Herrington School of Nursing Research at Baylor University Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Engineering & Computer Science School of Music More Academics Undergraduate Admissions goBAYLOR Graduate Admissions Baylor Law School Admissions Social Work Graduate Programs George W. Truett Theological Seminary Admissions Online Graduate Professional Education Virtual Tour Visit Campus Annual Fire Safety and Security Notice Athletics Human Resources Marketing and Communications Office of General Counsel Office of the President Office of the Provost Operations, Finance & Administration Senior Administration Student Life University Advancement Baylor Alumni Faculty & Staff Online Graduate Professional Education Parents Prospective Faculty & Staff Prospective Students Students Copyright © Baylor® University. All rights reserved. Legal Disclosures. Baylor University • Waco, Texas 76798 • 1-800-229-5678 About Baylor Academics Baylor University Press College of Arts & Sciences Commencement Diana R. Garland School of Social Work Exam Schedule George W. Truett Theological Seminary Graduate School Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Libraries Louise Herrington School of Nursing More Academics Music, School of Office of the Provost Office of the Registrar Professional Education Research Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Engineering & Computer Science Administration Administrative Departments Faculty Senate Institutional Effectiveness Office of the President Office of the Provost Organizational Chart Senior Administration Staff Council Facilities and Campus Services Baylor Bookstore Catering Services Copying Services Dining Services Facility Services Institutional Events Mail Services Parking & Transportation Submit Work Order University Sustainability Zipcar Finance Accounts Payable Ignite Ignite Information & Training KLX Payroll Office Purchasing Card Student Financial Services Travel & Expense Human Resources About HR BAYLORplus Benefits Compensation Employee Relations Employment Employment Laws Faculty Ombudsperson ID Card Ignite Ignite Information & Training Information Release Keep Working (Return to Campus) Learn & Grow Retirement Student Employment Tuition Benefits News & Information Baylor Magazine Baylor News Online Baylor Proud Institutional Research KWBU FM Lariat Newspaper Media and Public Relations Online Tools Academic Administrative Resource Center Academic Progress Reports Accommodate Alumni Search Banner 8 Baylor Box Service Bearweb Canvas ChairSIS ClassRoll Course Action System Course Evaluations Faculty Directory Ignite Ignite Information & Training Navigate/Student Success Collaborative (SSC) Online Directory Schedule of Classes uAchieve Unified Advising System Policies & Manuals Academic Integrity and Honor Code Brand Guide Contract Review and Approval Process EthicsPoint: Anonymous Reporting Export Compliance Faculty Handbook Federal Compliance & Student Consumer Information Financial and Procurement Services Policies Information Systems Policies & Procedures PCI Compliance Personnel Policies Report It Sexual and Interpersonal Misconduct/Title IX Student Conduct Administration Trademark & DMCA Information Travel and Entertainment Guidelines & Policies University Compliance and Risk Services Safety & Security Clery Act Coronavirus (COVID-19) Information Department of Public Safety Environmental Health & Safety Report It Sexual and Interpersonal Misconduct/Title IX University Compliance and Risk Services Technology Activate Bear ID/Change Password E-mail/Outlook Web Access Help Desk HelpDesk+ Information Technology Services ITS - Self Service Help Learning Together LinkedIn Learning with Lynda.com Content Technology for Faculty Technology Purchasing Training & Development Academy for Teaching and Learning Faculty Development STEPP Program Technology Seminars/Training Quick Links Accommodate Baylor Athletics Baylor Round Table Campus Map Diversity & Inclusion McMullen-Connally Faculty Center Navigate/Student Success Collaborative (SSC) Report It Sexual and Interpersonal Misconduct/Title IX Spiritual Life Student Life Center (SLC) Student Union (SUB, BDSC) The Facts about the Sexual Assault Crisis at Baylor Unified Advising System Wallpaper Complete List of Links