Association of Jesuit Colleges and Universities About Jesuit Colleges and Universities Mission and History of AJCU Board of Directors AJCU Staff AJCU Conferences Global Collaboration Mission Mission Programs Ignatian Colleagues Program AJCU Leadership Institute AJCU Trustee Forum Jesuit Organizations Mission Priority Examen Eyes to See Campus Ministry Links Solidarity with Migrants and Refugees - Emerging Practices Government Relations AJCU Government Relations Network Policy Corner Jesuit Alumni in Congress DACA Resources Nicaragua Resources Communications Press Releases & Newsletter Sign-up Covid-19 Updates Racial Justice Resources & Event Calendar Connections: The Online Magazine of AJCU National Jesuit Alumni Events #JesuitEducated Jesuit Basketball Spotlight Services Job Bank AJCU Directory Publications FACHEX Faculty Teaching Commons Migration Research Directory About/ Jesuit Colleges and Universities Mission and History of AJCU Board of Directors AJCU Staff AJCU Conferences Global Collaboration Mission/ Mission Programs Ignatian Colleagues Program AJCU Leadership Institute AJCU Trustee Forum Jesuit Organizations Mission Priority Examen Eyes to See Campus Ministry Links Solidarity with Migrants and Refugees - Emerging Practices Government Relations/ AJCU Government Relations Network Policy Corner Jesuit Alumni in Congress DACA Resources Nicaragua Resources Communications/ Press Releases & Newsletter Sign-up Covid-19 Updates Racial Justice Resources & Event Calendar Connections: The Online Magazine of AJCU National Jesuit Alumni Events #JesuitEducated Jesuit Basketball Spotlight Services/ Job Bank AJCU Directory Publications FACHEX Faculty Teaching Commons Migration Research Directory Jesuit Schools Celebrate Class of 2022 About/ Jesuit Colleges and Universities Mission and History of AJCU Board of Directors AJCU Staff AJCU Conferences Global Collaboration Mission/ Mission Programs Ignatian Colleagues Program AJCU Leadership Institute AJCU Trustee Forum Jesuit Organizations Mission Priority Examen Eyes to See Campus Ministry Links Solidarity with Migrants and Refugees - Emerging Practices Government Relations/ AJCU Government Relations Network Policy Corner Jesuit Alumni in Congress DACA Resources Nicaragua Resources Communications/ Press Releases & Newsletter Sign-up Covid-19 Updates Racial Justice Resources & Event Calendar Connections: The Online Magazine of AJCU National Jesuit Alumni Events #JesuitEducated Jesuit Basketball Spotlight Services/ Job Bank AJCU Directory Publications FACHEX Faculty Teaching Commons Migration Research Directory It’s that time of year again! Jesuit colleges and universities are holding commencement ceremonies for the class of 2022. Click here to access a list of dates and commencement speakers, with links to more information from each school’s website. Congratulations to all of our newest #JesuitEducated graduates! #DoublePell As a member of the Double Pell Alliance, AJCU is committed to advocating for an increase to Pell Grants; learn more at doublepell.org. Ignatian Year Jesuit schools are marking the Ignatian Year: the 500th anniversary of the conversion of St. Ignatius of Loyola, founder of the Society of Jesus. Engineering for Change For students at Jesuit colleges and universities studying engineering, it’s an exciting time on our campuses; learn more in Connections. Connections: The Online Magazine for Jesuit Colleges and Universities The March 2022 issue of Connections focused on women leaders at Jesuit colleges and universities. Visit ajcunet.edu/connections to learn more. AJCU HIGHER ED NEWS AJCU Higher Ed News is a weekly e-newsletter featuring the latest news from Jesuit campuses and organizations. Subscribe to AJCU's Online Publications Sign up with your email address to receive AJCU’s weekly e-newsletter, AJCU Higher Ed News, and monthly online magazine, Connections. First Name Last Name Email Address Sign Up We respect your privacy and will not share your contact information with third parties. Thank you! Mission & Formation The distinctiveness of a Jesuit education stems from its deep-rooted history and a mission grounded in faith and intellectual rigor. Since its beginnings in 1548, when the first Jesuit institution opened its doors in Messina, Sicily, Jesuit higher education remains committed to academic excellence, service, leadership and caring for the whole person. Click here to learn more about Jesuit mission and identity through our publications, videos and links to related websites. At the request of the Superior General of the Society of Jesus, the Provincials of the U.S. Jesuit Provinces and the Presidents of AJCU member institutions have established a self-study and peer review process for reaffirming the Jesuit, Catholic mission priorities of U.S. Jesuit colleges and universities. Online materials have been created to assist with this process, known as the Mission Priority Examen (MPE) process; click here to view them online. A Commitment to Our Students Our institutions are committed to the pursuit of social justice, and teaching students how to become men and women for and with others. Click here to learn about AJCU’s Government Relations Network, which advocates for all Federal financial aid programs that are essential for providing access to higher education. 28 Institutions: 1 Shared Mission Click here to learn more. MAP DESIGNED BY JIM BURKE FOR BROPHY COLLEGE PREPARATORY (Please note: St. John’s College in Belize became a full member of AJCU in June 2020.) AJCU Conferences The Association sponsors over 30 conferences, or affinity groups, for faculty, staff and administrators at Jesuit colleges and universities across North America. The conferences provide a forum for members to exchange ideas, information and best practices; support their professional development; and present opportunities to discuss Jesuit higher education. Government Relations The AJCU Government Relations Network is the lobbying arm of the Association of Jesuit Colleges and Universities, and advocates extensively for U.S. Jesuit colleges and universities. #JesuitEducated For nearly 500 years, millions of people across the world have experienced the transformative power of a Jesuit education. From serving in Congress to serving in the Jesuit Volunteer Corps; running laboratories to competing in the Olympics; leading countries to leading the Catholic Church, graduates of Jesuit institutions go on to do amazing things. One Dupont Circle, NW Suite 405 Washington, DC 20036 Phone: (202) 862-9893 E-mail: info@ajcunet.edu