Skip to main content University of Pennsylvania School of Arts & Sciences College of Arts & Sciences Graduate Division College of Liberal and Professional Studies Department of Biology Department of Biology Toggle navigation Main navigation Home Welcome from the chair DEI Initatives Contact Us People Standing Faculty Adjunct Faculty Associated Instructors Retired/Emeritus Faculty Graduate Students Postdocs Staff Academics Course Catalog Undergraduate Studies Graduate Studies Research Ecology and Biodiversity Evolution Plant Biology Microbiology Neurobiology, Behavior, and Physiology Cell and Developmental Biology Genetics, Epigenetics, and Genomics Computational Biology Outreach & DEI Initiatives DEI Initiatives Professional Development for Teachers Penn LENS PennBio Chats! Spark Philadelphia Science Education Academy Palms Solutions Serendip Studio PennBio Portrait Gallery Events Upcoming Events Department of Biology Seminars Past Events EES Seminars PennVet Parasitology Seminar Psychology Dept Seminars mindCore Seminars Resources Academic Office Business Office Computing Office Biology Greenhouses Kaskey Park Facilities For Students For Visiting Scholars & Post-docs Penn Cultural Centers Search Home Escherichia coli Escherichia coli cells with fluorescently labeled chromosomal loci. Porphyrogenes peterwegii Pupa of the butterfly Porphyrogenes peterwegii "peering" out of its leafy nest with false eyes, which in turn mimic the eyes of a snake, thereby protecting the pupa from small feather-brained birds. Malaria parasites Malaria parasites (and their kin) can be viewed as minimal eukaryotes, harboring a nucleus (yellow), a secretory pathway the Golgi (purple) and specialized ‘rhotpry’ organelle (black), and two endosymbiotic organelles, the mitochondrion (red) and apicoplast (green). Telomeres Giant ‘polytene’ chromosomes (white) from a fruit fly with a fluorescent probe (red) that hybridizes to a telomere-restricted DNA repeat. Larix siberica Siberian Larch, taken at our field site near Lake Khovsgol in north-central Mongolia. We are analyzing tree-ring width and stable isotopes of the tree rings to reconstruct climate, and Larch responses to climate change, over the past century as the temperature in Mongolia has risen. Biology is fundamental to our changing world. The 21st century challenge for our students, our scholars, and the greater society is to understand our place in this changing world and to create fundamental knowledge for informed policies, economies, and social structure. Read more from our chair here > Upcoming Events No events of this type to display right now. News Mecky Pohlschröder awarded the Dean’s Award for Mentorship of Undergraduate Research May. 6, 2022Read More Aman Husbands Named Blutt Presidential Assistant Professor Feb. 1, 2022Read More National Academy of Medicine Welcomes Biology's Sarah A. Tishkoff Oct. 19, 2021Read More NIH supports 106 grants featuring high-risk, high-reward research Oct. 5, 2021Read More Penn Medicine and Wistar Awarded $11.7 Million Melanoma Research Grant from the National Cancer Institute Sep. 22, 2021Read More NSF-funded RCN-UBE workshop on the Yeast ORFan Gene Project Aug. 11, 2021Read More Dr. Larry Rome on Innovation Nation May. 26, 2021Read More Dr. Mecky Pohlschröder honored as a 2021 Penn Fellow May. 25, 2021Read More Dr. Yun Ding named 2021 Searle Scholar May. 20, 2021Read More Congratulations Class of 2021! May. 17, 2021Read More Highlights Genomic differences selected through evolution may offer clues as to why COVID-19 outcomes vary widely A team from the University of Pennsylvania analyzed genomic data from global populations, including thousands of ethnically diverse Africans, to identify genetic variants that may be associated with clinical COVID-19 outcomes. With plants as a model, studying the ‘complexity and reproducibility’ of developmental biology In his first year at Penn, biologist Aman Husbands is busy working on projects to illuminate the molecular mechanisms that govern plant development. The changing face of portraiture at Penn Efforts around campus aim to diversify those honored in portraits and rethink how to approach representation through art. Rapid adaptation in fruit flies New findings from School of Arts & Sciences biologists show that evolution—normally considered to be a gradual process—can occur in a matter of weeks in fruit flies in response to natural environmental change. Context-dependent behavior can make cooperation flourish Recent studies led by School of Arts & Sciences’ researchers show that changing social strategies between settings—for example, cooperating at home but not at work—can in fact lead to more cooperative behavior in a society. Resources PennBio Wiki Contact Us Department of Biology 102 Leidy Laboratories 433 S University Ave University of Pennsylvania Philadelphia, PA 19104-4544 P: (215) 898-7121 F: (215) 898-8780 Junhyong Kim Department Chair Brian Gregory Graduate Chair Paul Schmidt Undergraduate Chair Kim Gallagher Associate Chair College of Arts & Sciences Graduate Division College of Liberal & Professional Studies © 2022 The Trustees of the University of Pennsylvania Penn Weblogin