Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Health Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Our Services Appointments Health Topics Events Forms and Guidelines Our Organization News See All Services What's Open Now Patient Resources Quarantine and Isolation Support Coping Tools Immunization Compliance Top Services Birth Control Education Individual Counseling Primary Care Register with Disability Services Sexual Assault: Get Support STI Testing Support Groups Travel Medicine Urgent Medical Concerns Workshops and Trainings Cost of Service Overview Make an Appointment Same Day Service Emergency and After-hours Support Alcohol Body Image Concerns Marijuana Disabilities Other Drugs HIV Insurance Men's Health Mental Health and Well-Being Anxiety Depression Stress Nutrition Physical Activity Relationships Overview Academic Relationships Friendships Roommates Sexual and Reproductive Health Sleep Transgender and Gender Expansive Health Violence Prevention Prevention Consent What Is Sexual Assault? Supporting a Survivor What Is Relationship Abuse? Stalking What Is Sexual Harassment? Bystander Intervention-Step UP! Women's Health See All Events Sexual Assault Awareness Month Columbia Health Flu Season Information Virtual Naloxone Training About Columbia Health Who We Are Who We Serve Confidentiality, Patient Rights, & Patient Responsibilities Operating Philosophy Video Library Your Feedback Staff Directory Health Units Alice! Health Promotion Counseling and Psychological Services Disability Services Gay Health Advocacy Project (GHAP) Insurance Office Medical Services Sexual Violence Response Columbia Health You are here: Home All Services Peace and Presence Peace and Presence Peace and Presence is a Columbia Health SVR mindfulness series of diverse holistic wellness workshops for students. These sessions will explore non-verbal and experiential healing techniques, self-calming tools, and guide participants in incorporating mindfulness into one's daily life.   Participate in a Peace and Presence workshop Upcoming Events Peace and Presence is an initiative that introduces diverse holistic wellness tools and techniques for survivors of trauma to experience and adapt to their own wellness needs. The program envisions a space where participants feel held, understood without having to explain themselves, and given space to breathe and connect in profoundly spiritual and experiential ways. Through its multi-faceted approach to mindfulness, movement, and nurturing of one’s body, this program hopes to aid survivors to recognize and cherish their innate capacity to transcend trauma while being connected to a caring community of allies. On Demand Below are pre-recorded videos of Peace and Presence programs. Trauma-Informed and Restorative Yoga Through an invitational and gentle series of yoga exercises with research-backed benefits to survivors of various traumas, participants explore the resilience of their bodies, experiencing ways to reinhabit their bodies safely, calm their minds, experience emotions directly, and begin to feel a sense of strength and control. Video: Peace and Presence: Trauma-Informed and Restorative Yoga Video: Peace and Presence: Trauma-Informed and Restorative Yoga Drawing and Language Poetry, music, body awareness, and expressive ideas will be brought into the workshop, as points of inspiration and reliable healing properties, which one can call upon for ongoing healing. For this workshop, we invite participants to gather paper and anything else they would like to draw with before class (i.e. pens, pencils, markers, crayons, or paint). Video: Peace and Presence: Drawing and Language Trauma-Informed Poetry Writing Working within trauma-informed prompts, this poetry workshop creates a safe space that starts with grounding, and connecting to participants with a brief discussion of poetic possibility, and is followed by prompts that are put in a specified amount of time for participants to write. Music is provided during writing phases and affirming connections to participants are provided throughout. A brief poetry reading would complete the workshop. Video: Peace and Presence: Trauma-Informed Poetry Writing Need help with weekend or late night distress? Check out our Coping Tools page for various digital services, mobile apps, and online resources outside our regular hours of operation. Our limited podcast series, Invisible and On Stage, provides an open conversation around racism-related stress, identity, and community, and the way they impact mental health. Listen now! The entire Columbia Health team, photographed in Lerner Hall. Click the image to see a larger version. Columbia Health Alice! Health Promotion Disability Services Counseling and Psychological Services Gay Health Advocacy Project (GHAP) Insurance Office Immunization Compliance Office Medical Services Sexual Violence Response All Columbia Health offices are closed on University Holidays. Annual Report Columbia Health Annual Report Stay Connected Receive important news and event info from Columbia Health Columbia Health Events Join us for workshops, panel discussions, skill-building opportunities, and other events! Accessibility Accommodations Columbia Health makes every effort to accommodate individuals with disabilities. If you require disability accommodations to attend an event sponsored by Columbia Health, or by the University, contact Disability Services at 212-854-2388 at least 10 days in advance of the event. 212-854-2284 [email protected] Health Unit Sexual Violence Response Clinical Specialty Sexual and Reproductive Health Columbia Health Administration Wallach Hall, Suite 125, Mail Code 4202, 1116 Amsterdam Avenue · New York, NY 10027 Phone 212-854-2284 Contact Us [email protected] Internal Use Only Login to Access Follow Us Facebook Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close