Skip to Main Content Search the Site Submit Site Search Start typing, then use the up and down arrows to select an option from the list give menu The University About Academics Programs Administration Admissions Centers & Institutes Patient Care Research Services Student Services & Resources Vitals Spirit Shop Resources 87th Texas Legislative Session Announcements Events Directory Campuses Catalog Human Resources Libraries Online Bookstore Safety Services Webraider Portal Give Info For... SAFE | COVID-19 Prospective Students Current Students Residents Faculty & Staff Jobs at TTUHSC Alumni & Friends Give to TTUHSC Patient Care Visitors & Community Media Research Receives Prestigious Status as Carnegie Classification® TTUHSC Research Receives Prestigious Status as Carnegie Classification® for Special Focus Four-Year Research Institution TTUHSC Names New Dean for the Jerry H. Hodge School of Pharmacy Grace Kuo, Ph.D., Pharm.D., has been named dean of the Texas Tech University Health Sciences Center (TTUHSC) Jerry H. Hodge School of Pharmacy, the university announced on Thursday, May 5. TTUHSC and Permian Strategic Partnership Announce a Major Gift TTUHSC and the PSP announced a transformative gift and a new partnership that will bring advanced care to the Permian Basin. Pause/Play Explore Schools Graduate School ofBiomedical Sciences Julia Jones Matthews School ofPopulation and Public Health SCHOOL OFHealth Professions SCHOOL OFMedicine SCHOOL OFNursing Jerry H. Hodge School ofPharmacy Search Our Programs Search Our Programs:Submit Program Search Start typing, then use the up and down arrows to select an option from the list Browse All Programs Your Patients are Waiting for You As a future doctor, nurse, pharmacist, researcher or health care professional, you seek a school with the highest caliber of instruction, a school with the widest range of academic programs and a school whose research breaks new ground. You will find all this and more at TTUHSC. Welcome to your future. Texas Tech University Health Sciences Center Officially Has a Sixth School The Julia Jones Matthews School of Population and Public Health is located on our Abilene campus with on-site programs in Lubbock and distance learning opportunities and will now also be home to TTUHSC's Department of Public Health, which offers the Master of Public Health, recently named in the nation's top-100 by the U.S. News & World Report's 2023 Best Graduate School Rankings. LEARN MORE Daily Dose Featured News More TTUHSC News Powered by Curator.io Research A culture of collaboration that drives innovative discoveries vital to our world, health and intellectual life. More Research News Announcements View All Events View All Patient Care Caring for West Texas By combining the expertise of Texas Tech Physicians with the staff and resources of the Southwest Cancer Center, patients and families gain access to the best care, close to home. Find a Physician Our health care facilities are run by the very same doctors who teach tomorrow's leading physicians, so that your provider is always at the forefront of the medical technology and patient care. SCROLL TO TOP Quick Links Sitemap Title IX Clery Annual Report Emergency Preparedness Equal Opportunity Accessibility Open Record Requests TTUHSC Energy Conservation Report Texas Tech University System Texas Tech University TTUHSC El Paso Angelo State University Midwestern State University State of Texas Website Statewide Search (T.R.A.I.L) Online Institutional Resumes Site Policies, Manuals and State Reporting Texas Homeland Security SAO Fraud Reporting DMCA Compliance Fraud and Misconduct Hotline Texas Veterans Portal Mental Health Resources Campus Carry Translate a TTUHSC Page Contact Maps & Directions Jobs at TTUHSC Contact TTUHSC Site Policies Privacy Notice Website Update Request Media Inquiries Texas Tech University Health Sciences Center 3601 4th Street, Lubbock TX 79430 T: 806.743.1000 ©2020 TTUHSC Facebook Instagram LinkedIn Twitter Youtube ©