Skip to main content Columbia University Home Search form Search Our Services Adult Programs Current Adult Learners & Teachers ESOL High School Equivalency (TASC) CUNY Assessment Test Preparation College Road Job Road CAFE Prep Student Pre-Registration Form Volunteer Registration Form Youth Programs Emergency Services Health Student Executive Board Our Supporters Support Community Impact Giving Tuesday CI Endowment Campaign Community Impact Alumni Organization (CIAO) Sharing Our Stories Benefit About Us Mission History Leadership Our Impact News & Events Contact Our Opportunities Work Study Job Opportunities Van Amson Service Fellowship Volunteering Donate Home Our Services Youth Programs One-to-One Tutoring One-to-One Tutoring Our Services Adult Programs Current Adult Learners & Teachers ESOL High School Equivalency (TASC) CUNY Assessment Test Preparation College Road Job Road CAFE Prep Student Pre-Registration Form Volunteer Registration Form Youth Programs After-hours Tutoring America Reads & Counts Artists Reaching Out Asian Youth Program Big SIBS Columbia Youth Adventurers Mentoring Youth in NYC One-to-One Tutoring Peace by PEACE Project Tutors Emergency Services Health Student Executive Board Support CI Today! Your support allows us to bring high-quality services to the Morningside Heights and Washington Heights communities. Learn More Our Programs Community Impact is made up of over 27 different groups servicing the Harlem, Morningside Heights and Washington Heights areas. Our groups partner with service organizations, social service offices, religious institutions, senior centers and schools to serve over 8,000 people each year. Learn more About One-to-One Tutoring One-to-One Tutoring provides individual academic support to elementary and middle school students who live or attend school in the neighborhoods of Morningside Heights, Washington Heights, and Harlem. The program takes place on Columbia's Morningside Campus and all of the tutors are volunteers from Columbia's undergraduate colleges. Through One-to-One, tutors help students to improve math and English skills while encouraging them to develop effective studying habits. Tutors also aim to provide their tutees with the tools required to persevere in their studies, and the ability to face challenging concepts with confidence. Tutoring sessions are one hour every Saturday morning between 10am to 2pm. FALL 2020: All tutoring during the Fall Semester will occur remotely for the safety of both students and tutors. Timing is also likely to change to accommodate the new schedules of both students and tutors. Visit our website: one2onetutoring.wordpress.com Interested in volunteering? Please email your year, school, and a brief statement of interest to [email protected]. All of our volunteers must be students at Barnard College or Columbia University. 105 Earl Hall, 2980 Broadway, New York, NY 10027 212-854-1492 | [email protected] Our Services Adult Programs Current Adult Learners & Teachers ESOL High School Equivalency (TASC) CUNY Assessment Test Preparation College Road Job Road CAFE Prep Student Pre-Registration Form Volunteer Registration Form Youth Programs After-hours Tutoring America Reads & Counts Artists Reaching Out Asian Youth Program Big SIBS Columbia Youth Adventurers Mentoring Youth in NYC One-to-One Tutoring Peace by PEACE Project Tutors Emergency Services Health Student Executive Board Our Supporters Support Community Impact Giving Tuesday CI Endowment Campaign Community Impact Alumni Organization (CIAO) Sharing Our Stories Benefit About Us Mission History Leadership Our Impact News & Events Contact Our Opportunities Work Study Job Opportunities Van Amson Service Fellowship Volunteering Donate Follow us Facebook Twitter Copyright © Copyright Community Impact at Columbia University Site by Site by Bureau for Good