COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW WSU News - All Stories For WSU News and WSU Today content older than July 2018, Search the WSU News Archive. WSU News Archive Return to WSU News Home Filter by: All students Applied Learning Faculty/Staff Fairmount College of Liberal Arts and Sciences pandemic community Alumni College of Engineering COVID-19 Research Graduate Profiles Community Engagement Innovation Campus Life Diversity/Inclusion Scholarships Talent Pipeline Innovation Campus College of Applied Studies College of Health Professions SearchDirectory Filter Search Wichita State engineering students create all-terrain wheelchair for family in need August 7, 2020 — Applied computing student Noah Sentry and biomedical engineering student Leah Fisher are part of a student team in ENGR 302. From a list provided by Samantha, Noah and Leah chose to use their skills to help Sutton, a 6-year-old with cerebral palsy. 5/05/20 Wichita State student 'breaks things' as software tester to help customers July 27, 2020 - Wichita State University student Kristen Bruce works as a software tester for Flint Hills Group, founded by Shocker alum Dave Cunningham. Over the past year, Bruce played an important role in Flint Hills Group’s work with McAlister, a fuel distributor and wholesaler in Wellington. McAlister needed to replace its software used to monitor fuel flow for billing. Bruce helped Flint Hills Group beat coming issues and move to a new system, while some of McAlister’s competition encountered problems. GoBabyGo students work through pandemic to get children moving July 22, 2020 - The Wichita State University College of Engineering sponsors GoBabyGo, an interdisciplinary program that modifies toy cars for use by children with disabilities. The COVID-19 pandemic interrupted the semester and several students returned over the past month to help finish and deliver the six cars. WSU researcher awarded $1.1 million grant to create adaptive wayfinding system July 16, 2020 — The National Science Foundation (NSF) has awarded more than $1.1 million to Dr. Vinod Namboodiri, professor of electrical engineering and computer science at Wichita State University, and his team to create a community-wide wayfinding system for people with disabilities. Wichita State grad's Ai software fights COVID-19 July 2, 2020 -- Shocker alum Arfath Mohammad is using artificial intelligence to help save lives during the COVID-19 pandemic. WSU undergrad builds organization around social-impact engineering June 16, 2020 - Carlos Gatti, a junior biomedical engineering major, is building a Wichita State University student organization that provides affordable assistive devices to people in need. The team is designing a device for a client who plays the cello and one for a client who wants help with tasks such as cooking. Grad certificate in data science created to meet industry demand June 4, 2020 — Responding to industry demand for workers with specialized skills, Wichita State is now offering a graduate certificate in computational data science. Wichita State helps produce stethoscopes for COVID-19 patients June 2, 2020 - In March when Ascension Via Christi needed stethoscopes, its usual supply chains had dried up. Wichita State University engineers, working as part of the newly formed Ad Astra Coalition, quickly established a new supply chain to address the urgent need. Meet a Shocker: Claudia Rojo, aerospace engineering graduate May 13, 2020 - Claudia Rojo graduates this spring and will begin a graduate research assistantship at the National Institute for Aviation Research while finishing her final season of outdoor track eligibility in 2021. Rojo, like all seniors in spring sports, was granted the option to extend their eligibility after the COVID-19 pandemic cancelled spring sports. In 2019, she finished second in the heptathlon in the American Athletic Conference Outdoor Championships. Wichita State's engineering graduate programs are now the highest ranked in Kansas May 13, 2020 -- In the latest U.S. News and World Report rankings of universities offering a Ph.D. in engineering, the College of Engineering at Wichita State University is again ranked in the top 100 engineering graduate programs, the only institution from the state of Kansas to make it in the top 100. Meet a Shocker: Abel Barraza, Bachelor of Engineering in mechanical engineering March 12, 2020 — Abel Barraza hasn’t shied away from challenges during his time at Wichita State University. The first-generation college student from Dodge City not only undertook a rigorous curriculum that included fluid mechanics and calculus, but he also served as president of his fraternity during his demanding senior year. Koch Innovation Challenge winners advance to national competition May 12, 2020 — Wichita State's Team Wire Pullers has advanced to the national competition in the Koch Innovation Challenge. The team — comprised of Braden Botkin, a sophomore in engineering technology; Adam Brown, a freshman in engineering; and Nicholas Ridpath, a freshman in applied computing — created a magnetic device to make pulling wires through walls easier. WSU students help Girl Scouts affected by social distancing May 11, 2020 -- Students in the Service in Learning Engineering class have found a way to help Kansas Girl Scouts earn their STEM badges from home. $2.8 million grant allows WSU to continue to lead NASA in Kansas efforts May 7, 2020 -- For the fourth consecutive time, the Wichita State College of Engineering’s NASA in Kansas program has secured a multi-year, multi-million-dollar grant. The latest four-year award is for $2.8 million. Shocker engineers create deicing device May 5, 2020 — Scraping frost from your automobile windshield before you can safely drive can be time-consuming and unpleasant, but a new device called Shiver could make it a little easier. WSU engineering students Rafael Bini Leite and Jefferson Vieira are developing a device that attaches to the windshield and has built-in sensors capable of detecting ice on the windshield, allowing motorists to clean and remove it effortlessly before it builds up. First Previous ... 3 4 5 6 7 Next Last 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©