× Please sign in You need to log in to use the bookmarking feature. Sign In Harvard Business School Sign in to Baker Library Baker Library | Bloomberg Center Search Find Services Ask Browse Databases Collections & Archives Guides Exhibits Find Books, Articles & More More Places HOLLIS Catalog Harvard Library Working Knowledge Service Type Research Curriculum Research Data Program See all... Service Audience Faculty Doctoral Students MBA Students Alumni Executive Education Staff Visiting Researchers Ask Us Ask a Question Fast Answers Policies Staff Directory How Do I... Request HBS Cases Plan A Visit Manage My Data Get Teaching Support Baker Library Databases Ask Us Special Collections Fast Answers All Services Hours Plan Your Visit Exhibits Hollis Working Knowledge HBS Home About Academic Programs Alumni Faculty & Research Baker Library Campaign Harvard Business Review Initiatives News Recruit Map / Directions Search Search Search Home Services Services for Executive Education Participants Services for Executive Education Participants Bookmark This Services for Executive Education Participants /services/services-for-executive-education-participants Services for Executive Education Participants 99 46741 Services for Executive Education Participants /services/services-for-executive-education-participants Services for Executive Education Participants 99 46741 Add My Librarian Item Filters Service Type Research Curriculum Research Data Program Publications Archives & Records Management Information Management Service Audience Faculty Doctoral Students MBA Students Alumni Executive Education Program Participants Staff Visiting Researchers Browse All Services BAKER LIBRARY VIRTUAL TOUR Take advantage of the wide range of collections and services designed to meet the academic research needs of HBS Executive Education programs. Services for HBS Executive Education Programs: Advanced Management Program (AMP) Custom & Focused Programs General Management Program (GMP) Managing Health Care Delivery (MHCD) Owner/President Management (OPM) Program for Leadership Development (PLD) Senior Executive Leadership Program (SELP) For a full list of library services for HBS Executive Education Program participants, please see below. Advanced Management Program (AMP) /services/advanced-management-program-amp Baker Library services and collections available for current participants in the Advanced Management Program (AMP). 67 48401 Advanced Management Program (AMP) /services/advanced-management-program-amp Baker Library services and collections available for current participants in the Advanced Management Program (AMP). 67 48401 Add My Librarian Item Advanced Management Program (AMP) Baker Library services and collections available for current participants in the Advanced Management Program (AMP). Consultations /services/consultations Do you want to schedule a research consultation with a Baker librarian? Find out more about how we can help. 67 36001 Consultations /services/consultations Do you want to schedule a research consultation with a Baker librarian? Find out more about how we can help. 67 36001 Add My Librarian Item Consultations Do you want to schedule a research consultation with a Baker librarian? Find out more about how we can help. Custom & Focused Programs /services/custom-focused-programs Baker Library services and collections available for current participants in HBS Custom and Focused Executive Education Programs. 67 48447 Custom & Focused Programs /services/custom-focused-programs Baker Library services and collections available for current participants in HBS Custom and Focused Executive Education Programs. 67 48447 Add My Librarian Item Custom & Focused Programs Baker Library services and collections available for current participants in HBS Custom and Focused Executive Education Programs. General Management Program (GMP) /services/general-management-program-gmp Baker Library services and collections available for current participants in the General Management Program (GMP). 67 48410 General Management Program (GMP) /services/general-management-program-gmp Baker Library services and collections available for current participants in the General Management Program (GMP). 67 48410 Add My Librarian Item General Management Program (GMP) Baker Library services and collections available for current participants in the General Management Program (GMP). HBS Working Knowledge /services/hbs-working-knowledge Staffed by a small team of experienced journalists, Harvard Business School Working Knowledge publishes accessible feature articles about faculty research (and practice) for an audience of business practitioners. We also publish brief summaries of every working paper published through HBS. Our goal: to explain the practical relevance of economic research to a non-academic audience. 67 34931 HBS Working Knowledge /services/hbs-working-knowledge Staffed by a small team of experienced journalists, Harvard Business School Working Knowledge publishes accessible feature articles about faculty research (and practice) for an audience of business practitioners. We also publish brief summaries of every working paper published through HBS. Our goal: to explain the practical relevance of economic research to a non-academic audience. 67 34931 Add My Librarian Item HBS Working Knowledge Staffed by a small team of experienced journalists, Harvard Business School Working Knowledge publishes accessible feature articles about faculty research (and practice) for an audience of business practitioners. We also publish brief summaries of every working paper published through HBS. Our goal: to explain the practical relevance of economic research to a non-academic audience. Library Tours /services/library-tours Tours are available for the HBS and Harvard communities in different formats to meet a variety of needs. We also offer tours to other visitors on a limited basis depending on the purpose of the tour and the availability of staff guides. 67 84271 Library Tours /services/library-tours Tours are available for the HBS and Harvard communities in different formats to meet a variety of needs. We also offer tours to other visitors on a limited basis depending on the purpose of the tour and the availability of staff guides. 67 84271 Add My Librarian Item Library Tours Tours are available for the HBS and Harvard communities in different formats to meet a variety of needs. We also offer tours to other visitors on a limited basis depending on the purpose of the tour and the availability of staff guides. Managing Health Care Delivery (MHCD) /services/managing-health-care-delivery-mhcd Baker Library services and collections available for current participants in the Managing Health Care Delivery Program (MHCD). 67 48426 Managing Health Care Delivery (MHCD) /services/managing-health-care-delivery-mhcd Baker Library services and collections available for current participants in the Managing Health Care Delivery Program (MHCD). 67 48426 Add My Librarian Item Managing Health Care Delivery (MHCD) Baker Library services and collections available for current participants in the Managing Health Care Delivery Program (MHCD). Owner/President Management (OPM) /services/owner-president-management-opm Baker Library services and collections available for current participants in the Owner/President Management Program (OPM). 67 48418 Owner/President Management (OPM) /services/owner-president-management-opm Baker Library services and collections available for current participants in the Owner/President Management Program (OPM). 67 48418 Add My Librarian Item Owner/President Management (OPM) Baker Library services and collections available for current participants in the Owner/President Management Program (OPM). Owner/President Management (OPM) eBaker /services/owner-president-management-opm-ebaker OPM eBaker provides access to information research that OPM participants need to analyze an industry, a company, a global region or country, and much more. 67 48459 Owner/President Management (OPM) eBaker /services/owner-president-management-opm-ebaker OPM eBaker provides access to information research that OPM participants need to analyze an industry, a company, a global region or country, and much more. 67 48459 Add My Librarian Item Owner/President Management (OPM) eBaker OPM eBaker provides access to information research that OPM participants need to analyze an industry, a company, a global region or country, and much more. Program for Leadership Development (PLD) /services/program-for-leadership-development-pld Baker Library services and collections available for current participants in the Program for Leadership Development (PLD). 67 48432 Program for Leadership Development (PLD) /services/program-for-leadership-development-pld Baker Library services and collections available for current participants in the Program for Leadership Development (PLD). 67 48432 Add My Librarian Item Program for Leadership Development (PLD) Baker Library services and collections available for current participants in the Program for Leadership Development (PLD). Research Assistance /services/research-assistance Baker Library offers access to a vast array of information resources. It also connects you to the broader resources of the Harvard University Libraries. With so many resources available, sometimes it's not easy to find and evaluate the information you need. Don't hesitate to ask for assistance. 67 48745 Research Assistance /services/research-assistance Baker Library offers access to a vast array of information resources. It also connects you to the broader resources of the Harvard University Libraries. With so many resources available, sometimes it's not easy to find and evaluate the information you need. Don't hesitate to ask for assistance. 67 48745 Add My Librarian Item Research Assistance Baker Library offers access to a vast array of information resources. It also connects you to the broader resources of the Harvard University Libraries. With so many resources available, sometimes it's not easy to find and evaluate the information you need. Don't hesitate to ask for assistance. Senior Executive Leadership Program (SELP) /services/senior-executive-leadership-program-selp Baker Library services and collections available for current participants in the Senior Executive Leadership Program (SELP). 67 48439 Senior Executive Leadership Program (SELP) /services/senior-executive-leadership-program-selp Baker Library services and collections available for current participants in the Senior Executive Leadership Program (SELP). 67 48439 Add My Librarian Item Senior Executive Leadership Program (SELP) Baker Library services and collections available for current participants in the Senior Executive Leadership Program (SELP). Workshops /services/workshops Baker Library provides workshops, presentations and information sessions for faculty, students and alumni; as well as directly to students in the classroom. Learn more about our presentations, including how to schedule one for your course or club. 67 34966 Workshops /services/workshops Baker Library provides workshops, presentations and information sessions for faculty, students and alumni; as well as directly to students in the classroom. Learn more about our presentations, including how to schedule one for your course or club. 67 34966 Add My Librarian Item Workshops Baker Library provides workshops, presentations and information sessions for faculty, students and alumni; as well as directly to students in the classroom. Learn more about our presentations, including how to schedule one for your course or club. Back to top Today's HoursAll Hours Connect with Baker Map & Contacts Know Before You Go Library Spaces Staff Directory About the Library B4B Product Catalog Books@Baker Annual Reports Harvard Business School Baker Library | Bloomberg Center Soldiers Field Boston, MA 02163 Phone: 1.617.495.6040 Email: infoservices@hbs.edu Maps and Directions Facebook Twitter YouTube LinkedIn Instagram iTunes All Social Media Jobs Trademarks Site Map Harvard University Policies Digital Accessibility Copyright © 2022 President & Fellows of Harvard College.