Skip to main content Go to site search Go to primary navigation Go to resources navigation Penn COVID-19 Response » Penn Home Toggle Site Navigation Toggle Site Search Academics More Academics Undergraduate Graduate Schools Global Initiatives Interdisciplinary Online Learning Off-campus Learning Libraries Admissions & Aid Athletics Research & Innovation More Research & Innovation Research Enterprise Research News Life at Penn More Life at Penn Arts & Culture Community Involvement More Community Involvement Penn & Philadelphia Diversity Groups & Organizations Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Safety & Security More Safety & Security Emergency Contacts Emergency Preparedness Spirituality & Religion About More About Introduction to Penn History Facts News, Media, & Communication Services Sustainability FAQ Penn’s Interim President, Wendell Pritchett Trustees & Administration Policies Toggle Site Search Resources Current Students Faculty & Staff Parents Alumni Visitors A-Z Directory Webmail Services Give to Penn Search Search Close Breadcrumb Home / Athletics & Recreation Athletics & Recreation A proud member of the Ivy League, Penn offers many unique and exciting opportunities for students, faculty, and staff to cheer on the mighty Quakers, participate in competitive team sports, and stay physically fit at state-of-the-art, world-class training centers. Penn Athletics Penn Athletics provides intercollegiate and recreational opportunities that enrich the Penn student experience, and makes athletic facilities and activities available to the entire campus community. Campus Recreation Campus Recreation offers recreational activities and facilities to the entire Penn community. Activities include yoga and fitness classes, sports clubs, intramurals, outdoor adventures, and much more. Intramural Sports The Intramural Sports program provides organized sport activities that promote participation and socialization between groups and individuals, enhance physical fitness, and foster a spirit of fair play and sportsmanship. Sport Clubs Find information on a variety of competitive, instructional, and recreational sport clubs. A sampling of these includes aikido, cricket, curling, figure skating, ping pong, and synchronized swimming. Wellness & Fitness Programs Campus Recreation offers fitness and wellness programs to meet the health and fitness goals of each member of the Penn community. Programs and services include group exercise, personal training, instructional courses, the Pilates Studio, and massage therapy. Penn Relays First held on April 21, 1895, the Penn Relay Carnival is the longest uninterrupted collegiate track meet in the country, routinely drawing more than 100,000 spectators and more than 22,000 entries each year. Penn Athletics CONTACT US Weightman Hall 235 South 33rd Street Philadelphia, PA 19104-6322 (215) 898-6151 Contact Directory Penn Recreation CONTACT US Pottruck Center 3701 Walnut St, Philadelphia, PA 19104 (215) 898-6100 Fox Fitness Center 219 South 33rd St Philadelphia, PA 19104 (215) 573-9027 Sports News Baseball history, American history May 27, 2022 Women’s rowing team revs up for first NCAA tourney May 25, 2022 Quakers ante up for postseason play May 19, 2022 Penn Athletics hires Liz Nobis as first-ever mental health professional May 18, 2022 More Sports News Facility Locations David Pottruck Health & Fitness Center Located on 37th and Walnut streets, this 120,000-square-foot facility has four floors of weight and cardio equipment, an Olympic-size pool, co-ed sauna, basketball courts, the climbing wall, golf simulator, Quaker Fuel dining area, fitness and Pilates studios, locker and shower facilities, and the Membership Services office. Robert A. Fox Fitness Center Located at Gate 2 within the Weiss Pavilion at Franklin Field on 33rd Street (between Spruce and Walnut streets), the Fox Fitness Center adds an additional 8,000 square feet of indoor recreational space. This facility features Life Fitness cardiovascular equipment and various strength equipment. Franklin Field Track Recreational walking and jogging is allowed on Franklin Field Monday through Friday from 10 a.m. to 2 p.m. To access the track, patrons must enter through the main entrance of Fox Fitness and provide a valid PennCard or affiliate card. Signage is available in the concourse to direct patrons to the track. Penn Park Penn Park is 24 acres of athletic fields and open space located to the east of Penn’s campus. It includes two synthetic turf athletic fields, the Dunning-Cohen Champions Field with a seasonal air structure and the James “Ace” Adams Field, a multi-purpose stadium, and the 12-court Hamlin Tennis Center. South Field is an informal, natural grass playing field. River Fields Athletic fields consisting of the Rhodes Soccer Stadium and Field, the Ellen Vagelos C’90 Field Hockey Field, and the Mondschein Throwing Complex. Penn Squash Center The renovation to Penn’s squash courts improved the area’s circulation and connectivity and enhanced the spectator experience by relocating columns, renovating mezzanine seating, and updating lighting and design features. Penn Ice Rink The Penn Ice Rink at the Class of 1923 Arena has been serving the University and local communities for more than 45 years. The Rink is home to collegiate hockey teams, as well as numerous youth, scholastic, and senior hockey teams throughout the Philadelphia region. Explore Life at Penn Arts & Culture Community Involvement Diversity Groups & Organizations Health & Wellness Housing & Dining Penn & Philadelphia Safety & Security Spirituality & Religion Philadelphia, PA 19104 Telephone: (215) 898-5000 Contact Us Maps Parking Navigate Alumni Athletics Diversity Health Care Libraries Online Learning Penn Global Penn's Heritage As America’s first university, Penn has a history that dates back to 1740 and shares many ties with the colonial city of Philadelphia and the birth of our nation. Our History Disclaimer Emergency Services Nondiscrimination Privacy Policy Report Accessibility Issues and Get Help Report Copyright Infringement Back To Top