Skip to main content Menu Discover Majors and Careers Admissions and Aid Campus Life Spirit and Traditions Athletics Raleigh, N.C. Apply Visit Give About NC State 101 Chancellor Rankings and Facts Think and Do Education Undergraduate Graduate Online Colleges and Departments Innovation Research Partnerships Centennial Campus Entrepreneurship Community Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Global Engagement Outreach and Extension Philanthropy and Giving Apply Visit Give Information For: Students Faculty and Staff Parents and Families Alumni NC State Resources Diversity, Equity and Inclusion NC State’s strength is its people — a diverse Wolfpack in which everyone is welcome and has every opportunity to thrive. Our Commitment In Response to the Buffalo Shootings Read the letter from Warwick Arden, executive vice chancellor and provost, and Sheri Schwab, vice provost for institutional equity and diversity. NC State values diversity, equity, inclusion and justice. As a public university — a university of the people — it’s essential that we welcome and support everyone in our community. That’s why a commitment to a stronger and more inclusive institutional culture is enshrined in our strategic plan. Diverse experiences and perspectives enrich our lives. They give students the insights required to succeed in today’s global marketplace, and they make all of us more conscientious global citizens. We expect everyone in the wider Wolfpack to champion this work and to give of their time, effort and talent to support it. Below, you can explore recent universitywide initiatives, diversity programs across our colleges and divisions, messages from leadership, upcoming events and more. Institutional Equity and Diversity NC State maintains a dedicated Office for Institutional Equity and Diversity to coordinate efforts across campus. The office fosters inclusion, ensures equal opportunity, and provides resources and redress for those who need them. If you have questions about diversity and inclusion at NC State, this office is where to start. Visit the office NC State Messages May 2022 — In Response to the Buffalo Shootings November 2021 — Response to Verdict in the Ahmaud Arbery Murder Trial June 2021 — Celebrating Juneteenth Current Initiatives Our work to foster diversity and inclusion is an ongoing, proactive effort at NC State. Here are some of the key initiatives and programs in place to strengthen our university’s culture, including recent developments and institutional updates. Equity Research Symposium In 2022, researchers from across NC State’s colleges and the Graduate School are coming together to explore what equity means in research. Learn more Chancellor’s Creating Community Awards Every year, we honor the NC State people and organizations that have made exceptional contributions to diversity, equity and inclusion. Learn more Diversity Trends Institutional Strategy and Analysis at NC State maintains and reports on race and ethnicity data for students, faculty and staff across the university. See the data SEA Change NC State is one of three charter members of SEA Change, an effort to advance diversity and inclusion in the fields of science, technology, engineering, mathematics and medicine. Read more Educational Opportunities and Trainings A wealth of diversity and inclusion training is available to the NC State community in support of learning goals for all faculty and staff. See workshops and trainings Response to Student Petitions We work closely with the Coalition of Black Student Organizations to support Black students at NC State. Explore our commitments Extraordinary Opportunity A new needs-based scholarship reaffirms our commitment to extending higher education to North Carolinians of every background and economic situation. Explore the scholarship Racial Equity Summit In February 2021, we published the full report from NC State’s first Racial Equity Summit and mapped out future plans. Read the full report (PDF) UNC System Racial Equity Task Force The UNC Board of Governors has established a task force to examine the legacy of race and racism in the state’s public higher education system. Learn more Upcoming Events All Events Jun 03 Friday8:30 AM Inclusive Excellence Summer Intensive Jun 21 Tuesday11:00 AM Changing Narratives To Better Support Native American Students Jun 23 Thursday11:00 AM Changing Narratives To Better Support Native American Students Chancellor’s Creating Community Awards Submit your nominations by March 7 for the 16th annual edition of the awards. Learn more Diversity Resources and Connections NC State’s Office for Institutional Equity and Diversity offers and helps to coordinate a wealth of resources and programming across NC State. Our entire campus community is committed to making this place a safe, welcoming home for every member of the Wolfpack. Office for Institutional Equity and Diversity Contact OIED Diversity Digest newsletter Education and training Vice provost’s statements Programs and initiatives Giving to OIED Community Equal opportunity and equity Title IX Safe at NC State Diversity in the Colleges and Divisions Division of Academic and Student Affairs (DASA) Liliana Madrid Director, Diversity, Equity and Inclusion DASA Diversity College of Agriculture and Life Sciences (CALS) Alexandria Graves Director, Office of Diversity and Inclusion CALS Diversity College of Design Tameka Whitaker Assistant Dean, Student and Academic Services College of Design Diversity College of Education Joy Gaston Gayles Senior Advisor for Advancing Diversity, Equity and Inclusion College of Education Diversity College of Engineering Angelitha Daniel Director, Minority Engineering Programs Laura Bottomley Director, Women in Engineering College of Humanities and Social Sciences (CHASS) Juliana Nfah-Abbenyi Assistant Dean, Office of Diversity Joseph Johnson Student Diversity Coordinator CHASS Diversity Poole College of Management Tayah Butler Director of Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Poole College Diversity College of Natural Resources (CNR) Shaefny Grays Interim Director for Diversity and Inclusion Stacy Nelson Interim Associate Dean for Diversity and Inclusion CNR Diversity College of Sciences Jamila Simpson Assistant Dean for Academic Programs, Student Diversity and Engagement College of Sciences Diversity Wilson College of Textiles (WCOT) Delisha Smith Hinton Associate Director, Student Services WCOT Diversity College of Veterinary Medicine (CVM) Allen Cannedy Director, Diversity and Multicultural Affairs CVM Diversity Graduate School David Shafer Assistant Dean for Outreach and Diversity Graduate School Diversity Diversity Partners Across Campus Office of the Chancellor Randy Woodson Chancellor Office of the Chancellor Office of the Provost Warwick Arden Executive Vice Chancellor and Provost Office of the Provost Living and Learning Villages Chester Miller Director Living and Learning Villages Office of Global Engagement Bailian Li Vice Provost Office of Global Engagement Human Resources Timothy Danielson Associate Vice Chancellor Human Resources Athletics Boo Corrigan Director Athletics Student Ombuds Services Mike Giancola Ombuds Student Ombuds Services Faculty and Staff Ombuds Roy Baroff Ombuds Faculty and Staff Ombuds NC State Police Daniel House Chief NC State Police “We will work to ensure diverse perspectives are embraced at all levels, in all processes and through all decisions.” Explore our strategic plan Join Our Wolfpack NC State works on behalf of North Carolina and its people — all its people. Our university exists to improve lives, better the world and share the fruits of learning and discovery with everyone who needs them. If you share that mission, NC State is for you. Together, we can ensure this university reflects and sustains the communities it was built to serve. NEXT STEPS Admissions Whoever you are, wherever you’re from, we want you here — and we’ll do everything we can to help you thrive. Start your journey Jobs NC State is one of the top-rated employers in the state, and our diverse and dedicated employees do work that matters. Grow your career Home Raleigh, NC 27695 919.515.2011 Campus Map Academic Calendar Accessibility Apply Contact Copyright COVID-19 Updates Directory Emergency Information Free Speech Jobs Libraries MyPack Portal Policies Privacy Statement Resources Strategic Plan Connect With Us Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Instagram YouTube © 2022 NC State University. All rights reserved.