Skip to main content Skip to main content SMU Home Giving Giving Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. Simmons About Dean's Message Programs, Degrees, and Certifications Faculty and Staff Directory Simmons Governance Simmons School History Executive Board Simmons Luminary Award XPRIZE Honor Code Simmons Resources Travel-Study Programs Simmons Lecture Series AERA 2022 Graduation Ceremony May 2022 Paving the Way to Inclusion Conference Simmons Graduate Council Faculty and Administrative Position Openings Simmons Blogs and Social Media Hub Annette Caldwell Simmons Hall Harold Clark Simmons Hall Photo Tour Contact Us Academic Departments & Areas of Study Applied Physiology & Wellness B.S. | Applied Physiology & Sport Mgmt. Undergraduate Specializations Applied Physiology and Health Management Sport Management Sport Performance Leadership M.S. | Health Promotion Management M.S. | Sport Management Non-Degree | Wellness Dispute Resolution & Counseling M.S. | Counseling Specialties Clinical Mental Health Marriage, Couple and Family School Counseling M.A. | Dispute Resolution Non-Degree | Dispute Resolution Specialties Executive Coaching Education Policy & Leadership M.Ed. | PK-12 School Leadership M.Ed. | Higher Education Ed.D. | PK-12 School Leadership Ed.D. | Higher Education Graduate Liberal Studies MLS | Science, Arts, & Humanities DLS | Science, Arts, & Humanities Non-Degree | Science, Arts, & Humanities Ph.D. in Education Teaching & Learning B.S. | M.Ed | MBE | Ph.D. Graduate Specializations Bilingual Special Ed ESL Gifted Literacy Math STEM Urban Education Research Research A comprehensive list of Simmons research projects Faculty Research Publications & Presentations Recent research publications and presentations Center on Research & Evaluation (CORE) Offers comprehensive program evaluation services, largely in the non-profit sector, and performs education research Research in Mathematics Education Conducts research in mathematics education and disseminates findings Integrative Physiology Laboratory Investigates autonomic function and thermoregulation in healthy and clinical populations Locomotor Performance Laboratory Studies terrestrial locomotion and the relationship of muscle function to metabolic energy expenditure and performance Center for VR Learning Innovation Investigates the use of virtual, augmented and mixed reality for education and human development Youth Sports Impact Partnership SMU and the Children’s Health Andrews Institute have launched a collaboration dedicated to improving the health, activity levels, and well-being of kids. Research Resources for Simmons Faculty and Staff Technology and Education Cluster Our Faculty Community Engagement Advanced Placement Summer Institute Summer Institute for AP and Pre-AP Teachers The Budd Center Partners with community agencies to offer educational opportunities for disadvantaged children Center for Family Counseling Counseling services in Plano for individuals and families College Access Programs Programs and workshops that help students advance academically Institute for Leadership Impact Leaders in education, health and social enterprise enhance skills to lead organizations and solve real-world problems Project Connect A repository of ideas, activities and videos for educators interested in improving instruction for English Language Learners West Dallas STEM-Focused School Preparing students for the next generation of STEM jobs Alumni Search Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. Navigate Search Skip to main content Simmons About Simmons About Simmons Graduation Ceremony May 2022 Simmons COVID-19 Information Fall 2021 Important Student Information Dean's Message Faculty and Staff Directory Academic Integrity and Code of Conduct History: from 1920 Executive Board Simmons News Catalogs Giving Academic Services Simmons Strategic Plan Simmons Resources Travel-Study Programs Simmons Lecture Series AERA 2022 Simmons Luminary Award Paving the Way to Inclusion Simmons Graduate Council Faculty and Administrative Openings Simmons Governance Simmons Newsletters Simmons Blogs and Social Media XPRIZE Alumni Contact Us Academics Academics Applied Physiology and Sports Management Dispute Resolution Counseling Education Policy and Leadership Graduate Liberal Studies Ph.D. Teacher Education Programs & Degrees Fall 2021 Graduate Student Orientation Our Faculty Our Faculty Faculty Research Publications & Presentations Research Research Research Projects Archive 2020-21: Research Snapshot Research Resources Virtual Reality Surgery Simulator (VRSS) Integrative Physiology Laboratory CORE Locomotor Performance Laboratory Research in Mathematics Education Center for VR Learning Innovation Youth Sports Impact Partnership Faculty Research Publications and Presentations Dallas Noyce: A Community-Focused Mathematics Teacher Pipeline Technology and Education Cluster Community Engagement Community Engagement Advanced Placement Summer Institute College Access Programs The Budd Center: Involving Communities in Education Institute for Leadership Impact Center for Family Counseling Project Connect West Dallas STEM-Focused School Alumni ☰ Advanced Placement Summer Institute Simmons Community Engagement Advanced Placement Summer Institute Summer 2022 APSI® The Summer 2022 *Advanced Placement Program® SMU will be held virtually. The list of available courses can be found here. Please note that some classes are 4 days and some are 5 days. You may contact us at apsi@smu.edu if you have any questions. APSI® at SMU Southern Methodist University, in cooperation with The College Board, is pleased to offer an *Advanced Placement Program® Summer Institute in 2022. New and experienced *AP® teachers spend four days exploring the latest methods and curriculum topics in Advanced Placement Program® education. Participants conclude their Institute experience at SMU renewed in their enthusiasm for the AP Program® and equipped with new ideas and resource materials to use in their classrooms. While professional development is not required to prepare for 2022-23 AP® course updates and new classroom resources, the College Board encourages AP® teachers to take advantage of the professional development offered by the AP®. Based on survey data, teachers across the country have found AP® professional development to be extremely valuable. Teachers who do attend an AP® Summer Institute in 2022 should be able to: Understand the Course The course framework defines the scope of the course and specifies what students must know and do to be successful on the AP® Exam. Plan the Course Sequencing, pacing, and scaffolding are essential for building students’ understanding and their ability to transfer and apply knowledge and skills. Teach the Course Effective instructional strategies help students to develop a mastery of course content and skills over time. Assess Student Progress and Understanding Learning requires time, practice, and regular feedback. The Instruction You Need All of SMU's AP® Summer Institute workshops are taught by College Board endorsed master teachers. The caliber of our faculty is second to none. We offer you hands-on instruction from lead consultants with accolades like these: Siemens Award for Advanced Placement® Who's Who in the World; Who's Who Among American Teachers Ross Perot Excellence in Teaching Award Goethe Institute Trans-Atlantic Outreach Program selection College Board's Advanced Placement® Special Recognition Award Distinguished Teaching Achievement Award from the National Council of Geographic Education World Affairs Council Houston's International Educator of the Year Authors, grant recipients, table leaders, test development committee members, international presenters and educators with hundreds of years of combined experience in front of classes like yours. Many courses are supplemented by special lectures delivered by guest speakers from the SMU faculty and public and private secondary institutions. The Location You Want Week 3A and 4A classes are held at the SMU campus in Dallas. Weeks 1, 2, 3, 4 will be conducted remotely. * Advanced Placement Program® and AP® are registered trademarks of the College Board and have been used with permission. Pre-AP® is a registered trademark of the College Board, which was not involved in the development and delivery of this professional development. This workshop is not associated with official Pre-AP® program and courses. Advanced Placement Summer Institute 2022 Workshops, Registration Instructions, and Policies FAQs Testimonials Contact Us Contact Simmons Contact Us 214-768-7587 sehd@smu.edu Visit Us Annette Caldwell Simmons Hall Southern Methodist University 3101 University Boulevard Dallas, Texas 75205 Connect with Us Contact Us Maps and Directions Legal Disclosures © Southern Methodist University, PO Box 750100, Dallas, TX 75275 facebook twitter