retweet bullhorn reply info flickr tumblr vimeo reddit podcast angle-down angle-left angle-right angle-up ban hamburger book bookmark bug caret-down caret-left caret-right caret-up chain check check-circle chevron-down chevron-left chevron-right chevron-up circle circle-o clone close download-cloud code download ellipsis envelope warning external-link eye eye-slash facebook github google-plus heart heart-o home info-circle instagram linkedin lock medium minus-circle send pause-circle play-circle plus-circle question-circle quote-left quote-right rss-square search share-alt slack snapchat ticket twitter wheelchair youtube Skip to main content Division of Student Affairs MENU Header Menu Texas Union Hours WCP (formerly SAC) Hours Events Calendar Employment Search Search Texas Union Texas Union 360° Virtual Tour William C. Powers, Jr. Student Activity Center WCP Student Activity Center 360° Virtual Tour History & Sustainability Through Our Eyes Hogg Auditorium Food & Fun Food Truck Schedule Texas Union Underground Tower Tours Events + Entertainment About Us Committees Services Your Event Advertising - DigiKnow Pricing & Policies Locations & Reservations Food & Catering About Us Board of Directors Employment Support Our Students University Unions 360° Virtual Tours Breadcrumb Home William C. Powers, Jr. Student Activity Center (WCP) William C. Powers, Jr. Student Activity Center (WCP) Building Hours Summer 2022 May 23rd - August 21st Fall Term 2022 August 22nd - December 31st Spring Term 2023 January 1st - May 31st Monopoly, Risk, and Scrabble, Oh My! The WCP is pleased to offer a variety of board games for check-out from our Hospitality Desk on the first floor. Games are available on a first-come first-served basis, and are available during building hours, for a two-hour period. Enjoy Risk, Monopoly, Chess, Scrabble, Dominoes, and more! WCP Services Ticket Office The William C. Powers, Jr. Student Activity Center provides a Free Ticket Distribution Service for Free Events for Registered Student Organizations and university departments. Please Note: The WCP ticket office will only distribute free passes. We will not distribute passes for events that are not sponsored by the University. Please contact WCPhelp@utexas.edu for more information. Welcome to the Black Box Theater! The William C. Powers, Jr. Student Activity Center is pleased to offer our Black Box Theater for use by UT students. This experimental space offers a unique, completely pitch-dark room that can be dynamically transformed by lighting for theater, performance, art projects, music presentations, and more. More Black Box Theater Upcoming Events No events at this time. View all Events Through Our Eyes The Through Our Eyes student photography display is meant to give students an opportunity to depict various aspects of campus life through photography. Each semester, students are encouraged to submit their own photographs portraying a different theme or element of student life. Open-ended themes allow students the freedom to create unique and personal entries. Post your photo to Instagram and add #ThroughOurEyesUT in the caption. Submit your photo! History & Sustainability of the WCP Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design (LEED) is a voluntary certification program that can be applied to any building type and any building lifecycle phase. It promotes a whole-building approach to sustainability by recognizing performance in key areas. Once a parking lot at the center of campus, and now a green hub of student life, the William C. Powers, Jr. Student Activity Center achieved the LEED Gold rating on April 29, 2012. More history and sustainability Reserve your space in the William C. Powers,Jr. Student Activity Center Submit your space requests in Mazevo, our event reservation system. Visit reservation system (leaving Unions website) William C. Powers, Jr. Student Activity Center Floor Plans Click each image to download and share with your event attendees. Connect with us FacebookFind us on Facebook TwitterFind us on Twitter InstagramSee us on Instagram William C. Powers, Jr. Student Activity Center (WCP) Location: Campus Mail: WCP (formerly SAC), D7400 Street Address (maps): 2201 Speedway Address: P.O. Box 7338 Austin, Texas 78713-7338 Email: WCPhelp@utexas.edu Phone: 512-232-0818 Fax: 512-475-7121 Website: https://universityunions.utexas.edu Tweets from @utunions UT University Unions UTUnions Catch Anna Larson, the first of our Summer Series, in the Cactus Cafe! Friday, June 3 at 7:30PM. More info at… https://t.co/UDgO5iYzR4 2 days 18 hours ago ⇄ UT University Unions Retweeted UT Austin UTAustin Congratulations to the graduating class of 2022! #UTGrad22 🤘🎓🎉 https://t.co/fjK9poGV0e 1 week 2 days ago ⇄ UT University Unions Retweeted UT Austin UTAustin Lightning and strong winds are rapidly approaching the Austin area from the West. Please use caution as you depart Campus. 1 week 2 days ago ⇄ UT University Unions Retweeted Emmanuel Acho EmmanuelAcho The calm before the storm. It’s the honor of my life to honor @UTAustin’s graduating class as tonight’s commencemen… https://t.co/Li7idDo590 1 week 2 days ago ⇄ UT University Unions Retweeted UT Housing UTHousing And that’s a wrap 🤘 Thanks for letting us join y’all on your Forty Acres journeys. Keep those horns up and enjoy yo… https://t.co/QeWJUx946M 1 week 5 days ago View all UT Unions tweets The mission of the University Unions is to enhance the student experience and to enrich campus life by providing cultural, educational, social, and recreational programs as well as related goods and services to the campus community. FacebookFind us on Facebook InstagramSee us on Instagram SnapchatSee us on Snapchat TwitterFind us on Twitter Footer menu Events Calendar Tower Tours Employment Cactus Café UT Austin Home Emergency Information Site Policies Web Accessibility Policy Web Privacy Policy Adobe Reader © The University of Texas at Austin 2022