Skip to main content Submit Close Give to UH Search About Academics Admissions Campus Life Research Athletics Locations Sugar Land Katy UH Technology Bridge News & Events Giving UH Home Costs & Financial Aid Undergraduate Costs & Financial Aid Tuition & Fees Costs & Financial Aid Undergraduate Costs & Financial Aid How to Apply Tuition & Fees Tuition University Fees College Fees Course Fees Estimate Cost of Attendance Types of Aid Scholarships & Financial Aid Forms FAQs Undergraduate Admissions Financial Literacy Graduate Costs & Financial Aid Find your Financial Aid Advisor Payment Information Contact Us Tuition & Fees × Virtual appointments with Financial Aid Advisors are now available. Learn more here. Tuition and fees vary depending on your department, your residence status and the courses you're taking. Be sure to check college fees and course fees in addition to basic tuition and University fees for a full picture of what you'll pay. Additional fees, such as parking, are not included on the schedule of charges. UH Extend undergraduate students may participate in UHin4 but will not have access to the Fixed Rate Four-Year Tuition option. Students in UH Extend pay the relevant online tuition rates found here. 2020-2021 Timeline of Important Dates | 2021-2022 Timeline of Important Dates Academic Year 2022 Tuition Calculator ***This calculator is intended for estimation purposes only. Additional charges related to your specific program are not reflected. ***For purposes of this calculator, estimates for off campus/online students are presented the same. Related Links Office of Scholarships and Financial Aid Academic Calendar Waivers - College for Texans Financial Aid FAQs University of Houston Houston, Texas 77204 (713) 743-2255 A–Z Index Academic Calendar Campus Carry Policy Campus Map Career Opportunities Directory Emergency Information Get Help Human Resources Library Mental Health Resources Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Office of the President Parking Report Copyright Infringement Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness Open Records/Public Information Act Texas Veterans Portal Tuition & Fees UH System Virtual Tour ©2022 University of Houston. All rights reserved. Report a problem with this page Texas.gov Texas Homeland Security TRAIL Fraud Reporting Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Linking Notice Privacy Notice Open Records/Public Information Act Institutional Résumé Required Reports Electronic & Information Resources Accessibility Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness University Policies