COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW Details: Dental Hygiene - Entry Level Program, Major MajorDental Hygiene - Entry Level Program All Programs College of Health Professions Dental Hygiene Wichita State’s Bachelor of Science (BSDH) in dental hygiene combines quality classroom instruction with professional training in Kansas’ largest dental hygiene clinic for student education. Graduates are well prepared for advanced study—and for high-paying careers in a variety of health care settings. Learn how dental hygiene is the right fit for you. Request Info How to Apply to the Program Apply to WSU Applied learning at Wichita State At Wichita State, applied learning is everything. In fact, every degree we offer has a guaranteed applied learning or research experience built right into it equipping you with the relevant skills and experience to make you workforce ready before graduation. Learn about our innovative approach Admission to the program To be admitted into the dental hygiene program, you must: Be enrolled in, or admitted to, WSU Have completed, or have plans to complete, the prerequisite requirements the spring semester before beginning the fall program Have an overall minimum GPA of 2.75 Submit application materials by the established deadline Admission requirements Inside the Program Dental hygiene students gain real-world experience through dental hygiene clinic As a dental hygiene student you will gain valuable hands-on applied learning and clinic experience at the Delta Dental of Kansas Foundation Dental Hygiene Clinic. The clinic is open to the public and offers a wide range of low-cost preventative, therapeutic and educational services. Services are provided by dental hygiene students under the direct supervision of licensed dental hygiene instructors and dentists. Students also participate in a variety of community activities, including educating local elementary schools and senior centers about good oral hygiene and volunteering at the Kansas Medical Mission of Mercy event. Curriculum The entry-level program curriculum lasts five semesters. You’ll start your coursework in your junior year after completion of all prerequisite courses and general education requirements. Once you complete the degree, you are eligible to take the appropriate examinations for licensure. WSU’s dental hygiene program is accredited by the Commission on Dental Accreditation. View the curriculum Careers A dental hygiene degree from Wichita State will help you start—or upgrade—your career in this high-paying, high-demand field. Graduates find work in research, teaching and clinical practice in a wide range of settings. Learn more about careers in this field Similar Programs Medical Laboratory Sciences Nursing - Traditional Program Physician Assistant (Master's) Public Health (Minor) Pre-Medicine 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©