COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW Admissions Section Menu Admissions Incoming Freshmen Transfer to WSU Adult Learners Graduate School International Education Online Learning Financial Aid and Scholarships Visit Us Stop Video Get information about Wichita State, personalized for your career goals.Request info Applying to WSU If you're ready to build your ideal future, Wichita State has the unmatched resources, experiences and connections to make it happen. Apply today. Undergraduate Graduate Options to meet your needs Incoming freshmen Transfer students Returning adult Online learning Badges and professional development Tuition and financial aid You can afford a quality Wichita State education. By combining competitive tuition rates with awards of more than $100 million in scholarships and financial aid every year, WSU offers students a real value. Tuition and Cost Estimator Financial Aid Scholarships Oklahoma students get big discounts You can afford a quality Wichita State education. With WSU's Shocker Select and Shocker City Partnership programs, many Oklahoma students will pay in-state tuition. Combine that with awards of more than $100 million in scholarships and financial aid every year, WSU offers Oklahoma students an amazing value. Tuition and Cost Estimator Tuition Discount Programs Financial Aid Scholarships Texas students get big discounts You can afford a quality Wichita State education. With WSU's Shocker Select and Shocker City Partnership programs, many Texas students will pay in-state tuition. Combine that with awards of more than $100 million in scholarships and financial aid every year, and WSU offers Texas students an amazing value. Learn More Tuition Discount Programs Tuition and Cost Estimator Financial Aid Scholarships Where International students thrive! You can afford a quality Wichita State education. Wichita enjoys a low cost of living - much lower than U.S. cities on the coasts. Because we are a public university, the cost of attending Wichita State is often much lower than other universities. We are proud to be one of America's national universities - offering students an outstanding education at a reasonable cost. International Undergraduate Admissions Get to know the Shocker experience At Wichita State, there's more to see, do and experience than you'll ever find in the typical college town. From time-honored traditions and hundreds of annual on-campus events to a city teeming with arts and culture, Shockers can have it all. Student life Wichita: our home Simply put, life's good in Wichita. This means Shockers not only benefit from unmatched access to area employers, they also enjoy the high-quality, low-cost, amenity-rich living found in the world's Air Capital. Learn more about Wichita An education for the real world At Wichita State, every degree we offer takes your education far beyond the classroom—equipping you with practical experience you can apply to your career from day one. Choose from 200+ programs Unmatched support for First-Gen students Wichita State University has created a robust set of resources and services geared towards support and care for our first-generation students and members of our community. That commitment earned us the "First-Gen Forward Institution" designation by The Center for First-generation Student Success. F1RST-GEN Shockers website Come see us. It's one thing to read about the unmatched opportunities, resources and experiences found on Wichita State's 330-acre campus. It's another to see it for yourself. Schedule a visit Take a virtual tour Why Wichita State? Learn more about Wichita StateWSU Fast Facts 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©