Skip to main content Search: Submit Search Search Filters Search This Site Search Cornell Student & Campus Life Main Menu Toggle Search Form Staff Alumni Families Give Report an Incident Home About SCL Awards & Funding Contact Us Meet the Leadership Campus Emergency Updates Report an Incident Identity Resources Office of the Dean of Students Diversity & Equity at Cornell Asian & Asian American Center First Generation & Low Income Student Support LGBT Resource Center Multicultural Student Leadership and Empowerment Office of Spirituality and Meaning-Making Undocumented & DACA Student Support Women's Resource Center Health & Wellness Care & Crisis Services Cornell Athletics Cornell Fitness Centers Cornell Health Cornell Outdoor Education Cornell Rec and Fitness Centers Physical Education Student Disability Services Residential Life Community Centers Community Response Team Dining Housing Get Involved Campus Activities Campus Events Career Services Cornell Chimes Cornell Commitment David M. Einhorn Center for Community Engagement Intramural Sports Sorority & Fraternity Life Student Employment Student Leadership Tatkon Center for New Students Virtual Engagement Volunteer Opportunities News & Events Events News Student Stories Identity Resources Office of the Dean of Students Diversity & Equity at Cornell Asian & Asian American Center First Generation & Low Income Student Support LGBT Resource Center Multicultural Student Leadership and Empowerment Office of Spirituality and Meaning-Making About Us Cornell United Religious Work Programs and Events Resources Restorative Spaces Student Spirituality Stories Undocumented & DACA Student Support Women's Resource Center Breadcrumb Home Office of Spirituality and Meaning-Making Contact Us ADDRESS 118 Anabel Taylor Hall Ithaca, NY 14853 CONTACT p: (607) 255-4214 BUILDING HOURS (semester) Monday - Wednesday, 8am-8pm Thursday - Sunday, 8am-11pm SOCIAL Instagram Twitter The shared mission of the Office of Spirituality and Meaning-Making (OSMM) and Cornell United Religious Work (CURW) is to nurture the human spirit by inviting our students to make meaning of themselves and the world. OSMM supports all Cornell students of all religious identities, ethical backgrounds, and worldviews in discovering what they deeply believe, finding places of spiritual belonging, and growing into the people they feel called to become. OSMM also supports CURW, a multi-faith consortium of affiliated campus ministers - who offer additional spiritual support, programming, and service opportunities. CURW coordinates the programs of the major religious traditions that have a presence at Cornell. Each week during the academic year, CURW hosts Catholic masses, Hindu prayers, Jewish services (Reform, Conservative and Orthodox), Muslim prayers, and Protestant worship services in Anabel Taylor Hall and Sage Chapel. COVID-19 Update Visit Cornell’s coronavirus webpage for the most current campus updates and FAQs. During the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic, some religious services & events are happening online while other are happening in person. Please check the websites of each organization to learn more. Get Involved in OSMM There are many ways to find a place to belong at Cornell. Some students find their place through their faith, whether deepening existing beliefs or finding the opportunity to discover their spiritual self in new ways. Learn how to connect with OSMM & CURW programs here. In addition to the support and programming available directly through OSMM, there are many registered student organizations on campus under the category "religious." Search the undergraduate or graduate student organizations. What Guides Our Work? Each affiliated chaplaincy is guided by its own sacred texts as well as other covenants made with their sponsoring religious organization or denomination. OSMM is also guided by statements that convey our guiding principles. Our primary document is the University's mission statement. Other supportive documents include: Religious Accommodation Policy Cornell University has an enduring commitment to supporting religious diversity. As part of this commitment, the university will make good faith efforts to provide reasonable accommodations for religious observance for employees and students. Spirituality on campus: all about finding meaning Tom Fleischman What did Ezra Mean by Nonsectarian? Kenneth I. Clarke, Sr. Cornell Rewind: Keeping the faith in a nonsectarian way Elaine Engst and Blaine Friedlander Building Hours Anabel Taylor Hall and Sage Chapel Anabel Taylor Hall and Sage Chapel serve as the campus homes for OSMM and CURW. If you are interested in reserving space for your event, please contact Scheduling@Cornell. Spring/Fall Semesters: Monday - Wednesday 8:00am - 8:00pm Thursday - Sunday 8:00am - 11:00pm Summer/Winter Break Hours: Monday - Friday 8:00 am - 5:00 pm Saturday & Sunday 9:00 am - 5:00 pm In the summer and over breaks the building hours are reduced, please call to confirm we are open. Many things may affect the actual hours when the University is on break. News More News Wu encourages grads to embrace their stories 5/26/22 Actress, producer and writer Constance Wu displayed plenty of wisdom in her keynote address at the 2022 Convocation. Flat fee for course materials aims to increase student success 5/26/22 CAMP program allows all Cornell undergraduates to access their required course materials for a flat fee of $225. Taking a New Approach to Student Conduct at Cornell 5/10/22 The Office of Student Conduct and Community Standards (OSCCS) launched in the summer of 2021 with the goal of supporting the holistic development. Quick Links Additional Resources New Student Programs Campus Activities Resource Center Cornell Store Dining Hours Graduate Students Housing Facilities Parent Resources Scholarship & Awards Student Code of Conduct Health Counseling & Mental Health Cornell Health Mental Health at Cornell Pages For Staff Alumni Parents Give News & Events Events Bailey Hall Concerts Campus Groups Event Planning Information Space Reservation Guide University Tickets More Office of the Vice President Emergency Information Office of Student Conduct and Community Standards Report an Incident Title IX Office Cornell Land Acknowledgement Student & Campus Life 311 Day Hall Cornell University Ithaca, NY 14853 Contact Student & Campus Life Follow us on: If you have a disability and are having trouble accessing information on this website or need materials in an alternate format, contact web-accessibility@cornell.edu for assistance.