Skip to main content Skip to main navigation Student Financial Services Menu About Leadership Contact Us Search the Site Events News Billing & Payment View & Pay Bill Student Login Authorized User Login Payment Due Dates Financial Aid Refunds Authorize Access to Bill Understanding Financial Settlement Undergraduate, Graduate, and Seminary Law New Student Orientation Guide - Undergraduate New Student Orientation Guide - Graduate Online Programs Trimester Programs Quarter Programs Online MBA Master of Laws (LL.M.) Payment Plans Refunds Add/Drop Refunds Cancellation/Withdrawal Refunds Direct Deposit Title IV Credit Authorizations International Payments E-Bill System Security Financial Aid & Your Bill FAQs Resources Forms E-Bill System BearWeb Student Financial Literacy Dining Services Housing Parking Services ID Cards Center for Global Engagement Student Success Center Education Tax Benefits Form 1098-T Private College 529 Plan Loan Collections Student Loan Repayment 101 Seminar Faculty & Staff Emergency Relief Funds (CARES Act, HEERF II, ARP/HEERF III) Student Financial Services Appointments Wintermester HEOA Student Consumer Information Student Conduct Code Financial Aid Consumer Information Tuition & Costs Tuition & Fees Undergraduate Graduate Online MBA MBA, CSD, MSW Law Seminary Summer Guaranteed Tuition Option Tuition Refund Insurance 2022-2023 Tuition Cost Online Programs Meal Plans Housing Optional Fees Affordability Planner Net Price Calculator Student Financial Aid Applying for Financial Aid Cost of Attendance (COA) Types of Financial Aid Online Graduate Student Aid Scholarships Grants Work-Study Affordability Planner Maintaining Eligibility Drug Convictions and Eligibility Satisfactory Academic Progress Award Guide Over Awards Financial Aid Timeline Graduate Student Financial Aid Timeline Helpful Links Financial Aid Videos - Get Answers 24/7 Videos - Baylor Financial Aid Return of Federal Funds Types of Financial Aid - Quick Chart Financial Aid Requirements FAQs Scholarships & Loans Scholarships Loans Baylor>Student Financial Services>Resources>Loan Collections Loan Collections Our staff directs the loan collection efforts by educating and providing current and accurate information to students, former students, and parents regarding repayment obligations for the Perkins, Nursing, and Baylor Institutional loan programs while maintaining compliance with governmental regulations. University Accounting Service (UAS) University Accounting Service is a third party loan servicer Baylor University has contracted to do the billing, payment processing, and management of student loans that are payable to Baylor. These loans are the Federal Perkins, Federal Nursing, and Baylor Institutional Loans (formerly known as Baylor Revolving Loans). Any email or correspondence you receive from UAS is legitimate, and you should respond accordingly. If you ignore the instructions, it could result in the release of a transcript being delayed, or unfavorable reporting to credit bureaus on the status of your loans. If you have any questions or would like further counseling in reference to your loans that are payable to Baylor University, please contact UAS at 1-844-870-8701 or online at uasconnect.com with an email address of uasconnect@tsico.com. FERPA Form - FERPA stands for Family Education Rights Privacy Act In order for the personnel in the Loan Collections Office to speak to anyone other than yourself in reference to your loans payable to Baylor University, we will need a separate FERPA Authorization Form completed and on file in our office. This release is different from the FERPA Form you may have already submitted for other purposes such as your Baylor Student Account, Financial Aid, Advising, or Academic Records. If you would like to give the staff in the Loan Collections Office permission to speak to someone other than yourself in reference to the loans, you may obtain and submit the appropriate FERPA Form by contacting the Loan Collections Office. Exit Interview The Exit Interview is designed to inform borrowers of their rights and responsibilities for each loan. Upon leaving Baylor University, you will receive an email from UAS asking you to complete your Exit Interview for your loan(s). This is a Federal requirement and if you fail to complete your Exit Interview, requests for your transcripts may be denied until the process is finalized. You must complete an Exit Interview for each loan you have payable to Baylor University. Loan Collection Transcript Hold The Loan Collections Transcript Hold is placed on a student's account when he/she is awarded a Federal Perkins, a Federal Nursing, or a Baylor Institutional Loan, and the hold will remain on the account until the loan is paid in full. This does not mean we will not release a transcript. Find out more about requesting your Official Transcript by clicking here. The Loan Collections Transcript Hold triggers the following process each time you request a transcript: After you submit a request for an official copy of your transcript, the Office of the Registrar notifies the Loan Collections Office of the request if there is that type of hold on your student account. At that time, a staff member of the Loan Collection Office reviews your account. As long as you are in good standing with your loan accounts and have completed all of the required elements upon leaving the university, we instruct the Office of the Registrar to release your transcript. This process will take place every time you request a transcript until the loan is paid in full. Some issues that could delay the release of a transcript are as follows: Past due amounts on the account Returned mail Exit Interview not complete (if needed at the time of request) When you have made the final payment on all loans payable to Baylor University, the Loan Collection Transcript Hold will be permanently removed. Responsibilities It is your responsibility to notify the Loan Collection Office if you change your name, address, or Social Security number. You have the option to repay, interest free, all or part of your loan during any period in which repayment is not required. You may pay more than the required monthly amount in order to accelerate repayment, but you will be billed your next regularly scheduled payment. It is your responsibility to contact us prior to each payment if you cannot make that payment for any reason. It is your responsibility to send us certified proof that you are eligible for deferment or cancellation benefits according to your promissory note(s). You are responsible for all costs that Baylor University incurs in trying to collect your loan. All loan accounts payable to Baylor are reported to a National Credit Bureau. You must complete an Exit Interview when you leave Baylor (graduate, transfer, etc.). Contact Information Mailing Address: Baylor University Attn: Loan Collection Office One Bear Place #97051 Waco, TX 76798-7051 Carol Moyer, Assistant Director of Collections, (254)710-2311 Linda Harter, Collections Representative, (254)710-2311 Fax Number: (254)710-2114 Resources Forms E-Bill System BearWeb Student Financial Literacy Dining Services Housing Parking Services ID Cards Center for Global Engagement Student Success Center Education Tax Benefits Form 1098-T Private College 529 Plan Loan Collections Student Loan Repayment 101 Seminar Faculty & Staff Emergency Relief Funds (CARES Act, HEERF II, ARP/HEERF III) Student Financial Services Appointments Wintermester HEOA Student Consumer Information Student Conduct Code Financial Aid Consumer Information VERIFICATION PAY YOUR BILL CONTACT US LOCATION Limited Access to Clifton Robinson Tower Financial Aid, Student Accounts and One Stop (first floor) are open to walk-in visitors, however we encourage students to reach us via phone, contact us form or virtual office visit while a construction project occurs at the Clifton Robinson Tower. Parking is very limited. More information about how to contact us can be found here. Show More General Information Colleges, Schools, Libraries & Research Admissions Administration Gateways For... About Baylor Anonymous Reporting Athletics Ask Baylor Bookstore Calendar Campus Map Directory Give Light Give to Baylor Illuminate Mental Health Resources News Pro Futuris Report It Search Social Media Title IX Baylor Libraries College of Arts & Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work George W. Truett Theological Seminary Graduate School Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Louise Herrington School of Nursing Research at Baylor University Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Engineering & Computer Science School of Music More Academics Undergraduate Admissions goBAYLOR Graduate Admissions Baylor Law School Admissions Social Work Graduate Programs George W. Truett Theological Seminary Admissions Online Graduate Professional Education Virtual Tour Visit Campus Annual Fire Safety and Security Notice Athletics Human Resources Marketing and Communications Office of General Counsel Office of the President Office of the Provost Operations, Finance & Administration Senior Administration Student Life University Advancement Baylor Alumni Faculty & Staff Online Graduate Professional Education Parents Prospective Faculty & Staff Prospective Students Students Student Financial Services Student Financial Accounts One Bear Place #97048 Waco, TX 76798-7048 Student Financial Aid One Bear Place #97028 Waco, TX 76798-7028 Student Financial Accounts: 254.710.2311 Financial Aid: 254.710.2611 Contact Us GDPR Privacy Notice Copyright © Baylor® University. All rights reserved. Legal Disclosures. Baylor University • Waco, Texas 76798 • 1-800-229-5678 About Leadership Contact Us Search the Site Events News Billing & Payment View & Pay Bill Student Login Authorized User Login Payment Due Dates Financial Aid Refunds Authorize Access to Bill Understanding Financial Settlement Undergraduate, Graduate, and Seminary Law New Student Orientation Guide - Undergraduate New Student Orientation Guide - Graduate Online Programs Trimester Programs Quarter Programs Online MBA Master of Laws (LL.M.) Payment Plans Refunds Add/Drop Refunds Cancellation/Withdrawal Refunds Law & LL.M. Cancellation & Withdrawal Policies Direct Deposit Title IV Credit Authorizations International Payments E-Bill System Security Financial Aid & Your Bill FAQs Resources Forms E-Bill System BearWeb Student Financial Literacy Dining Services Housing Parking Services ID Cards Center for Global Engagement Student Success Center Education Tax Benefits Form 1098-T Private College 529 Plan Loan Collections Student Loan Repayment 101 Seminar Faculty & Staff Emergency Relief Funds (CARES Act, HEERF II, ARP/HEERF III) Student Financial Services Appointments Wintermester HEOA Student Consumer Information Student Conduct Code Financial Aid Consumer Information Tuition & Costs Tuition & Fees Undergraduate Graduate Online MBA MBA, CSD, MSW Law LL.M. Tuition & Fees Seminary Summer Seminary Summer Guaranteed Tuition Option Tuition Refund Insurance 2022-2023 Tuition Cost Online Programs Meal Plans Housing Optional Fees Affordability Planner Net Price Calculator Student Financial Aid Applying for Financial Aid Cost of Attendance (COA) Types of Financial Aid Online Graduate Student Aid Scholarships Departmental Scholarship Grants Work-Study Affordability Planner Maintaining Eligibility Drug Convictions and Eligibility Satisfactory Academic Progress Award Guide Over Awards Financial Aid Timeline Graduate Student Financial Aid Timeline Helpful Links Financial Aid Videos - Get Answers 24/7 Videos - Baylor Financial Aid Federal Aid, Work-Study, And Alternative Loans Financial Aid Application Process Scholarship Options International Student Aid Return of Federal Funds Types of Financial Aid - Quick Chart Financial Aid Requirements FAQs Scholarships & Loans Scholarships Loans