HOME Make a Gift Clemson Home Students Faculty/Staff Alumni Partners A-Z Index Calendar Campus Maps CU Safety Phonebook Webcams Make a Gift Toggle navigation HOME DIVISIONS Medical Services Counseling and Psychological Services (CAPS) Healthy Campus HEALTH TOPICS ADHD Alcohol and Other Drugs Antibiotics Body Image Building Social Connections Fitness Interpersonal Violence Mental Health Nutrition Social Media and Internet Use Sexual Health Sleep Spring Break Safety Stress Suicide Sustainibility Tobacco Well-being CONTACT ABOUT POLICIES & RECORDS Advance Directives Diversity Eligibility Health Fee Privacy Practice Records & Confidentiality Rights & Responsibilities Interpersonal Violence Home Relationship and Sexual Violence Counseling (CU CARES) Consent Dating/Intimate Partner Violence Sexual Violence Stalking Bystander Intervention How to Help Someone I Care About Women's Clinic Learn More About Trauma GET HELP/RESOURCES Interpersonal Violence Interpersonal violence is the intentional use of physical force or power, threatened or actual, against another person or against a group or community that results in or has a high likelihood of resulting in injury, death, psychological harm, maldevelopment or deprivation.1 Clemson University’s Non-Discrimination and Anti-Harassment Policy Clemson University is committed to an educational and work environment in which all individuals are treated with respect and dignity, free from harassment and/or discrimination. VIEW THE ENTIRE POLICY The Federal Campus Sexual Assault Victims Bill of Rights Survivors shall be notified of their options to notify law enforcement. Accuser and accused must have the same opportunity to have others present. Both parties shall be informed of the outcome of any disciplinary proceeding. Survivors shall be notified of counseling services. Survivors shall be notified of options for changing academic and living situations. The Federal Campus Sexual Assault Victims' Bill of Rights. (n.d.). Retrieved from URL CARE Network: Report a Concern While students on Clemson’s campus deal with many challenging situations every day, the CARE Network is designed to track those incidents which are deemed “critical” and/or which may indicate unusual or harmful student behavior or trends. This includes but is not limited to any arrest; any judicial incident; the death of a family member, friend, fellow student or other individual in the student’s life; any unusual, threatening or otherwise troubling behavior by the student directed towards themselves or others; any wellness issue that is of immediate or serious nature including emergency hospitalizations, life-threatening illnesses, alleged assaults, acute injuries, etc.; any critical incident or unusual behavior reported by a member of the University community that may be helpful for tracking and follow up (i.e. excessive absence in classes, excessive sleeping or changing habits, etc.); any unusual, harmful or critical situation that happens to a Clemson University student and is not listed above. Learn More About the CARE Network and CARE Reports FILE A CARE REPORT What to Do: Survivor of Sexual Assault or an Abusive Relationship 1Dahlberg LL, Krug EG. Violence: a global public health problem. In: Krug EG, Dahlberg LL, Mercy JA, Zwi AB, Lozano R, editors. World report on violence and health. Geneva (Switzerland): World Health Org; 2002. p. 1-21. CONTACT DIVISION OF STUDENT AFFAIRS 202 Sikes Hall, Clemson, SC Copyright 2020 Webmaster