Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Information For Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff Search BC.edu Links Vice Provost for Research Menu Main Nav Vice Provost for Research Vice Provost for Research Contact Back Back Close About Overview Research Facilities Animal Care Facility Clean Room Electron Microscopy Flow Cytometry BD FACSAria Cell Sorter Imaging Facility Isotope Geochemistry Magnetic Resonance Mass Spectrometry Scientific Instrumentation & Machining Services Transmission Electron Microscope X-ray Crystallography Materials Characterization Training News Contact Policies Related Links Research Policies at Boston College VPR Organization Chart (PDF) Internal Grant Opportunities Sponsored Programs Overview Coronavirus Updates BC Research Policies & Federal Regulations University Research and Projects Policy Funding Assistance Documentation & Forms Institutional Profile PeopleSoft Financials Technology Transfer Overview Invention Disclosure Guidance and Education Faculty and Staff Students Partners and Industry Documents Frequently Asked Questions Research Security, Integrity and Compliance Overview Research Security Research Integrity Research Misconduct Export Controls Research Protections Overview Policies & Procedures Forms & Templates Protocol Submission Authorization Agreements Training International Research Animal Welfare Contact Postdoctoral Affairs ResearchMatch Related Links ORP Standard Operating Procedures document Policy for the Protection of Human Research Participants IRB Committee Bylaws Human Subjects Payment Policy Gift Card Distribution Log Close Contact Directory A to Z Listing Search VPR website Search BC.edu Find pages or people Search Close Close Apply Visit Give Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close Home Research Protections ResearchMatch Research Protections Policies & Procedures Forms & Templates Protocol Submission Authorization Agreements Training International Research Animal Welfare Contact Postdoctoral Affairs ResearchMatch ResearchMatch What is ResearchMatch? ResearchMatch brings together two groups of people who are looking for one another: (1) people who are trying to find research studies, and (2) researchers who are looking for people to participate in their studies. If you are doing health-related work, ResearchMatch can give you access to a large pool of participants interested in participating in health studies. Access to ResearchMatch is granted on a study-by-study basis; that is, investigators must individually register each study. There are two levels of access available to Boston College investigators: feasibility access and recruitment access. Feasibility access gives you the ability to view aggregate data on the registry population without an IRB-approved protocol. Using this level of access, you can see if ResearchMatch has a population that would be useful for your study. To register a study for feasibility access, you must: Be affiliated with Boston College Provide your Boston College email address Create a ResearchMatch username and password Recruitment access gives you the ability to recruit volunteers through ResearchMatch. To register a study for recruitment access, you must meet the same access requirements as for feasibility access. In addition, for each study you want to recruit for, you must: Upload an electronic copy of your IRB approval letter, citing approval for the recruitment method (ResearchMatch) and the specific email language to be used Be the principal investigator (PI) or authorized to recruit for the study on behalf of the PI Frequently Asked Questions How do I sign up? If my protocol is already approved, can I add ResearchMatch to my recruitment efforts? What should contact messages look like on ResearchMatch? Who do I contact if I need help with ResearchMatch? To get started, please visit: https://www.researchmatch.org/researchers/ We HIGHLY recommend that you attend one of the researcher trainings, held on the 2nd Thursday of each month at 2 pm. Please register here. If you have an existing protocol and you’d like to add Research Match as a recruitment tool, you will need to submit an amendment to your existing application. The following rules apply to contact messages on ResearchMatch: No study team identifiers: no e-mail addresses, names of members, name of lab, name of study, address, phone number Maximum 2000 characters No embedded surveys Example Contact Message: Would you like to help researchers learn more about the causes of motor neuron diseases such as ALS and SMA? Are you interested in helping researchers who are trying to learn more about the causes of motor neuron diseases such as ALS (Lou Gehrig’s disease) and SMA? Researchers at Vanderbilt are looking for study volunteers. You may be eligible for this study if: You are 18 years or older. You are a healthy volunteer OR if a physician has determined that you have ALS, SMA or another disorder affecting the motor neuron or nerve. You are available for one visit for approximately 1 hour. You are willing to have a small biopsy of skin taken from a small spot on your leg. The skin around the spot will be numbed prior to the sample being taken. The skin biopsy procedure is a standard technique used to look at nerve fibers in the skin. For this study, the researchers will use the skin cells from the biopsy to grow a lot of skin cells (called a culture) and these will be converted to nerve cells. If you are interested in hearing more about this study, please click “yes” so that a study team member may contact you. We strongly recommend that you contact ResearchMatch directly through their contact form with any technical questions. Back To Top Back To Top Vice Provost for Research Boston College, Waul House 270 Hammond Street Chestnut Hill, MA 02467 vproffice@bc.edu 140 Commonwealth Avenue Chestnut Hill, MA 02467 Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College