Skip to main content. ADVISORY | COVID-19 Information × kumc.edu School of Health Professions School of Medicine School of Nursing University of Kansas The University of Kansas Health System The University of Kansas Cancer Center Search within this section Search all sites School of Medicine OSA Policies & Professionalism Academic Societies Resources Opportunities Staff Our Campuses Make a Gift Info for Current Students Blackboard Webmail myKUMC Prospective Students Prospective Employees Alumni Faculty & Staff Residents & Fellows Patients Donors Researchers Visitors KU School of Medicine Office of Student Affairs Our Campuses Make a Gift Info for KU School of Medicine Office of Student Affairs Policies & Professionalism Policies & Professionalism School of Medicine Policies Professionalism Honor Code Honor Council Academic Societies Resources Resources Current Student Resources Annual Events Wellness Initiatives Diversity and Inclusion Initiatives Opportunities Opportunities School of Medicine Scholarships Contests M1 Summer Opportunities Summer Research Training Program Staff OSA KU Medical Alumni Societies In 1999, the School of Medicine, in partnership with the KU Medical Alumni Society, established Academic Societies to foster a collegial learning environment through student-student, student-faculty, and faculty-faculty interactions. About Like other learning communities, the societies evolved from an intimate focus on learning, leadership development and community service to a substantial role in fostering a safe learning environment in core educational programs that promote scholarship, professional development and collegial relationships. Emphasis is on the promotion of professional behaviors, compassionate and patient-centered care, health practitioner well-being and lifelong learning. Structure There are eight societies between the Kansas City, Salina and Wichita Campuses. Each society was named for a distinguished school leader. Every matriculating class is divided into learning communities of 7-8 students. Four sets of learning communities make a society. The Salina campus is an exception in that there is just one learning community per class. Every society has a faculty director and four to eight faculty assistant directors. The campus has only two assistant directors due to class size. An individual learning community has two assistant directors assigned to it. One assistant director serves as a PBL facilitator, and the other serves as an academic coach. All assistant directors serve as both PBL facilitators and coaches. To avoid conflict of interest, a PBL facilitator for one society learning community serves as an academic coach for a separate learning community within the same society. Kansas City: Cates, Delp, Major, Murphy, Orr and Wescoe Wichita: Jager Salina: Lukert Learning Activities PBL Facilitation Society assistant directors facilitate problem-based learning (PBL) for their assigned learning community students. The activity provides an interactive, team-based educational environment for an enhanced learning experience that goes beyond the traditional large classroom model. Each session has focused content and learning objectives. The role of the facilitator is to guide the discussion, not provide significant information. Coaching Each learning community has an assigned assistant director serving in the academic coach role. Coaching is conducted one to two times per course block for 15-30 minute sessions. The academic coach meets with each of their assigned students individually. The objectives of the meeting are to monitor and review academic performance, examination performance and narrative feedback. Progress toward mastery of competencies is provided using positive and constructive feedback. Coaches have access to the student's academic dashboard and evaluative assessment data and comments. Based on individual student needs, coaches will make appropriate referrals and assist the student in accessing resources for educational and personal support and development, such as tutoring, mental health, career advising, etc. Society directors serve as academic coaches in the clinical years of the curriculum on the Salina and Kansas City campuses. School administrators and faculty alums conduct coaching in the clinical years on the Wichita campus. Student Wellness The societies promote student wellness and fostering a safe learning environment. The program aims to achieve these goals with extra-curricular society activities, required wellness workshops and coaching. Student leaders from each society plan monthly lunch meetings with a variety of programming. Topics include yoga classes and wellness presentations, humanities topics, cultural awareness discussions and faculty and student panels. Additionally, the student leaders plan off-campus programming. The required workshops typically occur once per academic year. Assistant directors and directors facilitate some of these workshops to encourage reflective discussion in a safe learning environment. Through academic coaching, assistant directors serve as extensions of student affairs. Students are referred to counseling and educational support services and other on-campus resources if needed. The societies meet once per academic block for coaching and PBL case discussions. Through information gathered at these meetings, the offices of Medical Education and Student Affairs keep a pulse on student concerns and issues within the learning environment. Faculty Allocation Model Faculty Positions (Assistant Directors and Directors) Appointments are initially for one academic year (July 1-June 30), with the expectation for annual review. Qualifications for Assistant Director and Director M.D., D.O. or equivalent medical degree. Current KU School of Medicine faculty appointment or recent faculty appointment in the case of the Wichita campus. Sustained record of success in medical education at medical student or residency level Demonstrated ability to provide effective feedback. Evidence of success in undertaking new roles and in working collegially to implement and improve innovations. Regarded as role model by learners and peers. Active faculty must participate in training activities, faculty development and case discussions. 0.1 FTE Faculty (Assistant Directors) Work with just one academic class (first or second-year students). Time Commitment: 4 hours per week for the academic year. 0.1 FTE allocated to the faculty's primary department. Report to their society director and the senior associate deans for medical education and student affairs. Evaluation: students formally evaluate their facilitator, coach and the society's program at regular intervals through surveys and/or focus groups. Feedback is provided to assistant directors at regular intervals and only when a minimum threshold of students has responded. 0.2 FTE Faculty (Assistant Directors) Work with two academic classes (first and second-year students). Time Commitment: 8 hours per week for the academic year. 0.2 FTE allocated to the faculty's primary department. Report to their society director and the senior associate deans for medical education and student affairs. Evaluation: students formally evaluate their facilitator, coach and the society's program at regular intervals through surveys and/or focus groups. Feedback is provided to assistant directors at regular intervals and only when a minimum threshold of students has responded. 0.25 FTE Faculty (Directors) Time Commitment: 10 hours per week for the academic year. 0.25 FTE allocated to the faculty's primary department. Report to the senior associate deans for medical education and student affairs. Evaluation: assistant directors formally evaluate their director. Interested Faculty Interested in applying for an assistant director position? Please email Lauren Parker if you would like to learn more. KU School of Medicine University of Kansas Medical Center KU School of Medicine Office of Student Affairs 3901 Rainbow Boulevard Kansas City, KS 66160-7303 Phone: 913-588-1483 Make a Gift 3901 Rainbow Boulevard, Kansas City, KS 66160 | 913-588-5000 About Calendar News Equal Opportunity Statement Careers Facebook opens in new tab Twitter opens in new tab YouTube opens in new tab Instagram opens in new tab LinkedIn opens in new tab © 2022 The University of Kansas prohibits discrimination on the basis of race, color, ethnicity, religion, sex, national origin, age, ancestry, disability, status as a veteran, sexual orientation, marital status, parental status, gender identity, gender expression, and genetic information in the university's programs and activities. Retaliation is also prohibited by university policy. Inquiries regarding our non-discrimination policies should be directed to the Director for the Equal Opportunity & Academic Compliance Office, Mail Stop 7004, 4330 Shawnee Mission Parkway, Fairway, KS 66205, 913-588-5964, 711 TTY (for the Wichita, Salina, and Kansas City, Kansas medical center campuses). Inquiries regarding the University Sexual Harassment Policy should be directed to the Title IX Coordinator at 913-588-8011. Free Expression Statement | Privacy Statement | Notice of Privacy Practices | Consumer Information We use cookies to analyze our traffic & provide social media features. Visit the KU Medical Center Privacy Statement for more information. By closing this window & browsing this site, you agree to our use of cookies.