Skip to main content Information For: Current Students Alumni Harvard Undergraduates Educators Recruiters Media Apply Give to HGSE Search Apply for Degree Programs Apply for Professional Education Donate Give back to HGSE and support the next generation of passionate educators and innovative leaders. Keywords Close Menu Degree Programs Professional Education Faculty & Research Usable Knowledge Keywords About HGSE About the Dean Dean's Welcome Messages from the Dean Commentary and Media Dean's Office History of HGSE Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Our Impact Campus and Facilities Office Directory Virtual Tour Gutman Conference Center Reservation Request Form Capacities and Cost Floor Plan Catering Policies Audio Visual Directions, Parking, and Hotels Map of HGSE Directions to HGSE History of HGSE Buildings Faculty & Staff Directory Work at HGSE Title IX Information Doctoral Degree Programs Doctor of Education Leadership Doctor of Philosophy in Education Brochures Academic Calendar Academic Catalog Doctoral Viewbook Master's Degree Program Master's in Education Programs Education Leadership, Organizations, and Entrepreneurship Education Policy and Analysis Human Development and Education Learning Design, Innovation, and Technology Teaching and Teacher Leadership Concentrations Arts and Learning Early Childhood Global, International, and Comparative Education Higher Education Identity, Power, and Justice in Education Literacy and Languages A Personalized Approach Online Master's in Education Leadership Foundations Brochures Academic Catalog Academic Calendar Academic Year 2020-22 Programs Professional Education About Us Programs Early Childhood K-12 Higher Education Online Programs For Organizations Group and Team Enrollment Custom Programs Admissions Payment & Tuition Assistance Refunds & Withdrawals Policies and Accessibility Campus Experience On-Campus Program Health and Safety Policies FAQs Events Contact Faculty & Research Faculty Directory Centers, Projects and Initiatives Faculty Recruitment Faculty Experts Admissions Introduce Yourself Explore Find the Right Program Brochures Life at HGSE Connect Apply Refer a Candidate Frequently Asked Questions Financial Aid HGSE & Harvard University Consumer Information Tuition & Costs Applying for Aid Incoming Students Incoming International Students Continuing Students Scholarships, Fellowships & Grants Need-Based Grant Awards HGSE Fellowships Additional Fellowships External Fellowships Student Loans Student Work International Students International Applicant FAQ Funding Sources Students with Families Financial Aid Appeals Presentations & Publications Budgeting & Financial Literacy Budget Calculator Registrar News & Events Harvard Edcast Education Now Askwith Education Forum Upcoming Events Submit an Event Usable Knowledge Ed. Magazine Harvard Education Publishing Group Information for Media Education Now Usable Knowledge Usable Knowledge Harvard EdCast Ed. Magazine HGSE Centennial Community Learning Beyond the Classroom Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Organizations and Initiatives Community Events and Action Resources Teaching and Learning Gutman Library Services Alumni Services Collections Special Collections Request for Library Purchase Library Hours Websites for Educators About the Library Facilities & Equipment Contact Information Coronavirus Response Information Directory Calendar Alumni Network & Connect Get Involved Learn & Grow Benefits & Services my.harvard Student Handbook Introduction Welcome to HGSE Preface Commitment to Diversity Part 1: Enrollment Policies Academic Programs and Affiliations Registration and Enrollment Policies Tuition and Fees Financial Aid Student Health Insurance Grading Part 2: Student Supports Advising HGSE Supports University Supports Campus Safety and Security Part 3: Program Policies Academic Governance Doctor of Education (Ed.D.) Program Policies Doctor of Philosophy in Education (Ph.D.) Program Policies Doctor of Education Leadership (Ed.L.D.) Program Policies Master of Education (Ed.M.) Program Policies Part 4: Academic Integrity and Standards of Conduct Resolution on Rights and Responsibilities Academic Standards and Integrity Standards of Conduct in the Harvard Community Committee on Rights and Responsibilities Policies on Harassment and Discrimination Policy on Consensual Romantic Relationships Policy on Physical Violence Policy on Misrepresentation of Status Policy on Illicit Substances Policy on Hazing Policy on Threats Part 5: Copyright and Publishing Policies Copyright Disclosure Use of the Harvard Name Information For Current Students Alumni Harvard Undergraduates Educators Recruiters Media Connect with HGSE Facebook Twitter Linked In LinkedIn Symbols Created with Sketch. Instagram Master's Degree Program Program: Learning Design, Innovation, and Technology In our Learning Design, Innovation, and Technology (LDIT) Program, you will tackle promising and challenging frontiers of education — innovating education technology, leveraging the science of learning, and developing powerful pedagogies to improve learning outcomes. You will experience a diverse, inclusive, and high-energy environment, while learning from leading HGSE faculty, top industry practitioners, as well as your fellow cohort members. Our LDIT Program will equip you to work in education technology or curriculum development, creating new learning materials and experiences for preK–12 schools, colleges and universities, workplaces, and informal settings. "So much of young people’s learning today takes place out of school, and it impacts how we need to design learning experiences. With this program, we will study the evolution and science of learning — exploring the impact of technological innovations, identifying ways these tools can help us improve learning designs, and making progress toward generating better student outcomes." Joe Blatt, Faculty Co-Chair After completing the LDIT Program, you will have gained a deeper understanding of core competencies that explore how to: Envision, design, and deliver learning experiences Determine the aims, specifications, and scope of design work Evaluate, document, and improve learning designs Initiate and manage successful design projects Curriculum Information The LDIT Program is designed to help you gain the knowledge and practice the skills essential to designing and implementing learning experiences. A minimum of 42 credits are required to graduate with an Ed.M. degree from HGSE. The main elements of the 2022–23 academic year curriculum are: The Foundations courses (14 credits) are How People Learn, Leading Change, Evidence, and Equity and Opportunity, in which students gain core skills central to the profession of education. This program commences with How People Learn, an immersive online course that runs June–July and requires a time commitment of 10-15 hours per week. You will continue Foundations with Leading Change, Evidence, and Equity and Opportunity on campus in August. The final component of Foundations is an Equity and Opportunity elective, which will take place during terms when electives are available. To fulfill the program requirement, you must take a minimum of 12 credits specific to LDIT, including the following: The LDIT Program Core Experience (4 credits), in this fall course, you will explore how to design learning across a wide variety of settings, from classrooms to conferences and online networks, in architecture, media, and emerging technologies. You will engage with outstanding design practitioners who are using design theory and strategies to make learning more appealing and more successful in a wide variety of settings. Across these different domains, faculty will highlight competencies that are critical tools for learning designers. LDIT-related course work (8 credits), sample course subject matter may include deeper learning, innovation by design, learning through arts, and implementing learning technologies. The remaining credits are taken via elective coursework, which includes the opportunity to specialize in a Concentration. Explore our course catalog. Note, all information and courses are subject to change. Program Faculty Students will work closely with faculty associated with their area of study, but students can also work with and take courses with faculty throughout HGSE and Harvard. The faculty co-chairs for LDIT are Joe Blatt and Jal Mehta. View our faculty directory for a full list of HGSE faculty. Joseph Blatt Jal Mehta Candice Bocala Elizabeth Bonawitz Rhonda Bondie Karen Brennan Christopher Dede David Dockterman Tina Grotzer Meira Levinson Matthew L. Miller Christine A. Reich John Richards Bertrand Schneider Steven Seidel Eric Shed Shari Tishman Barbara Treacy Aysha Upchurch Daniel Wilson Career Pathways The LDIT Program prepares you for a variety of career pathways, including: Instructional designer Learning technologist Learning media producer Instructional coach Curriculum designer Product designer Digital-learning designer User-experience designer Learning-assessment developer Human-factors researcher Professional learning and development manager Outcomes From curriculum design to instructional approaches to classroom structure, technology has had a transformative impact on education. Our Learning Design, Innovation, and Technology Program grounds you in the science of learning and prepares you to incorporate technology into your education practice. In the profiles below, see how our technology-focused alumni have incorporated innovative practices into their learning environments: Collaborate, Lead, and Inspire: Julia Rose, LDIT'22 The Intellectual Contribution Award recipient for Learning Design, Innovation, and Technology reflects on her time at HGSE and looks toward the future. The Might of Playful Learning With an emphasis on social-emotional skills and play, master's student Maureen Bunney's edtech company aims to help young learners succeed. Cohort and Community Though LDIT, you will join a remarkable cohort of passionate educators and creative thinkers who represent diverse backgrounds, perspectives, and experience levels. Guest speakers, alumni networking, student-organized initiatives, and social events all contribute to the creation of a cohesive and supportive peer group. The LDIT community also is part of the larger HGSE family — preparing you and your cohort members with the opportunity to change the world through your impact on excellence and equity in education. Tell us about yourself so that we can tailor our communication to best fit your interests and provide you with relevant information about our programs, events, and other opportunities to connect with us. Introduce Yourself Admissions Information Learn more about our admissions application requirements and instructions, tuition and financial aid, recorded webinars, download a brochure, and find answers to frequently asked questions. Connect with Admissions If you have additional admissions-related questions, please contact Selma Abdul. Additional LDIT Resources Distinctive Features (1:04) Curriculum (0:42) Career Outcomes (2:07) Ideal Candidates (0:58) Connect with Program Staff If you have remaining program-specific questions, please contact LDIT Assistant Director Rilda Kissel. In this section Master's Degree Program Master's in Education Programs Education Leadership, Organizations, and Entrepreneurship Education Policy and Analysis Human Development and Education Learning Design, Innovation, and Technology Teaching and Teacher Leadership Concentrations Arts and Learning Early Childhood Global, International, and Comparative Education Higher Education Identity, Power, and Justice in Education Literacy and Languages A Personalized Approach Online Master's in Education Leadership Foundations Brochures Academic Catalog Academic Calendar Academic Year 2020-22 Programs Master's Degree Program Master's Degree Program Master's in Education Programs Education Leadership, Organizations, and Entrepreneurship Education Policy and Analysis Human Development and Education Learning Design, Innovation, and Technology Teaching and Teacher Leadership Concentrations Arts and Learning Early Childhood Global, International, and Comparative Education Higher Education Identity, Power, and Justice in Education Literacy and Languages A Personalized Approach Online Master's in Education Leadership Foundations Brochures Academic Catalog Academic Calendar Academic Year 2020-22 Programs Sign up for our newsletters to get the latest from the Harvard Graduate School of Education. Sign Up Now Artboard 1 13 Appian Way | Cambridge, MA 02138 Centennial Contact Us Directory Directions Harvard University ©2022 President and Fellows of Harvard College Linked In Symbols Created with Sketch. Youtube RSS Podcast HGSE Publishing Policies & Disclaimers Digital Accessibility Policy Privacy Policy Trademark Notice