Skip to main content Skip to main navigation Office of the Registrar Menu Baylor>Registrar>VA Education Benefits>Meet our VA Benefits Team Meet our VA Benefits Team Contact us: Email: VA_Benefits@Baylor.edu Phone: (254) 710-8870 Appointment Scheduling Information JESSICA ALFORD Senior VA Coordinator Jessica has been at Baylor University since March 2013. She attended Baylor University as an undergraduate and completed her Bachelor of Science in Education in 2003. Her responsibilities include certifying enrollment for veterans and/or dependents of veterans, submitting updates on enrollment certifications, assisting students in the application process for benefits and completion of eligibility requirements, and providing information to prospective and current students regarding their VA benefits. Although she is not a veteran herself, Jessica’s father served in the Air Force. Her maternal grandfather was a Korean War veteran and served in the US Navy. She also has three cousins serving in the Army whom each have completed at least two tours in Iraq. RYAN MICHALAK VA Coordinator Ryan joined Baylor University and the Office of the Registrar in May 2021 as a VA Coordinator. His duties include certifying enrollment for veterans and/or dependents of veterans, assisting students in the VA benefit application process, and providing information to students regarding their VA benefits. Ryan comes from an extensive military family; his father, a Vietnam Veteran, and paternal grandfather, WWII & Vietnam Veteran, both served in the Air Force. Ryan's maternal grandfather, a "Mustang" officer, served during the Korean War and also earned a Bronze Star during one of his tours in Vietnam. Ryan also has an uncle and a cousin who served in the Marine Corps, two uncles who served in the Army, and one uncle who served in the Coast Guard. CINDY PALMER VA Coordinator Cindy has been with Baylor since October 2017 serving as a Financial Aid Counselor in the Student Financial Aid Office and joined the Office of the Registrar in June 2021 as a VA Coordinator. She is a graduate of Southwestern Assemblies of God University with a Bachelor of Science in Counseling. Her responsibilities include certifying enrollment for veterans and/or dependents of veterans, submitting updates on enrollment certifications, assisting students in the application process for benefits and completion of eligibility requirements, and providing information to prospective and current students regarding their VA benefits. Although Cindy is not a veteran, her family has a long and proud history of military service. Her parents met while both were serving in the Army, and Cindy along with 2 older brothers were born in France while her parents were stationed there. Cindy’s father-in-law served as a Navy Dive Bomber Pilot during WWII. She has several other family members who have served previously or are on active duty including her youngest brother, several uncles, cousins, nephews and great-niece. DEBBI PARKER Compliance & Certification Coordinator Debbi joined the Office of the Registrar in February 2019 as the Compliance and Certification Coordinator. She is a graduate of Baylor University with a B.B.A. in Human Resources Management. Debbi’s primary role is to certify enrollment and changes to enrollment for veteran students and dependents of veterans. She also assists students with the process of applying for VA benefits. Prior to joining the Office of the Registrar, Debbi worked in local public health and as a special education teacher. While Debbi is not a veteran, she comes from a family with a long history of military service. Debbi’s husband, Phillip, served in the Marine Corps. Debbi’s father was a Vietnam veteran who retired from the Navy, and her brother is retired from the Army. She also has a nephew who joined the Army upon his high school graduation in 2011, and he is currently serving. Due to her immense respect for those who serve in our military, Debbi enjoys assisting veterans and their family members here at Baylor. KYLE YATES Associate Registrar Kyle has been at Baylor since July 2015, where he joined the staff as an Assistant Registrar. He moved into the role of an Associate Registrar in September 2019, where he provides shared leadership responsibility for the Office of the Registrar and oversight of the operational components of the office related to academic records and compliance. This includes academic actions, athletics eligibility, curriculum and other program setup, degree audit systems, degree clearance and conferral, grades, National Student Clearinghouse reporting, transfer credit, VA educational benefits, and University Withdrawals. He holds a Master of Business Administration from Texas Christian University and a Bachelor of Science in Kinesiology from Texas A&M University. Previously, he served as an Associate Athletics Director for Compliance at Missouri State University and also worked in the Athletics Department at Texas Christian University. D'MARCUS LEACH Student Worker ANGEL OLATUNJI Student Worker ELISE SALMANS Student Worker Registrar Dates and Deadlines Registering for Classes Steps for Registration Registration + Planning Instructional Videos View Class Schedule in BearWeb Summer/Fall 2022 BearWeb Early Registration Schedule Waitlist Information Waitlist FAQs Returning Student Reactivation Returning Student Reactivation FAQs Wintermester Academic Services Transcript Information Additional Information Current Student Online Ordering Former Student Online Ordering Name and Address Change Enrollment/Degree Certification Commencement Information Non-certified Commencement Participation Policy Diploma Information Diploma Distribution for Current Graduates Duplicate Diploma Orders for Alumni Duplicate Diploma Order Form Dean's Academic Honor List Degree Audits GPA Slip/Final Grades Enrollment Status Undergraduate Course Repeat Policy FAQ's - Undergraduate Course Repeat and Academic Forgiveness Policy U.Achieve Instructional Videos Schedule of Classes & Catalogs Schedule of Classes University Catalogs Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Law School Catalog Seminary Catalog Final Exam Schedule Spring 2022 Fall 2022 Transfer Credit Transfer Credit Policies Equivalent Course Tool (ECT) Search by Outside Institution Search by Baylor Course Equivalent Course Request (ECR) Transfer Credit FAQs Abroad Equivalent Course Approval VA Education Benefits Announcements Apply for VA Educational Benefits Meet our VA Benefits Team VA Benefits Contact Information Military Scholarships VA Chapter Benefits Chapter 33 John Fry Scholarship Chapter 35 Chapter 31 Chapter 30, 1606 VA Forms / Resources FAQs Ineligible Programs The Effects of Schedule Changes (Debt Info) Terminology VA COE Submission Yellow Ribbon Program Room Scheduling Faculty/Staff Resources Class Scheduling Schedule Build Timeline Development Grading Resources Class Roster Verification Electronic Catalog Implementation FERPA FERPA Policy Faculty/Staff Quick Guide Student Annual Notification FERPA Consent Form FAQs Office Information Mission Statement Staff Directory Activities and Responsibilities Organizational Chart Search the Site Show More General Information Colleges, Schools, Libraries & Research Admissions Administration Gateways For... About Baylor Anonymous Reporting Athletics Ask Baylor Bookstore Calendar Campus Map Directory Give Light Give to Baylor Illuminate Mental Health Resources News Pro Futuris Report It Search Social Media Title IX Baylor Libraries College of Arts & Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work George W. Truett Theological Seminary Graduate School Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Louise Herrington School of Nursing Research at Baylor University Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Engineering & Computer Science School of Music More Academics Undergraduate Admissions goBAYLOR Graduate Admissions Baylor Law School Admissions Social Work Graduate Programs George W. Truett Theological Seminary Admissions Online Graduate Professional Education Virtual Tour Visit Campus Annual Fire Safety and Security Notice Athletics Human Resources Marketing and Communications Office of General Counsel Office of the President Office of the Provost Operations, Finance & Administration Senior Administration Student Life University Advancement Baylor Alumni Faculty & Staff Online Graduate Professional Education Parents Prospective Faculty & Staff Prospective Students Students Copyright © Baylor® University. All rights reserved. Legal Disclosures. Baylor University • Waco, Texas 76798 • 1-800-229-5678 Dates and Deadlines Registering for Classes Steps for Registration Registration + Planning Instructional Videos View Class Schedule in BearWeb Summer/Fall 2022 BearWeb Early Registration Schedule Waitlist Information Waitlist FAQs Returning Student Reactivation Returning Student Reactivation FAQs Wintermester Academic Services Transcript Information Additional Information Current Student Online Ordering Former Student Online Ordering Name and Address Change Enrollment/Degree Certification Commencement Information Non-certified Commencement Participation Policy Diploma Information Diploma Distribution for Current Graduates Duplicate Diploma Orders for Alumni Duplicate Diploma Order Form Dean's Academic Honor List Degree Audits GPA Slip/Final Grades Enrollment Status Undergraduate Course Repeat Policy FAQ's - Undergraduate Course Repeat and Academic Forgiveness Policy U.Achieve Instructional Videos Schedule of Classes & Catalogs Schedule of Classes University Catalogs Undergraduate Catalog Previous Undergraduate Catalogs Graduate Catalog Law School Catalog Seminary Catalog Final Exam Schedule Spring 2022 Fall 2022 Transfer Credit Transfer Credit Policies Equivalent Course Tool (ECT) Search by Outside Institution Search by Baylor Course Equivalent Course Request (ECR) Transfer Credit FAQs Abroad Equivalent Course Approval VA Education Benefits Announcements Apply for VA Educational Benefits Meet our VA Benefits Team VA Benefits Contact Information VA Benefits Appointment Scheduling Military Scholarships VA Chapter Benefits Chapter 33 Chapter 33 Application Process - Veterans or Active Duty Chapter 33 Application Process - Spouses or Dependents Chapter 33 - Private School Tuition & Fee Cap Timeline of VA Chapter 33 Certification Procedure VA CH 33 Refund Procedure Example Email John Fry Scholarship Chapter 35 Chapter 31 VA CH 31 Refund Procedure Chapter 30, 1606 VA Forms / Resources FAQs Ineligible Programs The Effects of Schedule Changes (Debt Info) Terminology VA COE Submission Yellow Ribbon Program Room Scheduling Faculty/Staff Resources Class Scheduling Schedule Build Timeline Development Grading Resources Class Roster Verification Electronic Catalog Implementation FERPA FERPA Policy Faculty/Staff Quick Guide Student Annual Notification FERPA Consent Form FAQs Office Information Mission Statement Staff Directory Activities and Responsibilities Organizational Chart Search the Site