Skip to main content Skip to main navigation Diversity & Inclusion Menu Leadership Commitment Future Gilbert-Walker Statue President's Diversity Council Faculty Development and Diversity Commitment to Diversity and Inclusion Developing Cultural Humility Diversity Updates Human Sexuality at Baylor Frequently Asked Questions Policy Commission on Historic Campus Representations Academic Programs Xavier University Exchange Program Baylor Interdisciplinary Core Women's and Gender Studies McNair Scholars Program Campus Involvement Active Citizenship Campus Communities Student Organizations and Greek Life THIS Matters Global Baylor Train & Learn Students Staff & Faculty Cultural Events Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. Day Community Events Resources Baylor Free Food Events Campus Diversity Committee Diversity Enhancement Grant Diversity Enhancement Award Cultural Events Experience for Religiously Diverse Students Communities of Faith Religious Observance Calendar The Good Neighbor Project Report It! The Career Closet Women's Colloquium Dr. Beverly Daniel Tatum Report It! Baylor>Diversity & Inclusion>Resources>Campus Diversity Committee>Diversity Enhancement Grant Diversity Enhancement Grant Diversity Grant Application Download the printable grant application. Instructions for Applicants Open to Individuals (Students, Staff and Faculty), Campus Organizations and Programs By its nature, a university reflects unity within diversity. The purpose of the Campus Diversity Committee is to promote diversity as a strength, as a core element in academic excellence, and as a reflection of a caring Christian community. The Campus Diversity Committee, with the support of the Office of the President, seeks to ensure an academic environment that welcomes, recognizes, respects and celebrates the personal heritage of all campus constituents. The Committee should emphasize efforts to strengthen community at Baylor. Individuals (students, staff and faculty), organizations and programs are invited to submit grant proposals that would strengthen and promote respect for diversity through innovative leadership and service, or policies, practices, events and programs designed to enhance a climate of understanding and respect throughout the campus community. Eight grants will be awarded throughout the academic year for the amount of $1000. Four grant recipients within the fall semester, and 4 in the spring semester. Individuals and organizations are limited to receiving one grant per semester. Grants will be distributed after the diversity committee receives a summary report for proposed event. Completed Application: A description (2-5 pages) of the proposed project, service, event and/or program including responses to the areas outlined below: Time period for the proposed program: spring, summer or fall and year. Duration of the proposed program (e.g. one day, recurring [identifying frequency] Date(s) and Time of the event/project (e.g. February 2, 2020, 6:00 p.m. to 8:00 p.m.) Campus location of the event or project A letter of support from the Dean, Director, Chair or Program Manager or Faculty Advisor most closely associated with the proposed service, event and/or program indicating commitment to support for the proposed service, event and/or program. A budget for the proposed project, resume(s) of any non-BU speakers invited to participate in the project, list of all collaborating groups and explanation of the nature of the collaboration, any data that documents the need for, support for and expected benefit of this project submit summary of program one week after event. OPTIONAL: submit a picture from event for diversity website Completed application packets must be submitted by the application due dates provided below: Fall Deadline: First Friday in September Spring Deadline: First Friday in February Priority in funding will be given to proposals that are designed to: Reach and include the broader campus community, reflect collaborative efforts between two or more organizations and/or departments, demonstrate diversity as a strength and a core element of academic excellence, build and celebrate community, and be cost effective (reflecting cost sharing). The completed application should be submitted to Campus_Diversity@baylor.edu Resources Baylor Free Food Events Campus Diversity Committee Diversity Enhancement Grant Diversity Enhancement Award Cultural Events Experience for Religiously Diverse Students Communities of Faith Religious Observance Calendar The Good Neighbor Project Report It! The Career Closet Women's Colloquium Dr. Beverly Daniel Tatum General Information Colleges, Schools, Libraries & Research Admissions Administration Gateways For... About Baylor Anonymous Reporting Athletics Ask Baylor Bookstore Calendar Campus Map Directory Give Light Give to Baylor Illuminate Mental Health Resources News Pro Futuris Report It Search Social Media Title IX Baylor Libraries College of Arts & Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work George W. Truett Theological Seminary Graduate School Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Louise Herrington School of Nursing Research at Baylor University Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Engineering & Computer Science School of Music More Academics Undergraduate Admissions goBAYLOR Graduate Admissions Baylor Law School Admissions Social Work Graduate Programs George W. Truett Theological Seminary Admissions Online Graduate Professional Education Virtual Tour Visit Campus Annual Fire Safety and Security Notice Athletics Human Resources Marketing and Communications Office of General Counsel Office of the President Office of the Provost Operations, Finance & Administration Senior Administration Student Life University Advancement Baylor Alumni Faculty & Staff Online Graduate Professional Education Parents Prospective Faculty & Staff Prospective Students Students Copyright © Baylor® University. All rights reserved. Legal Disclosures. Baylor University • Waco, Texas 76798 • 1-800-229-5678 Leadership Commitment Future Gilbert-Walker Statue President's Diversity Council Faculty Development and Diversity Commitment to Diversity and Inclusion Developing Cultural Humility Diversity Updates Human Sexuality at Baylor Frequently Asked Questions Policy Commission on Historic Campus Representations Academic Programs Xavier University Exchange Program Baylor Interdisciplinary Core Women's and Gender Studies McNair Scholars Program Campus Involvement Active Citizenship Campus Communities Student Organizations and Greek Life THIS Matters Global Baylor Train & Learn Students Staff & Faculty Cultural Events Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. Day Community Events Resources Baylor Free Food Events Campus Diversity Committee Diversity Enhancement Grant Diversity Enhancement Award Cultural Events Experience for Religiously Diverse Students Communities of Faith Religious Observance Calendar The Good Neighbor Project Report It! The Career Closet Women's Colloquium Dr. Beverly Daniel Tatum Report It!