Skip to Main Content? Texas Law Resources for: Students Faculty Staff Quick actions: Apply Give Log In Search University of Texas at Austin What are you searching for? Search Main Menu: Admissions & Financial Aid J.D. Admissions Admitted Students Quick Facts Tuition & Cost of Attendance Financial Aid Transfer/Transient Admissions LL.M. Admissions Recruiting Events Visit Us Equity and Inclusion Frequently Asked Questions Academics & Degree Programs Juris Doctor Program Master of Laws (LL.M.) Dual & Combined Degrees Experiential Learning Centers Texas Law Faculty Student Affairs Academic Services Support Services Student Life Equity and Inclusion Graduation Contact Student Affairs Career Services Finding Employment Career Paths Career Resources Judicial Clerkships For Alumni For Employers Employment Statistics Symplicity Login Contact Career Services Alumni & Giving About Texas Law Other links: News Calendar Directories Law Library CLE Texas Law Home Academics and Degree Programs Programs and Centers Academics and Degree Programs Menu Programs and Centers Texas Law is home to some of the nation's leading centers and programs in legal education. From our newest Institute for Transnational Law to our robust Center for Women in Law, our students are surrounded by networks that support their varied interests. Advocacy Program The University of Texas School of Law has a nationally recognized Advocacy Program that links the academic and competitive aspects of advocacy. The program focuses on all areas of advocacy by building on the rich tradition already established and assisting students in developing a core set of skills that will make them persuasive advocates no matter who their audience. Visit the Advocacy Program Website Bech-Loughlin First Amendment Center The Bech-Loughlin First Amendment Center, founded in 2020, is dedicated to advancing the discussion, education and scholarship of the First Amendment. The rights secured by the First Amendment include the liberties of religion, speech, and the press, as well as the freedoms to peacefully assemble and petition the government. The Center, led by Director Steven T. Collis, provides opportunities for deliberation about these rights and the controversies related to them, in forms that include conferences, scholarship, lectures, conversations, and debates. Among the center’s main projects will be a new experiential education opportunity, the Law and Religion Clinic. Visit the Bech-Loughlin First Amendment Center Website Bernard and Audre Rapoport Center for Human Rights and Justice The Rapoport Center serves as a focal point for critical, interdisciplinary analysis and practice of human rights and social justice. Its growing network of affiliated faculty from various disciplines provides the center with the academic energy and ideas to advance human rights work, and its graduate scholars and undergraduate interns support the center through their varied contributions to its programs. Visit the Bernard and Audre Rapoport Center for Human Rights and Justice Website Budd Innocence Center The Budd Innocence Center was created in 2017 to improve the criminal justice system by helping prevent injustice and protect the innocent. The Center sponsors events to highlight issues related to wrongful convictions and, as its main project, supports the education of students through the Actual Innocence Clinic. Visit the Budd Innocence Center Website Capital Punishment Center The Capital Punishment Center brings together scholars, students and practitioners interested in the death penalty and its administration. The law school has long been committed to educating students about capital punishment. The Capital Punishment Clinic has been offered every semester since the fall of 1987, and the center was created in 2006 to expand the law school’s academic focus on the issue. Visit the Capital Punishment Center Website Center for Law, Business and Economics The Center for Law, Business and Economics at The University of Texas School of Law fosters research and study on a variety of topics at the intersections among law, business and economics. Center faculty teach and write in many areas of the law, including copyright and patent law, bankruptcy, commercial law, corporations, antitrust, international trade and civil procedure. The most prominent focal points of the Center’s work are empirical studies and transactional studies. Visit the Center for Law, Business and Economics Website Center for Public Policy Dispute Resolution The Center for Public Policy Dispute Resolution provides effective conflict resolution assistance and services including education and training. The center is a nonprofit organization of professionals who focus on state and local government and are dedicated to the stewardship of conflict resolution in state and local government, the UT community and the public. The center seeks to bridge resolution with conflict using alternative dispute resolution methods. Visit the Center for Public Policy Dispute Resolution Website Center for Women in Law The Center for Women in Law is the premier educational institution devoted to the success of the entire spectrum of women in law, from first-year law students to the most experienced and accomplished attorneys. It combines theory with practice, identifying and addressing the persistent issues facing individual women and the profession as a whole. The center serves as a national resource to convene leaders, generate ideas and lead change. Visit the Center for Women in Law Website Center on Lawyers, Civil Justice and the Media The Center on Lawyers, Civil Justice, and the Media was established in 2002 to encourage the creation and broad dissemination of rigorous empirical studies of civil litigation and related subjects. Visit the Center on Lawyers, Civil Justice and the Media Website David J. Beck Center for Legal Research, Writing and Appellate Advocacy The Beck Center provides all students at The University of Texas School of Law with a foundation for excellence in legal research, oral presentation, oral argument and, most importantly, legal writing. The center is the organizational focal point for the required first-year courses in legal research and legal writing as well as advanced courses available to upper-class students. In addition, the Beck Center sponsors the law school’s interscholastic moot court teams, which travel to national and international competitions. Visit the David J. Beck Center for Legal Research, Writing and Appellate Advocacy Website Institute for Transnational Law The Institute for Transnational Law was established by the University of Texas School of Law to enhance the teaching of international and comparative law, to support research into international and comparative law, to build international contacts for the law school, and to increase student exchanges between Texas Law and the best foreign law schools around the world. Visit the Institute for Transnational Law Website Kay Bailey Hutchison Center for Energy, Law and Business The KBH Center’s mission is to be the pre-eminent energy center at the intersection of energy, policy, law and business. As a joint endeavor of the University of Texas School of Law and the McCombs School of Business, the KBH Center will achieve this mission by leveraging the resources and talents of the two schools and by collaborating with the many other schools, centers and areas of study that comprise the unparalleled collection of energy-related talent, expertise and knowledge at the University of Texas. The Center will: Strengthen the business and legal education of future leaders in the energy industry Convene leaders and experts for discussion, study and analysis of the business, economic and legal issues surrounding the production, transportation, distribution, and consumption of energy Create professional networks for effective collaboration among energy professionals, scholars, and government officials, and connect University of Texas students to such networks Visit the Kay Bailey Hutchison Center for Energy, Law and Business Website Law and Philosophy Program The Law and Philosophy Program (LPP) is a joint endeavor of the School of Law and Department of Philosophy at The University of Texas at Austin. The university established LPP as a combined J.D. and Ph.D. degree program that is designed to be completed in seven years. Students in LPP may count two law courses towards the Ph.D. requirements and four philosophy courses towards the J.D. requirements, and in this way they can save roughly a year’s worth of work towards the two degrees. Visit the Law and Philosophy Program Website Richard and Ginni Mithoff Pro Bono Program The vision for the Richard and Ginni Mithoff Pro Bono Program at Texas Law is that students will engage in pro bono work to increase access to justice, build their lawyering skills and develop a lifetime commitment to providing legal services to those in need. Visit the Richard and Ginni Mithoff Pro Bono Program Website Robert Strauss Center for International Security and Law The Robert Strauss Center for International Security and Law integrates expertise from across The University of Texas at Austin, as well as from the private and public sectors, in pursuit of practical solutions to emerging international challenges. Towards that end, the center sponsors a wide array of research programs and educational initiatives. Visit the Robert Strauss Center for International Security and Law Website William Wayne Justice Center for Public Interest Law The University of Texas School of Law joined with Judge William Wayne Justice’s former law clerks and many admirers in 2004 to create the William Wayne Justice Center for Public Interest Law in his honor. A resource for students, faculty, alumni and the community, the Justice Center promotes equal justice for all through legal education, scholarship and public service. Visit the William Wayne Justice Center for Public Interest Law Website Academics and Degree Programs The Juris Doctor Program Learning Outcomes Dual & Combined Degrees Master of Laws (LL.M.) Program Experiential Learning Advocacy Clinics Internships Pro Bono Program Legal Writing International, Study Abroad & Exchange Programs Programs & Centers Contact Texas Law Texas Law 727 East Dean Keeton St. Austin, Texas 78705 (512) 471-5151 Give to Texas Law Connect with Texas Law Facebook Twitter YouTube Flickr Instagram Helpful Links UT Home ABA Required Disclosures Web Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Policy Emergency Information Contact Us Resources Student Resources Faculty Resources Staff Resources © 2022 The University of Texas at Austin. PDF files require Adobe Reader or compatible.