We use cookies to make your website experience better. To learn about how we keep your information safe, view our Privacy Policy. Accept Safer Return to Campus Masks Strongly Recommended. Notification of Potential Workplace Exposure. Skip To Main Content Popular Searches × About About Considering College of Science? Dean's Office Dean's Welcome Faculty & Staff Awards Inclusive Excellence Strategic Plan Departments Biological Sciences Chemistry and Biochemistry Computer Science Geological Sciences Kinesiology and Health Promotion Mathematics and Statistics Physics and Astronomy Resources Advising Cal-Bridge CEMaST Current Student Information Discovery Camps Internships & Research Opportunities Job Opportunities Rain Bird BioTrek Scholarships Science Council/Clubs SEES Zoom Backgrounds Alumni & Partners Events Celebration of Student Research 2021 Commencement Events Calendar Research Symposium Science on Tap News Giving Contact 1 2 3 4 Slide1 Our Mission. Educate, mentor, and inspire students through scientific inquiry and hands-on learning. Slide2 Science Can Take You Places - 4337 students, 54% first generation college student, 60+ scholarships awarded annually, 100+ peer reviewed articles published annually, top 10 nationally for social mobility (2019 social mobility index), math and science starting salary 62,177 (NACE) Slide3 Our vision: fostering curiosity and a culture of scientific discovery. Slide4 Previous Next Science Can Take You Places Yes, science can take you places. Places you never thought were possible. Whether you dream of finding a cure for cancer, or exploring the depths of the ocean, or the farthest reaches of the universe, it’s science that can turn that dream into reality. At Cal Poly Pomona College of Science you’ll be taught and mentored by world-class teacher-scholars for whom teaching isn’t just a job, it’s a vocation. You’ll learn alongside colleagues who are as passionate as you are about science. When you’re not studying, you’ll find many opportunities for fun and friendship. You’ll find opportunities to conduct research and present your findings to the scientific community through symposiums, or co-author work published in peer reviewed journals. When you leave, you’ll be prepared for graduate school, or to start work in your field, applying the knowledge you gained at CPP. You’ll join the ranks of alumni who are now working as scientists, doctors, technicians, and educators. And you’ll be prepared to meet work and life challenges with creativity, revel in the discoveries you make along the way, and share innovative solutions that improve the world. Science can take you places. So where do you want to go? Considering College of Science? Advising News Information for Current Students Facebook Twitter Instagram 3801 West Temple Avenue, Pomona, CA 91768 ©2021 California State Polytechnic University, Pomona All Rights Reserved About Cal Poly Pomona Feedback Privacy Accessibility Document Readers