Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. UC News UC News right arrow down arrow UC News Search Topics right arrow down arrow UC Answers #UCtheGood In The News Arts & Culture Science & Tech International Athletics Health College Bound Impact right arrow down arrow #UCtheGood Insights Diversity Experience-Based Learning Next Lives Here Bicentennial COVID-19 Student Experience Colleges right arrow down arrow College of Allied Health Sciences College of Arts & Sciences College of Business Blue Ash College Clermont College College-Conservatory of Music College of Design, Architecture, Art, and Planning College of Education, Criminal Justice, & Human Services College of Engineering and Applied Science Graduate School College of Law College of Medicine College of Nursing College of Pharmacy Units right arrow down arrow Academic Health Center Admissions Alumni Association Board of Trustees Campus Services Equity and Inclusion Hoxworth Human Resources IT@UC Libraries Office of Innovation Office of Research President's Office Provost Public Safety Student Affairs UC Foundation Veteran's Affairs Continuing Education Media Contacts UC enters Reuters’ top 100 most innovative universities List includes University of Cincinnati among world’s biggest contributors to scientific advancement, technology development By Matt Koesters Email MattEmail Matt 513-556-5279 October 11, 2018 Share on facebook Share on Twitter Pin Story Print Story Like Reuters now counts the University of Cincinnati among the 100 most innovative institutions of higher learning in the world. UC entered Reuters’ 2018 rankings at No. 80, its first appearance since the news organization began the list in 2015. According to Reuters, "the list identifies and ranks the educational institutions doing the most to advance science, invent new technologies and power new markets and industries.” UC is one of 46 American institutions named on the list, and is ranked ahead of the State University of New York System, the University of Virginia, the University of Iowa, the University of Miami and Arizona State University. The debut of UC on Reuters’ top 100 most innovative universities coincides with the launch of the university’s bicentennial celebration and comes in the same year as the launch of Next Lives Here, the university’s strategic direction. Announced in February by UC President Neville Pinto, Next Lives Here names innovation as one of three key platforms necessary to advance the university’s vision of “leading public universities into a new era of innovation and impact.” Reuters’ inclusion of UC on its list of top innovation universities comes within a week of the university’s celebration of the grand opening of the 1819 Innovation Hub, UC’s state-of-the-art destination for thinking, making, doing, discovery and delivery. Innovate with industry The University of Cincinnati is the birthplace of cooperative education. UC's 1819 Innovation Hub takes experiential learning to a new level by providing students a place where they can interact and innovate with Cincinnati's vibrant business community. Learn how you can become part of the university's 1819 Innovation Hub. Become a Bearcat Apply to an undergraduate program at UC, or a graduate program, and become a part of UC's innovative vision for the future. Tags Impact International Related Stories Imaging Technology News: First FLASH proton therapy trial... May 27, 2022 The University of Cincinnati's John Breneman, MD, spoke with Imaging Technology News about the completion of enrollment of the FAST-01 trial, the first FLASH proton therapy trial completed in humans. KNX In Depth: Twitter cracks down on misinformation May 27, 2022 Social media expert Jeffrey Blevins featured guest on live radio show, KNX InDepth. The topic is Twitter and information regulation. Presidential medals honor the 'best of the best' May 26, 2022 The University of Cincinnati honors four undergraduates with the Presidential Leadership Medal of Excellence and two graduate students with the Presidential Medal of Graduate Student Excellence in the annual 2022 celebration at Cincinnati's Queen City Club. NYT: Glyndebourne Opera Festival revives 'The Wreckers' starring... May 24, 2022 The New York Times features the Glyndebourne Festival Opera's revival of The Wreckers by British composer Ethel Smyth, which features UC College-Conservatory of Music alumna Karis Tucker (MM Voice, '16). The mezzo-soprano plays Thurza in the opera, which runs May 21-June 24 at the Festival. Connecting through music May 24, 2022 The University of Cincinnati's College of Medicine and College-Conservatory of Music collaborate on the innovative Dementia and the Arts course and intervention for community members with cognitive disorders and their family members. O’Toole co-edits book on women in pediatrics May 23, 2022 The University of Cincinnati's Dr. Jennifer O’Toole is co-editor of the book “Women in Pediatrics: The Past, Present and Future.” Debug Query for this University of Cincinnati 2600 Clifton Ave. Cincinnati, OH 45220 513-556-0000 UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati University of Cincinnati 2600 Clifton Ave. Cincinnati, OH 45220 513-556-0000 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top