Skip to main content Google Tag Manager Explore Brown University Search Brown Show/Hide powered by Learn More About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life Find A to Z Index People Directory Information for Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Top Destinations Global Brown Watson Institute Graduate School Alpert Medical School School of Public Health School of Engineering Swearer Center. Brown University. Search form Search Home About Programs Voting at Brown Events at Swearer about programs People Stories Students Faculty Community Partners Friends & Alumni Sign up for our Newsletter Programs Royce Fellowship Established in 1996 through the generosity of Charles Royce, '61, the Royce Fellowship supports Brown undergraduates as they carry out independent engaged research projects of their own design in locations across the United States and around the world. Fellows conduct their research under the supervision of a faculty member and as part of an interdisciplinary cohort of students from across the university. The program confers lifetime membership in the Society of Royce Fellows - a community of student scholars, faculty fellows and Royce alumni that offers a forum for reflection, inquiry and intellectual engagement within the university. Applicants from all concentrations are welcome, but the fellowship does require the support of a faculty mentor and that recipients be in residence at Brown for the fall semester. For further information, please email [email protected]. meet the Royce Fellowship Cohorts <a href="https://www.youtube.com/embed/2wQIbawyRp4?wmode=opaque">Embedded video</a> Structure Application Development Phase: In the spring semester, prospective applicants work with Swearer Center staff to develop and propose an engaged scholarship research project. Selection occurs in the Spring semester. *The Swearer Center will host two virtual application writing workshops for the Royce Fellowship on February 11 and February 23. A slide deck from these workshops is available to view here. Spring Semester Fellows Institute: Once selected, Fellows participate in an orientation, getting to know one another and preparing to embark on their individual research projects by discussing key questions related to the research process. Summer Research Phase: Fellows receive an award of $4,500 to pursue their proposed research project over the summer. Fellows participate in regular cohort meetings throughout the summer to discuss progress and troubleshoot. Fall Cohort Phase: In the Fall semester following the project summer, fellows participate (as a cohort) in a fall retreat and workshops on applying for post-graduate fellowships and crafting presentations. Fall/ Spring Presentations: Fellows present their findings (in either Fall or Spring semesters) to the broader campus and Providence community. Chuck Royce Royce Map FAQ BrownEngage Eligibility/Timeline All rising sophomores, juniors and seniors who will return to Brown for at least one full semester following the summer in which they conduct their research are eligible to apply to the Royce Fellowship. Students who have applied in previous years are welcome to submit applications for the same or a different proposal to the program. Previous applications have no bearing on the candidacy of a current applicant. U.S. citizenship is not a determinant of eligibility. All eligible fellows receive a Summer Earnings Waiver. If the proposal requires international travel, the applicant must agree to sign a contract and waiver stating that they will abide by the university’s protocols. Students will not be funded to travel to countries on the State Department's warning list. Apply The 2022 Royce Fellowship application will open in UFunds on December 13, 2021. All application materials are due by March 4, 2022. You may view a .pdf of the application form here. Contact jesús hernández, Associate Director, Engaged Scholarship Schedule an office hours appointment Maggie Unverzagt Goddard, Graduate Assistant, Royce Fellowship Schedule an office hours appointment donate to the royce fellowship Celebrating the Class of 2022. read> Celebrating the Royce Fellowship. read> See All Royce Fellowship Stories FAQmeet the Royce Fellowship Cohorts Contact Swearer Center Brown University 2 Stimson Avenue Box 1974 Providence, R.I. 02912 +1 401 863 2338 s[email protected] Quicklinks Home About Programs Voting at Brown Events at Swearer BrownEngage Connect Swearer http://www.facebook.com/SwearerCenter https://twitter.com/swearercenter https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCDdrA9Z9vbwIOAjCHxjvp7Q https://www.instagram.com/swearercenter/ https://www.linkedin.com/company/swearercenter Giving to Brown Brown University Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-1000 Maps & Directions / Contact Us / Accessibility © 2016 Brown University Connect: [email protected] Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram iTunes U LinkedIn SnapChat