Skip to content Columbia University Irving Medical Center Find People Events Faculty and Staff Resources Give Now Search About Us About Us Facts and Figures Explore CUIMC Events Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion at CUIMC Community Development and Alumni Explore CUIMC Leadership and Administration A-Z Listing Affiliated Hospitals Campus Map and Directions Campus Resources Contact CUIMC Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion At CUIMC, we are committed to continuous improvement in providing culturally inclusive medical education and clinical care. Learn About Our Commitment Education Education Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons Mailman School of Public Health School of Nursing College of Dental Medicine VP&S Columbia Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons is dedicated to developing the next generation of leaders in medicine Learn About Our Academic Programs Research Research The Louisa Gross Horwitz Prize Columbia Technology Ventures Research Administration Columbia Clinical Innovation Lab Patient Care Patient Care ColumbiaDoctors Children's Health Columbia Primary Care Herbert Irving Comprehensive Cancer Center ColumbiaDoctors Dentistry Digital Health Services at Columbia Find a Doctor Search for a provider by specialty, expertise, location and insurance. Schedule an appointment online. Find a Doctor News News For the Media Share Your News CUIMC Update CUIMC Celebrates Columbia Medicine Read the latest news stories about CUIMC faculty, research, and events Explore Our News COVID-19 Resources for CUIMC COVID-19 Resources for CUIMC COVID-19 Information for Patients COVID-19 Campus Safety for Employees and Students COVID-19 Vaccine Information For CUIMC Employees and Students COVID-19 Information and Resources for Clinical Staff COVID-19 Vaccine Information Learn about COVID-19 vaccine availability and requirements for employees and students at CUIMC Get the Latest Information Neurology Topics Campus News Research Medical School Public Health Cancer Mental Health Infectious Diseases Neurology Neuroscience Education Heart Health Pediatrics View All Topics Search All News Keywords News Subtopics: Alzheimer's Epilepsy Parkinson's Stroke Top Stories Missing Link Between Alzheimer’s and Vascular Disease Found? A gene called FMNL2 may explain why people with hypertension, diabetes, heart disease, or obesity have a greater risk of developing Alzheimer's disease. Topic Alzheimer's Transient Ischemic Attacks May Be Brief But Need Serious Attention A transient ischemic attack (TIA) is a stroke that usually lasts under five minutes and resolves on its own, but just because the symptoms disappear, does not mean a TIA should be ignored. New Initiative to Develop Personalized Therapies for People with Rare Genetic Forms of ALS A new initiative led by Columbia University and the n-Lorem Foundation will develop personalized therapies for individuals with "nano-rare" genetic forms of ALS and treat them for free, for life. Topic Campus News Genetic Testing for Parkinson’s Disease: What You Need to Know Parkinson’s patients and their families are increasingly turning to genetic testing to learn more about their disease or risk of passing it on. But testing is complex, and counseling is advised. Topic Campus News Latest News Dementia and COVID: What Families and Physicians Should Know March 30, 2021 In people with dementia, delirium during COVID-19 is more common but deaths from COVID-19 are not disproportionately higher, finds a new study. Topic COVID-19 A New Way to Prevent Nerve Damage Caused by Chemotherapy? February 18, 2021 New research may lead to the development of drugs to prevent the nerve damage and pain many cancer patients experience during chemotherapy. Topic Cancer Critical Flaw Found in Lab Models of the Human Blood-Brain Barrier February 8, 2021 Cells used to study the human blood-brain barrier in the lab aren’t what they seem, a new study has found, throwing nearly a decade’s worth of research into question. Topic Research Central Trafficking Compartment in Neurons Malfunctions in a Majority of Alzheimer’s Patients November 25, 2020 A new Columbia study suggests that malfunctioning endosomes—a central trafficking station inside neurons—are commonly involved in the appearance of Alzheimer’s disease. Topic Alzheimer's Sabrina Diano Brings Brain Research Focus to Institute of Human Nutrition November 12, 2020 Ancient parts of the brain may hold secrets that help explain the drive to eat and how eating may affect brain health. Sabrina Diano, the new Institute of Human Nutrition director, is investigating. Topic Nutrition Study Finds New Genetic Risk Factors for Alzheimer’s Disease in Blacks October 21, 2020 A new study of Alzheimer’s genes suggests the disease in Blacks and whites is largely the same, but genetic changes that increase the risk of developing the disease differ between the two groups. Topic Alzheimer's Even Mild Cases Can Cause “COVID-19 Fog” September 21, 2020 Months after recovering from a mild case of COVID-19, even healthy young adults are experiencing memory problems, fatigue, mood changes, and other neurological and psychiatric issues. Topic COVID-19 Delirium May Cause Long-Term Cognitive Decline July 14, 2020 Patients who experienced delirium were more likely to be cognitively impaired three or more months after the delirium episode, a new study from Columbia researchers has found. Topic Infectious Diseases Alzheimer's: New Gene May Drive Earliest Brain Changes June 22, 2020 A newly discovered Alzheimer’s gene appears to drive the first appearance of amyloid plaque in the brain and could lead to new therapies that prevent the disease from developing. Topic Alzheimer's Seizures Caused by Brain Cancer May Also Fuel Cancer's Spread April 20, 2020 Seizures are usually considered a side effect of brain cancer, but a new Columbia University study of mice suggests they may also fuel the further growth of brain tumors. Topic Brain Cancer Pages first previous 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 … next last Columbia University Irving Medical Center NewYork-Presbyterian About Us Careers News Education Patient Care Research Resources at CUIMC Columbia University Irving Medical Center 630 West 168th Street New York, NY 10032 United States Follow Us Facebook Twitter YouTube LinkedIn Instagram Back to top