COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW Details: Aging Studies, Major MajorAging Studies All Programs College of Health Professions Public Health Sciences WSU's bachelor's degree in aging studies combines its quality curriculum with the flexibility of a completely online format—and two undergraduate degree options—to prepare you for high-demand careers in the aging service industry. Learn how aging studies is the right fit for you. Request Info Start Your Application Applied learning at Wichita State At Wichita State, applied learning is everything. In fact, every degree we offer has a guaranteed applied learning or research experience built right into it equipping you with the relevant skills and experience to make you workforce ready before graduation. Learn about our innovative approach Admission to the program To be admitted into the College of Health Professions, you must first be admitted to Wichita State. For WSU's admission requirements, and to apply, click the link below. Admission requirements Inside the Program Older adults benefit from student-led exercise classes through Wichita State Highly trained graduate, practicum and undergraduate internship students are using their skills to lead exercise classes for older adults in the community. The program is called WellREP and is an evidence-based, progressive exercise class specially designed for older adults. More than 500 older adults are served at 18 locations in the Wichita area. Curriculum Choose from two completely online options: Bachelor of Arts Field Major in Aging Studies Design a program of study with a primary emphasis on aging studies. Collaborate with an academic advisor and choose courses that cater to your interests within a liberal-arts based education. Bachelor of General Studies – aging studies emphasis Study three academic disciplines—with an emphasis on aging studies—to gain a diverse set of skills for success in a wide variety of health- and aging-related careers. View the curriculum Careers With an increasingly large aging population comes the need for well-trained aging specialists in a wide variety of settings, including: Academia Aging research and policy institutes HMOs and hospitals Mental health Pharmaceutical companies Skilled nursing facilities Learn more about careers in this field Similar Programs Aging Studies (Bachelor's to Master's) Aging Studies (Minor) Aging Studies (Undergraduate Certificate) Exercise Science Communication Sciences and Disorders 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©