Skip to content Clemson University Clemson University Search Menu Close Sorry, your browser does not support inline SVG. Sorry, your browser does not support inline SVG. Apply Giving News Resources for Students Faculty & Staff Parents Alumni Clemson University Academics Forward Arrow Back Arrow Back Academics Home Employment Opportunities Apply for Admission Colleges College of Agriculture, Forestry and Life Sciences College of Architecture, Arts and Humanities College of Behavioral, Social and Health Sciences Wilbur O. and Ann Powers College of Business College of Education College of Engineering, Computing and Applied Sciences College of Science Graduate School Academic Resources Academic Calendar Registrar Division of Undergraduate Studies Center for Career and Professional Development Academic Success Center GRAD 360° Libraries Outside the Classroom PEER/WISE Call Me MISTER® Creative Inquiry and Undergraduate Research Cooperative Education University Professional Internship and Co-op Program (UPIC) Study Abroad Admissions Forward Arrow Back Arrow Back Admissions Home Schedule a Tour Apply for Admission Applying to Clemson First-Year Undergraduate Transfer Undergraduate International Undergraduate Graduate Students Academic Opportunities Majors Graduate Programs Online Graduate Programs Scholar Programs Paths to Graduate School Honors College Experiential Learning Financial Aid Tuition and Fee Calculator Undergraduate Financial Aid Graduate Fellowships and Awards Residency Requirements Campus Life Forward Arrow Back Arrow Back Campus Life Home Club Sports Brooks Center for the Performing Arts Join Your Clemson Family Finding Your Community Living-Learning Communities Student Veterans Multicultural Programs FIRST Army ROTC Air Force ROTC Services On Campus Housing & Dining Campus Recreation Parking and Transportation Student Health Services TigerOne Card Services Clemson Athletics Get Involved Clubs and Organizations Fraternity and Sorority Life Orientation Ambassadors Tiger Media Graduate Student Government Undergraduate Student Government Research Forward Arrow Back Arrow Back Research Home Clemson University Research Foundation (CURF) Division of Research Research Opportunities Student Research at Clemson Creative Inquiry Research Facilities Postdoctoral Affairs Serving South Carolina Through Research School of Health Research Public Service and Agriculture Clemson Experimental Forest Clemson Extension Clemson Research and Education Centers Public Service and Agriculture Research Farm Services Innovation and Economic Development Corporate Partnerships and Strategic Initiatives Clemson University International Center for Automotive Research (CU-ICAR) Clemson University Restoration Institute (CURI) Clemson University Biomedical Engineering Innovation Campus (CUBEInC) Center for Human Genetics Innovation Campus and Technology Park About Clemson Forward Arrow Back Arrow Back About Clemson Home Clemson News Clemson Athletics For Tigers Applying to Clemson Working at Clemson Traditions Military Heritage Things To Do in Clemson Visit Clemson Campus Resources Employment Opportunities Home and Garden Information Center Brand Guidelines CCIT Academic Calendar Training ClemsonForward Campus Leadership Board of Trustees President Academic Affairs and Provost Inclusion and Equity Student Affairs Faculty Senate Staff Senate Search Resources for Current Students Parents Faculty & Staff Alumni College of Education Academics Forward Arrow Academics Undergraduate Forward Arrow Undergraduate Agricultural Education Early Childhood Education, B.A. Elementary Education, B.A. Human Capital Education & Development, B.S. Middle Level Education, B.S. Mathematics Teaching, B.S. Modern Languages Education, B.A. Special Education, B.A. Secondary Education, B.A. Science Teaching, B.S./B.A. Athletic Leadership Minor Back Arrow Back Expressway to Tiger Town Bachelors To Masters Masters and Specialist Programs Forward Arrow Masters and Specialist Programs Athletic Leadership (Online) Counselor Education Educational Leadership Human Resource Development Literacy (Online) Middle Level Education, MAT Secondary Education, MAT Special Education (Online) Student Affairs Teaching and Learning (Online) Back Arrow Back Doctoral Programs Forward Arrow Doctoral Programs Education Systems Improvement Science Educational Leadership Learning Sciences Literacy, Language and Culture Special Education Teaching and Learning Back Arrow Back Certificates | Endorsements | Licensure Back Arrow Back Research Forward Arrow Research Start Your Proposal Resources REAL Lunches Grant Fellows Program Back Arrow Back Programs Forward Arrow Programs Educational Programs Forward Arrow Educational Programs Call Me MISTER® ClemsonLIFE Expressway To Tiger Town Human Capital Education and Development CU Teacher Learning Progression STEM - STEAM Teaching Fellows Upstate Writing Project Back Arrow Back Labs Forward Arrow Labs Arts and Creativity Lab Contexts of Learning & Development Lab CLEaR Lab Digital Media Learning Lab IDEA Lab Back Arrow Back Centers and Institutes Forward Arrow Centers and Institutes Digital Media and Learning Center Education Media Center Reading Recovery Training Center SC-CEIMS SC-CREDE Back Arrow Back Back Arrow Back Students Forward Arrow Students Student Advising Forward Arrow Student Advising Bridge & Transfer Students Change of Major FAQs Prospective Students Back Arrow Back Field Experience Forward Arrow Field Experience Cooperating Teachers and Site Mentors Teacher Education Field Experience Teacher Residency University Supervisors Back Arrow Back Student Opportunities Forward Arrow Student Opportunities Student Advisory Boards Student Organizations Study Abroad Teaching Fellows Departmental Honors Back Arrow Back Student Resources Back Arrow Back About Forward Arrow About From the Dean Administration Departments Forward Arrow Departments Education and Human Development Educational and Organizational Leadership Development Teaching and Learning Back Arrow Back Directory Forward Arrow Directory Administration and Support Centers and Programs Education and Human Development Educational and Organizational Leadership Development Teaching and Learning Back Arrow Back Alumni and Friends Forward Arrow Alumni and Friends Advancement Board About the Moore Family 2021 Masters & Doctoral Graduates Back Arrow Back Inclusive Excellence Innovation and Outreach Annual Reporting Forward Arrow Annual Reporting CAEP Reporting Back Arrow Back Employee Services Back Arrow Back Apply Giving News Sikes Hall Icon Main Menu Forward Arrow Icon Back Arrow Icon Back Clemson University Academics Academics Home Employment Opportunities Apply for Admission Colleges College of Agriculture, Forestry and Life Sciences College of Architecture, Arts and Humanities College of Behavioral, Social and Health Sciences Wilbur O. and Ann Powers College of Business College of Education College of Engineering, Computing and Applied Sciences College of Science Graduate School Academic Resources Academic Calendar Registrar Division of Undergraduate Studies Center for Career and Professional Development Academic Success Center GRAD 360° Libraries Outside the Classroom PEER/WISE Call Me MISTER® Creative Inquiry and Undergraduate Research Cooperative Education University Professional Internship and Co-op Program (UPIC) Study Abroad Admissions Admissions Home Schedule a Tour Apply for Admission Applying to Clemson First-Year Undergraduate Transfer Undergraduate International Undergraduate Graduate Students Academic Opportunities Majors Graduate Programs Online Graduate Programs Scholar Programs Paths to Graduate School Honors College Experiential Learning Financial Aid Tuition and Fee Calculator Undergraduate Financial Aid Graduate Fellowships and Awards Residency Requirements Campus Life Campus Life Home Club Sports Brooks Center for the Performing Arts Join Your Clemson Family Finding Your Community Living-Learning Communities Student Veterans Multicultural Programs FIRST Army ROTC Air Force ROTC Services On Campus Housing & Dining Campus Recreation Parking and Transportation Student Health Services TigerOne Card Services Clemson Athletics Get Involved Clubs and Organizations Fraternity and Sorority Life Orientation Ambassadors Tiger Media Graduate Student Government Undergraduate Student Government Research Research Home Clemson University Research Foundation (CURF) Division of Research Research Opportunities Student Research at Clemson Creative Inquiry Research Facilities Postdoctoral Affairs Serving South Carolina Through Research School of Health Research Public Service and Agriculture Clemson Experimental Forest Clemson Extension Clemson Research and Education Centers Public Service and Agriculture Research Farm Services Innovation and Economic Development Corporate Partnerships and Strategic Initiatives Clemson University International Center for Automotive Research (CU-ICAR) Clemson University Restoration Institute (CURI) Clemson University Biomedical Engineering Innovation Campus (CUBEInC) Center for Human Genetics Innovation Campus and Technology Park About Clemson About Clemson Home Clemson News Clemson Athletics For Tigers Applying to Clemson Working at Clemson Traditions Military Heritage Things To Do in Clemson Visit Clemson Campus Resources Employment Opportunities Home and Garden Information Center Brand Guidelines CCIT Academic Calendar Training ClemsonForward Campus Leadership Board of Trustees President Academic Affairs and Provost Inclusion and Equity Student Affairs Faculty Senate Staff Senate Search close College of Education Academics show submenu for Academics Undergraduate show submenu for Undergraduate Agricultural Education Early Childhood Education, B.A. Elementary Education, B.A. Human Capital Education & Development, B.S. Middle Level Education, B.S. Mathematics Teaching, B.S. Modern Languages Education, B.A. Special Education, B.A. Secondary Education, B.A. Science Teaching, B.S./B.A. Athletic Leadership Minor Expressway to Tiger Town Bachelors To Masters Masters and Specialist Programs show submenu for Masters and Specialist Programs Athletic Leadership (Online) Counselor Education Educational Leadership Human Resource Development Literacy (Online) Middle Level Education, MAT Secondary Education, MAT Special Education (Online) Student Affairs Teaching and Learning (Online) Doctoral Programs show submenu for Doctoral Programs Education Systems Improvement Science Educational Leadership Learning Sciences Literacy, Language and Culture Special Education Teaching and Learning Certificates | Endorsements | Licensure Research show submenu for Research Start Your Proposal Resources REAL Lunches Grant Fellows Program Programs show submenu for Programs Educational Programs show submenu for Educational Programs Call Me MISTER® ClemsonLIFE Expressway To Tiger Town Human Capital Education and Development CU Teacher Learning Progression STEM - STEAM Teaching Fellows Upstate Writing Project Labs show submenu for Labs Arts and Creativity Lab Contexts of Learning & Development Lab CLEaR Lab Digital Media Learning Lab IDEA Lab Centers and Institutes show submenu for Centers and Institutes Digital Media and Learning Center Education Media Center Reading Recovery Training Center SC-CEIMS SC-CREDE Students show submenu for Students Student Advising show submenu for Student Advising Bridge & Transfer Students Change of Major FAQs Prospective Students Field Experience show submenu for Field Experience Cooperating Teachers and Site Mentors Teacher Education Field Experience Teacher Residency University Supervisors Student Opportunities show submenu for Student Opportunities Student Advisory Boards Student Organizations Study Abroad Teaching Fellows Departmental Honors Student Resources About show submenu for About From the Dean show submenu for From the Dean Dean's Leadership Institute Administration Departments show submenu for Departments Education and Human Development Educational and Organizational Leadership Development Teaching and Learning Directory show submenu for Directory Administration and Support Centers and Programs Education and Human Development Educational and Organizational Leadership Development Teaching and Learning Alumni and Friends show submenu for Alumni and Friends Advancement Board About the Moore Family 2021 Masters & Doctoral Graduates Inclusive Excellence Innovation and Outreach Annual Reporting show submenu for Annual Reporting CAEP Reporting Employee Services Clemson Home College of Education Academics Masters and Specialist Programs Current: Educational Leadership Educational Leadership, M.Ed. / Ed.S. Our online Master of Education (M.Ed.) and Educational Specialist (Ed.S.) in Educational Leadership programs are for experienced educators who want to learn how to serve students and communities collaboratively and to acquire the necessary skills to solve the complex problems facing schools today. The M.Ed. and Ed.S. programs combine the educational excellence that Clemson University is known for with the flexibility that many educators need. Student Handbook Academic Calendar Faculty Directory M.Ed. Building-Level Brochure Ed.S. Building-Level Brochure Ed.S. District Level Brochure Apply Now Overview Our online Master of Education (M.Ed.) and Educational Specialist (Ed.S.) in Educational Leadership programs are for experienced educators who want to learn how to serve students and communities collaboratively and to acquire the necessary skills to solve the complex problems facing schools today. The M.Ed. and Ed.S. programs combine the educational excellence that Clemson University is known for with the flexibility that many educators need. The programs enable students to earn an advanced degree in educational leadership. The Ed.S. is a post-master’s degree and is appropriate for people who already have a master’s degree. Our graduates become principals, assistant principals, instructional coaches, curriculum specialists, and serve in a wide variety of building-level and district-level leadership roles. New building-level cohorts begin every fall and new district-level cohorts begin in the fall of odd numbered years. Admission Requirements The Educational Leadership master’s and specialist programs admits students for fall entrance only. Only complete applications are considered for admission. Application Deadlines M.Ed. and Ed.S. building-level programs (new cohorts start every fall) Ed.S. district-level program (new cohorts start in the fall of odd-numbered years only) January 15, priority deadline Applications will be reviewed for early decisions. Applicants are encouraged to apply by this date as cohorts fill up quickly. May 1, traditional deadline Application Requirements To be considered for the Program, applicants must: Have completed a bachelor’s degree from a regionally accredited college or university with a minimum GPA of 3.0 on a 4.0 scale or from a recognized international University with a bachelor’s degree equivalent to a US bachelor's. Be working in or have access to an educational setting. Have a minimum of two years teaching experience. Submit an online Graduate School application which requires: Unofficial transcript(s) (official transcripts will be required if you are accepted into the program.) A current resume Three recommendation forms Recommendation forms are emailed directly to recommenders via the online application process One form must be completed by your principal or superintendent A personal statement Prompts will be provided within the application Meet one of the following criteria: Official Graduate Record Exam (GRE) scores taken within the last five years A GPA of at least 3.0 on a 4.0 scale on the last degree earned At least five years of classroom teaching experience with at least two years in a leadership position (e.g., subject or team leader, department chair, after school program coordinator) Alternative graduate level exam (e.g., MAT, LSAT, & MCAT) Students seeking building-level certification in South Carolina, or any other state in the United States, should consult the relevant educational authorities for information regarding certification requirements. Additional information concerning supporting materials Program Delivery Courses are offered in eight-week terms (excluding summers which are five-week terms). Taking one course at a time, students complete two courses each semester. With the support of CU Online, Clemson uses the most advanced online technology to provide a rich, supportive, seamless learning environment. Courses will be asynchronous thus allowing students to access courses when and where they need. While students have great flexibility in asynchronous learning, there are key deadlines in each course when learning modules must be completed. Students will be provided with timely support from instructors and technology personnel so that learning is maximized. Canvas, a very user friendly learning management system, is used for all courses to guide the learning experiences. An orientation module will be provided before the start of the program to allow students to become comfortable with expectations and the technologies before classes formally start. Master of Education (M.Ed.) Options - Building Level Option 1: M.Ed. with South Carolina building-level certification Option 1 is for certified South Carolina educators. This option includes a 30-hour core and two internships and leads to either elementary or secondary building-level administrative certification. Option 2: M.Ed. with potential for out-of-state building-level certification* Option 2 is for educators certified in a state other than South Carolina. In this option, students may be able to apply for certification in their own state by completing Clemson’s 30-hour core and transferring in six internship credit hours from another accredited program. * Clemson’s M.Ed. is fully accredited in South Carolina. Educators interested in receiving certification in another state are responsible for consulting with their state education agencies to determine their specific certification requirements. Option 3: M.Ed. Option 3 is for educators desiring an educational leadership degree without certification. In this option, students may take the 30-hour core and add two graduate-level electives. Students may choose from a range of electives taught online from across Clemson’s College of Education. These courses are in areas such as athletic leadership, human resource development, online instructional design, literacy, and STEAM, and may be used to earn additional certifications. Students may also transfer in the six credit hours from another accredited university. Educational Specialist (Ed.S.) Options - Building Level Option 1: Ed.S. with South Carolina building-level certification Option 1 is for certified South Carolina educators. This option includes a 30-hour core and two internships and leads to either elementary or secondary building-level administrative certification. Option 2: Ed.S. with potential for out-of-state building-level certification** Option 2 is for educators certified in a state other than South Carolina. In this option, students may be able to apply for certification in their own state by completing Clemson’s 30-hour core and transferring in six internship credit hours from another accredited program. ** Clemson’s Ed.S. is fully accredited in South Carolina. Educators interested in receiving certification in another state are responsible for consulting with their state education agencies to determine their specific certification requirements. Option 3: Ed.S. Option 3 is for educators desiring an educational leadership degree without certification. In this option, students simply complete the 30-hour core. Program Requirements - M.Ed. - Building Level The M.Ed. consists of 12 courses, totaling 36 credit hours, with a ten-course, 30-credit core. The six-semester program can be completed in 24 months with two courses offered each fall, spring, and summer. All courses are taken online and have field-based learning experiences embedded in them. The course sequence features a developmental approach to leadership in schools and communities with attention to the effects of rurality, poverty, and race on learning conditions and on student and community development. For those seeking certification, two internships are required. Non-certification students may choose from elective courses in programs across Clemson’s College of Education or transfer in electives from other programs. As the M.Ed. includes many applied experiences, students must be working in or have access to an educational setting. – First Year – Fall EDLL 8000 – Introduction to School Leadership EDLL 8050 – Contemporary Issues in School Leadership Spring EDLL 8200 – School Personnel Development EDLL 8250 – Law and Ethics for School Leaders Summer EDLL 8100 – Organizational Improvement in School Leadership EDLL 8300 – Instructional Leadership I – Second Year – Fall EDLL 8400 – Instructional Leadership II EDLL 8500/8550 – School Internship I or Elective Spring EDLL 8150 – Community Relations for School Leaders EDLL 8450 – Resource Management for School Leaders Summer EDLL 8350 – Program Evaluation for School Leaders EDLL 8510/8560 – School Internship II or Elective * Internship is only required for those seeking South Carolina certification (option 1) Program Requirements - Ed.S. - Building Level Building-Level Certification The Ed.S. consists of a 10-course, 30-credit core, with two additional internship courses required for those seeking building-level certification. The six-semester program can be completed in 24 months with two courses offered each fall, spring and summer. All courses are taken online and have field-based learning experiences embedded in them. The course sequence features a developmental approach to leadership in schools and communities with attention to the effects of rurality, poverty, and race on learning conditions and on student and community development. For those seeking certification, two internships are required. As the Ed.S. includes many applied experiences, students must be working in or have access to an educational setting. – First Year – Fall EDLL 8000 – Introduction to School Leadership EDLL 8050 – Contemporary Issues in School Leadership Spring EDLL 8200 – School Personnel Development EDLL 8250 – Law and Ethics for School Leaders Summer EDLL 8100 – Organizational Improvement in School Leadership EDLL 8300 – Instructional Leadership I – Second Year – Fall EDLL 8400 – Instructional Leadership II EDLL 8500/8550 – School Internship I or Elective Spring EDLL 8150 – Community Relations for School Leaders EDLL 8450 – Resource Management for School Leaders Summer EDLL 8350 – Program Evaluation for School Leaders EDLL 8510/8560 – School Internship II or Elective * Internship is only required for those seeking South Carolina certification (option 1) Program Requirements - Ed.S. - District Level District-Level Certification The district-level Ed.S. consists of a 10-course, 30-credit core, which includes two sequenced internship courses required for those seeking district-level certification. The five-semester program can be completed in 20 months with two courses offered each fall, spring, and summer. All courses are taken online and have field-based learning experiences embedded in them. The course sequence features a developmental approach to leadership in schools and communities with attention to the effects of rurality, poverty, and race on learning conditions and on student and community development. For those seeking certification, two internships are required. For those interested in the degree-only, two elective courses approved by the student’s advisor and two advising committee members, may be substituted for the two, sequenced internships. As the Ed.S. includes many applied experiences, students must be working in or have access to an educational setting. – First Year – Fall EDL 8050 – Advanced Educational Leadership: Theory and Practice EDL 8150 – The Superintendency Spring EDL 8100 – School Facilities Planning EDL 8200 – Politics of Education Summer EDL 9250 – School System Instructional Leadership EDL 8300 – Finance in School Systems – Second Year – Fall EDIS 9360 – Advanced Program Evaluation EDL 8400 – Field Problems in School Administration and Supervision of Instruction Spring EDL 8500 – Internship in School System Leadership I EDL 8510 – Internship in School System Leadership 2 OR Degree-Only (no certification) Two elective courses, approved by advisor & two Ed.S. advising committee members Financial Information As a top 30 university, Clemson University continually strives for unsurpassed quality offered at an economical price. Tuition and Fees Explore information on tuition and fees using the Student Financial Services’ tuition and fee calculator (be sure to choose the ‘online’ tab at the top of the page). South Carolina Teacher Incentive The Educational Leadership M.Ed. and Ed.S. offers a South Carolina Teacher Incentive reducing tuition by 10% for all in-state SC K-12 teachers and leaders. Financial Aid For information regarding Financial Aid, please contact the office of Student Financial Aid. Information Sessions & Calendar Review our College of Education Graduate Calendar to view upcoming events and information sessions. Graduate Event Calendar Find Out More For more information regarding the program or questions associated with applying to this program, please contact Stephanie Henry, student services program coordinator, at shenry3@clemson.edu or 864-656-0416 Department of Educational and Organizational Leadership Development Copyright © Clemson University Department of Educational and Organizational Leadership Development | 330 Gantt Circle 864-656-3484 | Email Us | Website Updates intro-arrow Engage With Us Through Facebook Twitter Instagram Clemson University Facebook Instagram Twitter Linkedin Youtube Tiktok Policy/Terms of Use Web Accessibility Ethics/Safety Hotline Privacy Policy Copyright © 2022 Clemson University • Clemson, South Carolina 29634 Clemson University Facebook Instagram Twitter Linkedin Youtube Tiktok Resources A-Z Index Campus Map CU Safety Directory Webcams Apply to Clemson