Skip to main content Temple University Explore Temple’s Schools and Colleges Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Support Temple Temple University Search Site Search Full Menu Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees President History & Traditions Temple Health News & Media Offices Public Information Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Development Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Libraries Public Health Data Science MS You are here Home Academics Degrees and Programs Public Health Data Science MS Apply Request More Info Public Health Data Science MS Accreditation Admissions Departmental Research Required Courses Scholarships & Financial Aid Master of Science in Public Health Data Science Develop the skills to become a public health data scientist and improve healthcare and population health with the Public Health Data Science MS in Temple’s College of Public Health. This 36-credit graduate program is designed to equip graduates to meet the growing demand for data scientists who have an in-depth understanding of biostatistical methods and data analytics. As a student, you will learn to conceptualize health problems and use state-of-the-art tools and techniques to analyze, design and manage health and health-related data to produce value-adding analytic insights. You will also learn how to effectively combine and communicate these insights to inform evidence-based public health decision-making. Graduates of this program will have a strong biostatistical and programming foundation, a mastery of targeted data analysis, and be prepared to apply their skills as follows. Apply appropriate statistical methods for summarizing complex public health data, such as estimation, confidence intervals and hypothesis testing. Determine distinct measurement scales and recognize the implications for the selection of appropriate statistical methods. Distinguish statistical models with respect to data structure. Identify appropriate methods for data collection issues. Interpret and present results to professional and lay audiences. Recognize the concepts of probability, commonly used statistical probability distributions and random variation. Reveal patterns by employing efficient, fluent programming skills in conjunction with statistical inference and big data. Understand how experimental design influences statistical inference and uncertainty. Utilize appropriate machine learning algorithms that incorporate uncertainty. Graduates of the program will also be prepared to analyze and utilize “big health data” or “complex study designs” to improve health outcomes while lowering costs, leveraging multiple data sources for infectious disease surveillance and other newly emerging issues. Program Format & Curriculum This 36-credit graduate degree may be completed in up to four semesters, with classes being taught on Main Campus. Sample classes you are likely to take as part of the Public Health Data Science MS include the following. Current and Emerging Issues in Public Health and Health Professions Epidemiological Research Probability and Statistics Theory Learn more about classes you are likely to take as part of the Public Health Data Science MS. Tuition & Fees In keeping with Temple’s commitment to access and affordability, this Master of Science offers a competitive level of tuition with multiple opportunities for financial support. Tuition rates are set annually by the university and are affected by multiple factors, including program degree level (undergraduate or graduate), course load (full- or part-time), in-state or out-of-state residency, and more. These tuition costs apply to the 2021–2022 academic year. Pennsylvania resident: $1,020.00 per credit Out-of-state: $1,398.00 per credit Learn more about our tuition and fees. Our Advisors The College of Public Health offers personalized advising services to students in each department. Master’s students can seek program support from a research mentor or the program director. Theresa White Senior Graduate Advisor Phone: 215-204-5105 Email: theresawhite@temple.edu Aimee Palumbo Graduate Program Director Phone: 215-204-4023 Email: aimee.palumbo@temple.edu Recai Yucel Professor and Biostatistics Core Director Phone: 215-204-6240 Email: recai.yucel@temple.edu Related Graduate Degrees Applied Biostatistics MPH Athletic Training MSAT Epidemiology MPH Epidemiology MS Epidemiology PhD Healthcare Administration MHA* Health Policy and Health Services Research PhD Health Policy and Management MPH Kinesiology MS Master of Social Work MSW Occupational Therapy MOT Social and Behavioral Sciences MPH Social and Behavioral Sciences PhD *Fox School of Business and Management Student Clubs & Organizations You can engage with peers and find leadership opportunities in student-led clubs and organizations in the College of Public Health. Learn more about student clubs and organizations. Study Away Become an informed, active global citizen and enrich your education by studying away. Explore Temple’s study abroad opportunities, including information about specific programs and visas, as well as resources on cultural adaptation, diversity matters, and health and safety. Learn more about studying away. HP-PHDS-MS Additional Program Information Visit College Site Go back to AcademicsMore in Public Health Data Science MS Accreditation Admissions Departmental Research Required Courses Scholarships & Financial Aid Apply Request More Info Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Calendar Policies Social Media TUportal TUmail Accessibility Careers at Temple Safety & Emergency Information Ethics & Compliance Privacy Statement Professional Licensure Disclosures Follow Temple University Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community. Apply Request More Info