Skip to main content MyUW Calendar Directories Libraries UW Medicine Maps UW News Helpful Links Computing/IT ISC/Workday Husky Card UW Bothell UW Tacoma UW Facebook UW Twitter University of Washington University of Washington Students Parents Faculty & Staff Alumni Quick Links Global home Global learning in our colleges and schools Global partnerships Office of Global Affairs UW Global Travel UW Study Abroad Make a gift The Husky Experience is global A Global University Menu Global home Global learning in our colleges and schools Global partnerships Office of Global Affairs UW Global Travel UW Study Abroad Make a gift Home A Global University The Husky Experience is global UW students are driven to discover – on campus and around the world. Countless faculty bring global expertise to the classroom. Students explore world problems and help develop solutions through coursework, service learning, research, internships and study abroad. Opportunities for students College of Arts & Sciences On campus, study 50 world languages or choose from the seven majors and 16 minors offered by the Jackson School of International Studies. Or explore subjects from biology to the Classics while studying abroad with expert UW faculty. College of Built Environments Discover how planning practices can respond to rapid urban growth, or help develop green infrastructure solutions through research and design with local communities and international partners. Study abroad to see your classroom learning in action. Foster School of Business With the Global Business Center, you can join the Global Social Ambassador program, study abroad or earn a Certificate of International Studies in Business. Or take your career to the next level with a global MBA or certificate. School of Dentistry Connect with the Center for Global Oral Health to learn about global collaborations in research and education and opportunities for student exchange with partner universities around the world. College of Education Learn to improve practice related to equity issues and intergroup relations with the Center for Multicultural Education. Prepare for educational leadership roles with a degree in Multicultural Education. College of Engineering Prepare for a career in global engineering through study abroad, or engage in research on global issues. Enhance your degree with a globally-focused graduate certificate. College of the Environment The environment is global, and your education should reflect it. Explore global environmental challenges through study abroad, student groups or research. Work with researchers to help address ocean acidification, climate change, changing polar regions, risk from natural hazards and more. The Graduate School Discover if a graduate degree is right for you with more than 110 options, including Second and Foreign Language Teaching. The Center for Teaching & Learning offers resources for enhancing equity in instruction and teaching multilingual students. The Information School Tackle key social and technical problems with a global impact through undergraduate research. Study abroad programs led by iSchool faculty offer the chance to explore information and technology in diverse global contexts. School of Law Get started by attending the Global Mondays speaker series. From there, connect with the Center for Law in Science & Global Health and the Barer Institute for Law & Global Human Services, or consider pursuing the Global Business Law LLM. School of Medicine Our graduates improve healthcare around the world and practice in areas of great need, like rural towns, inner cities and developing nations. Join the Global Health Interest Group to learn how you can effectively serve diverse communities around the world. School of Nursing The Center for Global Health Nursing offers study abroad, service learning and research opportunities as well as scholarships and to promote training and make sustainable improvements in health and healthcare. Scholarship support is available. School of Pharmacy Help improve the access, quality and affordability of medicines in lower income countries by connecting with the Global Medicines Program. Learn about global healthcare markets and systems by earning a Certificate in Health Economics and Outcomes Research. Evans School of Public Affairs & Governance Engage in globally-focused events and connect with the Marc Lindenberg Center to learn about international research and education opportunities. Prepare to tackle global policy issues with the Global MPA or an International Development Policy and Management Certificate. School of Public Health Public health majors engage in experiential learning through study abroad, research and internships. Consider a global health minor, and explore the many opportunities for graduate students and even high school students through the Department of Global Health. School of Social Work Engage locally with global issues through field education placements across the Seattle region. Explore social justice issues in global context through study abroad, and learn more about our Cambodia partnership. UW Bothell Engage in high-impact global learning through multi-disciplinary Collaborative Online International Learning courses, an alternative to study abroad. COIL courses are available to all three campuses. Consider a Global Studies major or the Cultural Studies masters program. UW Tacoma Explore global learning opportunities in the Global Honors Program, study abroad, and Global Urbanism and Global Studies concentrations. Work with globally-engaged faculty in small classes across academic units and attend engaging globally-focused series like Views on the Pacific and the Institute for Global Engagement. Explore our impact UW global engagement data map Student clubs 60+ Registered Student Organizations (RSOs) connect UW students to global communities, interests and passions. Explore RSOs Unite UW A campus leadership program promoting cultural exchange and understanding among domestic and international students. Learn more UW Study Abroad Want to change the world? Start with study abroad. We can help you find the program that's right for you. Go global Global Opportunities Learn about scholarships and resources for students considering study abroad. Connect with resources Ethnic & Cultural Center Engage with fellow students coming from multi-cultural perspectives and develop your skills as a leader Get involved Global Health Resource Center Helping UW students from all disciplines and years connect to learning opportunities on campus and around the world Find out more CoMotion Get hands-on experience while earning your degree, and learn how to bring your ideas to impact. Participate in Ideathons and workshops integrating design thinking and lean canvas methods. Read more Collaborative Online International Learning courses Connect with students from around the world as part of your UW coursework. Find courses Carlson Leadership & Public Service Center Participate in a community-based internship here in the Seattle region. Get started UW Libraries Connect with librarians offering diverse global expertise and explore intercultural events and exhibits. Events calendar Husky Presidential Ambassadors Leadership Institute A cross-cultural leadership development experience for domestic and international students. Learn more Undergraduate Research Program Engage in research on global issues, or design your own independent research project. Then present your research at the Undergraduate Research Symposium. Get Started University of Washington Be boundless Connect with us: Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Pinterest Accessibility Contact Us Jobs Campus Safety My UW Rules Docket Privacy Terms Newsletter © 2022 University of Washington | Seattle, WA