<form runat="server"></form>
<WebPartPages:SPWebPartManager runat="server"/>
 Skip to Main Content HBS Home About Academic Programs Alumni Faculty & Research Baker Library Giving Harvard Business Review Initiatives News Recruit Map / Directions MBA FAQ Introduce Yourself Blog Visit Apply Academic Experience Entrepreneurship Student Life Career Path Admissions Financial Aid …→ Harvard Business School→ MBA→ Student Life Student Life Activities, Government & Clubs Campus People Community Values The First-Year Experience The Second Year Experience The HBS Community → People→ Perspectives Perspectives Yung Winata MBA 2022 Video Video Home Region Washington, D.C. Undergrad Education United States Air Force Academy, BS, 2011 Previous Experience Joint Chiefs of Staff, Directorate of Intelligence, Defense Intelligence Agency, US Forces Korea 5th Reconnaissance Squadron, National Security Ag/Centarl Sec. Svc., United States Air Force Europe and Africa HBS Activities Armed Forces Alumni Association co-president, Consulting Club, Consulting for Impact Club, Social Enterprise Club, Women’s Student Association, Wine and Cuisine Society “I want to create opportunities and foster conditions that empower underserved communities.” Why did you choose this path at this point in time? It took a while to realize I can continue a career of service out of the uniform. At the time, I had served in the military for almost a decade, and it felt like a now or never opportunity to choose something completely new that would push me outside of my comfort zone. I believed an MBA would expose me to different perspectives on global, social, and business issues and provide a tool kit for me to be a plug and play leader in any industry. That belief has been 1000% validated since coming to HBS. Coming to HBS is like... ...being on an airplane (probably a clichéd analogy for an Air Force Veteran). The take-off can be a bit unsteady and there is a steep climb. But the climb levels out before you know it. You settle into your seat and you are rewarded with a much broader aperture to view the world. Being part of the HBS community is like... ...finding a second family. People here are brilliant, hilarious, unafraid, kind, and incredibly inspiring. Everyone is always so willing to support each other, to celebrate successes or to offer mentorship during challenges. It is a community you can count on. As a kid, what did you want to be when you grew up? I used to make dresses for my dolls with fabric from my own clothes. I thought I was destined to be a fashion designer. Instead, I chose the anthesis of that and joined the military where I wore the same outfit every day! What is your favorite childhood memory? I’ll never forget going to Disneyland for the first time! I had just arrived in America and this was our first big family trip. In my 11-year-old mind, I equated the magic of Disneyland with the magic of being in America. And why aren’t all firework shows synchronized with music?! Who is one person from your life that you admire the most today? My mother. Like so many hard-working immigrants in search of a better life for their families, she arrived in this country with no money and no one to turn to for help. She sacrificed for the limitless opportunities I have today and is the definition of resilience. What’s the best thing about your home town? This is always such a tricky question for me. I have moved around so much in my life that I don’t really have a “home-town”. On the upside, moving has been a gift of a lifetime. It has allowed me to see new places, make new connections, and begin new adventures. It is in this constant moving and travelling where I feel the most at home today. Topics Military Home Region Washington, D.C. Undergrad Education United States Air Force Academy, BS, 2011 Previous Experience Joint Chiefs of Staff, Directorate of Intelligence, Defense Intelligence Agency, US Forces Korea 5th Reconnaissance Squadron, National Security Ag/Centarl Sec. Svc., United States Air Force Europe and Africa HBS Activities Armed Forces Alumni Association co-president, Consulting Club, Consulting for Impact Club, Social Enterprise Club, Women’s Student Association, Wine and Cuisine Society Topics Military ǁ MBA Admissions Harvard Business School Spangler Welcome Center (Spangler 107) Boston, MA 02163 Phone: 1.617.495.6128 Email: admissions@hbs.edu →Map & Directions →More Contact Information Make a Gift Site Map Jobs Harvard University Trademarks Policies Digital Accessibility Copyright © President & Fellows of Harvard College