Skip to main content Skip to main content Prospective Students Current Students Alumni More Faculty/Staff News Media Parents Skip to main content Apply Apply Give Give Follow Us Follow Us Twitter Follow Us Facebook Follow Us Instagram Follow Us LinkedIn Follow Us YouTube Follow Us Social Stream Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. Navigate Search Skip to main content Residence Life & Student Housing (RLSH) About Apply for Housing Apply for Housing SMU Housing Portal Rate and Fees Living On Campus Living On Campus Residential Commons Upper-Division Housing Apartments Policies Get Involved Get Involved Dallas Community Departments Faculty Graduate Students Staff Undergraduate Students Make A Request ☰ RLSH Get Involved Undergraduate Students Undergraduate Students An important part of the college experience happens outside of the classroom, and SMU has no shortage of involvement opportunities, whether they be focused on service, leadership, or academics on campus. Historically, the on-campus and Residential Commons leadership has played an integral part in maintaining the positive aspects of recognized SMU traditions. These include: competitive intramural teams, academic convocation, Commons-specific experiences, weekly Faculty-in-Residence traditions, Mustang Football, and more! Previous Next pause play hide show SMU strongly encourages undergraduate students to participate in leadership opportunities within your Residential Commons, as well as other areas of Residence Life & Student Housing (RLSH). Discover your fit within one of these on-campus leadership opportunities. Engage Dallas Engage Dallas is a place-based community engagement initiative via SMU’s Residential Commons to address community needs focusing on south and west Dallas. The initiative is a long-term, university-wide commitment led by students to partner with local residents, organizations, and other leaders to positively impact the community. There is equal emphasis on campus and community impact stemming from the initiative. Think big and do good today. Honors Mentors From the beginning of the school year, Honors Mentors take an active role in welcoming the honors residents in their Residential Commons. They continue to meet informally with the honors students, serve as a resource, and encourage their participation in their Residential Commons and other University Honors Program events. Learn more and connect with your Honors Mentor. Housing Unification Board The SMU Housing Unification Board (HUB) is an organization that serves and unites students who live on campus. HUB comprises seven student directors plus one RA liaison. HUB serves all students who live on the SMU campus to provide an experience unlike any other college or university. Learn more about the leadership possibilities in HUB. Peer Academic Leaders Peer Academic Leaders (PALs) are a diverse group of undergraduate students with a common goal to help students better understand the University curriculum, utilize academic resources, and navigate academic challenges. Under the direction of the University Advising Center, PALs work directly with students in their residential community, empowering them to take ownership of their collegiate careers through mentorship and educational programming. Find your PAL in your residential community. Peer Chaplain Peer Chaplains provide a listening presence to fellow students struggling with academic pressure, relationships, homesickness or other stressors through programming, 1-1 meetings, and small group settings. Supervised by the Office of the Chaplin and Religious Life, the aim of the Peer Chaplain is to help connect a peer’s personal experience to their purpose in life so that they find meaning not only in what they do but in who they are. Research Team The Research Team fosters interdisciplinary inquiry through intensive efforts to break down barriers and advance interdisciplinary research related to student success and learning. The Research Team comprises faculty, staff, and students—both undergraduate and graduate—from all disciplines who produce original empirical research related to residential life and students. The Research Team's findings aid in the improvement of University policies, practices, and programs to support residential student success and to positively contribute to the field of higher education. Learn more about the current project, insights, or apply to join. Residence Life and Student Housing Ambassadors The primary responsibility of RLSH Ambassadors is to work with the central office staff in Boaz Commons to assist in greeting guests, answering housing questions, both in-person and on the phone, and supporting the recruitment of prospective students. This one-of-a-kind customer service position is a unique way to serve your fellow and future Mustangs. Learn more about this student leadership role or apply via SMU's Handshake when positions are available. Resident Assistants The primary goal of the Resident Assistant (RA) position is the development of an environment conducive to the academic and personal growth of residential students. RAs are student leaders who live in our residential communities and serve as role models, peer counselors, resources, advocates, educators, community standard upholders, and community builders for residents. RAs also assist with the safety and well-being of students, as well as the planning and implementation of social/educational engagements that expand the student experience outside the classroom. RLSH typically begins seeking applications in late fall. Ask your RCD for more information and learn more about this student leadership position. Residential Commons and Community Councils Each Residential Commons and residential community at SMU has a designated group of student leaders who serve as a representative body for the residents in respective buildings, governed by HUB. Each council works hard throughout the year to plan programs to engage residents, make internal building improvements, and look after the general welfare of residents in their community. Being a student leader on council is a great opportunity to develop your personal leadership skills and, in general, a great way to get involved. Ask your RCD for more information about getting involved. Student Wellness Champions Student Wellness Champions are a diverse group of students trained to educate their Residential Commons and campus community about college lifestyle and wellness issues in a positive, interactive, fun, and nonjudgmental manner. In this program, students serve as liaisons for the Office for Community Health Promotion and the Dr. Bob Smith Health Center and act as health leaders on campus. Student Wellness Champions are given the opportunity to specialize in a health area of their choice: nutrition, mental health, physical activity, stress management, time management, sleep, resiliency, alcohol and drug prevention, sexual health, violence prevention, and healthy relationships. Learn more about the Student Wellness Champion program. Apply Visit School Cox School of Business Dedman College of Humanities and Sciences Dedman School of Law Lyle School of Engineering Meadows School of the Arts Moody School of Graduate and Advanced Studies Perkins School of Theology Simmons School of Education and Human Development Explore SMU Magazine Academic Calendar Events Calendar Guildhall Continuing and Professional Education Athletics Employment at SMU Campus Reporting a Bias Incident Report Sexual Misconduct Emergency Preparedness Student Life George W. Bush Presidential Center SMU Libraries Meadows Museum Tate Lecture Series Contact Us Maps and Directions Legal Disclosures © Southern Methodist University, PO Box 750100, Dallas, TX 75275 twitter facebook instagram linkedin youtube share