Georgetown University Open Search Form Who We Are The Whole Person Our Catholic & Jesuit Heritage Our History Student Stories Faculty Stories Alumni Stories Campus & City Living in DC Opportunities Getting Around Service & Action Campus Life Housing On-Campus Dining Clubs & Organizations Arts & Culture Community & Diversity Student Life Blog Wellness & Safety Sports & Fitness Health Center Safety & Emergency Preparedness Athletics External Link Academic Life Restless Inquiry Our Schools Areas of Study Study Abroad Research Centers and Programs Global Initiatives External Link Library System Admissions & Aid Undergraduate Admissions External Link Graduate Admissions Financial Aid External Link Commitment to Access News Events Giving Alumni Info For Students Faculty Staff/AAP Alumni Parents Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Content Skip to Footer News Events Giving Alumni Info For Students Faculty Staff/AAP Alumni Parents Georgetown University Who We Are The Whole Person Our Catholic & Jesuit Heritage Our History Student Stories Faculty Stories Alumni Stories Campus & City Living in DC Opportunities Getting Around Service & Action Campus Life Housing On-Campus Dining Clubs & Organizations Arts & Culture Community & Diversity Student Life Blog Wellness & Safety Sports & Fitness Health Center Safety & Emergency Preparedness Athletics External Link Academic Life Restless Inquiry Our Schools Areas of Study Study Abroad Research Centers and Programs Global Initiatives External Link Library System Admissions & Aid Undergraduate Admissions External Link Graduate Admissions Financial Aid External Link Commitment to Access Open Search Form Georgetown University Home Academic Life Academic Life We live at the intersection of teaching and doing, where learning is more than the transmission of knowledge, it is an act of collaboration and practice. Under the mentorship of our distinguished faculty, you’ll go beyond the information to not just learn about your field, but also to learn your field’s way of thinking. Through lectures, small group projects, independent studies, office hours, internships and more, you’ll leave Georgetown with the intellectual skills of perception, analysis, interpretation and expression. 11:1 Students:Professors Class-size ratio encourages open dialogue and inquiry 100 Prestigious scholarships & fellowships awarded each year to undergraduates and recent alumni 91% Of 2018 graduates employed or continuing education post-graduation “I have the ability to explore what I am interested and passionate in, which doesn’t necessarily follow directly what I am studying in my major.” Emily’s Story “The emphasis upon a well-rounded liberal arts education … has given me the opportunity to delve into diverse course offerings.” Susu’s Story “As a 24-year-old Marine Corps Infantryman, covered in tattoos, with a breadth of unique experiences, I was the epitome of a “non-traditional student.” Aside from the vast opportunities that existed in the SFS, it was the community that assured me, despite my non-traditional background, that I would belong too.” Diego’s Story Previous Story Next Story Play Youtube Video Explore the intersection of technology and society. Learn about environmental justice. Take the famous Problem of God course. Our innovative courses inspire and invite you to help solve some of today’s most pressing local, national and global issues. Find Your Area of Study Play Youtube Video Design Your Future Create a new app for an underserved population. Improve services for parents and children or create a groundbreaking new health device. We provide the intellectual depth, innovation and social justice framework so you can help make a better world. Discover the Venture Lab Your Academic Life All News New Building to Expand Georgetown’s Capitol Hill Presence, Academic Opportunities Improving Way U.S. Treats Refugees Goal of Truman Scholarship Winner Mena Mohamed (SFS’20), who hopes to one day help improve America’s refugee system, is one of 62 undergraduates selected from 199 finalists today as 2019 Truman Scholars. Problem of God at 50: Georgetown’s Beloved Signature Course Celebrates Golden Anniversary Tens of thousands of students have been influenced by Georgetown’s signature course, The Problem of God, which celebrates its 50th anniversary this year. Explore More Restless Inquiry Academic Support Study Abroad Contact Us Directory Visit Maps About Academic Calendar Careers Media Resources FacebookFacebook TwitterTwitter InstagramInstagram LinkedInLinkedIn YouTubeYouTube Georgetown University 37th and O Streets, N.W. Washington, D.C. 20057 P. 202-687-0100 Georgetown University Privacy Policy Copyright Web Accessibility Notice of Non-Discrimination © 2022 Georgetown University Search Georgetown Search Close the Search Dialog