Skip to main content MyUW Calendar Directories Libraries UW Medicine Maps UW News Helpful Links Computing/IT ISC/Workday Husky Card UW Bothell UW Tacoma UW Facebook UW Twitter University of Washington University of Washington Students Parents Faculty & Staff Alumni Quick Links Financial Aid Home Getting started Eligibility How need is determined Expected family contribution Net price calculator Student budgets Husky Promise Applying for aid Key dates and deadlines Application process Award process Maintain eligibility Summer quarter Types of aid Scholarships Grants Work Study Loans Childcare Assistance Program Veterans Benefits Emergency aid Emergency Food Assistance Other assistance Receiving aid Disbursement Appeals and special circumstances Request changes to your award Satisfactory academic progress Forms & resources Forms Consumer Information Glossary of Terms for Award Notifications Loan repayment Tax benefits Withdrawal and refund Financial aid code of conduct Money management Emergency Relief Fund Higher Education Emergency Relief Fund III Washington Emergency Relief Grant Higher Education Emergency Relief Fund II CARES Act FAQs Processing and Response Timelines Contact us My Financial Aid Loans Menu Financial Aid Home Getting started Eligibility How need is determined Expected family contribution Net price calculator Student budgets Husky Promise Applying for aid Key dates and deadlines Application process Award process Maintain eligibility Summer quarter Types of aid Scholarships Grants Work Study Loans Childcare Assistance Program Veterans Benefits Emergency aid Emergency Food Assistance Other assistance Receiving aid Disbursement Appeals and special circumstances Request changes to your award Satisfactory academic progress Forms & resources Forms Consumer Information Glossary of Terms for Award Notifications Loan repayment Tax benefits Withdrawal and refund Financial aid code of conduct Money management Emergency Relief Fund Higher Education Emergency Relief Fund III Washington Emergency Relief Grant Higher Education Emergency Relief Fund II CARES Act FAQs Processing and Response Timelines Contact us My Financial Aid Home Student Financial Aid Types of aid Loans Types of aid Home Types of aid Scholarships Undergraduate Scholarships Grants Undergraduate grants Graduate and professional grants TEACH Grant Work Study Loans Completing paperwork for loans Federal loans Student loans program chart Parent (PLUS) loans Private loans Short-term loans Childcare Assistance Program Application Process Finding Childcare Providers Forms and Resources Veterans Benefits Other assistance Student Loans are financial obligations that must be repaid. Pay careful attention to the terms and conditions of any loan you accept to help pay for school. Do not borrow more than you need or can repay comfortably after leaving school. In 2020-21, the percent of undergraduates with debt at graduation was 34%. These students graduated with an average cumulative loan debt of $20,793. Our 2018 cohort default rate (CDR) for student loans is 2.1%, well below the national average CDR rate of 7.3%. A comparison of various loans may be found on the Student Loans Program Chart. Most student loans have the following characteristics: They are interest-free while you are in school on at least a half-time basis and during the grace period (six to nine months after leaving school). Interest begins to accrue during the repayment period (Exception: Federal Direct Unsubsidized Stafford/Ford Loan and the Federal Direct PLUS Loan, on which interest begins to accrue when the loan is disbursed). Repayment on student loans may be deferred temporarily if you return to school half-time or join the Armed Service, Peace Corps, VISTA, comparable volunteer organizations, or become a law enforcement officer. Some loans offer cancellation provisions based on public service or teaching in low-income service areas. You may have up to 10 years to repay the loan, depending on the total amount borrowed or less than 10 years, if by making minimum payments your loan is paid off sooner. The Federal Direct Stafford/Ford Loan and Federal Direct Unsubsidized Stafford/Ford Loan have other repayment options, which may allow you a more flexible time period for repayment. Title IV federal student loans are reported to the National Student Loan Data System (NSLDS) and will be accessible by federal agencies and institutions determined to be authorized users of the data system to ensure proper administration of the loans. Student borrowers can access their NSLDS account as well to track their educational loan records. Completing loan paperwork Learn more Federal loans Learn more Student loans program chart Learn more Parent loans Learn more Private loans Learn more Short-term loans Learn more Home Types of aid Scholarships Undergraduate Scholarships Grants Undergraduate grants Graduate and professional grants TEACH Grant Work Study Loans Completing paperwork for loans Federal loans Student loans program chart Parent (PLUS) loans Private loans Short-term loans Childcare Assistance Program Application Process Finding Childcare Providers Forms and Resources Veterans Benefits Other assistance Resources Applying for Financial Aid Parent Plus Loan New Borrowers of Federal Student Loans Contact us Send us a message Visit Contact us for office location, directions and mailing address. Federal School Code Our Title IV federal school code is 003798. This code is used for Seattle, Bothell and Tacoma campuses. About us Our mission is to provide educational access and opportunity for all students. We promote participation in higher education by providing programs of assistance to help bridge the gap between the cost of attending the University and the family’s own resources. We believe students from all economic backgrounds should have the opportunity to attend the University of Washington. Finances should not be a barrier to getting a world-class education. University of Washington Be boundless Connect with us: Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Pinterest Accessibility Contact Us Jobs Campus Safety My UW Rules Docket Privacy Terms Newsletter © 2022 University of Washington | Seattle, WA