Skip to content Columbia University Irving Medical Center Find People Events Faculty and Staff Resources Give Now Search About Us About Us Facts and Figures Explore CUIMC Events Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion at CUIMC Community Development and Alumni Explore CUIMC Leadership and Administration A-Z Listing Affiliated Hospitals Campus Map and Directions Campus Resources Contact CUIMC Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion At CUIMC, we are committed to continuous improvement in providing culturally inclusive medical education and clinical care. Learn About Our Commitment Education Education Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons Mailman School of Public Health School of Nursing College of Dental Medicine VP&S Columbia Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons is dedicated to developing the next generation of leaders in medicine Learn About Our Academic Programs Research Research The Louisa Gross Horwitz Prize Columbia Technology Ventures Research Administration Columbia Clinical Innovation Lab Patient Care Patient Care ColumbiaDoctors Children's Health Columbia Primary Care Herbert Irving Comprehensive Cancer Center ColumbiaDoctors Dentistry Digital Health Services at Columbia Find a Doctor Search for a provider by specialty, expertise, location and insurance. Schedule an appointment online. Find a Doctor News News For the Media Share Your News CUIMC Update CUIMC Celebrates Columbia Medicine Read the latest news stories about CUIMC faculty, research, and events Explore Our News COVID-19 Resources for CUIMC COVID-19 Resources for CUIMC COVID-19 Information for Patients COVID-19 Campus Safety for Employees and Students COVID-19 Vaccine Information For CUIMC Employees and Students COVID-19 Information and Resources for Clinical Staff COVID-19 Vaccine Information Learn about COVID-19 vaccine availability and requirements for employees and students at CUIMC Get the Latest Information Pediatrics Topics Campus News Research Medical School Public Health Cancer Mental Health Infectious Diseases Neurology Neuroscience Education Heart Health Pediatrics View All Topics Search All News Keywords News Top Stories Hepatitis Outbreak Among Kids: What Parents Should Know Health authorities around the world are investigating rare cases of children with severe hepatitis of unknown cause. Mercedes Martinez, MD, explains. Topic Campus News What to do while waiting for COVID vaccines for kids under 5 It’s still important to protect your children and the people around them to prevent hospitalization and COVID’s worst outcomes. Topic Public Health How Parents Can Manage the Baby Formula Shortage Columbia pediatrician Lauren Levine shares her insights on resources to try, ways to plan, and what never to do. How to teach a child to swallow a pill The advanced form of drinking required to swallow a pill is a skill to acquire like any other. Topic General Medicine Latest News Vaccination Rates Climb When Records Are Easy To Access May 10, 2016 Immunization rates rise when city vaccination records are shared with providers via electronic health records, a new study finds. Topic Public Health GI Problems in Autism May Originate in Genes, Study Suggests April 25, 2016 For some types of autism, gastrointestinal problems may originate from the same genetic changes that lead to the behavioral and social characteristics of the condition. Topic Gastroenterology Less-Invasive Surgical Technique Puts 11-Year-Old with CP Back on the Court February 24, 2016 Columbia neurosurgeon uses less-invasive technique to reduce spasticity in children with cerebral palsy. Topic General Medicine A Systematic Study of Childhood Obesity Risk Factors and Interventions February 23, 2016 Researchers conducted a systematic review of studies investigating both maternal and infant risk factors for childhood obesity. Topic Obesity Vaccination Exemptions: Research Finds Shifting Political Climate February 10, 2016 Mailman School of Public Health researchers found that although vaccination policy changes remain controversial, alternatives exist to eliminate nonmedical exemptions by making them harder to obtain. Topic Public Health Genome Study Finds Link Between Congenital Heart and Brain Disorders December 9, 2015 P&S researcher Wendy Chung and colleagues find genetic mutations that explain why many children with congenital heart disease also have neurodevelopmental disorders. Topic Precision Medicine Flame Retardant Exposure May Lead to Attention Problems in Children October 7, 2015 Mailman researchers examine the effects of prenatal exposure to PBDEs, a chemical found in common flame retardants, on children's development. Topic Public Health Columbia Researchers Developing Dynamic Braces for Kids with Scoliosis September 18, 2015 Columbia pediatric orthopedic surgeon David P. Roye is part of a team that has designed a flexible brace with sensors to help its users with everyday activities. Topic Research Magnet Replaces the Scalpel for Treating Kids with Early-Onset Scoliosis January 30, 2015 Children with early-onset scoliosis can be treated with a magnetic device that lengthens growing rods without twice-a-year surgery. Text Message Reminders Increase Second Dose of Flu Vaccinations in Children January 6, 2015 Study by Melissa Stockwell, MD, MPH, found that text message reminders helped increase young children's likelihood of receiving second dose of flu vaccine. Topic Public Health Pages first previous … 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 … next last Columbia University Irving Medical Center NewYork-Presbyterian About Us Careers News Education Patient Care Research Resources at CUIMC Columbia University Irving Medical Center 630 West 168th Street New York, NY 10032 United States Follow Us Facebook Twitter YouTube LinkedIn Instagram Back to top