Brown University Quick Exit General Health Physical Health Acne Asthma Breast Exams Bronchitis Colds Concussion Headaches Meningitis Mononucleosis Sleep Seasonal Flu Sun Safety and Skin Cancer Stomach Flu Testicular Self-Exams Travel and Health Yeast Infection Emotional Wellbeing Mindfulness Sleep Stress Self-Care Techniques for Stress Relief Wellness on Campus Social Wellbeing Community, Connection and Coping: Remote Resources Consent Economic Stress Roommate Relationships Unlearning Toxic Masculinity Reproductive Health Abortion Adoption Amenorrhea Bacterial Vaginosis Colposcopy Erectile Dysfunction Pregnancy Gender Care GYN Visits HPV Vaccine Menstruation Pelvic Inflammatory Disease Pregnancy Tests Premature Ejaculation Prenatal Care Testicular Self-Exams Accessing Care Gender Care GYN Visits LGBTQ Health Care at Health Services Men's Health Exams Pregnancy Tests STI Testing Options Resources and Links Nutrition & Eating Concerns Eating Well at Brown Being a Vegetarian Dietary Guidelines Eating Off Meal Plan Meal Plan And Dining Information Supplements Eating Concerns and Body Image Body Image Concerns Eating Concerns Help at Brown Sports Nutrition Relative Energy Deficiency in Sport (RED-S) Sports Nutrition Accessing Care Help at Brown Worried about a Friend Sexual Health Sex 101 SHAG! Erectile Dysfunction Orgasm Premature Ejaculation Sex and Alcohol Sex Toys Sexually Explicit Media Contraception Birth Control Pills Cervical Cap Condoms Depo-Provera Emergency Contraception Fertility Awareness Method Implant Internal Condoms IUD Ortho Evra (The Patch) Ring Spermicides and Lubricants The Recent Election & Contraception Access Withdrawal (Pull Out Method) Reproductive Health Abortion Adoption Amenorrhea Colposcopy Erectile Dysfunction Pregnancy GYN Visits HPV Vaccine Menstruation Pelvic Inflammatory Disease Pregnancy Tests Prenatal Care Testicular Self-Exams Yeast Infection Safer Sex Ship n SHAG! Sexual Health and Safer Sex During Covid-19 Abstinence Condoms Dental Dams Internal Condoms Post Exposure Prophylaxis (PEP) Pre Exposure Prophylaxis (PrEP) Safer Sex Withdrawal (Pull Out Method) STIs AIDS/HIV Bacterial Vaginosis Chlamydia Colposcopy Gonorrhea Hepatitis B Herpes HPV and Genital Warts HPV Vaccine Molluscum Contagiosum Oral Sex and STIs Pelvic Inflammatory Disease Pubic Lice and Scabies Sexually Transmitted Infections Syphilis Talking with a Partner STI Testing Options Trichomoniasis Urinary Tract Infections Yeast Infection Sexual Assault & Dating Violence Get Help Sexual Assault Response Line SHARE Advocates Dating Violence First Five Days After an Assault Male Survivors Sexual Violence and Assault Sexual Harassment Stalking Help a Friend SHARE Advocates How to Help a Friend Get Involved in Prevention Interrupting the Red Zone: How we keep each other safe Culture of Respect Collective Sexual Assault Peer Education (SAPE) Help Prevent Sexual Assault Unlearning Toxic Masculinity Relationships and Communication Consent Dating Violence Learn More Common Reactions to Sexual Violence and Assault Predatory Drugs Sexual Misconduct and Title IX Sexual Violence: Key Terms Resources and Links Alcohol & Other Drugs Alcohol Alcohol and Your Body Recognizing a Problem Risks and Realities Sex and Alcohol Ways to Cut Down Other Drugs Caffeine Cocaine Ecstasy Energy Drinks GHB Inhalants Ketamine LSD Marijuana Methamphetamine Predatory Drugs Psilocybin (Mushrooms) Rohypnol Tobacco Smokeless Tobacco Smoking Cessation Tobacco Learn More Law and Policy Summary Educational Links Accessing Care Resources at Brown Off Campus Resources Calling EMS How to Help a Friend Quit Smoking How to Talk to a Friend about Drinking or Drug Use Google Tag Manager Reproductive Health Colposcopy What is colposcopy? Colposcopy is a method of taking a closer look at the cervix, which is the opening to your uterus at the top of the vagina. The instrument used is called a colposcope, which resembles a microscope. It can magnify approximately 10 times the normal size. Your medical provider may also use the scope to take a sample of tissue. How is colposcopy performed? Most often colposcopy is performed in a clinic or office setting by a physician and a specially trained nurse practitioner or physician assistant. The procedure is done on a regular gyn exam table. A speculum is inserted, allowing the cervix to come into view. The cervix is washed with a vinegar-like solution. Then they will look at your cervix using a colposcope, a kind of microscope. The colposcope is positioned outside the vaginal opening and never directly touches the body. This exam feels the same as a routine gyn exam. If the provider sees something that doesn't look normal, they will perform a biopsy, or sampling of tissue, at the same time. During a biopsy, some people report no or little sensation, while for others there is mild to moderate cramping or a sharp pinch. No anesthesia is required, but ibuprofen is often given prior to the procedure to help with cramping. When is it recommended? Colposcopy is generally recommended for people who have had an abnormal pap smear. Most commonly, a diagnosis of atypical cells on the cervix has been made, requiring a closer look at the cervix. Persistent high risk types of HPV on the cervix may also require colposcopy. It is also suggested if you were exposed to DES as a screening test or to follow those people who show DES-related changes. Occasionally, during a pelvic examination an irregularity in the cervix or vaginal wall is noted that requires colposcopic examination. Any condition that required colposcopic examination in the past may call for a follow-up examination at future intervals suggested by your provider. It is also possible that your Pap smears will be done more frequently over the next year or more to ensure that your problem remains under control. How do I prepare for colposcopy? The procedure takes about 15 minutes to perform and does not require admission to a hospital. It is scheduled between menstrual periods. Do not douche or use any vaginal or contraceptive creams, jellies, or foam for at least 24 hours prior to your appointment. If you have an obvious vaginal infection with abnormal discharge, it should be evaluated and treated before your appointment. What are the risks of colposcopy? Very low rate of infection Bleeding Possible discomfort similar to menstrual cramps How do I take care of myself after the procedure? Your medical provider may have applied a medication to the biopsy site(s) to stop any bleeding. Do not be alarmed by a brownish-black vaginal discharge. This is due to the medication and is to be expected. It may last up to 1 week. It is common to have some spotting similar to the spotting that occurs during the last 2 days of your menstrual period. This discharge is from the biopsy site(s) and will stop when healing is complete (usually within 4 to 7 days). Call your medical provider if the following occurs: Bleeding greater than one sanitary napkin/hour Spotting longer than 7 days Bright red bleeding Temperature greater than 100 degrees F To allow the cervix to heal: No sexual activity or douching while spotting or as directed by the gyn specialist. When healing is complete, sexual activity may be resumed with preferred method of STI prevention and/or birth control. If you take birth control pills, continue your daily schedule without interruption during this healing process. Use sanitary pads rather than tampons for any spotting or if your menstrual period should begin during the healing process (4 to 7 days). Can I get a colposcopy at Health Services? Health Services does not offer colposcopy services. If you need a colposcopy, your Health Services medical provider will refer you to a local GYN office for the procedure. Related Links Medline PLUS About BWell: Quick Links About Us Staff Confidential Appointments Sexual Assault Response Line Workshops Peer Education Programs Health Empowerment Tools PHONE NUMBERS 401.863-2794 Health Promotion 401.863-3953 Health Services 401.863-6000 Sexual Assault Response Line 401.863-4111 EMS 401.863-3476 Counseling & Psychological Services 401.863-4111 DPS Make an Appointment What is Peer Education? Learn about BWell's Peer Education Programs! Get involved in empowerment and prevention work at Brown. Get Involved Meet Our Staff About Us Make an Appointment Brown University BWell Health Promotion Health and Wellness Brown University Box 1928 450 Brook Street Providence, Rhode Island, 02912 Phone 401-863-2794 Fax 401-863-7953 [email protected] © 2022 Brown University Connect: [email protected] Related Offices Brown EMS Counseling and Psychological Services Health Services Social Media BWell on Facebook SHAG on Facebook BURP on Facebook Health Services on Facebook