HOME Make a Gift Clemson Home Students Faculty/Staff Alumni Partners A-Z Index Calendar Campus Maps CU Safety Phonebook Webcams Make a Gift Toggle navigation HOME DIVISIONS Medical Services Counseling and Psychological Services (CAPS) Healthy Campus HEALTH TOPICS ADHD Alcohol and Other Drugs Antibiotics Body Image Building Social Connections Fitness Interpersonal Violence Mental Health Nutrition Social Media and Internet Use Sexual Health Sleep Spring Break Safety Stress Suicide Sustainibility Tobacco Wellness When to See a Provider CONTACT ABOUT POLICIES & RECORDS Advance Directives Diversity Eligibility Health Fee Privacy Practice Records & Confidentiality Rights & Responsibilities Attention Deficit/Hyperactivity Disorder (ADHD) Documentation What is attention deficit/hyperactivity disorder, or ADHD? The DSM-5TM defines ADHD as a persistent pattern of inattention and/or hyperactivity-impulsivity that interferes with functioning or development, has symptoms presenting in two or more settings (e.g. at home, school or work; with friends or relatives; in other activities), and negatively impacts social, academic or occupational functioning. Several symptoms must have been present before age 12 years. ADHD can make it hard for a student to do well in school even though the student is capable of handling the material. ADHD can be treated. Doctors and counselors at Student Health Services can help. What are the symptoms of ADHD? ADHD has many symptoms. At first, some symptoms may look like normal behaviors for a child, but ADHD makes them much worse and occur more often. Children with ADHD have at least six symptoms that start in the first 12 years of their lives; adults may be diagnosed with five symptoms when the behaviors persist more than six months. College students with ADHD may do the following: Get distracted easily and forget things often Switch too quickly from one activity to the next Have trouble with directions Daydream too much Have trouble initiating and/or finishing tasks like homework or chores Lose personal items often Fidget and squirm a lot Talk nonstop and interrupt people Be very impatient Blurt out inappropriate comments Have trouble controlling their emotions How are students able to cope with ADHD? Students with ADHD can function more effectively with treatment. There are three basic types of treatment. Medication – Several medications can help. The most common types are called stimulants. Medications help one to focus, learn and stay calm. Sometimes medications cause side effects, such as sleep problems or stomachaches. Students may need to try a few medications to see which one works best. It’s important that a doctor closely monitors a student while taking medication. Counseling – There are different kinds of therapy. Behavioral therapy can help teach students to control their behavior so they can do better inside the classroom and outside the classroom. Medication and counseling combined – Many students benefit from both medication and counseling. Academic accommodations may also help in controlling the impact of ADHD. Contact Student Accessibility Services at 864-656-6848 to schedule an appointment with a disability specialist to discuss your concerns. ADHD Medication Refills Discuss with your provider in advance your medication needs during breaks, summer and post-graduation. Make an Appointment ADHD Student Resources Requirements for ADHD Documentation ADHD Assessment Resources/Listings Controlled Medication Contract National Institutes of Health ADHD Educational Institute. (n.d.). Retrieved from URL. CONTACT DIVISION OF STUDENT AFFAIRS 202 Sikes Hall, Clemson, SC Copyright 2020 Webmaster