Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. University Honors Program UHP right arrow down arrow About UHP right arrow down arrow Inclusive Excellence Competencies right arrow down arrow Community Engagement Creativity Global Studies Leadership Research News Directions Contact Us right arrow down arrow Raj Mehta Debbie Brawn Marcell Crawford Bria Howard Bene Khoury Neil Choudhury Ashley Webber Kyle Key Jason Autry Tricia Yee Claire Minton Yale Miller Shawna Obregon Danny Hagedorn Vikki Kowalczyk Current UHP Students right arrow down arrow UHP Student Database UHP Framework & Benefits Requirements Honors Experiences right arrow down arrow Honors Seminars right arrow down arrow Fall 2022 Honors Seminars Spring 2023 Honors Seminars Summer 2022 Honors Seminars Pre-Approved Experiences Self-Designed Experiences Study Abroad and Study Tours International Travel Biomedical Research and Mentoring Program right arrow down arrow RaMP Publications RaMP Project Descriptions How to Apply Matching and Participation Frequently Asked Questions Tips and Testimonials UHP Discover right arrow down arrow Students: Learn More Faculty: Get Involved 2022 UHP Discover Projects Past Honors Seminars right arrow down arrow Summer 2021 Seminars Fall 2021 Honors Seminars Spring 2022 Honors Seminars Summer 2022 Honors Seminars Welcome Experience Leaders UHP Ambassador Leadership Team Grants for Honors Experiences Learning Portfolios right arrow down arrow Reflection Structure and Content Showcase Guide Protected Information Featured Portfolios Year-in-Review Get Involved right arrow down arrow UHP Ambassadors right arrow down arrow Meet the Team Ambassador Application Honor Societies First Year in UHP right arrow down arrow Welcome Experience right arrow down arrow Welcome Experience Registration HNRS 1010: Gateway to the UHP Advising right arrow down arrow Scheduling Advising Meetings via My Bearcat Network Presidential Leadership Medal of Excellence Prospective Students right arrow down arrow High School Students Current UC Students right arrow down arrow Join our Outreach List and Teams University Honors Application Transfer Students University Honors Housing Faculty and Campus Partners right arrow down arrow Honors Seminar Call for Proposals right arrow down arrow Guidelines, Pedagogy and Structure Study Tour Guidelines Submission Process Required Documents Proposal Form Review and Notification Funding Resources Seminar Development Workshops Creating and Ordering Honors Seminars Home » Campus Life » University Honors Program » Prospective Students » Current UC Students Set Navigation title in component High School Students Current UC Students Join our Outreach List and Teams University Honors Application Transfer Students University Honors Housing Current UC Students Are you a UC undergraduate student motivated to excel both in and out of the classroom? Are you looking to use your gifts and talents to explore your passions and make a difference on campus, in your local communities, or around the world? Do you want to be part of an innovative and inclusive community of driven student leaders with unique access to inspiring faculty and staff? If you've answered yes to any of those questions, then the University Honors Program is the place for you. We offer a number of unique benefits and exclusive opportunities to enable students to maximize on their undergraduate experiences. By graduation, we help students become global citizen scholars who lead innovative efforts to solving the world's complex problems. All students will be expected to complete all the requirements of all UHP students, which includes five experiences by graduation. While some opportunities in college prior to acceptance may count retroactively toward those five required experiences, at least one experience must be completed after conclusion of the Gateway to University Honors course. As a result, most successful candidates will apply during their first or second year. Apply for University Honors The application period for Spring 2022 admission has passed. The next opportunity for current UC students to join University Honors will be Fall 2022. Applications usually open in late September. We invite you to join our outreach list to get email notifications when we re-open the process next year. Join our Outreach List Stay informed on the Fall 2022 application process by completing the outreach survey. Update emails will start in summer 2022. Fall 2022 Application Timeline Fall 2022 Application Timeline Event Date Time Additional Information Transition Application Opens late Sept Available on the UHP website Student Interest Panels Oct-Nov Transition Application Closes Nov 27 11:59pm Applications are now closed. Fall Semester GPA Checks Dec 15 Must have 3.2 overall Decisions Announced Dec 16 Decisions sent by email Eligibility for Fall 2022 Process Current UC undergraduate, baccalaureate student Overall UC GPA of 3.2 after Fall 2022 Graduating Spring 2024 or later Application Process Details The transition application process is for current UC undergraduate students. Students who are transferring to UC from another university and are interested in applying to the UHP should apply through the transfer process. By completing the online application, you are authorizing UHP staff to review your UC academic record. This review will be to affirm that you meet the 3.2 GPA requirement and undergraduate, baccalaureate-seeking UC student. First-year students are eligible to apply as final decisions won't be made until the conclusion of fall semester when grades are finalized. The application will require that you submit an updated resume. We suggest that you list any campus or community engagements. High school experiences are still valuable, especially for first-year students. Consider leadership, individual and team activities, competitive events, study abroad, activism or other extracurricular activities in addition to any work history. Knowing what you have engaged in so far in your UC experience is very important to our selection process. Gateway to University Honors Class All new students admitted through this process are required to enroll in the one credit hour Gateway to University Honors course (HNRS1010) during Spring 2022. Spring 2022 Gateway sections have been announced and listed below. Registration will only be available to students once decisions are announced. Mondays 2:30-4:20pm Wednesdays 3:35-5:25pm Thursdays 2:00-3:50pm asynchronous virtual option All students must take HNRS1010 in the first semester they are admitted. We will continue to monitor the the COVID public health crisis for our offerings in the spring. Students with academic conflicts, co-op, or study abroad who can demonstrate unavoidable conflicts that are requirements of their academic plans will be permitted to take an online version of the course. Gateway to University Honors (HNRS1010) does NOT carry a fee. If the student is taking the maximum number of credit hours (18) as a full-time student, s/he can still enroll in the class without being charged additional tuition fees. Students must receive authorization from their college academic advisor to register for the 19th credit hour. Questions? Contact us at honors@uc.edu or 513-556-6254. University Honors Program 700 Swift Hall PO Box 210007 Cincinnati, OH 45221-0007 honors@uc.edu UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati University Honors Program 700 Swift Hall PO Box 210007 Cincinnati, OH 45221-0007 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top