Skip to main content Skip to main navigation Graduate School Menu About Graduate School Calendar Staff Directory J. Larry Lyon Beth Allison Barr Steve G. Driese Christopher M. Rios Sheila Dooley Sandra B. Harman Anna E. Henderson Tosha A. Hendrickson Eric Hooley Alanna D. Martinez Dana Matthews Alana A. Schaeper Laura Sepanski 2020 Annual Report Admissions COVID-19 Admissions Updates How To Apply Apply Now International: English Proficiency International: Required Documents FAQs Admissions FAQs Admitted Students Additional Information for Admitted International Students Graduate Student Housing Community Moving to Waco Admitted Student FAQs New Graduate Student Orientation 2022 Submitting Test Scores Degrees & Programs Graduate Catalog Baylor Colleges and Schools Benefits & Financial Support Health Insurance Benefits Childbirth & Adoption Short-Term Leave Baylor Funding Opportunities Student Resources Graduate School Deadlines Campus Resources Professional Development All Programs and Workshops On-Campus Research Doctoral Programs On-Campus Master's Programs Online Professional Programs Awards and Funding Opportunities Summer Dissertation Fellowship Doctoral Administrative Fellows Baptist Scholars International Roundtable (BSIR) Baptist College and University Scholars Outstanding Dissertation Award Outstanding Graduate Student Instructor Award Outstanding Graduate Research Award BEAR Grants Travel Awards McNair Doctoral Fellowship Postdoctoral Teaching Fellowship External Funding Resources Dr. Steven G. Driese Outstanding Grant Proposal Award Completing Your Degree Dissertation & Thesis Resources Requirements for Graduation Completing Your Degree FAQs Faculty & Staff Resources General Resources English for Academic Purposes Program GPS Faculty Development Workshops Graduate Council Graduate Curriculum Committee Graduate Faculty Rights and Membership Proposing a New Graduate Degree Search Grad Faculty Graduate Student Payroll Graduate Program Directors GPD Listing Program Director Statement Resources for Directors Recruitment and Admissions Recruiting Funds Slate Log In Baylor>Graduate School>Student Resources>Awards and Funding Opportunities>Postdoctoral Teaching Fellowship Postdoctoral Teaching Fellowship Program The Graduate School launched the Postdoctoral Teaching Fellowship in 2020-2021 with the support of the Provost’s Office and in collaboration with the College of Arts & Sciences and the Honors College. Currently, postdoctoral fellowships in the Honors College and the College of Arts & Sciences are offered for Baylor graduates through the Graduate School. See here for School of Education postdoctoral information. These 10-month positions will include a salary of $40,000, continued access to Graduate School travel funds, additional mentoring and professional development training, and the same health benefits as Baylor faculty for the 10-month duration of the postdoctoral position. The process for nomination and selection is as follows: PhD graduates within the College of A&S who have completed their degree within the academic year immediately preceding the start date of the Teaching Fellowship are eligible. Beginning next year with the January 2023 application cycle (for 2023-2024), applicants must have completed their PhDs within 5 active years of the start of their program. GPDs in collaboration with their department Chairs will submit a one page letter of recommendation for 1-2 eligible students within their department. In addition to outlining why the department supports the application of the student, it will also outline the classes to be taught during the one-year fellowship (4-4 load). Students should provide their CV along with the nomination letter. For Fall 2022 consideration, applications should be submitted via email to the professional development office in the Graduate School (care of Laura Sepanski) by January 31, 2022. The nominations must come from the GPDs with the support of department chairs. The Graduate School will provide review of the applications along with the A&S and Honors college, and submit the candidates to both the deans of A&S and the Honors College. Three Teaching fellows will be selected for A&S and one teaching fellow will be selected for the Honors College. The candidates will be selected based on the strength of their applications as well as the teaching needs of the university. Candidates for the English postdoctoral fellowships will be decided within the English department; candidates for the School of Education will be decided within the School of Education. Selection of Postdoctoral Teaching Fellowships will be announced by February 28, 2022. The goal is for this Postdoctoral Teaching Fellowship to pave the way for the 2023-2024 Postdoctoral Teaching Fellowship. The 4 Postdoctoral Teaching Fellowship positions for 2021-2022 will join the three English Postdoctoral Teaching Fellowship positions launched in 2020-2021 (for a total of 7 postdoctoral teaching fellowships), and become part of the Competitive Postdoctoral Teaching Fellowship Program for 2023-2024. In 2023-2024, eligible students will have completed their PhD within the calendar year immediately preceding the start date of the Teaching Fellowship as well as have completed their PhD program within 5 active years. We encourage departments to continue giving first priority of all PTL hires to recent PhD graduates. While these students may not be recipients of the competitive Postdoctoral Teaching Fellowship program, they can still benefit from a year of teaching full loads within the department as they prepare for the job market. We encourage departments to consider hiring PhD students to teach full loads (or close to full loads) as PTL hires. We are working to continue expanding the Postdoctoral Teaching Fellowship Program. We are so thankful for the support of the Provost Office in helping us create these postdoctoral positions. The Baylor Graduate School is committed to expanding this program for as many PhD students as possible. It is our goal to make postdoctoral fellowships for Baylor PhD students a regular part of our academic landscape. Student Resources Graduate School Deadlines Campus Resources Professional Development All Programs and Workshops Grad School Newsletter Two Week Outlook GPS Workshops On-Campus Research Doctoral Programs Graduate Writing Center Consultants Teaching in English for International Teaching Assistants Dissertation & Thesis Resources Dissertation Writing Lab Travel Awards Present your PhD On-Campus Master's Programs Teaching of Record Training Online Professional Programs Awards and Funding Opportunities Summer Dissertation Fellowship Dissertation Fellows Doctoral Administrative Fellows Expenses and Reimbursement Baptist Scholars International Roundtable (BSIR) BSIR Leadership BSIR Scholars Past BSIR Roundtables and Scholars 2020-2021 Roundtable 2020-2021 Scholars 2019 Roundtable 2019 Scholars BSIR Distinguished Fellow BSIR Membership Baptist College and University Scholars The Schmeltekopf Fellowship for Educational Leadership BCU Alumni BCU Scholar Directory Scott Alexander Melissa Donham Kristyn Drew Alexis Edwards Nick Hadsell Brandon Johnson Cece Lively Jordan Mattke Brent Nessler Stephanie Peek Jacob Randolph Ryan Sinni Casey Spinks Jonathan Stanfill Sean Strehlow David Winkler Outstanding Dissertation Award Outstanding Dissertation Award Recipients Outstanding Graduate Student Instructor Award Outstanding Graduate Research Award Outstanding Research Award Recipients BEAR Grants Travel Awards Apply for Professional Meeting Support Apply for Doctoral Research Support 2021-2022 Awards 2020-2021 Awards 2019-2020 Awards 2018-2019 Awards McNair Doctoral Fellowship Postdoctoral Teaching Fellowship Postdoctoral Teaching Fellowship School of Education External Funding Resources Events and Seminars External Funding Opportunities Graduate Grant List Funding Newsletters Workshops Citizenship Not Required Funding Opportunities Dr. Steven G. Driese Outstanding Grant Proposal Award Completing Your Degree Dissertation & Thesis Resources Dissertation/Thesis Flowchart Formatting Workshops Formatting Resources Requirements for Graduation Doctoral Regalia Completing Your Degree FAQs Baylor Graduate School Baylor Graduate School Morrison Hall, Suite 200 One Bear Place #97264 Waco, TX 76798-7264 (254) 710-3588 (254) 710-3870 GraduateAdmissions@baylor.edu Live Chat ApplyVisitMake a Gift General Information Colleges, Schools, Libraries & Research Admissions Administration Gateways For... About Baylor Anonymous Reporting Athletics Ask Baylor Bookstore Calendar Campus Map Directory Give Light Give to Baylor Illuminate Mental Health Resources News Pro Futuris Report It Search Social Media Title IX Baylor Libraries College of Arts & Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work George W. Truett Theological Seminary Graduate School Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Louise Herrington School of Nursing Research at Baylor University Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Engineering & Computer Science School of Music More Academics Undergraduate Admissions goBAYLOR Graduate Admissions Baylor Law School Admissions Social Work Graduate Programs George W. Truett Theological Seminary Admissions Online Graduate Professional Education Virtual Tour Visit Campus Annual Fire Safety and Security Notice Athletics Human Resources Marketing and Communications Office of General Counsel Office of the President Office of the Provost Operations, Finance & Administration Senior Administration Student Life University Advancement Baylor Alumni Faculty & Staff Online Graduate Professional Education Parents Prospective Faculty & Staff Prospective Students Students Copyright © Baylor® University. All rights reserved. Legal Disclosures. Baylor University • Waco, Texas 76798 • 1-800-229-5678 About Graduate School Calendar Staff Directory J. Larry Lyon Beth Allison Barr Steve G. Driese Christopher M. Rios Sheila Dooley Sandra B. Harman Anna E. Henderson Tosha A. Hendrickson Eric Hooley Alanna D. Martinez Dana Matthews Alana A. Schaeper Laura Sepanski 2020 Annual Report Admissions COVID-19 Admissions Updates How To Apply Apply Now International: English Proficiency International: Required Documents FAQs Admissions FAQs Admitted Students Additional Information for Admitted International Students Graduate Student Housing Community Moving to Waco Admitted Student FAQs New Graduate Student Orientation 2022 Submitting Test Scores Degrees & Programs Graduate Catalog Baylor Colleges and Schools Benefits & Financial Support Health Insurance Benefits Childbirth & Adoption Short-Term Leave Baylor Funding Opportunities Student Resources Graduate School Deadlines Campus Resources Professional Development All Programs and Workshops On-Campus Research Doctoral Programs On-Campus Master's Programs Online Professional Programs Awards and Funding Opportunities Summer Dissertation Fellowship Doctoral Administrative Fellows Baptist Scholars International Roundtable (BSIR) Baptist College and University Scholars Outstanding Dissertation Award Outstanding Graduate Student Instructor Award Outstanding Graduate Research Award BEAR Grants Travel Awards McNair Doctoral Fellowship Postdoctoral Teaching Fellowship External Funding Resources Dr. Steven G. Driese Outstanding Grant Proposal Award Completing Your Degree Dissertation & Thesis Resources Requirements for Graduation Completing Your Degree FAQs Faculty & Staff Resources General Resources English for Academic Purposes Program GPS Faculty Development Workshops Graduate Council Graduate Curriculum Committee Graduate Faculty Rights and Membership Proposing a New Graduate Degree Search Grad Faculty Graduate Student Payroll Graduate Program Directors GPD Listing Program Director Statement Resources for Directors Recruitment and Admissions Recruiting Funds Slate Log In