Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Information For Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff Search BC.edu Links Menu Main Nav BC Experience for High School Students Back Back Close Programs Overview Honors Program Non-Credit Program Business & Leadership Institute Writing for College Creative Writing Workshop Forensics, Profiling and Crime Scene Analysis Government, Globalism, Capitalism Fundamentals of Economics Introduction to Concepts in Psychology Psychology of the Arts Sports Management Institute Politics & Democracy Applied Neuropsychology Writing for the Visual Medium: Stage Writing for the Visual Medium: TV Writing for the Visual Medium: Screen Program Costs Apply Outside the Classroom Overview Residential Experience Commuter Students FAQs Participant Information Overview Arrival and Departure Information Close Directory A to Z Listing Search BC.edu Find pages or people Search Close Close Apply Visit Give Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close Home FAQs Home Programs Apply Outside the Classroom FAQs Participant Information FAQs General Information What is the cost of the program? Here is the link to the Program Costs. What is the refund/cancellation policy? Once the program fee has been paid in full it is non-refundable. If for any reason a student must withdraw from the program, please email bce@bc.edu Are there any discounts or financial aid offered for BCE programs? Unfortunately, BC does not offer discounts or financial aid for any summer programs or courses. Will participating in this program help me to get into Boston College? The Boston College Experience program is an opportunity for students to become familiar with Boston College as an educational institution and community. Participation in the program will have no influence on any ongoing or future application to the undergraduate program. How much do books and course materials cost? Cost of books and course materials will depend on the course. How much homework do instructors assign? The amount of homework varies from one class to another. In most cases, students should expect no more than two hours of homework per night. Is BCE Summer 2022 Program In-Person? While the following Two-Week Non-Credit Courses: Introduction to Concepts in Psychology and Applied Neuropsychology are offered online, the remaining Two-Week Non-Credit courses will be offered in person. Here is the link to more information about the Two-Week Non-Credit courses. On the other hand, the BC Honors Program students will participate in BC Summer Session college courses, which are conducted fully online and asynchronously. Honors Program students do not come to the BC campus in person. Where are classes held? The Honors Program courses will take place online and will be offered in an asynchronous format. While the following Two-Week Non-Credit Courses: Introduction to Concepts in Psychology and Applied Neuropsychology are offered online, the remaining Two-Week Non-Credit Courses will take place on the Boston College campus. What are the application requirements for each program? Please see the Apply page. Will students enrolled in the Honors Program take courses with undergraduate college students? Yes. Honors students will take the same summer courses offered to undergraduate college students. What credentials does a student receive in completing the BCE program? BCE Honors Program students who satisfactorily complete the coursework are eligible to earn up to 4 semester hours of college credit. Students who participate in the BCE Non-Credit Programs will, upon completion of an end-of-course feedback form, receive a printable certificate of participation/completion. After the BCE Honors Program ends how do I get my BCE transcript? BCE Honors students may request an official BC transcript from the Office of Student Services. Will the Honors Program credits transfer to other schools? Yes. Students should contact the intended school about their policies and procedures in regards to transferring college credit. Application/Program Information Are the applications for summer 2022 open? Yes, applications for Summer 2022 are open. Here is the link to the Apply. May I still apply to the program if I am already a senior in high school? No. Students must be entering their senior year in September 2022. What if my PSAT, SAT, or ACT scores are low? For both the Honors Program and the Two-Week Non-Credit courses, test scores are not required. I participated in the program last year, must I reapply? Returning applicants must reapply. I am interested in the Two-Week Non-Credit courses. Can I apply to more than one? Yes, you may enroll in another two-week non-credit course but the course must take place during a different session. Students can enroll up to a maximum of two different two-week non-credit courses. I am interested in both the Honors Program and the Two-Week Non-Credit courses. Can I apply to both? No. Students can only apply to one of the programs. When is the application deadline? Students who have submitted a completed application by the following dates: February 15th, March 15th, April 15th, May 15th, and June 15th. When will I be notified of an admission decision? Students will receive notifications within two weeks of the deadline dates. Do I need to submit a transcript and letter of recommendation? Only students who are applying to the Honors Program are required to submit an official high school transcript and two letters of recommendation. I am homeschooled and interested in applying to the Honors Program, who is eligible to submit recommendation letters on my behalf? Letters of recommendation provide us with objective, unbiased, and contextual feedback about a student’s academic and personal attributes. Given the nature of homeschooling, parents are often identified as the head of school, guidance counselor, teacher, coach, and more. While we expect that a student’s homeschool instructor (usually a parent) will submit an academic and evaluative recommendation, it is strongly recommended that third-party, non-familial sources of recommendation are also submitted. Those that can speak to an academic experience are particularly important. For example, many homeschoolers complete college level courses at a local post-secondary institution; a letter of recommendation from the college instructor would be a valuable third-party assessment tool. In addition to external academic assessments, recommendations that speak to a student’s involvement in the community can also be helpful. Many homeschooled students participate in community activities, local organizations, regional athletic clubs, local religious programs and more. Online Program/Courses Will BCE have any online programs? The Honors Program will be offered online only in an asynchronous format. Here is the link to more information about the Honors Program. In addition, the Two-Week Non-Credit Courses Introduction to Concepts in Psychology and Applied Neuropsychology are offered fully online. Will participation in the Honors Program require me to be online every day? The expectations for weekly live engagement will differ based on the course. However, while there may not be an expectation of daily LIVE interaction (i.e., faculty led Zoom classes), there may be expectation of daily engagement with the course (i.e., watching videos, discussion board participation, etc.). Please refer to your syllabus for details and be sure to clarify expectations with your faculty member. Will all learning in the online courses be done live via Zoom? No, these courses are offered primarily asynchronously using the Canvas Learning Management System (LMS). What is asynchronous learning? Asynchronous learning is not the same as the remote learning you may have experienced in the spring and fall. Students will not be expected to meet in a Zoom classroom every day at a specific time for a live class. Your "classroom" will be the Canvas Learning Management Platform and you will engage with the faculty, other classmates and the materials primarily on your own time. Is there programming for the Honors Program outside of students taking the asynchronous courses? The Honors Program will have a guest speaker series during the six-week program. Guest speakers may include a representative from the Admissions office, Q&A with a current BC student, etc. Student Experience Will there be a residential option for BCE? Yes, students applying to the Two-Week Non-Credit Courses will have the option to live on-campus or to commute to the Boston College campus. There is no residential option for the Honors Program. Does the residence staff live in the residence hall? Yes. The residence staff consists of a resident director, three resident coordinators, and a team of peer advisors. The residence staff is there to respond to emergencies, carry out college policies and procedures, plan programming and assist students with getting to know the campus. Does the residence hall have air conditioning? Individual rooms do not have air conditioning. Air conditioning is available in public areas of the residence halls, in most classrooms, and across campus in locations like the library and the dining halls. Where do students eat? Students will eat in one of BC dining halls. For residential students, food is covered in the tuition costs. For more detailed descriptions of the dining halls, their hours, and their food offerings visiting the homepage of BC Dining. Can commuter students eat on-campus? Commuter students may join their classmates in any of the dining halls for meals They may pay by cash, debit or credit card. Can students commute to the Two-Week Non-Credit courses? Yes, students can choose to commute. What kind of on-campus programming will be happening? Peer advisors will plan programs for both commuter and residential students to get to know the campus. At least one off-campus program will be scheduled during the weekend. Programming examples include: scavenger hunts, museum trips, etc. Can commuters participate in on-campus programming? Yes, commuter students can participate in programming not taking place in the residence hall. Due to security issues, only residential students are allowed in the residence hall at ANY TIME. What safety precautions are in place for my child in the online environment? All courses are password protected and behind a firewall. Links used in the classroom are also password protected and only open to the BC community. Will participants have access to BC resources? Please see the Admitted Students page. Back To Top Back To Top BC Experience for High School Students Boston College Summer Session - BCE 617-552-3800 bce@bc.edu Facebook 140 Commonwealth Avenue Chestnut Hill, MA 02467 Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College