Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Search Type Faculty & Staff Event Featured Profile News Opportunity Resource Student Research Project Videos Search Menu Info for… [Select an Audience] [Select An Audience] Prospective Undergraduate Students Current Undergraduate Students Prospective Graduate Students Current Graduate Students Faculty & Staff Parents Alumni Employers Admissions» Undergraduate Admissions Graduate Admissions Academics» Undergraduate Degree Programs Graduate Degree Programs Online Learning Non-Degree & Special Programs Academic Policies Departments» Applied Physics and Applied Mathematics Biomedical Engineering Chemical Engineering Civil Engineering and Engineering Mechanics Computer Science Earth and Environmental Engineering Electrical Engineering Industrial Engineering and Operations Research Mechanical Engineering Research» Faculty and Research Staff Institutes, Centers & Initiatives Department Research Research Areas Undergraduate Research Opportunities University and School Research Resources Innovation, Design & Entrepreneurship» Student Life» Undergraduate Student Life Graduate Student Life Living in New York City Commencement Student Profiles About» Dean of Columbia Engineering At A Glance Engineering for Humanity Mission & Vision Supporting the Vision History Plan A Visit Board of Visitors Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion People News Columbia Engineering Magazine Strategic Collaborations Get Involved Bulletin Make a Gift Contact Computer Science Computer Science VISIT COMPUTER SCIENCE Computer science is now integral to almost every field of study, from engineering and the natural and social sciences, to economics and business, and increasingly to the heavily text-based fields of literature and history. The trend is irreversible, driven by more powerful computers, larger data sets, the conversion of text and imagery into data, and better, more optimized algorithms. Department Overview The Department of Computer Science is dedicated to making computer science accessible to the wider student population. For majors, the department offers everything from introductory CS and programming classes to advanced instruction in 10 research areas with opportunities for undergrads to work on research projects. For nonmajors, the department is expanding its interdisciplinary offerings. As one example, Computing in Context combines lectures in basic computer science—taught by a computer science professor—with lectures and projects by humanities, social science, and other professors outside CS who show how those skills and methods apply to a specific liberal arts discipline. Research Theory Software Systems Graphics and User Interfaces Computer Engineering NLP and Speech Networking Security and Privacy Vision and Robotics Computational Biology Machine Learning Advanced Degrees for Broadening Understanding of CS Columbia University and the New York City environment provide excellent career opportunities with multiple industries. For those wanting to deepen and expand their computer science skills, the MS program provides advanced education in several computer science tracks while offering opportunities to participate in state-of-the-art research. Those pursuing PhD studies will work alongside world-class researchers to innovate new techniques and algorithms as they tackle hard problems across science, technology, and society. Faculty Faculty within the department include leading researchers who are dedicated to excellence in undergraduate and graduate education and research. As the number of students enrolling in computer science classes increases, the department is expanding the number of teaching-oriented faculty to ensure a solid grounding in computer science skills and methods for all students. See the department faculty page for a full faculty list. Contact the Department Department of Computer Science Columbia University 500 West 120 Street Room 450, Mail Code 0401 New York, NY 10027 Phone: 212-853-8400 Fax: 212-666-0140 Email – Undergrads: [email protected] Email – Grad students: [email protected] Computer Engineering Program The Computer Engineering program combines key aspects of electrical engineering and computer science. Whether pursuing a BS or Master of Science degree, students learn the fundamentals of circuits, systems, and software associated with the design of programmable systems used in general purpose computing, communications, control, and signal processing. Learn More About Computer Engineering 500 W. 120th Street #510 New York, NY 10027 Tel (212) 854-2993 Google Maps Plan a Visit Directory Columbia Engineering Columbia University Privacy Policy Terms of Use Faculty Job Opportunities Make a Gift Contact