Texas Tech University Directory Raiderlink A-Z Index Hispanic Serving Institution Menu Search TTU Division of Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Office of Institutional Diversity HSI Programs & Initiatives The Office of Institutional Diversity (“OID”) leads HSI efforts across Texas Tech University and is responsible for annually filing an eligibility application with the U.S. Department of Education for waiver from the requirements for designation as an “eligible institution” under Title III and Title V of the Higher Education Act of 1965. University Efforts The following are efforts undertaken by Texas Tech University as we continue to develop and serve as an HSI: TTU HSI Committee The HSI Committee is tasked with working across Texas Tech to amplify and optimize the institution's designation as an HSI, furthering the university's commitment to diversity, equity, and inclusion through “Servingness”. The work of the committee will help ensure Texas Tech's HSI designation is further established as a fundamental part of Texas Tech's institutional practice, climate, and culture. The HSI Committee's efforts will center on intentionality and “servingness” to facilitate student sense of belonging, build on the strength of the university community, enhance opportunities for students, faculty, and staff to fully engage and thrive at Texas Tech, and leverage HSI grant funding opportunities to enhance the campus experience. To do this, the HSI Committee will work with each subcommittee to address the areas of focus noted below: Servingness Support and Culture Focus #1: Establish and strengthen the programs, trainings, workshops, professional development opportunities and services necessary to support the campus as a Hispanic Serving Institution (HSI) with a servingness culture. Undergraduate Student Servingness Focus #2: Support student enrollment, retention, graduation, engagement, and sense of belonging especially among Hispanic/Latinx students and low-income, minoritized student populations. Graduate & Post-Doc Student Servingness Focus #3: Increase and support graduate student success outcomes, sense of belonging, and preparation for career placement especially among Hispanic/Latinx students and low-income, minoritized students. Faculty, Staff, and Administration Servingness Focus #4: Maximize funding efforts to recruit diverse faculty and staff, and, through mentorship and other best practices, seek to retain outstanding, diverse employees who will enhance institutional culture. Academic Servingness Focus #5: Work with colleges, programs, and departments to embed culturally relevant curriculum and event programming. Servingness through Data Focus #6: Collect relevant data on resources and programs that help to inform and understand the needs and experiences, areas of engagement, and gaps in services and support of students, faculty, staff, and administration. Servingness through Funding Focus #7: Identify funding opportunities that advance the HSI goals of the university. Community Servingness Focus #8: Educate, elevate, and strengthen the university's identity and commitment to servingness as an HSI through greater engagement with the TTU and Lubbock communities. Overarching Goals: Research and promote practices that have been demonstrated to support and advance minoritized students, faculty, and staff, with a focus on Hispanic/Latinx students, faculty, and staff. Build institutional capacity and identify synergistic opportunities for data informed practice to support Hispanic/Latinx and low-income undergraduate and graduate students. Learn from peer and aspirant institutions and current scholarship to improve and further establish that increasing the success of minoritized students, with a focus on Hispanic students. Identify and make recommendations on how to leverage existing resources and assets, including faculty, staff, and student resources, to benefit all minoritized student populations. The HSI committee is led by a Chair and a Co-Chair and includes three sub-committees led by individuals with university-wide responsibilities that support their chair assignment. The sub-committees and chairs are: HSI Committee Chair – Dr. Carol A. Sumner, Vice President & Chief Diversity Officer HSI Committee Co-Chair – Dr. Ashley M. Gonzales, Assistant Vice President, Office of Institutional Diversity Academic Engagement Subcommittee – Chair, Dr. Jesse Mendez, Dean, College of Education Research & External Funding Subcommittee – Chair, Dr. Kaye Tindle, Assistant Vice President, Office of Research, and Innovation Student Success Subcommittee – Chair, Jade Silva Tovar, Assistant Vice President, DDEI Hispanic Serving Institution Week includes events and discussions to foster and promote inclusive conversations about the Hispanic culture and the benefits of being a Hispanic Serving Institution. All events and programs during the week-long celebration are open to the Texas Tech and Lubbock communities. The week-long series of events is also a great way to celebrate not only HSI Week, but also the start of Hispanic/Latinx Heritage Month. To view a listing of scheduled events during Texas Tech's last HSI Week, please visit the HSI Week page. First Generation Transition & Mentoring Programs (“FGTMP”} seek to support undergraduate students who identify as first-generation in college as they pursue their undergraduate degree. FGTMP offers peer mentorship, social engagement, and student success activities focused on increasing undergraduate student sense of belonging at Texas Tech. Lauro Cavazos & Ophelia Powell-Malone Mentoring Program (Mentor Tech) provides students with educational workshops with the inclusion of faculty and staff mentors to assist in the acclimation to college life for students from underrepresented backgrounds. McNair Scholars Program prepares undergraduate students for doctoral studies through involvement in research and other scholarly activities. McNair participants are either first-generation college students with financial need or members of a group that is historically underrepresented in graduate education and have demonstrated strong academic potential. McNair provides a series of workshops on research methods, data collection, research writing, and maintaining research budgets. TRIO Student Support Services (SSS) is an academic support program for students who are first-generation and/or demonstrate a financial need. SSS provides academic advising, career advising, financial aid assistance, and graduate school preparation and offers leadership development and a supportive community focused on empowering students to succeed. Dream Resource Center provides education, support, and advocacyfor undocumented students with or without Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA), also known as "Dreamers," and students with mixed-family statuses. Raider Education partners across campus with faculty, staff, and students to increase opportunities for cultural intelligence, diversity, justice and inclusive leadership skill development through workshops, trainings and intentional leadership development . Student Intersectional Leadership Council (“SILC”) Composed entirely of undergraduate student members, SILC works to identify issues of diversity and inclusion on campus and plans the various cultural celebrations hosted by the Division of Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Hosted a panel discussion on “Latinx Professional Development: Navigating being a Person of Color in the Workplace,” which was sponsored by Dell Technologies. TTU College and Departmental Efforts Texas Tech College of Architecture, which was ranked the No. 1 College for Hispanics by Hispanic Outlook on Education magazine in 2019, boasts facilities, faculty, and courses at a campus in El Paso, Texas, which helps educate and prepare students from far west Texas, most of whom are Hispanic. TTU's College of Media & Communication hosts the Thomas J. Harris Institute for Hispanic and International Communication (“HIHIC”), which promotes better understanding of Hispanic-related and international media communication through research, teaching and community outreach. HIHIC annually hosts a Distinguished Speaker Series and a Hispanic/Latino Media & Marketing International Conference. Fall 2019, three faculty from the College of Media & Communication conducted a study of college students' perceptions and portrayals of Hispanics on television and how those potentially impact their beliefs about race. 2018, Texas Tech established a Mexican American & Latina/o Studies Program. 21-hour minor offered at Tech is a dynamic interdisciplinary course of study based in the humanities, social sciences, arts, and evolution of ethnic studies that introduces students to the significant and rich personal, historical, economic, cultural and religious experiences of Mexican Americans and Latina/os in the United States 2018, Texas Tech opened up its first international campus in San José, Costa Rica with the goal of providing a quality college education to Costa Rican and Latin American students while giving Texas Tech students in the United States the opportunity to study and conduct research at an affiliated international campus. TTU Office of Undergraduate Admissions has: Placed admissions counselors in specific areas of the state to provide enrollment services to underrepresented populations, including McAllen, Texas, El Paso, Texas, and San Antonio, Texas. Employed two transfer admissions counselors in this area, as well as a dedicated transfer advisor, who provide pre-transfer advising services to these students. Placed at least one Admissions Counselor on each Recruitment Team who can converse in both English and Spanish Used signage at all recruitment events to inform prospective students and families that staff are available to communicate in Spanish Conducted multiple outreach initiatives to target and recruit Hispanic students to attend TTU. Efforts include: Spanish language website with general information about enrollment; Spanish language brochure with enrollment information, which is distributed at TTU recruitment events and is made available in all recruitment offices for families who seek information in Spanish. Targeted Recruitment Programs, which are carried out in areas where there is a high concentration of Hispanic students. Examples of these programs include: National Hispanic College Fairs in Texas and Colorado; National Hispanic Institute Collegiate World Series programming; National Hispanic Institute Celebración; Hispanic College Scholarship event participation; and, Raider Roadshow Recruitment events in McAllen, Texas and El Paso, Texas. Hispanic-themed celebrations at Texas Tech include activities during Hispanic Heritage Month, which includes: Recognizing the Hispanic culture of the South Plains at halftime of the annual Hispanic Heritage football game Division of Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion and SILC host a Grito! Ceremony for students, staff, faculty, and the community to celebrate Mexican Independence Day on September 16 Celebration of Día de los Muertos (“Day of the Dead”) with a procession and ceremony for campus and community members. TTU's Office of Institutional Diversity sponsors several faculty resource groups, including the Latino/Hispanic Faculty & Staff Association (“LHFSA”). Texas Tech's percentage of Hispanic faculty has risen steadily from 5.2% in fall 2013 to 8.05% in fall 2019. The Center for Campus Life and individual colleges sponsor various Hispanic-interest student organizations and clubs, including: Hispanic Student Society (“HSS”) Largest Hispanic student organization on the TTU campus, which promotes Hispanic culture among the student body at Texas Tech University, the Lubbock community, and surrounding areas and recruits, mentors, provides leadership support and opportunities for socialization, and promotes community service among prospective and current students; Unidos Por Un Mismo Idioma (“UMI”) Organization dedicated to creating and promoting a common understanding of the Spanish language and the Hispanic culture not only within Texas Tech University, but also among the local community; Society for the Advancement of Chicanos and Native Americans in Science (“SACNAS”) Inclusive organization dedicated to fostering the success of Chicanos/Hispanics and Native Americans in attaining advanced degrees, careers, and positions of leadership in STEM; Society of Hispanic Professional Engineers (“SHPE”) Raises awareness, provides access, and prepares Hispanic students to become leaders in the STEM fields; Association of Latino Professionals for America (“ALPFA”) Latino organization for professionals and students in business, finance, accounting, and related fields whose main objective is to develop networking and career opportunities that members will be able to value and apply in the business world; Minorities in Agriculture and Natural Resources, and Related Sciences (“MANRRS”) Promotes academic and professional advancement by empowering minorities in agriculture, natural resources, and related sciences; National Organization of Minority Architecture Students (“NOMAS”) National organization of students who bring greater awareness to the problems affecting minority groups within the architecture community through the use of provocative and constructive dialogue which seeks to address the issues of discrimination, professional relationships, culture, and public policy as they relate to minorities in the architecture community; Sixteen Multicultural Greek Council (“MGC”) fraternities and sororities, seven of which are Hispanic-interest organizations; and, Mariachi Los Matadores A performing ensemble within the TTU School of Music directed by Grammy Award-winning performer and Associate Director of Musicology Dr. Lauryn Salazar that focuses on playing traditional Mexican music. Each year, at graduation time, the Raiders Rojos Alumni Network hosts a Hispanic Graduation Convocation complete with serape-themed graduation stoles, for Hispanic graduates and those who celebrate the Hispanic culture of Texas Tech and the West Texas region. Additional efforts that benefit underrepresented students as well as Hispanic students: Red Raider Guarantee – In an effort to increase access to higher education, Texas Tech has implemented a plan to guarantee tuition and mandatory fees (based on 30 credit hours for the year) to new entering freshmen and transfer students with an associate's degree, who are Texas residents, have a family adjusted gross income that does not exceed $65,000, have demonstrated financial need, and who will be enrolled full time (12 hours or more each semester - Fall/Spring only). Matador Scholarship – pilot scholarship program awarding scholarships of from $1,000 – $5,000 for students from low socioeconomic backgrounds who are “test optional” for fall 2021 (did not have the opportunity or did not take either the SAT or ACT college entrance exam) and who exhibit academic achievement, financial need, family educational history (First-Generation) community service, leadership activities, and, in some cases, special circumstances. Strive for College Initiative Strive for College is a voice for good in the college access and success movement. The organization works in partnership with four-year colleges and universities to recognize institutions for their commitment to serve low-income and first-generation college students and to enhance their efforts to recruit and retain them on their campuses. In collaboration with the Office of Undergraduate Admissions, First-Gen Transition & Mentoring Programs will partner with Strive for College in order to: Promote and strengthen efforts to recruit and retain low-income and first-gen students Reach more prospective low-income, first-gen students, and their supporters Share and learn best practices for successfully recruiting and retaining low-income, first-gen students Hispanic Serving Institution Like Division of Diversity, Equity & Inclusion on FacebookLike Division of Diversity, Equity & Inclusion on Facebook Follow Division of Diversity, Equity & Inclusion on twitterFollow Division of Diversity, Equity & Inclusion on twitter Subscribe to Division of Diversity, Equity & Inclusion on YouTubeSubscribe to Division of Diversity, Equity & Inclusion on YouTube Follow Division of Diversity, Equity & Inclusion on InstagramFollow Division of Diversity, Equity & Inclusion on Instagram Address P.O. Box 5024 Lubbock, Texas, 79409-5024; Admin Building, Suite 233 Phone 806-742-7025 Email diversity@ttu.edu Texas Tech University 2500 Broadway Lubbock, Texas 79409 806.742.2011 Follow Texas Tech University Like Texas Tech University on FacebookLike Texas Tech University on Facebook Follow Texas Tech University on twitterFollow Texas Tech University on twitter Check in with Texas Tech University on FourSquareCheck in with Texas Tech University on FourSquare Subscribe to Texas Tech University on YouTubeSubscribe to Texas Tech University on YouTube Follow Texas Tech University on FlickrFollow Texas Tech University on Flickr Follow Texas Tech University on InstagramFollow Texas Tech University on Instagram Connect with Texas Tech University on LinkedInConnect with Texas Tech University on LinkedIn Contact Texas Tech UniversityContact Texas Tech University Contact Us Campus Map Jobs @ TTU Emergency Communication Center General Policy Information Public Access to Course Info Energy Management Mental Health Resources Title IX Fraud and Misconduct Hotline Online Institutional Resumes TTU System TTU Health Sciences Center TTUHSC El Paso Angelo State University Midwestern State University Statewide Search State of Texas Texas Homeland Security Texas Veterans Portal Texas CREWS SAO Fraud Reporting Open Records Requests © 2022 Texas Tech UniversityMar 11, 2022 10:52 AM Hispanic Serving Institution About Hispanic Serving Institution Back About HSI Hispanic Serving Institution About HSI Back What is HSI? Glossary of Terms Programs & Initiatives Development, Resource & Professional Affiliations Hispanic Faculty at Texas Tech Data Hispanic Serving Institution Back Historical Enrollment Data Rankings The History of Achieving HSI status Hispanic Serving Institution The History of Achieving HSI status Back Achieving HSI Status HSI Timeline RAISE Committee Message from the President Message from the Provost Opportunities & Events Hispanic Serving Institution Back Students Hispanic Serving Institution Back Scholarships Resources Grants Hispanic Serving Institution Back Students Research/Outreach Frequently Asked Questions News & Events Hispanic Serving Institution Back Events News Releases Community Profiles Additional Resources Hispanic Serving Institution Back TTU Resources Hispanic Serving Institution Back DDEI website Harris Institute Latino Hispanic Faculty & Staff Association External Resources Hispanic Serving Institution External Resources Back Texas HSI Consortium DOE HSI website HACU Additional Resources TTU HomeDirectory Raiderlink A-Z Index