Skip to main content Toggle subitems Main navigation Meet Princeton Toggle sub-items In Service of Humanity Facts & Figures History Honors & Awards Contact Us Visit Us Our Faculty Our Students Our Alumni Our Staff Our Leadership Academic Freedom and Free Expression Academics Toggle sub-items Studying at Princeton Library Areas of Study Humanities Social Sciences Engineering Natural Sciences Advising Academic Calendar Course Tools Learning Abroad Career Development Continuing Education Innovative Learning Research Toggle sub-items Engineering & Applied Science Humanities Natural Sciences Social Sciences Interdisciplinary Approach Dean for Research Office External Partnerships Facilities & Labs One Community Toggle sub-items Lifelong Connections Student Life Arts & Culture Athletics Living in Princeton, N.J. Housing & Dining Activities & Organizations Cultural & Affinity Groups Health & Wellness Religious Life Serving the Public Good Families Admission & Aid Toggle sub-items Affordable for All About Financial Aid Current Undergraduate Financial Aid Undergraduate Admission Graduate Admission For International Students Utility menu News Events Work at Princeton Services & Resources Work-Life Balance Links for Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Giving Search Sites & People × Learning Abroad The World Is Your Classroom Undergraduate Opportunities Graduate Student Opportunities Alumni Opportunities The World Is Your Classroom Play video: Play Video: Learning Across Borders shares student experiences Princeton University's Learning Across Borders (LABs), a new campus initiative that allows students to share their international experiences with their Princeton peers, gives students a venue to reflect on their journeys, and to document and display them in a way that is not only meaningful to them, but potentially inspiring to future travelers. Video by Nick Donnoli, Office of Communications At Princeton, we believe that the best way for you to understand and contribute to our globalized world is to experience other places and cultures firsthand. Our students share the University's international vision, and while they relish their time on campus, many also take advantage of a wide array of opportunities to live and learn abroad. Students often speak of their international learning experiences as "life changing." Whether you choose to study overseas, conduct research abroad or pursue an international internship, you'll be doing much more than furthering your academic work. You'll discover new interests, learn about yourself and return to Princeton with a more sophisticated understanding of our complex world. You will be a global citizen. When Princeton students return to campus from their time abroad, they describe experiences that are enriching on a personal level as well as an educational one. The rewards are wide-ranging: You might learn or master a foreign language By dealing with the unfamiliar, you'll develop a deeper self-knowledge You'll have a chance to meet new people and create an international network As you experience other cultures, you'll also be exposed to new ideas You might discover interests that can help you more finely focus your studies Your experience will prepare you for careers with an international dimension You'll gain a new way of looking at the world Read student stories from the Study Abroad Program Undergraduate Opportunities As a student, you'll have a choice of international programs in countries around the world, as well as the chance to take classes on campus that include a travel component. You can even start your Princeton journey in another nation through the innovative Novogratz Bridge Year Program. And after you graduate, you'll have opportunities to engage globally through alumni service programs such as Princeton in Africa, Princeton in Asia and Princeton in Latin America. The Novogratz Bridge Year Program Some students jump into an international experience right away before starting their first year on campus. As an incoming student, you can apply to spend nine months doing public service work abroad through the University's tuition-free Novogratz Bridge Year Program. This experiential "bridge" between high school and college gives you an opportunity to widen your perspective before you begin your first year. The Novogratz Bridge Year Program is hosted in five locations on three continents. Students live with local families while immersing themselves in the local culture, learning the language and serving the needs of the community. You might volunteer with a human rights or environmental project, tutor local children, teach IT skills — the opportunities vary by locale and the organizations with which Princeton partners. And you'll start your studies at Princeton with deep connections to a place other than home, and strong bonds with fellow students who have shared your experiences abroad. Learn more about the Novogratz Bridge Year Program A Semester or Year Abroad As an undergraduate student in any major, you can choose from among more than 100 semester- or year-long study abroad programs in over 40 countries. Living and learning in another country for an extended period of time teaches you things you never knew about yourself and the world. It can provide you with new skills, confidence and the feeling of possibility. And while you further your academic studies, you may also discover new ideas and interests that will shape you for a lifetime. With so many options to choose from, you'll get plenty of help deciding which program best fits your interests and goals. Students who receive financial aid continue to receive support from the University while studying abroad during the academic year. The Office of International Programs helps students decide why and where to study abroad and supports them on their journey. Study Abroad Global Ambassadors are available to tell you about their experiences and answer your questions. Learn more about a semester or year abroad Photo by Jamie Rankin Summer Language Immersion The summer provides time for intensive language study abroad, allowing you to learn or master languages among the people who speak them and explore new cultures. Many language programs, such as Princeton in Munich, Princeton in Beijing, Princeton in Argentina or the Aix-en-Provence Program for French studies, are organized by academic departments. Summer Internships Abroad Learning abroad doesn't have to mean studying abroad. You can spend your summer as an international intern instead, working with an organization that matches your interests in any of more than 50 countries. From helping migrant families in rural Mexico to working on architecture projects in Dubai, the opportunities are varied and fascinating. The International Internship Program lets you live and work abroad during summer break and comes with a financial award that covers most expenses. You can gain valuable experience, expand your academic interests and immerse yourself in new languages and cultures, and explore possible career paths through internships in a wide variety of fields. Learn more about being an intern abroad PIIRS Global Seminars How are Cuban writers and artists making sense of the changes in their society? What can you learn about contemporary Chinese society by experiencing it up-close? Every summer Princeton students head overseas through the PIIRS Global Seminars, traveling to fascinating locations with historical or political significance to explore a specific topic. Each six-week seminar is designed and led by Princeton faculty, and each presents a unique program of study that relies on visiting the locale at the heart of its subject matter. Daily lectures by seminar faculty and guests, language classes, weekend excursions to sites relevant to the course, and community service make up the experience. Explore the range of Global Seminars Graduate Student Opportunities Michael Smith, Department of Philosophy A wide range of international study and research opportunities are available to graduate students, including the chance to conduct independent research abroad. You can collaborate with peers and faculty at partner institutions and use international resources to further your research. Graduate School exchange programs let you take courses or conduct dissertation research overseas. Even after your experience has concluded, you may continue to collaborate with international peers and faculty through the professional relationships developed during your time abroad. Alumni Opportunities Play video: Play Video: The fellowships experience: A student perspective From the Rhodes to the backroads of Peru, the Office of International Programs supports students and alumni interested in applying to fellowships for study, research and service abroad. Internship placements around the world are also available from independent, region-focused associations of alumni and friends. Fellowship Advising Princeton in Africa Princeton in Asia Princeton in Latin America More in Academics Studying at Princeton Library Areas of Study Humanities Social Sciences Engineering Natural Sciences Advising Academic Calendar Course Tools Learning Abroad Career Development Continuing Education Innovative Learning Contact links Contact Us Accessibility Advanced People Search Media Inquiries Website Feedback Visiting links Plan a Visit Maps & Shuttles Varsity Athletics Giving to Princeton Academic links Library Academic Calendar Student Links Faculty & Staff Links Footer social media Facebook Twitter Instagram Snapchat LinkedIn YouTube Social Media Directory Equal Opportunity and Nondiscrimination at Princeton University: Princeton University believes that commitment to principles of fairness and respect for all is favorable to the free and open exchange of ideas, and the University seeks to reach out as widely as possible in order to attract the ablest individuals as students, faculty, and staff. In applying this policy, the University is committed to nondiscrimination on the basis of personal beliefs or characteristics such as political views, religion, national or ethnic origin, race, color, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity or expression, pregnancy, age, marital or domestic partnership status, veteran status, disability, genetic information and/or other characteristics protected by applicable law in any phase of its education or employment programs or activities. In addition, pursuant to Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 and supporting regulations, Princeton does not discriminate on the basis of sex in the education programs or activities that it operates; this extends to admission and employment. Inquiries about the application of Title IX and its supporting regulations may be directed to the Assistant Secretary for Civil Rights, Office for Civil Rights, U.S. Department of Education or to the University's Sexual Misconduct/Title IX Coordinator. See Princeton’s full Equal Opportunity Policy and Nondiscrimination Statement. Princeton University Princeton, NJ 08544 Operator: (609) 258-3000 © 2022 The Trustees of Princeton University Subfooter links Copyright Infringement Privacy Notice