Skip to main content Search Global dropdown menu Research Support Subject Librarians Reach out to a librarian for specialized help in a discipline. Library Catalog Find books, audio and video, music scores, maps and more. Research Guides Use the best resources we have, picked by librarians. Databases There's a wealth of information to be found through our database subscriptions. Collections Print and digital collections serve as extensions of our teaching and research facilities. Research ServicesWe're available throughout all stages of your research. Quick Links Library Search JSTOR PubMed Make an Appointment Newspapers Journals Collections Program Borrow & Renew Library Catalog Find books, audio and video, music scores, maps and more in the catalog. Borrowing & Requesting Learn how to borrow materials at Dartmouth and from other libraries via BorrowDirect or DartDoc. Tech Loans We've got everything from chargers to a professional portable recording studio. Alumni Access and Resources How to access resources, on and off-campus. Media Discover an extensive range of movies, television series, documentaries, educational programs, audio and more. Off-Campus Access Students, staff, and faculty can access most of our electronic resources off-campus. Quick Links BorrowDirect DartDoc Course Reserves for Faculty Course Reserves for Students Libraries & Spaces Study and Meeting Spaces Book a meeting room for a group or sign up to use a private study room. Hours and Locations Our hours, holiday closings, street addresses and contact information. Baker-Berry Library Our main library houses the humanities and social sciences collections. Biomedical Libraries The Dana and Matthews-Fuller libraries support the disciplines of health and life sciences. Evans Map Room Houses thousands of sheet maps, mapping software, atlases, globes & more. Feldberg Business & Engineering Library Offers support for the Tuck School of Business & Thayer School of Engineering. Jones Media Center Provides facilities & collections for researching, viewing & producing media. Rauner Special Collections Library Includes rare books, manuscripts & more. Sherman Art Library Supports the departments of Art History, Studio Art, as well as the Hood Museum of Art. About Us Accessibility Events Latest News Privacy Policy Dean's Council for Equiy and Inclusion Strategic Objectives Visiting & Exhibits Help Library Search Learn about signing into your account, search options and tips, getting to resources and working with citations. Research Support We're committed to partnering with you to enhance and showcase your research. Publishing Support We provide consultation focusing on opportunities in digital publishing and scholarship. Subject Librarians We have a subject librarian for your major or course who wants to help! Teaching Support Working together with faculty, we can help design and implement effective research experiences for students. Workshops & Events We offer a variety of events to assist you in developing skills ranging from research to programming. Quick Links Contact Us FAQs Off-Campus Access Send Us Feedback Staff Directory Login Students, Faculty & Staff DHMC & Guests Alumni BorrowDirect DartDoc Toggle navigation Search Global dropdown menu Evans Map Room The Map Collection Map Room Staff Hours Map Room Policies Maps Online (Resources) Printing FAQs Other printing options Scanning FAQs Reference Services GIS Information & Facilities GIS Data Resources Maps In the News Geography Department Earth Sciences Department Local Digital Collections Enter the Sanborn Map Collection Entire Sanborn Collection (LoC) Enter the Hanover NH Map Collection Enter the Granite State Map Collection Enter the NH Towns & Cities in Maps Collection Topographic Maps Online Historical Topographic Maps Current U S Topos Contact Information Evans Map Room, Baker-Berry Library Dartmouth College 25 N Main ST Hanover, NH 03755-3525 Phone: (603) 646-2579 map.room@dartmouth.edu Today's Hours: 9am - 5pm Research Support Borrow & Renew Libraries & Spaces Help Login Students, Faculty & Staff DHMC & Guests Alumni BorrowDirect DartDoc Evans Map Room The Map Room is named in honor of the Evans Family (Barbara & R. Bradford Evans '64). The Evans Map Room is located on the second floor of the Berry Library, next to the Jones Media Center. Beginning March 16, 2022, the Map Room is open to all visitors 9 am to 5 pm, Monday through Friday. Masks are not required. We stop printing at 4:30 pm. If you wish to see Art Special items, you can make an appointment for a specific time or walk-in if you wish. Appointment times are available Monday through Friday. Click here to see available times and to make an appointment. Appointments must be made at least 36 hours in advance of the time desired. Those appointments are 45 minutes each. If you need more time, you can book back-to-back appointments. The Bloomberg terminals are no longer in the Map Room. If you have more questions, please call the Map Room at (603) 646-0962. See local COVID-19 maps for New Hampshire & Vermont. Celebrate Geography Awareness Week and GIS Day. Celebrate all things geographic in your life! Coming on Wednesday, November 17, 2021! On the cover of Popular Mechanics, the July/August 2020 issue is the following statement: "Here's to the most underappreciated technology of our history -- and our future, Maps: humankind's greatest tool." Giada Peterle (2018). "Carto-fiction: narrativising maps through creative writing." Social & Cultural Geography. Number 37 on the list of "101 Reasons to Love Dartmouth" from the Dartmouth Alumni Magazine. Sébastien Caquard & William Cartwright (2014). "Narrative Cartography: From Mapping Stories to the Narrative of Maps and Mapping." The Cartographic Journal, 51:2, 101-106. The "D": "Behind the Curtain: The Evans Map Room," February 9, 2014 (online) Caquard, S. & Fiset, J-P. (2014). How can we map stories? A cybercartographic application for narrative cartography. Journal of Maps, 10, 18-25. "Can Maps Teach Us About Writing?" in the Dartmouth Now posted June 13, 2013. Mark Koch brings his class to the Evans Map Room so they can see different types of maps. Summer internships are available again at Esri. Click here for more information. The International Map Year Information & News Printing FAQs Scanning FAQs Entire Sanborn Map Collection (LoC) WaterWatch (USGS) Earthquakes (USGS) Tsunamis (NOAA) Tsunamis (USGS) Hurricanes (NOAA) Hurricanes (USGS/WARC) Maps of NH (NH Fish & Game) Need a map for a paper? Need geographical information? Visit the Evans Map Room for assistance. Department or section navigation Evans Map Room The Map Collection Map Room Staff Hours Map Room Policies Maps Online (Resources) Printing FAQs Other printing options Scanning FAQs Reference Services GIS Information & Facilities GIS Data Resources Maps In the News Geography Department Earth Sciences Department Local Digital Collections Enter the Sanborn Map Collection Entire Sanborn Collection (LoC) Enter the Hanover NH Map Collection Enter the Granite State Map Collection Enter the NH Towns & Cities in Maps Collection Topographic Maps Online Historical Topographic Maps Current U S Topos Contact Information Evans Map Room, Baker-Berry Library Dartmouth College 25 N Main ST Hanover, NH 03755-3525 Phone: (603) 646-2579 map.room@dartmouth.edu Today's Hours: 9am - 5pm Dartmouth Library Baker-Berry Library Book Arts Workshop Evans Map Room Jones Media Center Biomedical Libraries Feldberg Business & Engineering Library Rauner Special Collections Library Records Management Sherman Art Library About Us Strategic Objectives Staff & Departments Subject Librarians Faculty Services Alumni Services Visiting & History Accessibility Library Catalog Careers Friends of the Library More About Us Contact Us 25 North Main Street Hanover, NH, USA 03755 Phone: 603-646-2567 Contact Us Give Us Feedback Connect with Us Facebook Instagram YouTube Footer copyright Dartmouth Copyright © 2020 Trustees of Dartmouth College Privacy Last Updated: 4/7/22