COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW Dorothy and Bill Cohen Honors College Section Menu Cohen Honors College Home Mission & Governance Apply Benefits Scholarships Curriculum Student Organizations Incoming Honors Student Information Current Students Dean's Message Applied Learning Undergraduate Student Research Lead For Tomorrow Leadership Academy Bill's Trip - National Park Leadership Trip Contact Us Faculty Faculty Fellows Alumni Forms Directory FAQ Great Plains Honors Council Conference Stop Video Learn more about joining Shocker Nation.Request info The Cohen Honors College at Wichita State challenges ambitious students in any major to build a better future through rigorous classes, problem solving across disciplines, independent and collaborative research, and community service. Apply now Join Honors See Cohen Honors degrees Our innovative approach A more meaningful college experience As a Cohen Honors College student, you'll take some of the coolest courses on campus, design your own course of study and enjoy increased student-faculty interaction due to small class sizes. You'll be encouraged to go beyond the classroom with service learning or to apply for a research grant or a Cohen Enhancement Scholarship to support study abroad, National Student Exchange, an unpaid internship or conference travel. As a graduate, you'll be well prepared for the rigors of graduate or professional school and leadership in your career and community. Learn about opportunities beyond the classroom Why join Honors? See Cohen Honors degrees The Honors difference The main difference between Honors courses and regular courses isn't workload but the approach taken to the material. The typical Honors course takes a more participatory approach to learning — less lecture, more discussion. Statistics show that Honors students earn higher grades in their Honors courses than in their regular courses. Graduating with Honors. Excellent benefits Honors College students enjoy smaller class sizes, specialized advising, priority enrollment, 24/7 access to the Honors Student Lounge with computers, study space and free printing, and exclusive independent and collaborative research opportunities. You'll also be part of a local and international alumni network of over 1,000 WSU Honors graduates. See more benefits Built-in support Honors College students are invited to live in the Honors Living Learning Community (LLC) in WSU's beautiful Shocker Hall housing facility. The Honors LLC provides you with a built-in support system, involvement opportunities and enhanced sense of community with other like-minded high-achieving students. Learn more about Honors LLC Exclusive scholarships The Lenora McGregor Endowed Scholarship provides up to $26,000 for an incoming freshman honors student, while the Koch Scholars Program awards $30,000-$45,000 scholarships for up to 7 honors students. Also, Cohen Enhancement Scholarships offer up to $4,000 for applied learning, study abroad, nonprofit internships, national conferences and undergraduate research. Ready for the challenge? Honors College admission requirements Honors College Research Honors College grad presents research at Harvard, Capitol Hill Abdul-Mannaan Giles chose Wichita State because he felt the investment made in undergraduate students through research opportunities would allow him to grow. The Honors College graduate completed two undergraduate research projects on Alzheimer's disease, and was selected to present at six national research conferences, including presentations at the Harvard University National Collegiate Research Conference and to members of Congress in Washington, D.C. Undergraduate Student Research VIDEO: Beating the odds Learn how a scholarship from the Wichita State University Foundation helped 2021 Honors College graduate Courtney Price-Dukes overcome circumstances to make her educational dreams come true. SOURCE: WSU Foundation Play Play Video Watch video on YouTube Cohen Honors College news All WSU News Weekly Update Student expands his 'horizons' with community-based project Art History student Dale Small served as the art director for the Horizontes Project, which brought Columbian street artist GLeo to Wichita to paint “El Sueño Original” (the original dream) on a grain elevator in an industrial area that separates the majority African American northeast neighborhoods from the majority Latino North End. The mural depicts residents of both neighborhoods. Study Abroad Student Profile: Lauren Rust Cohen Honors student Lauren Rust studied abroad at Åbo Akademi in Turko, Finland. The school rests on the west coast of the country, overlooking the gulf of Bothenia. What Rust enjoys most is the exchange of contextual education. “From my stay in Finland I hope to gain more insight into the brilliant education system of Finland. I would love to bring aspects of this back to the US and work to improve our educational system.” WSU gets $813,000 grant to boost minority STEM enrollment Wichita State University has been awarded $813,000 to boost enrollment and retention of students under-represented in science, technology, engineering and math. The funds are part of a larger $3 million, five-year National Science Foundation grant awarded to Kansas State University, which is sharing grant funds with a statewide coalition of universities and community colleges. MyTime Student Profile: Saylis Sengvilay I honestly feel like I owe so much of my happiness to WSU. Being a Wichita native, I had always been on WSU’s campus for various activities, so the campus already felt like a home to me when I began searching for colleges, which made the transition much easier. WSU has also offered me scholarships to help lift the financial burden off my parents and myself, so I truly get to focus on my academics and involvement. Submit a news tip Newsworthy Information Connect with the Honors College Honors College on Facebook Honors College on Twitter Tweets by CohenHonorsWSU 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©