Skip to main content Skip to main navigation Equity, Civil Rights, and Title IX Sexual and Interpersonal Misconduct / Title IX Menu About Us Laura Johnson, Ph.D. Carolyn Hughes Christina Jeong Michael Noble Tracey Tevis Elysa Bucci Melissa Morie Josh Stephens Candace Huskey Mito Diaz-Espinoza, Ph.D External Investigators Title IX Case Management Team Members Policy & Procedures SIM/Title IX Policies Adaptable Resolution Federal Guidelines Key Points Amnesty Definitions Retaliation Confidentiality & Privacy Responsible Employee SB212 Reporting Prevention & Training Workshops and Programs Faculty & Staff Training Student Training Upcoming Events Title IX Training Materials for Title IX Personnel Investigator Training Hearing Officer Training Relevance Training Restorative Justice Training Mediation Training Advanced Title IX Investigator Training Title IX/VAWA Investigator Training Civil Rights/Title IX Sexual Misconduct Investigator Training Training in Restorative Practices and Campus Sexual Harm 2021 Campus Restorative Justice Across Student Affairs 2021 Reporting Resources Social Climate Surveys 2017 Social Climate Survey 2019 Social Climate Survey 2021 Social Climate Survey Baylor>Sexual and Interpersonal Misconduct/Title IX>FAQs FAQs Sexual and Interpersonal Misconduct FAQs 1. How do I file a report of sexual and/or interpersonal misconduct? There are several options: A member of the Equity, Civil Rights, and Title IX Office can take the report over the phone, you can email the Title IX Coordinator, you can come in to the Equity, Civil Rights, and Title IX Office, or go online to the Title IX website. Anyone may report anonymously online via Ethics Point. 2. What happens once the Equity, Civil Rights, and Title IX Office receives a report of sexual or interpersonal misconduct? A staff member will reach out to the individual who is reported to have experienced prohibited conduct (complainant) via email and offer support, resources, and an opportunity to discuss their options for addressing the report. The complainant can either choose to meet or decline to meet at this time. If a complainant declines to meet, but then changes their mind at a later time, they may email or call to set up a time to meet. 3. I want to make a report of sexual and/or interpersonal misconduct to the Equity, Civil Rights, and Title IX Office, but I am afraid I will experience harassment or retaliation. What can Baylor do to protect me? We can provide you with a wide range of supportive measures. We can help with schedule changes, housing relocation, getting a No Contact Directive, or getting connected to on- or off-campus resources including, but not limited to, law enforcement for safety concerns or confidential counseling for mental health support. Retaliation against anyone who makes a good faith report or participates in a resolution process is prohibited. Concerns or questions about retaliation should be immediately reported to the Title IX Coordinator (TitleIX_Coordinator@baylor.edu). 4. What happens if I go to the hospital? If you've experienced a sexual assault, we encourage you to seek medical attention to treat any possible injuries, check for injuries you may not be able to see, and/or to have a Sexual Assault Forensic Exam (SAFE) preformed, sometimes called a "rape kit." When you arrive at the hospital, an advocate will be called to be with you for support. A specially trained nurse will preform this exam which will asses for any physical trauma, sexually transmitted disease, and pregnancy, and may also preserve evidence of a sexual assault. Baylor Scott & White Medical Center Hillcrest and Ascension Providence Hospital are the only local hospitals with SAFE nurses on call. Additional resources: Waco Advocacy Center 5. What if I was drinking alcohol underage or on campus, doing illegal drugs, or engaging in premarital sex when the incident occurred? If there is an allegation that the Sexual and Interpersonal Misconduct Policy was violated, the most important thing is for the Equity, Civil Rights, and Title IX Office to understand the full context of the situation. Therefore, if a student needs to disclose personal alcohol use, drug use, or sexual conduct that occurred at or near the time of the incident, regardless of the location, amnesty will be provided, which means the University will not pursue disciplinary action against this student. 6. What does the Disciplinary Resolution Process look like at Baylor? This process is utilized to determine if Baylor's policy was violated, and if so, assign sanctions. When an individual (Complainant) requests Disciplinary Resolution, they will be given the opportunity to meet with an investigator to share their perspective of what occurred, provide evidence, and/or identify witnesses they would like the investigator to speak to. The investigator provides the same opportunity to the individual who has been accused of prohibited conduct (Respondent). Each party (Complainant and Respondent) will have the option to have an advisor present at any meetings related to the investigation. The investigator will also interview relevant witnesses. Once the investigator has gathered all available information, he or she will write a report to summarize what they found. Both Complainant and Respondent are provided the opportunity to review and respond to the report. Then, the case moves forward to an adjudicative hearing where a hearing officer will determine, based on the available evidence and statements, whether it is more likely than not that the University's policy was violated. At the hearing, parties (through their advisor) will have the right to ask questions of each other and the witnesses. (Note: Parties can choose to be in separate rooms during the questioning.) The hearing officer will also ask his or her own questions. If a party or witness does not attend the hearing, any information that they provided to the investigator will not be used by the hearing officer in making his or her decision. If a violation is found, the hearing officer will determine the appropriate sanctions. Each party will have an opportunity to appeal the finding, which will be reviewed by an appellate officer. Throughout this process and even after it has concluded, parties can seek support and resources through the Equity, Civil Rights, and Title IX Office for academic and personal needs. 7. What does the Adaptable Resolution Process look like at Baylor? This is a voluntary and remedies-based resolution focused on addressing the harmed party's needs and eliminating future misconduct. This is a highly customized approach as each person's needs may differ. This process does not involve an investigation or adjudication by the University. It does involve taking responsibility for the harm caused and may also involve a respondent's agreement to participate in appropriate remedies or sanctions, including supported direct conversation or interaction with the complainant, education, training, and/or other remedies agreed to by the parties. These remedies could be similar to measures imposed in disciplinary sanctions, but they are always achieved through mutual agreement. The decision to pursue Adaptable Resolution will be made when the University has sufficient information about the nature and scope of the conduct, which may occur at any time. Additionally, both parties must agree to the process, and either party can choose to end the process at any time. Throughout this process and even after it has concluded, parties can seek support and resources through the Equity, Civil Rights, and Title IX Office for academic and personal needs. 8. I received a Notice of Investigation and have been named as a respondent. What happens next? A respondent is an individual who is accused of prohibited conduct. A Notice of Investigation is a written notice of the alleged misconduct sent to each party when the complainant has requested a Disciplinary Resolution process. At the time this notice is sent, you will receive a request to schedule a meeting with the Title IX Coordinator so that you can learn about your rights, options, and resources. After you meet with the Title IX Coordinator, you will be contacted by an investigator and have the opportunity to share your perspective of what happened, provide evidence, and/or identify witnesses you would like the investigator to speak to. You will have the same rights and access to resources as the Complainant throughout this process. Both parties will also have the option to have an advisor present at any meetings related to the investigation. 9. If I do not wish to move forward with a resolution process under the Sexual and Interpersonal Misconduct Policy, can the Equity, Civil Rights, and Title IX Office still provide me with resources and support? YES! We encourage you to contact our office so we can explain available resources. Some examples of the types of assistance and support we can provide you include referrals to community resources, academic support, assistance in changing class schedules or campus housing, and assistance in accessing counseling and medical services. 10. How does the Disciplinary Resolution process differ from the criminal process? The University oversees the Disciplinary Resolution process, while law enforcement oversees the criminal process. There is a different standard of proof; ours is preponderance of the evidence, which is "more likely or not" and law enforcement uses the criminal standard, "beyond a reasonable doubt." Our process is maintained within Baylor University, among those who need to know and is protected by the Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act (FERPA), which protects the privacy of student records. The process under the Sexual and Interpersonal Misconduct Policy is separate and distinct from Texas' criminal process. Proceedings under the Sexual and Interpersonal Misconduct policy may be carried out prior to, simultaneously with, or following civil or criminal proceedings off campus. Neither a decision by law enforcement regarding prosecution nor the outcome of any criminal or civil proceeding will be considered determinative of whether a violation of this policy has occurred. 11. What will happen if I contact the police? The criminal process is separate and distinct from the University process. We encourage you to speak to local law enforcement to find out more about what their process looks like. It is your decision whether you would like to contact the police or not. We can assist you in connecting with transportation, reaching out to, and setting up a meeting with local law enforcement. Once you talk to law enforcement and have more information, you can make an informed decision. Talking to law enforcement does not commit you to proceeding with a criminal process. 12. Can I, as the Complainant, make a report of sexual and/or interpersonal misconduct so that what happened is documented but not have any further action taken? Most likely, yes. Our goal is for you to tell us what action, if any, you want the University to take. If we have received multiple reports or there are concerns that the Respondent poses an imminent threat to you or the campus community, the University may need to move forward with a resolution process. However, we will notify you prior to moving forward if this is the case 13. What is the difference between an anonymous report and a confidential report? Students and third-parties can submit an anonymous report via Ethics Point. All information shared in this report will go directly to and be documented by the Equity, Civil Rights, and Title IX Office. We can communicate with you through this platform, and you can ask questions or add to your submission, if necessary. While we are able to communicate with you anonymously, our ability to address your report - i.e. conduct an investigation that may result in appropriate disciplinary action - may be limited if you, as the Complainant, choose to remain anonymous. The University has 3 locations where you can receive support in a completely confidential manner: the Counseling Center, Burt Burleson (University Chaplain), and the Health Center in the SLC. If you report an incident of sexual violence or misconduct to one of these resources, they cannot disclose the information to any third party without the individual's written permission. Title IX Baylor University does not discriminate on the basis of sex or gender in any of its education or employment programs and activities, and it does not tolerate discrimination or harassment on the basis of sex or gender. Clifton Robinson Tower, Suite 285 One Bear Place #97011 Waco, TX 76798 254-710-8454 titleix_coordinator@baylor.edu ReportingTrainingSIM/Title IX PoliciesFAQs General Information Colleges, Schools, Libraries & Research Admissions Administration Gateways For... About Baylor Anonymous Reporting Athletics Ask Baylor Bookstore Calendar Campus Map Directory Give Light Give to Baylor Illuminate Mental Health Resources News Pro Futuris Report It Search Social Media Title IX Baylor Libraries College of Arts & Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work George W. Truett Theological Seminary Graduate School Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Louise Herrington School of Nursing Research at Baylor University Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Engineering & Computer Science School of Music More Academics Undergraduate Admissions goBAYLOR Graduate Admissions Baylor Law School Admissions Social Work Graduate Programs George W. Truett Theological Seminary Admissions Online Graduate Professional Education Virtual Tour Visit Campus Annual Fire Safety and Security Notice Athletics Human Resources Marketing and Communications Office of General Counsel Office of the President Office of the Provost Operations, Finance & Administration Senior Administration Student Life University Advancement Baylor Alumni Faculty & Staff Online Graduate Professional Education Parents Prospective Faculty & Staff Prospective Students Students Copyright © Baylor® University. All rights reserved. Legal Disclosures. Baylor University • Waco, Texas 76798 • 1-800-229-5678 About Us Laura Johnson, Ph.D. Carolyn Hughes Christina Jeong Michael Noble Tracey Tevis Elysa Bucci Melissa Morie Josh Stephens Candace Huskey Mito Diaz-Espinoza, Ph.D External Investigators Title IX Case Management Team Members Policy & Procedures SIM/Title IX Policies Adaptable Resolution Federal Guidelines Key Points Amnesty Definitions Retaliation Confidentiality & Privacy Responsible Employee SB212 Reporting Prevention & Training Workshops and Programs Faculty & Staff Training Student Training Upcoming Events Title IX Training Materials for Title IX Personnel Investigator Training Hearing Officer Training Relevance Training Restorative Justice Training Mediation Training Advanced Title IX Investigator Training Title IX/VAWA Investigator Training Civil Rights/Title IX Sexual Misconduct Investigator Training Training in Restorative Practices and Campus Sexual Harm 2021 Campus Restorative Justice Across Student Affairs 2021 Reporting Resources Social Climate Surveys 2017 Social Climate Survey 2019 Social Climate Survey 2021 Social Climate Survey