× Please sign in You need to log in to use the bookmarking feature. Sign In Harvard Business School Sign in to Baker Library Baker Library | Bloomberg Center Search Find Services Ask Browse Databases Collections & Archives Guides Exhibits Find Books, Articles & More More Places HOLLIS Catalog Harvard Library Working Knowledge Service Type Research Curriculum Research Data Program See all... Service Audience Faculty Doctoral Students MBA Students Alumni Executive Education Staff Visiting Researchers Ask Us Ask a Question Fast Answers Policies Staff Directory How Do I... Request HBS Cases Plan A Visit Manage My Data Get Teaching Support Baker Library Databases Ask Us Special Collections Fast Answers All Services Hours Plan Your Visit Exhibits Hollis Working Knowledge HBS Home About Academic Programs Alumni Faculty & Research Baker Library Campaign Harvard Business Review Initiatives News Recruit Map / Directions Search Search Search Home Plan Your Visit Hours Hours Bookmark This Hours /plan-your-visit/hours Baker Library Hours 48 602 Hours /plan-your-visit/hours Baker Library Hours 48 602 Add My Librarian Item Filters The Baker Library | Bloomberg Center has multiple spaces available for study. Please take note of the times and types of access available to ensure your visit will be successful. The Stamps Reading Room is located on the third floor of Baker Library. Database access, including Bloomberg terminals, are available during all open hours. Reference assistance and stacks access are available during Information Service hours. The Bloomberg Exchange is located in the first floor lobby. It has areas for quiet or group study and Bloomberg terminals. Special Collections de Gaspé Beaubien Reading Room (First Floor) - Special Collections staff are available via email or phone Monday through Friday, 9 AM to 5 PM. Entry is by appointment only. HBS students, faculty, and staff: HUID allows tap entrance into the Stamps Reading Room during both Information Service and Quiet Study hours. Please note that building access during Quiet Study and on Sundays is limited to the South Entrance, and requires tap ID. HU students, faculty, and staff: HUID allows tap entrance into the Stamps Reading Room during Information Service hours only. Please note that building access on Sundays is limited to the South Entrance, and requires tap ID. For more information about hours or who can access our Reading Rooms, please see our Baker Library Policies page, or Ask Us. Back to top Today's HoursAll Hours Connect with Baker Map & Contacts Know Before You Go Library Spaces Staff Directory About the Library B4B Product Catalog Books@Baker Annual Reports Harvard Business School Baker Library | Bloomberg Center Soldiers Field Boston, MA 02163 Phone: 1.617.495.6040 Email: infoservices@hbs.edu Maps and Directions Facebook Twitter YouTube LinkedIn Instagram iTunes All Social Media Jobs Trademarks Site Map Harvard University Policies Digital Accessibility Copyright © 2022 President & Fellows of Harvard College.