Skip to main content Explore Brown University Search Brown Show/Hide powered by Learn More About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life Find A to Z Index People Directory Information for Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Top Destinations Global Brown Watson Institute Graduate School Alpert Medical School School of Public Health School of Engineering Center for Biomedical Engineering Center for Biomedical Engineering Search form Search About Facilities Centers + Initiatives CBME Mission Contact Us People Primary Faculty & Staff Committees Affiliated Faculty Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Research Academics BME Courses Undergraduate Program Graduate Program News Events About Facilities Centers + Initiatives CBME Mission Contact Us People Primary Faculty & Staff Committees Affiliated Faculty Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Research Academics BME Courses Undergraduate Program Graduate Program PhD Program Admission Requirements Apply Now Program Overview ScM Programs Admission Requirements 5th Year Apply Now Financing Program Overviews Request Information Careers BMEB Resources News Events ScM Program Overviews Program Requirements The following list is an overview of the requirements for the 3 program tracks for the Master of Science Degree in Biomedical Engineering. For more specific details, please refer to the Graduate Program Guidelines. Master of Science Research Track [ScM- Thesis (Research)] Master of Science Design Track [ScM- Thesis (Design)] Master of Science Non-Thesis Track [ScM - Non-Thesis] Master of Science Research Track [ScM- Thesis (Research)] Typical Full-Time Research Program Timeline: Must complete a minimum of 8 tuition units. up to 3 courses can be independent research credits at least 5 should be structured (non-independent study) advanced-level (1000 or 2000 level) courses at least 2 courses in biological topics at least 2 courses in engineering topics Must complete ethics training module. Must receive a grade of B or better, courses must be taken for a grade rather than credit/no credit. Must choose a thesis advisor in the first month of the first semester. Must carry out independent research through two academic years. Must present work as a seminar and pass final oral examination by Thesis Committee. The Thesis Committee is jointly selected by the student and the advisor. It consists of the thesis advisor and two other Brown faculty (one must have a primary faculty appointment in the School of Engineering, one with a primary faculty appointment in the Division of Biology and Medicine, and one listed as a primary faculty member in the Center for Biomedical Engineering). Must submit final thesis according to the Master's Thesis Guidelines. Master of Science Design Track [ScM- Thesis (Design)] Typical Full-Time Design Program Timeline: Must complete a minimum of 8 tuition units. ENGN1930L and ENGN1931L: Biomedical Engineering Innovation and Design I and II are required up to 1 course can be independent research at least 5 should be structured (non-independent study) advanced-level (1000 or 2000 level) courses at least 2 courses in biological topics at least 2 courses in engineering topics at most 1 design based course Must complete ethics training module. Must receive a grade of B or better, courses must be taken for a grade rather than credit/no credit. May work in a team up to 4 students. Must work on design project through two academic years. Must present prototype for critique and pass final oral examination by Thesis Committee. The Thesis Committee is jointly selected by the student and the advisor. It consists of the thesis advisor and two other Brown faculty (one must have a primary faculty appointment in the School of Engineering, one with a primary faculty appointment in the Division of Biology and Medicine, and one listed as a primary faculty member in the Center for Biomedical Engineering). It is also encouraged that one panel member have a design, industry, or clinical background. Each team member must submit final thesis according to the Master's Thesis Guidelines. Master of Science Non-Thesis Track [ScM - Non-Thesis] Typical Full-Time Non-Thesis Program Timeline: Must complete a minimum of 8 tuition units. no independent research credits all 8 should be structured (non-independent study) advanced-level (1000 or 2000 level) courses at least 3 courses in biological topics at least 3 courses in engineering topics Must receive a grade of B or better, courses must be taken for a grade rather than credit/no credit. Time to completion can be less than two academic years depending on the preference of the student. Important notes for all tracks: Credit for graduate level courses taken at Brown or elsewhere is not accepted or transferable. Do not register to audit a course. If you do, you will be charged for the course. An audited course does not count towards your degree. Do not register for BIOL 2230 or BIOL 2240: Biomedical Engineering and Biotechnology Seminar Course. If you register for BIOL 2230 or 2240, you will be charged for the course, and it will not count towards your degree. A master's student taking 2 or more courses per semester is considered a full-time student. Any student taking 1 course per semester is considered a part-time student for that semester. Part-time status can have implications for student loan repayments and visa status of international students. Important 2018-2019 Dates and Links for Incoming 2-year Masters Students DEADLINES and LINKS DATES Registration for 1st semester 9/4 Finalize semester schedule (shopping period ends) 9/20 Finalize choice of thesis advisor 10/5 Registration for 2nd semester 11/6-11/13 Classes of the 2nd semester begin 1/23 Finalize semester schedule (shopping period ends) 2/5 Registration for 3rd semester 4/16-4/23 Important 2018-2019 Dates for Concluding 2-year Masters Students DEADLINES and LINKS DATES Finalize semester schedule (shopping period ends) 9/20 Registration for final semester 11/6-11/13 Classes of the spring semester begin 1/23 Confirm thesis committee or critique panel with Masters Program Director 2/1 Finalize semester schedule (shopping period ends) 2/5 Schedule defense 2/8 Submit written thesis to committee or panel Two weeks before YOUR defense Apply to graduate 5/1 Submit thesis to grad school 5/3 Before coming to Brown Admitted Students Guide Finding a research advisor: Any of our core faculty or affiliated faculty can be a research advisor. The core faculty page can be sorted by research interests. Descriptions of projects recruiting Masters students are available from the Masters Program Director. Students can also search on Researchers @ Brown for other research interests. Students are encouraged to reach out to faculty ASAP to inquire about availability in their lab and setting up an interview. Beyond our Academic Programming gBMES Center for Biomedical Engineering LinkedIn Group Other Professional Development Resources: Office of Graduate and Postdoctoral Studies (Division of Biology and Medicine) Ombuds CareerLAB The Writing Center The Harriet W. Sheridan Center for Teaching and Learning The Swearer Center The Brown Design Workshop PhD Program Admission Requirements Apply Now Program Overview ScM Programs Admission Requirements 5th Year Apply Now Financing Program Overviews Request Information Careers BMEB Resources Contact Center for Biomedical Engineering Brown University Box A-2 Arnold Lab 91 Waterman Street, Suite 211 Providence, RI 02912 +1-401-863-6778 [email protected] Quicklinks Apply Now Research Faculty Academics Give to CBME Giving to Brown Brown University Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-1000 Maps & Directions / Contact Us © 2016 Brown University Connect: [email protected] Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram iTunes U Google+ LinkedIn SnapChat