Skip to main content Google Tag Manager Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Home Research Education News Events People About Giving Shop Contact Us Biology & Paleo Environment Tree Ring Lab Core Repository Geochemistry Hudson River Field Station Marine Geology & Geophysics Marine/Large Programs Office of Marine Operations Ocean & Climate Physics Seismology, Geology and Tectonophysics Rock & Ice Mechanics Lab Visitor Opportunities Core Repository Hudson River Field Station Open House Student & Educator Programs Rockland P.L.U.S. Day in the Life of the Hudson Secondary School Field Research Summer Intern Programs Next Gen Hudson River Educators Earth2Class Resources Polar Science Climate & Sustainability Hudson River Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs Earth Science News Lamont in the Media Newsletter News Archive All Events Earth Science Colloquium Series Biology & Paleo Environment Seminars Geochemistry Seminars Geodynamics Seminars Marine Geology & Geophysics/Seismology, Geology & Tectonophysics Seminars Ocean & Climate Physics Seminars Summer Stars Lecture Series History Director's Office Director's Reports Academic Affairs & Diversity Anti-Racism Commitment Alumni Awards The Vetlesen Prize Lamont Awards Outside Awards Climate Center Luminaries & Signature Events Annual Reports Lamont Features Map Careers Open Positions Postdoctoral Fellowships Research Visitors Visitor Info Contact & Directions Shuttle Schedule Campus Café Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory You are here: Home News Searching for the Megathrust Fault at Cascadia Earth Sciences Searching for the Megathrust Fault at Cascadia Researchers have set sail to find and map a fault that causes giant earthquakes in the Pacific Northwest. By Suzanne Carbotte June 29, 2021 We are under way on our nearly six-week-long expedition, traveling along the coast of Oregon to British Columbia to investigate the Cascadia Subduction Zone. This subduction zone has been the site of past “megathrust” earthquakes, which are the largest earthquakes that happen on Earth, but is eerily quiet at present, with little seismicity detected within the Oregon to Washington portion. Scientists believe this lack of seismicity reflects the “locked” state of the megathrust fault at present, with stress quietly accumulating as the Juan de Fuca plate system continues to dive (subduct) beneath North America. All or part of that built-up stress will eventually be released in the next great earthquake. Little is known about the properties or even the location of the portion of the fault zone that generates the large destructive earthquakes. During our cruise, we are using sound to probe under the seafloor looking for the megathrust fault deep beneath several kilometers of sediments that cover the down-going Juan de Fuca plate. Our survey, which is funded by the National Science Foundation, will be the first-ever seismic imaging study to span almost the entire Cascadia subduction zone. We will be using modern advanced seismic imaging technology to detect and characterize fine-scale structures within the subduction zone to help address a range of scientific questions pertaining to earthquake and tsunami hazards within the Pacific Northwest region. For our investigation we are making use of Columbia University’s R/V Marcus G. Langseth, one of the large global-class research vessels within the NSF-supported Academic Research Fleet. The Langseth is a unique ship within the research fleet, equipped for advanced seismic imaging, with a high-quality sound source and capable of towing an array of listening devices called hydrophones up to 15 kilometers long behind the ship to listen to the echoes returned from the seafloor and deep below. Top: A diagram of the Cascadia Fault, with the Juan de Fuca plate sliding under the North American plate. The red arrows point to the potential areas that may be responsible for the fault’s largest earthquakes. Bottom: A diagram showing the ship’s sound emitters and sound waves bouncing off of different layers below the seafloor. A streamer of hydrophones towed behind the ship listens for these echoes. We have a terrific team onboard of scientists and students from Columbia University, University of Texas Institute for Geophysics, Woods Hole Oceanographic Institution, University of Washington, and Oregon State University/NOAA. We also have expert science technicians who operate the advanced seismic equipment and teach us along the way, marine mammal observers who let us know when marine mammals are nearby so that we don’t bother them with our sound equipment, and the Langseth’s most capable officers and crew who ensure the conduct of our survey and the safe operation of our ship. For most of us this is our first time with a group of people outside our “bubbles” since the pandemic began, and we are thrilled to be together underway on this expedition. Tags cascadia Earthquakes illuminating the cascadia subduction zone Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory Pacific Northwest research-home subduction zones News May 31, 2022 Aurora Barone Looks for Equitable Ways to Cut Carbon Emissions May 27, 2022 Sylhet City, Geology, and Packing Up May 25, 2022 Community-Led Science Uncovers High Air Pollution From Fracking in Ohio County May 20, 2022 Start of the Mini-Field School May 17, 2022 Lazy Bears and Confused Birds: What a Warming Planet Means for Wildlife Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory61 Route 9W · Palisades, NY 10964 Phone 845-359-2900 Contact Us [email protected] Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close