Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Graduate School Future Students Current Students Degrees News & Events Resources Contact Us Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact Future Students Explore Programs Admissions Tuition + Aid On-Campus Employment Living in Memphis Entrance Exams Take Action Apply Now! Degree Programs Calendar Contact Us Follow Us Online InstagramFacebooktwitter Home Graduate School Future Students Request Info > Visit > Apply > Are you driven to do more? THE DRIVE Are you a recent graduate with your eyes on the horizon? Are you motivated to continue mastering the knowledge and skills you gained through your previous college experience? Keep the academic momentum going and explore the master and doctoral degree programs at the UofM. Go Forward. THE CLIMB Are you a full-time professional with a desire to get to the next level? The flexible, affordable and accredited graduate degree programs at the UofM can equip you with the necessary know-how to help you rise. Step Up. THE TURN Are you thinking about switching to a more rewarding career? Follow your passion and keep pace with the ever- changing needs of today’s workforce. Discover which industry is the best fit for you. Change Lanes. Explore Program Options Master's Degrees We offer 60 programs with 140+ concentrations. Master Programs > Doctoral Degrees Explore our 55+ program concentration areas. Doc Programs > Graduate Certificates Earn a certificate in just four courses. Grad Certificates > Law School Earn your JD from the UofM School of Law. Law School Site > Non-Degree Seeking Need a refresher? Want to take a class for fun? Non-Degree Info > Bachelor's + Master's Earn up to 12 grad credits as a Combination Senior. Combination Info > Apply to UofM Grad School Application requirements vary by program. View requirements prior to starting your application by selecting the "Applicant Information" link for your chosen academic department in the Graduate School directory. Applications are available online at Apply for Graduate Admissions. A non-refundable application and processing fee of $35 U.S. is required of a domestic applicant and processing fee of $60 U.S. is required of an international applicant. Apply to Grad School > International Students International Student Services does not handle international admissions, but they are available to answer any questions about the admissions process and will provide assistance with steps required after you are admitted. Learn more and contact International Student Services > Cost + Aid Our programs are award-winning, accredited and affordable. Finances shouldn't stand in the way of you achieving your dreams. That's why we offer an array of scholarships and graduate assistantships. UofM has a tuition cap for graduate resident students, which means all credit hours above 10 will be offered at no additional tuition charge (with the exception of related course fees). Cost of Attendance Estimator Estimate your tuition and other associated fees including housing and meals. Financial Aid Learn more about funding and financial aid for graduate students. Scholarships Graduate students can apply for competitive scholarships in Tiger Scholarship Manager. Contact the Scholarship Office for more information. Graduate Assistantships Graduate teaching and research assistantships are available in most of the academic areas, requiring 3-20 hours of service per week. Learn more about responsibilities and opportunities. Fellowships and Awards While some awards require a nomination by a college/department, there are opportunities available for which you can apply. Federal Assistance Opportunities Explore external funding resources including FAFSA, federal tax benefits for students, opportunities for women and minorities and more. Veterans Educational Benefits & Certification Veterans, learn more about utilizing your educational benefits. Education + Practical Experience There are opportunities for on-campus employment. At the UofM, we strive to provide students with real-world, technical, resume-building work that offers compensation. We partner with influential companies and many students go on to work full-time for these same companies after graduation. For example, University of Memphis Research Foundation (UMRF) Ventures Inc. hires UofM students for good-paying jobs with Fortune 500 companies like FedEx while facilitating collaborations with corporations, agencies and organizations that help to grow Memphis. You may also apply for a graduate assistant (GA) position. If awarded a GA position, you will work 20 hours per week in addition to your course- load. In return, you will receive tuition reimbursement and a monthly stipend. Learn more about GA opportunities > Culture + Career Connections When you choose the University of Memphis, you're also choosing the City of Memphis. Memphis sits at the crossroads of international commerce, culture and creativity. Learn more about the City of Memphis > The UofM is located in a metropolitan area, home to some of the most renowned Fortune 500 companies. That proximity opens up a wealth of career, networking and internship opportunities for our students — making Memphis a great place to expand your education. Here is a small sample of our partnering companies: AutoZone Baptist Memorial Health Care Bosch C.H. Robinson Cisco Cummins Elsevier FedEx First Tennessee Hilton Worldwide Homeland Security Intel International Paper Master IT Methodist Le Bonheur Healthcare New Horizons Northwestern Mutual Orion Federal Credit Union ReTrans Sherwin-Williams Smith & Nephew Target Terminix Thomas & Betts Walgreens Pfizer Raymond James Financial Graduate Student & Family Housing One-Bedroom and Two-Bedroom Options | Located on the Park Avenue Campus Moving to Memphis and need affordable, convenient housing? The Park Avenue Campus is just one mile from the main campus. The residents are comprised of students, spouses and students' children. ADA accessible apartments are available. Learn more and apply for housing > Entrance Exams COVID-19 Response: Limited-Time Offers The UofM Graduate School is committed to assisting you in your academic pursuits and offering temporary allowances to further your education in response to COVID-19. Applying to graduate school is an important decision, especially during these challenging times, and our faculty and staff at the Graduate School are here to help you every step of the way. Learn more about standardized test waivers and alternate English proficiency test options > Test Score Information If your program of choice requires an entrance exam, view institutional codes and learn more about test requirements > GRE Fee Reduction Students who meet need-based guidelines may receive a GRE Fee Reduction voucher to take the General Test and/or a Subject Test for 50 percent of the full test fee. Learn more > Viewbook Request Info > Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 5/26/22 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.