Skip to main content Menu Resources Home Admissions Campus Life Academics Visit Outreach Research About Apply or Give Apply Now Make a Gift Brand Typography Fonts are carefully designed to convey a personality, and these were chosen to convey Clemson’s personality. Some are formal, some casual, some bold and some elegant. All convey a different side of the Clemson brand and should be used as carefully as any other element of design. Brand fonts are available to campus communicators who are producing marketing and promotional collateral. Contact Dave Dryden at drydend@clemson.edu. Alternatively, purchase links are included below. Primary serif typeface Tiempos Our primary serif typeface looks editorial yet fresh. This typeface proved itself to be a solid embodiment of the Clemson dichotomy – traditional yet modern and innovative. Offering a wide range of faces, particularly in its text set, it is more legible than past typefaces, including Goudy. Its “fine” set of styles offer sharp serifs and high contrast, adding to the legibility. Tiempos Purchase Primary sans serif typeface Trade Gothic Next LT The primary sans serif typeface provides more diversity in an existing font. Clemson already has invested heavily in the use of Trade Gothic. This new, refined version adds some additional styles and weights to the family of fonts already in use campuswide. A “draftsman” font, this mechanical, tactile and architectural font fits Clemson’s work ethic, serving as the humble, perhaps more blue-collar font of our font family. Trade Gothic Next LT Activate for free with Adobe CC Secondary sans serif typeface Biotif An alternate sans serif typeface, Biotif presents as a slightly more rounded geometric sans serif and has a particularly modern and cutting-edge aesthetic to it and presents as the most dramatic change to our typeface family. Biotif feels modern and innovative; it looks toward future discovery rather than past achievements and experiences, embodying Clemson’s goal to be a top research institute solving global problems. Biotif Purchase Custom Typefaces OLD HALL SLAB SERIF There are times when the need for form eclipses function. This custom display typeface, developed by Clemson University Relations, mirrors the architectural lettering found on historic campus buildings. It offers a nod to our distinguished history while lending a distinctive look within our brand font family. OLD HALL SLAB SERIF Contact University Relations for access PAW HAMMER Developed for Clemson Athletics, this typeface has a bold and powerful aesthetic. Use of Paw Hammer is primarily intended for use in athletic contexts and should only be used for headlines and text with limited characters. PAW HAMMER Body text The legibility and consistency of our body text and its ability to pair with our primary and alternate fonts denote this font family, selected for the new brand. Hoefler Text Largely designed to optimize long-form copy to make legible and comfortable for the reader, Hoefler Text identifies as an industry standard serif for body text, and its form identifies as a classic, Roman serif face for use in long-form print and on the web. Hoefler Text Purchase Goudy Old Style The “legacy” font of Clemson, Goudy has been used for many years and is most associated with the brand because of its role in the logo. Should be used exclusively for high-level institutional communications and presidential use. Goudy Old Style Purchase Scripts These fonts should be used contextually, either for formal or decorative purposes, and not heavily used in branding applications. Relation or Bickman might be considered as accents for display text, ornamental or embellishment purposes, and they are free and available through Clemson’s Adobe fonts CC license. Relation Script Relation Script Activate for free with Adobe CC Turbindao Font Turbindao Font Activate for free with Adobe CC Bickham Script Bickham Script Activate for free with Adobe CC Nautica Font Nautica Font Activate for free with Adobe CC Home Positioning Guides Color Palette Logos Logo Usage and Limitations Typography Photography Voice and Style Making It Real Sub Brand Guidelines Alumni Brand Standards Athletics Brand Standards Clemson Forward Brand Standards Development Brand Standards CU-ICAR Brand Standards Student Affairs Brand Standards Additional Resources Social Media Guidelines Web Style Guide Collegiate Licensing Program Home Admissions Campus Life Academics Visit Outreach Research About Apply To Clemson Undergraduate Graduate Professional Online Education Employment Opportunities Policy/Terms of Use Text Version Web Accessibility Ethics/Safety Hotline Privacy Policy Site Information Copyright © 2022 Clemson University Clemson, South Carolina 29634 864-656-3311 Contact Clemson Stories for the Clemson Family Clemson University on Facebook Clemson University on Twitter Clemson University on LinkedIn Clemson University on Flickr Clemson University on Instagram