Skip to main content Skip to primary site menu Skip to primary site search Google Tag Manager Office of Institutional Equity and Diversity (OIED) Show/Hide About Compliance and Oversight Action Plans Initiatives Resources Incident Reporting Events Undergraduate Recruitment Undergraduate Admission Undergraduate Admission actively recruits students and sponsors matriculation programs that encourage underrepresented students to consider Brown. An overnight visit during A Day on College Hill brings admitted students to campus to encourage their matriculation at Brown. The office also hosts annual open houses for prospective Black and Latino Students, as well as receptions in major urban areas across the country that inform prospective students on the admissions process, the academic program, and the community of color at Brown. Special Recruitment Initiatives Military Veterans The Office of Military-Affililated Students provides student veterans and current or prospective officer commissioning program participants with the tools and resources needed to succeed at Brown. Need-Blind Admission At Brown, the ability of applicants to pay for their education is not a factor in the admission decision. This policy applies to all U.S. Citizens and Permanent Residents regardless of the program to which the applicant has applied. Sidney E. Frank Scholars In September 2004, Sidney E. Frank, a member of the class of 1942, made a gift of $100 million to Brown University to establish an endowed scholarship fund that provides financial assistance for undergraduate students, who could not otherwise afford the full cost of tuition and other costs of receiving an education at Brown. Recipients of the scholarships receive financial assistance that replaces standard loan expectations with additional scholarship. Resources Training Resources Request Consultation/Training Resources for Anti-Racism Resources for Virtual Environments Explore Brown University Search Brown Show/Hide Learn More About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life Find A to Z Index People Directory Information for Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Top Destinations Global Brown Watson Institute Graduate School Alpert Medical School School of Public Health School of Engineering Contact Office of Institutional Equity and Diversity Office of Institutional Equity and Diversity Brown University Box 1988 Horace Mann, Third Floor Providence, RI 02912 Phone: 401-863-2216 Email [email protected] Giving to Brown Brown University Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-1000 Maps & Directions / Contact Us / Accessibility © 2022 Brown University Connect: [email protected] Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram iTunes U LinkedIn SnapChat