Skip to main content Harvard University 1 site notification Latest COVID Information Search Search Quick Links Find a Person A to Z Index Menu Academics Academics Explore all programs Browse all of our undergraduate concentrations, graduate degrees, and professional certificates. Harvard Schools Academics Visit each School for information on admissions and financial aid. Explore more Harvard College Harvard Business School Harvard Division of Continuing Education Harvard Divinity School Harvard Faculty of Arts and Sciences Harvard Graduate School of Arts and Sciences Harvard Graduate School of Design Harvard Graduate School of Education Harvard John A. Paulson School of Engineering and Applied Sciences Harvard Kennedy School Harvard Law School Harvard Medical School Harvard Radcliffe Institute Harvard School of Dental Medicine Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health Professional and lifelong learning Free online courses More about academics at Harvard Campus Campus Harvard's Campus Get tickets to our next game, hours and locations for our libraries and museums, and information about your next career move. Libraries Campus Explore our libraries Arnold Arboretum Horticultural Library Baker Library and Special Collections Biblioteca Berenson Botany Libraries Cabot Science Library Countway Library Dumbarton Oaks Research Library Ernst Mayr Library Fine Arts Library Frances Loeb Library Fung Library Gutman Library Harvard Divinity School Library Harvard Film Archive Harvard Law School Library Harvard Map Collection Harvard University Archives Harvard-Yenching Library HKS Library and Knowledge Services Houghton Library Lamont Library Loeb Music Library Robbins Library of Philosophy Schlesinger Library on the History of Women in America Tozzer Library Widener Library Wolbach Library Woodberry Poetry Room Museums Campus Explore our museums The Arnold Arboretum Carpenter Center for the Visual Arts Collection of Historical Scientific Instruments Graduate School of Design Exhibitions Harvard Art Museums Harvard Forest Harvard Museum of Natural History The Harvard Museum of the Ancient Near East Harvard Museums of Science and Culture Harvard University Herbaria Mineralogical and Geological Museum Museum of Comparative Zoology The Peabody Museum of Archaeology and Ethnology Warren Anatomical Museum Athletics Work at Harvard Events Commencement Campus Harvard Commencement for the Class of 2022 Harvard Commencement for the Classes of 2020 & 2021 In Focus In Focus Explore and understand the world with Harvard In Focus is a curated examination of Harvard's research, scholarly work, and community. Recent topics include: Commencement 2022 In Focus Celebrating the Graduates Highlighting the accomplishments and celebrating the bright futures of Harvard’s most recent grads Meet this year's graduates What's inside? The Harvard Gazette's coverage of this year's Commencement Explore each School's events Mental Health In Focus Mental Health Awareness Month To commemorate Mental Health Awareness Month, the Harvard community is exploring how we cope with, manage, and understand mental health and how it impacts our lives. View the feature What's inside? Is a mobile app as good as a therapist? Bipolar breakthrough Climate Solutions In Focus Climate Solutions Faculty and students from across the Harvard community are working on ways to address climate change and its effects. Explore these adaptations What's inside? Zero-waste architecture Better batteries inspired by a BLT Explore the In Focus archives Visit Visit Visit Harvard Ideas and assistance for your trip to our campus. Tours Maps and Directions About About About Harvard Information on how Harvard is structured, explore our long history, and discover our extended community. History of Harvard About History of Harvard Harvard is perhaps best-known because of its enduring history of innovation in education. But even die-hard Harvard buffs are not likely to know all of these Harvard firsts and historical snippets. Learn more History timeline Nobel Laureates Honorary Degrees Harvard Shields Leadership and Governance About Learn about our Leadership Officers and Deans Harvard Corporation Board of Overseers University Professorships Diversity and Inclusion Endowment Harvard in the Community Harvard in the World News News The Harvard Gazette Official news from Harvard University about science, medicine, art, campus life, University issues, and broader national and global concerns. Trending News Stories News Read more news Jacinda Ardern’s forceful reminder: Democracies can die New Zealand Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern delivers warning on erosion of trust in her Commencement address, urging social media reforms and calling on individuals to reject tribalism. Harvard awards seven honorary degrees During today’s Commencement ceremony in Tercentenary Theatre, Harvard will recognize seven with an honorary degree. Humans hot, sweaty, natural-born runners Hairless, clawless, and largely weaponless, ancient humans used the unlikely combination of sweatiness and relentlessness to gain the upper hand over their faster, stronger, generally more dangerous animal prey, Harvard Anthropology Professor Daniel Lieberman said Thursday (April 12). Pursuit of joy starts with truth, Wu tells graduates Class Day speaker Michelle Wu ’07, J.D. ’12, urged the class of 2022 to hold fast to Harvard’s founding motto “veritas,” or truth. Sign up for the Daily Gazette Navigation Quick Links A to Z Index Find a Person Events Media Relations Alumni Give Now Harvard University Close Resolutions In Focus Resolutions Mental Health Climate Solutions Celebrating the Class of ’22 Whether you want to make small improvements to your lifestyle or treat yourself to some self-care, the Harvard community can help you start something new this year. This year I’ll … Learn something new from Harvard Take a Harvard course Find inner peace Read a great book Age gracefully Better understand food Lead a greener life Explore interesting topics A guide to keeping your resolution Moving forward, even slowly, puts your goals within reach. Read more on The Harvard Gazette Take a free Harvard course Explore our free and paid online courses Free Course 3 weeks Introduction to Programming Available now Free Course 6 weeks Backyard Meteorology Available now Free Course 8 weeks Women Making History Available now Free Course 8 weeks Modern Masterpieces of World Literature Available now Free Course 14 weeks Food Fermentation Available now Free Course 14 weeks The Einstein Revolution Available now Back to the top Practice mindfulness Research on the health benefits of mindfulness and meditation are beginning to confirm what some have known for thousands of years. Learn more about mindfulness and meditation Eight weeks to a better brain “Although the practice of meditation is associated with a sense of peacefulness and physical relaxation, practitioners have long claimed that meditation also provides cognitive and psychological benefits that persist throughout the day,” says Sara Lazar. Read more on The Harvard Gazette Less stress, clearer thoughts The popularity of mindfulness has been fueled by research that indicates it can reduces stress and promotes emotional well-being. Read more on The Harvard Gazette Be kind and unwind “I feel like everyone has something to get from meditation, whether it’s for mental health or just to recharge yourself,” says Liz Pomerantz administrator for the Systems, Synthetic and Quantitative Biology Ph.D. program. Read more from the Medical School How to get started 1. Sit Sit on a straight-backed chair or comfortably on the floor. 2. Focus Focus on your breath and pay attention to things such as the sensations of air flowing into your nostrils and out of your mouth, or your belly rising and falling as you inhale and exhale. 3. Expand Once you’ve narrowed your concentration in this way, begin to widen your focus. Become aware of sounds, sensations, and ideas. 4. Embrace Embrace and consider each thought or sensation without judging it good or bad. If your mind starts to race, return your focus to your breathing. Then expand your awareness again. Back to the top Read a great book Explore these recommendations from all across the Harvard community. Some favorites from librarians who know books Read more from the Harvard Libraries Recommendations from the School of Education for children, parents, and teachers Learn more from the Graduate School of Education Picks for art enthusiasts from art enthusiasts Learn more from the Harvard Art Museums Divine recommendations from the Divinity School Learn more from the Divinity School Books for leaders from the Business School Learn more from the Business School The Law School's current favorite books Learn more from the Law School Harvard faculty and staff reading recommendations Read more on The Harvard Gazette Back to the top Make adjustments for healthy aging Discover the latest research from experts at Harvard Medical School and Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health. Reduce the risk of chronic diseases Those who practice these healthy habits at age 50 live more years free of chronic diseases. Learn more from the Harvard Gazette Good genes are nice, but joy is better An 80-year Harvard study shows that embracing community helps us live longer and be happier. Learn more from the Harvard Gazette Stay active, even just a little “Because we evolved to be active throughout our lives, our bodies need physical activity to age well,” says Harvard evolutionary biologist Daniel E. Lieberman. Learn more from the Harvard Gazette Skip the salt, grab the bananas Less sodium and more potassium could be key to lowering the risk of cardiovascular disease. Learn more from the Harvard Gazette Back to the top Better understand food Our Harvard experts explain the latest studies on nutrition and diet. Healthy diets may reduce the risk of premature death When eating a low-carbohydrate or low-fat diet, choosing healthy foods is key to reducing the risk of premature death, according to a study led by researchers from Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health. Protein, fat, or carbs? Research finds that consuming more carbs, fat, or protein can promote good health as long as they are part of an overall sensible and varied diet. One egg is enough Consuming up to one egg per day does not appear to be associated with cardiovascular disease risk. Food to grow old with Research shows that older men who maintain healthier diets are 25% less likely to develop physical impairment with aging. The healthy planet diet A webinar series takes a closer look at how to eat, in the broadest sense, sustainably. Back to the top Go greener Our Office for Sustainability empowers everyone to be stewards of the future by translating research into practice. Learn more about the Office for Sustainability Tips for sustainable eating Learn more about planet healthy eating Home energy saving tips Learn more about creating a greener home Ways to minimize your e-waste Learn more about e-waste Steps to reduce your energy consumption Learn more about energy reduction Tactics to reduce food waste Learn more about cutting down on waste Steps to reduce your carbon footprint Learn more about green travel tips Back to the top Learn something new Expand your knowledge and explore new topics with these videos and podcasts. How mRNA vaccines work ‘Harvard Explains’ This ongoing video series aims to explain how everything works. Explore the full playlist Should we make everyone vote? How machine learning works What are numbers? Podcasts Find a Harvard podcast that’s right for you. Explore our Soundcloud playlists 41 episodes ~30 minutes HMSC Connects! 41 episodes ~30 minutes Go behind the scenes of the Harvard Museums of Science and Culture and hear scholars, researchers, collection keepers, exhibit designers, and other fascinating individuals. 22 episodes ~20 minutes Veritalk 22 episodes ~20 minutes This podcast from Harvard's Graduate School of Arts and Sciences is your window into the minds of Ph.D. students. 229 episodes ~30 minutes PolicyCast 229 episodes ~30 minutes Leading experts in public policy, media, and international affairs talk about their experiences confronting the world's most pressing public problems. 26 episodes ~30 minutes Ask a Harvard professor 26 episodes ~30 minutes Delve into the origins of hip-hop music, the role of chance in photography, whether marijuana is harmful to the brain, and much more. 389 episodes ~20 minutes EdCast 389 episodes ~20 minutes Lowering the barriers of education’s complexities so that everyone can understand, through authentic conversation with teachers, researchers, policymakers, and leaders of schools. 160 episodes ~30 minutes Cold Call 160 episodes ~30 minutes Harvard Business School’s legendary case studies, distilled into podcast form. Back to the top Security & Brand Report Copyright Infringement Report Security Issue Trademark Notice Website Accessibility Digital Accessibility Privacy Statement Get In Touch Contact Harvard Maps & Directions Jobs © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube 0:00 0:00