Skip to content Xavier University Apply to Xavier Request Info Visit Campus Giving to Xavier Open search dialog Open Navigation Menu Undergraduate Admission Admission Process Undergraduate Application Tuition and Aid Visit Campus Make Your Commitment Contact Us Close Undergraduate Admission sub menu Graduate Admission Apply to Xavier Graduate Financial Aid Events and Information Sessions Contact Us Close Graduate Admission sub menu Academics Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs Student Outcomes Academic Support Education Abroad Honors Programs Xavier University Colleges Close Academics sub menu Campus Life Residence Halls Campus Dining Options Clubs and Organizations Diversity Faith and Service Recreational Sports Cincinnati Health and Wellness First-Year Experience Close Campus Life sub menu Athletics goxavier.com Close Athletics sub menu About Xavier Xavier University Rankings Mission, Vision, and Values What is Jesuit Education? Close About Xavier sub menu Apply to Xavier Request Info Visit Campus Giving to Xavier Current Students Alumni Relations Employees Parents and Families Employment Opportunities Maps and Directions Search Xavier University: Search Athletics Your Guide to Xavier Athletics Explore the world of Xavier Athletics, from tickets and schedules to Musketeer traditions and ways to get involved. GoXavier.com The official athletics website for the Xavier Musketeers. Find details about Xavier's 18 D-1 sports teams, ticket information, schedules, traditions and the latest news. Explore GoXavier.com BIG EAST Conference Xavier is proud to be part of the BIG EAST Conference with fellow private schools Butler, Creighton, DePaul, Georgetown, Marquette, Providence, St. John's, Seton Hall, and Villanova. BIG EAST Breakdown Mascots Xavier is one of a handful of universities in the country with more than one mascot. D'Artagnan serves as the official mascot of the Xavier University athletic teams. The Blue Blob serves as a secondary mascot. Xavier Mascots X-Treme Fans This student-led group promotes school spirit through supporting all 18 D-1 Xavier athletic teams. Think blue paint, chants, campouts for tickets and Fat Heads. X-Treme Fans Tickets Tickets are free for full-time undergraduate students. Single game tickets and season tickets for the Xavier Musketeers can be purchased on GoXavier.com. Purchase Tickets Big time Athletics. Bigger Spirit. We're proud of our numerous BIG EAST athletic championships, and we also celebrate our student-athlete successes in the classroom. #4 Students Pack the StadiumPrinceton Review, 2020 18 D-1 Sports Teams 100% Graduation RateAmong Senior Basketball Players Trending in the AFO Shop Get into the game and support your team with our collection of Xavier apparel & accessories. View in Store View in Store View in Store View in Store Apply to Xavier Request Info Visit Campus Xavier University 3800 Victory Parkway Cincinnati, OH 45207 513-745-3000 Privacy Policy Accessibility Policy Non-Discrimination Policy Editor Access Xavier University on facebook Xavier University on twitter Xavier University on linkedin Xavier University on youtube Xavier University on instagram