Skip to Main Content Penn Psychiatry Search Penn Psychiatry Perelman School of Medicine Navigate Penn Psychiatry About show submenu for About Our Vision And Mission History Of Psychiatry At Penn Collaborations Contact Us Patient Care show submenu for Patient Care Overview Outpatient Services Outpatient Psychiatry Center Psychotherapists Inpatient & Assessment Services Corporate Services show submenu for Corporate Services PBH Corporate Services / EAP show submenu for PBH Corporate Services / EAP Welcome to our Work / Life portal SOLUTION Professionalism Program Your EAP Team Research show submenu for Research Overview Clinical Research Addiction Behavioral Regulation and Health Molecular and Neural Basis of Psychiatric Disease Section Mood, Anxiety and Trauma Neurodevelopment & Psychosis Population Mental Health Publications show submenu for Publications Penn Psychiatry Perspective Newsletter Education/Training show submenu for Education/Training Overview Penn Psychiatry Resident’s View of the Department Medical Student Education Residency Training Postdoctoral Fellowships Clinical Psychology Continuing Education Faculty show submenu for Faculty Executive Cabinet Faculty Listing Clinical Faculty Open Faculty Positions Events show submenu for Events Grand Rounds Division Seminars Psychiatry Calendar of Events News show submenu for News Strecker Award Wellness Resources show submenu for Wellness Resources Mindfulness Exercises show submenu for Mindfulness Exercises Walking Mindfulness Breathing Mindfulness Body Scan / Progressive Body Awareness Mindfulness of Thoughts Thoughts, Body Sensations & Emotions Compassion Mindfulness Mountain Meditation Mindfulness of Physical Discomfort Mindfulness of Difficult / Painful Thoughts Eating Mindfulness Other Wellness Resources Join the Covid Conversation A Brief Mindfulness Exercise Facilitated by Lily Brown Free Therapy and Med Management for Penn Medicine Providers Physical Exercise Virtual Museum Tours Entertainment Penn Medicine Wellness Close Menu About Our Vision And Mission History Of Psychiatry At Penn Collaborations Contact Us Patient Care Overview Outpatient Services Outpatient Psychiatry Center Psychotherapists Inpatient & Assessment Services Corporate Services PBH Corporate Services / EAP show submenu for PBH Corporate Services / EAP Welcome to our Work / Life portal SOLUTION Professionalism Program Your EAP Team Research Overview Clinical Research Addiction Behavioral Regulation and Health Molecular and Neural Basis of Psychiatric Disease Section Mood, Anxiety and Trauma Neurodevelopment & Psychosis Population Mental Health Publications Penn Psychiatry Perspective Newsletter Education/Training Overview Penn Psychiatry Resident’s View of the Department Medical Student Education Residency Training Postdoctoral Fellowships Clinical Psychology Continuing Education Faculty Executive Cabinet Faculty Listing Clinical Faculty Open Faculty Positions Events Grand Rounds Division Seminars Psychiatry Calendar of Events News Strecker Award Wellness Resources show submenu for Wellness Resources Mindfulness Exercises show submenu for Mindfulness Exercises Walking Mindfulness Breathing Mindfulness Body Scan / Progressive Body Awareness Mindfulness of Thoughts Thoughts, Body Sensations & Emotions Compassion Mindfulness Mountain Meditation Mindfulness of Physical Discomfort Mindfulness of Difficult / Painful Thoughts Eating Mindfulness Other Wellness Resources Join the Covid Conversation A Brief Mindfulness Exercise Facilitated by Lily Brown Free Therapy and Med Management for Penn Medicine Providers Physical Exercise Virtual Museum Tours Entertainment Penn Medicine Wellness Patients Overview Outpatient Services Inpatient & Assessment Services Research Overview Clinical Research Addiction Behavioral Regulation and Health Molecular and Neural Basis of Psychiatric Disease Section Mood, Anxiety and Trauma Neurodevelopment & Psychosis Population Mental Health Education Overview Penn Psychiatry Resident’s View of the Department Medical Student Education Residency Training Postdoctoral Fellowships Clinical Psychology Continuing Education Patient Care For more information 1-866-301-4PBH(4724) About Penn Psychiatry CPUP Committee on Anti-Racism In recognition of the pervasive problem of structural racism in health care systems, and the uneasy history of racial discrimination locally and in society at large, the Clinical Practices of the University of Pennsylvania has made a conscious commitment to tangible change. This is an ingrained, sustained, societal problem that needs to be addressed, remedied and fixed. This CPUP Committee on Anti-Racism has been formed to contribute to effecting that change. This Committee is committed to making concrete, positive and fundamental changes to reject and eliminate the longstanding and established disparities and inequities which provide support, and form the basis of racist views, actions, attitudes, and philosophies. This is a marathon, not a sprint! Click here to learn more. A warm welcome to Penn, the birthplace of Psychiatry! It is a pleasure to introduce you to the vibrant Department of Psychiatry of the Perelman School of Medicine at the University of Pennsylvania. Penn Psychiatry excels in research, education and, providing the most cutting-edge psychiatric care to our patients. Importantly, Penn Psychiatry is devoted to ensuring that we care for our community not only through direct mental health care, but also through civic engagement, advocacy and work to improve public policy relevant to psychiatry. At Penn Psychiatry, we train the next generation of leaders in patient care and research in just about every area in Psychiatry. In addition to our excellent programs for medical students and residents, we offer a panoply of advanced training programs including multiple research fellowships and tracks (T32s and R25s), clinical fellowships in all ACGME approved subspecialties, Public Psychiatry fellowships, Psychology Internships and more. The psychiatry research portfolio at Penn, the VA and Children’s Hospital of Philadelphia is expansive and Penn Psychiatry routinely ranks in the top 5 for NIH funding. The range includes molecular mechanisms of neuropsychiatric conditions, neurocircuitry, implementation science, neuromodulation, and health policy research, to name a few. There is world class research occurring here across the spectrum of disciplines relevant to psychiatry. Innovation in clinical services is the hallmark of Penn Psychiatry. Whether it is Penn Integrated Care (PIC), based on the collaborative care model or Mental Health Engagement, Navigation and Delivery (MEND) based on behavioral intervention teams, the outstanding clinical faculty at Penn are constantly devising the best solutions based on evidence to deliver high quality, sustainable psychiatric services. Careful analysis of outcome measures that are both clinical and financial ensure top results for the mental health of the populations we care for in a sustainable manner. Penn Psychiatry is proud to deliver extensive services across the region in collaboration with our partners at Children’s Hospital of Philadelphia, Hospital of the University of Pennsylvania, Lancaster General Hospital, Penn Presbyterian Hospital, Pennsylvania Hospital, and Princeton Hospital. Across the University of Pennsylvania’s Health System, Penn Psychiatry offers inpatient services, partial hospitalization programs, outpatient specialty services, employee assistance programs, and integrated services. Penn Psychiatry is devoted to realizing its vision of “promoting health for the brain and mind to transform lives and the world.” Please explore our website so you can learn more about the exciting work happening here! Maria A. Oquendo, M.D., Ph.D. Ruth Meltzer Professor Chairman of Psychiatry Perelman School of Medicine University of Pennsylvania Vision Promoting health for the brain and mind to transform lives and the world. Mission Penn Psychiatry develops and implements new ideas to understand, prevent and treat disorders of the brain and mind, through innovative research and discoveries, outstanding educational programs, world renowned clinical services, and transformational public health policies. Shatter the Myths About Suicide and Kids of Color Maria A. Oquendo, MD, PhD, chair of Psychiatry, was mentioned in a recent Philadelphia Inquirer opinion article regarding her long-standing history of working in the area of suicide prevention. Oquendo is tackling the challenge of disparities and suicide risk head on through the new Penn Innovation in Suicide Prevention Implementation Research (INSPIRE) Center, led with Gregory K. Brown, PhD, a research associate professor of Clinical Psychology in Psychiatry and director of the Penn Center for the Prevention of Suicide. Click here to watch the interview on on Fox29 Philadelphia Congratulations Edna Foa The Academy of Cognitive and Behavioral Therapies (A-CBT), a very prestigious organization has selected Edna Foa as the recipient the 2021 Lifetime Achievement Award. Read More Our Vision And Mission History Of Psychiatry At Penn Collaborations Contact Us News & Announcements David Dinges has transitioned to Emeritus status. He will continue to work part-time. We are holding a virtual meeting on October 15 at 4:00 PM ET (one hour meeting) to acknowledge his great contributions in the fields of sleep research, circadian biology and astronaut behavioral health. Contact Us Sitemap Events Make a Gift © The Trustees of the University of Pennsylvania | Site best viewed in a supported browser. | Report Accessibility Issues and Get Help | Privacy Policy | Site Design: DART Web Team.