Skip to main content SMU Explore SMU Academics Undergraduate Admission Student Affairs About News Athletics Events Calendar Bush Center Prospective Students Current Students Alumni Faculty & Staff Apply to SMUGIVE NOW Meadows School of the Arts Areas of Study Admissions About Menu Search Graduate Admissions Meadows Graduate Admission Guide Graduate admissions procedures at the Meadows School of the Arts vary by program. View below to learn more from your area of interest. Graduate Admissions Take a Virtual Tour Schedule a Visit Frequently Asked Questions Financial Aid & Scholarships Tuition and Fees International Applicants Contact Admissions How To Apply The following programs are available at the graduate level within Meadows School of the Arts: Advertising, Art, Art History, Arts Management & Arts Entrepreneurship, Data Science, Design & Innovation, Music and Theatre. Graduate Scholarships & Financial Aid Meadows School of the Arts provides a limited number of tuition scholarships and/or graduate assistantships to new graduate students who have been reviewed (through audition, portfolio review and/or interview) by the Meadows faculty and the administration and demonstrate the highest level of achievement in their academic and artistic careers. Scholarships & Financial Aid Graduate Q&A Do I Have To Apply To SMU and Meadows? No. At this time, the graduate application to the University is only through Meadows. Check the admission page for each program of interest for instructions. How much does it cost to go to SMU? Depending on your audition or portfolio, academic profile, and family income, you may qualify for an artistic scholarship and/or need-based aid. See tuition and fees list. Arvin Maghsoudlou, Ph.D. Student Arvin Maghsoudlou Receives Alessandra Comini International Fellowship for Art History Studies. The award supports his study of precious metal objects from Persian late antiquity. Read About The Award Take the Next Step Meadows prepares you to be an artist ready for the world. We'll help you with the next step. Book a tour, talk with an admissions counselor, and get your questions answered. Contact us Take A Tour Meadows School of the Arts Meadows School of the Arts 6101 Bishop Dallas, Texas 75205 214-768-2000 Mailing Address: P.O. Box 750356 Dallas, Texas 75275-0356 Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkedIn Apply Now Visit Us Back to top © Southern Methodist University, PO Box 750100, Dallas, TX 75275 Areas of Study Advertising Art Art History Arts Management & Arts Entrepreneurship CCPA Creative Computation Dance Film & Media Arts Journalism Music Theatre Admissions Undergraduate Admissions Graduate Admissions Scholarships And Financial Aid Internships & Collaborations Visit Meadows Contact Meadows Admission Dual Admission About A Statement of Our Values Mission History Message From The Dean Dean's Executive Council Student Academic Services Academic Affairs Contact SMU Meadows Faculty Directory Faculty/Staff Bio Submission Form Facilities Resources Employment Meadows Graduate Student Council Site Map Report a Web Problem News and Events Art History After Hours Virtual Season Subscribers News Featured Media Our Calendar Performing Arts Season Music Recitals Events Newsletter Meadows Events Parking Directions & Public Transportation Meadows Recognition Ceremony The Movement Mission Ignite Arts Dallas SMU DataArts Meadows Prize Arts Entrepreneurship International Opportunities Interdisciplinary Studies Research and Creativity Alumni Submit Your Information Alumni News Alumni in the Media Alumni on LinkedIn Support Meadows Contact Development The Meadows Scholars Program Meadows Gala Apply NowVisit UsGive Menu Search Search Submit Menu Search