Programs List - University of Houston Skip to main content Restrict my search to Online Education Submit Close Login to AccessUH Give to UH Search Online & Special Programs About About Us Contact Us State Authorization UH System Online Degree Programs Online Programs Undergraduate Degrees Graduate Degrees Hybrid Programs UH Extend Programs Online Minors UH Sessions FAQs Sessions Calendar Summer Sessions Calendar Fall Sessions Calendar Class Search Online Professional Development Professional Training Certificate Programs MOOCS Students Prospective Students Student Types Admissions Cost Online Success Student Resources Current Students Student Resources Online Success Remote Learning Proctoring Services Proctoring Request Form Instructors Class Search Syllabus Search Request Info ONLINE PROGRAMS UNDERGRADUATE DEGREES In 2019, the University of Houston was ranked #2 among the nation’s top underrated colleges by CollegeVine. Looking to earn your Bachelor’s degree with us online? We offer 11 online undergraduate degree completion programs. Online degree completion programs are designed for students who have completed at least two years of college and would like to earn a bachelor’s degree online. These degree programs provide adult students with the opportunity to complete an undergraduate degree with the flexibility of online courses to make it easier to balance life, work and educational goals. Explore our programs to learn more. ^ Business Administration (B.B.A.) - UH Extend The Online BBA degree is a fully online program with seven majors to choose from. Nursing (RN to B.S.N.) The program provides an innovative, dynamic, and nationally competitive nursing education opportunity. Psychology (B.A.) The program prepares students for a career in a variety of positions in the private and public sectors. Psychology (B.S.) The program prepares students for a work combining psychology and computer technology. Retailing & Consumer Sciences (B.S.) The program is designed to help professionals integrate knowledge of consumers and merchandising processes. University of Houston Houston, Texas 77204 (713) 743-2255 A–Z Index Academic Calendar Campus Carry Policy Campus Map Career Opportunities Directory Emergency Information Get Help Human Resources Library Mental Health Resources Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Office of the President Parking Report Copyright Infringement Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness Open Records/Public Information Act Texas Veterans Portal Tuition & Fees UH System Virtual Tour ©2022 University of Houston. All rights reserved. Report a problem with this page Texas.gov Texas Homeland Security TRAIL Fraud Reporting Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Linking Notice Privacy Notice Open Records/Public Information Act Institutional Résumé Required Reports Electronic & Information Resources Accessibility Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness University Policies