Skip to main content Undergraduate Admissions Navigation Academics Admissions FreshmanTransferInternationalTransient, Non-Degree Seeking and Second Bachelor’sDual Enrollment and Early AdmissionAdmitted StudentsRequest InfoCheck Status Cost and Aid Visit FAQs View All FAQsFreshmanApplication ProcessAdmitted StudentsCost, Fees and Financial AidCampus Visits and ToursHousing and Campus Life Resources For High School StudentsFor ParentsFor CounselorsVirtual Info SessionsAdmission FormsJoin Our Mailing ListContact Us Apply Transfer Applicants Make a Smooth Transition Skip to Section According to U.S. News & World Report, more students choose to transfer to UCF than to any other university. Why? We are bright, bold and innovative. We are right now — and what’s next. With more than 215 degree programs and 650 diverse student clubs to choose from, you will develop new interests, make important connections and evolve your passion into a meaningful career. Transferring to UCF To assist in your transition, pre-enrollment advising may be offered by the college of your major. If you are transferring to UCF through DirectConnect to UCF, your DirectConnect Success Coach can assist in developing an academic plan before you arrive at UCF. The university also provides a convenient tool to access a database of established course equivalencies from other institutions. While actual awarding of transfer credit occurs after official transcripts are received from the sending institution, the portal can provide guidance as you plan your transition to UCF. To access the transfer equivalency portal, click HERE. Transferring to UCF starts with preparation. The Transfer to Be a Knight presentation is offered to help make your transition as smooth as possible. Please join us at 4 p.m. on select Thursdays for a virtual information session filled with advice and support on all things related to transfer students: admissions, application, requirements, credit reviews and more. Registration is required. If you have additional questions pertaining to this program, please email Molly Boop with the subject line “Transfer to Be a Knight.” Register for a Transfer to Be a Knight info session DirectConnect to UCF® Guarantees Admission DirectConnect to UCF guarantees your admission (consistent with university policy) to UCF with an associate degree from one of our partner colleges. The program also offers a faster admissions process and personalized advising. UCF partners with the following colleges: College of Central Florida Daytona State College Eastern Florida State College Lake-Sumter State College Seminole State College Valencia College Learn More About DirectConnect to UCF Admissions questions? We can help. Learn more about your next steps. Our undergraduate admissions counselors cover everything you need to know. Sign up for an info session Admission Requirements What You Need to Apply: Official transcripts from all colleges attended Official transcripts from high school, if applicable Official SAT [code: 5233] or ACT [code: 0735] score All official AICE, AP, CLEP, and IB scores, if applicable $30 nonrefundable application fee Completed online application Please Take Note If you attended any international educational institutions, please review the requirements regarding evaluation of these credits. High school transcripts may be required to demonstrate completion of the foreign language admission requirement. High school transcripts are not required for transfers with an awarded A.A. degree from a Florida public community college, state college or university if initially entered Fall 2014-15 or after. Florida BOG Regulation 6.001 (7) authorizes universities to refuse admission to applicants due to past misconduct. Meeting minimum requirements does not guarantee admission. Application Deadlines Semester Deadline Fall July 1 Spring November 1 Summer March 1 Apply Now Returning Students If you previously attended UCF as an undergraduate degree-seeking student, you must submit a readmission application through the Registrar’s Office. Please contact them at 407-823-3100 or access the readmission application. Transfer Admission Criteria Admission criteria varies based upon the total number of transferable semester hours of college coursework you will have completed by the time you enroll at UCF. Each category below specifies admissions requirements. Fewer than 30 transferable semester hours If you will have fewer than 30 transferable semester hours of college coursework (12 or more earned after high school graduation) by the time you enroll at UCF, you must: Minimally meet the first-year student high school unit admission requirements Minimally meet the high school academic GPA and a minimum score for the SAT Reasoning or redesigned SAT* [code: 5233] or ACT [code: 0735] Have earned a competitive overall college GPA on a 4.0 system for all academic courses attempted; GPA requirements may change by semester based on the competitiveness of the applicant pool and enrollment goals Be in good academic standing (minimum 2.0 GPA**) overall and be eligible to return as a degree-seeking student to the last institution attended *The redesigned SAT was launched by the College Board in March 2016. UCF accepts both old SAT and redesigned SAT scores. **Meeting minimum requirements does not guarantee admission. 30 or more but fewer than 60 transferable semester hours If you will have 30 or more but fewer than 60 transferable semester hours of college coursework (12 or more earned after high school graduation) by the time you enroll at UCF, you must*: Minimally have successfully completed (with a “C” grade or higher) at least one English composition course and one college-level mathematics course, each consisting of three semester credit hours Demonstrate competency in a world language or American Sign Language equivalent to at least the second high school level (e.g. Spanish 2) or the second elementary course at the college level (e.g. SPN 1211 – Beginning Spanish II) Have earned a competitive overall college GPA on a 4.0 system for all academic courses attempted; GPA requirements may change by semester based on the competitiveness of the applicant pool and enrollment goals Be in good academic standing (minimum 2.0 GPA**) overall and be eligible to return as a degree-seeking student to the last institution attended *Students not meeting all of these requirements must meet the requirements for transfer students with fewer than 30 transferable semester hours. **Meeting minimum requirements does not guarantee admission. 60 or more transferable semester hours If you will have 60 or more transferable semester hours of college coursework (12 or more earned after high school graduation) by the time you enroll at UCF, or if you will have earned an A.A. degree or state-articulated A.S. degree from a Florida public community/state college or university, you must: Have completed two college-level English composition courses with a grade of “C” or better Have completed two college-level Mathematics courses with a grade of “C” or better Demonstrate competency in a world language or American Sign Language equivalent to at least the second high school level (e.g. Spanish 2) or the second elementary course at the college level (e.g. SPN 1211 – Beginning Spanish II)** Have earned a competitive overall college GPA on a 4.0 system for all academic courses attempted; GPA requirements may change by semester based on the competitiveness of the applicant pool and enrollment goals Be in good academic standing (minimum 2.0 GPA*) overall and be eligible to return as a degree-seeking student to the last institution attended *Meeting minimum requirements does not guarantee admission. **Language requirement will be satisfied upon award of the A.A. degree from a Florida public community/state college or university if initially entered fall 2014-15 or after. After Admission Shortly following admission, a transfer credit report will be available on myUCF. Our First Year Experience office will contact you concerning your attendance at a one-day orientation program. During orientation, you will receive academic advising and assistance in planning your class schedule. You will also meet with other transfer students as well as faculty and staff who can assist you as you make this important transition. Learn More About What Happens After You’re Admitted Transfer Student Viewbook Ensuring that you have the tools and support you need to transfer to and succeed at UCF is a top priority. That’s why we provide you with academic resources and services specifically designed for transfer students. Explore the Viewbook Visit UCF Take a tour of our Orlando campus, and see if UCF is right for you. Tuition & Financial Aid Find opportunities to get help paying for classes and cost of living. FAQs Get application information and deadlines, plus answers to all of your questions. Contact Us Mailing Address P.O. Box 160111 Orlando, FL 32816-0111 Contact Email: [email protected] Phone: 844-376-9160 Fax: 407-823-5625 Business Hours Mon - Fri: 9 a.m. - 5 p.m. Closed Weekends & Holidays Application Deadlines Freshman Applicants Fall: May 1 Spring: November 1 Summer: March 1 Transfer Applicants Fall: July 1 Spring: November 1 Summer: March 1 International Applicants Fall: March 1 Spring: September 1 Summer: January 1 More Resources FAQs Admission Forms Accreditation Annual Security Report Accessibility Request Info Let’s Get Social Facebook Twitter