Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Health Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Our Services Appointments Health Topics Events Forms and Guidelines Our Organization News See All Services What's Open Now Patient Resources Quarantine and Isolation Support Coping Tools Immunization Compliance Top Services Birth Control Education Individual Counseling Primary Care Register with Disability Services Sexual Assault: Get Support STI Testing Support Groups Travel Medicine Urgent Medical Concerns Workshops and Trainings Cost of Service Overview Make an Appointment Same Day Service Emergency and After-hours Support Alcohol Body Image Concerns Marijuana Disabilities Other Drugs HIV Insurance Men's Health Mental Health and Well-Being Anxiety Depression Stress Nutrition Physical Activity Relationships Overview Academic Relationships Friendships Roommates Sexual and Reproductive Health Sleep Transgender and Gender Expansive Health Violence Prevention Prevention Consent What Is Sexual Assault? Supporting a Survivor What Is Relationship Abuse? Stalking What Is Sexual Harassment? Bystander Intervention-Step UP! Women's Health See All Events Sexual Assault Awareness Month Columbia Health Flu Season Information Virtual Naloxone Training About Columbia Health Who We Are Who We Serve Confidentiality, Patient Rights, & Patient Responsibilities Operating Philosophy Video Library Your Feedback Staff Directory Health Units Alice! Health Promotion Counseling and Psychological Services Disability Services Gay Health Advocacy Project (GHAP) Insurance Office Medical Services Sexual Violence Response Columbia Health You are here: Home Resources For Faculty and Staff Columbia Health for Faculty and Staff Columbia Health for Faculty and Staff Columbia Health partners with faculty and staff to promote the health and well-being of Columbia students. Morningside faculty and staff may utilize or refer to our services in a limited capacity, such as cases of urgent, acute situations, travel assessments, immunizations, or HIV testing and referral. For more information, contact Columbia Health at 212-854-2284. Expand all Collapse all Working Together to Support Students Counseling and mental health Support and Consultation Counseling and Psychological Services welcomes deans, faculty, and staff to consult about students of concern. If you would like to speak with a counselor to solicit advice about a student, please contact us. Counseling and Psychological Services can offer guidance on how to refer a student to counseling services, how to respond to a student in crisis or obvious distress, or how to discuss any other matter pertaining to the psychological wellbeing of Columbia students. Faculty and Staff Training Counseling and Psychological Services provides staff training on specific mental health topics. Its staff are available to meet with deans, faculty, teaching assistants, residence life staff, departmental administrators, and other similar groups to discuss issues such as recognizing early warning signs and symptoms of psychiatric illness, addressing alcohol and substance use, and responding to disruptive students or employees. We are also available to meet with staff for ongoing consultation about difficult situations that might arise in work with students. Counseling and Psychological Services adheres to the strict standards of confidentiality that guide mental health practice with Columbia students and will not share privileged information about students. Interested in staff development training and workshops? Please contact Counseling and Psychological Services. Accessibility and accomodations Disability Services values the input of Columbia faculty in its effort to ensure that students with disabilities have equal access to University curricula. Specifically, Disability Services relies on faculty guidance in striking the balance between accommodating students with disabilities and preserving academic standards. We collaborate with faculty to determine appropriate accommodations to ensure that they do not alter the course standards or program requirements. Faculty and staff requesting accommodations for their own disabilities must contact Human Resources. Faculty may also find the Faculty Guide for Disability Services helpful. Sexual and gender-based violence support Sexual Violence Response provides training, consultation and referrals to all deans, faculty and staff members. Faculty and Staff Training Workshops, groups, and training support deans, faculty, and staff in their response to students affected by sexual and relationship violence. Request a workshop Referrals and Consultations Staff are available for consultation about students and community concerns. Referrals are available for students and other community members to resources on campus that are community-based and have national support. Sexual Violence Response seeks to collaborate with deans, faculty, and staff to promote a safer environment in which to learn, live, and work. Contact us at 212-854-HELP for more information. Health promotion and wellbeing Alice! Health Promotion understands health to be a multi-dimensional, self-defined, and values-based concept that plays a vital role in an individual’s life. Recognizing the impact that individual knowledge and skills, relationships, campus environments, and policies have on well-being, we aim to center students as the owners of their experience while dismantling oppressive systems around them that facilitate health inequities. Using data- and theory- driven practices, we work collaboratively across campus to help prioritize health and well-being in all facets of the university to create communities where students can flourish at Columbia and beyond. What’s more: Health promotion is a facet of public health work. Alice! also supports the university’s public health response efforts, inclusive of influencing communication, informing environmental strategies, and advocacy, to reduce risk within our campus community now and in the future. In your capacity as a key campus partner, you can refer students to Alice! for self-guided and facilitated learning and skill-building opportunities, such as (but not limited to): Drop-in hours and health education appointments are available for students to discuss health questions are offered by Alice! and GHAP. Links to Success is a tool that organizes campus resources by topic or issue, such as financial or academic concerns, so students can more easily navigate available support. Self-Assessment tools, including on sleep, alcohol use, and cannabis use, can help students explore health behaviors and get connected to more information. Workshops and trainings are available by request on a number of health-related topics for a student audience. We are happy to tailor content and also have options for 15-minute overviews on certain workshops as well. Go Ask Alice!, Columbia's award-winning health question and answer website, New and updated responses to anonymously submitted questions and other related content on health-related topics is published weekly. You can encourage your students to visit and share the content. You can also sign up for the weekly newsletter, Get Alice! In Your Box. We also know that faculty, deans, and staff are valuable partners in supporting student well-being within individual schools, units, and organizations. We welcome opportunities for consultation or collaboration with you! Whether you would like to explore the prevalence or impact of health issues facing your student community or if you would like to understand and implement effective strategies for promoting student well-being, please reach out to us at [email protected]. Expand all Collapse all Limited Services for Faculty and Staff Visiting Scholars With space and staffing at Columbia Health devoted to Columbia students, visiting scholars should anticipate obtaining any required health care services and medical insurance coverage through providers in the local community and other insurance carriers. Before arriving at Columbia, visiting scholars must be sure that they have adequate medical insurance coverage that will be effective in New York City. The Columbia Student Health Insurance Plan provides coverage only for students and their dependents and is, therefore, not available to visiting scholars who are not registered as students. Postdoctoral Research Associates and Fellows Postdoctoral research associates and fellows should anticipate obtaining any required health care services through providers in the local community and through other medical insurance plans. Full-time postdoctoral research associates are considered Columbia staff and are eligible for enrollment in the medical insurance plans provided for staff and faculty. Postdoctoral research fellows may be eligible for enrollment in staff and faculty medical insurance plans, depending on the terms of the fellowship award and the fellowship appointment at Columbia. Postdoctoral research associates and research fellows should consult their department administrator for information about eligibility, enrollment procedures, and premiums. For detailed information, read the Columbia Human Resources Overview of Benefits. Urgent Medical Concerns Morningside faculty and staff may utilize same-day, walk-in services at Medical Services in John Jay Hall for urgent medical issues of an acute nature that arise while on campus. Columbia Health provides urgent care assessment for injury or sudden illness occurring at work. Employees will be evaluated and referred to one of the following: an emergency department, their primary care provider, or a worker compensation physician for follow-up. Medical Services does not perform evaluations for worker compensation; nor do they provide follow-up care for employees. Medical Services clinicians will provide immediately necessary treatment at no charge and refer the employee to emergency services or to their primary care provider. Columbia University Emergency Medical Services (CU-EMS) is also available for emergency treatment and transport to Mount Sinai St. Luke’s Hospital at 1111 Amsterdam Avenue at 113th Street. Immunization Morningside faculty and staff may also receive flu shots, Hepatitis B immunization (if required by the individual’s job), and measles immunization (if specified in a pre-employment agreement) at cost. Faculty and staff can receive no-cost flu vaccinations during the annual Flu fairs during the Fall term. Travel Assessment Columbia employees who anticipate traveling abroad may obtain a travel assessment for a nominal fee by making an appointment with Medical Services. The Travel Medicine program also provides vaccinations commonly prescribed for travelers, for example, yellow fever and typhoid. These vaccinations are provided at low cost to employees, making the Travel Medicine program one of the best alternatives available locally for such care. HIV Testing Confidential HIV-antibody testing, counseling, and referral for treatment is available to all members of the Columbia community through the Gay Health Advocacy Project. There is no fee for these services, and no appointment is needed. Contact the Gay Health Advocacy Project for more information or visit during drop-in hours. Urgent Mental Health Concerns Morningside faculty and staff have access to the Employee Assistance Program, which offers brief counseling for a variety of concerns and can assist with longer-term referrals. In addition, in the event of an urgent and serious mental health issue requiring immediate attention, Morningside faculty and staff may be seen for an emergency consultation at Counseling and Psychological Services. Consultations are limited to one visit. Faculty & Staff Resources Columbia Health for Faculty and Staff Disability in the Workplace Faculty Guide for Disability Services Postdoctoral Fellowship Training Program Need help with weekend or late night distress? Check out our Coping Tools page for various digital services, mobile apps, and online resources outside our regular hours of operation. Our limited podcast series, Invisible and On Stage, provides an open conversation around racism-related stress, identity, and community, and the way they impact mental health. Listen now! The entire Columbia Health team, photographed in Lerner Hall. Click the image to see a larger version. Columbia Health Alice! Health Promotion Disability Services Counseling and Psychological Services Gay Health Advocacy Project (GHAP) Insurance Office Immunization Compliance Office Medical Services Sexual Violence Response All Columbia Health offices are closed on University Holidays. Annual Report Columbia Health Annual Report Stay Connected Receive important news and event info from Columbia Health Columbia Health Events Join us for workshops, panel discussions, skill-building opportunities, and other events! Accessibility Accommodations Columbia Health makes every effort to accommodate individuals with disabilities. If you require disability accommodations to attend an event sponsored by Columbia Health, or by the University, contact Disability Services at 212-854-2388 at least 10 days in advance of the event. 212-854-2284 [email protected] Columbia Health Administration Wallach Hall, Suite 125, Mail Code 4202, 1116 Amsterdam Avenue · New York, NY 10027 Phone 212-854-2284 Contact Us [email protected] Internal Use Only Login to Access Follow Us Facebook Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close