Skip to main content The Magazine of the University of Central Florida | Archives In This Issue Spring 2022 Ingenuity at Work Developments from UCF faculty advance their fields while making societal impacts. Relationship Goals If you aren’t taking these six actions, you should be, according to experts at UCF’s Marriage and Family Research Institute. We’re Here to End This These UCF researchers shine a light on what it takes to end domestic violence, and they have a question for everyone: Who’s willing to help break the cycle? Making Waves Thanks to NASA-developed technology, this UCF alum’s company is working to achieve clean water globally. Quite a Catch UCF researchers receive a new, custom boat to continue studying sea turtles. Why I Believe in Medical City After graduating from UCF’s first class of medical school graduates, Elona Rrapo Kaso ’13MD ﻿has returned to Lake Nona to work and help train students at the Orlando VA Medical Center. She shares what it’s like to see the development of Medical City and UCF’s College of Medicine. A Generational Effort For two decades, the UCF Business Incubation Program has supported the growth of hundreds of local small businesses to diversify the Central Florida economy. Now, the program is positioning itself for a new generation of success. Powering Potential UCF’s new Microgrid Control Lab simulates a modern grid control room and will serve as a hands-on learning and research facility. Artistic Celebration Flying Horse Editions celebrates 30 years of supporting artistic works and research with an exhibit featured in UCF’s Art Gallery. More Than Words UCF’s Communication Disorders Clinic provides essential training for its graduate students and critical services to the local community. Elevating Expression Shawn Welcome ’17 reflects on the power of poetry in a community as he begins his term as Orlando’s poet laureate. On Campus — Spring 2022 From new winter celebrations to new campus murals and learning technology, there’s plenty of ways Knights are staying engaged at UCF. Not Your Average Students Education is a lifelong endeavor, as evidenced by this comparison of two of UCF’s oldest and youngest students. Together Again For the first time since the start of the pandemic, UCF’s Gather Luncheon returned to campus to promote community building and healthy eating. Pegasus The Magazine of the University of Central Florida In This Issue Archives Artistic Celebration Flying Horse Editions celebrates 30 years of supporting artistic works and research with an exhibit featured in UCF’s Art Gallery. Drawing back to its roots in the School of Visual Arts and Design, Flying Horse Editions — a collaborative research studio for visual artists — held an exhibit in the UCF Art Gallery to honor its 30th anniversary. Now located at the UCF Downtown campus, the nonprofit publisher produces limited-edition prints, artist books and art objects by internationally renowned artists. The studio, which is supported through an exclusive subscription base and works with four to six artists each academic year, also provides students hands-on experiences that expand their view on art and opportunities to learn about the practices of established artists. “This exhibition — and the diverse work Flying Horse Editions and its partnering artists have produced for 30 years — clearly illustrates the magic that can happen when a passionate team works together toward a common goal.” — Theo Lotz, Flying Horse Editions director 75 Artworks featured in the exhibit, which ran January 13 through February 3 40 Subscription members accepted each year, who each receive three prints 20 Average number of students who intern in the studio annually The Flying Horse Editions studio space at the UCF Downtown campus. The wooden doors were repurposed from the basketball court in the old Amway Arena. Flying Horse Editions Director Theo Lotz speaks with an attendee during the opening reception for the exhibit. An artist uses a printmaking machine. Nicole Dudenhoefer ’17 Spring 2022 Share this content on Facebook Tweet this content Related Stories Artifact: Under Pressure Elevating Expression What Is Creativity? More from the Spring 2022 Issue Together Again For the first time since the start of the pandemic, UCF’s Gather Luncheon returned to campus to promote community building and healthy eating. We’re Here to End This These UCF researchers shine a light on what it takes to end domestic violence, and they have a question for everyone: Who’s willing to help break the cycle? Why I Believe in Medical City After graduating from UCF’s first class of medical school graduates, Elona Rrapo Kaso ’13MD ﻿has returned to Lake Nona to work and help train students at the Orlando VA Medical Center. She shares what it’s like to see the development of Medical City and UCF’s College of Medicine. Quite a Catch UCF researchers receive a new, custom boat to continue studying sea turtles. Elevating Expression Shawn Welcome ’17 reflects on the power of poetry in a community as he begins his term as Orlando’s poet laureate. On Campus — Spring 2022 From new winter celebrations to new campus murals and learning technology, there’s plenty of ways Knights are staying engaged at UCF. Making Waves Thanks to NASA-developed technology, this UCF alum’s company is working to achieve clean water globally. More Than Words UCF’s Communication Disorders Clinic provides essential training for its graduate students and critical services to the local community. Ingenuity at Work Developments from UCF faculty advance their fields while making societal impacts. Relationship Goals If you aren’t taking these six actions, you should be, according to experts at UCF’s Marriage and Family Research Institute. Powering Potential UCF’s new Microgrid Control Lab simulates a modern grid control room and will serve as a hands-on learning and research facility. A Generational Effort For two decades, the UCF Business Incubation Program has supported the growth of hundreds of local small businesses to diversify the Central Florida economy. Now, the program is positioning itself for a new generation of success. Not Your Average Students Education is a lifelong endeavor, as evidenced by this comparison of two of UCF’s oldest and youngest students. Like us on Facebook Follow us on Twitter Find us on Instagram Follow us on YouTube Pegasus Magazine Suggest a Story Tell Us What You Think Update Your Address © University of Central Florida 4000 Central Florida Blvd. Orlando, FL 32816