Skip to main content Search Giving Contact Make a Gift CULLEN COLLEGE OF ENGINEERING Main menu About Dean's Welcome Mission & History People Dean's Office Faculty & Staff Student Organizations Engineering Leadership Board Faculty Advisory Board Engineering Alumni Association NAE Members Faculty in the NAI Academic Advisors Faculty Awards and Achievements Facts Strategic Plan Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Bylaws and Procedures Internal Resources Intranet ABET Accreditation Contact Us Academics Departments Undergraduate Programs Overview Admissions Accreditation Academic Policies Graduate Programs Overview Admissions Admissions Contacts and Deadlines Programs Academic Policies Certificate Programs Interdisciplinary Programs Best Dissertation Award Virtual Learning and Online Programs Scholarships UH Engineering in Katy Engineering Academies International Joint Institutes Prospective Students How to Engineer Your Future, Admissions & More Contact + Request Info Visit UH Engineering Virtual Tour Current Students Resources for Current Students First-Year Experience PROMES Engineering Career Center Student Organizations Engineering Computing Center NAE Grand Challenge Scholars Program Research About Sponsored Research Office Facts and Figures Facilities Centers & Institutes Consortia Research Computing Industrial Relations Meet the Faculty Student Research Research News Contact Innovation Engineering Program for Innovation and Entrepreneurship (EPIE) Engineering Student Innovation and Design Experience (ESIDE) Support & Outreach Support the College Why Give? Opportunities How to Give Office of Advancement Alumni Engineering Alumni Association Alumni Events Educational Outreach Overview Girls Engineering the Future PROMES Research Experience for Undergrads St. Elmo Brady STEM Academy Engineering Career Center News & Events Newsroom Engineering Podcast Upcoming Events Publications Photos Videos Media Coverage Keep in Touch! Office of Communications Home News Ramirez describes path from Bogota to UH to Tesla May 25, 2022 The following student experience was written by Juan Ramirez, a Mechanical Engineering senior – and now graduate! – of the Cullen College of Engineering. If you have an account… Read More Cullen Researcher Determines Shale Reservoirs Could be Substantial Lithium Source May 18, 2022 It might seem paradoxical, but producing oil and gas from shale reservoirs could actually help the world transition to cleaner energy sources. One of the keys to a successful… Read More CEE's Kalliontzis receives 2 grants to study concrete performance May 16, 2022 A professor at the Cullen College of Engineering has received a pair of grants that will utilize the one-of-a-kind machinery available at the University of Houston to conduct… Read More UH Professor, Graduate Think Soot Can Help with the Energy Transition May 9, 2022 Turning environmental pollutants into renewable solar energy while reducing carbon emissions may seem like something plucked out of a science-fiction film, but researchers from… Read More Cullen recognizes efforts of faculty, students with 2021-22 Excellence Awards May 5, 2022 The Cullen College of Engineering and Dr. Joseph W. Tedesco, Ph.D., P.E., the Elizabeth D. Rockwell Endowed Chair and Dean, are pleased to share the 2021-22 Faculty and Student… Read More BME Professor Developing Diagnostics for Lupus Nephritis May 4, 2022 Large Scale Protein Exam Leads to Potential Biomarkers The nature of a typical clinical test for lupus nephritis (LN), an inflammation of the kidneys and a leading cause of… Read More College mourns the passing of Gerri Snider April 28, 2022 The Cullen College of Engineering extends its condolences to the family of Gerlene “Gerri” R. Snider, a longtime benefactor to the College and the University of Houston. Along… Read More Cullen Professor Leads Consortium to Enhance Cybersecurity April 25, 2022 ‘Transformational’ Institute Funded by Department of Defense As the nature of digital warfare evolves, the need for a workforce trained in cybersecurity is critical for defending… Read More ECE doctoral candidate Sayed takes home presentation award from 2022 IEEE APEC April 20, 2022 A doctoral candidate at the Cullen College of Engineering took home an outstanding paper presentation award at the 2022 IEEE Applied Power Electronics Conference in March. Hussain… Read More New research suggests method for mapping Obesity-Related hormones April 19, 2022 According to the CDC, obesity prevalence in the United States was 42.4 percent in 2017–2018, and obesity prevalence in the United States climbed from 30.5 percent to 42.4 percent… Read More Pagination Page 1 Next page ›› News & Media Newsroom Engineering Podcast Upcoming Events Publications Photos Videos Media Coverage Keep in Touch! Office of Communications Archived News May 2022 (6) April 2022 (9) March 2022 (13) more News Contacts riward [at] uh.edu (Rachel Knudsen) UH Cullen College of Engineering 713-743-4379 Radio Program Engines of Our Ingenuity, written and hosted by engineering prof. John Lienhard, airs in Houston on KUHF-FM 88.7 M-F 7:35am and 3:55pm. The series is broadcasted by over 30 NPR affiliates nation-wide. UH Engineering Podcast Ph.D. student Nicole Guinn hosts and explores topics related to geology and geosensing systems engineering AND stories of Women in STEM at UH. Listen now. Contact University of Houston Cullen College of Engineering Engineering Building 2, Room E421 4222 Martin Luther King Boulevard Houston, TX 77204-4007 Contact Us Quick Links About Academics Prospective Students Current Students Research Innovation Support & Outreach News & Events MAKE A GIFT ©2022 University of Houston. All rights reserved. UH Home Academic Calendar Campus Maps Emergency UH System Texas.gov Texas Homeland Security TRAIL Fraud Reporting Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Linking Notice Privacy Notice Open Records/Public Information Act Institutional Résumé Required Reports Electronic & Information Resources Accessibility Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness University Policies About Dean's Welcome Mission & History People Dean's Office Faculty & Staff Student Organizations Engineering Leadership Board Faculty Advisory Board Engineering Alumni Association NAE Members Faculty in the NAI Academic Advisors Faculty Awards and Achievements Facts Strategic Plan Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Bylaws and Procedures Internal Resources Intranet ABET Accreditation Contact Us Academics Departments Undergraduate Programs Overview Admissions Accreditation Academic Policies Graduate Programs Overview Admissions Admissions Contacts and Deadlines Programs Academic Policies Certificate Programs Interdisciplinary Programs Best Dissertation Award Virtual Learning and Online Programs Scholarships UH Engineering in Katy Engineering Academies International Joint Institutes Prospective Students How to Engineer Your Future, Admissions & More Contact + Request Info Visit UH Engineering Virtual Tour Current Students Resources for Current Students First-Year Experience PROMES Engineering Career Center Student Organizations Engineering Computing Center NAE Grand Challenge Scholars Program Research About Sponsored Research Office Facts and Figures Facilities Centers & Institutes Consortia Research Computing Industrial Relations Meet the Faculty Student Research Research News Contact Innovation Engineering Program for Innovation and Entrepreneurship (EPIE) Engineering Student Innovation and Design Experience (ESIDE) Support & Outreach Support the College Why Give? Opportunities How to Give Office of Advancement Alumni Engineering Alumni Association Alumni Events Educational Outreach Overview Girls Engineering the Future PROMES Research Experience for Undergrads St. Elmo Brady STEM Academy Engineering Career Center News & Events Newsroom Engineering Podcast Upcoming Events Publications Photos Videos Media Coverage Keep in Touch! Office of Communications