Skip to Content Directory Maps & Directions Calendar News Library Diversity UW Seattle UW Tacoma MyUW University of Washington Bothell University of Washington Bothell Future Students Admissions Application Dates & Deadlines Campus Visit Degree Programs For Parents Orientation First Year Students Graduate International Post-Baccalaureate Returning Transfer Resources Financial Aid Food Services Housing Transportation Tuition I want to... Attend Orientation Request Information Visit UW Bothell Apply to UW Bothell » Current Students Resources Campus Safety Canvas Catalyst Financial Aid and Scholarships Food Services Registration Time Schedule Tuition Academics Academic Calendar Community-Based Learning Degrees Quantitative Skills Center Study Abroad Undergraduate Research Writing and Communication Center Student Affairs Careers Counseling Center for International Education DACA Resources Disability Resources Veterans Student Parents ASUWB Clubs and Organizations Orientation Recreation Student Affairs My UW » Schools & Programs Academic Affairs Faculty Support Institutional Research & Analysis Division of Academic Affairs Sponsored Research Schools & Programs Business Educational Studies Interdisciplinary Arts & Sciences Nursing & Health Studies Science, Technology, Engineering & Mathematics (STEM) First Year & Pre-Major Program Graduate Programs Undergraduate Programs Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Safety Directory General Faculty Organization (GFO) General Staff Organization (GSO) IT MyUW Campus Services Canvas Food Service Room Reservations Commuter Services UW Alert Work Request Working at UW Bothell Accessibility Benefits Human Resources Integrated Service Center Payroll Training and Development Work/Life Balance How do I ... Apply for a Job Contact Campus Safety Find University Forms Get a Husky Card Plan an Event Alumni & Donors Get Involved Advancement and External Relations Alumni Council Distinguished Alumni Award Give to UW Bothell Update your Contact Information UW Alumni Association Volunteer Opportunities Stay Connected Alumni News Alumni Events Annual Husky 5K Bothell Block Party UW Bothell News UW Bothell Magazine Resources Alumni Services Career Center FAQ's Lifelong Learning UW Bothell Advisory Board How do I ... Find Classmates Get my Transcript Get Tickets to Husky Sports What are you Doing now? Give to UW Bothell » Discover UW Bothell Getting to Campus Building Hours Campus Map Directions Parking Transportation About UW Bothell About Leadership Chancellor Kristin Esterberg Fast Facts Mission, Vision & Core Values News & Events 2010-2020 Annual Impact Report Construction Calendar Emergency Information News Community Community Engagement Campus Tours Employers Visitors Parents and Family Home Coronavirus Coronavirus COVID site plans for UW Bothell Reporting requirements COVID-19 Communications University of Washington Bothell Coronavirus Coronavirus (COVID-19) resources This page includes information specific to the UW Bothell campus. For general information on COVID-19 related policies please visit the University of Washington coronavirus page. You can also find a Coronavirus FAQ and the Stay Healthy Huskies toolkit on the University of Washington website. Below you'll find information on: Current health requirements & guidelines Reporting requirements Resources for students On-campus testing kits via the Husky Coronavirus Testing program How we are keeping our campus clean and safe Other resources Quick Links Eating spaces and food: COVID-19 prevention guidance Guidance for in-person events COVID-19 cleaning and disinfection protocols UW Storefront (COVID-19 safety graphics) All recent communications from UW Bothell leadership Current health requirements & guidelines Vaccination requirement The University requires students and employees to be vaccinated against COVID-19. Read more about the vaccine requirement and find out where to get vaccinated. Students, faculty and staff must verify that they’ve been vaccinated or declare an exemption. Face coverings Wearing masks are now optional on the UW Bothell campus. However, masks are strongly recommended indoors. The Face Covering Policy webpage includes additional guidance and FAQs. With a goal of helping colleagues and guests to feel comfortable in your office or work area, here are some signs you can place in your space to communicate your mask preference. Face coverings remain required indoors when returning to campus after isolation or quarantine. When you wear a face covering, level up and choose a well-fitted KN95/KF94, N95 or surgical mask which provides additional protection for you and those around you. Free surgical masks will continue to be available through dispensers in buildings across campus. Reporting requirements University personnel, students and units are required to report the following to the COVID-19 Response and Prevention Team, regardless of vaccination status: COVID-19 positive test result; includes all personnel and students who test positive for COVID-19, and those whose health care provider has suspected COVID-19 infection (whether or not they are experiencing symptoms) Close contact with an individual who tested positive for COVID-19 Visit the reporting page for more information. Are you wondering what to do if you feel sick or have tested positive for COVID-19? View the new Public Health Requirements and Guidance flowchart from UW Environmental Health & Safety. Resources for students Your safety is a top priority, and we’ve taken precautions needed to keep you safe and healthy. Here are some of the key resources you can turn to. Technology support Health and Wellness Resource Center Counseling Center Campus resources for current students On-campus testing kits via the Husky Coronavirus Testing program Testing kits are available through the Husky Coronavirus Testing program (HCT) Monday through Friday from 10 a.m. to 2 p.m. in the UW2/Commons Hall lobby. The Husky Coronavirus Testing Program is a voluntary research study that provides COVID-19 testing. You must be enrolled in the Husky Coronavirus Testing program to obtain a kit. Walk-ins are welcome but enrollment in HCT is required. Additional testing options UW Medicine offers testing for current patients. Visit the patient portal to make an appointment. Hall Health Center on the UW Seattle campus: COVID-19 testing is available by appointment only. Call 206-685-1011 to schedule. Many area pharmacies offer COVID-19 testing that is billed to your health insurance. How are we keeping our campus clean and safe? Our best defenses against COVID-19 continues to be vaccination and masking. Throughout the pandemic, UW Bothell facilities and maintenance teams have been servicing water and heating/ventilation systems to keep them operational and safe. Find answers to your questions about cleaning and disinfection on campus in our FAQ. Read the FAQs. UW Bothell custodial services follow the COVID-19 Prevention Plan: Enhanced Cleaning and Disinfection Protocol as prescribed by the University’s Environmental Health & Safety Department. Read the cleaning and disinfection plan. Environmental Health & Safety has updated the University’s COVID-19 Prevention Plan template, in-person events guidance, cleaning and disinfection procedures, training and other guidance documents on its COVID-19 health and safety resources. Other resources Health & well-being We recognize that the confluence of the coronavirus pandemic, civil unrest and economic downturn is challenging and stressful. The UW Bothell resources below exist to support your health and well-being. For students The Health and Wellness Resource Center (HaWRC) is a one-stop hub connecting students with on-campus and community resources to help you thrive. For faculty & staff UW Carelink offers a wide range of services that can help you manage through the different stages of life, develop a healthy lifestyle, create a quality work environment, and save time by providing easy access to trusted experts, including counselors, attorneys, financial advisors, and child and adult/elder care consultants. Communications from UW Bothell leadership We strive to keep you up-to-date when decisions are made related to the pandemic. Refer to these pages to get the information you need. Read recent and archived communications University of Washington Bothell Contact Us University of Washington Bothell Box 358500 18115 Campus Way NE Bothell, WA 98011-8246 Phone: 425.352.5000 TDD: 425.352.5303 Email: uwbinfo@uw.edu © University of Washington Bothell Privacy Terms Site information Our Campus Academic Affairs Planning & Administration Advancement and External Relations Campus Safety Office of the Chancellor Facility Services Human Resources Parking and Transit Research Support Campus Life Accessibility Financial Aid Food Services Housing Information Technologies Student Life UW Bothell Alert Tuition Academics Canvas Catalyst Library Time Schedule Connect with us