Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Frosh Camp Overview Registration Logistics Photos & Videos Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact Directions to Frosh Camp Our Student Staff Student Leadership & Involvement A typical day at Frosh Camp PreviousNext Take Action Sign Up Today! Camp Schedule Items to bring and not bring Contact Us Follow Us Online Instagramtwitter Home Frosh Camp A hundred years down the road, you'll still remember Frosh Camp. Frosh Camp at the University of Memphis is a four-day extended orientation program that supports incoming students' transition into college by exposing them to University programs, resources, and traditions while connecting them to current and future student leaders in a diverse environment. Frosh Camp is a great way to meet new friends, learn about getting involved at UofM, and get connected to campus before classes even begin! Start your Memphis experience on the right foot with Frosh Camp! Learning Outcomes Freshmen attending Frosh Camp will... 1. Feel connected to and confident about UofM, through exposure to programs, resources, traditions, and people. 2. Develop an increased self-awareness of his or her own identity. 3. Appreciate and respect various student cultures through exposure to and/or interaction with a diverse group of students. 4. Build long-lasting relationships with peers, student leaders, and administrators. After this Frosh Camp is over, you will have an upper hand on your first year at college! You will learn what to expect both inside and outside the classroom, how to get connected to a wide variety of activities and resources, and gain a whole bunch of Tiger spirit! You will also be able to meet nearly 250 other incoming freshmen as well as upperclassmen mentors who will help you prepare for your first year! At Frosh Camp you will meet people who will radically influence your college years - classmates, friends, and supporters who will make and shape your experience at the University of Memphis. You will be as prepared as possible to tackle your first year at Memphis, whether it's managing your academic schedule or knowing the Tiger Fight Song for your first football game! When is Frosh Camp? Frosh Camp session dates and registration information could be found on our registration web page. Remember spaces are limited and fill up quickly, so don't wait! Where is Frosh Camp? Frosh Camp 2022 will be held at Camp NaCoMe. More information about Camp NaCoMe can be found on the logistics page. What does Frosh Camp Cost? The total expense to attend camp is $85.00. That's only $21.25 per day for something you will never forget! Campers receive transportation to and from camp, lodging, delicious meals, all programming materials, social activities, and a t-shirt. For more information, please contact us! Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 4/4/22 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.