Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. University Honors Program UHP right arrow down arrow About UHP right arrow down arrow Inclusive Excellence Competencies right arrow down arrow Community Engagement Creativity Global Studies Leadership Research News Directions Contact Us right arrow down arrow Raj Mehta Debbie Brawn Marcell Crawford Bria Howard Bene Khoury Neil Choudhury Ashley Webber Kyle Key Jason Autry Tricia Yee Claire Minton Yale Miller Shawna Obregon Danny Hagedorn Vikki Kowalczyk Current UHP Students right arrow down arrow UHP Student Database UHP Framework & Benefits Requirements Honors Experiences right arrow down arrow Honors Seminars right arrow down arrow Fall 2022 Honors Seminars Spring 2023 Honors Seminars Summer 2022 Honors Seminars Pre-Approved Experiences Self-Designed Experiences Study Abroad and Study Tours International Travel Biomedical Research and Mentoring Program right arrow down arrow RaMP Publications RaMP Project Descriptions How to Apply Matching and Participation Frequently Asked Questions Tips and Testimonials UHP Discover right arrow down arrow Students: Learn More Faculty: Get Involved 2022 UHP Discover Projects Past Honors Seminars right arrow down arrow Summer 2021 Seminars Fall 2021 Honors Seminars Spring 2022 Honors Seminars Summer 2022 Honors Seminars Welcome Experience Leaders UHP Ambassador Leadership Team Grants for Honors Experiences Learning Portfolios right arrow down arrow Reflection Structure and Content Showcase Guide Protected Information Featured Portfolios Year-in-Review Get Involved right arrow down arrow UHP Ambassadors right arrow down arrow Meet the Team Ambassador Application Honor Societies First Year in UHP right arrow down arrow Welcome Experience right arrow down arrow Welcome Experience Registration HNRS 1010: Gateway to the UHP Advising right arrow down arrow Scheduling Advising Meetings via My Bearcat Network Presidential Leadership Medal of Excellence Prospective Students right arrow down arrow High School Students Current UC Students right arrow down arrow Join our Outreach List and Teams University Honors Application Transfer Students University Honors Housing Faculty and Campus Partners right arrow down arrow Honors Seminar Call for Proposals right arrow down arrow Guidelines, Pedagogy and Structure Study Tour Guidelines Submission Process Required Documents Proposal Form Review and Notification Funding Resources Seminar Development Workshops Creating and Ordering Honors Seminars Home » Campus Life » University Honors Program » Current UHP Students » Honors Experiences » UHP Discover » Faculty: Get Involved Set Navigation title in component UHP Student Database UHP Framework & Benefits Requirements Honors Experiences Honors Seminars Fall 2022 Honors Seminars Spring 2023 Honors Seminars Summer 2022 Honors Seminars Pre-Approved Experiences Self-Designed Experiences Study Abroad and Study Tours International Travel Biomedical Research and Mentoring Program RaMP Publications RaMP Project Descriptions How to Apply Matching and Participation Frequently Asked Questions Tips and Testimonials UHP Discover Students: Learn More Faculty: Get Involved 2022 UHP Discover Projects Past Honors Seminars Summer 2021 Seminars Fall 2021 Honors Seminars Spring 2022 Honors Seminars Summer 2022 Honors Seminars Welcome Experience Leaders UHP Ambassador Leadership Team Grants for Honors Experiences Learning Portfolios Reflection Structure and Content Showcase Guide Protected Information Featured Portfolios Year-in-Review Get Involved UHP Ambassadors Meet the Team Madalyn O'Dea Somya Sharma Zakaria Bodiford Ambassador Application Honor Societies First Year in UHP Welcome Experience Welcome Experience Registration HNRS 1010: Gateway to the UHP Advising Scheduling Advising Meetings via My Bearcat Network Presidential Leadership Medal of Excellence Faculty: Get Involved Faculty Applications for Summer 2022 Now Closed! Will you be conducting research during Summer 2022? If so, please consider being a part of the UHP Discover summer research program! UC faculty are encouraged to submit proposals to serve as research mentors for UHP Discover! This is a full-time (30–40 hours per week for 10 weeks) summer research experience for undergraduate students in the UHP. Research projects are to be from the humanities, social sciences, business, education, music, arts, and other non-STEMM disciplines only. Research projects in STEMM disciplines are not eligible. Up to 20 faculty research projects will be selected and supported for the Summer 2022 session. Faculty proposal process right arrow down arrow Faculty must submit their research project proposal to the UHP by Friday, January 28. Research projects must be full-time (30-40 hours per week, for 10 weeks, in Summer 2022). The faculty member must be available to mentor and supervise their student researcher during their entire employment period. We recommend, at minimum, scheduled bi-weekly meetings with your student researcher. Research project proposals will be reviewed by a committee of UHP faculty and staff. Up to 20 projects will be selected. Faculty will be informed of their proposal's status by the end of business on Monday, February 7. Faculty/Student matching process right arrow down arrow Selected projects will be posted online by February 11 for UHP students to view. Beginning February 11, UHP students may apply to their desired project(s). Their deadline to apply will be Sunday, February 20. As applications are received, faculty are encouraged to reach out to students to schedule a one-on-one or group interview. Matches may begin on February 21 (meaning, faculty can offer to their selected applicant beginning on this date). Students are given 24 hours to accept/decline. If the first student you offer to does not accept, you may offer to the next student (and continue this until you and a student match). The faculty member will then indicate their student selection/match to the UHP by Friday, March 11. Information about hiring students right arrow down arrow The faculty member's department will be required to hire the student as a student employee, so that the student can be paid to conduct the research. The UHP will provide the funding, up to $4000 at a rate of $10/hr for the 10 week research period. We will coordinate directly with your unit's business office. The faculty member's department must hire the selected student as an hourly student employee. The faculty member and their department must oversee all aspects of the student's employment, including hiring, clocking in and out/timekeeping, PCR processes, and managing all other HR processes related to hiring and employment. The UHP will transfer the funding to the department to pay the student, up to $4000. The faculty member will indicate how many hours per week the student will work for the ten weeks. This amount of funding will be transferred to the faculty member's department, up to $4000. If students will work less than 40 hours per week for the ten weeks, a pro-rated amount will be transferred. If the student works fewer hours than indicated, the remaining funds are to be transferred back to the UHP at the end of the summer. Students are not permitted to work more than 40 hours per week. In the event that a student works beyond their contracted hours, the faculty member's department is required to cover additional costs. Students will work with their faculty member to determine their Summer 2022 schedule. UHP students are required to attend professional development sessions on most Friday mornings. Faculty must allow the students to attend these sessions on these Fridays. UHP students are required to present their research at the conclusion of the summer to fellow members of the program, mentors, and UHP staff. Faculty Funding right arrow down arrow The UHP will provide $1000 to the faculty mentor's department for use by the faculty member. The $1000 will be transferred to the faculty member’s department by May 2022, to then be available for the faculty member’s use. This funding is transferred from operating funds. A salary or stipend is not paid directly to the faculty member by the UHP. If the department chooses to use the $1000 to pay a stipend, it must be used for both salary and benefits. Therefore, the faculty member will not be paid $1000 by the department but rather a smaller amount to also account for required benefits. $1000 will be transferred for each UHP Discover project that a faculty member oversees, if a match is made. Student Funding right arrow down arrow The UHP will also transfer up to $4000 (including benefits) to the faculty member's department to cover the student researchers hourly pay ($10 per hour, 30–40 hours per week for 10 weeks, up to 400 hours for the summer). The faculty member's department must hire the student as an hourly student employee and oversee all aspects of the student's employment. The faculty member will indicate to the UHP how many hours per week the student will work for the ten weeks. This amount of funding will be transferred to the faculty member's department, up to $4000. If students will work less than 40 hours per week for the ten weeks, a pro-rated amount will be transferred. If the student works fewer hours than planned, the remaining funds are to be transferred back to the UHP at the end of the summer. If the student works more hours than planned, the faculty member's department is required to cover costs. University Honors Program 700 Swift Hall PO Box 210007 Cincinnati, OH 45221-0007 honors@uc.edu UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati University Honors Program 700 Swift Hall PO Box 210007 Cincinnati, OH 45221-0007 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top