Skip to main content Toggle navigation Explore Visit Apply Finance Enroll Search YouTube Facebook Twitter Instagram UMD Undergraduate Admissions Information for Freshman Applicants Transfer Applicants International Applicants UMD is actively monitoring the COVID-19 pandemic and providing regular updates to our community. Contact us for assistance by emailing ApplyMaryland@umd.edu, calling 301.314.TERP (8377) and visiting our updates page. You can also follow us on social @ApplyMaryland for the latest news and updates. Welcome About UMD Colleges and Schools Majors Limited Enrollment Programs Admission Representatives Join the Mailing List Special Experiences Campus Life College Park and D.C. Resources and Support Explore Terps love a challenge. A problem that needs a solution. A barrier that needs breaking down. You are smart, scrappy and determined. You value diversity, innovation, entrepreneurship and imagination. Ready to start your fearless journey? Be A Terp Variety. Challenge. Excellence. 90+ Majors 12 Colleges & Schools 800 Student Organizations ∞ Possibilities Calendar Daily Visits Signature Programs Off-Campus Programs Getting to Campus Virtual Visit Campus Map Visit You can only learn so much about a school from a brochure. Even if we tell you how beautiful our campus is, or how fantastic our students and faculty are, you will not know for yourself until you experience it for yourself! Come try on our campus for size! Stop by one of our top-notch athletic facilities. Have a scoop of homemade ice cream at the Dairy. Rub the nose of one of our beloved Testudo statues for good luck. Get all your questions answered. It won't be hard to picture yourself at home here for the next four years. Please visit our updates page for information regarding visit opportunity changes due to the COVID-19 pandemic. Virtual Visit Unable to make it to campus? Explore our beautiful campus from anywhere in the world! Virtual Tour Admission Requirements Admission Review Factors and Process Application Deadlines Application Checklists Application FAQs Submitting Documents Limited Enrollment Programs Apply You have done your research and explored your options, and you know that UMD is the perfect place for you. Now it is time to apply. COMMON APP >> MYCOALITION >> Freshman students applying to UMD can do so using either the Common App or the MyCoalition platform. At this time, transfer students can only apply using the MyCoalition platform. Please visit our updates page for information regarding changes to our application requirements due to the COVID-19 pandemic. Apply Today! Start Your Application Students have different deadlines based on their applicant type and desired semester of admission. Be sure to review our application deadlines to determine when you should apply and when you can expect to receive a decision. State of Maryland Residents Non-Maryland Residents Freshman Merit Scholarships Transfer Merit Scholarships Next Steps Finance Consistently ranked as one of the best values in public higher education, you can rest assured that you will receive an affordable world-class education. College is a major investment for you and your family. The university is here to help. We offer an array of financial aid programs—including scholarships, grants, loans and student employment—as part of our commitment to making an excellent education affordable. ESTIMATED COST OF ATTENDANCE: State of Maryland Residents Non-Maryland Residents As a public institution, we are committed to making higher education affordable and have been nationally recognized for our efforts. Estimated 2020-2021 Annual Tuition, Room, Meals & Other Fees State of Maryland Resident: $27,856 / Non-Maryland Resident: $54,490 View cost details → Admitted Students Admission Decision FAQs Enrolled Students Housing and Dining Orientation Enroll Congratulations on your admission to the University of Maryland! We are excited to welcome you into our world of fearless ideas. You’ve received your admission letter, checked out your major and started celebrating with family and friends. To make enrollment official, check out information for newly admitted students to get everything you need to start your academic career at UMD. ENROLL (Freshman) ENROLL (Transfer) Join the Mailing List There is a lot more to learn about Maryland, so let us stay in touch! Join the Mailing List You can also reach us at 1.800.422.5867 or ApplyMaryland@umd.edu Search Search keyword or phrase Campus Resources Accessibility Campus Calendar Campus Map Directories Policies and Procedures Student Resources Academic Calendar Registrar Testudo (Student Portal) Technical Support Change Password Division of IT Get IT Support University of Maryland on YouTube University of Maryland on Facebook University of Maryland on Twitter University of Maryland on Instagram University of Maryland on Vimeo Office of Undergraduate Admissions Mitchell Building · 7999 Regents Dr. · College Park, MD 20742 USA Privacy Notice Site Map Terp Resources Web Accessibility ×