Skip to main content Toggle subitems Main navigation Meet Princeton Toggle sub-items In Service of Humanity Facts & Figures History Honors & Awards Contact Us Visit Us Our Faculty Our Students Our Alumni Our Staff Our Leadership Academic Freedom and Free Expression Academics Toggle sub-items Studying at Princeton Library Areas of Study Humanities Social Sciences Engineering Natural Sciences Advising Academic Calendar Course Tools Learning Abroad Career Development Continuing Education Innovative Learning Research Toggle sub-items Engineering & Applied Science Humanities Natural Sciences Social Sciences Interdisciplinary Approach Dean for Research Office External Partnerships Facilities & Labs One Community Toggle sub-items Lifelong Connections Student Life Arts & Culture Athletics Living in Princeton, N.J. Housing & Dining Activities & Organizations Cultural & Affinity Groups Health & Wellness Religious Life Serving the Public Good Families Admission & Aid Toggle sub-items Affordable for All About Financial Aid Current Undergraduate Financial Aid Undergraduate Admission Graduate Admission For International Students Utility menu News Events Work at Princeton Services & Resources Work-Life Balance Links for Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Giving Search Sites & People × Share on Facebook Share on Twitter Share on LinkedIn Email Print Energy leaders are convening at the White House for a summit on the commercialization of clean fusion energy Jeanne Jackson DeVoe, Princeton Plasma Physics Laboratory March 17, 2022, 8:22 a.m. Steve Cowley, director of the Princeton Plasma Physics Laboratory (PPPL), was among a group of national leaders in fusion energy who met in Washington, D.C., on March 17 for a White House summit hosted by the White House Office of Science and Technology Policy (OSTP) and the U.S. Department of Energy (DOE). The summit, “Developing a Bold Decadal Vision for Commercial Fusion Energy,” is the first step in a Biden-Harris administration initiative to accelerate commercial fusion energy, a clean energy technology that uses the same reaction that powers the Sun and stars. “Fusion is a potential carbon-free, abundant source of clean energy that will bolster American leadership, strengthen energy security, and enable sustained energy independence,” the White House said in a statement. Watch: What is fusion energy? A Princeton physicist explains The summit brought together government, industry, academic and other stakeholders to initiate discussions exploring the promise of the technology and the remaining challenges. “Princeton University Professor Lyman Spitzer began the U.S. pursuit of commercial fusion energy when he established our laboratory more than 70 years ago,” Cowley said, "and we have made remarkable progress since then. Indeed, the first significant energy from fusion reactions was obtained at our lab in 1994. Recent advances have laid the science and engineering foundations needed for a fusion energy pilot plant.” “Today is a key moment in making this grand challenge a reality, and I’m delighted to be part of this summit," Cowley said Thursday. "Our lab is eager to help realize the bold vision.” Steve Cowley, director of the Princeton Plasma Physics Laboratory (PPPL), and Amelia Chambliss, a recent DOE Science Undergraduate Laboratory Internship (SULI) student at PPPL, at the White House summit, “Developing a Bold Decadal Vision for Commercial Fusion Energy,” on March 17, 2022. Photo by Ben Chang, Office of Communications The White House also announced that the DOE will launch an agency-wide initiative to accelerate the viability of commercial fusion energy. The initiative will be facilitated by a new DOE lead fusion coordinator, Scott Hsu, reporting to the undersecretary for science and innovation. Hsu, program director at the Advanced Research Projects Agency-Energy (ARPA‑E), earned a Ph.D. in astrophysical sciences from Princeton University, was a National Undergraduate Fellow at PPPL, and has a bachelor’s degree in electrical engineering from the University of California, Los Angeles. Among the climate and energy experts participating in the summit were U.S. Secretary of Energy Jennifer Granholm, Alondra Nelson, head of OSTP, and Gina McCarthy, the White House national climate advisor, along with congressional representatives and leaders from universities, national laboratories and private industry. Key topics on the agenda included these: Discussing the state of fusion technology and its benefits to the climate, energy security and U.S. global competitiveness. Defining the steps needed to build a fusion industry that supports energy and environmental justice, energy ethics, environmental sustainability, diversity and effective public engagement. Outlining the fusion industry’s visions and challenges, and how the U.S. government can accelerate fusion technology. As a world-leading laboratory in fusion energy research, PPPL has been forging partnerships with private industry on research to develop fusion energy for years. Through the DOE’s Innovation Network for Fusion Energy (INFUSE), PPPL has received funding for 13 such partnerships, including research projects with TAE Technologies and Commonwealth Fusion Systems. PPPL is also working with private industry to apply plasma science to industries of the future such as the production of microelectronics and quantum computing. One such partnership is a cooperative research and development agreement (CRADA) to conduct research aimed at improving microchip production with Lam Research Corp., a worldwide supplier of equipment to fabricate chips. Energy justice and public engagement The summit also focused on how to ensure “that the benefits of fusion are shared in equitable and just ways across our communities,” the White House said, noting that one key objective was “to bring a wide range of voices to the table for an inclusive and early conversation about the future of fusion technology.” Among the panelists for a summit session on “Energy Justice and Public Engagement,” was Amelia Chambliss, a recent DOE Science Undergraduate Laboratory Internship (SULI) student at PPPL. Chambliss, a graduate of Reed College with a bachelor’s degree in physics, will attend graduate school at Columbia University in applied physics and mathematics in the fall and is planning to become a plasma physicist. “My generation is really passionate about environmental justice and equity,” she said. “It’s great to be able to talk to people who are experts on environmental justice and hear their thoughts and solutions, especially when related to fusion energy.” Chambliss also said she would like to see more women and people of color enter the pipeline to become scientists and engineers in the fusion energy field. “We’re trapping stars on planet Earth and trying to solve one of the biggest problems our planet has ever faced,” she said. “What little kid wouldn’t want to be part of that? Tomorrow’s leaders of the fusion community are out there. They just haven’t heard about it yet. More on fusion research and innovation View All News DOE extends University PPPL contract University News: Read more A timeline of innovation and impact at Princeton Plasma Physics Laboratory Research: Read more Fisch receives funding for 'unlikely but fantastic' clean energy technology Innovation: Read more PPPL researcher's work yields a breakthrough for a promising fusion-energy device Innovation: Read more White House and U.S. Department of Energy leaders meet at PPPL to discuss accelerating timeline to produce electricity from fusion energy: Read more How the Princeton Plasma Physics Lab contributed to the new world record in clean fusion energy Research: Read more Princeton alumna and postdoctoral fellow wins award for groundbreaking plasma physics Award: Read more Massive underground instrument finds final secret of our sun’s fusion Research: Read more Astrophysicist Kunz receives NSF award for research and for establishing plasma physics summer school aimed at attracting underrepresented students to field Award: Read more Princeton’s new supercomputer, Traverse, to accelerate scientific discovery in fusion research Innovation: Read more New national facility will explore low-temperature plasma — a dynamic source of innovation for modern technologies Innovation: Read more Artificial intelligence accelerates efforts to develop clean, virtually limitless fusion energy Research: Read more 'Ghost' particles, gliding through sun, reveal inner workings of solar furnace Research: Read more ‘These Vibes Are Too Cosmic’ brings science to WPRB Campus Life: Read more Fisch receives Fusion Power Associates’ Distinguished Career Award Award: Read more Secretary of Energy Perry says PPPL research has potential to ‘change the world’ University News: Read more Princeton astrophysicist Bhattacharjee leads team to create framework for an optimal fusion energy device Research: Read more Princeton senior's thesis project makes material difference in quest for fusion energy Academics: Read more William Tang wins 2018 Global Impact Award to advance development of AI software to help create a 'star on earth’ Award: Read more First plasma for new machine to study process that occurs throughout the universe Research: Read more Artificial intelligence helps accelerate progress toward efficient fusion reactions Research: Read more PPPL completes shipment of electrical components to power site for ITER, the international fusion experiment International: Read more PPPL dedicates upgraded fusion reactor, a powerful new 'star on Earth': Read more Video: Plasmas are hot, fusion is cool: Read more Contact links Contact Us Accessibility Advanced People Search Media Inquiries Website Feedback Visiting links Plan a Visit Maps & Shuttles Varsity Athletics Giving to Princeton Academic links Library Academic Calendar Student Links Faculty & Staff Links Footer social media Facebook Twitter Instagram Snapchat LinkedIn YouTube Social Media Directory Equal Opportunity and Nondiscrimination at Princeton University: Princeton University believes that commitment to principles of fairness and respect for all is favorable to the free and open exchange of ideas, and the University seeks to reach out as widely as possible in order to attract the ablest individuals as students, faculty, and staff. In applying this policy, the University is committed to nondiscrimination on the basis of personal beliefs or characteristics such as political views, religion, national or ethnic origin, race, color, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity or expression, pregnancy, age, marital or domestic partnership status, veteran status, disability, genetic information and/or other characteristics protected by applicable law in any phase of its education or employment programs or activities. In addition, pursuant to Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 and supporting regulations, Princeton does not discriminate on the basis of sex in the education programs or activities that it operates; this extends to admission and employment. Inquiries about the application of Title IX and its supporting regulations may be directed to the Assistant Secretary for Civil Rights, Office for Civil Rights, U.S. Department of Education or to the University's Sexual Misconduct/Title IX Coordinator. See Princeton’s full Equal Opportunity Policy and Nondiscrimination Statement. Princeton University Princeton, NJ 08544 Operator: (609) 258-3000 © 2022 The Trustees of Princeton University Subfooter links Copyright Infringement Privacy Notice