Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu ACAD 1100 ACAD Courses Student Resources Meet the Staff Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact ACAD 1100 Courses Choose the ACAD course that's the best fit for you. Welcome Freshmen to the UofM! First Week of School: Know Before You Go What is ACAD 1100? Everything Freshmen Students should know to be successful in college at the UofM. PreviousNext Take Action Register for ACAD 1100 Calculate Your GPA Contact Us Home ACAD 1100 Helping students learn the skills to succeed. Purpose The purpose of ACAD 1100 is to help new students make a successful transition to the University of Memphis, both academically and personally. This course aims to foster a sense of belonging, promote engagement in the curricular and co-curricular life of the university, articulate to students the expectations of the UofM and its faculty, help students develop and apply critical thinking skills, and help students continue to clarify their purpose, meaning and direction. Over 50% of new incoming Freshmen take ACAD 1100 their first semester. ACAD has been taught at the UofM for over 25 years ACAD 1100 is taught by UofM faculty and staff who are committed to helping freshmen have a successful college career. Goals and Objectives I. Foster academic success As a result of this course, students will ... a) Adapt and apply appropriate academic strategies to their courses and learning experiences. b) Identify and apply strategies to effectively manage time and priorities. c) Identify relevant academic policies, processes and resources related to their academic success and timely completion of degree requirements. II. Discover and connect with the University of Memphis As a result of this course, students will ... a) Identify and use appropriate campus resources and engage in opportunities that contribute to their learning within and beyond the classroom. b) Develop positive relationships with peers, staff and faculty. c) Discover the history, purpose and traditions of the UofM. III. Promote personal development, well-being and social responsibility As a result of this course, students will ... a) Clarify their values, and identity and articulate how these shape their perspectives and relationships with people who are similar to and different from themselves. b) Examine and develop strategies that promote well-being and explain how wellness impacts their academic and personal success. c) Initiate a process toward the attainment of personal and professional goals and articulate potential pathways to employability. Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 3/14/22 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.