Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Department of Computer Science About News Future Students Current Students Research People Outreach Giving Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact Degree Programs BS Computer Science Accelerated BS/MS Program MS Computer Science PhD Computer Science Graduate Certificate in Cybersecurity and Information Assurance (Available Online) Graduate Certificate in Data Science (Available Online) Online Offerings Take Action Career Paths Degree Programs Courses Contact Us Follow Us Online FacebookLinkedn Home Computer Science Degree Programs Accelerated BS/MS Program Accelerated BS/MS Program As of Fall 2020, this program allows qualified students to earn 12 credit hours toward completion of both undergraduate and master's degrees in Computer Science simultaneously. Completion of both degrees within 5 years is possible. Students must still formally apply to the graduate program upon completion of their undergraduate degree; however, the GRE exam requirement is waived for qualified students in the accelerated program. To qualify for enrollment in this program, a COMP major must have a minimum cumulative and major GPA of 3.25 and be within 30 credit hours of undergraduate degree completion. Furthermore, the student must be sponsored by his or her academic advisor. The process for ABM coursework is as follows: Student meets with advisor for approval into the ABM program Advisor goes over ABM program and requirements with the student, provided the student meets the required GPA. Advisor then contacts Grad School to have the ABM attribute added provided the program and courses are acceptable. Advisor fills out the ABM form and issues the ABM permit Advisor fills out and signs the ABM form PRIOR to registration. The ABM form should only contain courses for terms that have open registration. If the student is wishing to take a course for a future term, an additional form must be filled out once registration opens for that term. Advisor issues an ABM Permit on SFASRPO, allowing the student to register for the GR level course. This will override the Level Restriction error. If the student attempts to register beforehand, they will receive the error, preventing them from registering. The Special Approval Permit is no longer used for ABM registration. If the advisor does not have access to SFASRPO, the department can issue the permit. Advisor then sends the ABM form to the student's Graduation Analyst for their signature. Graduation analyst review The student's Graduation Analyst reviews and signs the ABM form. The analyst then forwards the ABM form to the Registrar's Office for processing. Registrar's Office processes the ABM request Once the ABM form is received, the Registrar's Office will confirm the student has been granted approval by Graduate School and check SFASRPO for the ABM permit. If one is not present, an ABM permit will be issued for the course, allowing the student to register. After issuing the permit for the graduate course, the UG equivalent is then added to the student's record with an 'I' grade and comment of 'Accelerated BS/MS Program'. Once EOT grading is completed and a grade is issued for the graduate course, the 'I' grade is then changed on the UG equivalent to reflect either 'S' or 'U', and the 'Accelerated BS/MS Program' comment is added to the graduate course. For detailed program requirements, please refer to the Undergraduate Catalog. Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 9/13/21 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.