Skip to main content Florida State University Search FSU Select Search Type FSU Sites Faculty & Staff Directory Departments & Services Close Search Academics Admissions Research Faculty Students Veterans Support FSU Get to Know FSU About Florida State Administration Athletics FSU Facts FSU's Economic Impact Global FSU Land Acknowledgement Map of Campus Visitor Services News & Events Calendar of Events FSU Highlights & Rankings Press Research Initiatives Critical Thinking kNOw MORE FSU Tools & Resources Canvas Distance Learning Information Technology Services Libraries myFSU Service Centers and Help Desks Tutoring Policy & Safety Diversity & Inclusion Emergency Info FSU Regulations Police and Safety Policies Public Records Requests Strategic Plan Title IX Business & Employment Departments Directory Doing Business with Florida State Employment FSU Bookstore Human Resources Join Our Seminole Family Admissions Advocate for Florida State Alumni Association Giving to FSU Registrar Seminole Boosters Veterans Initiatives Close Menu Florida State University Academics Admissions Research Faculty Students Veterans Support FSU Menu Overview Academic Departments and Programs Degree Offerings and Academic Programs Research Centers and Institutes Degree Offerings and Academic Programs Florida State University is a comprehensive degree granting university, offering baccalaureate degrees in 103 programs, master's degrees in 107 programs, advanced master's/specialist degrees in six programs, doctorates in 63 programs, and four professional degrees. The university offers fully accredited professional programs in law (J.D.), medicine (M.D.) and nursing. Degree programs are available at branch campuses in Sarasota, Panama City, Florida, and the Republic of Panama. In addition, the university offers several undergraduate and graduate degree programs that may be completed partially or entirely online. The College of Medicine has regional campuses in Daytona Beach, Ft. Pierce, Orlando, Pensacola, Sarasota and Tallahassee. Students complete their required clinical rotations at one of these locations. In these urban centers and the surrounding rural areas, the clinical training program extends into hospitals, skilled nursing facilities, managed care organizations, private clinics and other outpatient settings. Targeted rural clinical training sites are located in Marianna and Immokalee. The Ringling Museum in Sarasota, affiliated with Florida State University, is the largest museum/university complex in the U.S. and houses one of the most significant collections of fine art in North America. The university has year-round study centers in London, England; Florence, Italy; Panama City, Panama; and Valencia, Spain. Prestigious FSU faculty also lead summer programs in locations across the globe. Academics Quick Links Academic Calendar Admissions Center for Academic & Professional Development Center for Undergraduate Research and Academic Engagement Global FSU The Graduate School Honors Program Institute of Science and Public Affairs Libraries Office of Distance Learning Office of Graduate Fellowships and Awards Office of National Fellowships – Undergraduate Professional Schools College of Law College of Medicine Overview Academic Departments and Programs Degree Offerings and Academic Programs Research Centers and Institutes © Florida State University Tallahassee, FL 32306 FSU Directory Assistance Questions or Comments Privacy Policy Copyright Like Florida State on Facebook Follow Florida State on Instagram Follow Florida State on Twitter" Follow Florida State on Youtube Connect with Florida State on LinkedIn More FSU Social Media