Skip to main content SMU Explore SMU Academics Undergraduate Admission Student Affairs About News Athletics Events Calendar Bush Center Prospective Students Current Students Alumni Faculty & Staff Apply to SMUGIVE NOW Alumni Menu Search Volunteer as an Alum SMU alumni and parent volunteers are champions of Mustang spirit. Whether you’re near the Hilltop or around the globe, you can help support the next generation of world changers. Also in Volunteer Opportunities Admission Volunteers Career Volunteers Hilltop Volunteers Regional Network Leader Board Leadership SMU Admission Volunteers Connect with outstanding prospective SMU students and their parents online, over the phone or in person to share the benefits of an SMU education. After receiving training and resources about current campus life, SMU will match you with admitted students based on common interests. Once matched, volunteers contact these students or their parents to congratulate them on their acceptance to SMU, share their personal experiences and answer questions. At times, volunteers attend special receptions and events for admitted students in their area. Time commitment: one to three hours between January and May. Sign up Career Mentoring Share your professional career insights and experiences to help prepare students for a career after the Hilltop. Volunteers provide resume feedback for current SMU students and help them sharpen their interview skills. Some volunteers provide one-day job shadowing opportunities, attend networking events or career fairs and participate on alumni panels. Time commitment: varies by activity; one to two hours each. Sign up Hilltop Volunteers Serve the Dallas/Fort Worth community alongside fellow Mustangs. Respond to service opportunities via email and participate when it’s convenient for you. Examples of past projects include conducting SMU campus tours for local students, reading to a local elementary school class, participating with the Park Cities Fourth of July and Martin Luther King, Jr. parades, and volunteering at local charitable organizations. Time commitment: a minimum of one activity per year is required; one to three hours per activity. Sign up Regional Network Leader Connect alumni, parents and friends to each other and SMU in regions around the world. Volunteers partner with SMU staff to help plan events in their area that help alumni stay connected. Other responsibilities may include representing SMU at area receptions for admitted students and college fairs. Attend regular virtual planning meetings with SMU to get started. Time commitment: an average of one to three hours per month. Apply to become a regional network leader in Atlanta, Chicago, Houston, Los Angeles, New York, San Francisco or Washington, D.C. Want to volunteer for a network in your area? Email smualumnichapters@smu.edu Sign up Board Leadership Alumni Board members represent undergraduate- and graduate-degreed alumni to internal and external communities. Each board supports University priorities and champions distinct fundraising and engagement initiatives. Click below to learn more about board service opportunities: Alumni Board Young Alumni Board Black Alumni of SMU Board Latino Alumni of SMU Board Asian Pacific Islander Alumni of SMU Board Apply NowVisit Us Back to top Academics Cox School of Business Dedman College of Humanities and Science Dedman School of Law Lyle School of Engineering Meadows School of the Arts Moody School of Graduate and Advanced Studies Perkins School of Theology Simmons School of Education & Human Development SMU CAPE SMU Libraries The Guildhall Audience Links Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Alumni Faculty & Staff Media Parents Quick Links SMU Ignited: Boldly Shaping Tomorrow COVID-19 Information (Mustang Strong) Bush Center SMU Store Academic Calendar Events Calendar Employment Giving to SMU Virtual Tour Get in Touch Contact Us Maps Directions Compliance Legal Disclosures Report Sexual Harassment Reporting a BIAS Incident HEERF Reporting Emergency Preparedness Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkedIn YouTube © Southern Methodist University, PO Box 750100, Dallas, TX 75275 Groups and Networks Regional Alumni Networks Alumni Affinity Groups Golden Mustangs SMU Network Facebook Instagram LinkedIn YouTube Update your info Events Upcoming Events 50-Year Reunion Homecoming Distinguished Alumni Awards Taos Cultural Institute SMU Alumni Travel Program Volunteer Opportunities Alumni Board Young Alumni Board Black Alumni Board Hispanic Alumni Board Asian Pacific Islander Alumni Board Hilltop Volunteers Career Mentoring Admission Volunteers Class Ambassadors Regional Chapter Leaders News and Stories Featured Stories Mustangs in the Wild SMU News Class Notes SMU Magazine SMU Stories Resources Hegi Career Center Continuing Education Order a transcript SMU Bookstore Alumni Credit Card Alumni Insurance Program Refer a Mustang SMU Alumni Relations Giving Give now Alumni Giving SMU Giving Day Mustang Crowdfunding News Athletics SMU Store Cox Alumni Dedman Alumni Dedman Law Alumni Meadows Alumni Perkins Simmons Alumni Update your info Submit a class note Give Menu Search Search Submit Popular Searches Current Students Undergraduate Admission Graduate Admission Faculty & Staff Majors & Minors Alumni COVID-19 Information (Mustang Strong) Did you know? SMU's singular approach to integrating rigorous learning with hands-on experience will prepare you to achieve your educational goals and expand your world in ways you never imagined. Ours is a community of people forging their own paths. We'd like to help you shape yours. Plan your visit Menu Search