By continuing to use this site, you agree to the use of cookies in accordance with our privacy policy. Dismiss Stay Safe The official source of public health information for Syracuse University. Skip to Content Open menu About Admissions Academics Life Athletics More Search the University Open search Popular searches Close menu Home About Toggle dropdown Leadership Vision & Mission Consumer Information Facts & Figures Plan Your Visit Campus Map History News Partnerships Work at Syracuse Social Media Bookstore Brand Help & Contacts Admissions Toggle dropdown Undergraduate Graduate Online Part-Time Cost & Aid Request Information Visit & Tour Apply Academics Toggle dropdown Schools & Colleges Undergraduate Majors & Minors Graduate Degrees Online Programs Syracuse University Global Study Abroad Opportunities & Support Calendars Departments Research Centers & Institutes Libraries, Collections & Galleries Academic Administration Life Toggle dropdown Accessibility & Diversity Campus Highlights Events Calendar Services & Support Meals & Dining Housing Groups & Activities Recreation & Facilities For Students For Veterans & Military For Faculty & Staff For Parents & Families A-Z Index Sitemap Login Athletics Men’s Sports Toggle dropdown Basketball Cross Country Football Lacrosse Rowing Soccer Track and Field Women’s Sports Toggle dropdown Basketball Cross Country Field Hockey Ice Hockey Lacrosse Rowing Soccer Softball Tennis Track and Field Volleyball Athletics Dept. Toggle dropdown Facilities Staff Directory Academic Honors Community Service Spirit Program Varsity Club Sports Medicine Championships Fan Zone Toggle dropdown Dome Schedule Seating Information Orange All Access Otto’s Kids Club Game Photos Promotions Orange Club Schedules News Alumni About Toggle dropdown Notable Alumni Alumni Association Awards News Events and Clubs Toggle dropdown Orange Central Northeast Midwest South West World/Affinity Regions Toggle dropdown Atlanta Boston Chicago Los Angeles Middle East New York San Francisco Washington, DC Services Toggle dropdown Career Network Generation Orange Directory Profile Class Notes Giving Contact Contact Visit Apply Coronavirus Updates Forever Orange Home Stories Our Time Has Come Our Time Has Come Scholarships Allow Students to Flourish Aspiring physician values leadership skills, community and network she has discovered at Syracuse University. Taylor John ’22 says Syracuse University was her dream school, and thanks to her own passion, persistence, academic performance and, importantly, an Our Time Has Come (OTHC) Scholarship , she is living her dream and pursuing even bigger ones. Majoring in citizenship and civic engagement and international relations in the Maxwell School and the College of Arts and Sciences —with a concentration in global health and policy and a minor in Chinese language —John hopes to pursue a graduate degree in global health and go on to medical school. “I plan to become a physician, either a pediatric surgeon or an OB-GYN. And ideally I’d like to work internationally, do Doctors Without Borders and piece together my global mindset and my passion for social justice and civic engagement all in one, with an international perspective. I want to travel to experience radically different cultures and perspectives from mine, providing health care where it’s not readily available.” Being an OTHC Scholar, John has access to a large and growing network of Black and Latino alumni who can mentor, advise and inspire students. She loves the Coming Back Together (CBT) gatherings that celebrate achievements and a shared purpose “to connect like-minded individuals, create a safe space for people of color, students of color, alumni of color, and, most importantly, to give back so that future generations can have the same feeling of purpose in their life,” she says. John believes CBT and OTHC are “crucial for students of color because it's our place away from home. These organizations, these programs, allow students of color to flourish on campus. It creates an opportunity.” I’ve been leaning a lot on my resources, whether it was directors or friends in leadership positions. They’ve definitely taught me to lean on my network, and the importance of networking in college and how that can help me to get to my goals, later on in life. —Taylor John ’22 John has grown up with a sense of purpose and appreciation for differences. Raised in a Caribbean American household of Guyanese, Jamaican, Chinese and Cuban ancestry, she has traveled to more than 15 countries. During high school, she studied in China, Italy and Cuba—and she speaks Mandarin. It was the travel that exposed her to inequities in health care accessibility. “In Jamaica, I saw the difficulties my family had getting access to vaccinations, medications and doctors we take for granted here,” she says. “Ironically, quality care is only afforded to those who can afford it, and most cannot afford it.” The OTHC program nurtures leadership development in its scholarship recipients through programming and networking. John says it has taught her “patience and the importance of community and friendship. I’ve learned the importance of resources through the leadership program. I’ve been leaning a lot on my resources, whether it was directors or friends in leadership positions. They’ve definitely taught me to lean on my network, and the importance of networking in college and how that can help me to get to my goals, later on in life.” She says the OTHC network allows her to “reach out to people who are surgeons, to people who have graduated from Maxwell, and to people who have international perspectives and are traveling all over the world, utilizing those resources and making those connections that I otherwise might not have had. Our Time Has Come also has prepped me for the real world, the competitive world, in a sense where I have to challenge myself to be great, to be better than the next person in the field that I'm engaging in.” On campus, she demonstrates her passion for engaged leadership as chapter president of the Alpha Kappa Alpha Sorority; president of the National Pan-Hellenic Council; co-chair of diversity affairs for the Student Association; campus ambassador for One Love, an organization that promotes safe and healthy relationships on college campuses; peer health advocate for Planned Parenthood; and a member of Phi Sigma Pi National Honor Fraternity and Iota Iota Iota Women’s Honor Society. To John, Syracuse University is all about community. She had heard about the Orange community from the time she was little. Her father, Trevor M. John ’95, and 10 cousins all attended the University. John’s family contributes to the OTHC Scholarship program, as she intends to do after graduation. “I love this school,” says John. “Syracuse has challenged me to dive deeper than what I’m used to, to get out of my box, my shelter, and to be more confident in who I am as a student, as a young woman and as an Orange woman.” Eileen Korey This story was published on October 22, 2020. Also of Interest Link The Maxwell School of Citizenship and Public Affairs Link The Maxwell School of Citizenship and Public Affairs is Syracuse University’s home for innovative, interdisciplinary teaching and research across the social sciences, public policy, public administration, and international relations Syracuse Stories Link The Orange story has thousands of chapters. Discover some of the people, programs and research that fuel Syracuse University's undeniable spirit. Popular Toggle dropdown Academic Calendar Campus Map Careers Libraries Majors and Minors Visit and Tour A-Z Toggle dropdown Academic Departments Schools and Colleges Sitemap Search Contact Toggle dropdown Admissions Financial Aid Emergency Contacts Human Resources Make a Gift Login Toggle dropdown MySlice Blackboard SUMail Syracuse University 900 South Crouse Ave. Syracuse, NY 13244 Phone: +1.315.443.1870 Follow S.U. on Instagram Like S.U. on Facebook Follow S.U. on Twitter Follow S.U. on LinkedIn Follow S.U. on Tiktok Subscribe to S.U. on YouTube © Syracuse University. Knowledge crowns those who seek her. Accessibility Accreditation Emergencies Privacy