Skip to main content Skip to main navigation Baylor Magazine - Spring 2022 Menu Features Guiding BEARs Being Baylor Online 18 Online Professional Programs Impacting Our World Thasunda Brown Duckett, M.B.A. '01 Alex Le Roux, B.S. '15 Rebekah Naylor, B.A. '64, M.D Susan Peters, B.A. '86 Giancarlo Guerrero, B.M. '91 Christopher Scott, B.A. '04 Fran George, A.B.C. '16 The Meaning of R1 Along Fifth Street An Upward Trajectory Baylor Grads Finding Success After Graduation Georgia Senior Wins Churchill Scholarship The Best Hour of the Week Baylor's New Front Door Honoring Baylor's First Black Grads Baylor Law Moot Court Team Wins First Place Endowment Elevates FastBacc® Program New Sculpture Accents Truett Prayer Garden Honors Residential College Improvements Bears Roar on Twitter Caring for Student Mental Health Students Return to Spring Break Service Baylor Welcomes Black Business Student Association Baylor Pianist Wins National Honors Endeavors The Meaning of R1 Fanfare Elite Programs Our Time Lenard Looks to Lead Women's Soccer to New Heights Give Light $1.1 Billion and Counting Faces of Give Light 2022 Founders Medal Recipients: Paul and Alejandra Foster Alumni News & Notes Alumni-elected Regent Selection Barbara Calhoun Cargill Ryan D. Pratt Mark M. Shelton Class Notes A Global Bear Freddy's fronted by Baylor Bear Forbes Recognizes Baylor Alumna 1940s-60s 1970s 1980s 1990s 2000s 2010s Friends & Family Bear Cub Corner In Memoriam Submit a Class Note or Obit Address Update A Look Back About About Baylor Magazine Subscribe Address Update Previous Issues Thasunda Brown Duckett, M.B.A. '01 Alumna of the Year Baylor>Baylor Magazine - Spring 2022>Features>Impacting Our World>Thasunda Brown Duckett, M.B.A. '01 Thasunda Brown Duckett, M.B.A. '01 From an early age, Thasunda Brown Duckett’s father taught her to shoot for the moon because even if she missed, she would be amongst the stars. In May 2021, Duckett became only the third Black female CEO of a Fortune 500 company when she was named top executive of TIAA. Duckett is the first female CEO of TIAA, a leading provider of secure retirements and outcome-focused investment solutions to millions of people and thousands of institutions. TIAA is the No. 1 nonprofit retirement market provider, paid more than $4.2 billion to retired clients in 2021 and has nearly $1.4 trillion in assets under management as of Aug. 30, 2021. “When I think about the opportunity to lead and to be in a position to have a voice, it’s deep within me, because I know that I can be the change,” Duckett says. “I know that I can bring a different perspective to how to solve some of the toughest problems in our country.” Born in Rochester, New York, Duckett and her family moved to New Jersey before settling in Texas. Her father was a warehouse driver for Xerox, and her mother was a teacher. “We didn’t have a lot,” Duckett says. “We had our financial insecurities. We had our ups and downs. But through it all, our faith and our values were at the center of everything.” After earning undergraduate degrees in finance and marketing from the University of Houston, Duckett entered the workforce at the Federal National Mortgage Association, commonly known as Fannie Mae. She later moved to JPMorgan Chase & Co., where she held a variety of positions and was eventually CEO of Chase Consumer Banking before accepting the top position at TIAA. Duckett credits her humble upbringing for instilling her foundational values of faith, character, teamwork, tenacity and work ethic. She references a line from one of her favorite books — Lean In: Women, Work, and the Will to Lead by Sheryl Sandberg — in saying that had she mapped her own career, she would have missed it. “Growing up, I didn’t know what corporate America was,” Duckett says. “While in college and pursuing my M.B.A. at Baylor, every step of the way, I felt connected with this inner spirit around financial insecurity. How can more Americans have access to the ability to take care of their families and ultimately transfer something to the generation after them?” Duckett entered Baylor’s Executive M.B.A. program while working at Fannie Mae. She says Baylor’s values made it the ideal choice, and she praised the professors for their caliber of teaching, genuine care and beneficial conversations. “It was also about the other students; we all had similar values,” Duckett says. “We were curious about learning. We loved Baylor, and we became better leaders through the program. The M.B.A. was more than a piece of paper.” Duckett was among the top 10 women on the 2021 Fortune Most Powerful Women list. She also landed on the 2021 EBONY Media Power 100 list and earned the Executive Leadership Council Achievement Award. In 2013, Duckett honored her parents by founding the Otis and Rosie Brown Foundation, which advances the belief that all have the duty to extend a helping hand. Throughout her career, Duckett has been a passionate advocate for closing achievement gaps in wealth creation, educational outcomes and career success. She has served in numerous volunteer roles that support minorities and enhance professional growth. “For me, it’s personal. I know what it’s like to open up the refrigerator and only see baking soda. And somehow my parents made a way. I know what it’s like to rent and not have home ownership until I graduated and helped my parents buy their first home,” Duckett says. “You can’t help but be grateful that you have an opportunity to write new stories, to show what’s possible for other young girls or people that just don’t see themselves in power positions based on their background.” 2022 Alumni Award Recipients Thasunda Brown Duckett, M.B.A. '01 Alumna of the Year Alex Le Roux, B.S. '15 Young Alumnus of the Year Rebekah Naylor, B.A. '64, M.D Pro Ecclesia Medal of Service Susan Peters, B.A. '86 Pro Texana Medal of Service Giancarlo Guerrero, B.M. '91 Contributions to the Professions Christopher Scott, B.A. '04 Contributions to the Professions Fran George, A.B.C. '16 Merrie Beckham Alumna By Choice of the Year Features Guiding BEARs Being Baylor Online 18 Online Professional Programs Impacting Our World Thasunda Brown Duckett, M.B.A. '01 Alex Le Roux, B.S. '15 Rebekah Naylor, B.A. '64, M.D Susan Peters, B.A. '86 Giancarlo Guerrero, B.M. '91 Christopher Scott, B.A. '04 Fran George, A.B.C. '16 The Meaning of R1 General Information Colleges, Schools, Libraries & Research Admissions Administration Gateways For... About Baylor Anonymous Reporting Athletics Ask Baylor Bookstore Calendar Campus Map Directory Give Light Give to Baylor Illuminate Mental Health Resources News Pro Futuris Report It Search Social Media Title IX Baylor Libraries College of Arts & Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work George W. Truett Theological Seminary Graduate School Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Louise Herrington School of Nursing Research at Baylor University Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Engineering & Computer Science School of Music More Academics Undergraduate Admissions goBAYLOR Graduate Admissions Baylor Law School Admissions Social Work Graduate Programs George W. Truett Theological Seminary Admissions Online Graduate Professional Education Virtual Tour Visit Campus Annual Fire Safety and Security Notice Athletics Human Resources Marketing and Communications Office of General Counsel Office of the President Office of the Provost Operations, Finance & Administration Senior Administration Student Life University Advancement Baylor Alumni Faculty & Staff Online Graduate Professional Education Parents Prospective Faculty & Staff Prospective Students Students Copyright © Baylor® University. All rights reserved. Legal Disclosures. Baylor University • Waco, Texas 76798 • 1-800-229-5678 Features Guiding BEARs Being Baylor Online 18 Online Professional Programs Impacting Our World Thasunda Brown Duckett, M.B.A. '01 Alex Le Roux, B.S. '15 Rebekah Naylor, B.A. '64, M.D Susan Peters, B.A. '86 Giancarlo Guerrero, B.M. '91 Christopher Scott, B.A. '04 Fran George, A.B.C. '16 The Meaning of R1 Along Fifth Street An Upward Trajectory Baylor Grads Finding Success After Graduation Georgia Senior Wins Churchill Scholarship The Best Hour of the Week Baylor's New Front Door Honoring Baylor's First Black Grads Baylor Law Moot Court Team Wins First Place Endowment Elevates FastBacc® Program New Sculpture Accents Truett Prayer Garden Honors Residential College Improvements Bears Roar on Twitter Caring for Student Mental Health Students Return to Spring Break Service Baylor Welcomes Black Business Student Association Baylor Pianist Wins National Honors Endeavors The Meaning of R1 Fanfare Elite Programs Our Time Lenard Looks to Lead Women's Soccer to New Heights Give Light $1.1 Billion and Counting Faces of Give Light 2022 Founders Medal Recipients: Paul and Alejandra Foster Alumni News & Notes Alumni-elected Regent Selection Barbara Calhoun Cargill Ryan D. Pratt Mark M. Shelton Class Notes A Global Bear Freddy's fronted by Baylor Bear Forbes Recognizes Baylor Alumna 1940s-60s 1970s 1980s 1990s 2000s 2010s Friends & Family Bear Cub Corner In Memoriam Submit a Class Note or Obit Address Update A Look Back About About Baylor Magazine Subscribe Address Update Previous Issues