Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Woods College of Advancing Studies Information for: Admitted Students Alumni Current Students Education Partners Executive Education Faculty International Students Nondegree Students Prospective Faculty Veterans Visiting Students Transfer Students Search BC.edu Links Menu Main Nav Boston Conference on Cyber Security Back Back Close Welcome Program Speakers Conference Hosts & Sponsors Close Directory A to Z Listing Search Woods College site Search BC.edu Find pages or people Search Close Close Apply Visit Give Admitted Students Alumni Current Students Education Partners Executive Education Faculty International Students Nondegree Students Prospective Faculty Veterans Visiting Students Transfer Students BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close For the past six years, Boston College and the Federal Bureau of Investigation have hosted the Boston Conference on Cyber Security, a one-day event featuring compelling lectures and panel discussions from international leaders in the disciplines of emerging technologies, operations and enforcement, and real-life cyber and national security concerns. At a time of growing concern about the vulnerability of our nation’s information systems, this conference provides an opportunity for leaders in cybersecurity from the academic, analytic, operations, research, corporate, and law enforcement arenas to come together and coordinate their efforts, creating a more secure cyber-space. BCCS 2022 Gasson Hall and Streaming | Wednesday, June 1, 2022 | 8:45 a.m. EST BCCS 2022 is a one-day conference that will focus on the disciplines of emerging technologies, operations and enforcement, and real life cyber and national security experiences involving risk, compliance, policy, threat trends, preparedness, and defensive strategies. Also included are sponsors’ exhibitions and exceptional networking opportunities. Learn more BC Master of Science (M.S.) in Cybersecurity Policy and Governance News FBI director keynotes cybersecurity conference at Boston College Christopher A. Wray addressed the fourth annual event organized by the FBI and BC's M.S. in Cybersecurity Policy and Governance Program. Threat 'wider than ever' FBI Deputy Director David L. Bowdich addressed the third annual conference on cyber security organized by the agency and Boston College. James Comey speaks at 2017 BCCS FBI Director James B. Comey and a slate of experts joined the Woods College for a daylong cyber security conference. Back To Top Back To Top Boston Conference on Cyber Security Woods College of Advancing Studies St. Mary's Hall South, Ground Floor Chestnut Hill, Massachusetts 02467 617-552-3900 woodscollege@bc.edu About Admission Undergraduate Graduate Faculty Community Apply Contact Give Visit Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkedIn Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College