Your browser does not support iframes. Skip to main content Menu Scheller College of Business Request More Information Attend an Info Session Contact Us Directory Apply Now Search Why Scheller? Programs Executive Education Academics Centers & Initiatives News & Events Overview & History Dean's Message and Report Meet Ernest Scheller Jr. Advisory Board Accreditation Strategic Plan Business at Tech Graduates Get Hired Return on Investment Faculty and Advisors Global Perspective A Good Fit Corporate Engagement Trading Floor Georgia Tech Community Student Life Making Connections and Learning Opportunities Diversity Diversity News Career and Recruiter Services Career Services for Students Hire Our Students Giving to the College Meeting the Challenge Priorities and Needs Faculty Support Student Support Program Enrichment Unrestricted Endowment The Impact of Your Gift How to Make a Gift FAQs Scheller MBA Annual Fund Alumni Network Alumni News Alumni Resources Update Contact Information Visit Campus Tech Square and Atlanta Full-time MBA Admissions Curriculum Career Development Leadership Development Student Organizations Student & Alumni Profiles Meet an MBA Ambassador FAQsEvening MBA Admissions Curriculum Career Advancement Leadership Development Student Organizations Student & Alumni Profiles Meet an MBA Ambassador FAQs Executive MBA Admissions Curriculum Career Development Student & Alumni Profiles FAQsMBA Programs Which Georgia Tech MBA is Right for Me? Commitment to Diversity, Inclusion, and Equity Dual Degree Options Experiential Learning For Engineers For Military Community MD/MBA Option MBA Early Admission for Undergrads Rankings The Intersection Podcast Earn Your MBA in Atlanta Graduate Certificate Business Analytics Certificate Undergraduate Admissions Curriculum Career Services Student Services Student Life Scholarships & Awards Rankings & Stats Connect With Us The Intersection Podcast, Undergrad PhD Concentrations Program Milestones Faculty and Staff Funding Admissions FAQs Recruiting Events Student Bios Program News Request Program Information Interdisciplinary M.S. M.S. in Quantitative & Computational Finance (QCF) Master of Science in Analytics at Georgia Tech Lean Six Sigma Certification Lean Six Sigma Green Belt Certification Lean Six Sigma Black Belt Certification FAQs Custom Programs FAQs Accounting Finance Information Technology Management Law & Ethics Marketing Operations Management Organizational Behavior Strategy & Innovation Student Certificates Engineering Entrepreneurship Entrepreneurship International Management Management of Technology Technology Innovation: Generating Economic Results Academic Speaker Series Guest Speakers in Accounting Guest Speakers in Finance Guest Speakers in Marketing Current Faculty Opportunities Business Analytics Center Engage with Us Executive Council News Research Education People Cecil B. Day Program for Business Ethics About Cecil B. Day The Cecil B. Day Prize Speakers and Events Faculty Support Net Impact Center for International Business Education and Research Projects Research Events Books People at CIBER Inside CIBER News and Events Archives International Management Certificate Sign Up for Future CIBER News Financial Analysis Lab Subscribe to Reports Institute for Leadership and Social Impact About Us Programs News Impact Speaker Series Leadership for Social Good Study Abroad Program Social Impact Fellows Ideas to Serve (I2S) Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Servant Leadership Programs Minor in Leadership Studies Excel Alumni Other ILSI Programs Partnerships Program for Engineering Entrepreneurship Ray C. Anderson Center for Sustainable Business About Us Sustainable Business Insights Research Briefs Sustainable Business Events Sustainable Business News Blog Research & Thought Leadership Empowering Students Industry Engagement Newsletter Participating in the Drawdown Georgia Compact Drawdown Georgia Business Compact Meet the Team Alumni Steven A. Denning Technology & Management Program Director's Message About Steven A. Denning T&M Curriculum Program Faculty & Staff Admissions T&M Corporate Affiliates Denning T&M Program News TI:GER® and CDL-Atlanta Program Network TI:GER MBA & PhD FAQs News Apply Inquire Resources in Technology Innovation and Entrepreneurship Scheller News Event Calendar The Intersection Podcast Media Inquiry Marketing Innovation Conference @ Scheller Undergraduate Curriculum Home » Programs » Undergraduate » Curriculum » Curriculum Menu Undergraduate Curriculum Concentrations Certificates Courses Minors Admissions Career Services Student Services Student Life Scholarships & Awards Rankings & Stats Connect With Us The Intersection Podcast, Undergrad The Bachelor of Science in Business Administration (BSBA) degree program is a four year business program that prepares students with a full range of intermediate and advanced business skills in the areas of Accounting, Finance, Information Technology Management, Leadership and Organizational Change, Marketing, Operations & Supply Chain Management, and Strategy & Innovation. The Georgia Tech BSBA The BSBA curriculum allow you to complete all degree requirements, one semester abroad and two internship semesters in four years. The four-year curriculum check-list suggests the order in which to take classes, but you do not have to complete the degree in the order shown on the check-list. You can build your own personal four year plan with your advisor, moving around courses on the check-list depending on career and personal goals. Most freshmen take one or two business classes to begin learning about the BSBA major. Study abroad programs, internships, and classes are offered every semester (fall, spring and summer). You will work with your advisors to determine which semesters are best for these opportunities. Four-Year Curriculum Credit Sheet BSBA Degree Requirement Checklist Georgia Tech Core Courses The BSBA curriculum consists of a series of foundational courses, required by the University System of Georgia, in the areas of English, Mathematics, Humanities, Social Science, Computer Science, Health, and Laboratory Science. These courses are required of all Georgia Tech students. Georgia Tech Core Requirements Business Core Courses The following courses are the business core courses required in the BSBA degree program: ACCT 2101 & 2102; MGT 2106, 2210, 2250, 2255, 3062, 3101, 3102, 3300, 3501,3599, 3660, and 3659. Concentrations and Electives Students build on their core coursework with electives to complete their concentration. Concentrations provide an additional depth to develop greater skill and knowledge while increasing competitiveness for top jobs within specific career areas. BSBA students must use their 18 credits of Concentration electives to complete one of the approved concentrations. Students work with their academic advisor and faculty members to choose their concentration based on work experience, completed coursework, and the student's objectives (career and otherwise). Students can only complete one concentration, but are welcome to finish one or more of our certificates to gain additional depth in other areas. Approved Concentrations Certificates Complete Listing of MGT Course Descriptions (All Not Offered Every Semester) Non-management Electives: Students must complete a minimum of six credit hours of non-management electives, which are courses taught outside of the Scheller College of Business. These courses offer students an opportunity to pursue certificates and minors outside of the College of Business. Free Electives: Free electives are courses offered by any discipline on campus, both inside and outside of the Scheller College of Business. Students must complete a minimum of eleven credit hours of free elective credit. Free electives offer students the opportunity to finish certificates or minors outside the Scheller College of Business or to complete additional certificates within the Scheller College of Business. Certificates & Minors: Georgia Tech offers numerous minors to supplement your Georgia Tech degree. You can determine which departments offer certificates by viewing the appropriate department website. Both BSBA and non-BSBA undergraduate students may add a certificate, but please note that some certificates are only offered to BSBA or non-BSBA students. You must be a degree-seeking undergraduate student to earn a certificate. Georgia Tech Minors Georgia Tech Degree Programs and Certificates Customize your BSBA degree at Georgia Tech The options below are not required but are available to all students as voluntary additions to their degree. Study Abroad BSBA students have access to many study abroad programs that offer courses that apply directly to BSBA degree requirements. Learn More Minors Students may earn a minor from more than 30 minor programs and academic areas here at Georgia Tech. BSBA students may use their non-major or free elective classes towards these minors. Learn More Certificates Students may earn a certificate from Scheller or another academic area at Georgia Tech. The Scheller College of Business offers twelve (12) business certificates which a student may earn in addition to their undergraduate degree. Learn More Scheller College of Business Home Why Scheller? Overview & History Business at Tech Georgia Tech Community Career and Recruiter Services Giving to the College Alumni Network Visit Campus Tech Square and Atlanta Programs MBA Undergraduate PhD Interdisciplinary M.S. Executive Education Lean Six Sigma Certification Custom Programs Academics Accounting Finance Information Technology Management Law & Ethics Marketing Operations Management Organizational Behavior Strategy & Innovation Student Certificates Academic Speaker Series Current Faculty Opportunities Centers & Initiatives Business Analytics Center Cecil B. Day Program for Business Ethics Center for International Business Education and Research Financial Analysis Lab Institute for Leadership and Social Impact Program for Engineering Entrepreneurship Ray C. Anderson Center for Sustainable Business Steven A. Denning Technology & Management Program TI:GER® and CDL-Atlanta News & Events Scheller News Event Calendar The Intersection Podcast Media Inquiry Marketing Innovation Conference @ Scheller LinkedIn Instagram Facebook Twitter Youtube Flickr Georgia Institute of Technology Scheller College of Business 800 W. Peachtree St. NW Atlanta, GA 30308 404.894.2600 © 2022 Georgia Institute of Technology Intranet Emergency Information Contact the College Privacy & Legal Notice Accountability Web Accessibility Resources for People with Disabilities Plugins Youtube Usage Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Hazing Public Disclosures