Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Rudi E. Scheidt School of Music About Us Admissions Academics Ensembles Faculty Support Events Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact Majors and Programs Composition Commercial Music Conducting Jazz Studies Music Business Music Education Music History Pedagogy Performance Brass Keyboard Percussion Strings Vocal Arts Woodwinds Recording Technology Vocology Certificate Take Action Apply Now Alumni Support Us Scheidt Family Music Center Contact Us Follow the School of Music Online InstagramFacebooktwitterYoutubeLinkedInVimeo Home Music Academics Vocal Arts What degrees do we offer? Bachelor of Music in Performance Instruction in performance leading to the Bachelor of Music in Music with a concentration in Performance is provided for the following areas: Trumpet, Horn, Trombone, Tuba, and Euphonium (Brass Instruments); Piano, Harpsichord, and Organ (Keyboard Instruments); Percussion; Violin, Viola, Violoncello, Bass, Guitar, and Harp (String Instruments), Flute, Oboe, Clarinet, Saxophone, and Bassoon (Woodwind Instruments); Voice. For required courses and recommended timeline for degree completion, visit the academic catalog for Bachelor of Music in Performance. APPLY NOW > Master of Music in Performance For degree plans and required courses, view the Master of Music in Performance sample degree plan. APPLY NOW > Accelerated MM-to-DMA For degree plans and required courses, view the Accelerated MM-to-DMA in Performance sample degree plan. APPLY NOW > Doctor of Musical Arts in Performance For degree plans and required courses, view the Doctor of Musical Arts in Performance sample degree plan. APPLY NOW > Artist Diploma in Performance For degree plans and required courses, view the Artist Diploma in Performance sample degree plan. APPLY NOW > Current Student & Alumni Success Isabel Celata (MM ‘21) received first place at the Beethoven Club Young Artist Competition in 2021. In 2021, Christa Navy (MM ‘21) was a Canto Opera Studio Artist and was a District competitor at the 2020 Metropolitan Opera National Council Auditions. Shannon Lowe Redburn (DMA ‘21) performed with Opera Memphis for “30 Days of Opera” in 2019 and 2021. Alyce Tarver (DMA ‘21) was named an adjunct instructor of voice in the Department of Theatre and Dance for the University of Memphis. In 2021, Cassie Warthen (MM ‘21) received second place in the Music International Grand Prix Competition, regional level. Brianna Reilly (MM '20, DMA In progress) became a voice teacher at Memphis Music Studio in 2021. In 2020, Emma Halpin (BME ‘20) founded the Music Garden Music Academy. A studio for private music lessons in voice, violin, and piano serving the Memphis area. Nancy Carey (DMA ‘19) is currently an Assistant Professor of Voice and Theory at University of Louisiana Monroe. Marissa Howard (MM ‘19) received 1st place in the Beethoven Club Young Artist Competition. TJ Turner (DMA In progress) was appointed to an adjunct teaching position at Coahoma Community College in Clarksdale, MS. Bradley Sowell (DMA In progress) was appointed to an adjunct teaching job at Rhodes University in Memphis, TN. Desiree Soto (MM '20, DMA In progress) received the Encouragement Award Metropolitan Opera National Council Auditions. Judith Morehouse (DMA In progress) is now an Instructor of Music and Director of Choral Activities at Columbia State Community College in Columbia, Tennessee. Voice Faculty click here > Vocal Ensembles click here > Auditions click here > Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 3/14/22 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.