Search | Directories | Reference Tools UW Home > Discover UW > Student Guide UW Bothell Course Descriptions UW Tacoma Course Descriptions Glossary COLLEGE OF ARTS & SCIENCES SCANDINAVIAN STUDIES SCANDINAVIAN Detailed course offerings (Time Schedule) are available for Spring Quarter 2022 Summer Quarter 2022 Autumn Quarter 2022 SCAND 100 Introduction to Scandinavian Culture (5) VLPA/I&S The Scandinavian experience from the Viking Age to the present day; the background for contemporary Scandinavian democracy, with major emphasis on the cultural, political, and religious development of the Scandinavian countries. View course details in MyPlan: SCAND 100 SCAND 150 Norwegian Literary and Cultural History (5) VLPA A survey of Norwegian literary and cultural history from the Vikings to the present. Authors read include Bjornson, Ibsen, Hamsun, and Roolvaag. View course details in MyPlan: SCAND 150 SCAND 151 Finnish Literary and Cultural History (5) VLPA A survey of Finnish literature and cultural history during the nineteenth and twentieth centuries. Authors studied include Lonnrot, Snellmann, Kivi, Sodergran, Linna, Haavikko, and Kaurismaki. View course details in MyPlan: SCAND 151 SCAND 152 Latvian Literary and Cultural History (5) VLPA Grinberga Survey of Latvian literary and cultural history from the nineteenth century to the present. Authors include Pumpurs, Rainis, Aspazija, Blaumanis, Nesaule, Bels, and Zalite. View course details in MyPlan: SCAND 152 SCAND 153 Introduction to Lithuanian Literary and Cultural History (5) VLPA Valanciauskiene Surveys Lithuanian literary and cultural history from the Medieval period to the present. Authors include Dauksa, Maironis, Biliunas, Ciurloinis, Boruta, Granauskas, Aputis, Vilimaite, Milosz, and others. View course details in MyPlan: SCAND 153 SCAND 154 Estonian Literary and Cultural History (5) VLPA G. Smidchens Surveys Estonian literary and cultural history from the prehistoric period to the present. Authors, musicians, artists, and filmmakers include Kaplinski, Koidula, Kreutzwald, Vilde, Part, Tormis, Meri, Parn, Pollu, and others. Offered: jointly with JSIS A 154; AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: SCAND 154 SCAND 155 Danish Literary and Cultural History (5) VLPA Hansen Introduces the literary and cultural history of Denmark. Focuses on several major literary works and cultural moments from the Viking Age, the Enlightenment, nineteenth-century Romanticism, twentieth-century Modernism, and current Danish literature, journalism, and film. View course details in MyPlan: SCAND 155 SCAND 156 Introduction to Swedish Literary and Cultural History (5) VLPA I. DUBOIS, A. GAVEL ADAMS Introduction to modern Swedish literature, culture, and contemporary discourses on race, multiculturalism, gender equality, and LGBTI. Offered: WSp. View course details in MyPlan: SCAND 156 SCAND 175 Nobel Prize in Literature (3) VLPA Andrew Nestingen Studies institution of Nobel prize, with focus on literature and Nobel-prize winners' works. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: SCAND 175 SCAND 200 Scandinavia Today (5) VLPA/I&S C. INGEBRITSEN Examines the distinctive policies, institutions, and social norms, and cultures of contemporary Scandinavian societies. Topics include: the development of a "middle way" between capitalism and socialism, the welfare state, social policy, Scandinavia in the international system, and contemporary debates about market deregulation and immigration. Course uses examples from policy debate and culture as objects of study. View course details in MyPlan: SCAND 200 SCAND 230 Introduction to Folklore Studies (5) I&S/VLPA Guntis Smidchens Folkloristics combines the methods and ideas of Literature Studies and Anthropology. Folktales (fairy tales), legends, jokes, songs, proverbs, customs and other forms of traditional culture are studied together with the living people and communities who perform and adapt them. Students learn the folklorist's methods of fieldwork (participant observation), ethnography, comparative analysis, and interpretation. Offered: jointly with C LIT 230; AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: SCAND 230 SCAND 232 Hans Christian Andersen and the Fairy Tale Tradition (5) VLPA Influence of Hans Christian Andersen and the fairy tale on modern Scandinavian tales and stories. Investigates the significance of the fairy tale in the modern world, with attention to writers such as Isak Dinesen, Knut Hamsun, Villy Sorensen, William Heinesen. View course details in MyPlan: SCAND 232 SCAND 251 Holberg and His Comedies in English (2) VLPA Holberg and his major dramas, with attention to the comic tradition in the Scandinavian theatre. View course details in MyPlan: SCAND 251 SCAND 270 Sagas of the Vikings (5) VLPA Icelandic sagas and poetry about Vikings in the context of thirteenth-century society. View course details in MyPlan: SCAND 270 SCAND 271 Film Analysis: Northern Perspectives (5) VLPA Andrew Nestingen Tools and perspectives for exploring cinema, focusing on films from the circumpolar region. Objectives: (1) learning a set of key terms for the study of film and television; (2) gaining an understanding of film and television as cultural productions; (3) doing a sequence analysis. Recommended: first-year composition. Offered: W, even years. View course details in MyPlan: SCAND 271 SCAND 275 Crime Scenes: Investigating the Cinema and Its Cultures (5) VLPA Teaches how to analyze film by closely studying crime scenes from historical and contemporary German and Scandinavian cinema. Directors studied include Fritz Lang, Carl Th. Dreyer, Billy Wilder, and Lars von Trier. Offered: jointly with GERMAN 275. View course details in MyPlan: SCAND 275 SCAND 280 Ibsen and His Major Plays in English (5) VLPA Reading and discussion of Ibsen's major plays. View course details in MyPlan: SCAND 280 SCAND 312 Masterpieces of Scandinavian Literature (5) VLPA Major works of Scandinavian literature by selected authors. View course details in MyPlan: SCAND 312 SCAND 315 Scandinavian Crime Fiction (5) VLPA Nestingen Studies Scandinavian crime-fiction literature and cinema since 1965, approaching crime fiction as a changing cultural artifact. Analyzes major issues and texts in the genre and its public status, while also training students in critical approaches to study of popular literature and culture. Offered: jointly with JSIS D 317; Sp. View course details in MyPlan: SCAND 315 SCAND 316 Child and School in Scandinavia (5) VLPA/I&S A. NESTINGEN The child and school in Scandinavia as constructed and represented in film and literature. Approaches child and school through key cultural examples and scholarly studies of these topics. Focal areas include changing historical notions of childhood and youth, schooling, the welfare state, and Finnish schools. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: SCAND 316 SCAND 326 Scandinavia in World Affairs (5) I&S C. INGEBRITSEN Introduction to the foreign relations of Scandinavia with a focus on Nordic security, international economic pressures, and global conflict resolution. Includes a survey of the national settings for international involvements and highlights the dilemmas for industrial societies exposed to the pressures of interdependence. Offered: jointly with POL S 326. View course details in MyPlan: SCAND 326 SCAND 327 Women in Scandinavian Society (5) VLPA/I&S Examines the changing position of women in Norway, Denmark, Finland, and Sweden from the 1880s to the contemporary period. Readings in literature and political science. View course details in MyPlan: SCAND 327 SCAND 330 Scandinavian Mythology (5) VLPA Integrative study of religious life in the pre-Christian North. Emphasis on source materials, including the Prose Edda and Poetic Edda. Discussion of historical, archeological, and folkloric evidence. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: SCAND 330 SCAND 331 Folk Narrative (5) VLPA Survey of various genres of folk narratives studied in performance contexts to reveal their socio-cultural functions in a variety of milieux. Theory and history of folk narrative study, taxonomy, genre classification, and interpretative approaches. Offered: jointly with C LIT 331. View course details in MyPlan: SCAND 331 SCAND 334 Immigrant and Ethnic Folklore (5) VLPA/I&S Survey of verbal, customary, and material folk traditions in ethnic context. Theories of ethnic folklore research applied to the traditions of American communities of Scandinavian, Baltic, or other European ancestry. Offered: jointly with C LIT 334. View course details in MyPlan: SCAND 334 SCAND 335 Scandinavian Children's Literature (5) VLPA The history, forms, and themes of Scandinavian children's literature from H. C. Andersen to the present. Exploration of the dominant concerns of authors, adult and non-adult audiences, and the uses to which juvenile and adolescent literature are put. Film adaptations and Scandinavian-American materials included. View course details in MyPlan: SCAND 335 SCAND 340 Kalevala and the Epic Tradition (5) VLPA An interdisciplinary approach to the Finnish national epic Kalevala, Estonian Kalevipoeg, and Saami Peivebarnen suongah jehtanasan maajisn. Discussion of traditional worldview, cultural revitalization, and emergent nationalism in nineteenth- and twentieth-century Finland, Estonia, and Saamiland. View course details in MyPlan: SCAND 340 SCAND 341 Sami Culture and History (5) I&S/VLPA, DIV An interdisciplinary look at the culture of the indigenous Sami people in Scandinavia from the earliest archeological and textual evidence to the present day. Focus on indigenous modes of expression and worldview, as well as contemporary cultural and political activism. The course pays special attention to the history of institutional racism, which has impacted the Sami people since the 18th century. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: SCAND 341 SCAND 344 The Baltic States and Scandinavia (5) I&S Survey of the cultures and history of Estonia, Latvia, and Lithuania from the Viking Age to the present, with particular attention to Baltic-Scandinavian contacts. Offered: jointly with JSIS A 344. View course details in MyPlan: SCAND 344 SCAND 345 Baltic Cultures (5) VLPA/I&S Cultures and peoples of Estonia, Latvia, and Lithuania. Baltic literature, music, art, and film in social and historical context. Traditional contacts with Scandinavia and Central and East Europe. Offered: jointly with JSIS A 345. View course details in MyPlan: SCAND 345 SCAND 350 Environmental Norms in International Politics (5) I&S Ingebritsen Surveys development of international environmental consciousness from 1960s to present. Models of "green development"; ways in which norms for resource use have entered global politics. Patterns of state compliance with international environmental agreements, and why states fall short of meeting their international obligations. Offered: jointly with ENVIR 360/JSIS B 350. View course details in MyPlan: SCAND 350 SCAND 351 Scandinavia, the European Union, and Global Climate Change (5) I&S Reviews the history of climate change, the role of Swedish scientist Svante Arrhenius in defining greenhouse effects, Scandinavian policy response, and the role of the European Union in global climate change. Offered: jointly with JSIS A 351; WSp. View course details in MyPlan: SCAND 351 SCAND 352 Innovation in Scandinavia (5) I&S C. Ingebritsen Innovation, the introduction of something new, an idea, a method, a device or product, is underexplored in the Humanities and Social Science literature. Reviews the major writers in the innovation literature. Innovation crosses disciplines, and creates wealth and employment from Scandinavian to North American neo-liberal capitalism, where ideas seek investment capital in a competitive, Darwinian environment. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: SCAND 352 SCAND 355 Literatures of the Arctic (5) VLPA/I&S, DIV Andy J. Meyer Primary emphasis on Scandinavian and Sami literature. Comparative consideration of texts by Canadian, Inuit, and Greenlandic authors. Includes literary representations of Arctic landscapes, culture, and history; climate change; indigenous and colonial encounters; survival and resilience; and environmental and political issues. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: SCAND 355 SCAND 360 Scandinavian Cinema (5) VLPA A. Doxtater, A. Nestingen Major Scandinavian films and film directors from the 1920s to the present. View course details in MyPlan: SCAND 360 SCAND 361 Danish Cinema (5) VLPA Studies Danish Cinema from its first major director Carl Th. Dreyer to contemporary directors, such as Lars von Trier and Susanne Bier, as well as trends and forms, such as Art House, Popular Cinema, and TV-Series. Offered: AWSp. View course details in MyPlan: SCAND 361 SCAND 365 Finnish Popular Culture (5) VLPA Ilona Harmavaara Intensive exploration of Finnish culture. Popular culture is a window to the multilayerdness of a society: tradition and innovations, international and national, high and low cultures, mainstream and underground, majorities and minorities, and different media and genres. Recommended: SCAND 151; FINN 101; and FINN 102. Offered: Sp, odd years. View course details in MyPlan: SCAND 365 SCAND 367 Sexuality in Scandinavia: Myth and Reality (5) VLPA/I&S Examines selected Scandinavian literary and socio-political texts, films, and art to manifest the reality behind the myths of sexual freedom in Scandinavia. View course details in MyPlan: SCAND 367 SCAND 370 The Vikings (5) VLPA/I&S Vikings at home in Scandinavia and abroad, with particular emphasis on their activities as revealed in archaeological finds and in historical and literary sources. Offered: jointly with HSTAM 370. View course details in MyPlan: SCAND 370 SCAND 372 Old Norse-Icelandic (5) VLPA Lauren Poyer Grammar and vocabulary for translating standardized Old Norse to American English. Introduces medieval textual and literary genres, including historical chronicles, mythology, runestones, skaldic poetry, and Viking sagas. View course details in MyPlan: SCAND 372 SCAND 375 Vikings in Popular Culture (5) VLPA Lauren Poyer Explores media representations of "the Vikings" in popular culture over the past 200 years in Europe and the United States, including advertising, comics, film, literature, music, poetry, propaganda, television series, and video games. Compares these modern artistic productions with their medieval counterparts, and examines how the Vikings have functioned as vessels for a variety of cultural fantasies about gender, class, race, and religion. View course details in MyPlan: SCAND 375 SCAND 380 History of Scandinavia to 1720 (5) I&S Scandinavian history from the Viking Age to 1720, with an emphasis on the political, social, and economic development of Denmark, Norway, Sweden, Finland, and Iceland from the Middle Ages to the Enlightenment. Offered: jointly with HSTEU 380. View course details in MyPlan: SCAND 380 SCAND 381 History of Scandinavia Since 1720 (5) I&S Scandinavian history from the Enlightenment to the Welfare State with emphasis on the political, social, and economic development of the modern Scandinavian nations of Denmark, Norway, Sweden, Finland, and Iceland. Offered: jointly with HSTEU 381. View course details in MyPlan: SCAND 381 SCAND 399 Foreign Study in Scandinavia (1-5, max. 20) Pan-Scandinavian coursework in Scandinavia, including courses in English. View course details in MyPlan: SCAND 399 SCAND 402 International Political Economy and Scandinavia (5) I&S Overview of the most prominent theoretical approaches to the study of international political economy. Evaluates competing theories and applies these to explain contemporary problems in international political economy. Readings include examples from Scandinavia's experience. View course details in MyPlan: SCAND 402 SCAND 427 Scandinavian Women Writers in English Translation (5) VLPA, DIV Selected works by major Scandinavian women writers from mid-nineteenth-century bourgeois realism to the present with focus on feminist issues in literary criticism. Offered: jointly with GWSS 429. View course details in MyPlan: SCAND 427 SCAND 430 Readings in Folklore (5) VLPA Exploration of theoretical and methodological issues in folklore studies through independent reading of journal articles published during the last five years. Offered: jointly with C LIT 430. View course details in MyPlan: SCAND 430 SCAND 431 The Northern European Ballad (5) VLPA Integrative study of the Northern European Ballad, with an emphasis on texts, performance, context, history, theory, genre classification, and interpretive approaches. Offered: jointly with C LIT 431. View course details in MyPlan: SCAND 431 SCAND 437 Politics in Scandinavia (5) I&S Christine Ingebritsen Twentieth-century politics in Scandinavia. How Scandinavian countries have been governed. Costs and consequences of their governmental style and its uncertain future. Optimal size of polities, problems of mature welfare states, process of leadership and representation in multiparty systems, decline of political parties. Offered: jointly with POL S 437. View course details in MyPlan: SCAND 437 SCAND 445 War and Occupation in Northern Europe: History, Fiction, and Memoir (5) VLPA/I&S, DIV The study of literary representations (fiction, memoirs, and personal narratives) dealing with World War II and the occupation of the Nordic and Baltic countries. Offered: jointly with JSIS A 442. View course details in MyPlan: SCAND 445 SCAND 450 Scandinavian Literary History (3) VLPA Survey of Scandinavian literary history. View course details in MyPlan: SCAND 450 SCAND 454 Baltic History (5) I&S Overview of the history of the area occupied by the Baltic countries of Latvia, Lithuania, and Estonia. Emphasizes their emergence as modern European nation-states. Era from World War I to present treated in depth, including the historical role and present situation of non-Baltic peoples, particularly Russians. Offered: jointly with HSTEU 454. View course details in MyPlan: SCAND 454 SCAND 455 Baltic Politics and Society Today (5) I&S G. Smidchens Intensive interdisciplinary survey of current social, political, and economic developments in Estonia, Latvia, and Lithuania. Offered: jointly with JSIS A 455; AWSp. View course details in MyPlan: SCAND 455 SCAND 460 History of the Scandinavian Languages (5) VLPA Development of languages from common Scandinavian to contemporary Danish, Norwegian, Swedish, Faroese, and Icelandic. View course details in MyPlan: SCAND 460 SCAND 462 Isak Dinesen and Karen Blixen (5) VLPA The fiction of Isak Dinesen (pseudonym for Karen Blixen) reevaluated in light of current issues in literary criticism, particularly feminist criticism. Close readings of selected tales, essays, and criticism. Offered: jointly with GWSS 462. View course details in MyPlan: SCAND 462 SCAND 465 Translation Workshop in Nordic and Baltic Languages (5) VLPA Examines translation theories and god practices within the field of translation. Introduces the most common translation tasks within pragmatic text translation and literary translation. Provides students opportunities to strengthen their professional skill set and get feedback from professional translators. Language of instruction and target language for translations is English. View course details in MyPlan: SCAND 465 SCAND 470 Scandinavian Auteurs (5, max. 10) VLPA Nestingen Studies the body of work of Scandinavia's auteur filmmakers. Introduces the theory and history of auteur cinema, with special attention to Scandinavian filmmakers' contribution. Offered: jointly with C LIT 474; AWSp. View course details in MyPlan: SCAND 470 SCAND 479 Eco-Capitalism (5) I&S Ingebritsen Explores the idea of environmentalism and sustainability across societies. Compares and contrasts how prominent authors in the field assess the risks and opportunities of human effects on climate and ecology. Questions explored include: will ecological solutions be critical to the revival of the global economy? Why do place such as Europe adapt more readily to environmental challenges? Offered: jointly with JSIS A 429. View course details in MyPlan: SCAND 479 SCAND 480 Kierkegaard and Decadence in European Literature (5) VLPA Reading and discussion of core texts by Soren Kierkegaard, as well as a consideration of the relationship between Kierkegaardian thought and the literary practice of various writers of Scandinavian and European decadence. Offered: jointly with JSIS A 480. View course details in MyPlan: SCAND 480 SCAND 481 August Strindberg and European Cultural History (5) VLPA/I&S Examines the work of Swedish dramatist, novelist, and painter August Strindberg, in the context of European literary movements and history of ideas from 1880 to 1912, and Strindberg's influence on twentieth-century drama and film. Offered: jointly with JSIS A 481. View course details in MyPlan: SCAND 481 SCAND 482 Knut Hamsun and Early European Modernism (5) VLPA Reading and discussion of significant novels by Knut Hamsun, whose oeuvre is considered in the context of works by other European modernist writers. Offered: jointly with JSIS A 482. View course details in MyPlan: SCAND 482 SCAND 490 Special Topics (1-5, max. 15) Special topics in Scandinavian art, literature, culture, and history. Course offerings based on instructor's specialty and student demand. View course details in MyPlan: SCAND 490 SCAND 495 Foreign Study: Research Project (1-5, max. 10) Research on approved topic. View course details in MyPlan: SCAND 495 SCAND 498 Senior Capstone Project (3/5) Undergraduate research and the preparation of a capstone project in Scandinavian area studies. Recommended: Completion of majority of major requirements. Typically taken winter or spring quarter of senior year. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: SCAND 498 SCAND 499 Independent Study or Research (1-5, max. 10) Independent study or research in Scandinavian area studies. May be done in a Scandinavian language or in English. View course details in MyPlan: SCAND 499 SCAND 500 Introductory Readings in Old Icelandic (5) Systematic study of the grammatical structure of Old Icelandic and the reading of several short prose works. View course details in MyPlan: SCAND 500 SCAND 501 Old Icelandic Language and Literature (5) Reading of a major work in Old Icelandic literature as a vehicle for discussions about literary history and genre, narrative, and rhetorical strategies. View course details in MyPlan: SCAND 501 SCAND 503 Methods of Scandinavian Studies (5) Introduction to Scandinavian studies on the graduate level with emphasis on Scandinavian literature, folklore, history, and politics. View course details in MyPlan: SCAND 503 SCAND 504 Contemporary Literary Theory (5) Contemporary literary theory and its application to Scandinavian texts. Prerequisite: graduate student standing or permission of instructor. View course details in MyPlan: SCAND 504 SCAND 505 Topics in Scandinavian Drama and Film (5, max. 15) Seminar on a selected topic in Scandinavian drama or film, such as an author (Holberg, Ibsen, Strindberg, Bergman), a period, a genre, or a movement. View course details in MyPlan: SCAND 505 SCAND 508 Topics in Scandinavian Prose (5, max. 15) Seminar on various topics in Scandinavian prose, including shorter prose texts, as well as a selection of the significant novels of the nineteenth and twentieth centuries. View course details in MyPlan: SCAND 508 SCAND 510 Archives in Scandinavian Studies (5, max. 10) Guntis Smidchens, Andrew Nestingen, Marianne Stecher, Amanda Doxtater, Olivia N Gunn Investigates either actual archives (in buildings or online) in or related to the Nordic and Baltic regions; or, practices and methods of archival research; or, the archive as a theoretical concept. This concept refers to preservation, history, and memory, and also evokes law, authority, and social order. Offered: AWSp. View course details in MyPlan: SCAND 510 SCAND 511 Books in Scandinavian Studies (5, max. 10) Olivia N Gunn, Andrew Nestingen, Amanda Doxtater, Guntis Smidchens, Marianne Stecher Literary texts, genres, movements, themes, authorships, and/or the material culture of texts significant to the field which challenge categorizations of literary scholarship. Topics drawn from Nordic and Baltic literature. Offered: AWSp. View course details in MyPlan: SCAND 511 SCAND 512 Institutions in Scandinavian Studies (5, max. 10) Andrew Nestingen, Amanda Doxtater, Christine Ingebritsen, Marianne Stecher, Olivia N Gunn Cultural, educational, governmental, or social institutions significant to the Nordic and Baltic region; or, practices and methods of research on institutions; or, representation of the institution in literature and film. Role of cultural institutions and the arts in shaping public discourse. Offered: AWSp. View course details in MyPlan: SCAND 512 SCAND 513 Methods in Scandinavian Studies (5, max. 10) Amanda Doxtater, Christine Ingebritsen, Olivia N Gunn, Marianne Stecher, Andrew Nestingen Emphasis on cultural-studies approaches to cinema, folklore, language, literature, politics, and society. Investigates methods of Scandinavian Studies by exploring the critical theory of various sub-disciplines and examples of current scholarship. Offered: AWSp. View course details in MyPlan: SCAND 513 SCAND 514 Media in Scandinavian Studies (5, max. 10) Amanda Doxtater, Olivia N Gunn, Andrew Nestingen Cinematic texts, genres, movements, themes, authorships, and technologies significant to the field. Theories of film authorship. Applying theoretical understanding to the study of Scandinavian film, television, and online media. Topics drawn from Nordic and Baltic media. Offered: AWSp. View course details in MyPlan: SCAND 514 SCAND 515 Translation in Scandinavian Studies (5, max. 10) Amanda Doxtater, Andrew Nestingen, Olivia N Gunn, Guntis Smidchens, Marianne Stecher Literary and technical translation from Scandinavian, Finno-Urgric, and Baltic languages into English. Key translation theories and their applications. Exercises language skills by practicing and making use of different translation techniques. Offered: AWSp. View course details in MyPlan: SCAND 515 SCAND 518 Foreign Language Teaching Methodology (2) Brandl Current foreign language teaching methods and approaches. Learning and teaching strategies and techniques for the four skills (reading, writing, speaking, listening) including cultural notions. Current and future trends in pedagogy and technology. Offered: jointly with GERMAN 518/SLAVIC 518; A. View course details in MyPlan: SCAND 518 SCAND 519 Modern Scandinavian Politics (5) Analyzes the political, economic, and historical development of Sweden, Norway, Denmark, Iceland, and Finland from World War II to the present. Readings focus on domestic and foreign policies that distinguish these countries from other advanced industrial societies. Offered: jointly with POL S 519. View course details in MyPlan: SCAND 519 SCAND 520 Topics in Scandinavian Poetry (5, max. 15) Seminar on selected periods of Scandinavian poetry: romanticism, symbolism, modernism, and contemporary poetry. Poetry examined in relation to the literary canon of each country and to Scandinavian literature as a whole. International influences also discussed. View course details in MyPlan: SCAND 520 SCAND 525 Topics in Scandinavian History (5, max. 15) Seminar on selected topics in Scandinavian history. View course details in MyPlan: SCAND 525 SCAND 530 Old Norse Literature (3) Studies in the poetry and prose tradition of medieval Iceland and Norway. View course details in MyPlan: SCAND 530 SCAND 533 Interdisciplinary Approaches to Community in Scandinavia (5) Humanistic examination of community creation, maintenance, and change in the Nordic region. Examples drawn from folklore, literature, activism, popular culture, history. Focus on issues of gender, belief, and art in relation to community. Coursework includes both individual and collaborative assignments. View course details in MyPlan: SCAND 533 SCAND 543 Folk Literature (5) G. Smidchens This course surveys theories and methods for interpreting folk literature (folk tales and legends) in a variety of contexts, from oral performance through modern literary and film adaptations. View course details in MyPlan: SCAND 543 SCAND 565 Translation Workshop in Nordic and Baltic Languages (5) Examines translation theories and god practices within the field of translation. Introduces the most common translation tasks within pragmatic text translation and literary translation. Provides students opportunities to strengthen their professional skill set and get feedback from professional translators. Language of instruction and target language for translations is English. View course details in MyPlan: SCAND 565 SCAND 570 Scandinavian Auteurs (5, max. 10) VLPA Nestingen Seminar on auteur filmmakers in Scandinavian cinema, studying specific auteurs' bodies of work, theories of auteur cinema, and the history of auteurism in Scandinavian cinema. Offered: jointly with C LIT 574; AWSp. View course details in MyPlan: SCAND 570 SCAND 579 Eco-Capitalism (5) Ingebritsen Explores the idea of environmentalism and sustainability across societies. Compares and contrasts how prominent authors in the field assess the risks and opportunities of human effects on climate and ecology. Questions explored include: will ecological solutions be critical to the revival of the global economy? Why do place such as Europe adapt more readily to environmental challenges? Offered: jointly with JSIS A 529. View course details in MyPlan: SCAND 579 SCAND 580 Kierkegaard and Decadence in European Literature (5) Sjavik Examines Kierkegaardian thought and the literary practice of various writers of Scandinavian and European decadence. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: SCAND 580 SCAND 581 August Strindberg and European Cultural History (5) Adams Seminar on Swedish dramatist, novelist, scientist, and painter August Strindberg (1849-1912), on of Europe's most influential artists, and on of the most important innovators of modern drama. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: SCAND 581 SCAND 582 Knut Hamsun and Early European Modernism (5) Sjavik Examines Knut Hamsun's early works and their relationship to early European modernist literature. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: SCAND 582 SCAND 590 Special Topics in Scandinavian Literature (1-5, max. 15) View course details in MyPlan: SCAND 590 SCAND 594 Modern Methods and Materials in Teaching Scandinavian and Baltic Languages (3) Theory and practice of communicative language teaching; current developments in foreign-language teaching; evaluation of teaching materials; includes attendance at the departmental and university-wide fall orientation; required for beginning teaching assistants of Scandinavian and the Baltic languages. May not be taken for credit if GRDSCH 615 already taken. Prerequisite: SCAND 518. Credit/no-credit only. View course details in MyPlan: SCAND 594 SCAND 595 Teaching Assistant Workshop (1) Focuses on topics in language pedagogy. Required for continuing teaching assistants in Scandinavian studies. Includes participation in the departmental and University-wide fall orientation teaching workshops. Prerequisite: SCAND 518; SCAND 594. Instructors: Brandl Credit/no-credit only. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: SCAND 595 SCAND 600 Independent Study or Research (*-) Prerequisite: permission of instructor. View course details in MyPlan: SCAND 600 SCAND 700 Master's Thesis (*-) View course details in MyPlan: SCAND 700 SCAND 800 Doctoral Dissertation (*-) View course details in MyPlan: SCAND 800 Office of the University Registrar registrar@uw.edu Modified: May 30, 2022