Skip to main content Skip to main content my.SMU News & Events Library Master Calendar Skip to main content Apply Apply Give Give Contact Us Contact Us Follow Us Follow Us Facebook Follow Us Google+ Follow Us Twitter Follow Us LinkedIn Follow Us Tumblr Follow Us YouTube Follow Us Instagram Follow Us Social Stream Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. Navigate Search Social SMU Facebook SMU Google Plus SMU Twitter SMU LinkedIn SMU Tumblr SMU YouTube SMU Instagram Skip to main content Law About About Dean's Welcome Diversity and Inclusion Fast Facts Living & Studying in Dallas Why SMU Dedman Law? Academics Academics Academic Advising Academic Calendar Registrar's Office Academic Success Program (ASP) Bar Exam Resources Course Schedules and Registration Information Degree Programs Experiential Learning Externship Programs Forms Law Journals Planning Your Academic Program Study Abroad in Oxford Admissions Admissions Costs and Financial Aid FAQs J.D. Programs Graduate Programs How to Apply Meet Our Students Visiting SMU Virtual Tour of SMU Contact Admissions Alumni & Giving Alumni & Giving 2022 Alumni Happy Hours 2022 Reunion Weekend Alumni Chapters Career Services Class Notes Community Fellows Contact Alumni Relations Distinguished Alumni Awards Emerging Leader Board Executive Board Get Involved Law Firm Challenge Publications Update Alumni Information Career Services Career Services Students Employers Alumni Employment Statistics Career Services Team Contact Office of Career Services Reciprocity Centers & Initiatives Centers & Initiatives Jennifer M. Collins Women's Leadership Initiative Judge Elmo B. Hunter Legal Center For Victims of Crimes Against Women Robert B. Rowling Center for Business Law & Leadership Tsai Center for Law, Science and Innovation W. W. Caruth, Jr. Institute for Children's Rights Deason Criminal Justice Reform Center Clinics Clinics W.W. Caruth, Jr. Child Advocacy Clinic Civil/Consumer Clinic COVID-19 Legal Helpline Criminal Clinic Family Immigration Detention Clinic Federal Tax Clinic First Amendment Clinic Judge Elmo B. Hunter Legal Center for Victims of Crimes Against Women Innocence Clinic Patent Law Clinic Small Business and Trademark Clinic VanSickle Family Law Clinic Faculty Faculty Conferences, Symposia & Lecture Series Faculty Expertise Faculty in the News Faculty Profiles Research Public Service Public Service Completing Your Public Service Graduation Requirement Pre-Approved Placements Forms FAQs Planning a Public Service Career Internships & Fellowships Public Advocate Day Contact Public Service Program Staff Volunteer Income Tax Assistance (VITA) - Overview for law students only Students Students Office of Student Affairs Office of Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Financial Frequently Used Resources Graduation Information Inns of Court Program Mustang Exchange Scholarships and Writing Competitions Student Code of Professional Responsibility Student Organizations ☰ Law Clinics Civil/Consumer Clinic Civil/Consumer Clinic For more than 60 years the Civil/Consumer Clinic has provided representation for low-income clients in Dallas area federal and state courts. The Civil/Consumer Clinic is a one-semester, five-credit graded course (four credits in the summer) taught by a full-time tenured faculty member. With the assistance of a part-time supervisor, the clinic faculty supervises up to 12 students in each of the fall and spring semesters and up to 6 students in the summer semester. Additionally, each semester a limited number of students are permitted to enroll for a second clinic semester as “chief counsel” to provide continuity on complex active cases and to assist the new clinic students with routine matters. Students represent clients pursuant to the Student Practice Rules of the State Bar of Texas. Students are closely supervised by a clinic faculty member and learn by practicing in all aspects of the lawyering process. They conduct client and witness interviews, fact investigation, and legal research, and they advise and counsel their clients. Moreover, they conduct negotiations and mediations, engage in case planning, and written and oral discovery and also represent their clients sitting first chair in hearings and trials. In addition to the casework, students participate in a twice-weekly classroom component. Classes are team taught, and employ a variety of teaching methods using students’ cases as the primary vehicle to illustrate larger issues and to enable students to adopt a critical perspective on practice issues. Moreover, each clinic supervisor employs weekly one-on-one tutorials with students, and regular “firm meetings” are held by supervising attorneys with all students they supervise. The tutorials and firm meetings enable students and faculty to work on case planning and strategy and provide the setting for students and faculty to explore in more detail the substantive and lawyering issues raised by students’ casework. The Civil/Consumer Clinic’s dockets contain cases involving tenant advocacy, consumer litigation, civil rights, and other general litigation not including family law. For family law services, please click here for more information about SMU Dedman Law's VanSickle Family Law Clinic. The Civil/Consumer Clinic has reached its caseload capacity for the Spring 2022 term and we are no longer accepting applications for legal assistance. Please check back with us during the Fall 2022 term, after August 15, 2022. Civil/Consumer Clinic SMU Dedman School of Law P. O. Box 750116 Dallas, TX 75275-0116 Phone: 214-768-1125 Email: lawcivilc@smu.edu Fax: 214-768-1611 Contact Information Mary Spector Director of the Civil/Consumer Clinic, Associate Dean for Clinics and Professor of Law Eliot Shavin Assistant Director of Civil/Consumer Clinic and Adjunct Clinical Professor Lisa Montes Coordinator Civil/Consumer Clinic Mailing Address SMU Dedman School of Law P.O. Box 750116 Dallas, TX 75275-0116 Physical Address SMU Dedman School of Law 3315 Daniel Avenue, Suite 30 Dallas, TX 75205 Clinics W.W. Caruth, Jr. Child Advocacy Clinic Civil/Consumer Clinic COVID-19 Legal Helpline Criminal Clinic Family Immigration Detention Clinic Federal Tax Clinic First Amendment Clinic Judge Elmo B. Hunter Legal Center for Victims of Crimes Against Women Innocence Clinic Patent Law Clinic Small Business Clinic and Trademark Clinic VanSickle Family Law Clinic Resources for the Public For Students Library Business Office Get Help Now News Media Emergency / Safety Admissions Office / FAQs Department Directory Consumer Information (ABA Required Disclosures) Contact Us Maps and Directions Legal Disclosures © SMU Dedman School of Law 3315 Daniel Avenue, Dallas, TX 75205 facebook google twitter linkedin tumblr youtube instagram