Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu The Center for International Education Services Programs Resources News & Events Support CIES Contact Us Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact A Home for Adventurers Explore Our Programs to Support International Students and World Travelers Resources for Faculty, Staff and Students Your guide for travel, employment, emergency services and more Mark Your Calendar Save the date for these upcoming events PreviousNext Home The Center for International Education Services Preparing students to become global citizens The University of Memphis is proud to host students from all over the world, with 72 foreign countries currently represented by over 500 international students in our student body. Our international students excel in their fields of study, contribute to research and innovation, and help make our city a diverse and inclusive community. The Center for International Education Services is the institutional home for the Study Abroad Office, Intensive English for Internationals Office (IEI), and International Student Services (ISS). We are committed to serving the needs of the international community and preparing UofM students to become global citizens. CIES seeks to provide a welcoming environment for international students and scholars at the University of Memphis. International Student Services > Visit ISS Website Study Abroad > Study Abroad Website Intensive English for Internationals > Visit IEI Website Explore + Discover Memphis In a city that has changed the world in more ways than one, we're driven to do the same. And so can you. The University of Memphis has been educating students from all over the world for more than 100 years. UofM researchers and faculty are leaders in over 250 fields of study, which means a wealth of academic choices for you. In the heart of the nation's 20th largest city, learning isn't limited to classrooms or labs. Memphis is a hub of international commerce, culture and creativity. Whatever your passion, here you'll discover endless paths toward pursuing it. Contact Us 110 International Center theworld@memphis.edu 901.678.2814 Contact Us Follow Us Online Facebooktwitter Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 11/18/21 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.