COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW Details: Legal Education Accelerated Degree, Major MajorLegal Education Accelerated Degree All Programs Fairmount College of Liberal Arts and Sciences LEAD 3 + 3 The Legal Education Accelerated Degree (LEAD) program offers students an accelerated path to a law degree. Students in the LEAD program will complete three years at Wichita State and, provided they meet the minimum admission standards, three years at the University of Kansas School of Law. After completing their first year at KU, their credits are transferred back to Wichita State and they receive their bachelor's degree. Learn how LEAD is the right fit for you. Request Info Start Your Application Applied learning at Wichita State At Wichita State, applied learning is everything. In fact, every degree we offer has a guaranteed applied learning or research experience built right into it equipping you with the relevant skills and experience to make you workforce ready before graduation. Learn about our innovative approach Admission to the program For WSU's admission requirements, and to apply, click the link below Admission requirements Curriculum Students in the LEAD program will select one of the following majors for their bachelor's degree: Criminal Justice English History Philosophy Political Science View the curriculum Careers A bachelor's to juris doctorate degree from Wichita State University and the University of Kansas School of Law can open doors to advanced law degrees and careers in many legal-related fields. Explore careers in this field Similar Programs Criminal Justice English History Philosophy Political Science Pre-Law 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©