Texas Tech University Directory Raiderlink A-Z Index Military & Veterans Programs Menu Search TTU Military & Veterans Programs Federal Resources Click on a federal resource to know more. Build Your Career - U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs Resources for veterans, family members, and civilians to obtain career advice and find jobs. Helpful information whether seeking a job at the VA, another federal agency, or the private sector. Learn More>> Center for Women Veterans The Center serves as an advocate for a cultural transformation (both within VA and in the general public) in recognizing the service and contributions of women Veterans and women in the military, and in raising awareness of the responsibility to treat women Veterans with dignity and respect. Learn More>> Children of Fallen Patriots Foundation If you are the child of a service member who has died in services to his or her nation, you may be eligible for a scholarship. Learn More>> Continuing Education Resources for Veterans Additional grants and scholarships available for veterans and dependents. Learn More>> Disabled American Veterans DAV provides free help with earned VA benefits, transportation and advocacy. Learn More>> eBenefits eBenefits is a portal; a central location for Veterans, Service Members, and their families to research, find, access, and, in time, manage their benefits and personal information. Learn More>> Joint Services Transcript You may request copies of your military transcript online. Learn More>> Lone Survivor Foundation The Lone Survivor Foundation (LSF) restores, empowers, and renews hope for our wounded warriors and their families using therapeutic support, health and wellness, inspiration, and nature, while emphasizing camaraderie, understanding, respect, and pride. Learn More>> Make the Connection Make the Connection provides personal video testimonials and resources to help Veterans discover ways to improve their lives. The site also provides informational resources on mental health conditions such as PTSD and depression , and symptoms of problems such as drug and alcohol abuse. Learn More>> Marine Corps Leadership Scholars Program Texas Tech University has been selected as a participating college in the Marine Corps Leadership Scholars Program which helps honorably discharging Marines continue their education. Learn More>> National Archives The National Archives can assist you with your service records. You can order your DD214 and military personnel records via their website. Learn More>> National Resource Directory Connecting Wounded Warriors, Service Members, Veterans, Their Families and Caregivers with Those Who Support Them. Learn More>> Student Veterans of America Coalition of student veterans groups from college campuses across the United States. Learn More>> The American Legion The American Legion is the nation's largest wartime veterans' service organization, committed to mentoring youth and sponsorship of wholesome programs in our communities, advocating patriotism and honor, promoting strong national security, and continued devotion to our fellow service members and veterans. Learn More>> VA "Ask a Question" Site Find the answer to your VA questions or email VA directly from this site. Learn More>> VA Educational Resources & Comparison Chart Link to the Educational Benefits Comparison Chart and other resources. Learn More>> VA Official YouTube Channel The official YouTube channel for the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs. Learn More>> Veterans' Employment & Training Service (VETS) The U.S. Department of Labor provides information for service members, veterans, and employers. Learn More>> Veterans of Foreign Wars: Post 2466 Ancile "Al" White Post The VFW mission is to foster camaraderie among United States veterans of overseas conflicts. Learn More>> Veterans Suicide Prevention Channel The Veterans Suicide Prevention Channel has been created to try to save the lives of America's veterans, and promote good health and understanding to their family members and supporters. Learn More>> Contact TTU Contact Contact TTUContact Contact TTU News News for NewsNews for News Events EventsEvents Texas Tech University 2500 Broadway Lubbock, Texas 79409 806.742.2011 Follow Texas Tech University Like Texas Tech University on FacebookLike Texas Tech University on Facebook Follow Texas Tech University on twitterFollow Texas Tech University on twitter Check in with Texas Tech University on FourSquareCheck in with Texas Tech University on FourSquare Subscribe to Texas Tech University on YouTubeSubscribe to Texas Tech University on YouTube Follow Texas Tech University on FlickrFollow Texas Tech University on Flickr Follow Texas Tech University on InstagramFollow Texas Tech University on Instagram Connect with Texas Tech University on LinkedInConnect with Texas Tech University on LinkedIn Contact Texas Tech UniversityContact Texas Tech University Contact Us Campus Map Jobs @ TTU Emergency Communication Center General Policy Information Public Access to Course Info Energy Management Mental Health Resources Title IX Fraud and Misconduct Hotline Online Institutional Resumes TTU System TTU Health Sciences Center TTUHSC El Paso Angelo State University Midwestern State University Statewide Search State of Texas Texas Homeland Security Texas Veterans Portal Texas CREWS SAO Fraud Reporting Open Records Requests © 2022 Texas Tech UniversityMay 6, 2022 10:13 AM Military & Veterans Programs Events & Calendar Military & Veterans Programs Back Events Military & Veterans Programs Back Upcoming Events & Announcements Green Zone TechVet Boot Camp Camo to Corporate Tournament for Heroes Stole & Recognition Ceremony Coffee & Conversations: Afghanistan Programs & Benefits Military & Veterans Programs Back Getting Started Military & Veterans Programs Back Prior to Discharge Start Here Submit MVP Certification Forms FAQ Hazlewood Act Military & Veterans Programs Back Overview Veteran Legacy Children/Spouses-100% Veterans Previous Recipients Federal VA Benefits Military & Veterans Programs Back Federal Educational Benefits Resources Military & Veterans Programs Back Connections Military & Veterans Programs Back Campus Resources Community Resources State Resources Federal Resources Places of Interest in Lubbock and West Texas Useful Links Military & Veterans National Alumni Network (MVN) TTU Parents Association Division of Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Academic Support Military & Veterans Programs Back Veteran Liaisons Tutoring Guide Mentoring Study Abroad for Students Using Veterans Benefits College Credit for Heroes Financial Information Military & Veterans Programs Back Financial Aid Student Business Services Veterans Benefit Estimator MVP Scholarships About MVP Military & Veterans Programs Back Department Info Military & Veterans Programs Back Welcome Message Professional Staff MVP Program Specialists Ratings, Rankings & Awards Stars & Stripes Study Lounge Gallery Press Releases Contact Us Additional Resources TTU HomeDirectory Raiderlink A-Z Index