Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Health Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Our Services Appointments Health Topics Events Forms and Guidelines Our Organization News See All Services What's Open Now Patient Resources Quarantine and Isolation Support Coping Tools Immunization Compliance Top Services Birth Control Education Individual Counseling Primary Care Register with Disability Services Sexual Assault: Get Support STI Testing Support Groups Travel Medicine Urgent Medical Concerns Workshops and Trainings Cost of Service Overview Make an Appointment Same Day Service Emergency and After-hours Support Alcohol Body Image Concerns Marijuana Disabilities Other Drugs HIV Insurance Men's Health Mental Health and Well-Being Anxiety Depression Stress Nutrition Physical Activity Relationships Overview Academic Relationships Friendships Roommates Sexual and Reproductive Health Sleep Transgender and Gender Expansive Health Violence Prevention Prevention Consent What Is Sexual Assault? Supporting a Survivor What Is Relationship Abuse? Stalking What Is Sexual Harassment? Bystander Intervention-Step UP! Women's Health See All Events Sexual Assault Awareness Month Columbia Health Flu Season Information Virtual Naloxone Training About Columbia Health Who We Are Who We Serve Confidentiality, Patient Rights, & Patient Responsibilities Operating Philosophy Video Library Your Feedback Staff Directory Health Units Alice! Health Promotion Counseling and Psychological Services Disability Services Gay Health Advocacy Project (GHAP) Insurance Office Medical Services Sexual Violence Response Columbia Health You are here: Home Understanding Daily Life Through a Spiritual Lens Events Past Event Understanding Daily Life Through a Spiritual Lens Share Add to Calendar: Calendar / Outlook Google Yahoo October 27, 2021 5:30 PM - 7:00 PM America/New_York Online Sponsored by the SMBI Spiritual Wellness Center Explore various aspects of everyday well-being and how these connect to spirituality. Have you found yourself going through the motions lately? Have you been wondering if there should be something more to your daily life? If you would like to learn tools and techniques to deepen your sense of purpose and meaning, we can help. Through reflection, music, and group exercises, we will explore various aspects of everyday well-being and how these connect to spirituality. We will discuss spiritual well-being through an equity-minded, strengths-based approach, so that people from any background can join and leave feeling more grounded in daily life and more connected to a spiritual purpose. Facilitators: Antonio Hairston, Ryan Kuhlman, & Jaclyn "Jaci" Hawkins This is a 6-week program that meets on Wednesdays from 5:30pm - 7:00pm ET. The expectation is that participants will participate in the entire duration of the series. If you have questions about missing a session, please reach out to Antionio Hariston at [email protected] Registration Link: https://www.eventbrite.com/e/understanding-daily-life-through-a-spiritual-lens-tickets-192759868957 You only need to register for the first session to be registered for the series. Location: Zoom Start Date: Wednesday, October 27, 2021 Session Dates: 10/27/21 11/3/21 11/10/21 11/17/21 12/1/21 12/8/21 Contact: [email protected] ***PLEASE NOTE: Workshops are open to Columbia University, Teachers College, Union Theological Seminary, and Barnard College students, alumni, faculty and staff ONLY. *** Contact Information Antonio Hairston [email protected] Upcoming Events Columbia Health Administration Wallach Hall, Suite 125, Mail Code 4202, 1116 Amsterdam Avenue · New York, NY 10027 Phone 212-854-2284 Contact Us [email protected] Internal Use Only Login to Access Follow Us Facebook Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close