Skip to main content Skip to primary site menu Google Tag Manager Search form Search Explore Brown University Search Global Navigation Learn More About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life Find A to Z Index People Directory Information for Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Top Destinations Global Brown Watson Institute Graduate School Alpert Medical School School of Public Health School of Engineering President's Staff Advisory Council Home About Members Events Faculty in Focus Lunchtime Events Meet & Mingles BEARtalks & Brown Bag Lunches Staff First Reading Program Staff Resources Get Involved Site Navigation Home About Meeting Minutes & Summaries Bylaws Reports Members Subcommittees Previous Members Events Faculty in Focus Lunchtime Events Meet & Mingles BEARtalks & Brown Bag Lunches Staff First Reading Program Staff Resources Get Involved Serving on SAC University Advisory Boards & Committees Volunteer Opportunities Events SAC hosts events regularly for community-building, networking, and volunteer service. Our events are held during lunch, after work on weekdays, and on weekends to accommodate varying schedules, and all staff are invited. We advertise in the monthly SAC Says Newsletter, Today @ Brown, and here on our website. To add the calendar below to your Google Calendar list, click "+GoogleCalendar" in the lower right. Stay tuned! RECENT SAC EVENTS Sip and Mingle with SAC! Brown staff were invited to join SAC and fellow colleagues for an informal gathering to mix and mingle. April 28, 2022, 4-6pm View photos from the event. Saving Aid:The Future of Global Health and Humanitarian Response Featuring Adam C. Levine, MD, MPH Director, Center for Human Rights and Humanitarian Studies Professor of Emergency Medicine and Health Services, Policy & Practice Tuesday, December 7, 2021, Noon Staff Pumpkin Painting Event and Contest Join us for some pumpkin painting and cider. Submit your pumpkin for a chance to win a $50 gift certificate to the Faculty Club! October 28, 2021 12-2pm View photos from the event. Virtual Staff Hangout Because there's never been a more important time to (re)connect. Aug 7 TED Talk: https://brown.zoom.us/j/4057385655 Baby/Kids Clothing and Rummage Sale (supporting Brown Gives) Have baby/kids clothing or gear that your little one has outgrown? Pay it forward and donate your items to the Brown community to be sold at a clothing and gear rummage sale. All proceeds from the rummage sale will go to Brown Gives, supporting United Way of RI. Parent Networking Event All Brown staff are welcome to join this mid-day networking event for expecting, new, seasoned, step, adoptive, and someday parents! Our guest speaker will be Professor Roman Feiman, Assistant Professor of Cognitive, Linguistic & Psychological Sciences and Director of the Brown Language and Thought Lab. Professor Feiman will share information about the lab and the latest research on language acquisition and cognitive development in young children. Events Faculty in Focus Lunchtime Events Meet & Mingles BEARtalks & Brown Bag Lunches Staff First Reading Program President's Staff Advisory Council President's Staff Advisory Council Brown University Providence, RI 02912 Phone: 401-863-1000 Email [email protected] Facebook Facebook Instagram Instagram Brown University Giving to Brown Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA 401-863-1000 Contact Us Maps Directions Career Opportunities Campus Safety Accessibility All Social Media © 2022 Brown University | Back to top