Skip to Main Content Brown University Graduate Programs Search Menu Graduate Programs Biostatistics A.M. Sc.M. school School of Public Health department Biostatistics Inquire All Graduate Programs Navigate This Page Navigate This Page About the Program Admission Information Financial Aid Completion Requirements Alumni Outcomes Leadership Contact and Location The masters' programs in Biostatistics provide advanced training in the theory and application of statistical methods in public health, clinical medicine and the biological sciences. The master’s program provides advanced training in the theory and application of statistical methods in public health, clinical medicine, and the biological sciences. The Master’s degree program is designed to provide advanced training for a heterogeneous audience that includes individuals pursuing careers as professional statisticians or data analysts in industry, government or academia; those contemplating doctoral study in biostatistics; and established researchers seeking advanced training in biostatistics. For Brown undergraduates, we offer a fifth-year Master’s (AM) degree that can be completed in one year after receiving the bachelor’s degree. The AM degree program is also open to Brown Graduate students pursuing a master’s degree in a secondary field through the University’s Open Graduate Education Program (OGE). Additional Resources All students have access to the computing infrastructure at the Center for Statistical Sciences, a high-end, continuously updated computing environment featuring both Unix and PC/MAC networks, with access to all major software for data analysis and numerical computing. CSS also maintains a considerable collection of statistics texts and journals in the Walter Freiberger Biostatistics Library. Admission Information Inquire Entering students are assumed to have the necessary background including three semesters of calculus, one semester of linear algebra and at least one semester of mathematical probability using calculus prior to attending Brown. Students who have not taken the probability course will be strongly urged to take this in the summer before matriculation. Applicants to this School of Public Health program should apply through SOPHAS, a centralized application service for accredited schools and programs in public health. The application opens in mid-August each year. The Department of Biostatistics will waive the requirement of the GRE results for the 2021-2022 application cycle. Applicants who submit results will not be penalized, nor will applicants who do not submit results. Brown University School of Public Health GRE reporting code: 7765. Admission Requirements GRE Subject: Not required GRE General: Not required Official Transcripts: Required Letters of Recommendations: (3) Required Personal Statement: Required Resume/CV: Required Additional Materials: Application Fee Additional Requirements: International Applicants Language Proficiency (TOEFL or IELTS if applicable) Transcript Evaluation (if applicable) Dates/Deadlines Admission Deadline February 1, 2022 Financial Aid Financial aid for master’s students varies, though most students are self-supported through a combination of scholarships, loans, outside funding, and/or assistantships. You can find master’s funding opportunities on the School of Public Health website. Completion Requirements A.M. (5th Year) Ten courses for the Masters of Arts (AM) degree in Biostatistics. It is required that Fifth-Year Master’s students take two courses counting toward the Master’s degree prior to matriculating into the Master’s program. Students must apply for the Fifth-Year Master’s program through SOPHAS Express for applicants to the Biostatistics program before they complete their undergraduate studies. Sc.M. Ten courses for the The Masters of Science (ScM) plus an additional thesis/project course. Up to one course from another institution can be transferred. Alumni Careers Learn More Leadership Department Director Joseph Hogan jwh@brown.edu Graduate Program Director Stavroula Chrysanthopoulou stavroula_chrysanthopoulou@brown.edu Contact and Location Department of Biostatistics Mailing Address Brown University Box G-S121-7 Denise_Arver@brown.edu 401-863-9381 Visit the Department of Biostatistics Resources Program Faculty Program Handbook Graduate School Handbook Public Health Career Outcomes Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University Brown University For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home Graduate School School of Engineering School of Professional Studies School of Public Health Warren Alpert Medical School This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Biostatistics Open details for Biostatistics Bookmark this Page