Skip to main content Clemson University Degrees Home Degree Programs MENU Wildlife and Fisheries Biology (B.S.) LEARN MORE ABOUT Conservation and management are two very important words when it comes to the wildlife and fish that inhabit this world. Wildlife populations that struggle with declining populations need professionals who oversee plans to protect them as a species, while populations with the opposite problem of overwhelming numbers are equally reliant on professionals to intervene in managing their numbers. Each faces health, environmental and ecology risks. As a wildlife and fisheries biology major, you'll learn about practices and policies that affect the animals of this world. With this major, a graduate degree is extremely important for pursuing jobs with federal and state agencies as well as with private industry. To help our students get their graduate degrees sooner, Clemson offers qualified students the opportunity to begin graduate-level work in their senior year. FAST FACTS Clemson students recently placed second at the Southeastern Wildlife Conclave sponsored by The Wildlife Society. Qualified students have an option to pursue our five-year bachelor's/master's degree program. Your classroom is the forestland and freshwater that surround Clemson. Within walking distance of campus are 17,500 acres of Experimental Forest dedicated to education, research and recreation. Our students are encouraged to pursue graduate studies in order to be competitive for careers with both public and private industry. Our graduates may find themselves in hip-waders in a stream collecting samples for research or in a business suit lobbying for policy protecting our wildlife. WHAT YOU'LL STUDY Clemson is home to more than 17,500 acres of forestland and 56,000 acres of freshwater - and this is where our students study! Freshmen complete entry-level course work in biology, chemistry and mathematics, and then the doors to the outside world fling wide open. Course work quickly migrates to topics such as wildlife biology, wildlife damage management, herpetology, conservation biology and freshwater ecology. Throughout your classes, you'll learn about the careful balance of protecting our wildlife and ecosystems while also understanding human demands on our environment. In this program, you'll be given the flexibility to choose from approved classes to create a curriculum that fits with your specific career goals. You may choose to take classes that explore the nutritional needs of wildlife, or you may be more interested in exploring the policies and laws that protect the natural environment. Combined Bachelor of Science/Master of Science Plan Get a jump-start on your graduate degree with our five-year bachelor's/master's degree program. You can take up to 12 hours of graduate credit that counts toward both your Bachelor of Science and Master of Science in wildlife and fisheries biology. Curriculum Wildlife and Fisheries Biology, B.S. Popular Minors Animal Science Biological Sciences Forest Resource Management Park and Protected Area Management Plant and Environmental Sciences Political Science Similar Majors Biosystems Engineering (B.S.) Environmental and Natural Resources (B.S.) Environmental Engineering (B.S.) Forest Resource Management (B.S.) Parks, Recreation and Tourism Management (B.S.) EXPERIENCES BEYOND THE CLASSROOM Whether for academics or recreation, there are opportunities for you here in Clemson's backyard. Conclave Wildlife conclaves provide students a chance to compete for their schools in an academic quiz bowl focused on wildlife management and conservation. Events also include shooting sports, archery, and tree and plant identification. Join Join Clemson's relatively new shotgun club team. In 2011 they won first place in the sporting clays event at the Association of College Unions International National Collegiate Shotgun Championships. RESEARCH Students have a number of opportunities to get engaged in Creative Inquiry, our undergraduate research program. An ongoing project at Clemson has been looking at methods for managing urban wildlife populations.Learn More » CONNECT WITH OTHER STUDENTS The Wildlife Society Clemson Fisheries Society AFTER GRADUATION Your college decision isn't really about the next four years. We get it. It's about what doors are opened by your degree and whether those opportunities are what you had envisioned for yourself. Here's a snapshot of what life after graduation looks like for some of our most recent students. WHERE OUR RECENT GRADUATES HAVE GONE KEY 41-100% 21-40% 11-20% 0-10% RECENT EMPLOYERS Biological Science Technician USDA Wildlife Services Environmental Health Manager South Carolina Department of Health and Environmental Control Wildlife Manager The Fork Farm & Stables Field Technician West Virginia University Field Biologist Slight Environmental Consulting RECENT POSTGRADUATE STUDIES M.S. Fish and Wildlife Conservation Virginia Tech M.S. Marine Biology Nova Southeastern University M.S. Plant and Environmental Sciences Clemson University M.S. Environmental Sciences University of North Carolina Wilmington COMMON CAREER AREAS Fish and Wildlife Management Scientist Biologist Technician Facilities Management Law Enforcement Parks, Recreation and Tourism Recreation Specialist Environmental Educator Park Administrator, Naturalist or Superintendent Management and Conservation Consulting Research and Conservation Biologist Land Use Planning and Analytics Real Estate Education Policy and Planning Administration Planning and Compliance Policy and Law Lobbyist Economist Consulting Science and Biotechnology Research and Development Regulatory and Toxicology Field, Lab or Research Technician Wildlife Communication and Education Technical Writing Public Relations and Journalism Tourism Political Action and Lobbying Teaching (Traditional and Nontraditional) Used with permission from the University of Tennessee. FIND OUT MORE Have more questions or want more information? Fill out the form below, which goes directly to the following department contact. If you’d also like to receive general University information from Clemson’s admissions office, please follow the link to the right and sign up to join our mailing list. Madison Cutts Coordinator of Student Recruitment mcutts@clemson.edu Department Website College Website Loading... Department Website College Website Home Admissions Campus Life Academics Visit Outreach Research About Apply To Clemson Undergraduate Graduate Professional Online Education Employment Opportunities Policy/Terms of Use Text Version Web Accessibility Ethics/Safety Line Privacy Policy Site Information Copyright © 2015 Clemson University Clemson, South Carolina 29634 864-656-3311 Contact Clemson Stories for the Clemson Family Clemson University on Facebook Clemson University on Twitter Clemson University on Google+ Clemson University on LinkedIn Clemson University on YouTube Clemson University on Flickr Clemson University on Instagram Search Clemson University degrees Clemson Degree Programs Search Alphabetical List Schedule a Visit Campus Life Admissions Costs & Financial Aid Similar Majors To Wildlife and Fisheries Biology (B.S.) Biosystems Engineering (B.S.) Environmental and Natural Resources (B.S.) Environmental Engineering (B.S.) Forest Resource Management (B.S.) Parks, Recreation and Tourism Management (B.S.)