Skip to main content Go to site search Go to primary navigation Go to resources navigation Penn COVID-19 Response » Penn Home Toggle Site Navigation Toggle Site Search Academics More Academics Undergraduate Graduate Schools Global Initiatives Interdisciplinary Online Learning Off-campus Learning Libraries Admissions & Aid Athletics Research & Innovation More Research & Innovation Research Enterprise Research News Life at Penn More Life at Penn Arts & Culture Community Involvement More Community Involvement Penn & Philadelphia Diversity Groups & Organizations Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Safety & Security More Safety & Security Emergency Contacts Emergency Preparedness Spirituality & Religion About More About Introduction to Penn History Facts News, Media, & Communication Services Sustainability FAQ Penn’s Interim President, Wendell Pritchett Trustees & Administration Policies Toggle Site Search Resources Current Students Faculty & Staff Parents Alumni Visitors A-Z Directory Webmail Services Give to Penn Search Search Close Breadcrumb Home / About / News, Media, & Communication Services News, Media, & Communication Services Look here for news and communications services offered by the University; includes news offices, publications, telephone, web and video services, and more. News and Media Almanac The Almanac is the weekly publication of record and opinion for faculty and staff, with news and services that extend its readership to students, alumni, and neighbors. The Almanac also publishes the AT PENN calendars. The Daily Pennsylvanian The Daily Pennsylvanian is Penn’s independent student news organization. The DP covers news, sports, and entertainment from the University and around the Philadelphia metro area. Penn Today If there is news at Penn, readers will find it on Penn Today. The daily online publication includes faculty, staff, and student profiles, research updates, and the latest happenings on campus. The Pennsylvania Gazette Penn’s alumni magazine presents thought-provoking articles and information about the University, along with alumni notes and commentary. University Communications The Office of University Communications is Penn’s central office for University-wide news publications, press releases, media relations, and public affairs. Penn Today Penn Today Newsletters Style Guide / Logos & Branding Visit Penn Today Penn Video Network PVN is the University’s cable television and video network, with movie channels featuring curriculum support films as well as a Penn video bulletin board and Penn events channel. Omnia An online publication highlighting research and scholarship from the School of Arts & Sciences. WQHS The student-run radio station, broadcast exclusively online. WXPN 88.5 FM Listener-supported public radio from the University of Pennsylvania. News and Communications Websites School of Arts & Sciences The Wharton School Annenberg School for Communication School of Dental Medicine Stuart Weitzman School of Design Graduate School of Education School of Engineering & Applied Science Carey Law School Perelman School of Medicine School of Nursing School of Social Policy & Practice School of Veterinary Medicine University of Pennsylvania Health System Penn Museum University Communications (Penn Today) Communication Services Mail Services and Express Shipping Penn Mail Services handles all intramural mail and outgoing correspondence, including projects that require bulk mail and lettershop services. Print and Interactive Communications An interactive website that offers comprehensive resources to meet any communications need, including design; production and advertising services in print, electronic and broadcast formats; an online printing center and more. Electronic Communications Services Services from Penn’s Information Systems and Computing including networking/connectivity, phone, tv, video, email and calendaring as well as web hosting, storage, and platforms. University Records Center Information about retrieval procedures and available resources at the storage facility for University and Health System records. Stay Connected Issues of human rights and justice are integral to programming at @perryworldhouse, Penn’s hub for global engagement—where, earlier this year, Perry World House Executive Director LaShawn Jefferson and Rangita de Silva de Alwis, Senior Adjunct Professor of Global Leadership and Associate Dean of International Affairs at Penn Carey Law (pictured), spoke during a hybrid event, “Global Justice – The Struggle for Women’s Human Rights.” @uofpenn Participants in a course on Chinese diasporas taught by Ph.D. candidate Sarah Yu of @PennSAS spent a day as tour guides in Philadelphia’s lively Chinatown. The exercise honed their public speaking skills while they learned about Chinese migration. @penn As a response to anti-Black violence, Lucas Monroe, a junior in the School of Arts & Sciences from Abington, Pennsylvania, took on a leadership role in social justice work. @uofpenn Follow us on social media Instagram Facebook Twitter Flickr YouTube LinkedIn Philadelphia, PA 19104 Telephone: (215) 898-5000 Contact Us Maps Parking Navigate Alumni Athletics Diversity Health Care Libraries Online Learning Penn Global Penn's Heritage As America’s first university, Penn has a history that dates back to 1740 and shares many ties with the colonial city of Philadelphia and the birth of our nation. Our History Disclaimer Emergency Services Nondiscrimination Privacy Policy Report Accessibility Issues and Get Help Report Copyright Infringement Back To Top