Skip to main content Skip to site menu Skip to Brown menu Skip to site search Information For: Current Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Brown University Enter search keyword About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life A to Z Index People Directory Brown University Global Health Initiative Global Health Initiative What is Global Health? The Consortium of Universities for Global Health (CUGH) defines global health as, "an area for study, research, and practice that places a priority on improving health and achieving equity in health for all people worldwide."1 Global health emphasizes trans-national health issues, determinants, and solutions; involves many disciplines within and beyond the health sciences and promotes interdisciplinary collaboration; is a synthesis of population-based prevention with individual-level clinical care. The interests of global health span the range from vaccine development and delivery, to economic disparity and extreme poverty, to cultural and psychosocial factors that influence etiology, prevention, surveillance and treatment of disease, etc. 1. Koplan JP, Bond TC, Merson MH, et al. (June 2009). "Towards a common definition of global health." Lancet. 373 (9679): 1993-5. PMID 19493564. DOI:10.1016/S0140-6736(09)60332-9. Mission Statement The Global Health Initiative is a multidisciplinary university-wide effort to reduce health inequalities among underserved populations locally and worldwide through education, research, service and development of partnerships. Global Health in Education, Research and Service The GHI is distinguished by an integrative, overarching approach to the fundamentally interrelated problems of health and development. One key advantage of the GHI is its ability to bring together the social, cultural, and human dimensions of global health problems and their biomedical and technological elements under a single umbrella. Building upon Brown's expertise in both population analysis and infectious disease intervention, the Initiative offers high impact education, research, and service opportunities for students and faculty, and addresses issues of capacity, infrastructure, environment, and health care delivery to reduce the burden of disease in impoverished communities. COVID-19 Information, Resources and Data A Brief History GHI Executive Committee Education International Collaborations Contact Global Health Scholarship GHI Programs International Emory Global Health Case Competition Pre-Travel Orientation Global Health Lecture Series Upcoming Events News Global Health Research Day Newsletter Print this Page Share this Page Global Health Initiative Brown University Box G-A2 Arnold Lab 91 Waterman Street Room 205 Providence, RI 02912 Phone 401-863-1499 Fax 401-863-1848 [email protected] Calendar There are no upcoming events. Brown University Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-1000 Maps & Directions / Contact Us / Accessibility © 2022 Brown University Connect: [email protected] Facebook Twitter YouTube iTunes U LinkedIn SnapChat Resources A to Z Index Career Opportunities Make a Gift People Directory @ Brown BioMed Alpert Medical School Public Health Program Population Studies and Training Center (PSTC) Watson Institute for International Studies Partners Brown Residency International/Global Health Training (BRIGHT) Pathway Brown University AIDS Program (BRUNAP) Brown-Kenya Moi Exchange Program