2021-2022 Campus Events Policy Skip to content Skip to primary navigation Skip to search box Skip to admissions quick links Skip to secondary navigation Skip to breadcrumb TC Menu Search for people, news & websites Go Resource Links Prospective Students Current Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Quick Links Columbia Library myTC Directory Apply Now Request Info Search Bar Primary Navigation About Academics Admission & Aid Faculty & Research News Give to TC TC Together - Stronger Than Ever Teachers College Preparedness Secondary Navigation Main TC News & Announcements Campus Life During COVID-19 Campus Life During COVID-19 COVID-19 Vaccine Requirements and Information COVID-19 Random Testing Program COVID-19 Reporting Dashboard Remote Access to Classes Campus Access Requirements Information on Health and Safety Measures Research Compliance and Safety 2021-2022 Campus Events Policy Visitor Guidelines Field Experiences Gottesman Libraries Guidance References FAQ Travel Guidance FAQ Spring Instruction Contacts CU COVID-19 Site TC Preparedness Campus Life During COVID-19 2021-2022 Campus Events Policy What You Need to Know Toggle Tertiary Menu Campus Life During COVID-19 COVID-19 Vaccine Requirements and Information COVID-19 Random Testing Program COVID-19 Reporting Dashboard Remote Access to Classes Campus Access Requirements Information on Health and Safety Measures Research Compliance and Safety 2021-2022 Campus Events Policy Visitor Guidelines Field Experiences Gottesman Libraries Guidance References FAQ 2021-2022 Campus Events Policy Purpose of Policy Rationale In Person Internal Meetings & Events In Person External Meetings & Events Catering Events Not Held on TC/CU Campus Note on Capacities Summer 2022 Event Policy Purpose of Policy The purpose of this policy is to outline the updated parameters for hosting both internal and external meetings, events & visits on campus for Spring 2022. This policy is subject to change if/when circumstances related to COVID including updates in guidance from federal, New York State and City occur. Rationale This policy has been developed with the understanding that internal events are the priority for the Spring semester. Students should be able to enjoy a robust community experience now that campus has re-opened. However, in recognition of the recent Omicron surge and its lingering effects, and following the successful beginning of the Fall semester, both internal and external events are expected to begin on February 14, 2022 with the exception of activities for new students. In Person Internal Meetings & Events Internal meetings & events are defined as those whose audience is comprised of members of the TC & CU community and carry a valid TC/CU ID card excluding TC alumni. External speakers (up to 4) are permitted at internal events provided they follow all campus health and safety guidelines including providing proof of vaccination including a booster (when applicable). Guests attending or working events at Teachers College must wear an N95, KN95, KN94 or surgical masks; cloth masks will not be permitted at TC events. Meetings & events occurring in function spaces (see table below) will follow a 50-75% capacity maximum based on the room type. Rooms with auditorium seating (Cowin, Milbank, ZB408, TH136, MY263) will all be at a 50% capacity*. The event capacity restriction will require pre-registration for guests and staff on hand to check in guests so as not to exceed the capacity. The final attendance list must be retained by the planner for 60 days after the event. There is no limit on the number of internal events on campus per day. In Person External Meetings & Events External meetings & events are defined as gatherings in which some guests, speakers, or visitors are not TC/CU ID holders. There is a limit of up to 8 external meetings & events permitted on campus daily. Those who wish to host external meetings and events will submit a request that will be approved by the COVID Events Working Group on a weekly basis. External meetings & events can take place on campus between the hours of 8:00 a.m.-10:00 p.m. No more than 50 external guests can attend these gatherings. All guests will be required to provide proof of vaccination & complete the visitor’s daily health screening. The event/meeting planner or host is expected to request and receive proof of vaccination, including a booster (when applicable), in advance of the event. Guests attending or working events at Teachers College must wear an N95, KN95, KN94 or surgical masks; cloth masks will not be permitted at TC events. All external guests must be pre-registered to attend. Staff must be on hand to check in each pre-registered guest. The final attendance list must be retained by the planner for 60 days after the event. All guests must follow the College policies and procedures. Catering As the College strives to strike a balance between being gracious and hospitable while still respecting differing comfort levels among event guests, below are guidelines and recommendations that will be useful to TC’s event planners. Events and Meetings before February 14, 2022: Only To Go catering is available Events and Meetings on and after February 14, 2022 TC strongly recommends that event planners order individually wrapped menu items. AVI has greatly expanded its wrapped and boxed offerings and will work with clients to create an exciting menu that also meets health & safety considerations. Please contact Jay Lebet, AVI Catering Director as you begin to develop your catering requirements. Jay can be reached at jpl2200@tc.columbia.edu. For clients who prefer to order a non-boxed buffet, it's the College’s great preference that servers are hired to distribute food. If that is not possible, below are guidelines for guests to follow: Guests must wear masks while at a buffet. Guests will be asked to distance while serving themselves; the rule of thumb is 2 guests per 6 foot table at any one time. Guests are asked to wear a mask when not actively eating or drinking. Clients will be able to order gloves and sanitizer for buffets if desired. Conferences and other all day events and meetings are encouraged to not have “working” meals”. Ideally, guests should be able to eat in a different space (i.e. the cafeteria, the courtyard etc.) to maximize distancing while guests have their masks off while eating. Events Not Held on TC/CU Campus Attendees of events not held on campus are subject to the same requirements of events on campus. Guests will be required to show a TC/CU ID card or proof of vaccination. The planner should follow the room capacity set by the owner of the venue. Note on Capacities The capacity limit exists for events and not classrooms as it is expected that attendees could remain in an event for a longer period of time than a typical class. Auditorium-Style Room Capacity Space Pre-COVID Capacity 50% Capacity Limit Cowin Auditorium 587 293 Milbank Chapel 180 90 MY263 100 50 RUS306 35 26 TH136 106 53 ZB408 213 106 Function Space Room Capacity Space Pre-COVID Capacity 75% Capacity Limit Cafeteria (available outside of business hours) 264 198 Everett 100 75 GDH177 20 15 GDH179 120 90 Macy Art Gallery (reception style) 69 51 Smith Learning Theater (config #1: seated rounds) 212 159 Smith Learning Theater (config #2: standing reception) 322 241 Smith Learning Theater (config #3: seminar style) 172 129 Smith Learning Theater (config #4: theater style) 292 219 ZB109 30 22 The safety of the entire TC community continues to be our top priority, and the policies and procedures detailed on this website are a critical part of TC’s plan for protecting our community against the spread of COVID-19. All individuals are expected to comply with any policies that apply to them. Individuals who do not comply may be subject to disciplinary action, including being restricted from campus. We thank you for your cooperation and compliance as we work to transition back to campus as a community. Summer 2022 Event Policy Purpose of Policy The purpose of this policy is to set forth the updated parameters for hosting both internal and external meetings, events & visits on campus for Summer 2022. This policy is subject to change if/when circumstances related to COVID including updates in guidance from federal, New York State and City occur. Easing of Restrictions TC is easing event restrictions as of Tuesday, May 10, 2022 so that members of the community can plan events with less limitations. As of Tuesday, May 10, 2022, the following restrictions will be lifted: Capacity limits on event spaces have been removed External guest capacity of 50 has been removed* Masks are optional for events below 200 guests. If an event has more than 200 guests, masks are required. However, the requirements below will be maintained for events this Summer: All external guests will be required to show proof of vaccination. For events with more than 200 guests, the event planner will be asked to collect the proof of vaccination in advance and share the list of attendees with Public Safety. All external guests will be required to complete the visitor Daily Health Screen and show at the Public Safety desk on arrival. Registration and check in is required at events where there are external guests All guests must follow the College policies and procedures. Ensure a meal plan that considers overall health and safety and does not require attendance at an event with food service i.e. a working lunch. Catering Guidance As the College strives to strike a balance between being gracious and hospitable while still respecting differing comfort levels among event guests, below are guidelines and recommendations that will be useful to TC’s event planners. TC strongly recommends that event planners order individually wrapped menu items. AVI has greatly expanded its wrapped and boxed offerings and will work with clients to create an exciting menu that also meets health & safety considerations. Please contact Jay Lebet, AVI Catering Director as you begin to develop your catering requirements. Jay can be reached at jpl2200@tc.columbia.edu. For clients who prefer to order a non-boxed buffet, it's the College’s great preference that servers are hired to distribute food. If that is not possible, below are guidelines for guests to follow: Guests must wear masks while at a buffet. Guests will be asked to distance while serving themselves; the rule of thumb is 2 guests per 6 foot table at any one time. Guests are asked to wear a mask when not actively eating or drinking. Clients will be able to order gloves and sanitizer for buffets if desired. Conferences and other all day events and meetings are encouraged to not have “working” meals”. Ideally, guests should be able to eat in a different space (i.e. the cafeteria, the courtyard etc.) to maximize distancing while guests have their masks off while eating. *External guests are individuals who are not TC/CU ID card holders Contact Us Teachers College Preparedness * Phone: (212) 678-3111 * Email: returntocampus@tc.columbia.edu Contact Us Teachers College, Columbia University 525 West 120th Street New York, NY 10027 Tel: +1 (212) 678-3000 Map & Directions Directory Ask a Question Resources Admission & Aid Student Life Courses Academic Calendar Office of the Registrar Office of Teacher Education TC NEXT Employment Legal Consumer Information / Student Right to Know Legal Notices Policy Library Non-Discrimination Title IX Compliance Ethics Reporting Public Safety GDPR Notice Make a Gift to TC Diversity Work at TC TC Facebook TC Twitter TC Instagram TC Youtube TC LinkedIn © 2022, Teachers College, Columbia University, New York, NY 10027. Back to skip to quick links