Skip to site alert. Skip to content Columbia School of Nursing Students Alumni Faculty Contact Us Search Make a Gift About Us About Us Message From the Dean Leadership Faculty Our Culture News Events Facts and Figures Accreditation Make a Gift Contact Us Our Culture Diversity and Cultural Affairs Civility Statement Social Justice and Health Equity and Anti-Racism Commitment Sustainability Our History Jonas Partnership Join Our Team Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Learn about our commitment to social justice and health equality and anti-racism. View Our Progress Academics Academics A Columbia Nursing Education Admissions at a Glance Academic Programs Courses Financial Aid Continuing Nursing Education Helene Fuld Health Trust Simulation Center Academic Programs Doctor of Nursing Practice Doctor of Nursing Practice in Nurse Anesthesia Doctor of Philosophy Masters Direct Entry Program For Non-Nurses Masters in Advanced Clinical Management and Leadership Online Prerequisites for Entry to Nursing Transgender Non-Binary (Trans NB) Health Care for Advance Practice Nurses and PAs Palliative Care Throughout the Lifespan for Advanced Practice Registered Nurses (APRNs) Admissions at a Glance Learn more about Admissions at Columbia Nursing, including important dates and deadlines, and how to apply to all of our programs. Learn More About Admissions Research Research Research Faculty and Postdoctoral Fellows Research Areas of Focus Research Centers and Programs Training Programs Research Resources Research Centers and Programs Center for Health Policy Center for Improving Palliative Care for Vulnerable Adults with MCC Precision in Symptom Self-Management Center Center for Healthcare Delivery Research and Innovations Center for Research on People of Color Center for Sexual and Gender Minority Health Research Linking to Improve Nursing Knowledge Research Areas of Focus Explore the research areas of focus conducted by our faculty, postdocs, and students. View Our Focus Areas Patient Care Global Health Global Health Global Opportunities for Students Global Research International Visitors WHO Collaborating Center Contact Global Opportunities for Students Global opportunities for clinical practicum and research may be available for MDE and doctoral students at Columbia Nursing. Get More Information MDE/DNP Student Profile: Kelsey Baffour-Addo Masters Direct Entry / Doctor of Nursing Practice Program ’22 May 9, 2022 Share this page Share on Facebook Tweet Share on Linkedin Share by email I am passionate about health education and equity. I think investing in our health and well-being is one of the most important things we can do. Please tell us a bit about yourself; where are you from, and what do you like to do in your spare time? I am from Long Island, N.Y. I grew up dancing and I was always involved in performing arts activities. I still love it! I also enjoy taking care of my physical and mental health through fitness, time with my loved ones, and practicing gratitude.  Why did you decide to pursue nursing, and why did you choose Columbia? I have a background in public health, but I always knew I wanted a clinical foundation as well. I decided on nursing because similar to public health, there are various ways to work toward the common goal of improving health outcomes, including research and policy. I also found that there is a great deal of overlap in the core values of public health and nursing. I chose Columbia because I recognized the dedication to prepare students for both the current and emerging roles that nurses will have in health care. Columbia was also the only school that provided the seamless transition into the DNP program.  What are you passionate about, and how has being a student at Columbia Nursing allowed you to follow that passion? I am passionate about health education and equity. I think investing in our health and well-being is one of the most important things we can do. However, a lack of information and resources are often common barriers. Columbia always highlights patient education and a patient-centered model of care. We learn to empower our patients and communities with education while prioritizing their unique physical, mental, and socioeconomic needs. Do you have a favorite memory of your time at Columbia Nursing? Some of my favorite memories are the moments I shared with the friends I have made here. As demanding as the program can be, it’s such a wonderful feeling when everyone can check another milestone off the list together and celebrate it! I also enjoyed speaking to incoming MDE students as a student ambassador. It made me realize how far I have come! How has the pandemic affected your experience as a nursing student, and your feelings about being a nurse? Entering the program during the pandemic was intimidating. There was constant uncertainty about COVID-19, the new journey ahead, and how the structure of the program would be affected. I learned more about what being on the front line really means and the flexibility that is required of nurses. I also learned about the importance of self-care, self-advocacy, and mental health as a health care professional.  What are your next steps after graduation? After graduation, I plan on staying very close since I will be entering the DNP-FNP program. I also hope to gain experience as a nurse and to give back to the MDE program in any way I can. Is there anything else you’d like to add? I would like to add how appreciative I am of the Pathways to Leadership and Advancement in Nursing (PLAN) program. As a minority at the school of nursing, it really made a difference to have a space to connect with other minority students. It gave me a deeper sense of belonging. Thank you to everyone who made PLAN happen!  Meet More 2022 Star Graduates Columbia University Irving Medical Center NewYork-Presbyterian ColumbiaDoctors About Us Academics Research Patient Care Global Health Contact Us Students Alumni Intranet Careers Columbia University School of Nursing 560 West 168th Street New York, NY 10032 United States Follow Us Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube LinkedIn Back to top