Texas Tech University Directory Raiderlink A-Z Index School of Veterinary Medicine Menu Search TTU School of Veterinary Medicine SVM Scholarships SVM Scholarships In order to be considered for a SVM internal scholarship, students must submit an application through survey monkey. The Class of 2025 deadline date is June 6th and the Class of 2026 deadline date is June 20th. If you have any questions, please email svm.scholarships@ttu.edu Internal Scholarships Bickerstaff Scholarship Endowment Awarded to assist students attending the Texas Tech School of Veterinary Medicine in Amarillo, limited to Texas residents, and with preference given to students from Fisher, Nolan, and Taylor counties in Texas. Award based on available funds. Brock Family Scholarship Awarded to a School of Veterinary Medicine student that has leadership qualities, financial need, and academic excellence. The applicant must submit a short essay highlighting their rural background, leadership activities, and a need for the scholarship (500 words or less). Preference is for a student from a rural area (population under 50,000) who has a desire to remain in a rural area in mixed animal practice after graduation. Award is $10,000 to a single first year individual, and renewable at $5,000 for years 2, 3, and 4; if the student remains on good academic standing. Considerations for future incoming first years will be made in 2022. Calder Foundation Endowed Scholarship Awarded to students enrolled in the School of Veterinary Medicine who demonstrate financial need. Award based on available funds. Harrington Endowed Scholarship Fund for Texas Tech School of Veterinary Medicine Amarillo Area Foundation Awards preference to students having original permanent addresses or connection to the top 26 counties of the Texas Panhandle. Awards are then based on relative geography, financial need, and merit. Multiple awards funded at $1,000 to $2,500 each. John and Maggie Windham School of Veterinary Medicine Scholarship Endowment Awarded to students enrolled in the TTU SVM who have graduated from a rural high school, with preference to candidates with a background in farming or ranching. Lipham School of Veterinary Medicine Endowed Scholarship Awarded to students enrolled in the School of Veterinary Medicine. Students must demonstrate academic excellence and it is preferred that recipients maintain a GPA of 3.5 or above. Eligibility has been extended to TTU SVM 1st-year students in 2021 only; in 2022 and beyond, students must be 2nd, 3rd, or 4th year students. Multiple awards based on available funds. School of Veterinary Medicine General Scholarship Fund Awarded to students based on financial need and/or merit. Multiple awards funded at $1,000 to $5,000 each, pending available funds. South Plains Veterinary Medical Association Veterinary Endowed Scholarship Awarded to a student enrolled in the TTU SVM with first preference for students from the 13-county area of Texas: Lubbock, Hockley, Hale, Lynn, Terry, Lamb, Floyd, Crosby, Garza, Bailey, Cochran, Yoakum, or Dawson. Second preference goes to students from Texas Panhandle or South Plains region. Award based on available funds. The Dalton William Horn School of Veterinary Medicine Memorial Scholarship In honor of Dalton W. Horn, who was part of the inaugural class at the SVM, but tragically lost his life in a car accident. This scholarship was established so that future generations of students have the opportunity to know Dalton. Awarded to students based on financial need and/or merit. Award based on available funds. The Laszlo and Ignacia Hunyadi Memorial Scholarship Fund Awarded annually to a TTU SVM student in his/her first year; renewable in the student's second, third, and fourth years as long as the recipient continues to show interest in practicing large animal medicine and maintains a minimum 3.0 GPA. First preference will be for a student from the Navajo Nation in NM. Second preference will be for a student from El Paso County with an interest in practicing large animal medicine in or near El Paso, Texas. Third preference will be for a student from New Mexico that demonstrates financial need and intends to practice large animal medicine in NM. If no applicants meet these criteria, the scholarship would be awarded to the best candidate demonstrating financial need and who intends to track either equine or livestock medicine as a SVM student and practice in a rural community upon graduation. $11,000 per year for a student, with funds renewable in years 2, 3, and 4 if scholarship recipient continues to track large animal medicine and maintains minimum 3.0 GPA. The United Family School of Veterinary Medicine Scholarship Endowment Awarded to students enrolled at the TTU SVM based on financial need and merit. Multiple awards based on available funds. Tom Portillo DVM American Association of Bovine Practitioners Scholarship Awarded to a student enrolled at the TTU SVM following a food animal production medicine track and based on financial need. Award based on available funds. External Scholarships Organization Description Deadline Aurora Pharmaceutical – Texas Tech Inaugural Class Scholarship Application There is a total of $15,000 to be awarded. Four students will receive $2,500 scholarships and one student will receive a $5,000 scholarship. Deadline Date: Friday January 14th, 2022 A Pup Above Create and submit a 300-word essay about “Health Benefits of Dogs as Companions During the Pandemic”. Deadline Date: July 15, 2022 Bumblebee Linens Scholarship Scholarship provides a one-time reward of $500 to pay for tuition, books, computers, room, and board, or any education-related expense Deadline Date: August 22, 2022 Dallas Jewish Community Foundation This provides a variety of scholarships to students regardless of age or faith. Visit website for more information. Deadline Date: February 10, 2022 Hamel Family Scholarship For Further Education This awards one or more USHJA members funds to be used for college, graduate, trade or professional school, totaling $25,000 each year. Deadline Date: May 15, 2022 The Paul & Daisy Soros Fellowships for New Americans Each Fellowship supports one to two years of graduate study in any field and in any advanced degree-granting program in the United States. Each award is for up to a total of $90,000. Deadline Date: Varies Wilson-Hooper Veterinary Medicine Assistance Program 2022-2023 Provides financial assistance to eligible American Indian and Alaska Native students pursuing a degree in veterinary medicine (DVM) or veterinary technology (Associate of Applied Science) full-time at an accredited institution. Deadline Date: June 1, 2022 2022 Zoetis Foundation/AAVMC Veterinary Student Scholarship Will provide scholarships to second- and third-year veterinary students in the United States and Caribbean as part of the Zoetis Foundation's commitment to support those who care for animals. Deadline Date: December 2, 2022 Scholarships for American Association of Equine Practitioners (AAEP) members For students with an equine interest. School of Veterinary Medicine Like School of Veterinary Medicine on FacebookLike School of Veterinary Medicine on Facebook Follow School of Veterinary Medicine on twitterFollow School of Veterinary Medicine on twitter Subscribe to School of Veterinary Medicine on YouTubeSubscribe to School of Veterinary Medicine on YouTube Follow School of Veterinary Medicine on InstagramFollow School of Veterinary Medicine on Instagram Address 7671 Evans Drive, Amarillo, Texas 79106 Phone 806.742.3200 Email SVM@ttu.edu Texas Tech University 2500 Broadway Lubbock, Texas 79409 806.742.2011 Follow Texas Tech University Like Texas Tech University on FacebookLike Texas Tech University on Facebook Follow Texas Tech University on twitterFollow Texas Tech University on twitter Check in with Texas Tech University on FourSquareCheck in with Texas Tech University on FourSquare Subscribe to Texas Tech University on YouTubeSubscribe to Texas Tech University on YouTube Follow Texas Tech University on FlickrFollow Texas Tech University on Flickr Follow Texas Tech University on InstagramFollow Texas Tech University on Instagram Connect with Texas Tech University on LinkedInConnect with Texas Tech University on LinkedIn Contact Texas Tech UniversityContact Texas Tech University Contact Us Campus Map Jobs @ TTU Emergency Communication Center General Policy Information Public Access to Course Info Energy Management Mental Health Resources Title IX Fraud and Misconduct Hotline Online Institutional Resumes TTU System TTU Health Sciences Center TTUHSC El Paso Angelo State University Midwestern State University Statewide Search State of Texas Texas Homeland Security Texas Veterans Portal Texas CREWS SAO Fraud Reporting Open Records Requests © 2022 Texas Tech University School of Veterinary Medicine About School of Veterinary Medicine Back Why We Are Here School of Veterinary Medicine Back Our Mission History Core Values General School of Veterinary Medicine Back Accreditation Status Organizational Chart Licensure TTU Vet School Documentation Facilities School of Veterinary Medicine Back Amarillo Campus Mariposa Station Directory School of Veterinary Medicine Back Faculty Staff Giving School of Veterinary Medicine Back Contribute to the Dalton Horn Memorial Scholarship Contact Us School of Veterinary Medicine Back All Departments SVM IT Support Request Academics School of Veterinary Medicine Back DVM Program School of Veterinary Medicine Back Overview Academic Calendar Curriculum Digest Course Descriptions Required Items RaiderVet New Graduate Competencies Clinical Year School of Veterinary Medicine Back Distributed Veterinary Learning Community Clinical Year Curriculum Clinical Facilities Interested in Becoming a Partner Graduate Program School of Veterinary Medicine Back Overview Academic Calendar Resources School of Veterinary Medicine Back Policies and Procedures SVM Library and Information Services Main TTU Library Academic Life Coaching Program Important Contacts School of Veterinary Medicine Back Office of Academic Affairs Office of Clinical Programs Office of Research and Graduate Studies Admissions School of Veterinary Medicine Back General School of Veterinary Medicine Back Overview Application Process Requirements to Apply Selection Process Financial School of Veterinary Medicine Back Cost of Attendance Financial Aid New Mexico Resident Tuition Scholarships FAQ School of Veterinary Medicine Back Transfer policy Meet the Team School of Veterinary Medicine Back Office of Admissions Research School of Veterinary Medicine Back Veterinary Research Scholars Program School of Veterinary Medicine Back Overview Student Application Summer 2022 Potential Mentors and Topics Research Program Faculty School of Veterinary Medicine Back One Health Andragogical Scholarship Disease Ecology, Management and Prevention Sustainability of Animal Agriculture Molecular Mechanisms of Disease Meet the Team School of Veterinary Medicine Back Office of Research and Graduate Studies SVM Research Technical Support Request Student Life School of Veterinary Medicine Back Graduate Students School of Veterinary Medicine Back Graduate Student Association Student Resources School of Veterinary Medicine Back Life in Amarillo Title IX. – Link for reporting a violation Tech Alert System registration Student Disability Services News Join our team School of Veterinary Medicine Back Click for Faculty Positions – enter “Veterinary” and “Amarillo” in search window Click for Staff Positions – enter “Veterinary” and “Amarillo” in search window Additional Resources TTU HomeDirectory Raiderlink A-Z Index May 19, 2022