Texas Tech University Directory Raiderlink A-Z Index Animal Care & Use Menu Search TTU Animal Care and Use Committee Animal Care and Use Committee Animal research may never never look as exciting to the public as a college football game. However, everyone involved within this field of endeavor (from committee members to the animal care technicians and the investigators), are caring individuals that share, at their core, a deeply respectful and humane regard for the animals in their charge. Additionally, we should always be aware that it is through the work of dedicated individuals in animal research (past, present and future), that we can all look to the future as Fearless Champions. Welcome to the Animal Care and Use Committee Web site at Texas Tech University. The committee is dedicated to providing resources for all faculty, staff, and students involved with animal research at Texas Tech. We would like to help make the submission and reporting processes as applicable as possible for our investigators. We want to WELCOME all of our New School of Veterinary Medicine Faculty and Staff, but request that you give us a little information about your new position by filling out a short survey with regards to Animal work Covid-19 Information with regards to Animal Work For information and questions concerning University Policies and links, please follow this link to the COVID-19 Resource Hub Additionally, Animal Care Services facilities has made some changes to the way in which we will expect Lab Groups to conduct themselves in the facilities. Each Investigator should have submitted the Covid-19 Re-Entry Guidance document before working in the facilities. Everyone has been patient and compliant in these ambiguous times, and we appreciate your patience with these changes as we continue to move forward into Spring. AAALAC Accreditation Texas Tech's Animal Program Receives Full Accreditation again in 2020!!! The Texas Tech Animal Program has been accredited for over two decades, but why? AAALAC accreditation is a voluntary process that demonstrates high standards and a commitment to animal welfare and the humane treatment of animals in science. To achieve accreditation, Texas Tech participates in an independent, expert assessment of its programs, procedures, facilities and research every 3 years. AAALAC accreditation offers several benefits to the Texas Tech Animal Program, including: It signifies a quality program: Accreditation demonstrates Texas Tech's commitment to setting, achieving, and maintaining a high standard for animal care and use. Enhances scientific validity: Reliable results in scientific research involving animals depend on consistent standards and superior animal care. Accreditation engages scientists, managers, and administrators in a rigorous assessment of the animal program, ultimately resulting in better research practices and outcomes. Demonstrates accountability: Accreditation demonstrates a willingness to go above and beyond what is required by law to conduct animal research in a humane manner. It states to the university research community that we are committed to responsible animal research. Provides assurances to funding sources: Many funding sources view AAALAC accreditation as a commitment to program excellence, and as an assurance that animal use will be justified and humane and regulations will be followed. More than 890 companies, universities, hospitals, government agencies and other research institutions in 37 countries have earned AAALAC accreditation, demonstrating their commitment to responsible animal care and use. To view more information about AAALAC, the accreditation process, and the accreditation standards, visit www.aaalac.org. Noteworthy Animal Use News: Guns Up Award The Animal Care Services Department was recognized at a luncheon to honor Outstanding individuals across the Texas Tech Campus. The Guns Up Award recognizes a team of employees that foster cooperation with employees internal and/or external to increase productivity and efficiency in the organization. This team puts forth an exemplary effort, contributes to the morale of the department, accepts responsibility, and demonstrates a positive attitude. Teams receiving the Guns Up Award collaborate in meeting the needs of the Texas Tech Community. TTU Animal Technician presenting at the Texas Branch of the American Association of Lab Animal Science meeting, with signage developed at Texas Tech that can be beneficial to other institutions. New Shade System at Texas Tech Beef Center keeps cattle comfortable and healthy Texas Tech Animal Care Technicians are always striving to bring the best possible care to the research and teaching animals that are under their daily charge. All of our technicians are striving to improve that through certifications and continuing to learn the latest and best practices. One of our unsung hero's was recently recognized in the Texas Branch of the American Association of Lab Animal Science newsletter. Please take the time to learn a little more about her TBAALAS April 2017 Animal Care Services Participates in TTU Arbor Day Activities Striving for excellence is what it means to be a Red Raider, and finding ways to help our fellow man is always worth recognition. So we salute Dr. Harvinder Gill and his recent inclusion in Texas Monthly Magazine. TTU Researcher collaborating world wide to save bats. More here. TTU Animal Care Program Receives AAALAC Accreditation during their tri-anual site visit. More here. TTRC Studies Effect of Hippotherapy For Children With Disabilities So what does it mean to be an AAALAC Accredited Institution like Texas Tech University? Check out this video to see why we have been proud Members for nearly 2 decades!! Researchers Study Quail Parasite Infections Biologist Leads Group That Mapped Crocodilian Genomes PI and Unit Manager Disaster Preparedness Training Available on the training page or follow this link to the video Biology Department Says Goodbye to an Ambassador Texas Tech Therapeutic Riding Center recognized in the Lubbock Featured Investigator Animal Research- Animal Care Services Todd Anderson - TIEHH Brad Dabbert - Natural Resources Management James Carr - Biology Harvinder Gill - Chemical Engineering Paul Soto - Education Bradley Johnson - Animal & Food Science Peter Keyel - Biology Reynaldo Patino - TTU COOP Robin Verble - Natural Resources Management Mark Wallace - Natural Resources Management Chuck West - Plant and Soil Science Contact TTU Contact Contact TTUContact Contact TTU News News for NewsNews for News Events EventsEvents Animal Care & Use Address Texas Tech University, Animal Care Services, Box 43132, Lubbock, TX 79409 Phone IACUC 806.742.3853; ACS 806.742.3853 Email IACUC@ttu.edu; AnimalCareServices@ttu.edu Texas Tech University 2500 Broadway Lubbock, Texas 79409 806.742.2011 Follow Texas Tech University Like Texas Tech University on FacebookLike Texas Tech University on Facebook Follow Texas Tech University on twitterFollow Texas Tech University on twitter Check in with Texas Tech University on FourSquareCheck in with Texas Tech University on FourSquare Subscribe to Texas Tech University on YouTubeSubscribe to Texas Tech University on YouTube Follow Texas Tech University on FlickrFollow Texas Tech University on Flickr Follow Texas Tech University on InstagramFollow Texas Tech University on Instagram Connect with Texas Tech University on LinkedInConnect with Texas Tech University on LinkedIn Contact Texas Tech UniversityContact Texas Tech University Contact Us Campus Map Jobs @ TTU Emergency Communication Center General Policy Information Public Access to Course Info Energy Management Mental Health Resources Title IX Fraud and Misconduct Hotline Online Institutional Resumes TTU System TTU Health Sciences Center TTUHSC El Paso Angelo State University Midwestern State University Statewide Search State of Texas Texas Homeland Security Texas Veterans Portal Texas CREWS SAO Fraud Reporting Open Records Requests © 2022 Texas Tech UniversityApr 28, 2022 11:48 AM Animal Care & Use About the Committee Animal Care & Use About the Committee Back About IACUC Meetings and Submissions Animal Care Services Animal Care & Use Animal Care Services Back ACS Info Animal Care & Use Animal Care Services ACS Info Back About the Department Services Provided Per Diem Rates Rodent Health Reports IACUC Policies DEA Licence Training Policies & Guidelines Animal Care & Use Policies & Guidelines Back Regulations & Guidelines Policies & Procedures Animal Care & Use Policies & Guidelines Policies & Procedures Back Housing Policies and SOP's Procedure Policies and SOP's Regulatory Policies TTU Occupational Health & Safety Wildlife Policies and SOP's Research Guidelines Animal Care & Use Policies & Guidelines Research Guidelines Back Analgesic & Anesthetic Agents Surgical Procedures Euthanasia Zoonoses Guidelines Helpful Links Compliance and Instiutional Data Animal Care & Use Compliance and Instiutional Data Back Animal Welfare Concern Post Approval Monitoring Regulations Regulatory Agencies and Institutional Data Forms Additional Resources TTU HomeDirectory Raiderlink A-Z Index