Skip Navigation California State University, Fullerton Site Menu Division of Student Affairs Office of Financial Aid Main Navigation Undergraduate Show Extended Applying FAFSA Dream Act Cost of Attendance Disbursement Parent FAQs Maintaining Eligibility SAP Repeated Coursework R2T4 | Withdrawing Unit Cap Type of Awards Pell Grant FSEOG TEACH Grant Cal Grant California Dream Act Service Incentive Grant California Emergency Grant Chafee Grant SUG EOP Grant MCS Subsidized & Unsubsidized Parent Plus Dream Loan Federal Work Study Scholarships Credential Show Extended Applying FAFSA Dream Act Cost of Attendance Disbursement Parent FAQs Maintaining Eligibility SAP Repeated Coursework R2T4 | Withdrawing Unit Cap Type of Awards Pell Grant TEACH Grant Cal Grant California Emergency Grant Federal Work Study SUG Golden State Teacher Grant Subsidized & Unsubsidized Parent Plus Scholarships Dream Loan Graduate Show Extended Applying FAFSA Dream Act Cost of Attendance Disbursement FAQs Maintaining Eligibility SAP Repeated Coursework R2T4 | Withdrawing Unit Cap Type of Awards Golden State Teacher Grant TEACH Grant SUG Unsubsidized Graduate Plus Federal Work Study Scholarships Dream Loan Special Groups Show Extended Study Abroad Year Round Students Summer Forms & Appeals Contact Us Parent FAQs Consumer Information Disbursement FA Terms & Conditions FAFSA Dream Act Freshmen Guide Transfer Guide CSUF Net Price Calculator Financial Aid FAQ Dear Titans, we are experiencing longer processing times due to increased student service needs via phones as a result of COVID-19. We apologize for the inconvenience and thank you for your patience. The Office of Financial Aid is diligently working on assisting students with Financial Aid awards. This FAQ will be updated regularly with new information. Please refer to this page and our instagram at @CSUF_OfficeofFinancialAid. VIRTUAL Service Hours: Monday, Tuesday, Thursday (closed on Wednesday & Friday) Phone: 8:00 AM - 5:00 PM (Last call at 4:30 PM); Counseling: 9:00 AM - 3:30 PM (by appointment only) What are the current wait times for processing? Financial Aid Questions Ticket: 24-72 hours Document Processing: 4-6 weeks File Review: 4-6 weeks If you have submitted documents, and have not yet received a financial aid award, we are working diligently to have awards out as soon as possible. If you have not received a response via Financial Aid Questions, please do not send duplicate tickets, as this will only create further delays. Financial Aid Services Offered: Answer general questions Provide in-depth financial aid counseling Consider additional aid options Re-instate loans that were previously canceled. Contact us to update your 2021-2022 FAFSA/CDA if needed Contact Us: New! Financial Aid Questions: ask your financial aid questions on our website Phone: (657) 278-3125 Fax: (657) 278-1595 Instagram: @CSUF_OfficeofFinancialAid Secure Document Submission Platform Have more questions? Check out CSUF FAQ for students! To access more information, please refer to CSUF FAQs for Students Questions about Emergency Loans? Emergency loans are available through Student Business Services. Questions on Payment plans? Please visit Student Business Services for more information. Frequently Asked questions What is the deadline for the California Dream Act (CDA) and the FAFSA (Free Application for Federal Student Aid)? The Deadline for both applications is March 2nd, 2021. What if I submit my application after March 2nd, 2021? You are still able to submit your financial aid application after the March 2nd deadline, but it may affect your eligibility for specific grants and could possibly delay financial aid packaging, awarding, and disbursement. I need assistance with completing my CDA or FAFSA, can someone help me? Yes! The Office of Financial Aid offers CDA/FAFSA workshops during the Fall and Spring semesters to assist students to complete their respective applications. For more information on these workshops, visit our Applying page to view dates/times and register for workshops and Zoom drop-in meetings. How do I make a phone or Zoom Appointment with a Financial Aid Counselor? There are two options to request a phone or Zoom appointment with a Financial Aid Counselor: by Financial Aid Questions or phone. Complete a ticket using the Financial Aid Questions: our website inquiry ticketing system on our Contact Us page. Please include which type of appointment and provide phone number as well as 2-3 dates/times for the appointment Call our office at (657) 278-3125 during our phone hours for direct contact: Mondays, Tuesdays, and Thursdays from 8:00 AM - 4:30 PM Appointments are 30 minutes long and counseling hours are on Mondays, Tuesdays, and Thursdays from 9:00 AM - 3:30 PM I have a Transfer Monitoring Hold on my Student Center. What do I need to do? The U.S. Department of Education requires all schools to initiate a Transfer Monitoring process through the National Student Loan Data System (NSLDS) for any student who begins studies mid-year. This monitoring hold is required to ensure your federal student aid history is updated between the U.S. Department of Education, CSUF, and your prior university or college (if applicable). Please note, there is no action needed by you (the student) during this process. However, if you did receive financial aid at another school during this award year, you must have any pending financial aid disbursements at that school canceled. How do I use my financial aid GRANT awards to pay for tuition? Students do not need to do anything for financial aid grant awards to be applied to their tuition and fees. Financial aid is automatically added to a student's accounts once a student has an official financial aid award. We recommend viewing the "Account Inquiry" area in the student center to see if the financial aid award covered all of the tuition and fees. If it does not, the last column showing "Total Due" is the gap amount that the student is responsible for after financial aid is applied. How do I accept my loans? Accept direct loan(s) on your student portal Students who are eligible for federal loans will be able to accept loans on their student center. You do not have to accept the full amount you have been offered. To accept a lesser amount "accept" and then enter the amount you will borrow. Please keep in mind that if you will be attending CSUF for Fall 2021 Spring 2022, the amount you accept will be divided equally so that you receive half for each semester. Log on to www.studentaid.gov and use FSA ID to sign in and complete your Loan Entrance Counseling and your Master Promissory Note (MPN). Both the Loan Entrance Counseling and the MPN must be completed before loans are disbursed. Is there any other financial aid I can apply for? The Office of Financial Aid provides students with the financial aid that they are eligible for based on the Expected Family Contribution (EFC) on their FAFSA or CDA. If there has been a change in your financial situation, there may be additional assistance available. Please contact our office to set up an appointment with one of our financial aid counselors. I got my financial aid but I am missing my Cal Grant? We award Cal Grants to students throughout the term. Please ensure that you have CSUF (School Code: 001137) as your school of choice on Webgrants4Students in order for us to process your Cal Grant. Once we receive your information from the California Student Aid Commission and if you are eligible, we will place the award on your account. Why can't I accept my Federal Work Study Award? Students are not able to accept Federal Work Study as an award. The process works as follows: Students are notified that they are eligible for Federal Work Study Students then look for FWS employment through Titan Connection Once a student is offered a FWS position, the employer notifies the Office of Financial Aid The Office of Financial Aid will then process FWS employment. When can I submit my documents for 2021-2022? Required documents from students will appear in their To Do List on their Student Center. Students should monitor their Student Center and To Do List regularly for any updates. Is there a deadline to accept my financial aid awards? There is no deadline to accept your financial aid awards. If you have grants or scholarships, the Office of Financial Aid will automatically accept these awards on your behalf. If you would like to accept loans, you would need to accept them on your student center under "view financial aid". We recommend accepting loans early if you are planning on using loans to pay for tuition and fees. Are there any other resources available? Tuffy's Basic Needs Service Center provides assistance for students facing financial hardship with a variety of services. These services include: the Basic Needs Grant, assistance for food, hygine products, and business attire clothes, and temporary housing. Why am I only eligible for loans? I was expecting grants. The Office of Financial Aid provides students with the financial aid that they are eligible for. There are different reasons why you may only be eligible for loans. Financial Aid is based on EFC (Expected Family Contribution) from the FAFSA or CDA. If your EFC is higher, you may only be eligible for loans. If you would like information that is more detailed about your financial aid award, please contact our office at 657-278-3125. What is the difference between the anticipated Aid hold vs. No enrollment cancellation hold? Anticipated Aid Hold: There is enough anticipated aid on your account to cover the charges due this deadline and your courses are protected. No Enrollment Cancellation Hold: A hold that is manually placed to protect your courses this deadline while the Office of Financial Aid is packaging your award (amount to be determined). This site is maintained by Office of Financial Aid. Last Published 4/8/22 To report problems or comments with this site, please contact financialaid@fullerton.edu. © California State University, Fullerton. All Rights Reserved. Web Accessibility CSUF is committed to ensuring equal accessibility to our users. Let us know about any accessibility problems you encounter using this website. We'll do our best to improve things and get you the information you need. Resources: Download Adobe Acrobat Reader Adobe Reader Download Word viewer, or download Excel viewer, or download PowerPoint viewer Microsoft Viewers Report An ATI Issue Accessible @ CSUF Version_4.8.10 This page uses javascript to help render elements, if you have problems please enable javascript.