Future Students - University of Houston Skip to main content Submit Close Give to UH Search About Academics Admissions Campus Life Research Athletics Locations Sugar Land Katy UH Technology Bridge News & Events Giving UH Home Future Students Future Students Real Life, Real Experiences, Real Connections At the University of Houston, you’ll find a college experience that will transform your future to what you envision. Our nationally-ranked programs drive students to discover the multitude of academic resources that are available on-campus and online while our student-run organizations and athletics have something for everyone and connect students in authentic Coog culture. Volunteerism and community service are also a big part of UH’s commitment to engage students directly with local centers and nonprofits. We are Houston’s University. Launch Experience Explore Find out more about the University of Houston and all it has to offer. About UH Established in 1927, UH is the only public Tier One research university in Houston. Majors & Minors We offer programs for undergraduate, graduate, and doctoral students. Campus Life Come to campus for class, stay on campus for the experiences. Connect Your life is one destination after another, each a new beginning. At UH students can develop their interests and apply them to real life situations with community partnerships our university has shaped over the years. At the University of Houston, your ambition can take you anywhere. Schedule A Campus Visit Request Information Discover UH history, culture and traditions on your mobile device as you walk through campus by viewing photos and listening to the audio at each stop. Download the adventure at uh.edu/uhtours. Apply Ready to make it happen? Here’s everything you need to know about applying as an undergraduate, graduate student, or international student. You’ll also find information about UH’s generous financial aid programs. We look forward to welcoming you to the University of Houston! Incoming Freshmen Graduate Students International Students Transfer Students Veterans Former UH Students Go to applytexas.org or commonapp.org and fill out application Submit application and fee for admission* Send us your transcripts and test scores Check your application status at AccessUH Once accepted, you will receive an admit packet Register for new student orientation/conference *The University of Houston has some majors that have additional admission criteria. View Freshman, Transfer and International special major requirements. New Coogs Have you been admitted as a student to the University of Houston? Congratulations! Your adventure begins at UH. New Student Conferences Conferences for all new UH undergraduate students. Completion is required prior to advising and course registration. Register for Housing Want to live on campus? Find more information on how to apply for housing. UHin4 UHin4 is a program that helps students follow a comprehensive plan to graduate on-time in 4 years. Student Resources Already a Coog? Find more resources for current students. Paying for School To apply for federal financial aid, file the Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) at fafsa.gov (school code: 003652). Our helpful and knowledgeable financial aid staff can help you pursue grants, work-study and on-campus jobs, and loans (student and parent). Go To Financial Aid Find Available Scholarships Contact Us In Person Welcome Center Room 120 Mail University of Houston Office of Admissions Welcome Center 4434 University Drive Houston, TX 77204-2023 Request Information Online Form E-mail admissions@uh.edu Phone 713-743-1010, option 4 Admissions University of Houston Houston, Texas 77204 (713) 743-2255 A–Z Index Academic Calendar Campus Carry Policy Campus Map Career Opportunities Directory Emergency Information Get Help Human Resources Library Mental Health Resources Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Office of the President Parking Report Copyright Infringement Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness Open Records/Public Information Act Texas Veterans Portal Tuition & Fees UH System Virtual Tour ©2022 University of Houston. All rights reserved. Report a problem with this page Texas.gov Texas Homeland Security TRAIL Fraud Reporting Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Linking Notice Privacy Notice Open Records/Public Information Act Institutional Résumé Required Reports Electronic & Information Resources Accessibility Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness University Policies