Your browser does not support iframes. Skip to main content Menu Scheller College of Business Request More Information Attend an Info Session Contact Us Directory Apply Now Search Why Scheller? Programs Executive Education Academics Centers & Initiatives News & Events Overview & History Dean's Message and Report Meet Ernest Scheller Jr. Advisory Board Accreditation Strategic Plan Business at Tech Graduates Get Hired Return on Investment Faculty and Advisors Global Perspective A Good Fit Corporate Engagement Trading Floor Georgia Tech Community Student Life Making Connections and Learning Opportunities Diversity Diversity News Career and Recruiter Services Career Services for Students Hire Our Students Giving to the College Meeting the Challenge Priorities and Needs Faculty Support Student Support Program Enrichment Unrestricted Endowment The Impact of Your Gift How to Make a Gift FAQs Scheller MBA Annual Fund Alumni Network Alumni News Alumni Resources Update Contact Information Visit Campus Tech Square and Atlanta Full-time MBA Admissions Curriculum Career Development Leadership Development Student Organizations Student & Alumni Profiles Meet an MBA Ambassador FAQsEvening MBA Admissions Curriculum Career Advancement Leadership Development Student Organizations Student & Alumni Profiles Meet an MBA Ambassador FAQs Executive MBA Admissions Curriculum Career Development Student & Alumni Profiles FAQsMBA Programs Which Georgia Tech MBA is Right for Me? Commitment to Diversity, Inclusion, and Equity Dual Degree Options Experiential Learning For Engineers For Military Community MD/MBA Option MBA Early Admission for Undergrads Rankings The Intersection Podcast Earn Your MBA in Atlanta Graduate Certificate Business Analytics Certificate Undergraduate Admissions Curriculum Career Services Student Services Student Life Scholarships & Awards Rankings & Stats Connect With Us The Intersection Podcast, Undergrad PhD Concentrations Program Milestones Faculty and Staff Funding Admissions FAQs Recruiting Events Student Bios Program News Request Program Information Interdisciplinary M.S. M.S. in Quantitative & Computational Finance (QCF) Master of Science in Analytics at Georgia Tech Lean Six Sigma Certification Lean Six Sigma Green Belt Certification Lean Six Sigma Black Belt Certification FAQs Custom Programs FAQs Accounting Finance Information Technology Management Law & Ethics Marketing Operations Management Organizational Behavior Strategy & Innovation Student Certificates Engineering Entrepreneurship Entrepreneurship International Management Management of Technology Technology Innovation: Generating Economic Results Academic Speaker Series Guest Speakers in Accounting Guest Speakers in Finance Guest Speakers in Marketing Current Faculty Opportunities Business Analytics Center Engage with Us Executive Council News Research Education People Cecil B. Day Program for Business Ethics About Cecil B. Day The Cecil B. Day Prize Speakers and Events Faculty Support Net Impact Center for International Business Education and Research Projects Research Events Books People at CIBER Inside CIBER News and Events Archives International Management Certificate Sign Up for Future CIBER News Financial Analysis Lab Subscribe to Reports Institute for Leadership and Social Impact About Us Programs News Impact Speaker Series Leadership for Social Good Study Abroad Program Social Impact Fellows Ideas to Serve (I2S) Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Servant Leadership Programs Minor in Leadership Studies Excel Alumni Other ILSI Programs Partnerships Program for Engineering Entrepreneurship Ray C. Anderson Center for Sustainable Business About Us Sustainable Business Insights Research Briefs Sustainable Business Events Sustainable Business News Blog Research & Thought Leadership Empowering Students Industry Engagement Newsletter Participating in the Drawdown Georgia Compact Drawdown Georgia Business Compact Meet the Team Alumni Steven A. Denning Technology & Management Program Director's Message About Steven A. Denning T&M Curriculum Program Faculty & Staff Admissions T&M Corporate Affiliates Denning T&M Program News TI:GER® and CDL-Atlanta Program Network TI:GER MBA & PhD FAQs News Apply Inquire Resources in Technology Innovation and Entrepreneurship Scheller News Event Calendar The Intersection Podcast Media Inquiry Marketing Innovation Conference @ Scheller Evening MBA Student & Alumni Profiles Home » Programs » MBA » Evening MBA » Student & Alumni Profiles Menu Evening MBA Admissions Curriculum Career Advancement Leadership Development Student Organizations Student & Alumni Profiles Meet an MBA Ambassador FAQs Browse our Evening MBA student profiles below. Learn why our students chose to pursue an MBA and chose Georgia Tech's program over other options. Our Evening MBA student profiles include both current students and alumni. View Profile » Liz BivinsSenior Consultant, Enterprise Strategy, IBM Alumni View Profile » Skye BlevinsProduct Engineer, Newell Brands Student View Profile » David ChenLead Solutions Engineer - Large Enterprise Healthcare, Slack Alumni View Profile » Marie-Annick CoulibalyPathways Operations Manager, Amazon Alumni View Profile » Daniel DiazChief of Staff to Executive VP for T&PS, Southern Company Alumni View Profile » Nik DragovicProduct Manager, Emory University Student View Profile » Martin EstesSales Consultant, Swisslog Alumni View Profile » Brennan HammerHuman Resources Director, Avalara Alumni View Profile » Julia HodumDirector of Inclusion and Diversity, Schindler Elevator Corporation (U.S.) Alumni View Profile » Cerissa JoinerBusiness Analyst - User Experience, Emory University Alumni View Profile » DeAndre JonesManager, Deloitte Digital Alumni View Profile » Jerel JordanDigital Product Marketing Manager, Invesco Alumni View Profile » Horace MackeyStrategic Account Executive, Microsoft Alumni View Profile » Peter NguyenEnvironmental Engineer, Georgia Environmental Protection Division Alumni View Profile » Alex OrtizStrategy and Operations Consultant, Georgia Institute of Technology Alumni View Profile » Rene SimonData Science & ML Operations, Netflix Alumni View Profile » Nancy WhelessSenior Consumer Experience Consultant, Moxie Alumni Liz Bivins Senior Consultant, Enterprise Strategy, IBM Status:Alumni Program:Evening MBA The program goes by quickly once you start so take advantage of being there. It's most fun to be part of the community when you're friends with the people in your classes and people you're interview prepping with. Skye Blevins Product Engineer, Newell Brands Status:Student Program:Evening MBA Tech and business are harmoniously blended at Scheller. Its location in Tech Square allows for students gain access to professionals, companies, and ideas related to start-ups, data, and innovation. David Chen Lead Solutions Engineer - Large Enterprise Healthcare, Slack Status:Alumni Program:Evening MBA My favorite thing about Scheller is my classmates. With the Evening MBA program, we're all making sacrifices to be in class together, so there is an added sense of camaraderie. I really like the people I'm in class with. Marie-Annick Coulibaly Pathways Operations Manager, Amazon Status:Alumni Program:Evening MBA When I was at Scheller, I took leadership classes and technical classes. The concept of emotional intelligence taught in my MBA classes helped me quickly earn the trust of my team. I am now able to motivate my team daily and drive results at work. The quantitative courses such as Lean Six Sigma helped me understand how to define and remove any types of defects in my department thus increasing the performance of my team. Furthermore, the data analytics courses improved my ability to use data to make hypotheses that I can easily prove or disprove through tests and analysis. Daniel Diaz Chief of Staff to Executive VP for T&PS, Southern Company Status:Alumni Program:Evening MBA My favorite thing at Scheller is the community. Being able to arrive on campus and find a group of diverse minds that you enjoy sharing this journey with is the foundation for the program's success. My network at Scheller has been instrumental to my life. I stay in touch with a large group of people I studied with and have outings with them regularly. Nik Dragovic Product Manager, Emory University Status:Student Program:Evening MBA Leadership opportunities abound at Scheller, and access to varied and active clubs starts at orientation. OneMBA Clubs help unite students throughout various programs around areas of interest. I’ve found my participation in Scheller Pride has also opened the door to partnerships with other schools and organizations throughout the country. Martin Estes Sales Consultant, Swisslog Status:Alumni Program:Evening MBA I've had some great practicum experiences with hands-on work with Fortune 100 companies. The combination of curriculum with hands-on learning has fostered a deeper understanding of multiple subjects. I have been on great teams guided by great professors, and the support of the outside companies has really fostered in-depth learning with real-world application. Brennan Hammer Human Resources Director, Avalara Status:Alumni Program:Evening MBA I love the sense of community within our cohort. Scheller is full of smart, talented, genuinely kind people. Julia Hodum Director of Inclusion and Diversity, Schindler Elevator Corporation (U.S.) Status:Alumni Program:Evening MBA I was able to completely shift careers within my company while participating in the Evening MBA program. The Evening MBA program allowed me to develop new business skills as well as leadership strategies that helped me to transition into a new field as the first D&I lead at my company. I can’t imagine such a positive experience in any other program! Cerissa Joiner Business Analyst - User Experience, Emory University Status:Alumni Program:Evening MBA As a board member of Blacks in Business, I witnessed firsthand how impactful OneMBA clubs are for the identifies population and their allies. As we meet, socialize, and work towards our goals, the ally group grows each time. It's a wonderful, safe space that encourages you to be your authentic self while embracing someone else doing the same. DeAndre Jones Manager, Deloitte Digital Status:Alumni Program:Evening MBA The thing I loved about Scheller was that it was right in the entrepreneurial hub of Atlanta. Being in the Evening MBA program meant that Georgia Tech had a partnership with any organization or company that I wanted to work with, or I was sitting right next to someone who works for that company in class. Jerel Jordan Digital Product Marketing Manager, Invesco Status:Alumni Program:Evening MBA As a former engineer who concentrated in marketing throughout my time in the Evening MBA program, I completely changed the trajectory of my career. Because of the marketing and technology coursework provided within the program, I've held multiple managerial roles in brand management and product marketing management at Fortune 500 companies. Horace Mackey Strategic Account Executive, Microsoft Status:Alumni Program:Evening MBA The Jones MBA Career Center helped me with my career change by engaging me before I began my coursework. I met weekly with my career counselor to prepare and practice for professional recruitment opportunities. This dedication, persistent support, and availability from the Center made my investment in the Scheller program worth it. It has changed the trajectory of my life. Peter Nguyen Environmental Engineer, Georgia Environmental Protection Division Status:Alumni Program:Evening MBA The diverse offerings of practicum classes gave me the hands-on experience needed to pivot my career. Taught by industry leading instructors, each practicum allowed my team to work on a real and actionable business project for a client. The Sustainability Practicum was one of my most valued courses because I learned various tools and frameworks to come up with creative solutions. In a short amount of time, I was able to learn and execute practical business skills and concepts that also spoke volumes during interviews for my new role. Alex Ortiz Strategy and Operations Consultant, Georgia Institute of Technology Status:Alumni Program:Evening MBA I chose Georgia Tech because of its strong foundation in technology and data analysis. In today's world, nothing is accomplished without the use of technology, and large amounts of data are ubiquitous in every company. Georgia Tech has given me the tools I need to function in the modern business world. Rene Simon Data Science & ML Operations, Netflix Status:Alumni Program:Evening MBA The MBA changed the way I look at business decisions, and I realized that business decisions can be applied anywhere. When my son is trying to make a decision about which sports team he is trying to go out for because the seasons overlap, I can talk to him about ROI and opportunity cost. He doesn’t always enjoy those conversations, but he will eventually get it. They are concepts that can be applied anywhere. It has given me a new set of tools to approach life’s problems. Nancy Wheless Senior Consumer Experience Consultant, Moxie Status:Alumni Program:Evening MBA Scheller is home for me, and I enjoyed the culture there the most. Everyone was welcoming and helpful. Professors aren't just academics; they have a ton of real-world knowledge to help you along the way. The students were sharp and intelligent and weren't overly competitive. We all helped each other succeed. Related Links FAQs Information for recruiters Evening MBA class profile Take action Request More Info Attend an Info Session Meet Us Scheller College of Business Home Why Scheller? Overview & History Business at Tech Georgia Tech Community Career and Recruiter Services Giving to the College Alumni Network Visit Campus Tech Square and Atlanta Programs MBA Undergraduate PhD Interdisciplinary M.S. Executive Education Lean Six Sigma Certification Custom Programs Academics Accounting Finance Information Technology Management Law & Ethics Marketing Operations Management Organizational Behavior Strategy & Innovation Student Certificates Academic Speaker Series Current Faculty Opportunities Centers & Initiatives Business Analytics Center Cecil B. Day Program for Business Ethics Center for International Business Education and Research Financial Analysis Lab Institute for Leadership and Social Impact Program for Engineering Entrepreneurship Ray C. Anderson Center for Sustainable Business Steven A. Denning Technology & Management Program TI:GER® and CDL-Atlanta News & Events Scheller News Event Calendar The Intersection Podcast Media Inquiry Marketing Innovation Conference @ Scheller LinkedIn Instagram Facebook Twitter Youtube Flickr Georgia Institute of Technology Scheller College of Business 800 W. Peachtree St. NW Atlanta, GA 30308 404.894.2600 © 2022 Georgia Institute of Technology Intranet Emergency Information Contact the College Privacy & Legal Notice Accountability Web Accessibility Resources for People with Disabilities Plugins Youtube Usage Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Hazing Public Disclosures