Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu School of Communication Sciences and Disorders About Programs People Research Areas Student Orgs Resources News Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact Programs MA in SLP AdmissionsCurriculumNon-CSD CourseworkClinical EducationAdditional InformationApply NowSLP Program DescriptionSLP Program Goals AuD in Audiology AdmissionsCurriculumNon-CSD CourseworkClinical EducationAdditional InformationApply NowAuD Program DescriptionAuD Program GoalsAuD Specialization TracksAuD-PhD ProgramDual AuD-MPH Program PhD in CSD AdmissionsApply Now Program DescriptionPhD Program Goals American Sign Language ASL and Deaf Studies ASL Courses ASL as World Language ASL Minor ASL Placement and Credit Why ASL? Graduate Certificates AACPopulation Hearing HealthVocology Continuing Education Walt Fritz Seminar Diversity Take Action Apply Now Support the School Memphis Speech and Hearing Center Contact Us Follow Us Online InstagramFacebooktwitter Home School of Communication Sciences and Disorders Programs ASL Courses ASL Course Descriptions Beginning Fall 2022, all American Sign Language courses will use the prefix AMSL instead of AUSP. AMSL 1010: Intro Amer Sign Lang I (3 cr) Basic comprehension and expressive skills in American Sign Language (ASL), including vocabulary, grammar, and finger spelling. Includes in- and out-of-class practice and practical applications. AMSL 1020: Intro Amer Sign Lang II (3 cr) Further development of production and comprehension of ASL, including vocabulary, grammar, sentence structures, conversational strategies, and cultural/linguistic aspects. Prerequisite: Satisfactory performance in AMSL 1010 or permission of the instructor. AMSL 2010: Intermed Amer Sign Lang I (3 cr) Development of visual-spatial (gestural) skills and improvement of expressive fluency and receptive skills. The use of lexicalized signs and fluency/accuracy of finger-spelling will be developed. Prerequisite: Satisfactory performance in AMSL1020 or permission of the instructor. AMSL 2020: Intermed Amer Sign Lang II (3 cr) Continued development of conversational ASL skills, expressive fluency, and receptive skills. The use of lexicalized signs and fluency of finger-spelling will be honed. Prerequisite: Satisfactory performance in AMSL 2010 or permission of the instructor. AMSL 3010: Advanced ASL (3cr) The course continues development of conversational skills, receptive skills, and expressive fluence in American Sign Language. Prerequisite: Satisfactory performance in AMSL 2020. AMSL 3020: Advanced Fingerspelling (as of fall 2020) (3 cr) This course will develop expressive and receptive fingerspelling skills that focus on whole-word and phrase recognition as well as identifying fingerspelling words in context and developing speed, clarity, and fluency. PREREQUISITE: AMSL 1020 or permission of instructor. AMSL 4205/6205: ASL for Speech Pathologists, Audiologists, and Educators (3cr) This course presents (1) basic vocabulary and grammar of American Sign Language appropriate for use in the classroom and therapy setting and (2) specific topics, information, and strategies that provide exposure to elements of Deaf Culture and the Deaf community for speech-language pathologists, audiologists, and educators. Cross listing: 6205. AMSL 4206: Deaf Culture and Deaf History (3cr) This course is designed to introduce the most important aspects of the American Deaf experience by exploring the history, contributions, and contemporary lives of Deaf people in America. Cross listing: 6206. AMSL 4207: Psychological, Sociological, and Educational Perspectives of Deafness This class focuses on multiple perspectives including psychological, sociological, and educational issues from the point of view of d/Deaf adults and professionals in these fields who work with the d/Deaf. PREREQUISITE: AMSL 1010 or AMSL 4205/6205. Cross listing: AMSL 6207 AMSL 4208: Introduction to Interpreting American Sign Language (3cr) This course guides the student through the process necessary for becoming a qualified interpreter in a market that is rapidly changing by providing a broad base of knowledge that addresses current trends and promotes critical thinking and open dialogue about the necessary competencies, conditions, boundaries, and ethics to become an interpreter. Prerequisite: AMSL 1020 and AMSL 3020. AMSL 4209: Linguistics of American Sign Language (3cr) This course defines language and linguistics as it refers to American Sign Language focusing on the primary traditions of communication, pattern formation, and cognition. Prerequisite: AMSL 2010. AUSP 2001: Introduction to Communication Sciences and Disorders (3cr) Introduction to the broad field of communication sciences and disorders through exploration of treatment areas, populations that are served, and settings in which individuals with communication disorders and differences are served. AUSP 4106/6106: Introduction to Audiology (3cr) Introduction to anatomy and physiology of the ear; the etiology, pathology and treatment of hearing loss; and the education implications of hearing loss; also introduces hearing assessment techniques, including audiogram interpretation. Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 3/29/22 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.