Skip to main content Skip to main content SMU Home Giving Giving Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. Simmons About Dean's Message Programs, Degrees, and Certifications Faculty and Staff Directory Simmons Governance Simmons School History Executive Board Simmons Luminary Award XPRIZE Honor Code Simmons Resources Travel-Study Programs Simmons Lecture Series AERA 2022 Graduation Ceremony May 2022 Paving the Way to Inclusion Conference Simmons Graduate Council Faculty and Administrative Position Openings Simmons Blogs and Social Media Hub Annette Caldwell Simmons Hall Harold Clark Simmons Hall Photo Tour Contact Us Academic Departments & Areas of Study Applied Physiology & Wellness B.S. | Applied Physiology & Sport Mgmt. Undergraduate Specializations Applied Physiology and Health Management Sport Management Sport Performance Leadership M.S. | Health Promotion Management M.S. | Sport Management Non-Degree | Wellness Dispute Resolution & Counseling M.S. | Counseling Specialties Clinical Mental Health Marriage, Couple and Family School Counseling M.A. | Dispute Resolution Non-Degree | Dispute Resolution Specialties Executive Coaching Education Policy & Leadership M.Ed. | PK-12 School Leadership M.Ed. | Higher Education Ed.D. | PK-12 School Leadership Ed.D. | Higher Education Graduate Liberal Studies MLS | Science, Arts, & Humanities DLS | Science, Arts, & Humanities Non-Degree | Science, Arts, & Humanities Ph.D. in Education Teaching & Learning B.S. | M.Ed | MBE | Ph.D. Graduate Specializations Bilingual Special Ed ESL Gifted Literacy Math STEM Urban Education Research Research A comprehensive list of Simmons research projects Faculty Research Publications & Presentations Recent research publications and presentations Center on Research & Evaluation (CORE) Offers comprehensive program evaluation services, largely in the non-profit sector, and performs education research Research in Mathematics Education Conducts research in mathematics education and disseminates findings Integrative Physiology Laboratory Investigates autonomic function and thermoregulation in healthy and clinical populations Locomotor Performance Laboratory Studies terrestrial locomotion and the relationship of muscle function to metabolic energy expenditure and performance Center for VR Learning Innovation Investigates the use of virtual, augmented and mixed reality for education and human development Youth Sports Impact Partnership SMU and the Children’s Health Andrews Institute have launched a collaboration dedicated to improving the health, activity levels, and well-being of kids. Research Resources for Simmons Faculty and Staff Technology and Education Cluster Our Faculty Community Engagement Advanced Placement Summer Institute Summer Institute for AP and Pre-AP Teachers The Budd Center Partners with community agencies to offer educational opportunities for disadvantaged children Center for Family Counseling Counseling services in Plano for individuals and families College Access Programs Programs and workshops that help students advance academically Institute for Leadership Impact Leaders in education, health and social enterprise enhance skills to lead organizations and solve real-world problems Project Connect A repository of ideas, activities and videos for educators interested in improving instruction for English Language Learners West Dallas STEM-Focused School Preparing students for the next generation of STEM jobs Alumni Search Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. Navigate Search Skip to main content Simmons About Simmons About Simmons Graduation Ceremony May 2022 Simmons COVID-19 Information Fall 2021 Important Student Information Dean's Message Faculty and Staff Directory Academic Integrity and Code of Conduct History: from 1920 Executive Board Simmons News Catalogs Giving Academic Services Simmons Strategic Plan Simmons Resources Travel-Study Programs Simmons Lecture Series AERA 2022 Simmons Luminary Award Paving the Way to Inclusion Simmons Graduate Council Faculty and Administrative Openings Simmons Governance Simmons Newsletters Simmons Blogs and Social Media XPRIZE Alumni Contact Us Academics Academics Applied Physiology and Sports Management Dispute Resolution Counseling Education Policy and Leadership Graduate Liberal Studies Ph.D. Teacher Education Programs & Degrees Fall 2021 Graduate Student Orientation Our Faculty Our Faculty Faculty Research Publications & Presentations Research Research Research Projects Archive 2020-21: Research Snapshot Research Resources Virtual Reality Surgery Simulator (VRSS) Integrative Physiology Laboratory CORE Locomotor Performance Laboratory Research in Mathematics Education Center for VR Learning Innovation Youth Sports Impact Partnership Faculty Research Publications and Presentations Dallas Noyce: A Community-Focused Mathematics Teacher Pipeline Technology and Education Cluster Community Engagement Community Engagement Advanced Placement Summer Institute College Access Programs The Budd Center: Involving Communities in Education Institute for Leadership Impact Center for Family Counseling Project Connect West Dallas STEM-Focused School Alumni ☰ Our Faculty SMU Simmons Our Faculty Endowed Faculty Stephanie Knight, Ed.D. Leon Simmons Endowed Dean of the Annette Caldwell Simmons School of Education and Human Development Well-respected in her field, Knight began her service as the Simmons School dean in August 2017. Prior to this, she joined Pennsylvania State University in 2009 as professor of educational psychology, where she taught courses in educational psychology and effective learning. In 2013 she became associate dean at Penn State, leading the College of Education’s undergraduate and graduate studies programs. Prior to that, she held a 20-year tenure at Texas A&M. Knight’s scholarship includes interest in relationships between instructional strategies, classroom processes, learning environments and student outcomes; teacher professional development, and the use of observational techniques to study classroom processes. She recently concluded five years as co-editor of the Journal of Teacher Education and also served from 2004 to 2006 as co-editor of the Teaching, Learning and Human Development section of the American Educational Research Journal. She currently serves as associate editor of the Review of Educational Research. Read more Stephanie Al Otaiba, Ph.D. Patsy and Ray Caldwell Centennial Chair She’s passionate about helping children learn to read successfully by providing them with reading interventions that have evidence behind them and by developing an evidence base for new interventions. Her research team has attracted federally funded grants to support this line of research, which is conducted in Dallas ISD schools. Impact can be seen in these schools, where historically many children have not been able to read on grade level. Read more. "Support for the work we do at Simmons translates directly into improving the knowledge of teachers. Further, this translates into increasing students’ reading abilities and, in turn, their preparedness to succeed in school and as citizens.” Leanne Ketterlin Geller, Ph.D. Texas Instruments Endowed Chair in Education Dr. Ketterlin Geller is a professor in Simmons’ Education Policy and Leadership department and is director of the K-12 STEM Initiatives project in the Lyle School of Engineering. Her scholarship contributes to understanding and closing the gap in mathematics education by emphasizing the role that educational systems play in supporting teachers’ instructional decision making. Her work includes creating assessments that teachers can use to make meaningful decisions and understanding what makes tests more (or less) accessible for some students. Read more. “Because we know that pressing problems are multi-dimensional and multi-faceted, our faculty works together to harness our unique perspectives to make a difference in shaping the education of tomorrow.” Peter Weyand, Ph.D. Glenn Simmons Endowed Professor Dr. Weyand is an internationally recognized expert in human speed. His research at SMU's Locomotor Performance Laboratory explores the scientific basis of fitness, performance, and health using whole-body biomechanical and physiological approaches. On a daily basis, research can involve anything from running Olympic athletes on the turbo-treadmill to conducting walking metabolic tests at Flag Pole Hill. Read more. “We are having quite a productive time doing cowboy science in the Lone Star state thanks to the support made possible by the Simmons School and SMU." Full Professors Jill Allor, Ed.D Teaching and Learning Dr. Jill Allor is a professor with the Department of Teaching and Learning. She received her Ed.D. in special education with an emphasis on reading and reading disabilities from Peabody College of Vanderbilt University in 1996. A former special education teacher, her research is school-based and focuses on reading acquisition for students with and without disabilities, including students with learning disabilities and intellectual disabilities. Prior to arriving at SMU in 2004, she held faculty appointments at Florida State University and Louisiana State University. Read more. Eric Bing, MD, Ph.D. Applied Physiology and Wellness, Global Leadership Institute Eric G. Bing, MD, Ph.D., MBA is a professor of global health in the Department of Applied Physiology and Wellness in the Simmons School and in the Department of Anthropology in Dedman College of Humanities and Sciences at SMU. He has a concurrent appointment with the George W. Bush Institute as senior fellow and director of global health. Read more. Michael S. Harris, Ed.D. Education Policy and Leadership Michael S. Harris is a Professor of higher education, Department Chair of the Department of Education Policy and Leadership, and director of SMU's Center for Teaching Excellence. His research investigates the impact of economic, political, and social changes influence on the culture, strategy, and behavior of higher education institutions. His current research focuses on differences in behaviors with respect to different missions and organizational cultures. Read more. Tim Jacobbe, Ph.D. Teaching and Learning Dr. Tim Jacobbe is the Associate Dean for Academic Affairs and Professor in the Department of Teaching and Learning at Southern Methodist University. He also has a courtesy appointment as a Professor in the Department of Statistical Science at SMU. Prior to serving as a faculty member, Dr. Jacobbe was an assessment specialist for Educational Testing Service where he served as one of the primary test developers for the AP Statistics program as well as the SAT and GRE. As PI on the NSF-funded Levels of Conceptual Understanding in Statistics (LOCUS) project, Dr. Jacobbe helped lead a team of tremendous statistics educators in transforming the way statistics is assessed on high stakes assessments. Read more. Lynn Romejko Jacobs, Ph.D. Applied Physiology and Wellness Dr. Lynn Romejko Jacobs developed an interest in adult fitness when she served as the physical supervisor at the Dallas Cardiac Institute working to rehabilitate patients who had undergone heart surgery. She fueled her fitness interests even further when she served for two years as an Athletic Director for the oil corporation, the Western Company of N.A., in Ft. Worth, Texas. Designing employees' fitness programs along with coordinating incentives and benefits within the company were strategic to the success of this experience. These two experiences prepared her for continued growth in adult fitness and wellness. Read more. Aki Kamata, Ph.D. Education Policy and Leadership Dr. Kamata is a Professor at Southern Methodist University (Department of Education Policy & Leadership, Center on Research and Evaluation, Simmons School of Education & Human Development; Department of Psychology, Dedman College of Humanities and Sciences). Prior to joining SMU in 2013, Dr. Kamata was a Professor at the University of Oregon and Florida State University. Dr. Kamata's primary research interest is psychometrics and educational and psychological measurement, focusing on implementation of item-level test data analysis methodology through various modeling framework, including item response theory, multilevel modeling, and structural equation modeling. Read more. Anthony Petrosino, Ph.D. Teaching and Learning Dr. Petrosino serves as the Associate Dean for Research and Outreach in SMU’s Simmons School and Professor in the Simmons Department of Teaching and Learning. Dr. Petrosino has received more than 17 million dollars in grants from the National Science Foundation, the Department of Education and the McDonnel Foundation for Cognitive Studies. His research interests include students understanding of experimentation, engineering education and the development of expertise. He is Co-Founder of the nationally recognized UTeach Program. Dr. Petrosino has published over 40 peer reviewed journal articles, made over 100 national and international conference presentations and has supervised a dozen doctoral dissertations. Read more. Paige Ware, Ph.D. Teaching and Learning Dr. Paige Ware is a professor in the Department of Teaching & Learning and Associate Provost at Southern Methodist University. Prior to earning her doctorate in Education, Language, Literacy, and Culture at the University of California at Berkeley, she was an English as a Second Language (ESL) and English as a Foreign Language (EFL) teacher. Her research focuses both on the use of multimedia technologies for fostering language and literacy growth among adolescents, as well as on the use of Internet-based communication for promoting intercultural awareness through international and domestic online language and culture partnerships. Read more. Associate and Assistant Professors Dominique Baker, Ph.D. Education Policy and Leadership Dominique Baker is an Associate Professor of Education Policy in the Annette Caldwell Simmons School of Education and Human Development. Her research focuses on the way that education policy affects and shapes the access and success of underrepresented students in higher education. She has received an AERA research grant for 2020-2021 to study course-taking and student loan debt in Texas. She primarily investigates student financial aid, affirmative action, and policies that influence the ability to create an inclusive and equitable campus climate. Read more. Sondra Barringer, Ph.D. Education Policy and Leadership As an Assistant Professor in the Department of Education Policy and Leadership, Dr. Sondra N. Barringer teaches courses in statistics and academic governance. She was awarded her Ph.D. and Master of Art in Sociology from the University of Arizona where her research was funded by the Association for Institutional Research and an Excellence Graduate Fellowship in the Social Sciences. Read more. Scott L. Davis, Ph.D. Applied Physiology and Wellness Associate Professor Scott Davis is a physiologist who joined the faculty of SMU in the Fall of 2010. He is the Director of the Applied Physiology Laboratory in the Department of Applied Physiology and Wellness. He is also currently an adjunct faculty member in the Department of Neurology at the University of Texas Southwestern Medical Center at Dallas. Read more. Anne Garrision Wilhelm, Ph.D. Teaching and Learning Dr. Annie Wilhelm is an Associate Professor of Mathematics Education in the department of Teaching and Learning. She holds B.S. degrees in Mathematics and Computer Science from Santa Clara University, an M.A. in Mathematics from the University of Washington, and an M.Ed and a Ph.D. degree in Curriculum and Instructional Leadership and Mathematics Education from Vanderbilt University. Prior to attending Vanderbilt, Dr. Wilhelm taught high school mathematics, ranging from Algebra 1 to AP Calculus, for four years in the Seattle area. Read more. Alexandra Pavlakis, Ph.D. Education Policy and Leadership Dr. Pavlakis is an Associate Professor of Education Policy and Leadership. She holds a Ph.D. in Educational Leadership and Policy Analysis from the University of Wisconsin-Madison, an M.Sc. in Social Policy and Planning from The London School of Economics and Political Science, an M.Sc. in Teaching from Pace University through the New York City Teaching Fellows Program, and a B.A. in History from Brown University. Read more. Meredith Richards, Ph.D. Education Policy and Leadership Dr. Meredith Richards is an Associate Professor of Education Policy and Leadership. She received her Ph.D. in Educational Policy from the University of Texas at Austin and was an IES Post-doctoral Fellow in Education Policy and Methods at the University of Pennsylvania. Read more. Amy Gillespie Rouse, Ph.D. Teaching and Learning Amy Gillespie Rouse, Ph.D., is an Associate Professor in the Department of Teaching and Learning at Southern Methodist University. After earning her Bachelor of Arts in Sociology and Master of Teaching from the University of Virginia, Dr. Gillespie Rouse was a teacher, primarily in Tier 1 and Tier 2 elementary settings, in Virginia public schools for five years. She subsequently earned her doctorate in Special Education from Vanderbilt University, where she was an IES predoctoral fellow. Read more. Quentin Sedlacek, Ph.D. Teaching and Learning Dr. Quentin Sedlacek is an Assistant Professor of STEM Education at the Simmons School of Education and Human Development. He holds a B.A. in Physics from Harvard University, an M.A. in Curriculum and Instruction from the University of Mississippi, and a Ph.D. in Race, Inequality, and Language in Education and Teacher Education from Stanford University. Prior to attending Stanford, he taught science and mathematics for five years at public schools in Mississippi and American Sāmoa. During his doctoral studies, he co-founded a peer mentorship program for graduate students and organized a yearlong event series centering the perspectives of LGBTQ+ people of color in education. After completing his Ph.D., he served as a postdoctoral STEM education researcher in the College of Science at California State University, Monterey Bay. Read more. Candace Walkington, Ph.D. Teaching and Learning Dr. Candace Walkington is an Associate Professor and a Gerald J. Ford Research Fellow in the Department of Teaching and Learning at Southern Methodist University, specializing in mathematics education. She holds a B.S. and M.S. in Mathematics from Texas A&M University, and she is a former NSF-GK12 Fellow and college mathematics professor. She received her Ph.D. in Mathematics Education from University of Texas at Austin. She was also an IES Postdoctoral Fellow in Mathematical Thinking, Learning, and Instruction at the University of Wisconsin-Madison. Dr. Walkington was a recipient of a Spencer Postdoctoral Research Fellowship Grant. In 2019, Dr. Walkington received the Presidential Early Career Award for Scientists and Engineers (PECASE) from the U.S. Department of Education. Read more. Jeanna Wieselmann, Ph.D. Teaching and Learning Dr. Jeanna R. Wieselmann is an Assistant Professor of STEM Education in the Department of Teaching and Learning at Southern Methodist University. She holds a B.S. in Elementary Education Foundations, B.A. in Child Psychology, M.Ed. in Elementary Education, and Ph.D. in Curriculum and Instruction, all from the University of Minnesota. She was a recipient of the National Science Foundation’s Graduate Research Fellowship Program. Read more. Clinical Professors and Lecturers Caitlin Anderson Applied Physiology and Wellness Caitlin Anderson is a Senior Lecturer in the Department of Applied Physiology and Wellness. She earned her Master's degree in Educational Administration from Texas A&M University, with an emphasis in Student Affairs Administration in Higher Education. She joined the SMU faculty in 2012. Read more. Kim Baker Teaching and Learning Kim Baker is a Lecturer in the Department of Applied Physiology and Wellness. She earned her undergraduate degree at Southern Methodist University, and her Master’s degree from the University of North Texas. She has been teaching in higher education for three decades in the areas of Kinesiology, Health, and Physical Activity, and has extensive experience as a Coordinator of Physical Activity programs, as well as experience in curriculum and course development, and program assessment. She joined the faculty at SMU in fall 2019, and is currently teaching Personal Responsibility and Wellness-II activities and HDEV courses. Read more. Ann Batenburg, Ph.D. Teaching and Learning Dr. Ann Batenburg serves as a Clinical Associate Professor of Gifted Education in the Simmons School. She earned her Ph.D. in Teaching and Learning with a focus in Gifted Education from the University of Iowa in 2011. She also holds two master's degrees: one in Special Education from Northern Illinois University in DeKalb, Illinois, and one in Teacher Leadership from North Park College in Chicago. Read more. David Bertrand Applied Physiology and Wellness David Bertrand is a Clinical Assistant Professor in the Applied Physiology & Wellness Department. He earned his M.S.Ed. in Health & Human Performance from Baylor University, with a special emphasis in Sport Pedagogy. David started teaching at SMU in 2007 and thoroughly enjoys sharing his passion for health, wellness, and coaching with all students. Read more. Watt Lesley Black, Jr., Ph.D. Education Policy and Leadership Watt Lesley Black, Jr. joined the SMU faculty after a 26-year career in public schools, where he began as a foreign language teacher and ended with a successful 8-year tenure as principal at Blalack Middle School in Carrollton-Farmers Branch ISD. Read more. Sarah Brown, Ph.D. Applied Physiology and Wellness Sarah Brown, is a Clinical Assistant Professor in the Sport Management program. Her research interests include brand development, management and protection in the digital era. Specifically, examining how new technologies influence and impact brands and the underlying legal implications. Sarah earned her Juris Doctorate from Marquette University Law School, with a specialization in sport law. Read more. Roxanne Burleson, Ph.D. Education Policy and Leadership Dr. Roxanne Burleson is a Clinical Associate Professor and the Director of the Accelerated Leadership Program in the department of Education Policy and Leadership. Her research interests include education policy and governance of public and non-profit organizations. Roxanne spent thirty-one years in public education as a teacher, middle school and high school principal, and assistant superintendent for Plano ISD. Read more. Peter Carton Jr., J.D. Applied Physiology and Wellness Peter Carton, J.D., is a Clinical Assistant Professor and the Director of Sport Management in the department of Applied Physiology and Wellness. He received his J.D. from Seton Hall University School of Law in Newark, NJ and his experience includes working for Major League Baseball (MLB). Read more. Piotr Chelstowski Applied Physiology and Wellness Piotr Chelstowski is a professional sport teacher with a martial arts specialization, professional rock climbing instructor, and nationally certified Personal Fitness Trainer. He began at SMU in the spring of 1995 as a co-founder and coach of the SMU Judo Club. Several months later he joined the Wellness Department as a part time judo, a self defense,first aid, and CPR instructor. Read more. Anthony Cuevas, Ph.D. Teaching and Learning Dr. Tony Cuevas is a Clinical Professor and director of the Teacher Development Studio. Dr. Cuevas began his career in education as a secondary teacher in Louisiana and earned his Ph.D. in Instructional Systems from Florida State University. He worked as an Instructional Designer and Curriculum Director at EDS and A.T. Kearney for several years before joining SMU. He designed the curriculum for the SMU Guildhall Master of Interactive Technology degree program, rated one of the top programs in the U.S., and served as Academic Director for several years before transferring to Simmons School. Read more. Greta Davis, Ph.D. Counseling Graduate Studies Dr. Greta Davis is a counselor educator, career counselor, and executive coach with 15 years' experience in career development providing services to individual clients, organizations, academic institutions, and the federal government. Read more. Mario De La Garza, Ph.D. Clinical Assistant Professor, Counseling Graduate Studies, Ph.D. Dr. De La Garza earned his master’s and doctoral degrees in counseling from the University of North Texas. He earned his bachelor’s degree in biology at Abilene Christian University. He is a Licensed Professional Counselor with a supervisor credential in the state of Texas as well as a National Certified Counselor. Read more. Sherril English, Ph.D. Teaching and Learning Sherril English became an Clinical Associate Professor in the Simmons School after serving in various other roles in Simmons, including the Project Coordinator for the Early Learning in Mathematics kindergarten research study, a member of the Department of Teaching and Learning's faculty search and recruitment committee, and a student teaching/intern supervisor. Read more. S. Kiersten Ferguson, Ph.D. Education Policy and Leadership Dr. S. Kiersten Ferguson is a Clinical Associate Professor and the higher education program director in the department of Education Policy & Leadership. Dr. Ferguson is also a Faculty Fellow for Inclusion and Equity in the Division of Diversity and Community Engagement at The University of Texas at Austin, where she assists the vice president and associate vice president with research on campus-wide diversity initiatives. Read more. Brian Fennig, Ph.D. Applied Physiology and Wellness Dr. Brian Fennig is a Senior Lecturer and joined SMU in the spring of 2001 in the Wellness Department, where he teaches both Personal Responsibility and Wellness and Individual Fitness. He earned a Bachelor of Kinesiology and Health Science in 1989 and a Master of Education in 1990 from Stephen F. Austin State University. He finished a second Master's Degree in Liberal Arts at SMU in 1997. With emphasis in myth, pop music, and modern music technology, he completed a Ph.D. in Humanities at the U.T. Dallas. Read more. Courtney Gedney Applied Physiology and Wellness Courtney Gedney is a Lecturer in the Department of Applied Physiology and Wellness. She earned her Master's degree in Counseling from Southern Methodist University, with an emphasis in group counseling, psychoeducation and individual therapy. Courtney is currently pursuing her professional counselor license (LPC-I) through the Texas State Board. Read more. Diane Gifford, Ph.D. Teaching and Learning Dr. Diane Gifford is a Clinical Assistant Professor in Department of Teaching and Learning. In 2013, she earned her a Ph.D. in Educational Research with a focus on literacy and, more specifically, specific reading comprehension deficits in children. During her doctoral studies at SMU, she was one of ten students chosen nationwide for the Council of Exceptional Children’s Division of Research Outstanding Doctoral Student Scholars for 2010. Read more. Francesca Go, Ph.D. Teaching and Learning Francesca Go received her Ph.D. in Special Education with emphasis on behavioral disorders, from the University of North Texas in 2005. Prior to that, she taught students with behavioral disorders in upper elementary and middle school. Dr. Go received her M.A. in Early Childhood Special Education from Vanderbilt University, and her B.A. in Government and History from the University of Notre Dame. Dr. Go's research and teaching interests center on behavior, reading, cognitive disabilities, autism, assessment and measurement. Read more. Donna Gober, Ed.D. Applied Physiology and Wellness Dr. Donna Gober joined the faculty of the Department of Applied Physiology and Wellness in the fall of 2008 after earning an Ed.D. in Educational Leadership with a cognate in Higher Education from Lamar University. She has been teaching full time in higher education since 1995. Dr. Gober earned a Master of Science in Wellness with minors in Exercise Physiology and Counseling from the University of Mississippi while employed as a graduate instructor in the Department of Health, Exercise Science, and Recreation Management. Read more. Thomas L. Hartsell, J.D. Dispute Resolution and Conflict Management Thomas L. Hartsell, Jr. is a lawyer and mediator in private practice with a specialty in family law and mental health practice issues. He has been active in the mediation field since 1986. He is a coauthor of "The Portable Lawyer for Mental Health Professionals, an A-Z Guide to Protecting your Clients, Your Practice and Yourself" and "The Portable Ethicist, An A-Z Guide to Responsible Practice" published by John Wiley & Sons and is a frequent lecturer to mental health professionals and organizations. Read more. Margaret Jacome, Ph.D. Counseling Graduate Studies Dr. Jacome received her doctorate in Marriage and Family Therapy from Texas Tech in 2005. Prior to becoming a therapist, Dr. Jacome taught for several years in secondary schools and served as a missionary for 10 years in Indonesia. She has bachelor's degrees in advertising art from Texas A & M Commerce and in secondary education/journalism from Southwest Texas State University. Dr. Jacome obtained her master's degree in Social Sciences from Azusa Pacific University in 1994 while residing overseas. Dr. Jacome is a licensed marriage and family therapist (LMFT) in Texas and an American Association for Marriage and Family Therapy Approved Supervisor. Read more. Johnitha Watkins Johnson, Ph.D. Teaching and Learning Dr. Johnitha Watkins Johnson earned her Ph.D. in Curriculum and Instruction with a focus on Urban Education in 2013. During her doctoral studies at Texas A&M University, she mentored pre-service and in-service teachers in various contexts, and began her research agenda, which focuses on equity in education. She also holds a M.S. in Juvenile Forensic Psychology from Prairie View A&M University. Read more. Ryan Kota, Ph.D. Applied Physiology and Wellness Ryan Kota, PhD, MBA is a Clinical Assistant Professor in the Sport Management Program. He completed his MBA at St. Bonaventure University, M.S. in Sport Management at Baylor University, and PhD in Sport Management at Florida State University. His research interests include sport cultural studies and consumer motivations with new technologies. Specifically to cultural studies, he is interested in exploring how sport organizations can address barriers to entry for underrepresented populations, while his interests in consumer motivations range from daily fantasy sport and eSports, to the new entertainment tactics implemented by minor league franchises. Read more. Jan Mallett, Ph.D. Teaching and Learning Dr. Jan Mallett received her Ph.D. in Educational Psychology from Texas A&M-Commerce (TAMU-C) in 2014. During more than 30 years as a lower elementary Montessori guide in a large, urban public school district, she also consulted in the areas of Montessori education, new teacher orientation, and adult basic education. Additionally, she served as school director in a Montessori charter school system and as a lower elementary teacher in private schools for children with learning difficulties. Read more. Brandon Mastromartino, Ph.D. Applied Physiology and Wellness Brandon Mastromartino is a Clinical Assistant Professor of Sport Management in the Department of Applied Physiology and Wellness. He completed a Ph.D. and M.S. in Sport Management from the University of Georgia and a B.A. from the University of Western Ontario in Media & Communications. Brandon has extensive experience in the sport industry, working with various sport organizations and corporate clients in market analysis, sponsorship opportunities, social media strategy, program development, and ROI measurement. He has worked with sport organizations such as the Atlanta Braves, Florida Panthers, National Lacrosse League, New York Mets, New York Rangers, and the University of Georgia Athletics. At SMU, Brandon teaches Sport Marketing, Revenue in Sport, and Contemporary Issues in Sport Management. Read more. Nancy Montgomery, Ed,D, Teaching and Learning Nancy Vincent Montgomery began teaching in the Simmons School in January of 2008. She serves as a Clinical Professor, teaching English as a Second Language (ESL) methods courses. Her career in education has included teaching in Illinois, Texas, and Jakarta, Indonesia and serving as an administrator in the areas of reading and curriculum. Before coming to SMU, she served as program coordinator of ESL special projects at TEA's Region 10 Education Service Center. Read more. Megan Murphy, Ph.D. Applied Physiology and Wellness Dr. Megan Murphy joined the faculty at SMU in the fall of 2011 as a Clinical Assistant Professor. Dr. Murphy completed her Ph.D. in Integrative Physiology at the University of North Texas Health Science Center (UNTHSC) in 2008. While at UNTHSC, Dr. Murphy served as a SCORE and MKITS fellow volunteering in ninth grade science classes in the Fort Worth school system with the goal of increasing the students' interest in and awareness of science as a career. Read more. Dawson Orr, Ph.D. Education Policy and Leadership Dr. Dawson Orr earned his bachelor’s degree in public administration and social studies from the University of Alabama in 1975. He continued his studies at the University of Alabama, completing a master’s degree in administration and planning in 1976. Dr. Orr went on to earn his doctorate in educational leadership from the University of Texas. Read more. Chalie Patarapichayatham, Ph.D. Education Policy and Leadership Dr. Chalie Patarapichayatham is a Research Assistant Professor in Simmons School. She received a Ph.D. degree in Educational Measurement and Evaluation from Chulalongkorn University in Thailand in 2010. Read more. John Potter Dispute Resolution and Conflict Management John Potter, O.D., M.A., is an active practitioner in dispute resolution and conflict management. He has mediated more than 3,000 disputes including many in the health care field. He received a Doctor of Optometry from Indiana University and an M.A. in Dispute Resolution from SMU. He is a Fellow of the American Academy of Optometry and a Distinguished Clinical Scholar at the State University of New York’s State College of Optometry. Read more. Abigail Pruitt, Ed.D. Teaching and Learning Abigail Pruitt, Ed.D., serves as a Clinical Professor in the department of teaching and Learning. Dr. Pruitt earned a she earned a B.A. in Political Science and Italian Area Studies in 1994. She teaches a variety of undergraduate and graduate teacher education courses with a focus on applied linguistics, cross-cultural communication, and human development. Read more. Amy Richardson, Ed.D. Teaching and Learning Dr. Amy Richardson is a Clinical Associate Professor in the Department of Teaching and Learning at the Annette Simmons School of Education and Human Development and the Director of Educator Preparation and the Scholarship of Teaching. Prior to earning her Ed.D. in Educational Leadership from Southern Methodist University, she was a secondary social studies and English teacher and a research assistant for the New Jersey Center for Character Education. Her areas of expertise include teacher education, social studies education, and the use of technology, specifically mixed reality simulations, to support teacher learning and development. Amy is principal investigator on the Raising Texas Teachers grant funded by Raise Your Hand Texas. Read more. Laura Robinson-Doyle Applied Physiology and Wellness Laura Robinson-Doyle, M.S., is a lecturer in the Sport Performance Leadership (SPL) program. She is completing her Ph.D. in Health Promotion and Kinesiology at Texas Woman’s University, with an emphasis in population and global health. Laura’s research interests include physical (in)activity, food insecurity, vulnerable populations (to include military and homeless), and global and community health programming. Laura earned her Master’s degree in Counseling and Human Development from Texas Woman’s University, with an emphasis in addictions, and adolescent and young adult counseling. Read more. Karla del Rosal, Ph.D. Teaching and Learning Karla del Rosal, Ph.D. is a Clinical Assistant Professor in the Department of Teaching and Learning at the Annette Simmons School of Education and Human Development. She teaches graduate and undergraduate courses on bilingual education, ESL instruction, student diversity, and classroom assessment. Karla del Rosal has a Ph.D. in Educational Equity and Cultural Diversity from the University of Colorado Boulder. Her areas of expertise are teacher education, second language acquisition, cultural responsiveness, and formative assessment. She also has specialized in best practices for English learners in Mathematics and Science classrooms. Read more. Robert Rouse, Ph.D. Teaching and Learning Dr. Rouse joined the Simmons School after completing a Ph.D. in Mathematics and Science Education at Vanderbilt University’s Peabody College. At Vanderbilt, Dr. Rouse worked with pre-service and in-service teachers in various roles, including as a graduate teaching assistant, university field mentor, and course co-instructor. Read more. Edita Ruzgyte, Ph.D. Counseling Graduate Studies Dr. Edita Ruzgyte is a couples and marriage therapist and Licensed Professional Counselor Supervisor. After coming to the United States from Lithuania, Dr. Ruzgyte received a Ph.D in family therapy. In her dissertation she explored the cultural and social aspects of relationships and sexuality. She continues to do research examining social influences in relationship dynamics and sexual expression in post- Soviet Union countries. Read more. Brandy Schumann, Ph.D. Counseling Graduate Studies Dr. Brandy Schumann is a Licensed Professional Counselor-Supervisor, Registered Play Therapy-Supervisor, National Certified Counselor, Professor at Southern Methodist University (SMU), and the President of the Texas Association for Play Therapy. Dr. Schumann holds a Doctoral degree in Counseling, with a specialty in Play Therapy from the top ranked play therapy program in the world, which is at the University of North Texas. Read more. Milan Sevak, Ed.D. Education Policy and Leadership Milan Sevak has served in school and district roles in a variety of settings. Most recently, Milan worked as Assistant Superintendent of Strategic Leadership in Dallas ISD, where he led the District’s efforts to reform teacher evaluation, compensation, and support systems. Previously, he served as a Division Assistant Superintendent who was responsible for student outcomes in 41 schools that enrolled 30,000 students. Read more. Misty Solt, Ph.D. Counseling Graduate Studies Misty Solt, Ph.D., is a Licensed Professional Counselor-Supervisor as well as a National Certified Counselor. Dr. Solt is a Registered Play Therapy Supervisor and received her Ph.D. from the University of North Texas in 2003 where she was an Adjunct Professor in the Counseling Department. Dr. Solt has served as the director for SMU's Center for Family Counseling from 2008-2011, and taught courses in the area of Practicum and Child Counseling. Read more. Ashley Tull, Ed.D. Education Policy and Leadership Dr. Ashley Tull serves as a Clinical Professor and as the Director for the Ed.D. in Higher Education Program. Previously, he served as the Director of Assessment and Strategic Initiatives for the Division of Student Affairs at SMU. He has held administration and teaching roles at Tarleton State University, the University of Texas at Arlington, University of Arkansas–Fayetteville, and Florida State University. Read more. Terra Wagner, Ph.D. Counseling Graduate Studies Dr. Terra Wagner received her PhD in Counseling from the University of North Texas, and is a Licensed Professional Counselor in the state of Texas. Dr. Wagner primarily teaches practicum, group counseling, and diverse communities as a Clinical Assistant Professor. Additionally, she serves as the Clinic Director, overseeing operations at all SMU counseling clinics. Read more. Bradley Warren Applied Physiology and Wellness BJ “Coach” Warren has been with the Wellness Department since January of 2013. Previously, B.J taught at Collin College, West Virginia University, and various middle school and high schools. Read more. Christine Woodbury, Ph.D. Teaching and Learning Dr. Christine Woodbury is a Clinical Assistant Professor and the Director of the Learning Therapy Program at Southern Methodist University. She holds a B.S. in Elementary Education from Western Illinois University and M.S. in Special Education from National University. Her Ph.D. is in Special Education from Texas Woman’s University. Prior to her appointment as clinical professor and director in the Department of Teaching and Learning in the Simmons School of Education and Human Development, Dr. Woodbury was an assistant professor and program coordinator of the Educational Diagnostician program at Houston Baptist University. Dr. Woodbury has 15+ years of experience as a general education teacher, special education teacher, educational diagnostician, and university professor. Read more. Our Faculty Faculty Research Publications & Presentations Contact Simmons Contact Us 214-768-7587 sehd@smu.edu Visit Us Annette Caldwell Simmons Hall Southern Methodist University 3101 University Boulevard Dallas, Texas 75205 Connect with Us Contact Us Maps and Directions Legal Disclosures © Southern Methodist University, PO Box 750100, Dallas, TX 75275 facebook twitter