Skip navigation Find: A to Z Index People Directory Learn More: About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life Information For: Current Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Information For: Current Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Brown University Safety at Brown Brown About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life A to Z Index People Directory m.Brown.edu News Events Visit Campus Life Map Directory Brown Apps Sitemap About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life A to Z Index People Directory Safety at Brown Bear Tips Program Safety at Brown Bear Tips Program About Bear Tips Bear Tips Coins: "Good to Get, Great to Give!" What Can Bear Tips Coins Get Me? Featured Safety Tip: Smartphone Safety More Bear Tips Videos About Bear Tips Brown Computer and Information Services (CIS) has partnered with the Department of Public Safety (DPS) to offer Bear Tips, a new and innovative media project that seeks to engage the community in safety awareness through short, fun safety videos. Each video module highlights a relevant safety message and resource that Public Safety would like to reinforce among community members. With Bruno's help, students and staff are reminded to stop, think and bear in mind safe behaviors and safety resources that are readily available to them at Brown. Bear Tips Coins are Great to Get and Good to Give! In an effort to make the virtual Bear Tips learning experience applicable to everyday life here at Brown, we have created Bear Tips coins for distribution to incentivize the behaviors promoted in the video series. Coins are also useful outreach incentives that members of DPS will distribute to students and staff. There are a number of ways a student or staff member can earn Bear Tips Coins to include, but not limited to: Attend a Public Safety sponsored event/program Get a Safewalk across campus Stop by a DPS resource table and connect with our staff Register property with the Crime Prevention Unit, Operation ID Program A Brown DPS Officer spots you making a ‘street smart’ choice (i.e. securing your bicycle with a U-shaped lock, paying attention to your surroundings, etc.) What Can Bear Tips Coins Get Me? Yes, Bear Tips Coins have cash value! There is certainly a benefit to accumulating Bear Tips Coins. A single Bear Tips Coin has a $1.00 value towards any general merchandise in the Brown Bookstore. So the more Bear Tips Coins you earn from Public Safety, the greater the discount off of some of the Bookstore's most popular items! Faculty, staff and students can attribute a $1 value per Bear Tip Coin and apply towards their dining purchase in the campus center Blue Room. During the academic year Public Safety will offer various opportunities for you to cash in your Bear Tips Coins through giveaways to earn items such as gift certificates, dining bucks, and more! Follow Public Safety on Twitter and like them on Facebook to stay informed about how you can cash your coins in. Brown Bookstore Bear Tips discounts may vary. Bear Tips - Smartphone Safety Bruno says: Having your phone out while walking at night can make you an easy target for theft. Watch this video to learn more about walking safely. More Bear Tips Videos Introducing Bear Tips - featuring Chief Porter and Bruno The Brown Department of Public Safety Chief of Police, Colonel Mark Porter, and Brown's very own Bruno introduce the new Bear Tips Program. — (0:28) Ride Safely with Brown's OnCall Shuttle Bruno says: Travel safely at night! Remember to get on the B.U.S. and ride the OnCall Shuttle. — (2:05) See Something? Say Something! Bruno says: If you see something, say something! Keep yourself and your fellow Brown community members safe by reporting any suspicious activity to DPS. — (0:00) Using Safewalk Bruno says: There's always safety in numbers and Safewalk is just a phone call away! — (2:01) Campus Safety 101 Department of Public Safety's "Campus Safety 101" video, a crime prevention video every new student should see! — (11:36) Resources A to Z Index Career Opportunities Make a Gift People Directory Related Departments Department of Public Safety Office of Student Life Counseling and Psychological Services Transportation Office Institutional Diversity Health Services Environmental Health and Safety Stay Safe About Safety at Brown Brown Guardian onCall Shuttle Safewalk Personal Safety Alarm (PAL) Brown Ready Health Education Brown University Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-1000 Maps & Directions / Contact Us / Accessibility © 2022 Brown University Connect: [email protected] Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram iTunes U Google+ LinkedIn RSS Futurity