Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Fogelman College - Professional MBA Welcome Admissions Tuition, Fees, & Financial Aid Current MBA Students Faculty FAQs FCBE Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact Current MBA Students MBA without concentration (36 credit hours) MBA with Concentration (42 credit hours) Dual Degree Programs Other Resources Take Action See Other MBA Options Apply Now Contact Us Return to FCBE Follow Us Online Facebooktwitter Home Professional MBA Current MBA Students Academic Information On this page, you will be able to find the following information: Course Requirements for your MBA degree Listing of MBA Concentrations Offered Dual Degrees Course Offerings (current and tentative) Resources for New and Continuing Students Career Development Opportunities Links to important Calendars Graduation Requirements Graduation Instructions Curriculum Requirements Course requirements vary depending on whether or not you will obtain a concentration. Both the MBA with a concentration and the MBA without a concentration require taking the same 10 Core courses, but Elective requirements differ. Click on your degree below for details. MBA Without Concentration (36 credit hours) MBA with a Concentration (42 credit hours) Dual Degrees JD / MBA PharmD / MBA MHA / MBA Back to top of page. Concentrations If you are interested in specializing in a particular area, you may add a concentration to your MBA degree. We offer the concentrations listed below. Applied Economic Analytics Business Economics Business Information Assurance Business Project Management Data Analytics for Management Data Analytics for Technology Engineering Management Finance Healthcare Management Supply Chain Management Taxation Each concentration has specific course requirements. For more details, please visit our 42-credit-hour MBA page. Back to top of page. Course Offerings Current Course Offerings See Professional MBA tentative course offerings for the upcoming semesters. Face-to-face course sections are labeled "001", "002", etc. Online (asynchronous) course sections are labeled "M50", "M51", "M52", etc. For specific course descriptions, please visit the Graduate Catalog website. Tentative Course Offerings per Semester Course offerings vary from semester to semester. The chart below shows tentative course offerings based on offerings from previous years, and is subject to change. "OMBA" denotes online asynchronous classes (approved for UM Global), and "PMBA" denotes face-to face or hybrid (HYB) classes. MBA Core Course Semester Fall Spring Summer ACCT 7080 - Financial and Managerial Accounting for Managers OMBA PMBA OMBA PMBA OMBA BA 7501 - Leadership and Negotiation OMBA PMBA OMBA PMBA BA 7503 - Business Analytics for Managers (prerequisite: SCMS 7110) OMBA PMBA OMBA PMBA ECON 7100 - Economics for the Global Executive OMBA PMBA OMBA PMBA OMBA PMBA FIR 7155 - Global Financial Management OMBA PMBA OMBA PMBA OMBA MKTG 7140 - Global Strategic Marketing OMBA PMBA OMBA PMBA MIS 7650 - Information Systems in the Global Enterprise OMBA PMBA OMBA PMBA OMBA SCMS 7313 - Supply Chain Operations Management OMBA PMBA OMBA PMBA OMBA SCMS 7110 - Intro to Business Analytics OMBA PMBA OMBA PMBA OMBA MGMT 7160 - Global Strategic Management (capstone) OMBA PMBA OMBA PMBA OMBA Suggested Course Load You can complete your MBA degree at your own pace, making sure you have all the time you need to make the most out of your experience. On average, for every 1 credit hour in which you enroll, you can expect to spend 2-3 hours outside of class studying. 1 course (3 credit hours) => 6-9 hours of study time per week Additional Considerations for Choosing Courses MBA with Concentration Make yourself familiar with your concentration-specific course requirements. Concentration-specific courses may not be offered every year. Concentration-specific courses may not be offered every semester. As soon as you decide which concentration you wish to complete, contact your advisor to make a plan to take your concentration courses. Dual Degrees Make yourself familiar with course offerings that fit your primary degree schedule. Contact your advisor to develop a completion plan for your MBA courses in advance. Back to top of page. Career Development Opportunities The Professional Development Center (PDC), housed in the Fogelman College of Business and Economics, offers a host of resources for career growth: Resume Building Resources: this includes templates you can download. These templates have been tested with resume screening tools used by employers. Career Training Resources: here you can work on your interviewing skills, presentation skills, learn about workplace ethics, among others. Networking Events: the PDC organizes and plans a host of networking and learning events to support you and your career planning throughout the semester. Fogelman Internship and Career Network (FIN): once you join FIN, you will gain access to internships and job opportunities with companies in varying industries inside and outside of Memphis. Ready to take the next step? Access the PDC Event Calendar. Join the Fogelman Internship and Career Network (FIN). Back to top of page. Calendars Below are the chief academic calendars for each semester, published by the Registrar's Office with input from other key University offices. Links to the Graduate School's graduation deadlines are also published here for your convenience. Registrar's Calendars Fee Payment Calendars Graduate School Calendar Back to top of page. Graduation Requirements You must be enrolled in the term in which you intend to graduate (Fall, Spring or Summer). File for graduation before the stipulated Graduate School deadlines. Click here to see Graduate School deadlines. Fulfill the MBA curriculum requirements. Click here to see curriculum requirements. Fulfill the GPA requirements (below). If appropriate, submit a Course Substitution form. For details about this form, contact your advisor. GPA Requirements Grades of "D" or "F" are computed in the GPA, but not counted toward degree credit requirements. No more than seven (7) hours of "C+," "C," or "C-" will be counted toward degree requirements. Your cumulative GPA must be at least 3.0 on all graduate work undertaken at The University of Memphis, whether or not the courses count toward your degree. Visit the Graduate Catalog for more information. The next section will guide you through the graduation process. Further questions regarding graduation procedures should be addressed with your program Advisor. Graduation Instructions If you're planning to graduate this semester, please follow the steps below: Apply to Graduate: Log-in to MyMemphis. Click on the "My Degree" tab. Click "Read Prerequisites for Applying for Graduation" and read. This is under Commencement and Graduation ("Step 1"). Click "Apply to Graduate" under Commencement and Graduation ("Step 2"). Select the current term. Select your program(s) and submit. Complete Candidacy Form for a Master's Degree: Log-in to MyMemphis. Follow these line-by-line instructions on how to fill the Candidacy Form for your MBA degree. Your unofficial transcript can be found in MyMemphis. Copy the course information directly into the Candidacy Form. The courses you copy on your Candidacy Form must satisfy the GPA requirements. Fill in the signature blanks as follows: Student Your full name University of Memphis email address Major Professor or Advisor Emily Smith (if your last name starts with A - L) emelonas@memphis.edu April Jones (if your last name starts with M - Z) Jhrris12@memphis.edu Graduate Studies Coordinator Dr. Carmen Astorne cmstrnfg@memphis.edu College Director of Graduate Studies Dr. Kurt Kraiger kkraiger@memphis.edu For Departmental Records, leave blank. Complete the Diploma Mailing and Cap and Gown Form: Log-in to MyMemphis. Click on the "My Degree" tab. Click "Diploma Mailing and Cap and Gown" Form, under "Commencement and Graduation" ("Step 3"). Verification and Program Form: This form will be sent to you from the commencement office. Check your University email ("Step 4"). Back to top of page. Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 11/18/21 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.