Skip to main content Updates on the campus response to coronavirus (Covid-19) Last Updated: Thursday, August 27th, 2020 at 7:01 PM School of Literature, Media, and Communication Ivan Allen College of Liberal Arts Main Menu School Our Mission Diversity Facilities News and Events Overload and Permits FAQ Timeline & History Humanistic Perspectives in a Technological World Find Us! Programs Degree Programs B.S. Literature, Media, and Communication B.S. Computational Media M.S. Digital Media M.S. in Global Media and Cultures M.S. Human-Computer Interaction Ph.D. Digital Media Writing and Communication Communication Center Minors Master Course List People Administrators Faculty Staff Faculty Emeriti Brittain Fellows Research Centers and Labs Featured Projects LMC @ SMARTech Publications Arts Arts @ Tech Overview Arts in LMC Visual Featured Students Cinema@Tech CoLab DramaTech LMCFilms Poetry @ Tech SciFi @ Tech Prospective Students Faculty Resources Alumni Alumni Overview Resources Events Alumni Profiles Apply Give Visit Search Search Search Site Select a View: Administrators Faculty Brittain Fellows Faculty Emeriti Staff Change View Breadcrumb Home People Andre Brock Associate Professor Member Of: School of Literature, Media, and Communication Email Address:andre.brock@lmc.gatech.edu Overview André L. Brock joins the School of Literature, Media, and Communication as an associate professor. He is an interdisciplinary scholar with an M.A. in English and Rhetoric from Carnegie Mellon University and a Ph.D. in Library and Information Science from the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign. His scholarship includes published articles on racial representations in videogames, black women and weblogs, whiteness, blackness, and digital technoculture, as well as groundbreaking research on Black Twitter. His article “From the Blackhand Side: Twitter as a Cultural Conversation” challenged social science and communication research to confront the ways in which the field preserved “a color-blind perspective on online endeavors by normalizing Whiteness and othering everyone else” and sparked a conversation that continues, as Twitter, in particular, continues to evolve. Courses LMC-2100: Intro to STAC LMC-2400: Intro to Media Studies LMC-3206: Communication & Culture LMC-3306: Science, Tech & Race LMC-3404: Social Media LMC-6314: Design of Networked Medi LMC-6316: Historical Approahces Di Facebook Instagram LinkedIn Twitter School of Literature, Media, and Communication Skiles Classroom Building 686 Cherry Street Atlanta, GA 30332-0165 Phone: 404-894-2730 Fax: 404-894-1287 Map and Directions Website Feedback Ivan Allen College of Liberal Arts Programs B.S. Computational Media B.S. Literature, Media, and Communication M.S. Digital Media M.S. Human-Computer Interaction M.S. in Global Media and Cultures Ph.D. Digital Media College of Liberal Arts Resources Office of the Dean College Leadership College At a Glance Visit the College of Liberal Arts Faculty / Staff Resources Georgia Tech Resources Campus Offices Visitor Parking News Center Campus Calendar Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue Atlanta, GA 30332 +1 404.894.2000 Campus Map Directory Employment Emergency Information Legal & Privacy Information Human Trafficking Notice Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Hazing Public Disclosures Accessibility Accountability Accreditation ©2022 Georgia Institute of Technology