Skip to main content iastate.edu Index A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z Directory Maps Safety Sign Ons Iowa State University Campus Climate Menu Toggle Search Toggle Search News Reporting system How to Report Process FAQ Incidents Resources Policies Climate Survey 2017 Project History and Press Climate Study Documents Climate Study Teams Implementation Efforts New Initiatives FAQ Pre-Survey FAQ Data Campus Climate Reporting System The Campus Climate Reporting System (CCRS) comprises members of the ISU community -- faculty and staff -- who meet regularly throughout the year to plan and implement strategies for developing and facilitating the implementation of appropriate responses to campus climate incidents -- such as bias, harassment and discrimination -- impacting the Iowa State University community. The team meets quarterly to discuss the broader campus climate and is able to communicate in real-time as necessary. Along with determining the appropriate outreach and action steps needed to take after an incident occurs on campus, the team also notifies the community when appropriate. Aid to those who have been affected is offered through outreaches conducted by members of the CCRS. You are welcome to contact members of the team if you feel that you have been the target of a bias incident, harassment, hate crime, or discrimination. Or, if you prefer, incidents can be reported directly via the Incident Reporting Form. Additional resources and an FAQ are available. Have you experienced a campus climate incident that has impacted you, and you need assistance in connecting with available resources and services? Do you have concerns about a campus climate incident, but you are not sure what to do? If so, please contact the Campus Climate ReportingTeam by submitting your concerns using the online Campus Climate Incident Reporting Form. If you prefer not to report the incident via the online form, other options are available during regular business hours (8 a.m.-5 p.m., Monday-Friday). Iowa State University students, faculty, staff and campus visitors are encouraged to contact Diversity, Equity and Inclusion at 515-294-8840 or vpdeioffice@iastate.edu to report an incident and/or schedule an appointment with a staff member. Reports will be acknowledged within three business days. Anyone encountering a situation that requires immediate police assistance, medical or other emergency services should call the Iowa State University Police Department (ISUPD) at 515-294-4428 or 911. Partners The Campus Climate Reporting System (CCRS) includes a core team of members who broadly represent the University and convene ad hoc teams as the situation demands. The current CCRS representatives are listed in the table below. Department/Office Representative Title Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Sharon Perry Fantini Vice President for Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Equal Opportunity Carl Wells Interim Director of Equal Opportunity Dean of Students Sharron Evans Dean of Students Residence Pete Englin Assistant Vice President for Student Affairs and Director of Residence Residence Virginia Speight Associate Director of Residence Life ISU Police Michael Newton Associate Vice President for Public Safety and Chief of ISU Police Senior Vice President and Provost Dawn Bratsch-Prince Associate Provost for Faculty University Counsel Michael Norton University Counsel University Human Resources Andrea Little Manager of Employee and Labor Relations Strategic Relations and Communications Angie Hunt News Service Director Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Campus Climate 2680 Beardshear Hall Ames, IA 50011-2103 vpdeioffice@iastate.edu 515-294-8840 phone Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube Copyright © 1995-2022 Iowa State University of Science and Technology All rights reserved Non-discrimination Policy Privacy Policy Digital Access & Accessibility Consumer information