Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Reporting Automobile Accidents Online Training Frequently Asked Questions E-Mail to Campus Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact Vehicle Accident Reporting Have you had an automobile accident with a third party while at work for the University? See these important instructions. PreviousNext Take Action Automobile Accident Reporting Instructions Damage Notification Card Environmental Health and Safety University Car Rentals Follow Us Online InstagramFacebooktwitter Home Reporting Automobile Accidents Automobile Accident Reporting Process Whether driving a state-owned, rental, or personal automobile on University business, if you are involved in an auto accident with a member of the general public or a vehicle not owned by an agency of the State of Tennessee, the accident must be reported to State of Tennessee Auto Accident Call Center. Automobile Accident Reporting Instructions and a Damage Notification Card are available in each UofM automobile for your use in the event of an accident. All employees, volunteers, students, and supervisors of students driving on University business must follow this process. What to Do in the Event of an Applicable Accident Occupied Vehicles Don't leave the scene. Be prepared to communicate ALL details of the incident to the State's adjuster. Call emergency services (911 or police non-emergency number) as needed. Take at least 4 photos of both vehicles, license plates, parking situation, insurance card for other party, and any notable unrelated damages. Include photo of the other party if applicable. Call the State of Tennessee Auto Accident Call Center immediately at 855.253.0629 to report the incident, then call your supervisor and follow all applicable UofM procedures. Do not admit fault in the accident or promise coverage or reimbursement to anyone. Unoccupied Vehicles Complete a Damage Notification Card and leave it on the unoccupied vehicle. Call the State of TN Auto Accident Call Center immediately at 855.253.0629 with date, time, and location of the incident, as well as any additional information you may have. Take photos of both vehicles, as well as the license plate and VIN tag of the other vehicle (on the driver-side dash, near the windshield). Additional Reporting Requirements If the accident is on-campus or involves a University-owned vehicle, report it to Police Services at 901.678.4357 (Shelby County campuses) or 731.425.1942 (Lambuth Campus). If you or another UofM employee is injured: Notify the Workplace Injury and First Notice of Loss Call Center at 1.866.245.8588. See the Workers Compensation Web page for more information. File a First Report of Illness of Injury Report. Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 3/15/22 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.