Search | Directories | Reference Tools UW Home > Discover UW > Student Guide UW Bothell Course Descriptions UW Tacoma Course Descriptions Glossary COLLEGE OF ARTS & SCIENCES AMERICAN ETHNIC STUDIES TAGALOG Detailed course offerings (Time Schedule) are available for Spring Quarter 2022 Summer Quarter 2022 Autumn Quarter 2022 TAGLG 101 Basic Tagalog (5) Introduces the Filipino language and culture. Students use the language through speaking, listening, reading, and writing at the novice level. Examines basic language structures, appropriate forms of address, and vocabulary for communication. First in a sequence of three Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: TAGLG 101 TAGLG 102 Basic Tagalog (5) Introduces the Filipino language and culture. Students use the language through speaking, listening, reading, and writing at the novice level. Examines basic language structures, appropriate forms of address, and vocabulary for communication. Second in a sequence of three. Prerequisite: TAGLG 101. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: TAGLG 102 TAGLG 103 Basic Tagalog (5) Introduces the Filipino language and culture. Students use the language through speaking, listening, reading, and writing at the novice level. Examines basic language structures, appropriate forms of address, and vocabulary for communication. Third in a sequence of three. Prerequisite: TAGLG 102. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: TAGLG 103 TAGLG 134 Intensive Basic Tagalog (15) Intensive introduction to the Filipino language and culture. Uses language through speaking, listening, reading, and writing at the novice level. Explores language structures, appropriate forms of address, and vocabulary for communication. View course details in MyPlan: TAGLG 134 TAGLG 201 Intermediate Tagalog (5) VLPA Provides further reinforcement and practice of the lessons learned in basic Tagalog. Improves the communicative competence of the student by teaching the social rules along with the linguistic rules. First in a sequence of three. Prerequisite: either TAGLG 103 or TAGLG 134. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: TAGLG 201 TAGLG 202 Intermediate Tagalog (5) VLPA Provides further reinforcement and practice of the lessons learned in basic Tagalog. Improves the communicative competence of the student by teaching the social rules along with the linguistic rules. Second in a sequence of three. Prerequisite: TAGLG 201. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: TAGLG 202 TAGLG 203 Intermediate Tagalog (5) VLPA Provides further reinforcement and practice of the lessons learned in basic Tagalog. Improves the communicative competence of the student by teaching the social rules along with the linguistic rules. Third in a sequence of three Prerequisite: TAGLG 202. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: TAGLG 203 TAGLG 301 Advanced Tagalog (5) VLPA Reading of contemporary Filipino (Tagalog) prose, poetry, and drama. Advanced conversation and composition. First in a sequence of three. Prerequisite: TAGLG 203. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: TAGLG 301 TAGLG 302 Advanced Tagalog (5) VLPA Reading of contemporary Filipino (Tagalog) prose, poetry, and drama. Advanced conversation and composition. Second in a sequence of three. Prerequisite: TAGLG 301. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: TAGLG 302 TAGLG 303 Advanced Tagalog (5) VLPA Reading of contemporary Filipino (Tagalog) prose, poetry, and drama. Advanced conversation and composition. Third in a sequence of three. Prerequisite: TAGLG 302. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: TAGLG 303 Office of the University Registrar registrar@uw.edu Modified: May 30, 2022