Covid-19: Get the latest updates here Apply to JTS Contact Campus Life Alumni Get Email Updates Donate Now Search About Higher Education Emergency Relief Fund Leadership History JTS and Israel Conservative Judaism Offices & Resources Policies Accreditation Visit JTS Admissions List College Admissions Davidson School Admissions Rabbinical School Admissions Gershon Kekst Graduate School Admissions H. L. Miller Cantorial School Admissions Take a Virtual Tour Academics Academics School List College The William Davidson School The Rabbinical School The Gershon Kekst Graduate School H. L. Miller Cantorial School Faculty & Scholars Faculty & Scholars Center & Institutes Center for Pastoral Education Block / Kolker Center for Spiritual Arts The Hendel Center for Ethics and Justice Milstein Center for Interreligious Dialogue Louis Finkelstein Institute for Religious & Social Studies Research Institutes Summer Programs Nishma Summer Sessions Summer Hebrew Language Courses Professional Training Professional Training CONTINUING EDUCATION FOR CLERGY The Rabbinic Training Institute (RTI) Summer Rabbinic Learning Conference Online Learning for Rabbis and Cantors FOR JEWISH EDUCATORS Day School Leadership Training Institute (DSLTI) Jewish Early Childhood Education Leadership Institute (JECELI) Ivriyon: Hebrew Immersion Institute for Day School Educators Jewish Day School Standards and Benchmarks FOR OTHER PROFESSIONALS NAASE Week of Study Community Learning Community Learning ONLINE Live Online Classes JTS Torah Online BEYOND THE CAMPUS JTS Learning in Your Community Courses and Curricula LEARNING EVENTS Public Lectures and Events FOR 8TH-12TH GRADERS Prozdor Teen Learning Library About The Library Letter from the Librarian Library Services The New JTS Library Library Programs and Events Library Online Exhibits Special Collections JTS Library Membership Email a Librarian News & Events News Events Academic Calendar Campus Life Student Services Residence LIfe Counseling Center Health Committee on Sexuality and Gender Campus Life Students at JTS join a welcoming, diverse community of scholars and leaders who are passionate about Jewish learning and Jewish living. Your education here is about more than what you study in the classroom: it’s about what you learn on campus and throughout New York City—from residence life to Israel programming to community service. Get Involved Our Office of Student Life provides opportunities and programs for students at all levels to come together to observe and celebrate Jewish living, to enrich the experience we share as a spiritual and academic community, and to contribute to the vibrant, creative atmosphere at JTS. Participate in community service: The Va’ad Gemilut Hasadim: Susan and Jack Rudin Center for Community Outreach coordinates a variety of ways for you help others, at home and around the world. Attend religious programming: Jewish life at JTS is vibrant and engaging. You are welcome to participate in daily services as well as Shabbat dinners, holiday celebrations, and more. Become a student leader: Each of our five schools has an active student organization—run by student leaders—to plan activities, represent interests of students, and build community within each school and throughout JTS. Your Home on Campus We want the JTS campus to feel like home. Live at JTS: When you live at JTS, you live alongside students who bring with them a range of experiences and backgrounds, interests and cultures. Our residence life staff provides programs, outreach, and more to make sure students get the most out of living at JTS and exploring the exciting Morningside Heights neighborhood. Student Services We provide support to help make your experience at JTS as comfortable, healthy, and productive as possible. Health Services: Full-time students are automatically enrolled in the Columbia Health Program, giving you full access to their excellent care and resources. Counseling Center: The Counseling Center provides short-term psychotherapy, referrals to longer-term therapists off campus, educational workshops, and more to support your emotional well-being. Registrar: Our Registrar’s Office is available to help with issues and questions related to courses, registration, grades, and transcripts. Find out more about JTS student services SHARE THIS PAGE Send Me Admissions Information We'll send information about our academics and programs directly to your in-box. First Name(Required) Last Name(Required) Email(Required) Phone School(s) of interest List College The William Davidson School The Rabbinical School Gershon Kekst Graduate School H. L. Miller Cantorial School and College of Jewish Music Potential Enrollment Year Please Select One202120222023202420252026 Comments or Questions RESOURCES Current Students Faculty & Scholars CONNECT WITH US Get Email Updates Visit Give Social Media © The Jewish Theological Seminary All Rights Reserved | בית המדרש ללימודי יהדות 3080 Broadway, New York, NY 10027 Privacy Policy x Share This Page From Name(Required) From Email(Required) To Email(Required) Message