Skip to main content Search form Search < Back to Columbia Public Health Search Menu Information For Faculty & Staff Search You are here Home Faculty & Staff Research Resources (R2) Winter Storm Update/Impacts to Campus and Services Last Updated 12:50pm Fri May 6 See Coronavirus Updates for information on campus protocols. Teaching & Learning School Directory Administrative Offices Research Resources (R2) Toolkit HR/Benefits Funding Graduate Students Grants Investigators Reports Sessions COVID-19 T32s Funding Graduate Students Grants Investigators Reports Sessions COVID-19 T32s Research Resources (R2) About Us In 2013, leadership of the Research Resources Office was taken over by Dr. Pam Factor-Litvak, Associate Dean for Research Resources and Professor of Epidemiology. The Research Resources (R2) Office supports Mailman School researchers in the development and preparation of grant applications. The office helps researchers identify appropriate funding opportunities, develop project ideas, organize, edit and prepare grant applications, and arranges for internal review and feedback on applications prior to submission. R2 also provides training in grantsmanship, research management, and professional development-related issues. This website section provides access to grant-related resources that include: Templates and guidance documents for grant proposal preparation A library of sample grants and sample grant components Updates on current research-related news Information about current and future funding opportunities A schedule of upcoming R2 events and information sessions and materials from past events. Trainings and Information Sessions The R2 Office sponsors periodic training, information sessions and workshops on research, as well as on professional development-related topics. These sessions are generally small and informal. Training topics include grant-preparation, management, and other professional development-related issues. Targeted Funding Searches The R2 Office performs targeted funding searches for Mailman School researchers based on their individual area(s) of interest. Please ckk7 [at] columbia.edu (contact us) to receive targeted funding announcements via email. One-on-One Grant Planning and Preparation Services Investigators are invited to contact the R2 Office to schedule a one-on-one meeting for assistance with any aspect of their grant preparation, including help with finding funding or developing a timetable for proposal preparation and submission. Additional Resources Reserachers can access additional sites that offer potentially valuable resources and information.To learn more, please visit the following sites. Columbia University-Related Links Columbia University Office of the Executive Vice President for Research Access important information about conducting research at Columbia University. Columbia University Medical Center Institutional Review Board Provides access to additional research-related information, including policies, education and training information, information about IRB consultation hours, and information about submitting a protocol. Columbia University Office of Sponsored Projects Administration This site provides institutional information about Columbia University that is required on most grant applications, including: the University's legal name, address, contact information, DUNS numbers and taxpayer ID numbers, all of which are required when completing a grant proposal. Grant-Related Links Enhancing Peer Review at NIH Foundation Center Blog Grants.gov Blog Medical Writing, Editing, and Grantsmanship Blog Includes insider insight into funding opportunities and the grantsmanship process. NIH Standing Study Sections Other Helpful Links ASPH (Association of Schools of Public Health) This site offers a wealth of information, including grant opportunities. SF424 (R&R) Application and Electronic Submission Information Access instruction guides for preparing electronic grant applications using the SF424 (R&R) application forms. Interdisciplinary Science Many of today’s most critical public health challenges are too complex to be addressed from the perspective of a single discipline. Interdisciplinary approaches hold great promise; exciting research findings are emerging at the edges of traditional disciplines. Furthermore, numerous funding opportunities demand interdisciplinary approaches. The SPIRE (Supporting and Promoting Interdisciplinary Research and Education) Task Force was established in March 2010 by the Dean of the Mailman School of Public Health, Linda Fried. The Task Force was charged with finding ways to modify School policies to foster a nurturing environment for interdisciplinary science. To read the task force's report, please login using your uni. Contact For more information about the R2 Office and the services we provide, or to schedule an appointment, please email ckk7 [at] columbia.edu (Craig Kandell) or call 212-305-3615. More to Explore Friday 03June COVID-19: From Causes to ConsequencesMay 27 2022 Memorial Event Celebrates the Life of Zena SteinApr 27 2022 Bronx Gets Another Boost Toward a Clean Air FutureApr 25 2022 Study Examines Resilience of Immigrant Youth in Various Living ArrangementsApr 22 2022 Sign up for Transmission Columnbia Mailman Connect with Us Public Health Now News Events Publications Topics Student Voices Academics Departments Degrees Course Directory Calendar Policy & Procedures Office of Education Research Featured Research Global Health Centers Programs Grants & Awards Corporate Partnerships People Our Faculty Current Students Friends and Supporters Partners Alumni Become a Student Meet Our Faculty Life & Community Degree Finder How to Apply Career Services More Information Columbia University Mailman School of Public Health | 722 West 168th St. NY, NY 10032 Site Map Privacy Columbia University Irving Medical Center Copyright © Columbia University 2019 Information For Current Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Employers