Skip to main content Skip to main content Prospective Students Current Students Alumni More Faculty/Staff News Media Parents Skip to main content Apply Apply Give Give Follow Us Follow Us Twitter Follow Us Facebook Follow Us Instagram Follow Us LinkedIn Follow Us YouTube Follow Us Social Stream Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. Navigate Search Skip to main content Bush Center SMU-Bush Center Partnerships Center for Presidential History at SMU Tower Center Resources ☰ The George W. Bush Presidential Center and SMU SMU The George W. Bush Presidential Center and SMU Resources Resources Extending a Presidential Welcome Read the SMU Magazine story on the dedication Global Health Initiative In June 2013, President George W. Bush and Laura Bush traveled to Livingstone, Zambia, where they worked alongside local Zambians, U.S. embassy officials and Bush Institute staff to renovate a cervical cancer screening clinic and treatment center. As SMU students, Katie Bernet ’14, Melanie Enriquez ’16, Prithvi Rudrappa ’15 and Tyrell Russell ’16, along with Eric G. Bing, professor of global health in Simmons School of Education and Human Development and in Dedman College of Humanities and Sciences, participated in the life-saving volunteer effort. Read the SMU Magazine story Read blog entries from the SMU students Bush Center Video Eric Bing on “Using Creativity and New Approaches to Deliver Healthcare in Africa” President Bush Visits Classes Austin Brown ’16, ’17 remembers visit to class by President Bush A President’s Perspective SMU Magazine and The Daily Campus interview President Bush as the Bush Library prepares to open SMU Magazine issue with dedication coverage, Spring 2013 Forum on Leadership: A Conversation with Jeff Bezos The George W. Bush Presidential Center 5th Anniversary: SMU Student Shout-outs The George W. Bush Presidential Center and SMU SMU-Bush Center Partnerships Center for Presidential History at SMU Commencement Addresses Timeline of Bush Center Site Selection Process Tower Center Resources Apply Visit School Cox School of Business Dedman College of Humanities and Sciences Dedman School of Law Lyle School of Engineering Meadows School of the Arts Moody School of Graduate and Advanced Studies Perkins School of Theology Simmons School of Education and Human Development Explore SMU Magazine Academic Calendar Events Calendar Guildhall Continuing and Professional Education Athletics Employment at SMU Campus Reporting a Bias Incident Report Sexual Misconduct Emergency Preparedness Student Life George W. Bush Presidential Center SMU Libraries Meadows Museum Tate Lecture Series Contact Us Maps and Directions Legal Disclosures © Southern Methodist University, PO Box 750100, Dallas, TX 75275 twitter facebook instagram linkedin youtube share