Skip to main content Toggle subitems Main navigation Meet Princeton Toggle sub-items In Service of Humanity Facts & Figures History Honors & Awards Contact Us Visit Us Our Faculty Our Students Our Alumni Our Staff Our Leadership Academic Freedom and Free Expression Academics Toggle sub-items Studying at Princeton Library Areas of Study Humanities Social Sciences Engineering Natural Sciences Advising Academic Calendar Course Tools Learning Abroad Career Development Continuing Education Innovative Learning Research Toggle sub-items Engineering & Applied Science Humanities Natural Sciences Social Sciences Interdisciplinary Approach Dean for Research Office External Partnerships Facilities & Labs One Community Toggle sub-items Lifelong Connections Student Life Arts & Culture Athletics Living in Princeton, N.J. Housing & Dining Activities & Organizations Cultural & Affinity Groups Health & Wellness Religious Life Serving the Public Good Families Admission & Aid Toggle sub-items Affordable for All About Financial Aid Current Undergraduate Financial Aid Undergraduate Admission Graduate Admission For International Students Utility menu News Events Work at Princeton Services & Resources Work-Life Balance Links for Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Giving Search Sites & People × Share on Facebook Share on Twitter Share on LinkedIn Email Print President Eisgruber statement: Standing in solidarity with our Asian American community by the Office of Communications March 17, 2021, 1:54 p.m. Photo by Denise Applewhite, Office of Communications The following statement by Princeton President Christopher L. Eisgruber was shared on the President's blog on March 17, 2021: I join the Princeton University community and people everywhere in mourning the victims of last night’s horrific shootings in Atlanta. Though the killings remain under investigation, these attacks come amidst a disturbing nationwide rise in violence, discrimination, and xenophobia directed against the Asian American and Pacific Islander (AAPI) community. As scholars including Princeton’s own Anne Cheng and Beth Lew-Williams have demonstrated in research and public commentary, these trends are only the most recent and visible manifestations of durable, damaging, and too often overlooked racism and injustice. We must condemn not only recent acts of violence against Asian-Americans, but also the much more pervasive discrimination and stereotyping that has for too long and too often harmed Asian American lives and impoverished our society. As I said last June after the cruel killing of George Floyd, we all have an obligation to stand up against racism, wherever and whenever we find it. We are reminded again today, and all too often, that racism’s vile poison blights the lives of many different groups and people. As Princeton commits itself to fight for an ever more fully inclusive and equitable society, on our campus and beyond it, we must stand for and with all the groups who contribute to the beautiful and vibrant diversity of our University, our country, and the world. Princeton’s Asian, Asian American, and Pacific Islander community is a vital source of creativity and strength for this University. Our future depends on ensuring that they, and people of all backgrounds, can flourish fully here and in America. In our scholarship, our teaching, and our University’s efforts to fight systemic racism, we will continue to support and work with our AAPI students, faculty, staff, and alumni to build a better world. University Resources The University also has a number of resources that offer support to undergraduates, graduate students, faculty and staff, as well as programs, websites and toolkits related to issues of systemic racism, diversity and inclusion. President Eisgruber’s Sept. 2020 update on University efforts to combat systemic racism Inclusive Princeton website Racial Equity website Inclusivity Resources for Employees Human Resources Combating Racism Learning Resources Employee Resource Groups Office of Religious Life’s Interfaith Response to Racism Graduate School Race, Equity and Inclusion Resources Office of the Vice President for Campus Life Diversity and Inclusion Fields Center for Equality and Cultural Understanding Davis International Center Dean of the Faculty Diversity and Inclusion Dean of the Faculty Addressing Racism Funding Initiative McGraw Center Inclusive and Equitable Teaching Resources Counseling and Psychological Services Princeton RISE Grants (Recognizing Inequities and Standing for Equality) Events Various University departments and centers are also hosting upcoming events related to issues of race. All of these events will be virtual. A Brave Space: Discussion, Learning and Support Employee Resource Group Open Listening Session March 17 at 4 p.m. or March 18 at 10 a.m. Link to Register (please note listening session is open to University employees) The Purpose of Power March 17 at 6 p.m. More info Link to Register Asian American Students Association: A conversation with Georgia State Senator Dr. Michelle Au March 18 at 7 p.m. Link to Register The COVID-19 Vaccine and the Black Community March 18 at 7 p.m. More info Link to Register Listening Circle for Asian Graduate Student Community March 19 at 12 p.m. Link to Register Inside Looking In: Chinese Storytellers on Covering the Land of their Birth March 24 at 8:30 p.m. Link to Register Race in the COVID Era: Ensuring Educational Equity during the COVID-19 Crisis March 25 at 4 p.m. Link to Register Cascading Crises: Race, COVID-19, and the Matter of Life and Death March 25 at 4:30 p.m. More info Link to register Book Talk: This is the Fire: What I Say to My Friends About Racism (featuring CNN's Don Lemon) March 29 at 4 p.m. More info Link to register A Past Becomes a Heritage: The Negro Units of the Federal Theatre Project March 30 at 7:30 p.m. More info Link to register Black Women and American Democracy March 31 at 4:30 p.m. More info Link to register Related Stories UPDATED: Princeton voices: Speaking out on anti-Asian American racism and violence in aftermath of the Atlanta shootings Read more President Eisgruber calls on University leadership to confront realities and legacy of racism at every level of our institution Read more President Eisgruber’s annual State of the University letter, 2021 Read more Statement from President Eisgruber on the killing of George Floyd and the importance of confronting racism Read more ‘Race in the COVID Era: What America’s History of Racism and Xenophobia Means for Today’ conversation Read more Princeton announces funding for teaching, research, service initiatives to address COVID-19 challenges, racial injustice Read more 2020 Commencement Address by President Eisgruber Read more View All News Contact links Contact Us Accessibility Advanced People Search Media Inquiries Website Feedback Visiting links Plan a Visit Maps & Shuttles Varsity Athletics Giving to Princeton Academic links Library Academic Calendar Student Links Faculty & Staff Links Footer social media Facebook Twitter Instagram Snapchat LinkedIn YouTube Social Media Directory Equal Opportunity and Nondiscrimination at Princeton University: Princeton University believes that commitment to principles of fairness and respect for all is favorable to the free and open exchange of ideas, and the University seeks to reach out as widely as possible in order to attract the ablest individuals as students, faculty, and staff. In applying this policy, the University is committed to nondiscrimination on the basis of personal beliefs or characteristics such as political views, religion, national or ethnic origin, race, color, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity or expression, pregnancy, age, marital or domestic partnership status, veteran status, disability, genetic information and/or other characteristics protected by applicable law in any phase of its education or employment programs or activities. In addition, pursuant to Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 and supporting regulations, Princeton does not discriminate on the basis of sex in the education programs or activities that it operates; this extends to admission and employment. Inquiries about the application of Title IX and its supporting regulations may be directed to the Assistant Secretary for Civil Rights, Office for Civil Rights, U.S. Department of Education or to the University's Sexual Misconduct/Title IX Coordinator. See Princeton’s full Equal Opportunity Policy and Nondiscrimination Statement. Princeton University Princeton, NJ 08544 Operator: (609) 258-3000 © 2022 The Trustees of Princeton University Subfooter links Copyright Infringement Privacy Notice