Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Helen Hardin Honors College Join Honors Current Members Get Involved Opportunities Faculty News Contact Us Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact Opportunities Undergraduate Research Summer Fellowship Washington Center Internships Scholarships Phi Kappa Phi Study Abroad Take Action Apply Online Opportunities National Student Exchange Contact Us Follow Honors Online InstagramFacebooktwitter Home Helen Hardin Honors College Opportunities Summer Research Fellowship Honors Summer Research Fellowship The Helen Hardin Honors College will provide funding for a summer research fellowship program to promote research and creative scholarly activity among honors students. The purpose of the program is to provide honors students with the time, financial support, and faculty mentoring to pursue meaningful research and creative projects in the summer. Benefits Up to 10 stipends at $2,400 each will be awarded to support honors students who will work with a University of Memphis full-time faculty member this summer. Students will also receive an allowance of up to $1,000 for consumable supplies to be used in direct support of the research project. Eligibility Application is open to any Helen Hardin Honors College student who meet the following criteria: Has not been awarded an honors summer research fellowship previously, Is in good standing with the Honors College (i.e., minimum 3.25 GPA, not on probation,etc.). Will have completed his/her sophomore year (defined as having a minimum of 60 credit hours) or junior year prior to the beginning for the 2021 Summer Session. Will enroll for at least one semester at the University of Memphis as an undergraduate student after the completion of the summer fellowship. Please note: Students graduating in May or August 2022 are not eligible. Program Requirements Students funded by this program must agree to the following: Be involved in the program, from June 1 to August 6, and forego any courses, employment, or internships that would interfere with their full-time commitment during the 10-week period of participation. Submit a final report to the Honors College representing the completed work no later than the first day of classes Present their results at the annual Works in Progress Symposium held in the Fall 2022 semester. If still enrolled in the Spring 2023 semester, present their results at the Student Research Forum and apply to present at the National Conference for Undergraduate Research in Spring 2023. Submit an honors thesis based upon the funded project in senior year. Selection Criteria Fellows are selected based on the following criteria: Academic record and commitment to the honors curriculum Quality of the proposal Originality and promise of their proposed projects Faculty recommendations Application Process Applicants must submit the following materials: Honors Fellowship Application Form A 1000-1500 word statement describing the purpose of the project, the expected outcomes of the project, and how the project will enhance your educational program, A letter of recommendation from the faculty member who will direct your research. This letter should include the following Plans for mentoring and supervision by the faculty member; Relevant information might include: the expected manner, form, and frequency of interactions between the student and mentor; Plan for the student to meet the project milestones; and a description of any planned product as the result of the research. A letter of recommendation from a faculty member other than your research mentor. Copy of your unofficial transcript. Students are responsible for seeking a faculty member to mentor the project, or a faculty member can suggest a project to a student. Application Deadline: April 15, 2022 E-mail application documents to Dr. Melinda Jones, Director, Helen Hardin Honors College at mljones6@memphis.edu. Past Summer Fellows & Projects Summer 2020 > Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 4/1/22 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.