Skip to main content Skip to primary site menu Google Tag Manager Search form Search Explore Brown University Search Global Navigation Learn More About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life Find A to Z Index People Directory Information for Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Top Destinations Global Brown Watson Institute Graduate School Alpert Medical School School of Public Health School of Engineering Undocumented, First-Generation College, and Low-Income Student Center Home About Programs and Services Get Involved Site Navigation Home About People Our Team Community History News & Updates Digital Archive Programs and Services FLi Scholars Program Undocumented Student Program Prospective Students Financial Matters Internships and Other Opportunities DACA Q/A Class Dissonance Series Undocu-Series U-FLi Graduate Student Initiative Get Involved Alumni and Giving Opportunities Sign-up for our Newsletter Slideshow Partial Welcome Thank you for visiting the Undocumented, First-Generation College, and Low-Income Student Center website. About the Center Digital Archive Check out our digital archive with interviews for our Community Narratives Project. Read More Reflecting on Community Narratives Project Reflecting on Community Narratives Project Undocumented Student Program Follow the link for answers to general questions regarding student support Click Here U-FLi Graduate Student Initiative The Graduate Student Initiative of the U-FLi Center is launching this fall! Sign Up for the GSI Newsletter There are no events available. Undocumented, First-Generation College, and Low-Income Student Center The Undocumented, First-Generation College and Low-Income Student Center (U-FLi Center) is a communal, learning, and advocacy center for members of the Brown community who identify with the undocumented, first-generation college, and/or low-income student experience. By providing undergraduate and graduate students with a dedicated space that affirms their intersectional identities, the U-FLi Center aims to contribute to the endurance and success of U-FLi students at Brown University. Who does the center support? While the term "first-generation college student" is defined as a student whose parents did not complete a four-year college education, at Brown we encourage students to think of the term more broadly. We welcome any student who self-identifies as having minimal prior exposure to or knowledge of experiences like those at Brown. For "low-income students," there is no income level that determines eligibility for students to take advantage of the community and programs of the U-FLi Center, though generally engaged students have little or no expected parent contribution as part of their financial aid package. Students who advocated for the inclusion of low-income students in the title of the Center had powerful stories for how their experiences impacted their time at Brown and expressed a desire for increased coordination of support. An "undocumented student" is defined as a student who is not a U.S. citizen or Permanent Resident of the United States, and who does not hold a visa to reside in the U.S. Undocumented students can find information about financial, legal, and emotional support through the Undocumented Student Program of the Center, as well as the Brown Immigrant Rights Coalition. The U-FLi Center also works closely with students who may identify with the "undocu-plus" experience (DACA-mented students, TPS holders, or students from mixed-status families). Undocumented, First-Generation College, and Low-Income Student Center Undocumented, First-Generation College, and Low-Income Student Center Brown University Box 1998 5th Floor, Sciences Library 201 Thayer Street Providence, RI 02912 Email [email protected] Facebook Facebook Instagram Instagram Brown University Giving to Brown Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA 401-863-1000 Contact Us Maps Directions Career Opportunities Campus Safety Accessibility All Social Media © 2022 Brown University | Back to top