Skip Navigation California State University, Fullerton Site Menu Division of Academic Affairs Assessment and Institutional Effectiveness Main Navigation Accreditation Analytical Studies Assessment Data Governance Institutional Research Quality Assurance Upcoming Events Past Events Presentations & Publications FAQs Office of Assessment and Institutional Effectiveness leads systematic and integrated efforts to explore the impact of university programs, curricula, services and operations; provides meaningful data to support strategic planning and decision-making at all levels of the university; plays a critical role in demonstrating accountability to accreditation, external entities and the general public; fosters a campus-wide culture of data-informed decision-making, continuous improvement, and teaching and learning innovations. NEWS & ANNOUNCEMENTS May 17, 2022: University Assessment Forum April 25, 2022: Whom Are We Teaching? February 11, 2022: Tracking Student Success Beyond Graduation January 24, 2022: Data Governance REQUESTS FOR DATA & ANALYSES Please use the link below to request data or analyses. Be sure to browse our website as it displays and regularly updates a variety of institutional data (e.g. enrollment, graduate rate, PPR reports). If you are unsure how to locate the data needed, please contact us at (657) 278-2593 or data@fullerton.edu . Request here OUR TEAM The OAIE (Office of Assessment & Institutional Effectiveness) team is here to assist you with any needs related to institutional data or analyses. To contact or locate a team member, please click 'team members'. This site is maintained by Assessment and Institutional Effectiveness. Last Published 5/17/22 To report problems or comments with this site, please contact data@fullerton.edu. © California State University, Fullerton. All Rights Reserved. Web Accessibility CSUF is committed to ensuring equal accessibility to our users. Let us know about any accessibility problems you encounter using this website. We'll do our best to improve things and get you the information you need. Resources: Download Adobe Acrobat Reader Adobe Reader Download Word viewer, or download Excel viewer, or download PowerPoint viewer Microsoft Viewers Report An ATI Issue Accessible @ CSUF Version_4.8.10 This page uses javascript to help render elements, if you have problems please enable javascript.