Skip to main content Skip to main content DIVISION of ENROLLMENT SERVICES Skip to main content &nbsp;<b>Student Quicklinks</b> Student Quicklinks &nbsp;<b>Faculty/Staff Quicklinks</b> Faculty/Staff Quicklinks Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. Navigate Search Skip to main content Financial Aid The Financial Aid Process The Financial Aid Process Texas Residency Rules for State Aid Dates & Deadlines Texas Application for State Financial Aid (TASFA) Financial Aid Status Disbursement of Aid Appeals Due to Special Circumstances Helpful hints for completing the FAFSA and CSS/Financial Aid PROFILE Verification Process Are you Dependent or Independent? How to Accept/Decline Financial Aid Refunds Costs Types of Aid Types of Aid Scholarships Loans Grants Student Employment Graduate Financial Aid Federal Government Funded Financial Aid Programs SMU Funded Financial Aid Programs Summer and May Inter-Term Financial Aid Options for Undergraduate Students Veteran Benefits How Enrollment Level Affects Aid Satisfactory Academic Progress (SAP) Process Forms Library Financial Aid Glossary Frequently Asked Questions Contact Us ☰ Financial Aid The Financial Aid Process Disbursement of Aid Disbursement of Aid After you submit all required documents and your financial aid package is finalized, your funds will be disbursed to your student account as follows: Federal and State Aid (such as, Pell Grant, TEG, SEOG and Federal Direct Loans) will appear as anticipated aid on your bill and will post to your student account 10 days prior to the first day of class for the term. SMU Academic Scholarships and SMU Grants will appear as a credit on your student account. Private or Alternative Loans are applied as pending aid if the loan has been approved. Funds may be released 10 days prior to the start of classes. The private lender may take 3-4 weeks to disburse the funds to SMU after the loan has been approved and SMU has submitted the loan certification. Funds cannot be refunded to the students until the lender has disbursed the funds to the University. Federal Work Study does NOT appear on the bill and does not reduce the amount owed. These funds are earned by the student if he/she participates in the work study program. For more information on Federal Work-Study, go to the Financial Aid Student Employment page or you can go to the menu bar at the top of this page and click on "Types of Aid" and then "Student Employment". The Financial Aid Process Texas Residency Rules for State Aid Dates & Deadlines Texas Application for State Financial Aid (TASFA) Financial Aid Status Disbursement of Aid Appeals Due to Special Circumstances Helpful Hints Verification Process Are you Dependent or Independent? How to Accept/Decline Financial Aid Refunds Student Services Quicklinks× Faculty/Staff Quicklinks× Contact Us Maps and Directions Legal Disclosures © Southern Methodist University, PO Box 750100, Dallas, TX 75275 twitter facebook instagram linkedin youtube share