Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Department of Chemistry About Programs People Research Resources Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact Programs Undergraduate Advising BS, Chemistry Major BS, Chemistry, Biochemistry conc. BS in Chemistry (ACS Approved) BS in Chemistry, Biochemistry conc. Chemistry Minor Courses and Information Permit Requests Scholarships & Awards Student Members of ACS (SMACS) Research Opportunities NSF REU Program Graduate Ph.D. in ChemistryMS in ChemistryCoursesFAQ Take Action Apply to the Department of Chemistry Contact us! Seminar Schedule Follow Us Online Facebooktwitter Home Department of Chemistry Programs Chemistry Undergraduate Research Chemistry Undergraduate Research CHEM 4901/4902/4903 courses are offered to students who are engaged in chemical research under the sponsorship of a faculty mentor either on campus or off-campus. A research contract must be completed prior to obtaining a registration permit. Choose a mentor (see below) and research project, complete this form, and submit the signed form to Dr. Bridson (pbridson@memphis.edu or fax: 901-678-3447). Undergraduates can engage in research before or after they have taken CHEM 490x, or even if these courses are not required for graduation. Some faculty members may have government, industry, and University funding to pay hourly wages or small stipends for undergraduate research. Students are also welcome to volunteer in the research lab when no funding is available. It still looks great on your résumé! Do not hesitate to ask a faculty member about available opportunities! Multiple opportunities will be available for students to present the results of their research on campus and at regional and national meetings. The faculty listed here are among those available to mentor undergraduate research in chemistry. Follow the links for more details on research interests, and be sure to schedule meetings with one or more faculty in order to choose a project of mutual interest before completing the form referenced above. William Alexander (Physical Chemistry) - study of role of intermolecular forces in chemistry at surfaces, including applications in environmental contaminants, biomedical implants, and structure determination. More... Daniel Baker (Analytical Biochemistry) - study of enzymes involved in lipid metabolism using high throughput screening, enzyme kinetics, site-directed mutagenesis, mass spectrometry, and computational methods. More... Tim Brewster (Inorganic Chemistry) - design, synthesis, and characterization of transition metal complexes utilized as selective catalysts for organic transformations. More... Ted Burkey (Organometallic Chemistry) - design, synthesis, and study of ultrafast molecular devices based on light-induced color changes in organometallic materials. More... Kensha Clark (Organometallic Chemistry) - design, synthesis, and characterization of inorganic and organometallic complexes for new electronic materials and catalysis. More... Nathan DeYonker (Inorganic/Theoretical Chemistry) - spectroscopy of astrochemicals, biochemistry and enzyme modeling, inorganic computational chemistry. More... Tomoko Fujiwara (Polymer Chemistry) - synthesis and fabrication of organic polymers for biomedical applications such as drug delivery and implants, and membranes for energy devices. More... Charles Garner (Organic Chemistry) - synthesis of new organic or metal-organic compounds to advance preparation or analysis methods. More... Xiaohua Huang (Bioanalytical Chemistry) - development of novel nanomaterials and technologies for cancer detection and treatment. More... Daniel Nascimento (Physical/Theoretical Chemistry) - development and application of quantum chemical methods and algorithms to model light-matter interactions in complex molecular systems. More... Abby Parrill (Bioorganic Chemistry) - investigation of proteins as targets for therapeutic candidates using techniques ranging from computational modeling to protein design/expression/characterization. More... Yongmei Wang (Biophysical Chemistry) – computational studies of macromolecules and nanoparticles, molecular modeling in nanomedicine, multiscale modeling in gene and drug delivery. More... Xuan Zhao (Inorganic Chemistry) - design and synthesis of new catalysts for generating hydrogen from water and their development toward use in artificial photosynthesis. More... Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 4/15/22 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.