HOME Make a Gift Clemson Home Students Faculty/Staff Alumni Partners A-Z Index Calendar Campus Maps CU Safety Phonebook Webcams Make a Gift Toggle navigation MANAGE MY ACCOUNT MY.CLEMSON MAPS Campus Maps Parking Space Map Long-Term Visitor Parking Short-Term Visitor Parking FORMS BikeShare Release Form Carpool Permit Application Departmental Guest Permits Departmental Space Reservation LEV / EV Employee Permit Application Payroll Deduction Election/Termination Form Special Event Parking Request Tiger Transit Rental Request Vendor Permit Application FAQ CONTACT US Students Home Permit Rates Bike & Walk Clemson Recyclery Douthit Transit Options Summer Research Assistant Permits Summer Employee Permits for Student Research Assistant Employee passes available for graduate students with continuing research over the summer break with written request from faculty. Due to the surplus of parking over the summer break, students with a valid student parking permit may obtain a temporary employee pass allowing them to park in unrestricted (no 24-hr) green spaces from Monday, May 9 to Friday, August 12. Students approved for this pass will receive an additional placard that must be displayed on the dash in addition to a valid student parking permit on the vehicle. Based on current construction projects, parking lots available for assignment are E-04, E-21, E-27 or Williamson Rd. Students with Graduate Assistant (GA) parking permits are permitted to park in the above stated lots May 9 to Aug 12 without completing the below application. Displaying a valid GA permit is sufficient. Students without a GA parking permit will need to complete the application process. Applications are being accepted starting Tuesday, May 3. To obtain such a pass, the requesting student must submit all of the following information to Parking and Transportation Services to receive the temporary pass. Parking and Transportation Services is open Monday - Friday from 7:30 a.m. to 4:30 p.m. and is located on the 4th (ground) floor of the University Union. Written certification from the faculty advisor on departmental letterhead that the student is performing research for them throughout the summer. This letter shall include: Name of the student and XID number, Work location and schedule, Reason for the request, and Make, model, and license plate of the student’s vehicle. (Note: supplemental permit limited to one vehicle.) All requests will be reviewed on a case by case basis and parking assignments are based on availability. After approval, all passes must be picked up in Parking and Transportation Services by Wednesday, June 1 at 4:30 p.m. The pass shall be displayed on the vehicle’s dashboard in conjunction with a valid university student parking permit on the vehicle. Parking and Transportation Services G01-C Edgar Brown Union | Clemson, SC 29634 Office Hours: Mon - Fri 7:30 a.m. - 4:30 p.m. Contact Us Copyright 2020 Webmaster