Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Division of Student Affairs Student Affairs Information For Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff Search BC.edu Links AHANA Menu Main Nav Thea Bowman AHANA and Intercultural Center Contact Back Back Close About Overview BAIC History Sr. Thea Bowman Biography of Dr. Benjamin Mays AHANA Defined Meet the Staff Job Opportunities Get Involved Donate Contact Programs & Services Overview Promote Equity Build Community Support Opportunity Scholarships Community Contact Close Directory A to Z Listing Search Division of Student Affairs Search BC.edu Find pages or people Search Close Close Apply Visit Give Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close The Thea Bowman AHANA and Intercultural Center supports the undergraduate community—with a particular focus on AHANA (people of African, Hispanic, Asian, and Native American descent), multicultural, multiracial, and OTE students—in navigating college life and fulfilling their potential. Who was Sister Thea Bowman Our work is inspired by the life and philosophy of Thea Bowman, a Catholic nun of the Franciscan Sisters of the Perpetual Adoration, who “helped people everywhere she went to explore their identity and to find their deepest humanity.” Learn more Meet the Staff Learn more The BAIC staff are dedicated to helping all undergraduate AHANA students excel academically, personally, and in the pursuit of leadership opportunities. What Is AHANA? Learn more More than an acronym, the term “AHANA" was coined by students in 1979 to celebrate the cultural differences present in the BC community and in our society. Get Involved Learn more All of our programs and services are committed to promoting equity, building community, and supporting opportunity among our students. AHANA Student Perspectives Boston College students talk about their experiences as members of the AHANA (African, Hispanic, Asian, and Native American) community on the Heights. Monica Sanchez ’21 | KAF Weekend 2021 Boston College senior Monica Sanchez reflects on her experience of choosing Boston College and shares her perspective as a first generation college student now approaching graduation. Hariharan Shanmugam ’21 | KAF Weekend 2021 Senior Hariharan Shanmugam talks about his experience as a Boston College student and member of the AHANA (African, Hispanic, Asian, and Native American) community. Gordon Chang ’21 | KAF Weekend 2021 Boston College senior Gordon Chang offers advice to incoming and new students who may be part of the AHANA (African, Hispanic, Asian, and Native American) community. Student Resources and News All News Announcements Student Affairs Events Signature Events Men of Color Conference The Thea Bowman AHANA and Intercultural Center (BAIC) hosted it's first Men of Color Conference on Saturday, February 8. Build Community Heritage Month Celebrations The BAIC collaborates with student organizations and academic and student affairs departments to celebrate the contributions of AHANA communities. Build Community Dialogues on Race Dialogues on Race (DOR) is a peer-led discussion group on issues surrounding race, identity, and racial justice. Build Community Magis Civil Rights Immersion Trip The Magis Civil Rights Immersion Trip is a six-day tour through the South with stops at major sites related to the civil rights movement. Build Community AHANA Summit The AHANA Summit is a free, two-day overnight retreat designed specifically for AHANA students to connect and to share their experiences. Build Community Jamaica Magis Service Immersion Trip BC students live and serve in solidarity with people in Jamaica who have faced social, political, and economic oppression. Promote Equity Options Through Education Program (OTE) OTE assists students transition to BC who have demonstrated potential and leadership in spite of challenging circumstances. Support Opportunity BRAVE Conference BRAVE programming and the BRAVE Conference are designed to encourage Boston College students to engage in difficult conversations and become advocates for their peers. Build Community Lift as You Climb Mentoring Program This program aims to introduce first-year OTE scholars to resources that can assist them with navigating their journey as members of BC community. Build Community AHANA Tailgates Before each home football game, BAIC hosts a tailgate with music, burgers, hot dogs, and various ethnic foods! Build Community Benjamin Mays Mentoring Program The focus of the Benjamin Elijah Mays Mentoring Program at Boston College is to assist undergraduate students in building these solid foundations. Build Community Bowman Advocates for Inclusive Culture Bowman Advocates for Inclusive Culture are student leaders who strive to build a more inclusive Boston College community through cross-cultural dialogue. AHANA at a Glance « » Student Last Name College Counselor Last name starts with A - G Ms. Joana Maynard Last name starts with H - M Last name starts with N - P Mr. Andy Petigny Last name starts with Q - Z Ms. Danielle Date College Counseling As part of our efforts to help you succeed, we offer academic performance monitoring working with faculty members to ensure your academic success. To find out more about this service and others, contact your College Counselor today. Connect With Us Back To Top Back To Top Thea Bowman AHANA and Intercultural Center Maloney Hall, Suite 455 Chestnut Hill, MA 02467 617-552-3358 | bowmancenter@bc.edu About Programs & Services Scholarships Division of Student Affairs Division of Student Affairs BAIC BC Bands Business Service Center Career Center Counseling Services Graduate Student Life Health Promotion Health Services Residential Life Robsham Theater Student Conduct Student Involvement Student Outreach & Support Women’s Center Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College