Skip to main content Search form Search Information For Current Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Employers Contact Give About Search Menu Public Health Now News Events Publications Topics Student Voices Celebrating the Centennial Our Work to Address COVID-19 Columbia Public Health Magazine Academics Departments Degrees Course Directory Calendar Policy & Procedures Office of Education Research Featured Research Global Health Centers Programs Grants & Awards Corporate Partnerships People Our Faculty Current Students Friends and Supporters Partners Alumni Become a Student Meet Our Faculty Life & Community Degree Finder How to Apply Career Services More Information Master of Public Health Degree Programs Certificate Program Core Curriculum Search You are here Home Academics Degrees MPH Certificates Winter Storm Update/Impacts to Campus and Services Last Updated 12:50pm Fri May 6 See Coronavirus Updates for information on campus protocols. Certificate Requirements Advanced Epidemiology Applied Biostatistics and Public Health Data Science Child, Youth, and Family Health Climate and Health Comparative Effectiveness Outcomes Research Environmental Health Policy Epidemiology of Chronic Disease Global Health Health Communication Health and Human Rights Health of an Aging Society Health Policy Analysis Health Policy and Practice Health Promotion Research and Practice History, Ethics, and Law Infectious Disease Epidemiology Certificate | Columbia Public Health Injury and Violence Prevention Molecular Epidemiology Population Mental Health Public Health and Humanitarian Action Public Health Research Methods Certificate | Columbia Public Health Sexuality, Sexual and Reproductive Health Social Determinants of Health Toxicology Certificate Requirements Advanced Epidemiology Applied Biostatistics and Public Health Data Science Child, Youth, and Family Health Climate and Health Comparative Effectiveness Outcomes Research Environmental Health Policy Epidemiology of Chronic Disease Global Health Health Communication Health and Human Rights Health of an Aging Society Health Policy Analysis Health Policy and Practice Health Promotion Research and Practice History, Ethics, and Law Infectious Disease Epidemiology Certificate | Columbia Public Health Injury and Violence Prevention Molecular Epidemiology Population Mental Health Public Health and Humanitarian Action Public Health Research Methods Certificate | Columbia Public Health Sexuality, Sexual and Reproductive Health Social Determinants of Health Toxicology Certificate Program The Public Health Certificate programs form an integral part of the two-year Columbia MPH degree experience and provide students with advanced training in a focused area of public health beyond the departmental discipline. Certificates lead to a Columbia University approved credential. All students enrolled in the two-year Columbia MPH are required to fulfill the course requirements of their Certificate program in addition to Core and Departmental requirements to graduate. The 20+ available Certificate programs in public health have been developed in consultation with industry employers and other key stakeholders to reflect today’s most sought-after knowledge and skillsets. Many Certificates focus on interdisciplinary topics such as global health, chronic disease, or aging, while some offer an advanced training in one particular area such as biostatistics or research methods. Most Certificate-related coursework takes place from the second to fourth semesters. However, some Certificate-specific, non-credit sessions and special events are held during the first and second semesters. Please visit the individual public health certificate pages to view some of the sample courses offered for the Certificate. To view the current course requirements, download the list of required courses and electives via the MPH Requirements Database. Applying to a Certificate & Admissions Requirements Most students apply to a Certificate as part of the process for applying to the School. Students interested in declaring or switching Certificates after matriculation should note the following: Most Certificates are open to students across the School. However, Certificate switches are not guaranteed after the Fall semester Open-Enrollment period has concluded. Some have admissions requirements related to prior coursework or test scores. Students can refer to the individual webpages (to the left) for each Certificate to learn more about the specific admissions criteria. Additionally, some Certificates have financial and academic implications. All application decisions are made by Certificate faculty leads and hosting departments. Application Period: Fall 2021 For questions, please contact the Office of Educational Initiatives at msph-oei [at] cumc.columbia.edu. Advising/Contact Each Certificate in public health is directed by a lead faculty member, with the support of departmental academic coordinators and the Office of Educational Initiatives. Students should meet with faculty leads for guidance related to academic pursuits and progress, and contact departmental coordinators and staff in the Office of Educational Programs for general information on Certificate programs. Visit the MPH Requirements Database for more information about courses, scheduling, and contacts. The Certificate courses are included within the flat tuition model. Prior to registering, please review the student handbook for registration and tuition policies. More to Explore Friday 03June COVID-19: From Causes to ConsequencesMay 27 2022 Family Size May Influence Cognitive Functioning in Later LifeMay 12 2022 Public Health Leaders Urge SCOTUS to Uphold Roe v. WadeMay 4 2022 Asia and Africa Have Similar Aging Burden as the WestMay 4 2022 Sign up for Transmission Interested in changing the world? Apply Today Columnbia Mailman Connect with Us Public Health Now News Events Publications Topics Student Voices Academics Departments Degrees Course Directory Calendar Policy & Procedures Office of Education Research Featured Research Global Health Centers Programs Grants & Awards Corporate Partnerships People Our Faculty Current Students Friends and Supporters Partners Alumni Become a Student Meet Our Faculty Life & Community Degree Finder How to Apply Career Services More Information Columbia University Mailman School of Public Health | 722 West 168th St. NY, NY 10032 Site Map Privacy Columbia University Irving Medical Center Copyright © Columbia University 2019 Information For Current Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Employers