Georgetown University Open Search Form Who We Are The Whole Person Our Catholic & Jesuit Heritage Our History Student Stories Faculty Stories Alumni Stories Campus & City Living in DC Opportunities Getting Around Service & Action Campus Life Housing On-Campus Dining Clubs & Organizations Arts & Culture Community & Diversity Student Life Blog Wellness & Safety Sports & Fitness Health Center Safety & Emergency Preparedness Athletics External Link Academic Life Restless Inquiry Our Schools Areas of Study Study Abroad Research Centers and Programs Global Initiatives External Link Library System Admissions & Aid Undergraduate Admissions External Link Graduate Admissions Financial Aid External Link Commitment to Access News Events Giving Alumni Info For Students Faculty Staff/AAP Alumni Parents Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Content Skip to Footer News Events Giving Alumni Info For Students Faculty Staff/AAP Alumni Parents Georgetown University Who We Are The Whole Person Our Catholic & Jesuit Heritage Our History Student Stories Faculty Stories Alumni Stories Campus & City Living in DC Opportunities Getting Around Service & Action Campus Life Housing On-Campus Dining Clubs & Organizations Arts & Culture Community & Diversity Student Life Blog Wellness & Safety Sports & Fitness Health Center Safety & Emergency Preparedness Athletics External Link Academic Life Restless Inquiry Our Schools Areas of Study Study Abroad Research Centers and Programs Global Initiatives External Link Library System Admissions & Aid Undergraduate Admissions External Link Graduate Admissions Financial Aid External Link Commitment to Access Open Search Form Georgetown University Category: Student Experience Title: Class of 2020 Graduates: Where Are They Now? Date Published: May 26, 2022 Share Facebook Twitter Email This weekend, the Class of 2020 returns to the Hilltop to celebrate their graduation after the COVID-19 pandemic delayed their in-person Commencement. Meet three Hoyas who have been making a difference around the world since their graduation – advocating for better health care for people with disabilities, for low-income community members in the Mississippi Delta and for financial livelihoods during the pandemic. Sara Rotenberg (NHS’20) Sara Rotenberg (NHS’20), a senior global health major committed to creating an equitable world for people with disabilities, was named a 2020 Rhodes Scholarship recipient from Canada. At Georgetown, Rotenberg studied disability inclusion policies with a focus on global development and conducted research through the Global Health Initiative, India Initiative, and the Department of International Health’s curriculum at the World Health Organization’s Regional Office for South-East Asia (SEARO) in New Delhi. She worked with the Coalition for Epidemic Preparedness Innovations (CEPI), interned with the Embassy of Canada to the United States, and volunteered with the Advisory Board for Student Organizations at the Center for Social Justice Research, Teaching and Service. What have you been up to since 2020? I am currently completing a D.Phil. (Ph.D.) in primary health care at the University of Oxford, where I study how to improve health outcomes for people with disabilities through better health worker training. On the side, I have also done some consulting for organizations like the World Bank, WHO, Missing Billion Initiative and Clinton Health Access Initiative. I have also been involved in the COVID-19 pandemic response doing some advocacy work on including people with disabilities in testing and vaccination programs, and I spent part of last year as a senior policy advisor for Health Canada’s COVID-19 Testing and Screening Expert Panel. Based on what you’ve learned in the past two years, what advice would you give to yourself in May of 2020? My advice would be to learn from the duality of each moment. Doing so will help us learn more about ourselves, our capacity for resilience and the power of community. What’s your favorite Georgetown memory? Hard to pick one — probably the India Innovation Studio class trips to India, a furniture making class I took and long conversations with my professors in office hours. A Testimonial “Being at Georgetown and having high standards and expectations of its students has been very helpful. The job can still be overwhelming, but I know that if it weren’t for my past experiences, it would’ve been a lot harder for me to keep up.” Angela Perez (C’20), Press Assistant for the White House (Photo by Samuel Corum) Ty Pinkins (L’20) Before Georgetown, Pinkins served in the U.S. Army in 23 countries, including three combat tours. He received the Bronze Star Medal and a raft of other honors before retiring in 2017 as a presidential communications aide. President Barack Obama even offered to look over his papers when he found out Pinkins was enrolling in Georgetown Law. In 2016, Pinkins formed a nonprofit, the Pyramid Project, which offers teens, primarily from the Mississippi Delta, a weeklong immersion in the nation’s capital. What have you been up to since 2020? After earning my J.D., I remained enrolled at Georgetown Law and earned my LL.M. in National Security Law. Since 2020, I have been hard at work in the Mississippi Delta — applying the skills I learned while in law school. As an Equal Justice Works Fellow, I have sat in observation of over 700 civil cases in justice court throughout the Mississippi Delta helping low-income community members navigate the justice court system. As a lawyer at the Mississippi Center for Justice, I have organized farmworkers in the Mississippi Delta and brought a law suit on their behalf against predatory farm owners for discriminatory practices that cheated workers out of their wages for decades. In the cold of winter, in Greenville, Mississippi, I helped struggling parents access documentation necessary to prevent their eviction in the middle of the coronavirus pandemic. I have traveled across numerous counties in the Mississippi Delta to help establish chapters of the Mississippi Federation of Democratic Women, which helps women get elected to office. In the face of discriminatory redistricting tactics, I taught myself how to draw redistricting lines then I worked with the Vicksburg Chapter of the NAACP to redraw county redistricting maps to ensure all community members have equal representation. I sued the State of Mississippi, specifically Governor Tate Reeves, over Mississippi’s discriminatory Supreme Court voting districts lines. Based on what you’ve learned in the past two years, what advice would you give to yourself in May of 2020? All the hard work in law school is totally worth it. Particularly, the public interest experience I gained at Georgetown Law will play a significant role as I move forward and begin my legal career. Most importantly, don’t change a thing. Take advantage of all the experiences law school has to offer, jump in head first — even when you don’t fully understand what’s going on in some of your classes. Enjoy the law school experience because you will meet some wonderful people, have some amazing experiences, and come out of law school much stronger as a person than you were when you started. A Testimonial “Between Georgetown and UCSD, I’ve had several opportunities to express my Native heritage. Each time, I’m reminded of a community that supported me and had greatly influenced my decision to pursue medicine. My end goal is to medically serve Native people, so when things get stressful at school, I remind myself who I am doing this for.” Yasmin Zuch (NHS’20), Medical Student at University of California at San Diego School of Medicine Mohamed Almenfi (MSFS’20) Born and raised in Benghazi, Libya, Almenfi worked with a group of friends to co-found an organization called Rugby 2018, which aims to build a community for young people while schools were closed due to ISIS activity in the region and teach youngsters about social responsibility, peace and mental health issues. His experience with peacebuilding, cultural diplomacy and forging a national identity inspired him to learn more from the Master of Science in Foreign Service (MSFS) program. What have you been up to since 2020? I have been working with the social protection global team at the World Bank Group as a research analyst. I have been working mainly on supporting countries during the COVID-19 pandemic and now on how governments can protect livelihood in the current price shock crisis induced by the Ukraine war. Based on what you’ve learned in the past two years, what advice would you give to yourself in May of 2020? Probably I would recommend striking the right balance between developing hard skills (e.g., data analysis and visualization) and soft skills (e.g., presentation skills) at school. What’s your favorite Georgetown memory? My favorite memory from GU is when we did the Syria negotiating simulation with top experts in the matter. This experience gave me great insight into managing and navigating such difficult country-level discussions and negotiations. Related Content Student Experience Celebrating the Class of 2020 Student Experience After 10 Internships, This 2020 Alumna Landed a Job at the White House Student Experience Human Science Alumna Focuses Future Medical Career on Health of Native Communities Learn more Tagged Alumni, Class of 2020, Commencement Contact Us Directory Visit Maps About Academic Calendar Careers Media Resources FacebookFacebook TwitterTwitter InstagramInstagram LinkedInLinkedIn YouTubeYouTube Georgetown University 37th and O Streets, N.W. Washington, D.C. 20057 P. 202-687-0100 Georgetown University Privacy Policy Copyright Web Accessibility Notice of Non-Discrimination © 2022 Georgetown University Search Georgetown Search Close the Search Dialog