Accessibility Options: Skip to Content Skip to Search Skip to footer Office of Disability Services Request Assistance 305-284-2374 Display: Default High Contrast University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Apply About UM Schools School of Architecture College of Arts & Sciences Miami Herbert Business School School of Communication School of Education & Human Development College of Engineering School of Law Rosenstiel School of Marine & Atmospheric Science Miller School of Medicine Frost School of Music School of Nursing & Health Studies The Graduate School Division of Continuing & International Education Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Search Tools People Search Class Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Search UM (Mobile) Apply Apply About UM Schools Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Academics Admissions Student Life Research UHealth Athletics Tools Popular Links Coronavirus Information News@TheU People Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement Home Search Site About U-SoA Philosophy and Mission Statement History of the School Community Outreach Accreditation Give to U-SoA Roadmap Initiative Contact Us News and Events U-SoA Now Newsletter Events Golf 2021 All News Calendar People Academic Leadership Students Faculty Alumni Staff Academics Undergraduate Graduate Design Build Travel Programs U-SoA Rome Summer Programs for High School Students Research Certificates Resources Careers Academic Services Libraries Facilities Labs and Centers Student Affairs International Affairs C.U.C.D. Admissions Admission Requirements Visit U-SoA Financial Aid and Scholarships Registration Tuition and Fees Graduate Assistantships About U-SoA News and Events People Academics Resources Admissions Search Academic Services Careers Facilities International Affairs Labs and Centers B.E. & W.R. Miller BuildLab CHIL Computer Lab CUCD Design Shop Fabrication Lab Lu_Lab Model Shop Photo Lab Rad Lab Libraries Student Affairs About U-SoA Philosophy and Mission Statement History of the School Community Outreach Accreditation Give to U-SoA Roadmap Initiative Contact Us News and Events U-SoA Now Newsletter Events Golf 2021 All News Calendar People Academic Leadership Students Faculty Alumni Staff Academics Undergraduate Graduate Design Build Travel Programs U-SoA Rome Summer Programs for High School Students Research Certificates Resources Careers Academic Services Libraries Facilities Labs and Centers Student Affairs International Affairs C.U.C.D. Admissions Admission Requirements Visit U-SoA Financial Aid and Scholarships Registration Tuition and Fees Graduate Assistantships Academic Services Careers Facilities International Affairs Labs and Centers B.E. & W.R. Miller BuildLab CHIL Computer Lab CUCD Design Shop Fabrication Lab Lu_Lab Model Shop Photo Lab Rad Lab Libraries Student Affairs Home Resources Labs and Centers AAA Labs & Centers Academic Services Careers Facilities International Affairs Labs and Centers B.E. & W.R. Miller BuildLab CHIL Computer Lab CUCD Design Shop Fabrication Lab Lu_Lab Model Shop Photo Lab Rad Lab Libraries Student Affairs GET STARTED 1 Request Info 2 Visit 3 Apply GET STARTED 1 Request Info 2 Visit 3 Apply Research Labs and Centers The University of Miami School of Architecture supports a series of Labs and Centers meant to bridge and augment both student education and faculty research. Each lab is developed around a key emerging research area within the architectural sphere. Within the Centers and Labs faculty aim to bring speciality knowledge to and share with the U-SoA. These labs also function to develop an expanded network within and outside the U-SoA to bring in new opportunities for the school and students to participate in. A brief summary of these can be found below: The C.U.C.D The Center for Urban and Community Design coordinates the School’s outreach to the community. The CUCD seeks to interface community and project needs with the core educational philosophy and goals of the School of Architecture. The CUCD’s mission is to integrate research, teaching, and service, to encourage interdisciplinary thought and action in the areas of preservation, sustainability/resiliency, civic engagement and the promotion of human welfare (humanitarianism). The LU-Lab The Litoral Urbanism Lab operates as a knowledge gathering center and project-based design group focused on the evolving dialogue binding urbanism and environment. The work of the LU_Lab acknowledges the responsibility of architecture as the curator of the constructed world to create a reciprocal relationship between the built and natural environments. Lines of inquiry will be explored through two means of investigation: interrogation and provocation. Future Objects Future Objects is a testing ground for emerging design and construction processes. As technological advances radically reshape the discipline, our laboratory is dedicated to a critical exploration of the forms and other outcomes facilitated by these tools. Future Objects embraces new means and methods – including a broad range of digital fabrication techniques, materials newly available to architecture, and simulative design environments – interrogating their limits through the medium of the installation. The UM-RadLab The RadLab provides resources and expertise for project-based research on the spatial ramifications of embedded technology and ubiquitous computing. The research is premised on the notion that every building or landscape component can be equipped with computational power. Projects at RAD-UM develop models for such digitally enhanced environments to better handle persistent and emerging challenges in the areas of healthcare, building technology and sustainability. The projects are set up for multi-disciplinary collaboration and for potential development in partnership with industry. The Fabrication Lab The U-SoA Fabrication Lab fosters a culture of learning through making. Its principal purpose is to serve students and faculty in existing and future research pursuits, by providing robust training and broad access to a host of digital and analog tools. The Lab continually improves, incorporating new technologies and expanding its capacities as a resource equal to the substantial ambitions of a top-tier architecture program. The Model Shop U-SoA’s modeling and fabrication facilities provide students the opportunity to turn their conceptual design projects into physical representations, allowing them to elaborate on the techniques learned in design courses. The fabrication facilities serve as an augmented area for exploration, prototyping, and design thinking through making. Studio assignments and research projects are pursued during the staffed lab hours under the supervision of a full time Fabrication Director and Student Lab Monitors. The Computer Lab The Computer Laboratory is U-SoA’s central resource for digital design and research. U-SoA and UMIT is committed to providing our students with the best possible environment for computer-based, collaborative teaching and research. The Photo Lab The Photo Lab at the University of Miami School of Architecture is a resource provided by the school to allow students to photograph their architectural models in a professional setting. To find out more about each lab, please see the individual links to the left of the page. Hours of Operation: Monday 9:00am - 8:00pm Tuesday 9:00am - 8:00pm Wednesday 9:00am - 8:00pm Thursday 9:00am - 8:00pm Friday 9:00am - 6:00pm Saturday 2:00pm - 6:00pm Sunday 2:00pm - 6:00pm University of Miami Coral Gables, FL 33124 305-284-2211 School of Architecture 1223 Dickinson Drive Coral Gables, FL 33146 (305) 284 3731 (305) 284 3731 Resources About UM myUM CaneLink Academic Calendar Blackboard UM Network Alumni Association Medical Center Hurricane Sports Employment Opportunities Visit Campus Map Parking & Transportation Connect social-facebook social-twitter social-youtube social-instagram Copyright: 2022 University of Miami. All Rights Reserved. Emergency Information Privacy Statement & Legal Notices