Skip to site alert. Skip to content Columbia School of Nursing Students Alumni Faculty Contact Us Search Make a Gift About Us About Us Message From the Dean Leadership Faculty Our Culture News Events Facts and Figures Accreditation Make a Gift Contact Us Our Culture Diversity and Cultural Affairs Civility Statement Social Justice and Health Equity and Anti-Racism Commitment Sustainability Our History Jonas Partnership Join Our Team Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Learn about our commitment to social justice and health equality and anti-racism. View Our Progress Academics Academics A Columbia Nursing Education Admissions at a Glance Academic Programs Courses Financial Aid Continuing Nursing Education Helene Fuld Health Trust Simulation Center Academic Programs Doctor of Nursing Practice Doctor of Nursing Practice in Nurse Anesthesia Doctor of Philosophy Masters Direct Entry Program For Non-Nurses Masters in Advanced Clinical Management and Leadership Online Prerequisites for Entry to Nursing Transgender Non-Binary (Trans NB) Health Care for Advance Practice Nurses and PAs Palliative Care Throughout the Lifespan for Advanced Practice Registered Nurses (APRNs) Admissions at a Glance Learn more about Admissions at Columbia Nursing, including important dates and deadlines, and how to apply to all of our programs. Learn More About Admissions Research Research Research Faculty and Postdoctoral Fellows Research Areas of Focus Research Centers and Programs Training Programs Research Resources Research Centers and Programs Center for Health Policy Center for Improving Palliative Care for Vulnerable Adults with MCC Precision in Symptom Self-Management Center Center for Healthcare Delivery Research and Innovations Center for Research on People of Color Center for Sexual and Gender Minority Health Research Linking to Improve Nursing Knowledge Research Areas of Focus Explore the research areas of focus conducted by our faculty, postdocs, and students. View Our Focus Areas Patient Care Global Health Global Health Global Opportunities for Students Global Research International Visitors WHO Collaborating Center Contact Global Opportunities for Students Global opportunities for clinical practicum and research may be available for MDE and doctoral students at Columbia Nursing. Get More Information You are here Home > Global Health > Global Research Global Opportunities for Students Global Research International Visitors WHO Collaborating Center Contact Global Research Opportunities to Share Learning and Deepen Global Dialogue Nursing research plays a critical role in addressing many of the world’s most pressing health issues. With a strong focus on social justice and health equity, Columbia University School of Nursing conducts global health research that supports people, groups, and communities affected by marginalization, exclusion, and exploitation. Columbia University President's Global Innovation Fund (PGIF) The President’s Global Innovation Fund (PGIF) aims to increase global opportunities for research, teaching, and service by supporting Columbia University faculty to develop projects and research in collaboration with the University’s Global Centers. The global centers are a network of hubs in regions around the world, created to enhance the quality of research and learning at Columbia University. The nine global centers are located in: Amman Beijing Istanbul Mumbai Nairobi Paris Rio de Janeiro Santiago Tunis The PGIF projects may be based in one or several of these cities, or in other locations throughout the centers' regions. By engaging with the centers, faculty benefit from the support, counsel, and a network of contacts offered by center staff. Columbia’s Global Centers encourage teaching and research across disciplinary boundaries, as well as across country boundaries. The result is that instead of faculty doing isolated pockets of work, we create and participate in broad programs that can transform our entire approach to education and global health. Jennifer Dohrn, DNP Visit the Columbia Global Centers website to learn more. PGIF Grant Awards Starting a Simulation-Based Nursing Education Program in Rural India (2019-2021) Project Leaders Kellie Bryant, DNP Assistant Professor and Executive Director of the Simulation Center Jennifer Dohrn, DNP Associate Professor and Assistant Dean, Global Health Initiatives Father Tomy Karyilakulam Director, Bel-Air Hospital of Indian Red Cross Society, Panchgani, India This project will assess nursing teaching techniques and evaluate the introduction of simulation learning in Maharashtra, India. A plan for simulation will be presented at a summit at the Columbia Global Center in Mumbai to garner support from potential funders and regulatory bodies in India. International partners for the Columbia Nursing team include Bel-Air College of Nursing in Panchgani, India, the Indian National Council, and India’s Ministries of Health and Education. External stakeholders, funders, and simulation vendors will be invited to the summit to garner support for rollout and sustainability Addressing Research Gaps on Sexual Minority Health in Chile (2019-2021) Project Leaders Tonda Hughes, PhD Henrik H. Bendixen Professor of International Nursing (in Psychiatry) and Associate Dean for Global Health Lilian Ferrer, PhD Professor and Director of International Affairs Pontificia Universidad Católica de Chile School of Nursing The project aims to conduct secondary data analyses using the 2016-2017 Encuesta Nacional de Salud, Chile’s National Health Survey, which includes a wealth of data on health status, mental health, health behaviors, sexual health, and biological measurements. The research team will focus primarily on comparisons of health conditions and health risk factors between sexual minority and heterosexual respondents. Led by Tonda Hughes, PhD, and Lillian Ferrer, PhD, the project will be conducted in collaboration with the Columbia Global Center in Santiago. Individual collaborators include Co-PI Lilian Ferrer, Professor at Pontificia Universidad Católica de Chile School of Nursing, Billy Caceres, PhD, Assistant Professor, Columbia Nursing, and three other researchers from universities in Chile. Health Status and Reproductive Health among Postpartum Syrian Women Refugees in Jordan: A Needs Assessment (2018-2019) Project Leaders Jennifer Dohrn, DNP Associate Professor and Assistant Dean, Global Health Initiatives Elaine Larson, PhD Senior Associate Dean and Anna C. Maxwell Professor of Research Professor of Epidemiology, Mailman School of Public Health Manar Nabolsi, PhD Dean, Faculty of Nursing, University of Jordan Reema Safadi, PhD Professor, Faculty of Nursing, University of Jordan Investigators conducted a needs assessment to understand the health needs and reproductive health practices of postpartum Syrian refugees who live outside of refugee camps in host communities across Jordan for the purpose of providing services responsive to Syrian women refugees in the postpartum period. Global Nursing Research Development Initiative (2015-2017) Project Leaders Jennifer Dohrn, DNP Associate Professor and Assistant Dean, Global Health Initiatives Elaine Larson, PhD Senior Associate Dean and Anna C. Maxwell Professor of Research Professor of Epidemiology, Mailman School of Public Health Fathieh Abu-Moghli, PhD Faculty of Nursing, University of Jordan Muntaha K. Gharaibeh, PhD Jordanian Nursing Council Raeda Abu Al Rub, PhD Jordan University of Science and Technology Samar Noureddine, PhD Hariri School of Nursing, American University of Beirut Cheherezade Ghazi, PhD School of Nursing, Badr University in Cairo, Egypt Elham Al Nagshabandi, DSN King Abdulaziz University College of Nursing, Saudi Arabia Arwa Oweis, DNS World Health Organization Regional Office for the Eastern Mediterranean Region (WHO EMRO) Hania Dawani, DNS Advisor Hester Klopper, PhD Chief Executive Officer of Forum for University Nursing Deans in SA (FUNDISA), President of Sigma Theta Tau International, Professor of University of the Western Cape and North-West University Address Malata, PhD Vice Chancellor of the Malawi University of Science and Technology Vice President | International Confederation of Midwives (ICM) Grace Omoni, PhD Director or School of Nursing Sciences, University of Nairobi, President, Confederation of African Midwives Associations (CONAMA), Chair, Lugina Africa Midwives Research Network (LAMRN) The goals of the project were to: establish cross-regional core working groups and a database of nursing and midwifery leaders involved in research and program evaluation; convene a Research Summit to identify regional gaps in knowledge and priorities for nursing research and mentorship; recommend strategies to address these gaps; develop a mentorship plan with access to a pool of regional and global nurse research experts; and disseminate recommended strategies that include a mentorship component to pave the way for sustainability and replication. The Elaine L. Larson Global Development Fund Columbia Nursing’s Elaine L. Larson Global Development Fund, initiated in 2018, aims to grow Columbia’s global health research portfolio by providing grants for pilot projects. Team Building for Genetic Ancestry, Social Epigenomics, and Cardiovascular Disease Risk in the Intergenerational Eastern Caribbean Health Outcomes Research Network (ECHORN) Cohort Study (2021-2022) Project Leaders Jacquelyn Taylor, PhD, PNP-BC, FAHA, FAAN Helen F. Pettit Professor of Nursing, Columbia Nursing Marcella Nunez-Smith, MD, MHS Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, Public Health, and Management, Yale School of Medicine This project will enable researchers from Columbia University School of Nursing, Yale School of Medicine ECHORN, Eastern Caribbean Islands, and Emory University to launch a multi-site collaboration aimed at reducing health inequities in cardiovascular disease among Caribbean-descent populations in Puerto Rico, the U.S. Virgin Islands, Trinidad and Tobago, and Barbados. This work will advance the understanding of the biological, environmental, and social factors that influence intergenerational cardiovascular risk over time. Support from the Elaine L. Larson Global Development Fund will specifically help build multidisciplinary teams in the U.S. and Eastern Caribbean, and establish and test methods of data collection, laboratory procedures, and data analysis. Writing to Improve Nursing Science in Malawi (WINS in Malawi) (2019-2021) Project Leader Carolyn Sun, PhD '15 This project leverages the skills of team members with the human resources that Kamuzu College of Nursing to produce several deliverables: three publishable systematic reviews, curricula for future scholarly writing workshops, and drafts of up to three specific aims pages tailored to identified funding sources. Sun’s program team includes co-investigators Maureen George, PhD and Ana Kelly, PhD faculty members at Columbia Nursing. Palliative Care Initiative in Haiti (2019-2021) Project Leaders Marie Carmel Garcon, DNP Assistant Professor of Clinical Nursing Mary Tresgallo, DNP Assistant Professor of Nursing This study is an extension of preliminary work done with nurse leaders and educators in Haiti and the University d`Etat d`Haiti over the past year. This project will focus on: Organizing and participating in an End-of-Life Nursing Education Consortium Core curriculum workshop in Haiti for nurse educators/leaders and nurse clinicians Facilitating the establishment of curricula that reflect core competencies in palliative care for nursing education Assembling a bibliography and references in palliative care for dissemination and education Conducting preliminary discussions with physicians and other health professionals to clarify and define the need for palliative care education in their respective disciplines Drafting a manuscript for publication describing the project Tuberculosis (TB) and HIV Knowledge and Case-Based Training Outcomes among Peer Educators in Maula and Kachere Prisons in Lilongwe, Malawi: A Quasi-Experimental Study (2019-2021) Project Leaders Ana Kelly, PhD, RN Associate Professor of Nursing In this quasi-experimental, two-group pretest-posttest educational intervention study, Kelly and her research team from Kamuzu College of Nursing aim to assess peer educators’ knowledge on tuberculosis and HIV in a Malawian Prison setting before and after a two-day, case-based training session. This study provides an objective measure of peer educator knowledge and effectiveness of a case-based training intervention to improve participant recall. Results will be disseminated via report and/or presentation to the prison medical staff, University of Malawi College of Medicine Research and Ethics Committee, and the Reach for Research Excellence Seminar at Columbia University School of Nursing, and submitted for peer-reviewed presentations and a publication. Additional Global Research Activities Maureen George, PhD and Jean-Marie Bruzzese, PhD are working with colleagues at the University of West Indies to explore the feasibility of implementing adult clinic-based and pediatric school-based asthma research interventional studies in Mona, Jamaica. First Fulbright Scholar Ana Kelly, PhD, Assistant Professor, is the first Columbia Nursing faculty member to receive a Fulbright award. Kelly’s project is entitled “Building Nurses’ Capacity to Implement Evidence-Based Practice in Malawi.” Columbia University Irving Medical Center NewYork-Presbyterian ColumbiaDoctors About Us Academics Research Patient Care Global Health Contact Us Students Alumni Intranet Careers Columbia University School of Nursing 560 West 168th Street New York, NY 10032 United States Follow Us Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube LinkedIn Back to top