Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Information For Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff Search BC.edu Links University Catalog Menu Main Nav University Catalog University Catalog Back Back Close Undergraduate Programs Overview Carroll School of Management Accounting Business Analytics Business Law and Society Finance General Management Information Systems Management and Organization Marketing Connell School of Nursing Lynch School of Education and Human Development Morrissey College of Arts and Sciences African and African Diaspora Studies Art, Art History, and Film Biochemistry Biology Chemistry Classical Studies Communication Computer Science Earth and Environmental Sciences Eastern, Slavic, and German Studies Economics Engineering English Environmental Studies History Interdisciplinary Programs and Minors (MCAS) International Studies Islamic Civilization and Societies Mathematics Music Philosophy Physics Political Science Psychology and Neuroscience Romance Languages and Literatures Sociology Theatre Theology University Courses Schiller Institute for Integrated Science and Society Woods College of Advancing Studies Summer Session Graduate Programs Overview Boston College Law School Boston College School of Social Work Carroll School of Management Connell School of Nursing Lynch School of Education and Human Development Morrissey College of Arts and Sciences Biology Chemistry Classical Studies Earth and Environmental Sciences Economics English History Islamic Civilization and Societies Mathematics Philosophy Physics Political Science Psychology and Neuroscience Romance Languages and Literatures Sociology Theology School of Theology and Ministry Woods College of Advancing Studies Courses Overview Boston College Law School Boston College School of Social Work Carroll School of Management Accounting Courses Business Analytics Courses Business Law and Society Courses Business Writing and Communication Courses Finance Courses Information Systems Courses Management and Organization Courses Management Elective Courses Management Required Courses Marketing Courses Portico Courses Undergraduate Management Courses Connell School of Nursing Nursing Courses Forensics Courses Palliative Care Courses Lynch School of Education and Human Development Counseling, Developmental, and Educational Psychology Courses Educational Leadership and Higher Education Courses Experience, Reflection, Action Courses Learning Engineering Courses Measurement, Evaluation, Statistics, and Assessment Courses Teacher Education and Curriculum and Instruction Courses Morrissey College of Arts and Sciences African and African Diaspora Studies Courses Art History Courses Biology Courses Capstone Courses Chemistry Courses Classical Studies Courses Communication Courses Computer Science Courses Cornerstone Courses Earth and Environmental Sciences Courses East Asian Languages and Civilizations Courses Economics Courses Engineering Courses English Courses Environmental Studies Courses Film Courses French Courses German Studies Courses Hispanic Studies Courses History Courses Italian Courses International Studies Courses Islamic Civilization and Societies Courses Jesuit Studies Courses Journalism Courses Linguistics Courses Mathematics Courses Music Academic Courses Music Performance Courses Near Eastern Languages and Civilizations Courses Philosophy Courses Physics Courses Political Science Courses Psychology and Neuroscience Courses Romance Languages and Literatures Courses Slavic Studies Courses Sociology Courses Studio Art Courses Theatre Courses Theology Courses University Courses Schiller Institute for Integrated Science and Society School of Theology and Ministry Christian Ethics Courses Course Area Unspecified Courses History of Christianity Courses New Testament Courses Old Testament Courses Pastoral Studies Courses Practical Theology Courses Religious Education Courses Systematic and Historical Theology Courses Woods College of Advancing Studies Accounting Courses Administrative Studies Courses Biology Courses Business Management Courses Communication Courses Corporate Systems Courses Criminal Justice Courses Cybersecurity Courses Economics Courses Education Courses English Courses Examined Life Courses Film Courses Finance Courses Fine Arts Courses Geology Courses Healthcare Administration Courses History Courses Information Technology Courses Journalism Courses Law Courses Leadership Studies Courses Marketing Courses Mathematics Courses Philosophy Courses Political Science Courses Psychology Courses Romance Languages Courses Sociology Courses Spanish Courses Sports Administration Courses Sustainability Courses Theology Courses Policies and Procedures Catalog Archive Close Directory A to Z Listing Search University Catalog Search BC.edu Find pages or people Search Close Close Apply Visit Give Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close Home Graduate Programs Lynch School of Education and Human Development Graduate Programs Boston College Law School Boston College School of Social Work Carroll School of Management Connell School of Nursing Lynch School of Education and Human Development Morrissey College of Arts and Sciences School of Theology and Ministry Woods College of Advancing Studies Lynch School of Education and Human Development To enhance the human condition, expand the human imagination, and make the world more just—that’s the mission driving the work of our faculty and students. We put our mission into action through teaching, research, and service—informing policy, improving practice, and preparing students to serve diverse populations in a variety of roles. And we define education expansively— as an opportunity to shape the future of humanity and our society. Toward that end, the Lynch School employs the Jesuit, Catholic holistic approach to student formation. We educate our students as whole people so they, in turn, can empower others to prosper and lead full lives. Enhancing the Human Condition We recognize that people develop and flourish across many interrelated dimensions: cognitively, emotionally, morally, socially, and spiritually. We prepare our students to transform others’ lives across each of these dimensions and at their intersections. Expanding the Human Imagination By providing us with new paradigms and new information, universities have the capacity to spur people to think differently, expanding our approaches to problems and potential solutions. Through education, we progress beyond conventional ways for understanding the world and discover unexpected patterns. Making the World More Just As a community of scholars and practitioners, we have an obligation to help people realize their aspirations, increase access to societal opportunities, and lift up those who have fewer advantages. We engage in individuals’ lives and build social contexts that promote justice, equality, and a sense of community. APSY Courses EDUC Courses ELHE Courses LREN Courses MESA Courses Lynch School Faculty Lynch School Website Introduction to Graduate Programs Department of Teaching, Curriculum, and Society Department of Educational Leadership and Higher Education Department of Counseling, Developmental, and Educational Psychology Programs in Applied Developmental and Educational Psychology Department of Measurement, Evaluations, Statistics, and Assessment Interdisciplinary Programs Dual Degree Programs Certificate Programs Introduction to Graduate Programs Consistently ranked among the top 25 schools of education and as the top-ranked Catholic school of education in the country, the Lynch School at Boston College offers 22 master’s programs, seven doctoral programs, and five dual-degree programs. Theory, research, and practice are integrated across programs, which also leverage the robust practicum opportunities available in schools, hospitals, mental health centers, and universities in the Boston metropolitan area. The Lynch School’s focus on expanding social justice is a hallmark of our programs and the work of our students and faculty. Print Open All Close All Admission Information Admission Information Information about admission is available on the Lynch School website at bc.edu/lynchschool. You may also write to: Boston College, Office of Graduate Admission, Financial Aid, and Student Services, Lynch School of Education and Human Development, Campion Hall 135, 140 Commonwealth Avenue, Chestnut Hill, MA 02467-3813, telephone 617-552-4214, or e-mail gsoe@bc.edu. The Lynch School admits students without regard to race, ethnicity, religion, age, sex, sexual orientation, marital or parental status, national origin, veteran status, or disability. The Lynch School welcomes the presence of multiple and diverse cultural perspectives in its scholarly community. Students must be formally admitted to the Lynch School Graduate Programs by a committee composed of faculty and administrators. Students may apply to degree programs or to study as a non-degree or certificate student. Consult the Lynch School admissions website for complete information. Official notification of admission is made by a written announcement—an online offer of admission—from the Lynch School. Students should not presume admission until they receive this announcement. Admitted students are required to submit a non-refundable deposit of $250 by the date stipulated in the admission letter. The deposit is applied to tuition costs for the first semester of study. Application Deadlines All admission deadlines are posted on the Lynch School website at bc.edu/lynchschool. In some cases, master’s program applications are considered beyond the deadline. While official deadlines are posted for summer/fall start, some programs may consider a spring start. Non-degree applications are considered for summer, fall, and spring start dates. Call the Office of Graduate Admission, Financial Aid, and Student Services at 617-552-4214 or e-mail gsoe@bc.edu for more information. Deferral of Admission Admission may be deferred for up to one year for those admitted to master’s degree programs. Deferral of admission to doctoral programs is at the discretion of the admitting faculty. Requests to defer admission must be submitted in writing to the Assistant Dean of Graduate Enrollment in the Office of Graduate Admission, Financial Aid, and Student Services and must be approved and confirmed by the Lynch School. The number of students admitted to Lynch School graduate programs each year is dependent upon the number of deferred students who will be matriculating in a given year. For this reason, the Lynch School requires that students who wish to defer for a semester or a year indicate this at the point of admission and return the response form with a deposit of $250.00. This will hold a space in the following year’s class and will be credited toward the first semester of study. Due to the volume of applications received each year by the Lynch School, there can be no assurances of deferred admission or that scholarship aid awarded at the original time of admission will remain available. Admission for International Students International Students (non-U.S. citizens who are not permanent U.S. residents) may find information about admission and an online application on the Lynch School website at bc.edu/lynchschool. Prospective students may also write to: Boston College, Office of Graduate Admission, Financial Aid, and Student Services, Lynch School of Education and Human Development, Campion Hall 135, 140 Commonwealth Ave, Chestnut Hill, MA 02467-3813, telephone 617-552-4214, or e-mail gsoe@bc.edu. All international student applicants for whom English is not their first language, or who do not hold a degree from an English-speaking university, must take the Test of English as a Foreign Language (TOEFL) or the International English Language Testing System (IELTS) examination and request that their score be forwarded to the Lynch School of Education and Human Development by the Educational Testing Service (ets.org). The Lynch School of Education and Human Development’s TOEFL code is 3240. Ordinarily, the Lynch School expects a minimum score of 100 on the internet-based TOEFL or a minimum score of 7.0 on the IELTS. Information on exemptions from the English proficiency exams, as well as additional testing information, is contained in the graduate application materials available on the Lynch School website. Information about these examinations also may be obtained from the Educational Testing Service (ets.org). Non-Degree Status Students not seeking a degree, but interested in pursuing course work at the graduate level, may apply for admission as a Non-Degree Student. While there is no guarantee of later admission to a degree program, many individuals choose Non-Degree Status either to explore the seriousness of their interest in studying for an advanced degree and/or to strengthen their credentials for later application for degree status. Others are interested in taking graduate course work for personal enrichment or professional development. Included among those taking courses are school counselors, teachers, administrators, and psychologists who are taking classes as a means of fulfilling professional development requirements or continuing education units. Students seeking non-degree student status must submit the online application form on the Lynch School admissions web page. Although there is no limit on the number of courses Non-Degree Students may take, no more than four courses (12 semester hours), if appropriate, may be applied toward a degree program in the Lynch School. Courses taken as a Non-Degree Student may be applied to a degree program only after official acceptance into a degree program and with the consent of the student’s advisor. Due to space limitations, all courses may not be available to Non-Degree Students. Practicum coursework associated with teacher licensure or counseling psychology licensure is reserved for matriculated degree students in these programs. Students who wish to become certified or licensed must gain admittance to a graduate degree program in the desired area. Other courses are restricted each semester to maintain class size. Individuals considering Non-Degree Student status may seek advising from the Office of Graduate Admission, Financial Aid, and Student Services. Non-degree students are not eligible for University sponsored sources of financial aid or any financial aid that requires matriculation in a degree program. Fifth Year/Early Admit Programs The Fifth Year Program and Early Admit Program offer academically outstanding Boston College juniors a unique opportunity to begin graduate study during their undergraduate senior year, allowing them to graduate with a bachelor’s and a master’s degree in a shortened amount of time. All undergraduate juniors in the Lynch School of Education and Human Development, Morrissey College of Arts and Sciences, Connell School of Nursing, and Carroll School of Management are eligible to apply for these programs. In consultation with an advisor, students have the ability to take up to two graduate-level courses in their senior year. In addition to the time advantage, there is a considerable savings involved. Students accepted in the Fifth Year/Early Admit program will be able to apply two approved graduate courses (6 credits) towards both their bachelor's degree (120 credits) and their master's degree (30 credits or more). Upon successful completion from the undergraduate program, senior year coursework and the additional graduate-level courses are reviewed and a determination about formal admission into the graduate program is made. In the spring semester of their senior year, Fifth Year/Early Admit students will receive an official offer of admission to the Lynch School Graduate Program. Students interested in the Fifth Year/Early Admit Program should contact the Office of Graduate Admission, Financial Aid, and Student Services in Campion Hall 135 or at 617-552-4214. Students can also e-mail gsoe@bc.edu and learn more at the Fifth Year/Early Admit Program page. Financial Aid Financial Aid Students admitted to Lynch School graduate programs are eligible to access several forms of financial aid opportunities, including Lynch School scholarships and fellowships, graduate assistantships, research assistantships, teaching fellowships, teaching assistantships, Federal loans and work-study, and private loans. Lynch School scholarships and fellowships are tuition remission scholarships offered to incoming students that have been identified for being exceptionally promising in their chosen fields of study and for contributing to our student body’s diversity—including intellectual, economic, racial, cultural, geographical, and gender. Scholarship and fellowship awards are offered at the time of the admission decision and are based solely on materials submitted in a completed application. No additional application or materials are required. Applicants that have submitted a complete application by the December 1 or January 6 deadlines will receive the strongest consideration for these awards. Many offices and departments in the Lynch School and across campus hire graduate students and provide assistantships for work in their area. The work varies by department, but may include a stipend, tuition remission, or both. The levels of stipend and/or tuition remission vary by individual roles. Because each individual assistantship is supervised by a specific department on campus, deadlines vary based on the needs and availability of individual supervisors and/or departments. The University’s Financial Aid Office administers the Federal loan programs, which include Unsubsidized Stafford loans, Perkins loans, and work-study. If you are applying for any of these loan programs through Boston College, please consult the Office of Student Services Graduate Financial Aid web page. Sources of external scholarship funding may be obtained through outside sources such as local civic organizations, religious organizations, educational and research foundations, or banks. Applicants are advised to do an internet search for potential external scholarships. Urban Education Funding Donovan Urban Teaching Scholars Program Donovan Urban Teaching Scholars is an intensive one-year master’s degree program in teacher preparation. Each year, the program recruits and supports a cohort of up to 30 graduate students. Students in this program: Receive tuition remission covering a minimum of 50% to a maximum of 100% of tuition costs for the M.Ed. degree May be eligible for the Sharp Urban Teaching Scholarship, which provides additional financial support to highly talented graduate students who are from underrepresented groups and are committed to teaching in urban schools. Details on the Donovan Urban Teaching Scholarship can be found on the Lynch School Donovan Program website. Urban Catholic Teacher Corps (UCTC) Urban Catholic Teacher Corps is an academically rigorous and experientially rich, Catholic school teacher preparation program that prepares students to be excellent Catholic school teachers who are actively engaged in the ministry of teaching urban students in the Roman Catholic Archdiocese of Boston. Participants live together, actively engaging in an intentional faith-based living and learning community where faith is actively incorporated, individuals are loved and supported, and all experiences and perspectives are shared and respected. All students in this program: Receive 100% tuition coverage for the M.Ed. degree in Curriculum and Instruction Have all rent and utilities paid for in the required UCTC community housing. Receive a $600 pre-tax stipend per month over the two years of program participation to cover living expenses. The Lynch School Catholic Education Award provides partial tuition assistance to students who are currently working in Catholic schools. There are a separate application and additional requirements for UCTC. Please note that the application deadline is also earlier than the normal deadline for teacher education programs. Licensure and Program Accreditation Licensure and Program Accreditation Many of the teacher education and administration programs offered by the Lynch School have been designed to comply with current standards leading to initial and professional licensure for educators in the Commonwealth of Massachusetts. Through the University’s accreditation by the Interstate Certification Compact (ICC), a program of study preparing for educator licensure in Massachusetts, will also provide graduates, through reciprocity, with facilitated opportunities for licensure in most other states. Licensure is granted by the state, and requirements for licensure are subject to change by the state. Students seeking licensure in Massachusetts must pass the Massachusetts Tests for Educator Licensure (MTEL). Especially in the case of out-of-state students, it is the responsibility of the student to plan a program that will lead to licensure in a given state. Staff in the Office of Field Placement and Partnership Outreach (Campion 102, 617-552-4206, prac@bc.edu) can help with most teacher and administrator licensure questions. The teacher education programs at Boston College are accredited by both the Commonwealth of Massachusetts Department of Elementary and Secondary Education (DESE) and nationally by the Teacher Education Accreditation Council (TEAC). Mental health and school counselor licensure questions should be addressed to the Office of Graduate Admission, Financial Aid, and Student Services at 617-552-4214. The 60-credit M.A. in Mental Health Counseling fulfills the educational requirements for licensure as a mental health counselor in Massachusetts, and the M.A. in School Counseling meets the educational requirements for licensure in school counseling in Massachusetts. Students seeking school counseling licensure in Massachusetts must pass the Massachusetts Tests for Educator Licensure (MTEL). Students are encouraged to check the requirements for the states in which they eventually hope to obtain licensure. The School Counseling sequence is designed to meet the professional standards recommended by the Interstate Certification Compact (ICC), Massachusetts Department of Education. This sequence is designed to meet the educational requirements for licensure as a school counselor in the state of Massachusetts. Licensure is granted by the state Department of Education and requirements are subject to change by the state. Students seeking licensure in Massachusetts must pass the Massachusetts Tests for Educator Licensure. The 60 credit-hour Mental Health Counselor sequence of study reflects the professional standards recommended by the American Counseling Association and the Massachusetts Board of Allied Mental Health and Human Services Professionals. This sequence is designed to meet the pre-master’s educational requirements for licensing as a Mental Health Counselor in the state of Massachusetts. Licensing is granted by the Massachusetts Board of Allied Mental Health and Human Service Professionals and the requirements are subject to change by the state. Students, for all programs, should check the requirements in other states where they may choose to live and work. The doctoral program in Counseling Psychology is fully accredited by the American Psychological Association. Degree Programs Degree Programs Through its various graduate programs, the Lynch School offers the M.Ed., M.A., M.S., M.A.T., M.S.T., Ph.D., and Ed.D. degrees. The Lynch School also offers programs leading to a Certificate of Advanced Educational Specialization (C.A.E.S.). Our graduate programs serve a dual purpose: Research: Preparing students in research-based knowledge of their profession with specialized competence in the evaluation of educational and psychological innovations, and in basic and applied quantitative and qualitative research methodologies. Practice: Preparing students to apply knowledge in appropriate areas of specialization to practice in both academic and nonacademic settings. Doctoral Degree Programs General Requirements for the Degree of Doctor of Philosophy The Ph.D. is granted for distinction attained in a special field of concentration and demonstrated ability to modify or enlarge a significant subject in a dissertation based upon original research. Doctoral studies are supervised by the student’s advisor, department chairperson, and the Associate Dean of Students. The Ph.D. is granted in the Lynch School in the following areas: Curriculum and Instruction Higher Education Counseling Psychology Applied Developmental and Educational Psychology Measurement, Evaluation, Statistics, and Assessment Upon admission to a doctoral program, the doctoral student will be assigned an academic advisor. The Doctoral Program of Study should be designed by students in consultation with their advisors during the first or second semester of coursework. A formal Program of Study must be filed with the student’s advisor and the Academic Department Office. Programs of Study for all programs are available on the Lynch School’s website at bc.edu/lynchschool. Doctoral students in the Lynch School, in addition to coursework, complete comprehensive exams before being admitted for doctoral candidacy. Doctoral students also complete a doctoral dissertation. Current information on policies and procedures regarding doctoral degree programs is provided online at the Doctoral Policies and Procedures page. General Requirements for the Degree of Doctor of Education The Professional School Administrator Program (PSAP) provides an opportunity for full-time administrators to obtain their Massachusetts superintendent licensure and a Doctor of Education (Ed.D.) degree in Educational Leadership. The program is grounded in the core values of the Lynch School, with coursework focusing on leadership for learning, social justice, diversity, anti-racism, and community building. The intensive, three-year program is taught by full-time university faculty and knowledgeable, skilled school leaders, with personalized support for students from mentor superintendents. The Executive Ed.D. in Higher Education develops justice-minded leaders with the skills, mindsets, and technical knowledge to match the changing pace of higher education. The innovative, data-informed curriculum emphasizes socially just leadership that is transformational, mission-driven, and focuses on iterative design-thinking, which equips graduates with the skills and agility to effect lasting change. Designed for experienced administrators, with a minimum of 5–10 years of experience in higher education, this part-time, three-year program pairs online coursework during the academic year with in-person week-long summer residencies. The program culminates in a practice-based capstone project that integrates content across the curriculum. Certificate of Advanced Educational Specialization (C.A.E.S.) The C.A.E.S. course of study is designed for currently practicing educators who already have a master’s degree and seek a higher level of specialization in Curriculum and Instruction or professional licensure in administration. For further information on C.A.E.S. programs in Educational Leadership, Special Education, Reading/Literacy, and Curriculum and Instruction, contact Boston College, The Office of Graduate Admission, Financial Aid, and Student Services, Lynch School of Education and Human Development, Campion Hall 135, 140 Commonwealth Avenue, Chestnut Hill, MA 02467-3813, telephone at 617-552-4214, or e-mail gsoe@bc.edu. Master's Degree Programs While candidates may apply to master’s programs while still completing an undergraduate degree, candidates must be graduates of an accredited college or university by their program’s start date. The Office of Graduate Admission, Financial Aid and Student Services, Campion 135, provides academic and financial aid services for master’s students throughout their studies in the Lynch School. Master of Education Degree (M.Ed.) The Master of Education is awarded in the following areas: Early Childhood Education Elementary Education Secondary Education Special Education* Curriculum and Instruction Global Perspectives: Teaching, Curriculum, and Learning Environments Educational Leadership and Policy Jesuit Education in a Global World *The M.Ed. program in Special Education includes the following areas of concentration: Moderate Support Needs, Grades Pre-K–8 and Grades 5–12, Students with Extensive Support Needs Pre-K–12. Master of Arts in Teaching and Master of Science in Teaching Degrees (M.A.T./M.S.T.) M.A.T. and M.S.T. for Initial Licensure The M.A.T./M.S.T. Initial Licensure programs are designed for students who have graduated with a major in liberal arts or sciences and who wish to prepare for teaching in the secondary school, for experienced teachers in secondary schools who do not yet hold a license, and for recent college graduates already prepared to teach at the secondary level who want to earn an additional area of expertise and/or licensure. These degrees are coordinated with the appropriate Graduate School of the Morrissey College of Arts and Sciences department and require more coursework in Arts and Sciences than the M.Ed. degree in Secondary Teaching. Only one application to the Lynch School is necessary for admission. Students may prepare in the following disciplines: Biology, Chemistry, Earth and Space Science, English, Foreign Language (Spanish or French), History, Mathematics, or Physics. Programs are described under the section of this manual on programs in Teacher Education/Special Education and Curriculum and Instruction. Master of Arts Degree (M.A.) The Master of Arts degree is given in the following areas: Higher Education International Higher Education School Counseling Mental Health Counseling Learning Engineering Research and Evaluation Methods Master of Science Degree (M.S.) The Master of Science degree is given in the following area: Applied Statistics and Psychometrics These programs are described in each departmental section of this catalog. Course Credit A minimum of 30 graduate credits is required for a master’s degree. Specific programs may require more credits. No formal minor is required. All graduate students cannot transfer more than six graduate credits from another institution. Only courses in which a student has received a grade of B or better, and which have not been applied to a prior degree, will be accepted. If approved, the transfer course and credit, but not the grade, will be recorded on the student’s academic record. Credit received for courses completed more than ten years prior to a student’s admission to his or her current degree program are not acceptable for transfer. A Masters Transfer Request Form should be completed and signed by the student’s academic advisor and then sent, along with an official transcript from the institution, to the Office of Graduate Admission, Financial Aid, and Student Services. Programs of Study In the second semester of matriculation, students must complete a Program of Study in consultation with their academic advisor and/or the Associate Director of Student Services in the Office for Graduate Admission, Financial Aid, and Student Services. Program of Study forms are available on the Lynch School website at the Master's Program page. These forms must be approved and filed with the Associate Dean of Students. Department of Teaching, Curriculum, and Society The Department of Teaching, Curriculum, and Society (TCS) prepares educational leaders for instructional and administrative roles in public and private schools, in institutions of higher education, and in related organizations. The intent is to provide a blend of scholarship, disciplined inquiry, and professional experiences that will develop the sound understanding, practical skills, ethical values, and social responsibilities that are required of competent educators. Student programs are individualized under the guidance of a faculty advisor, with special consideration given to each student’s career goals and licensure requirements. The list of specific courses required for each program is available on the Lynch School website under Programs of Study. Print Open All Close All Areas of Concentration Areas of Concentration Programs and courses in Teacher Education are designed to prepare educators in the areas of elementary and secondary teaching, early childhood education, and special education. In addition, master’s programs are available in Curriculum and Instruction and Global Perspectives, along with a doctoral program in Curriculum and Instruction. Teacher preparation programs are designed for individuals interested in working in elementary and secondary schools, both public and private, as well as early childhood and special needs programs and facilities. The Lynch School prepares outstanding teachers in both theoretical and practical dimensions of instruction. The doctoral program in Curriculum and Instruction prepares students for college and university teaching, research positions, and/or school leadership positions. Master’s candidates can include the Teaching English Language Learners (TELL). TELL prepares educators to teach bilingual learners in English-only classrooms, while the certificate requires students to complete EDUC7621 Bilingualism, Second Language and Literacy Development and EDUC6346 Teaching Bilingual Students, as well as requires students to work with English language learners in English-only or Dual-Language classrooms, respectively. Licensure Licensure Endorsement of candidates for initial Massachusetts teaching licensure is a collaborative effort between the student’s Lynch School supervisor and cooperating teacher. The Lynch School offers graduate programs designed to prepare students for teaching licensure at the master’s and C.A.E.S. levels. A student seeking licensure must be admitted as a degree candidate. Programs are approved by the Interstate Certification Compact (ICC), allowing students easier access to licensure outside Massachusetts. The following are licenses available from the state department of Massachusetts through completion of a Lynch School program: Early Childhood Teacher Elementary Teacher Teacher of English, Foreign Language, Mathematics, History, Physics, Chemistry, Biology, and Earth Science Specialist Teacher of Students with Moderate Support Needs (pre-K–8, 5–12) Specialist Teacher of Students with Extensive Support Needs (pre-K–12) Note: Students who plan to seek licensure in states other than Massachusetts should check the licensure requirements in those states. Students seeking licensure in Massachusetts must pass the Massachusetts Tests for Educator Licensure (MTEL). Practicum Experiences Practicum Experiences Practicum experiences are an essential part of the curriculum in licensure programs and should be planned with the respective faculty advisor early in the student’s program. Practicum experiences for licensure in Teacher Education are offered at the Initial Licensure level for Massachusetts. Students seeking licensure in Massachusetts also must pass the Massachusetts Tests for Educator Licensure (MTEL). All field experiences for students enrolled in Lynch School degree programs are arranged and approved through the Office of Field Placement and Partnership Outreach (Campion 102, 617-552-4206, prac@bc.edu). The following are prerequisites for students who are applying for practica and clinical experiences: GPA of B or better (3.0 or above) Satisfactory completion of required pre-practica or waiver from the Assistant Dean, Field Placement Completion of 80 percent of the course work related to required Education courses, including methods courses in the content area and courses required for initial licensure Application in the Office of Field Placement and Partnership Outreach A full practicum is characterized by the five professional standards as required by the Massachusetts Department of Education. Student teachers must demonstrate competence in these five standards during their practicum experience: plans curriculum and instruction, delivers effective instruction, manages classroom climate and operation, promotes equity, and meets professional responsibilities. If, for any reason, a student is unable to complete the full practicum, an extended practicum (additional time in the field) will be required by arrangement of the Assistant Dean, Field Placement. Placement sites for local field experiences are in Boston and neighboring areas. Students are responsible for providing their own transportation to and from these schools. Transportation to schools often requires that the student have a car; however, some schools are accessible by public transportation. Carpooling is encouraged. If transportation cannot be independently arranged, students will be given preference for locations that are accessible via public transportation. Teaching, Curriculum, and Society Programs Print Open All Close All Master of Education (M.Ed.) in Early Childhood Education Master of Education (M.Ed.) in Early Childhood Education The master’s degree program in Early Childhood Education focuses on developmentally appropriate practices and critical thinking skills. This program is appropriate for students who wish to be prepared to teach children who are typically developing as well as children with moderate disabilities in a general education, pre-K–2 classroom. Students can enter the program without teaching licensure. The prerequisite for either program is a college degree with an Arts and Sciences major or equivalent. Students who have majored in other areas, such as business or engineering, should consult the Office of Graduate Admission, Financial Aid and Student Services. At completion of the program, students will be able to demonstrate: The teacher candidate will promote the learning and growth of all students by providing high-quality and coherent instruction, designing and administering authentic and meaningful student assessments, analyzing the student performance and growth data, using the data to improve instruction, providing students with constructive feedback on an ongoing basis, and continuously refining learning objectives. The teacher candidate will promote the learning and growth of all student through instructional practices that establish high expectations, create a safe and effective classroom environment, and demonstrate cultural proficiency. The teacher candidate will promote the learning and growth of all students through ethical, culturally proficient, skilled and collaborative practice. The teacher candidate will demonstrate an inquiry stance by collecting and reporting data on pupil outcomes for the purpose of assessing, teaching, and modifying instructional practice. The teacher candidate will identify policies and practices that contribute to systemic inequities in education and be aware of how his or her own background experiences are influenced by these systems, and recognize a professional responsibility to promote and practice principles of social justice teaching. Master of Education (M.Ed.) in Elementary Education Master of Education (M.Ed.) in Elementary Education The Elementary Education program leads to licensure in grades 1–6. The program stresses a humanistic approach to teaching that is both developmentally appropriate and intellectually challenging. Graduate students participating in the Elementary Education program will learn to promote student development, how to teach for social justice, and how to reflect on practice to improve instruction. They will be prepared to work with students of a variety of backgrounds creating classroom environments that engage all students. At completion of the program, students will be able to demonstrate: The teacher candidate will promote the learning and growth of all students by providing high-quality and coherent instruction, designing and administering authentic and meaningful student assessments, analyzing the student performance and growth data, using the data to improve instruction, providing students with constructive feedback on an ongoing basis, and continuously refining learning objectives. The teacher candidate will promote the learning and growth of all students through instructional practices that establish high expectations, create a safe and effective classroom environment, demonstrate cultural proficiency, and knowledge about language challenges in academic settings. The teacher candidate will promote the learning and growth of all students through ethical, cultural proficient, skilled, and collaborative practice. The teacher candidate will demonstrate an inquiry stance by collecting and reporting data on pupil outcomes for the purpose of assessing, teaching, and modifying instructional practice. The teacher candidate will identify policies and practices that contribute to systemic inequalities in education and be aware of how his or her own background experiences are influenced by these systems, and recognize a professional responsibility to promote and practice principles of social justice teaching. The prerequisite for the program is a bachelor’s degree with an Arts and Sciences or interdisciplinary major or equivalent. No prior teaching licensure is required for admission. The program of study includes foundations and professional courses, and practicum experiences. Courses of study are carefully planned with the faculty advisor to ensure that both degree requirements and licensure requirements are fulfilled. For the applicants seeking a master’s in Elementary Education, undergraduate transcripts will be audited for mathematics courses. It is expected that applicants have completed a two 3-credit mathematics course equivalent in Arts and Sciences. If applicants do not fulfill this requirement, they will be advised to take the needed courses. Master's Programs (M.Ed., M.A.T., M.S.T., and C.A.E.S.) in Secondary Education Master's Programs (M.Ed., M.A.T., M.S.T., and C.A.E.S.) in Secondary Education Students in secondary education can pursue either a Master of Education (M.Ed.), a Master of Arts in Teaching (M.A.T.), or a Master of Science in Teaching (M.S.T.). These degree programs lead to (8–12) licensure in one of the following disciplines: Biology, Chemistry, Earth and Space Science, English, Foreign Language (Spanish or French), History, Mathematics, or Physics. Upon completion of the program in Secondary Education graduates will be able to: The teacher candidate will promote the learning and growth of all students by providing high-quality and coherent instruction, designing and administering authentic and meaningful student assessments, analyzing student performance and growth data, using this data to improve instruction, providing students with constructive feedback on an ongoing basis, and continuously refining learning objectives. The teacher candidate will promote the learning and growth of all students through instructional practices that establish high expectations, create a safe and effective classroom environment, and demonstrate cultural proficiency. The teacher candidate will promote the learning and growth of all students through effective partnerships with families, caregivers, community members, and organizations. The teacher candidate will promote the learning and growth of all students through ethical, culturally proficient, skilled, and collaborative practice. The teacher candidate will promote an inquiry stance of critical reflection about personal practice through individual and collaborative inquiry in service of improving pupil academic, emotional, and social learning. The prerequisite for the program is a bachelor’s degree with a liberal arts major in the field of desired licensure or an equivalent. Students who do not have the prerequisite courses must take discipline area courses before being admitted into a degree program. All prerequisite courses must be taken before taking the practicum. Check with the Office of Graduate Admission, Financial Aid, and Student Services (617-552-4214; gsoe@bc.edu) if you have questions. In addition to required courses in the field of education, secondary education master’s degrees require a number of courses taken at the graduate level in the Morrissey College of Arts and Sciences department of specialization. M.Ed. students take a minimum of two graduate courses, and M.A.T./M.S.T. students take five graduate courses in their disciplinary area. Courses of study are carefully planned with a faculty advisor. All of the master’s programs leading to licensure in secondary education include practicum experiences in addition to coursework. M.A.T./M.S.T. applicants file only one application to the Lynch School. All Lynch School admissions requests should be addressed to Boston College, The Office of Graduate Admission, Financial Aid, and Student Services, Lynch School of Education and Human Development, Campion Hall 135, 140 Commonwealth Avenue, Chestnut Hill, MA 02467-3813, telephone 617-552-4214, or e-mail gsoe@bc.edu. Master of Education (M.Ed./C.A.E.S.) in Curriculum and Instruction Master of Education (M.Ed./C.A.E.S.) in Curriculum and Instruction The master’s degree program in Curriculum and Instruction consists of a planned program with a minimum of 30 graduate credit hours. Four courses in Curriculum and Instruction are required. Programs of study are planned in consultation with a faculty advisor to meet each candidate’s career goals and needs. This degree program does not lead to licensure, nor are students in this program eligible to apply for supervised practicum experiences. This program is for: U.S. students who already possess an initial license and want to enhance learning further in their area of licensure; International students who wish to engage with foundational and leading edge thinking and thinkers on curriculum, pedagogy, and educational reform; All candidates who want to explore new areas of interest such as policy, teacher leadership, teaching English Language Learners, universal design for learning, assessment, and special education; Students interested in Curriculum Design and Instructional Design; Private school educators, Boston College students enrolled in the fifth-year program, and educators from areas such as publishing, curriculum design, and museum education; Classroom teachers who wish to become educational leaders in their schools and districts. At the completion of the program, students will be able to: Develop and clarify their philosophy of education, in particular, their beliefs regarding the purposes and processes of effective curricular organization; Become familiar with different ways to conceptualize a school curriculum and with major curriculum designers, both past and present; Assess their own experiences with educational and curricular change as a means to gain greater insight into educational and institutional change processes writ large; Examine approaches to multicultural education, anti-racist education, and inclusion that aim to transform the curriculum; Explore the tensions and possibilities that face teachers day-in and day-out in the current social and political context; Learn alternative strategies for assessment that provide multiple and authentic measures of student learning; Analyze existing curricula in terms of various philosophical orientations; Examine implications and applications of learning theories as drawn from teachers in elementary and secondary schools as well as from professionals working in higher education and contexts outside of formal schooling; Consider how school curricula and pedagogical practices can be structured to promote social justice and democratic citizenship. Special Education Licensure Programs Special Education Licensure Programs Master of Education (M.Ed./C.A.E.S.) in Special Education in Moderate Support Needs, Grades Pre-K–8 and Grades 5–12 This program prepares teachers to work with students with mild to moderate disabilities (also known as high incidence disabilities) such as: attention deficit/hyperactivity disorder, specific learning disability, emotional and behavioral disorders, and mild developmental disabilities—including autism spectrum disorders. Based on the program option they select, students will learn about assessment and instructional practices at the elementary or secondary schooling levels, consistent with teacher licensure options in Massachusetts and many other states. The goal of the program is to prepare teachers to work in a variety of roles including: lead teacher, special education teacher, and learning specialist, as well as to collaborate with general education regular teachers and educators, other services providers and parents. The program leads to initial licensure. Students who have not earned general education licensure will be required to take additional courses. At completion of the program, students will be able to demonstrate: How to develop learning goals and experiences responsive to the developmental and learning needs of students with special needs, including ways that are responsive to language, cultural, and family backgrounds; How to work collaboratively with students and professional colleagues in a variety of instructional settings; How to plan individually-appropriate curriculum through the IEP as well as in inclusive classroom settings; How to use formal and informal assessments to plan instruction for pupils in ways that reduce bias and to monitor learning progress; How to use evidence-based practices to advance the learning of students with disabilities. Practices will include uses of technology and augmentative and alternative communication; How to plan for and work with students and colleagues for successful transition preparation; How to use ethical and professional practices that respond to language, cultural, and familial diversity. Applicants who have completed a regular education preparation program can enter directly into the program. Applicants with no previous regular education preparation program must apply for both regular and special education programs. For this reason, students become licensed in regular and special education. Financial aid is available in the form of paid internship experiences in local school systems and in some private schools. Master of Education (M.Ed./C.A.E.S.) in Special Education for Extensive Support Needs, Pre-K–12 The Boston College program in Severe and Multiple Disabilities prepares teachers to work with students who have moderate to severe intellectual disability, autism, and additional disabilities (such as visual impairment, deafness, cerebral palsy, and medical conditions). The program leads to eligibility for the Massachusetts teaching license in Severe Disabilities. Additional specializations in deafblindness or autism are available. No prior teaching license is required for admission. The Program of Study include two routes, one for those who already have a teaching license (in any area) and one for those who do not. The Severe and Multiple Disabilities Program is founded on close linkages between current research and best practices in teaching. Students may be enrolled on a full or part-time basis. At completion of the program, students will be able to demonstrate: How to teach to the strengths and needs of all students with severe disabilities, including those with additional sensory disabilities; How to implement evidence-based practices and best practices to apply when assessing and teaching children with severe and multiple disabilities; How to be fully competent in writing the appropriate sections of the Individualized Education Plan (IEP) and as a participant in associated meetings; How to select assessment instruments appropriate to each child and to conduct assessments to produce findings that support valued and meaningful instruction; How to engage parents in the planning and generalization of their child’s educational program; How to plan, implement, and evaluate comprehensive communication systems in collaboration with others; How to teach content from the general curriculum as well as functional academics, skills of daily living, prevocational and vocational skills, play and social-emotional competencies to address the needs of the whole child; How to keep meaningful data on student learning and behavior and to make data-based decisions; How to create learning environments that promote engagement and learning; How to promote the learning and growth of all students through ethical, culturally proficient, skilled, and collaborative practice. For those students employed in approved Intensive Special Needs programs, practicum requirements are individualized and may be completed within the work setting. The program of study expands on and builds upon a prerequisite education foundation through the development of competencies that are research and field-based and consistent with the highest professional standards of the field. Dual Licensure Programs in Special Education M.Ed. in Elementary Education and Extensive Support Needs M.Ed. in Elementary Education and Moderate Support Needs M.Ed. in Moderate and Extensive Support Needs M.Ed. in Secondary Education and Moderate Support Needs Master of Education (M.Ed.) in Global Perspectives: Teaching, Curriculum, and Learning Environments Master of Education (M.Ed.) in Global Perspectives: Teaching, Curriculum, and Learning Environments This program is for teachers who see how the world is changing. They believe deeply in the mission and potential of equitable education and want to be able to prepare their students for the future. The program will explore educational viewpoints across a wide range of cultures and countries. Based on these perspectives, graduates will learn how to design effective curriculum to serve diverse and increasingly globalized student populations and improve the common good. Through conducting a problem-solving form of research involving one or more cycles of actions and reflection—drawing both on international research perspectives and generating solutions in local contexts—graduates will develop valuable collaborative action research skills. The program welcomes the participation of individuals or teams of educators ready to collaborate. Teachers and other educational professionals with a bachelor’s degree and two or more years of professional experience in schools and other educational related settings preferred. The program can be completed totally online. Graduates from the Global Perspectives program will learn to: Develop self-knowledge, meaning, and a sense of purpose as an educator; Create effective learning environments (through curriculum design and instructional practice) that reflect an increasingly globalized student population; Identify, pose, and solve education problems, and assess opportunities; Apply action research studies in response to authentic problems encountered in a variety of educational settings; Contribute to and access a robust collaborative network of educators working to address today's educational challenges. Teaching English Language Learners (TELL) Certificate Program Teaching English Language Learners (TELL) Certificate Program For Candidates in a Licensure Program All students who successfully complete a teacher licensure program in the Lynch School will earn the required Massachusetts Sheltered English Immersion (SEI) Endorsement. This SEI endorsement meets state regulations for working with bilingual learners/English language learners as a core academic teacher in Massachusetts. In addition, however, Lynch offers the option of the Teaching English Language Learners (TELL) Certificate Program, a deeper and more extensive preparation for working with bilingual learners/English Language Learners. For candidates in a licensure program this entails adding one course: EDUC7621 Bilingualism, Second Language and Literacy Development for graduates. All TELL certificate program participants are strongly encouraged to work with ELLs in their full practicum sites. For Candidates in a Non-Licensure Program Students who are not enrolled in a teaching licensure program may also complete the TELL certificate program. These students complete EDUC7621 Bilingualism, Second Language and Literacy Development as well as EDUC6346 Teaching Bilingual Students and are required to work with English language learners in an instructional setting. The TELL certificate program for students who are not enrolled in a licensure program is ideal for candidates seeking to work with English language learners abroad or in contexts in the United States where Massachusetts SEI Teacher Endorsement is not required. For more information please contact Dr. Mariela Paez, paezma@bc.edu or Dr. Anne Homza, anne.homza@bc.edu. Donovan Urban Teaching Scholars Program Donovan Urban Teaching Scholars Program The Donovan Urban Teaching Scholars program is open to master’s students specifically interested in urban teaching. To qualify for the program, students must be accepted into one of the Master of Education licensure programs in teaching listed above. All Donovan Scholars must complete a teacher education program in Early Childhood, Elementary, Secondary, or Moderate Special Needs. A cohort of 30 students is selected each year from students applying to an M.Ed. teacher licensure program and financially supported from the Donovan Scholars program, which provides a minimum of 50% tuition remission. Master of Education (M.Ed.) in Jesuit Education in a Global World Master of Education (M.Ed.) in Jesuit Education in a Global World Boston College’s new online master's program prepares students to be excellent teachers in the Ignatian tradition—reinforcing Jesuit values of social justice, formation, and reﬂection. Students emerge ready to thrive in traditional and non-traditional global education settings. Jesuit Studies courses prompt students to learn about the Jesuit and Ignatian teaching traditions and inspirations, while Global Perspectives courses provide the international lens that will enable these educators to best meet the needs of their students. The breadth of content in the Global Perspectives courses also allows students to select courses based on their interests and needs. This program consists of 12 courses for a total of 30 credits and may be completed in one and a half to two years. The program is fully online. Students have the option to take two electives that include in-person experiences. This degree program does not lead to licensure. Certificate of Advanced Educational Specialization (C.A.E.S.) Certificate of Advanced Educational Specialization (C.A.E.S.) The C.A.E.S. course of study is designed for currently licensed educators who already have a master’s degree and seek a higher level of specialization in Curriculum and Instruction. For further information on the C.A.E.S. program in Curriculum and Instruction, contact Boston College, The Office of Graduate Admission, Financial Aid, and Student Services, Lynch School of Education and Human Development, Campion Hall 135,140 Commonwealth Avenue, Chestnut Hill, MA 02467-3813, telephone 617-552-4214, or e-mail gsoe@bc.edu. Doctoral Program (Ph.D.) in Curriculum and Instruction Doctoral Program (Ph.D.) in Curriculum and Instruction The doctoral program in Curriculum and Instruction is for people who hold, or plan to assume, leadership positions in curriculum, instruction, and teacher education in schools, school systems, or other related instructional environments. It is also designed for candidates who are preparing for a career in curriculum and instruction or teacher education at the college, university, or staff development level. Courses and related program experiences are designed to develop scholarly methods of inquiry in teaching, teacher education, curriculum development and evaluation, and professional development. There is a complementary emphasis on designing and researching effective instruction. Students who plan to work in school settings may pursue programs that will help them develop expertise in several areas of instruction such as mathematics, literacy, technology, science, history, or combinations thereof. Students who plan to work at the post-secondary level may pursue specialties in curriculum or teacher preparation in a specific subject area. The program of study requires a research core that will familiarize students with quantitative and qualitative research methodology and develop the candidate’s expertise for analyzing and conducting research. Also required are advanced-level core courses in curriculum and teaching theory, research, and practice. Upon graduation, Ph.D. students in our program should be able to: Students will demonstrate knowledge of effective practices regarding college-level teaching and/or professional development with in-service teachers. Students will demonstrate the ability to conduct original, empirical and/or conceptual research related to topics in curriculum and instruction. Students will participate in regional, national and/or international conferences in the broad areas of curriculum and instruction. Students will learn how to create an academic paper at the “publishable” level of quality on a topic related to the student’s area of specialization within the broad field of curriculum and instruction. Programs of study are carefully planned on an individual basis to help candidates meet their goals related to scholarship, professional, and career paths. Throughout their doctoral programs, candidates work closely with faculty in research and teaching activities related to one of four areas of specialization: Language, Literacy, and Culture; Critical Perspectives on Schooling: Race, Class, Gender, Disabilities Specialization; Leadership, Policy, and Educational Change; and Math, Science, and Technology. Department of Educational Leadership and Higher Education The Department of Educational Leadership and Higher Education prepares educational administrators and leaders of educational institutions ranging from pre-schools, to K-12, public, Catholic, charter schools to universities, to post graduate institutions. Graduates are prepared to bring perspectives from sociology, psychology, history, and philosophy, as well as social justice and public policy to their analysis and articulation of educational issues. Course work and field-based learning experiences develop reflective practitioners who integrate theory with practice. Courses in the department encompass these primary themes: Social justice Diversity Reflective practice Partnerships and collegiality Courses in the various programs of study explore how economic, societal, political, and global forces change the way people think about schooling, educational leadership, and the post-secondary administration. To keep up with the constantly changing world there have been broad shifts in the knowledge and skills required of educational leaders today: From technical skills to interpersonal skills From command and direction to consensus building and motivating From resource allocation to being accountable for learning processes and outcomes From campus administrators to coordinator of institutional and community services From policy recipient to shaping and informing policy These shifts have been reflected in courses throughout the Educational Leadership and Higher education programs. The list of specific courses required for each program is available on the Lynch School website under Programs of Study. Programs in Educational Leadership Print Open All Close All Master of Education (M.Ed.) in Educational Leadership and Policy Master of Education (M.Ed.) in Educational Leadership and Policy The Master of Education (M.Ed.) in Educational Leadership and Policy prepares graduates to assume leadership roles both within schools and within the greater community. Prospective applicants are diverse; they include educators, policymakers, religious officials, community-based organizers, and professionals seeking to make meaningful changes in the field of education. Often, applicants have a background in teaching and aspire to expand their leadership beyond the classroom. While teachers work directly with students, educational leaders work to determine the systems serving students. The program, characterized by discernment and critical reflection, aims to educate the whole person to live a life of meaning and purpose. Drawing on social-justice values and leadership strategies, graduates will inform organizational cultures and processes, boldly improving equitable opportunities for traditionally marginalized students. Graduates, trained in critical inquiry and the use of evidence, will approach student development from a holistic perspective, engaging the whole community to support the whole child. The program can be completed fully online or as a hybrid program. We serve both students who are seeking a master’s degree as well as students who are looking to obtain additional training but do not require a master’s degree. The M.Ed. in Educational Leadership and Policy is a program approved and monitored by the Department of Elementary and Secondary Education in Massachusetts (DESE). Formal learning outcomes were developed by the DESE and apply to all students, whether or not they are seeking licensure. They are as follows: Instructional Leadership: The school leader promotes the learning and growth of all students and the success of all staff by cultivating a shared vision that makes effective teaching and learning the central focus of schooling. Management and Operations: The school leader promotes the learning and growth of all students and the success of all staff by ensuring a safe, efficient, and effective learning environment, using resources to implement appropriate curriculum, staffing and scheduling. Family and Community Engagement: The school leader promotes the learning and growth of all students and the success of all staff through effective partnerships with families, community organizations, and other stakeholders that support the mission of the school and district. Professional Culture: The school leader promotes success for all students by nurturing and sustaining a school culture of reflective practice, high expectations, and continuous learning for staff. Graduates from the Educational Leadership and Policy program will learn to: Practice critical self-reflection and discernment. Foster an ethical, mission-driven school or educational environment/organization. Create structures that advance organizational and professional learning. Observe, assess, and support effective teaching and instructional practices. Advance equity and agency across multiple constituencies. Certificate of Advanced Educational Specialization Degree Program (C.A.E.S.) Certificate of Advanced Educational Specialization Degree Program (C.A.E.S.) The C.A.E.S. course of study is designed for currently practicing educators who already have a master’s degree and who do not plan to pursue a doctoral degree but seek a higher level of specialization or professional licensure in a particular field. For further information on the C.A.E.S. program in Educational Leadership, contact Boston College, The Office of Graduate Admission, Financial Aid, and Student Services, Lynch School of Education and Human Development, Campion Hall 135,140 Commonwealth Avenue, Chestnut Hill, MA 02467-3813, telephone 617-552-4214, or e-mail gsoe@bc.edu. Doctor of Education (Ed.D.) in Educational Leadership (PSAP) Doctor of Education (Ed.D.) in Educational Leadership (PSAP) The Lynch School offers a three-year accelerated doctoral program for practicing school administrators—the Professional School Administrators Program (PSAP). This program provides an opportunity for full-time administrators to obtain their superintendent licensure and a Doctor of Education in educational leadership. The Lynch School of Education partners with the Massachusetts Association of School Superintendents and Teachers21 to prepare future superintendents and school leaders for public, Catholic, charter, and independent schools. The program is grounded in the core values of the Lynch School, with coursework focusing on leadership for social justice, school reform, community building, and leadership for learning. Admission to this program is offered in alternate years and the next cohort will be admitted in 2019. Students who complete the Ed.D. program (PSAP) are expected to demonstrate: Competence in instructional leadership (district level leadership; ethics and equity; culturally proficient leadership; needs of diverse learners; collaborative; reflective; open to feedback; strong oral and written communication; self-directed; confident). Competence in management and operations (planning and implementing change; budget development; human capital analysis; school committee relationships; strategic thinking; teaming skills). Competence in family and community engagement (culturally proficient leadership; educational equity audit and diversity planning; professional development implementation; community relationships; crisis communication). Competence in professional culture (self-awareness; culturally proficient leadership; team leadership; reflectiveness and self- assessment of leadership). Competence in advanced level data collection, analysis, and interpretation of research in the field of educational leadership. Applicants must be currently practicing in their administrative area. More information is available from Boston College, The Office of Graduate Admission, Financial Aid, and Student Services, Lynch School of Education and Human Development, Campion Hall 135, 140 Commonwealth Avenue, Chestnut Hill, MA 02467-3813, telephone 617-552-4214, or e-mail gsoe@bc.edu. Programs in Higher Education Print Open All Close All Master of Arts (M.A.) in Higher Education Master of Arts (M.A.) in Higher Education The master’s degree in Higher Education prepares students for entry-level and mid-level positions in student affairs as well as in other professional areas in colleges, universities, and policy organizations. The M.A. program consists of 30 credit hours of required and elective coursework and field experiences. Most students complete the program in two academic years. Students with substantial professional experience have the opportunity to complete the program full-time in one academic year and one summer. It is also possible to complete the program on a part-time basis. In addition to a core of foundational courses in higher education, the program offers students the opportunity to focus on one of the following concentrations: Student Affairs: This concentration prepares students to work as professionals in functional areas of student affairs such as student activities, residence life, admissions, service learning, orientation, career services, and academic advising. Students gain an understanding of the foundations of higher education and student affairs and are able to link theory and practice through class projects and field experience placements. Higher Education Administration: This concentration prepares students to work as professionals in colleges and universities, policy organizations, and advocacy organizations. Students gain an understanding of the foundations of higher education with a focus on law, policy, and administration and are able to link theory and practice through field experience placements. Spirituality, Faith, and Formation: The top-ranked Catholic graduate school of education in the country, the Lynch School offers the only master’s degree in higher education that prepares students to shape the policies, practices, and intellectual life of Catholic colleges and universities while supporting the continuing formation of diverse students in their own journey of faith and spiritual development. This course of study integrates theories of student development, sociology of religion, institutional culture, leadership formation, policy development, and theological topics in a Catholic higher education setting. International Perspectives: As the top-ranked Catholic graduate school of education in the country, the Lynch School offers the only master's degree in higher education that prepares you to shape the policies, practices, and intellectual life of Catholic colleges and universities while supporting the continuing formation of diverse groups of students. This concentration integrates theories of student development with the sociology of religion, institutional culture, leadership formation, policy development, and theology within a Catholic higher education setting. At the completion of the program, students must demonstrate: Knowledge of the important issues facing higher education. Knowledge of foundational, methodological and concentration content. Demonstrated competence in communication skills, cooperation and teamwork, work quality and quantity, and job knowledge as assessed in the Field Experience Performance Review and Development Plan. Faculty advisors work with students on an individual basis to design programs of study and applied field experiences according to the individual student’s background, interests, and goals. Master of Arts (M.A.) in International Higher Education Master of Arts (M.A.) in International Higher Education Designed to provide students with a deep understanding of and a scholarly perspective on global higher education, this master’s program examines challenges and opportunities in different geographic regions, and explores such cross-cutting topics as leadership and management, economics and finance, and teaching learning, and student affairs in the field—from global and regional standpoints. The M.A. program consists of 30 credit hours of required and elective coursework and field experiences. The program may be completed in person, fully online, or through a hybrid format. Students interested in full-time study may complete the program in one academic year and one summer. Doctor of Philosophy (Ph.D.) in Higher Education Doctor of Philosophy (Ph.D.) in Higher Education The doctoral program is designed to prepare experienced practitioners for senior administrative and policy-making posts and careers in teaching/research in the field of higher education. The program has several programmatic foci that permit students to specialize in an area of interest. Among these are: Administration and policy analysis in higher education Student development and student affairs International and comparative higher education Finance and economics of higher education Organizational culture and change The academic profession In addition, students may choose other topics which are relevant to the administration of post-secondary education and to research. Upon completing the program, students should demonstrate: Knowledge of the important issues facing high education from a multi-disciplinary perspective (history, sociology, philosophy, psychology, economic, and political science). Knowledge of theoretical and empirical knowledge in the field. Knowledge of managerial and policy-making issues in the field. Knowledge of research methodologies and research ethics and applications. A special feature is the Center for International Higher Education, linking the Lynch School’s Higher Education program with Jesuit colleges and universities worldwide. This initiative, as well as other international efforts, provides a significant global focus to the higher education program. The doctoral program requires 54 credit hours of coursework, 48 of which must be beyond the 7000 level. At least six credit hours of dissertation direction is needed. The Ph.D. program is organized into several tiers of study. These include a core of foundational studies in higher education; methodological courses; specialized elective courses in higher education and related fields, including research seminars; and research. In the context of a rigorous selection of courses, students are encouraged to pursue their own specific interests in higher education. Executive Doctor of Education (Ed.D.) in Higher Education Executive Doctor of Education (Ed.D.) in Higher Education The Executive Ed.D. in Higher Education develops justice-minded leaders with the skills, mindsets, and technical knowledge to match the changing pace of higher education. The innovative, data-informed curriculum emphasizes socially just leadership that is transformational, mission-driven, and focuses on iterative design-thinking, which equips graduates with the skills and agility to effect lasting change. The program leverages the resources of the Lynch School's prestigious Center for International Higher Education to integrate course topics into the global higher education context. As an extension of Boston College's scholarship in Catholic education, students have the option to pursue a concentration in Catholic Higher Education—currently the only graduate program with this unique degree concentration in the United States. Designed for experienced administrators, with a minimum of 5–10 years of experience in higher education, this part-time, three-year program pairs online coursework during the academic year with in-person week-long summer residencies. The program consists of 14 courses for a total of 48 credits. The program culminates in a practice-based capstone project that integrates content across the curriculum. Learning Outcomes Critically analyze contemporary issues in American and international higher education to guide data-informed decision making Lead change and innovation in higher education through the effective mobilization of physical, financial, technological, and human resources Develop a learner-centered, whole-person mindset that advances diversity, equity, and inclusion in higher education Resolve complex challenges in higher education through the integration of design-thinking and strategic planning Produce professional writing connected to scholarly and research literature that addresses current problems of practice in higher education For those pursuing a concentration in Catholic Higher education: Articulate and strategically animate and assess the characteristics of a vibrant Catholic college and university in the twenty-first century Department of Counseling, Developmental, and Education Psychology The Department of Counseling, Developmental, and Educational Psychology (CDEP) department promotes psychosocial well-being, positive social change, and social justice through innovative and rigorous teaching, research, and professional training in applied and counseling psychology. The department engages in psychological research and its applications to advance more equitable and socially just policies and practices in partnership with diverse local, national and global communities. CDEP programs prepare students to engage in culturally informed research and practice within and across disciplines and settings. Programs in Counseling and Counseling Psychology Programs in Counseling and Counseling Psychology have, as a mission, the preparation of mental health counselors and school counselors at the master’s level and counseling psychologists at the Ph.D. level for competent professional practice in schools, universities, and a variety of non-school health care delivery settings. The primary focus of the multi-level program is the facilitation of healthy functioning in clients and a respect for individual and cultural differences. Competencies are developed in psychological theories of personality and behavior, human development, counseling strategies, and career development. Developmental concepts are integrated with supervised practice through field placements and varied instructional approaches. The list of specific courses required for each program is available on the Lynch School website under Programs of Study. Print Open All Close All Master of Arts (M.A.) in Mental Health Counseling Master of Arts (M.A.) in Mental Health Counseling The Lynch School’s Master of Arts program in Mental Health Counseling prepares students for careers as mental health counselors and/or to pursue doctoral studies in psychology or other fields. A core component of the Master's in Psychology and Counseling Accreditation Council's (MPCAC)-accredited program, consistent with the University’s broader mission and Jesuit tradition, is an emphasis on social justice. Graduates are prepared to serve the mental health needs of individuals, groups, communities, and systems across contexts and cultures, and to promote and advocate for social change. The program's training emphasizes both academic and applied experiences that incorporate developmental-contextual and multicultural frameworks to understand and promote mental health and well-being in diverse populations. Students receive a broad background in counseling and mental health theories, develop strong counseling skills, engage in reflective scholarship, gain core professional competencies, and master scientifically informed best practices. They graduate ready to practice contemporary counseling. The Master of Arts degree in Counseling is a two-year program with two tracks: The 60-credit hour program meets the educational requirements for licensure as a Mental Health Counselor (LMHC) in the Commonwealth of Massachusetts. Graduates of this program are ready for entry-level counseling positions and, with postgraduate supervision and experience, prepared to obtain licensure and advanced skills/specialization. Students in the 60-credit sequence are expected to take one required course during the Summer Session. They may also take additional elective courses during the Summer Session if they wish to reduce their course load during the second year in the program. During the first year of the program students complete a year-long course, Foundations of Counseling I and II, which includes an intensive, counseling skills training lab experience. In the second year, students complete a combined Practicum-Internship experience of between 700 and 900 hours in a community setting while completing academic requirements. The 48-credit program prepares students for further studies in counseling or fields in which a solid counseling foundation is valuable. Our graduates have gone on to pursue doctoral degrees in psychology and further studies in public policy, law, and business. Each program requires students to complete a practicum experience. Please note: the Boston College M.A. in Mental Health Counseling meets licensure requirements in 47 states. The program does not meet licensure requirements in Florida, Kentucky, or North Carolina. If you have any questions about licensure, please contact the Counseling Practicum Office at macounselingprac@bc.edu. At completion of the program, students will be able to: Demonstrate foundational training in, and foster identification with, the field of counseling. Become competent as practitioners and knowledgeable of the ways in which science influences practice and practice influences science. Understand the nature of social justice in their professional work and to infuse this perspective into their practice. Master of Arts (M.A.) in School Counseling Master of Arts (M.A.) in School Counseling The School Counseling program is a 48-credit hour track that is accredited by the Massachusetts Department of Elementary and Secondary Education and that meets current Massachusetts requirements for initial licensure as a school counselor at the PreK-8 and/or the 5-12 grade levels. The M.A. in School Counseling is also accredited by the Master’s in Psychology and Counseling Accreditation Council (MPCAC) for the period of March 2017 through March 2027. The first year of the program is devoted primarily to course work; however, School Counseling students do spend one day a week at a school in their second semester to meet pre-practicum requirements. The second year of the program consists of a full-year, 600-hour practicum placement and the completion of remaining academic requirements. At completion of the program, students will be able to: To demonstrate foundational training in, and foster identification with, the field of psychology generally, and counseling and school counseling, specifically. Become competent as practitioners, and knowledgeable of the ways in which science influences practice and how practice can inform scientific investigation. Promote social justice in their professional work. Doctor of Philosophy (Ph.D.) in Counseling Psychology (APA accredited) Doctor of Philosophy (Ph.D.) in Counseling Psychology (APA accredited) The doctoral program in Counseling Psychology, through advanced course work and supervised internships, builds on prior graduate training and professional experience. Using a developmental framework and a scientist-practitioner model of training, the program helps students acquire the following competencies: ability to comprehend and critically analyze current literature in the field; understanding of major theoretical frameworks for counseling, personality, and career development; skills to combine research and scientific inquiry; knowledge and practice of a variety of assessment techniques; respect for and knowledge of diverse client populations; ability to provide supervision, consultation, and outreach; commitment to the ethical and legal standards of the profession including sensitivity to individual, gender, and cultural differences; and demonstrated competencies with a variety of individual and group counseling approaches in supervised internships. At the completion of the program: Students demonstrate foundational knowledge, and identification with, the field of psychology, generally and counseling psychology, specifically. Students demonstrate competency as theorists, researchers, and scholars, who are knowledgeable of the ways in which practice influences science. Students demonstrate competency as practitioners and are knowledgeable of the ways in which science influences practice. Students demonstrate social justice practices in their professional work. The doctoral program in Counseling Psychology accepts applications from applicants with a master’s degree prior to applying as well as from applicants who wish to pursue their doctoral education directly after their undergraduate education (Direct Admit). The doctoral program (Ph.D.) in Counseling Psychology is accredited by the American Psychological Association (Office of Program Consultation and Accreditation, 750 First Street, NE, Washington, DC 20002; 202- 336-5979) and is designed to qualify candidates for membership in that organization and Division 17 (Counseling Psychology). The program is designed to provide many of the professional pre-doctoral educational requirements for licensure as a Psychologist in the Commonwealth of Massachusetts and for inclusion in the National Register of Health Care Providers. Licensure requirements in Massachusetts include an additional year of post-doctoral supervised experience. The entering doctoral student who has not completed all of the educational prerequisites for the M.A. in Counseling must complete them during the initial year of enrollment in the doctoral program. Decisions regarding this aspect of the student’s coursework will be based on a review of the student’s background by the assigned advisor and the director of doctoral training. Once admitted, doctoral students are required to complete courses in each of the following broad areas that fulfill the basic professional training standards: scientific and professional ethics and standards, research design and methodology, statistical methods, psychological measurement, history and systems of psychology, biological bases of behavior, cognitive-affective bases of behavior, social bases of behavior, individual differences, and professional specialization. The Ph.D. in Counseling Psychology requires a minimum five years of full-time academic study, doctoral comprehensives, and advanced practica, including a year of full-time internship and successful defense of a dissertation. Other departmental requirements for the Ph.D. are discussed above. Programs in Applied Developmental and Educational Psychology The theoretical orientation of the programs in Applied Developmental and Educational Psychology is development and learning in sociocultural context. The programs are designed to develop expertise in integrating theory, research, and application to the development of children, adolescents, and adults. Two degrees are offered: the master’s degree in Applied Developmental and Educational Psychology and the doctoral degree in Applied Developmental and Educational Psychology. The doctoral program in Applied Developmental and Educational Psychology accepts applications from applicants with a baccalaureate or master’s degree in psychology or a related field. Most applicants have some research experience as well as practice/education experience in the field. Doctor of Philosophy (Ph.D.) in Applied Developmental and Educational Psychology We prepare graduate students to serve diverse populations in a variety of professional roles as teachers and researchers in colleges and universities and as researchers and leaders in applied settings, including schools, government agencies, and health and human services organizations. Faculty situate their work within the mission of the Lynch School, which is to improve human well-being through teaching, research, and service. The focus of the Applied Developmental and Educational Psychology Program is on development and learning in sociocultural context. Areas of program expertise within the study of child development and child functioning include cognitive and socioemotional development from the preschool years through adolescence. We also have expertise on adult functioning in community settings. Development is examined, in both research and curriculum, across multiple, interactive contexts or levels. These levels include: Individual Functioning Basic Processes Individual Differences Developmental Disabilities Biological Bases of Behavior Interpersonal Processes Family Relationships Peer Relationships Parenting Community, Cultural, and Public Policy Schools and Learning Environments Poverty Race and Ethnicity Gender Upon completion of the Ph.D. program, graduates will be able to: Demonstrate knowledge of the major concepts and theories in the field of child development. Critically evaluate existing research and integrate research findings across studies. Analyze applied and theoretical issues related to child development from different theoretical perspectives and based on prior research findings. Develop research questions reflecting basic and applied issues in the areas of education, social policy, and human/community development. Use appropriate methodology to design empirical studies addressing research questions. Use a variety of quantitative and qualitative techniques for analyzing data. Communicate research findings clearly and accurately in publications and presentations for both professional and lay audiences. Teach courses in the field and the college and graduate level. The range of careers available to Applied Developmental and Educational Psychology graduates with a Ph.D. includes university teaching, research, advocacy, consultation, and positions in business, governmental agencies, and human service organizations. The program guidelines promote active engagement in research with faculty mentors for all students throughout their doctoral program. In addition to this mentored training, the curriculum requires that students take core courses in (1) social, affective, and cognitive development and the contexts of development; (2) qualitative and quantitative research methods and statistics; (3) professional development and teaching preparation; and, (4) application to practice and policy. In addition, students develop expertise in targeted areas of psychology through selected elective courses and through their research and practice experiences. Finally, students with a particular interest in human rights and social justice can obtain a Certificate through the BC-based Center for Human Rights and International Justice. Department of Measurement, Evaluations, Statistics, and Assessment Studies in Measurement, Evaluation, Statistics, and Assessment are designed to prepare researchers with specialized competence in testing, assessment, applied statistics, the evaluation of educational programs, and research methodology for the social sciences and human services. Print Open All Close All Master of Arts (M.A.) in Research and Evaluation Methods Master of Arts (M.A.) in Research and Evaluation Methods The Measurement, Evaluation, Statistics and Assessment (MESA) program at the Lynch School combines the study of research design, statistical methods, and testing and assessment with a research focus on major contemporary education policy issues. The program is designed to prepare students for research and academic careers in education, social sciences, and human services. Upon completion of the M.A., graduates should be able to: Understand the theory of research, evaluation, statistics, measurement and assessment methodology. Critically analyze published quantitative and qualitative research. Interpret and report quantitative and qualitative designs, procedures, and results. Communicate research findings effectively. The master’s program prepares graduate students with fundamental skills in testing, assessment, the evaluation of educational innovations, and in quantitative and qualitative social science research methods. A minimum of 30 credit hours and satisfactory performance on a comprehensive examination are required for the M.A. degree. Master of Science (M.S.) in Applied Statistics and Psychometrics Master of Science (M.S.) in Applied Statistics and Psychometrics The Applied Statistics and Psychometrics program at the Lynch School combines the study of research design, statistical methods, and testing and assessment with a research focus on major contemporary education policy issues. The program is designed to prepare students for research and academic careers in education, social sciences and human services. Upon completion of the M.S., graduates should be able to: Understand the theory of applied statistics and psychometrics. Conduct analyses using advanced procedures such as multiple regression, multivariate models, hierarchical linear modeling, causal modeling, and longitudinal analyses. Interpret and report quantitative and qualitative designs, procedures, and results. Design, conduct, analyze, interpret and report both Classical Test Theory and Item Response Theory analyses. Communicate research findings effectively. The MESA Master of Science meets the need for quantitative specialists to conduct statistical analyses, design quantitative research studies, and develop measurement scales for educational, social, behavioral, and health science research projects. This program meets the increasingly higher expectations of applied research organizations and funding agencies, (e.g., the Institute for Education Sciences and the National Science Foundation), for master’s-level specialists trained in quantitative designs, statistical procedures, and measurement methodology applicable to a wide variety of projects. A minimum of 30 credit hours and satisfactory performance on a comprehensive examination are required for the M.S. degree. Doctor of Philosophy (Ph.D.) in Measurement, Evaluation, Statistics, and Assessment Doctor of Philosophy (Ph.D.) in Measurement, Evaluation, Statistics, and Assessment This program prepares researchers with specialized competence in testing, assessment, the evaluation of educational innovations, and in quantitative and qualitative social science research methodology. A student without a master’s degree may apply directly to the doctoral program in Measurement, Evaluation, Statistics, and Assessment; however, note that this Direct Admit option is appropriate only when the applicant has demonstrated exceptional academic achievement and has acquired relevant research experience. Emphasis is on the research methodology and data analysis and includes advanced coursework in research design, statistical methods, and testing and assessment as well as seminars in statistical and measurement topics. MESA students have the opportunity to tailor coursework to their particular interests and background. The doctoral degree requires a minimum of 54 credits beyond a master’s and satisfactory completion of comprehensive exams and a dissertation. Students are expected to develop an understanding of modern techniques of test construction and evaluation, design of research and experiments, univariate and multivariate statistical analysis of data, and psychometric theory. Training and experience are provided in the use of specialized computer software for statistical analysis. Upon completion of the Ph.D., graduates should be able to: Understand the theory of research, evaluation, statistics, measurement and assessment methodology. Critically analyze published quantitative and qualitative research. Construct both cognitive and affective measurement instruments and assessments. Conduct original empirical research related to topics in education, evaluation, statistics, measurement, assessment, and policy. Interpret and report quantitative and qualitative designs, procedures, and results. Communicate research findings effectively. Since the important issues in these areas require more than technical solutions, the program also attends to non-technical social, ethical, and legal issues. Care is taken to design programs of study and experience according to the individual student’s needs, interests, and goals. Students may choose an additional concentration in Developmental and Educational Psychology, Educational Policy and Reform, Curriculum and Instruction, Educational Leadership, or other area. Graduates of the program are qualified for academic positions in university departments of education and social sciences. They also are qualified for research and testing specialist positions in universities, foundations, local education agencies, state and regional educational organizations, and in research and development centers. Interdisciplinary Programs The Lynch School of Education and Human Development takes a multifaceted view of education—one that is transformative and focused on the whole person. Interdisciplinary programs integrate the epistemological strengths of the Lynch School’s four academic departments to enhance the practice of our graduates and the outcomes of learners. Master of Arts (M.A.) in Learning Engineering Interdisciplinary and experiential, this one-year, full-time program prepares you to design engaging and effective learning experiences that are informed by the learning sciences and incorporate cutting-edge technologies. Learning engineering is the systematic application of principles and methods from the learning sciences to support and better understand learners and learning. The discipline leverages human-centered design approaches to iteratively develop and improve design solutions that address specific learning needs and opportunities—often using technology. The program is built around a well-facilitated and increasingly challenging experiential core. Three-credit courses and one-credit modules emphasize the knowledge and skills needed to develop design and leadership capabilities and improve understanding of learning. Our program is designed as a cognitive apprenticeship in which you participate as an active member of a knowledge-building community with teachers, mentors, and peers. Hands-on learning through a design studio every semester, opportunities to shadow groups engaged in designing for learners, and internships with local organizations. Classes and modules designed specifically to support you as you learn what you need to thrive as a learning engineer. You’ll use what you learn in classes to guide the decisions you make while completing studio projects. Reflection—you will continuously reflect on your experiences and the design challenges you face, using those reflections to develop new insights. You’ll track your thinking, record and justify your decisions, continually identify what you learn, and synthesize across your experiences in the Reflective Seminars. Throughout the program, you’ll develop the expertise and imagination to design learning experiences that dynamically engage learners’ interests, passions, and prior knowledge. You will also acquire interpersonal and leadership skills that will prepare you to thrive as leaders and collaborators. How people learn and what influences their engagement. You will be introduced to the theoretical foundations of how people learn, pedagogies and practices for fostering learning, and how to design and use technology to engage learners. Learner-centered design and designing for diversity. You’ll master design thinking, design decision-making practices, and how to use what you learn about learning to create engaging and effective designs that address learners in all of their complexity. Design for social justice and equity. Across classes, design studio experiences, and reflective activities, you will account for the full range of social, cultural, affective, and cognitive influences on access and learning. Promoting social justice is a pillar of both Boston College’s mission and the mission of the Lynch School of Education and Human Development. Leadership skills. Whether you are a team member or a team leader in your first position, you’ll learn valuable skills and knowledge you can use to influence your team, organization, or clients. Dual Degree Programs The Lynch School offers five dual degree programs in collaboration with the Boston College Law School, the Carroll School of Management, and the School of Theology and Ministry (STM). Print Open All Close All Dual Degree Programs—Law and Education Dual Degree Programs—Law and Education The dual degree programs in law and education are designed for students interested in serving the combined legal and educational needs of students, families, and communities in our nation. They reflect the University’s mission to promote social justice and to prepare men and women for service to others. The programs prepare students to meet the needs of individuals who have traditionally not been well served by the nation’s schools. The programs are designed to serve the needs of persons who wish to combine knowledge about education and applied psychology with legal knowledge and skills to better serve their clients and constituencies. The programs offer an opportunity to further the University’s goals in promoting interdisciplinary inquiry and integrating the work of service providers. Students admitted to the program may expect to receive both a master’s degree in Education (M.Ed. in Curriculum and Instruction or Educational Leadership or M.A. in Higher Education) and the Juris Doctor (J.D.) degrees in approximately three and a half years, or three years and two summers, rather than the four or more years such degrees would normally entail if taken separately. Students must matriculate and spend at least one semester of residence in the Lynch School. Students seeking to pursue the J.D./M.Ed. or J.D./M.A. dual degree must file separate applications to, and be admitted by, both their intended Education program in the Lynch School and the Boston College Law School. Any student seeking licensure or human services licensure must meet all of the requirements in the Lynch School for that licensure. Students seeking licensure in Massachusetts must pass the Massachusetts Tests for Educator Licensure (MTEL). All Lynch School admissions requests should be addressed to: Boston College, The Office of Graduate Admission, Financial Aid, and Student Services, Lynch School of Education and Human Development, Campion Hall 135, 140 Commonwealth Avenue, Chestnut Hill, MA 02467-3813, telephone 617-552-4214, or e-mail gsoe@bc.edu. The BC Law School accepts applications from mid-September through March 31 for the class entering in August. Contact them directly for further information at Office of Admissions, BC Law School, 885 Centre Street, Newton Centre, MA 02459, 617-552-8550. Dual Degree Program—Higher Education and Business Administration (M.A/M.B.A.) Dual Degree Program—Higher Education and Business Administration (M.A./M.B.A.) This dual degree program will provide students in higher education with an opportunity for professional training in resource management. The M.B.A./M.A. program will prepare students to assume leadership positions in such areas as financial management, resource planning, and technology management in major universities and policy-making institutions in post-secondary education. Students admitted to the program may expect to receive both a master’s degree in education (M.A. in Higher Education Administration) and the Master of Business Administration (M.B.A.) degrees in three academic years and two summers. Students seeking to pursue the M.B.A./M.A. dual degree must file separate applications to, and be admitted by, both the Higher Education program in the Lynch School of Education and Human Development and the Carroll School of Management. All Lynch School admissions requests should be addressed to: Boston College, The Office of Graduate Admission, Financial Aid, and Student Services, Lynch School of Education and Human Development, Campion Hall 135, 140 Commonwealth Avenue, Chestnut Hill, MA 02467-3813, telephone 617-552-4214, or e-mail gsoe@bc.edu. All M.B.A. admissions requests should be addressed to the Office of Graduate Admissions, Carroll School of Management, 140 Commonwealth Avenue, Chestnut Hill, MA 02467-3813, 517-552-3920. Dual Degree Program—Counseling Psychology/Theology and Ministry (M.A./M.A.) Dual Degree Program—Counseling Psychology/Theology and Ministry (M.A./M.A.) The dual M.A. in Theology & Ministry/M.A. in Counseling Psychology program was developed by the School of Theology and Ministry and the Lynch School. It is designed for individuals who wish to pursue graduate studies that combine theories and practice in counseling and psychology with studies in religion and exploration of the pastoral dimensions of caregiving. It combines the core studies and faculty resources of the existing M.A. in Theology & Ministry (Pastoral Care and Counseling Concentration), and the M.A. in Mental Health Counseling. It prepares students to seek licensing as professional mental health counselors while also providing them with theoretical foundations for integrating pastoral ministry and counseling techniques. Students seeking to pursue the dual M.A./M.A. program must file separate applications to, and be admitted by, both the Lynch School master’s program in Counseling and the School of Theology and Ministry. Any student seeking mental health licensure or school counseling licensure must meet all of the requirements in the Lynch School for that licensure. All Lynch School admissions requests should be addressed to the Office of Graduate Admissions, Financial Aid, and Student Services, Campion 135, Lynch School, Boston College, Chestnut Hill, MA 02467- 3813, 617-552-4214. All Pastoral Ministry admissions requests should be addressed to the School of Theology and Ministry, 140 Commonwealth Avenue, Chestnut Hill, MA 02467-3921, 617-552-6506. Certificate Programs Students and professionals can enhance their knowledge and advance their careers through several certificate programs. Each program can be completed on its own or as part of a master’s degree. Interested applicants or current students may read detailed descriptions on the Lynch School Certificate Programs web page. All Lynch School Certificate and Specialization Programs requests should be addressed to: Boston College, The Office of Graduate Admission, Financial Aid, and Student Services, Lynch School of Education and Human Development, Campion Hall 135, 140 Commonwealth Avenue, Chestnut Hill, MA 02467-3813, telephone 617-552-4214, or e-mail gsoe@bc.edu. Certificate Programs Offered: Autism Spectrum Disorder Bilingual Education Child and Family Health Deafblindness Early Child Policy and Leadership Educational Policy Development Human Rights and International Justice (interdisciplinary) International Higher Education Institutional Research Positive Youth Development Serving Exceptional Learners Special Education Social Justice Leadership Teaching ELL Back To Top Back To Top Managed By University Catalog Office of Student Services Lyons Hall 103 140 Commonwealth Avenue Chestnut Hill, MA 02467 Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College