Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Office for Institutional Equity Covered Areas Policies Compliance Training Events Resources Contact Us Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact Take Action File a Complaint Request Training Prevent Sexual Violence Contact Us Home Office for Institutional Equity Training Training Opportunities Campus Training On campus training can be provided to the University of Memphis community on various topics including: Title IX and Sexual Misconduct Discrimination, Harassment, and Retaliation Mandatory Reporting Nepotism & Personal Relationships Equal Opportunity To request a training for your campus group or for more information, please contact the Office for Institutional Equity at 901.678.2713. Online Training OIE offers a number of online training modules. To access these trainings, please visit Learning Curve. Once there, follow these steps: Sign in to Learning Curve. Click the "Class Schedule/Registration" menu item. Choose "Web-based" from the menu provided. You will see the trainings below listed among the choices. Click the Register button and a link to the training module will be e-mailed to you. Available Courses Discrimination & Harassment Prevention for Higher Education Please note: The Discrimination & Harassment Prevention for Higher Education training link e-mailed to you will direct you to Workplace Answers' Preventing Sexual Harassment training module. Please use Chrome or Firefox as your Internet browser. If you have any issues, please contact Organization & Employee Development at 901.678.4231. Title IX Training Please note: The Title IX training link e-mailed to you will direct you to the Everfi web host where you will need to register for an account to access the training. If you have any issues, please contact Organization & Employee Development at 901.678.4231. Title VI Training Please note: The Title VI training link e-mailed to you will direct you to the University's Title VI training module. If you have any issues, please contact Organization & Employee Development at 901.678.4231. The University of Memphis is an Equal Opportunity/ Affirmative Action Employer Required Title IX Training All OIE staff members have been trained in handling Title IX cases using the following training materials: Title IX Sexual Harassment Training - Hogan Marren Babbo & Rose, Ltd. - August 2020 Completed by: Title IX Coordinator, Interim Title IX Coordinator, Deputy Title IX Coordinator, Sr. Coordinator Equity Programs, Equity Specialists, Compliance Officer, Hearing Officers, Appeal Officers, Advisors Associated Materials: 1: An Overview of Title IX and the Final Title IX Regulations 2: How to Conduct a Prompt, Thorough and Impartial Investigation 3: Ensuring Equity and Due Process in the Hearing Process 4: The Appeals Process 5: The Informal Resolution Process 6: The Role of the Advisor Title IX Sexual Harassment Training - Institutional Compliance Solutions - May 2020 Completed by: Title IX Coordinator, Interim Title IX Coordinator, Deputy Title IX Coordinator, Sr. Coordinator Equity Programs, Equity Specialists, Compliance Officer, Associate Dean of Students Associated materials: Breakdown and Implementation of the New Title IX Regulations Higher Education Investigator Training Level 1 Higher Education Investigator Training Level 2 Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 3/18/22 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.