Skip to main content Search Cornell Cornell Video Explore Home Browse Recent Trending Playlists Series Speakers Topics Contributors Submit MyPlaylist Play all in MyPlaylist Ask a Question tbd Name Email Address Question Send or cancel × Ask a Question Successful Thanks, ! Your question has been submitted. × Match Day 2021 at Weill Cornell Medicine Posted on March 23, 2021 By Weill Cornell Medicine facebook twitter share interactive transcript request transcript/captions live captions | MyPlaylist start: now end: now reset copy link copy embed X Student's Match Day is a momentous occasion in your careers. And Dean Choi and I are truly honored to be sharing it with you. No matter how we gather, Match Day is a singular experience. I hope you embrace and share this special moment with your loved ones and with so many others here today who care deeply about you and your success. Congratulations, class of 2021. You are thoughtful and inspiring student body. And it's been a personal privilege to be part of your journey into medicine. I have a match. Emory. Wow. OK. [INSPIRING MUSIC] I'm so, so excited to welcome you into the Weill Cornell alumni family. With the likes of amazing leaders such as Doctors Anthony Fauci, Gienn Pop, [? Mae ?] [? Jemison. ?] We thank you for everything that you do and that you will do in your career. My name is Melissa Yuan and I matched in ophthalmology at Mass eye and ear. Hi, I am Hannan. And I'm matched at the University of Washington Bonica scholarship program in anesthesiology. [INSPIRING MUSIC] You've all worked extremely hard in unusual circumstances to make the match a success. Virtual interviews and Zoom culture. We're so impressed with many of your accomplishments thus far and know you'll go on to do great things. Congratulations, everyone. And go make us proud. [INSPIRING MUSIC] Transcript Request Form Name Email Address Disability Accommodation? Disability Accommodation? Yes No Affiliation -Select- Faculty Staff Student Alumni Other Send Request Cancel X We've received your request You will be notified by email when the transcript and captions are available. The process may take up to 5 business days. Please contact cornellcast@cornell.edu if you have any questions about this request. For the second year, Weill Cornell Medicine’s traditional Match Day celebration, typically hosted on the institution’s Upper East Side campus, was virtual due to the pandemic. Graduating students found myriad ways to toast their achievements remotely with classmates, family and friends through the use of social media, video chat and small socially distanced gatherings. Related Links Read more: Joyous Match Day After Historic Year More About medicine What to watch next 4:11 MyPlaylist Minimally invasive technique treats aneurysms 1:59 MyPlaylist We Are Weill Cornell Medicine: Dr. Christopher Barbieri 4:37 MyPlaylist The Mobile Stroke Unit—Saving Lives Through Early Intervention surprise me Subscribe Submit Content Contact us RSS Cornell on YouTube Give Feedback Name Email Comments Send or cancel × Feedback Thanks for writing. We will be in touch shortly to address any questions, concerns, or technical difficulties you may have. × Schedule of Future Events There are no live broadcasts scheduled. × Email Updates See what's new on CornellCast and find out what's coming up next — and how you can take part. Subscribe to receive weekly CornellCast updates via email. Email address Subscribe or cancel × Subscribe Our hamsters have processed your subscription request and advise that the weekly update messages will contain details on unsubscribing in case you need them. × List Sent Our hamsters have processed your request and advise that a summary has been sent to the email address entered. × RSVP to this Live Event tdb tbd Enter your email below to be notified when this event begins Name Email Address Set reminder for Set reminder for 5 minutes 15 minutes 30 minutes 1 hour 1 day before the event starts. RSVP or cancel × RSVP Successful You should receive an email confirmation shortly. We will send you an email reminder before the show begins. You may request additional reminders for other times if you wish. You can also add this event to a calendar of your choice iCal/Outlook/other Google calendar For iCal, an .ics file will be downloaded to your computer or device. You may need to take additional steps to add the event to your personal calendar. × Settings Let us know your preferences and our accommodating hamsters will snap to it! Autoplay: on off Update or cancel × Follow this tbd tbd Enter your email below to be notified when new related videos become available. Name Email Address Follow or cancel × Thanks for Your Interest You should receive an email confirmation shortly. We will send you an email message when new related videos are posted. ×