Near Eastern Studies Program Off screen link: Skip to content Off screen link: Skip to search Near Eastern Studies Program Main Menu Menu About Submenu Contact Forms Programs Submenu Arabic Language Studies Hebrew Language Studies Persian Language Studies Turkish Language Studies Submenu Turkish Language Tables Language Talks Outreach Summer Study & Study Abroad Submenu Currently Not Available Poullada Lecture Series Seminar On The Near East and the World Submenu Previous Near East & The World Seminars Submenu 2013-14 Reckoning with Iraq: Ten Years Later 2014-15 Christianity in the Near East: Past, Present...Future? 2017-18 American Foreign Policy toward the Middle East Events Videos and Podcasts Events Near Eastern Studies Department TRI Geniza Lab Log in Search Search Home About NESP Section Menu Contact Forms About NESP Director of Near Eastern Studies Program Marina Rustow, mrustow@princeton.edu Undergraduate Administrator for the Department of Near Eastern Studies James LaRegina, laregina@princeton.edu Interdepartmental Committee Michael Cook, Near Eastern Studies, mcook@princeton.edu Amaney Jamal, Politics, ajamal@princeton.edu Eve Krakowski, Near Eastern Studies, eve.krakowski@princeton.edu Michael Laffan, History, mlaffan@princeton.edu Satyel Larson, Near Eastern Studies, satyellarson@princeton.edu Michael Reynolds, Near Eastern Studies, mar123@princeton.edu Daniel Sheffield, Near Eastern Studies, djs5@princeton.edu Qasim Zaman, Near Eastern Studies, mzaman@princeton.edu * Sadaf Jaffer, PIIRS- sits with committee Welcome! The Program in Near Eastern Studies provides opportunities to study the languages, modern history, and contemporary institutions of the Arab world, Iran, Israel and Turkey, as well as the Islamic World more broadly. Requirements for Admission Most students in our program come from the Departments of Anthropology, History, Politics, Religion, Sociology, or the Woodrow Wilson School of Public and International Affairs. Students from other departments who have an interest in Near Eastern studies may enter the program with the Director’s approval. Students must meet the requirements of the department in which they are concentrating in addition to those of the Program in Near East Studies. Course of Study In general, students follow the plan of study of their home department; for example, students in Woodrow Wilson School earning a PNES certificate select the Near East in the modern world as a field of concentration. Specific requirements of the Program are as follows: Language: Students who have had no relevant language training will take at least two years of Arabic, Hebrew, Hindu, Urdu, Persian, Turkish or Swahili language as elective courses. Students are encouraged to begin the study of a Near Eastern language as early as possible in order to enable them to continue it beyond the required minimum and, if desired, to offer it to meet the language requirement for the A.B. degree. The program also encourages qualified students to enroll in summer sessions in Near Eastern languages History: All students will take, as departmental courses, at least one appropriate history course in the Department of Near Eastern Studies. Students in the Department of History will take at least two such courses. Social Sciences: All students will take at least two courses treating the islamicate world that are chosen from the offerings of the Departments of Anthropology, Near Eastern Studies, Politics, Religion, and Sociology, and the Woodrow Wilson School. Junior independent work is divided between the student's department and the program. The senior thesis is written on an islamicate subject under the supervision of an islamicate specialist in the appropriate department and the Program. Students take the regular senior departmental examination given by their department, except that a portion of it deals with the islamicate fields studied. These examinations are described in the sections of this catalog for each department. Certificate of Proficiency A student who completes the requirements of the program with satisfactory standing receives a certificate of proficiency in Near Eastern studies. A student who satisfactorily completes study abroad will have this fact noted on the certificate. To Apply To apply to the Program in Near Eastern Studies, please contact Jim LaRegina, the Undergraduate Administrator for the Department of Near Eastern Studies: Back to Top Footer Program in Near Eastern Studies 110 Jones Hall -Princeton, New Jersey 08544 USA - Phone: (609) 258-9572 Footer menu Course Offerings Forms Accessibility © 2022 The Trustees of Princeton University