Skip to main content Skip to primary site menu Google Tag Manager Search form Search Explore Brown University Search Global Navigation Learn More About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life Find A to Z Index People Directory Information for Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Top Destinations Global Brown Watson Institute Graduate School Alpert Medical School School of Public Health School of Engineering Classics Home About People Academics Diversity & Inclusion News Events Alumnae/i Graduate Alumnae/i Graduate Placement The Occasional Classicist Recent Graduates Site Navigation Home About Office Hours Contact Information Faculty Bookshelf The Couch Library Stay Connected [email protected] Intranet People Faculty Affiliated Faculty Visiting Scholars & Fellows Graduate Students Staff Emeriti Faculty Office Hours Academics Undergraduate Program Study Abroad Research & Travel Funding Academic Prizes Departmental Undergraduate Group Brown Classical Journal History Submission Guidelines Graduate Program PhD Programs Classics Sanskrit Track Ancient History Reading List MA in Classics Graduate Student Symposia Graduate Alumnae/i Graduate Placement Courses Classics Greek Latin Modern Greek Sanskrit Diversity & Inclusion Diversity Statements News The Occasional Classicist Stay Connected Events Annual Lectures & Events Latin Carol Celebration Past Classics Events Alumnae/i Graduate Alumnae/i Graduate Placement The Occasional Classicist Past Volumes Recent Graduates Class of 2020 Class of 2021 Brown Classics is on Instagram! We're now on Instagram! Check our account periodically to see what exciting things Classics has been up to. Follow Us! Like Us on Facebook Did you know the Classics Department is on Facebook? Make sure you follow and like our page to keep in touch and see even more of what goes on in the department! See Our Facebook Page Classics Stands in Solidarity with Black Lives Matter The Department of Classics at Brown stands in solidarity with the Black Lives Matter movement and condemns police brutality and murder of Black people. Read More Give to the Classics Department Your generous gift will support the continued study of classical antiquity at Brown University and the lively [email protected] community. Through your donation, the Classics Department can continue to foster an innovative and collaborative program, lead ground-breaking research in the field, and achieve excellence in teaching. Make a Gift The Faculty Bookshelf The department’s faculty members are recognized internationally for their professional achievements. Here is a collection of books published by our current and emeriti faculty members. See Faculty Books Classical Studies at Brown University Like the discipline itself, which lies at the foundation of the humanities, Brown University’s Department of Classics has a long and distinguished history, stretching from the founding of the University to Brown’s latest initiatives for academic enrichment. Our undergraduate and graduate programs are among the top in the country, and Classics faculty teach courses at all levels in the languages, literatures, and cultures of ancient Greece and Rome, ranging from the beginning through the medieval and Byzantine periods, as well as in Sanskrit and Modern Greek. About the Department of Classics The Department of Classics is one of Brown’s original academic departments, established when Brown was founded in 1764. Learn More Studying Classics at Brown Classics at Brown provides instruction in Ancient Greek, Latin, Sanskrit, and Modern Greek languages, literatures, history, and philosophy. View programs & courses News & Announcements Check for our latest news stories and see Classics Department headlines from the past. Read More News Events & Lectures Each year, the Classics Department welcomes a number of international scholars to present lectures and host colloquia, contributing to the lively program of intellectual exchange. see upcoming events Calendar Jun 2 All Day Registration period for Summer courses for Brown undergraduates re-opens at 9:00 a.m.EDT and remains open until Wednesday June 22 at 5:00 p.m. EDT > No location for this event Jun 19 All Day Residence halls open. Jun 20 All Day Juneteenth Holiday observed. No University exercises. Jun 20 All Day Summer Session opens. View full calendar > Department of Classics Department of Classics Brown University Box 1856 48 College Street Providence, RI 02912-1856 Phone: 401-863-1267 Fax: 401-863-7484 Email [email protected] Facebook Facebook Instagram Instagram Brown University Giving to Brown Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA 401-863-1000 Contact Us Maps Directions Career Opportunities Campus Safety Accessibility All Social Media © 2022 Brown University | Back to top