Skip to main content Skip to primary site menu Skip to primary site search Google Tag Manager For Faculty and Staff For Alumni For Students For Potential Students Biomed A-Z People Directory Department of Pathology and Laboratory Medicine Show/Hide Home About Us Clinical Services Education Residency Program Fellowship Program Medical (Student) Education MD/PhD Graduate Education Postdoctoral Training Undergraduate Education Diversity Initiatives Medical Technology Education Digital Pathology Library Research News Postdoctoral Training The Department of Pathology and Laboratory Medicine sponsors MD and PhD postdoctoral training at Brown and at its affiliated hospitals. Application Criteria and Requirements Postdoctoral applicants must have a PhD in a basic science discipline (cell biology, molecular biology, biochemistry), toxicology, or pathology. Three letters of recommendation and official transcripts are required. Applicants will be invited to visit Brown University and present a research seminar. Eligible applicants may be supported by a Training Grant in Environmental Pathology funded by the National Institute of Environmental Health Sciences. Training in Environmental Pathology The objective of this predoctoral and postdoctoral training program is to educate a new generation of environmental pathologists to use the tools of cell biology, biochemistry, molecular biology, and systems biology to study basic mechanisms of disease related to environmental exposures. The central focus is an independent laboratory research project to explore the pathogenesis of altered reproductive function, adverse developmental and pregnancy outcomes, the metabolic syndrome, and cancer resulting from exposure to industrial wastes and environmental contaminants including metals, plasticizers, pesticides, particulates, nanomaterials, and PAHs. Funding supports 6 predoctoral trainees enrolled in the Pathobiology Graduate Program at Brown University and for 3 postdoctoral trainees for up to three years. All trainees are required to learn the basic mechanisms and morphologic manifestations of human disease. Training is also provided in molecular pathology, imaging, environmental toxicology, signal transduction, carcinogenesis, and biostatistics. All trainees will be instructed in the responsible conduct of research and will have the opportunity to develop their communication and teaching skills at the Sheridan Center for Teaching and Learning at Brown University. Didactic courses are supplemented by weekly research seminars, student journal clubs, career development and grantsmanship workshops, and annual retreats. Opportunities are provided for clinical and translational research collaborations at Rhode Island Hospital and Women & Infants’ Hospital, as well as field work and community outreach at existing industrial waste sites and Brownfields in Rhode Island. Contact Agnes Kane, MD, PhD (401) 863-1110 [email protected] Training in Translational Pathobiology Individual post-doctoral positions are available to work in translational pathobiology, including aging and neurodegeneration, cancer pathobiology, global health research, and molecular diagnostics. Working in the laboratories of active pathology investigators, trainees will use the most modern tools of cell biology, biochemistry, molecular biology, and systems biology to study basic mechanisms of disease. The central focus is team-based research projects that explore the pathogenesis of disease with the goal of translating the findings into rapid clinical applications. Individual investigators may be contacted directly, or general exploratory inquiries may be sent using the contact information below. Contact Douglas Anthony, MD, PhD (401) 444-5011 [email protected] Residency Program Fellowship Program Medical (Student) Education MD/PhD Graduate Education Postdoctoral Training Undergraduate Education Diversity Initiatives Medical Technology Education Digital Pathology Library Brown Biology and Medicine Search Brown Show/Hide Learn More About Warren Alpert Medical School Program in Biology Research Campus Life Find A to Z Index People Directory Information for Students Faculty and Staff Potential Students Alumni Mailing Address Pathology and Laboratory Medicine Pathology and Laboratory Medicine Brown University Box G-E5 Providence, RI 02912 Phone: 401-863-3119 Email [email protected] Administrative Center Pathology and Laboratory Medicine Laboratories for Molecular Medicine 70 Ship Street Providence, RI 02903 [email protected] Giving to Brown Division of Biology and Medicine Brown University Box G-A1, Providence, RI 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-3330 Maps / Contact Us © 2022 Brown University Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram LinkedIn SnapChat