Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Undergraduate Admissions and Orientation Start Here The UofM Experience Visit Connect Apply Admitted Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact The Basics Info For... High School Freshmen Transfer International Online (UofM Global) Readmits Graduate Law School Non-Degree Seeking Parents & Families HS Counselors Application Process Deadlines Costs + Value Tuition OverviewResidency PolicyBorder County Waivers Paying for College Student Right To Know Take Action Request Information Apply to UofM Campus Visits and Events Contact Us Follow Us Online FacebooktwitterYoutube Home Undergraduate Admissions and Orientation Admissions Basics First Time Freshmen Request Info > Visit > Apply > Follow the Roar Welcome to the University of Memphis! Everything you need to explore academic programs, discover campus life, and how to apply for admission is right here. The UofM is known for giving students real-world experiences through internships and research engagement. What happens outside the classroom rounds out your academic pursuits and sets you up for success in any career. While the UofM is a big campus with more than 22,000 students, we’re also a close-knit community with amazing school spirit. Your Me + Memphis journey will get better and better with every passing day, as you get involved in clubs that interest you, find your people and feel at home. Be sure to join our mailing list before you leave and schedule a campus visit soon. At the University of Memphis, you can choose from more than 250 program areas in 12 colleges and schools. Location is key as well, so you can choose to attend on-ground in Memphis, at the UofM Lambuth campus in Jackson, TN, or anywhere you'd like through our fully-online and nationally ranked program, UofM Global. Admissions Announcements Test-Flexible Announcement: Fall 2022 Applicants We understand that high school juniors are feeling added stress around the college admission process, particularly as it pertains to cancellations of ACT and SAT test schedules. Therefore, the University of Memphis will use a test-flexible freshman application review for the entering class of Fall 2022 admission cycle. This is a one-year policy to provide an equitable and reassuring response to the needs of our future Tigers. Learn more > Self-Reported GPA & ACT/SAT Scores We're expanding our use of self-reported data so we can return an admissions decision to you quicker, without delays from waiting on an official transcript. Applicants may self-report their GPA and ACT/SAT composite scores with subscores. If you're admitted, we will require a final high school transcript to confirm your final GPA and date of graduation. If you're not admissible based on your self-reported GPA, you will be placed in supplemental review status and asked to provide more information and an official seventh-semester transcript for our next file review. Application Process Don't let applying to colleges get you stressed. Follow our easy guide to applying to UofM. Instructions > Meet Your Admissions Counselor Your counselor can help with all questions related to UofM admissions. Find Counselor > Financing Your Education Explore scholarship and financial aid opportunities. Financial Aid > Tuition Overview Learn more about fees and use the tuition calculator. Tuition > About UofM What is life on campus like? What kinds of majors are there? What housing options are there? Campus Life > After Admittance Did you receive your acceptance letter? Congrats! Complete these steps next. Admitted Students > Get Connected Follow @uofmemphis on social media to connect with fellow Tigers and stay up-to-date on news. Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 4/11/22 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.