Skip to Main Content apply now ☰ Students Parents Alumni People WyoWeb Virtual Tour Give Events A-Z Directory Admissions UW Admissions First Year Transfer International Graduate Cost of Attendance Financial Aid Scholarships Academics Explore Colleges Academic Affairs Catalog/Schedules Degree Plans Graduate Education Honors College Majors/Degrees UW at a Distance Art Museum UW Libraries Athletics NCAA Athletics Athletics Traditions Cowboy Joe Club Athletics Tickets Campus Recreation Club Sports Rodeo Intramural Sports NOLS Research Research & Econ Dev Wyoming INBRE Neuroscience Ctr Tech Business Ctr Nat Parks Service Research Prod Ctr Supercomputing Water Research WY EPSCoR/IDeA Amer Heritage Ctr UW Life Campus Safety Campus Maps Transit & Parking Res Life & Dining Diversity Student Orgs Cultural Prgms Fine Arts Campus Activities University Store UW Pride About UW Points of Pride Alumni Association Geological Museum Foundation Cowboy Parents UWyo Mag Brand Center Visit Campus Download Viewbook Give to UW UW Home Office of Research and Economic Development Office of Research and Economic Development Home Menu RoamWyo COVID-19 Advancing Research and Scholarship Announcements Business Resource Network Compliance Core Facilities and Other Resources EPSCoR Grand Teton Task Force INBRE infoed People Organizational Chart Permission to Collect Resource Data Policies and Procedures Proposal Development ProQuest Copyright and Your Dissertation or Thesis Research Reporting Units Sponsored Programs (Post-Award) Statistics Technology Transfer Training Programs Undergraduate Research Wyoming Sensory Biology Center (COBRE) Contact Us Office of Research & Economic Development Dept. 3355, 1000 E. University Avenue Old Main Room 308 Laramie, WY 82071 Phone: (307) 766-5353 Fax: (307) 766-2608 Office of Research and Economic Development The Office of the Vice President for Research & Economic Development is a service organization to the faculty, staff and students of the University of Wyoming. It is our goal to provide swift, accurate and expert service to enhance the research missions of individuals and various units within the University. To that end we have labored to place the assets within the office onto the desktops of researchers through this web site. The Office of Research & Economic Development works with faculty, staff and students in all seven colleges and UW's outreach programs to link research, technology transfer, and economic development efforts to enhance federal, state and private sector support for faculty and graduate student scholarship. In a real sense, the office coordinates the origination, organization and execution of UW's research mission with principal investigators, departments, colleges, centers and institutes. Also the Research Office through the Research Product Center, works with faculty, staff, and student inventors to identify, protect and commercialize various kinds of intellectual property. These services are provided so that scholarly activities accomplished at UW enhance the creation of the new knowledge, new applications of existing knowledge, and positively impact economic development and society in general. Advancing Research and Scholarship at the University of Wyoming: A Focus on Society’s Grand Challenges The Office of Research and Economic Development, together with Academic Affairs, is launching a research strategic planning activity that focuses on society’s grand, transdisciplinary research challenges. Learn more about the motivation, scope, and desired outcomes of this activity. Research in Wyoming Read the Wyoming Business Report special issue on research in Wyoming. UW's Economic Footprint Read the study on UW's economic footprint. Enabling Science through Computation The future is now in scientific research at the University of Wyoming Grand Challenges Week was January 31-February 4, 2022. We enjoyed presentations from each of the Planning Grant teams. Please enjoy these highlight videos. Full presentation recordings can be found here. Grand Challenges Overview The SHOW WYO Initiative The Democracy Laboratory Blockchain in Energy The UCHAT Project: Unlocking Community Health Access Together IMPACT: Innovative Methods to develop Adaptive Capacity through Transdisciplinarity AY '21-22 Research New Faculty Orientation Find the New Faculty Orientation recording here. Find the New Faculty Reference booklet here. 2021 President's Series Speaker Watch Dr. Tracey Owens Patton's presentation here. Contact Us Office of Research & Economic Development Dept. 3355, 1000 E. University Avenue Old Main Room 308 Laramie, WY 82071 Phone: (307) 766-5353 Fax: (307) 766-2608 1000 E. University Ave. Laramie, WY 82071 UW Operators (307) 766-1121 | Contact Us | Download Adobe Reader Accreditation | Virtual Tour | Emergency Preparedness | Employment at UW | Privacy Policy | Harassment & Discrimination | Accessibility