COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW WSU News - All Stories For WSU News and WSU Today content older than July 2018, Search the WSU News Archive. WSU News Archive Return to WSU News Home Filter by: All students Applied Learning Faculty/Staff Fairmount College of Liberal Arts and Sciences pandemic community Alumni College of Engineering COVID-19 Research Graduate Profiles Community Engagement Innovation Campus Life Diversity/Inclusion Scholarships Talent Pipeline Innovation Campus College of Applied Studies College of Health Professions SearchDirectory Filter Search Meet a Shocker: Chonnor Ludolph May 5, 2022 — Chonnor Ludolph was named Mr. Shocker at the athletic department’s Gold Carpet Awards in April, given to a senior who displays excellence in athletics, academics, character, service, and personal development. Ludolph finished third in the American Athletic Conference decathlon in 2021. Chonnor is one of more than 2,400 students eligible for spring 2022 graduation. Learn more about his time at Wichita State and what is next for the grad. Meet a Shocker: Lillian Nieman Dec. 6, 2021—Lillian Nieman learned how to find confidence and advocate for herself while attaining a degree in biomedical engineering from Wichita State University. Nieman is one of more than 1,100 students eligible for fall 2021 graduation. Meet a Shocker: Sierra Brown Sierra Brown chose to come to Wichita State for the welcoming environment provided by the in the Shocker Nation prior to choosing a university. While at Wichita State, she participated in the Professional Edge Program and served as president of the Barton School Dean’s Ambassadors. Meet a Shocker: Abigail Hammack Abigail Hammack, a native Wichitan, came to Wichita State because of the great reputation of the public administration program with applied learning opportunities. During her time at WSU, she was able to work as a Graduate Research Assistant at the Public Policy & Management Center at WSU and a Management Intern at the City of Andover. Meet a Shocker: Jane Lickteig May 14, 2021 — As Jane Lickteig prepares for the excitement of graduation, she reflects on her growth through the opportunities at Wichita State. She is excited to graduate because she feels prepared to take on the next chapter in her life. Meet a Shocker: Joana Lampe May 12, 2021 - Joana Lampe enjoying working with and learning from fellow social workers. Her experience at Wichita State gives her hope that her profession can help change things for the better. Joana is one of more than 3,500 students eligible for spring/summer 2021 graduation. Learn more about her time at Wichita State and what is next for the grad. Meet a Shocker: Barrett Houchen May 12, 2021 - Barrett Houchen is a disc golf enthusiast from Wichita who will start work on his master’s degree at Wichita State in biological sciences this summer. Barrett is one of more than 3,500 students eligible for spring 2021 graduation. Learn more about his time at Wichita State and what is next for the grad. Meet a Shocker: Stephanie Bristow March 11, 2021 - Stephanie Bristow, from Fredonia, enjoyed her biology research project and her work at the department’s field stations. Stephanie is one is one of more than 3,500 students eligible for spring 2021 graduation. Learn more about her time at Wichita State and what is next for the grad. Meet a Shocker: Isaac Tan May 11, 2021 - Isaac Tan came to Wichita State from Malaysia because of the university’s value and affordability. Isaac is one of more than 3,500 students eligible for spring 2021 graduation. Learn more about his time at Wichita State and what is next for the grad. Meet a Shocker: Paul Leeker May 5, 2021 — Paul Leeker, from Colwich, enjoyed his professors at Hugo Wall School of Public Affairs and their assistance in preparing him for a career as a public administrator. Paul is one of more than 3,500 students eligible for spring 2021 graduation. Learn more about his time at Wichita State and what is next for the grad. Meet a Shocker: Amber Nguyen May 6, 2021 -- Amber Nguyen came to Wichita State to stay close to home where she was offered scholarships to help cover her tuition. She participated in events and organizations on campus to network and gained experience through her design internship with the Office of Strategic Communications. Meet a Shocker: Samuel Paunetto May 6, 2021 — Samuel Paunetto spent 18 years as an ordained minister and theologian before deciding to earn a Master’s in social work. He plans to pursue a career in public policy advocacy. Meet a Shocker: Tammie Huynh May 6, 2021 — Tammie Huynh wants to work in the fashion or music industry. She currently works as a marketing intern with Strategic Communications. Meet a Shocker: Saniya Ahmed May 6, 2021 -- Saniya Ahmed came to Wichita State where she found her ideal major in health sciences and many scholarship opportunities. Since coming to Wichita State, she has helped establish the first Muslim sorority on campus, and in the nation, Mu Delta Alpha Sorority Inc., and been awarded the Phenomenal Women award by the Office of Diversity and Inclusion. Meet a Shocker: Kathy Phan May 6, 2021 -- Kathy Phan, a native Wichitan, wanted to find a university that was affordable for her, Wichita State provided that proximity to her family. During her time at Wichita State, she’s been involved in several organizations including Sigma Psi Zeta Sorority Inc., Asian Student Conference and an ambassador for the Office of Diversity and Inclusion. First Previous 1 2 3 4 5 Next Last 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©