Search | Directories | Reference Tools UW Home > Discover UW > Student Guide UW Bothell Course Descriptions UW Tacoma Course Descriptions Glossary COLLEGE OF ARTS & SCIENCES NEAR EASTERN LANGUAGES AND CIVILIZATION UZBEK Detailed course offerings (Time Schedule) are available for Spring Quarter 2022 Summer Quarter 2022 Autumn Quarter 2022 UZBEK 101 Elementary Uzbek (5) Emphasizes the four basic language skills: listening, speaking, reading, and writing in Uzbek. Focuses on exchanging real-life information in the context of the native-speaking environment and understanding Uzbek language through the cultural contexts. First in a sequence of three. Cannot be taken for credit if UZBEK 105 taken. View course details in MyPlan: UZBEK 101 UZBEK 102 Elementary Uzbek (5) Emphasizes the four basic language skills: listening, speaking, reading, and writing in Uzbek. Focuses on exchanging real-life information in the context of the native-speaking environment and understanding Uzbek language through the cultural contexts. Second in a sequence of three. Cannot be taken for credit if UZBEK 105 taken. Prerequisite: UZBEK 101. View course details in MyPlan: UZBEK 102 UZBEK 103 Elementary Uzbek (5) Emphasizes the four basic language skills: listening, speaking, reading, and writing in Uzbek. Focuses on exchanging real-life information in the context of the native-speaking environment and understanding Uzbek language through the cultural contexts. Third in a sequence of three. Cannot be taken for credit if UZBEK 105 taken. Prerequisite: UZBEK 102. View course details in MyPlan: UZBEK 103 UZBEK 105 Intensive Elementary Uzbek (15) Intensive study of grammar, with oral and written drill and reading of simple texts in Uzbek. Covers first-year Uzbek. Cannot be taken for credit if UZBEK 101, UZBEK 102, UZBEK 103 taken. View course details in MyPlan: UZBEK 105 UZBEK 201 Intermediate Uzbek (5) VLPA Designed to strengthen and develop further skills in listening, speaking, reading and writing and to deepen an understanding of the cultural context of Uzbek. Emphasis on the expansion and refinement of linguistic and communicative skills learned in elementary Uzbek. First in a sequence of three. Prerequisite: either UZBEK 103 or UZBEK 105. View course details in MyPlan: UZBEK 201 UZBEK 202 Intermediate Uzbek (5) VLPA Designed to strengthen and develop further skills in listening, speaking, reading and writing and to deepen an understanding of the cultural context of Uzbek. Emphasis on the expansion and refinement of linguistic and communicative skills learned in elementary Uzbek. Second in a sequence of three. Prerequisite: UZBEK 201. View course details in MyPlan: UZBEK 202 UZBEK 203 Intermediate Uzbek (5) VLPA Designed to strengthen and develop further skills in listening, speaking, reading and writing and to deepen an understanding of the cultural context of Uzbek. Emphasis on the expansion and refinement of linguistic and communicative skills learned in elementary Uzbek. Third in a sequence of three. Prerequisite: UZBEK 202. View course details in MyPlan: UZBEK 203 UZBEK 401 Uzbek through Culture I (5) Designed to increase functional proficiency in speaking, reading, writing and comprehending the Uzbek language through reading and discussion of contemporary sociocultural and sociopolitical topics in a culturally authentic context. Emphasis on the expansion and refinement of linguistic and communicative skills learned in intermediate Uzbek. Prerequisite: minimum grade of 2.0 in UZBEK 203. View course details in MyPlan: UZBEK 401 UZBEK 402 Uzbek through Culture II (5) Designed to increase functional proficiency in speaking, reading, writing and comprehending the Uzbek language through reading and discussion of contemporary sociocultural and sociopolitical topics in a culturally authentic context. Emphasis on the expansion and refinement of linguistic and communicative skills learned in intermediate Uzbek. Prerequisite: minimum grade of 2.0 in UZBEK 401. View course details in MyPlan: UZBEK 402 UZBEK 403 Uzbek through Culture III (5) Designed to increase functional proficiency in speaking, reading, writing and comprehending the Uzbek language through reading and discussion of contemporary sociocultural and sociopolitical topics in a culturally authentic context. Emphasis on the expansion and refinement of linguistic and communicative skills learned in intermediate Uzbek. Prerequisite: minimum grade of 2.0 in UZBEK 402. View course details in MyPlan: UZBEK 403 UZBEK 490 Supervised Study (1-6, max. 18) Special work in literary texts for graduates and undergraduates. Prerequisite: either UZBEK 203 or TKIC 423. View course details in MyPlan: UZBEK 490 UZBEK 496 Special Studies in Uzbek (3-5, max. 15) VLPA Topics vary. View course details in MyPlan: UZBEK 496 UZBEK 499 Undergraduate Research (3-5, max. 15) For Turkic language and literature majors. View course details in MyPlan: UZBEK 499 UZBEK 511 Elementary Uzbek (5) Emphasizes the four basic language skills: listening, speaking, reading, and writing in Uzbek. Focuses on exchanging real-life information in the context of the native-speaking environment and understanding Uzbek language through the cultural contexts. First in a sequence of three. View course details in MyPlan: UZBEK 511 UZBEK 512 Elementary Uzbek (5) Emphasizes the four basic language skills: listening, speaking, reading, and writing in Uzbek. Focuses on exchanging real-life information in the context of the native-speaking environment and understanding Uzbek language through the cultural contexts. Second in a sequence of three. Prerequisite: UZBEK 511. View course details in MyPlan: UZBEK 512 UZBEK 513 Elementary Uzbek (5) Emphasizes the four basic language skills: listening, speaking, reading, and writing in Uzbek. Focuses on exchanging real-life information in the context of the native-speaking environment and understanding Uzbek language through the cultural contexts. Third in a sequence of three. Prerequisite: UZBEK 512. View course details in MyPlan: UZBEK 513 UZBEK 521 Intermediate Uzbek (5) Designed to strengthen and develop further skills in listening, speaking, reading and writing and to deepen an understanding of the cultural context of Uzbek. Emphasis on the expansion and refinement of linguistic and communicative skills learned in elementary Uzbek. Prerequisite: minimum grade of 2.0 in UZBEK 513. View course details in MyPlan: UZBEK 521 UZBEK 522 Intermediate Uzbek (5) Designed to strengthen and develop further skills in listening, speaking, reading and writing and to deepen an understanding of the cultural context of Uzbek. Emphasis on the expansion and refinement of linguistic and communicative skills learned in elementary Uzbek. Prerequisite: minimum grade of 2.0 in UZBEK 521. View course details in MyPlan: UZBEK 522 UZBEK 523 Intermediate Uzbek (5) Designed to strengthen and develop further skills in listening, speaking, reading and writing and to deepen an understanding of the cultural context of Uzbek. Emphasis on the expansion and refinement of linguistic and communicative skills learned in elementary Uzbek. Prerequisite: minimum grade of 2.0 in UZBEK 523. View course details in MyPlan: UZBEK 523 UZBEK 541 Uzbek through Culture I (5) Designed to increase functional proficiency in speaking, reading, writing and comprehending the Uzbek language through reading and discussion of contemporary sociocultural and sociopolitical topics in a culturally authentic context. Emphasis on the expansion and refinement of linguistic and communicative skills learned in intermediate Uzbek. Prerequisite: minimum grade of 2.0 in UZBEK 523. View course details in MyPlan: UZBEK 541 UZBEK 542 Uzbek through Culture II (5) Designed to increase functional proficiency in speaking, reading, writing and comprehending the Uzbek language through reading and discussion of contemporary sociocultural and sociopolitical topics in a culturally authentic context. Emphasis on the expansion and refinement of linguistic and communicative skills learned in intermediate Uzbek. Prerequisite: minimum grade of 2.0 in UZBEK 541. View course details in MyPlan: UZBEK 542 UZBEK 543 Uzbek through Culture III (5) Designed to increase functional proficiency in speaking, reading, writing and comprehending the Uzbek language through reading and discussion of contemporary sociocultural and sociopolitical topics in a culturally authentic context. Emphasis on the expansion and refinement of linguistic and communicative skills learned in intermediate Uzbek. Prerequisite: minimum grade of 2.0 in UZBEK 542. View course details in MyPlan: UZBEK 543 UZBEK 596 Special Studies in Uzbek (3-5, max. 15) Topics vary. View course details in MyPlan: UZBEK 596 UZBEK 600 Independent Study or Research (*-) View course details in MyPlan: UZBEK 600 Office of the University Registrar registrar@uw.edu Modified: May 30, 2022