COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW Details: Sculpture (Studio Art), Major MajorSculpture (Studio Art) All Programs College of Fine Arts Studio Art Pursuing a Bachelor of Fine Arts (BFA) in studio art at Wichita State prepares students to be exceptional artists as well as versatile, creative professionals. Our degrees offer a unique intersection of Applied Drawing, Ceramics, Photo, Print, Sculpture and Electronic Media, and Community and Social Practice. Large studio spaces, ADCI galleries and new technology are at your fingertips. Learn how sculpture is the right fit for you. Request Info Start Your Application On and off campus, sculpture students have access to galleries of all sizes where they can showcase their creations. Applied learning at Wichita State At Wichita State, applied learning is everything. In fact, every degree we offer has a guaranteed applied learning or research experience built right into it equipping you with the relevant skills and experience to make you workforce ready before graduation. Learn about our innovative approach Admission to the program To be admitted into the School of Art, Design and Creative Industries, you must first be admitted to Wichita State. For WSU's admission requirements, and to apply, click the link below. Admission requirements Inside the Program Returning art student uses ceramics to craft her future Students focusing on sculpture can channel their passion for art into building with many different mediums. Growing up, Mary Kathy Robb's father worked in the business field while her mother was interested in the arts. Both pushed her to follow in their line of work, so she decided to study both. But ceramics became her passion. Robb started college in 1979 but left before receiving her degree. Many years later, she's at WSU pursuing what she loves. Curriculum The sculpture concentration offers a varied and rich learning experience in a broadly defined interpretation of three-dimensional media. You'll gain experience in modeling, fabricating, carving, casting, nontraditional and contemporary techniques. Advanced students are expected to pursue disciplined study in theory, art history and materials through original work, studio critique, class readings and discussion. View the curriculum Careers A degree in art from Wichita State will nurture your creativity and give you the knowledge, skills and connections for success in the workforce—and in graduate studies. Learn more about careers in this field Similar Programs Ceramics Media (Studio Art) Art Education Art Art History Engineering Technology - Civil Engineering Technology 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©