Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Housing and Residence Life Housing 101 Residence Halls Resident Resources Conference Housing International Students About Us Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact About Housing and ResLife Housing and ResLife Staff Directions FAQ Employment Take Action Apply for Housing FAQ Schedule a Tour Contact Get social with us! InstagramFacebooktwitter Home Housing and Residence Life About Frequently Asked Questions Frequently Asked Questions Housing and Residence Life FAQ What are the move-in/move-out dates? Residence halls will reopen for the Spring semester on Thursday, January 13 at 1 p.m. Check out our 'Resident Resources' page for more information on the 2022 Spring Move-In. Towards the end of spring semester students will receive an email in regard to move-out procedures. Students are required to check/move-out of their Spring 2022 assignments within 24 hours of their last exam, but not later than Friday, May 6. I'm an incoming freshman. Where can I stay? Welcome to the UofM! We want to make sure you have the best experience possible during your stay with us. The LLC is an all-freshmen hall. Freshmen can also stay in Rawls, Smith, South and Centennial Place traditional doubles. When can I apply for next semester/year housing? The Fall 2022 - Spring 2023 housing application will open on February 1, 2022 at 12 PM. The application for Maymester and Summer will open in early March. Please continue to monitor email, social media and this site for further updates. Is there a deadline to apply for housing? There is no deadline to apply. But we encourage students to apply as early as possible, as the application completion affect Room Selection timeslots and potentially housing availability. What is the application process like for Fall 2022? The Fall 2022 - Spring 2023 housing application will be completed in a two-step process. Step #1 Initial Housing Application: Starting February 1, students will be able to login to the Housing Portal, select their preferences, request a roommate pay the $45 application and sign the housing contract agreement. Step #2 Room Selection: After completing the initial application students will receive an email (typically within a week or two) from us with a specific scheduled Room Selection timeslot. During Room Selection students will log back in to the Housing Portal to select a housing assignment from the rooms available. Their choice will generate a pending assignment, which will be reviewed and confirmed by Housing and Residence Life. What is room selection? Room Selection is where students will be assigned a specific time to login in to the Housing Portal and select a housing assignment they'd like to live in from our available spaces. Their selection will generate a pending assignment, which must be reviewed and confirmed by our Department. Do I still complete room selection if I am a part of a special housing group? You No, if you will be in any special housing groups (Living Learning Communities, Athletic teams, etc.) or have received a housing accommodation from Disability Resources for Students (DRS) for next Academic Year, you will be administratively assigned to the proper housing space. How do I make changes to my application? You can make changes to many parts of your application at any time. To do so, log back in to your application and make the changes you need. When can I select my room for Fall 2022? Students will receive their scheduled Room Selection timeslots from Housing and Residence Life within a week or two of completing their Initial Housing Application. Room Selection timeslots are tentatively set to start in early March. When will I know my assignment - Fall 2022? Once assignments have been completed, you will receive an assignment letter via your UofM email. NOTE: Any assignments you may see in your portal while assignments are in process are NOT FINALIZED and could change up until you receive our official assignment email. When will I have my finalized assignment for Fall 2022? Once Room Selection has been completed, Housing and Residence Life will review, approve, and confirm housing applications. Then students will receive an assignment letter via their UofM email. Fall 2022 assignments are tentatively set to begin May 2022 and continue until the fall semester begins (dates subject to change). NOTE: Any assignments you may see in your portal while assignments are in process are NOT FINALIZED and could change up until you receive our official assignment email. How do I learn who my roommate is? To choose a roommate, each student must put each other's name and student ID number down on the application. We will make every effort to house you together. Due to FERPA, we cannot release another student’s information via email, phone or in person. However, once you have received an assignment, you can access your roommate and suitemate information by logging back into your housing portal. Can I change my meal plan? Please direct all Meal Plan questions to campuscard@memphis.edu or call 901.678.2273. You can find more information about Dining and meal plans on the Dining website. How do I cancel? You can log back into the Housing portal (where you applied) to cancel your Housing application. You can also find a link to that portal through your myMemphis dashboard under Student Pages>My Resources> Housing and Residence Life. Please contact us at housing@memphis.edu for more information on the cancellation process. What is the meningitis requirement? The State of Tennessee requires all new students under the age of 22 who will be living in a University of Memphis residence to be immunized against meningococcal disease on or after your 16th birthday and provide proof of receiving this immunization before moving into your space. Proof should be uploaded through your MyMemphis account. How much do the residence halls cost? You can find all of our housing rates online or you can pick up rate information from the Housing and Residence Life office in Centennial Place, suite 175. When is the fee payment deadline? The fee payment deadline is set by the University Student and Business Services. Traditionally, it is 4:30 p.m. on the Friday before the first day of class. When will charges be posted/adjusted on my account? Charges for Fall are usually posted in late July. For Spring, in November. For Summer, in May. If charges or adjustments are needed outside of these normal posting times, it is usually a 3-5 business day process to have the change made and reflected on your TigerXpress account. What if I can’t pay it all right now? University & Student Business Services (USBS) offers the Tuition and Housing Installment Payment Plan (IPP) to qualified students for Fall and Spring to help satisfy payment requirements by the appropriate fee payment deadline. Please contact the USBS office for more information. How are housing assignments made? There are many factors that go into housing assignments: available space, enrollment classification, living learning communities, athletics, honors, etc. How do I apply for student worker positions? ResLife hires students for positions like Resident Advisor and Desk Assistant throughout the year. We have all employment opportunities posted online. Click on the job for which you want to apply and complete the application. You will hear from us if we are interested in interviewing you for a position. What are the Living Learning Communities? Living Learning Communities are specialized programs that combine the conventional residential experience with support from faculty, integrated resources from sponsoring departments, and a 360-degree approach to student learning. Contact each department for enrollment and information. What do I need to bring for living on campus? Check out our 'what to bring and what not to bring' list so you're ready for move-in day. How do I receive mail? All on-campus residents, besides those living at our Park Ave. and GSFH communities, will now have access to a campus postal station address (included in the cost of housing. Please contact Mail Services, which is located in the UC on the 2nd floor, for more information and complete your sign up now online! Do you have showrooms for potential students/parents/residents to view? Yes, our main showroom is in Centennial Place. As we continue to prepare for a return to a fully face-to-face campus this fall, we're excited to once again offer students and families the opportunity to tour our Residence Halls in person. Housing tours will include Centennial Place, LLC and Rawls Hall. For more information and to schedule a housing tour please contact us at housing@memphis.edu. How do I appeal a housing related charge? You can log back into the Housing portal (where you applied) to appeal your housing related charge. You can also find a link to that portal through your myMemphis dashboard under Residence Life. Then click on "Requests" and fill out the form. Please be as detailed as possible and the reason for the appeal. Can I get verification of my residence with the University of Memphis? We do provide verification for things like DHS, driver’s licenses, MLGW, etc. To get a verification letter, email us Proof of Residence request. Is it possible to change to another room/location? Given the current environment we will not be offering a specific room change period this fall. If you have a specific room change request please email it to housing@memphis.edu and speak to your RLC about a potential move. If space permits and proper safety protocols are followed, you may potentially move rooms or locations. What if I cannot make it to the regular check-in times? If you cannot make it to regular check-in, you need to email us and request to be added to the late arrival list. When you arrive, you'll need to get a late arrival pass from the Housing and ResLife office in Centennial 175 before checking in at your assigned residence hall. There is a problem with my space. What do I do? You should report the problem by submitting a Maintenance Request online or notifying your Desk Assistant or Booth Attendant on duty. You should also speak to your RA or RLC about the issue after you have submitted the request. What is consolidation? And why am I being asked to move? Consolidation happens when there are too many residents who are assigned to doubles who don’t have roommates. In the process, Housing and ResLife gives you the choice to pair up with another resident who needs a roommate, or to declare your space a single and pay the additional cost. There is a hold on my housing application. What can I do? Contact the Housing and ResLife office and let us know what kind of hold it says you have. If it is something that can be cleared, it will be. If not, a Housing and ResLife team member will tell you what your next steps are. What is GSFH? How is it different than regular student housing? GSFH is Graduate and Student Family Housing located on the Park Ave campus. The main differences are that GSFH units are for grad students or for students with a spouse and/or children, they come unfurnished, and the utilities have a $100-$150 cap. What about the Nine/Gather/Stratum/etc? These apartments are close to the UofM campus but are in no way associated with the University. We do not have any information to share regarding off-campus housing options. Does the University offer any rental home options? While the University does have some rental homes options, these are not a part of Housing and Residence Life. They are owned and operated by Physical Plant. How do I stay 'in the know' with Housing and ResLife? You will receive important notifications from us concerning deadlines, payments, maintenance issues, etc. via your memphis.edu email. So, don't forget to check it! Make sure you follow us on Facebook, Twitter, Instagram and Snapchat for any programming updates, fun stuff, things to do and more. We also post events and updates from us and other organizations on campus to our digital screens located in the main lobby of all the residence halls. Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 5/9/22 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.