Skip to main content MyUW Calendar Directories Libraries UW Medicine Maps UW News Helpful Links Computing/IT ISC/Workday Husky Card UW Bothell UW Tacoma UW Facebook UW Twitter University of Washington University of Washington Students Parents Faculty & Staff Alumni Quick Links About Our Units Working at UW Student Life COVID-19 Info & Updates Support Student Life Living & dining On-Campus Housing Off-Campus Housing Fraternity Housing Sorority Housing Residential Dining Husky Den Food Court Groups & activities Associated Students of UW CIRCLE The Daily Ethnic Cultural Center Fraternity and Sorority Life Graduate and Professional Student Senate The HUB Husky Neighborhood Interns Peer Health Educators Q Center Recreation Residential Life Student Activities Office Unite UW: Once united, never divided Health Campus Food Pantry Counseling Crisis Connections Emergency Care Health Advocacy, Training & Education Medical Care Mental Health Recreation Digital Wellness 101: Taking Control of Your Life Online Task Force on Student Mental Health Campus safety Bias Incident Advisory Committee Community Standards and Student Conduct Husky NightWalk SafeCampus Sexual Assault Resources Student Care and Consultation UW Police Department UWPD Victim Advocacy Career prep Career & Internship Center Finding and maximizing campus jobs Blog Student Life Menu About Our Units Working at UW Student Life COVID-19 Info & Updates Support Student Life Living & dining On-Campus Housing Off-Campus Housing Fraternity Housing Sorority Housing Residential Dining Husky Den Food Court Groups & activities Associated Students of UW CIRCLE The Daily Ethnic Cultural Center Fraternity and Sorority Life Graduate and Professional Student Senate The HUB Husky Neighborhood Interns Peer Health Educators Q Center Recreation Residential Life Student Activities Office Unite UW: Once united, never divided Health Campus Food Pantry Counseling Crisis Connections Emergency Care Health Advocacy, Training & Education Medical Care Mental Health Recreation Digital Wellness 101: Taking Control of Your Life Online Task Force on Student Mental Health Campus safety Bias Incident Advisory Committee Community Standards and Student Conduct Husky NightWalk SafeCampus Sexual Assault Resources Student Care and Consultation UW Police Department UWPD Victim Advocacy Career prep Career & Internship Center Finding and maximizing campus jobs Blog Home Student Life Living and dining Living and dining When you attend the University of Washington, you get the bonus of living in one of the most beautiful and vibrant cities in the world. Whether you live on campus, in Greek housing or in the U District or another neighborhood, every option has its own unique advantages. And when you are on campus, a delicious meal or snack is never far away. Live on campus Friends, classes, dining and boundless opportunity. When you live on campus, just roll out of bed and you’re in the middle of all the action. Discover on-campus housing Live off campus Seattle is full of charming and fun neighborhoods. UW International & English Language Programs has created a great resource that helps in starting the search for an off-campus home. Find off-campus housing Live in fraternity housing Be a part of a tradition that’s 115 years old. Fraternity housing gives you an opportunity to enjoy the camaraderie of living alongside your fraternity brothers. Check out fraternity housing Live in sorority housing Immerse yourself in sorority life. Living with your sorority sisters offers you an immediate, close-knit group of friends to ease your transition into the university environment. Explore sorority housing Eat on campus Get delicious, nutritious and affordable food at over 40 locations on campus, including a grocery store, restaurants, cafés, food trucks and a food court. Learn about UW Dining Dine at the HUB Located in the HUB, Husky Den Food Court has eight restaurants and a market. From subs to sushi, curry to pizza, you won’t go hungry at Husky Den! Eat at Husky Den Connect with us Email us or call 206-543-4972 Blog Spring 2022 Resources & Opportunities (Vol. 4) – Husky Pawket Guide 2 weeks ago Spring 2022 Resources & Opportunities (Vol. 3) – Husky Pawket Guide 4 weeks ago Spring 2022 Resources & Opportunities (Vol. 2) – Husky Pawket Guide 1 month ago University of Washington Be boundless Connect with us: Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Pinterest Accessibility Contact Us Jobs Campus Safety My UW Rules Docket Privacy Terms Newsletter © 2022 University of Washington | Seattle, WA