Plan Skip to content Skip to primary navigation Skip to search box Skip to admissions quick links Skip to secondary navigation Skip to breadcrumb TC Menu Search for people, news & websites Go Resource Links Prospective Students Current Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Quick Links Columbia Library myTC Directory Apply Now Request Info Search Bar Primary Navigation About Academics Admission & Aid Faculty & Research News Give to TC Events Secondary Navigation Main Event Calendar Plan Promote Academic Calendar TC Events Plan Planning an Event Are you hosting an event and have no idea where to start? We've gathered everything you'll need to plan the best event you possibly can. Visit the Office of College Events The Office of College Events is here to advise you as you organize your event. If you have any questions about how to navigate through the policies and services provided by internal TC offices, or would like suggestions on how to structure your event including venue selection, TC event policies, and more. Please do not hesitate to contact us. Find a space The Office of Room Assignments has everything from room descriptions, to the request form, to help you find a space that works for your event. Need specific technology? The Media and Video Services offers event support, including providing projectors, etc. Order food CulinArt provides dining services throughout TC. On their website, you can access, menus, catering forms, and more! Want to use the Gottesman Libraries for your event? Library Services can help you with anything from booking a room in Russell Hall, to loaning out dry-erase markers. Whatever your event needs, they'll know how to get it! Create Promotional Materials External Affairs can provide guidance and expertise to create print and digital promotional materials for your event. Brand Guidelines for Digital Brand Guidelines for Print Contact Us Teachers College, Columbia University Address: 525 West 120th Street, New York, NY 10027 Contact Us Teachers College, Columbia University 525 West 120th Street New York, NY 10027 Tel: +1 (212) 678-3000 Map & Directions Directory Ask a Question Resources Admission & Aid Student Life Courses Academic Calendar Office of the Registrar Office of Teacher Education TC NEXT Employment Legal Consumer Information / Student Right to Know Legal Notices Policy Library Non-Discrimination Title IX Compliance Ethics Reporting Public Safety GDPR Notice Make a Gift to TC Diversity Work at TC TC Facebook TC Twitter TC Instagram TC Youtube TC LinkedIn © 2022, Teachers College, Columbia University, New York, NY 10027. Back to skip to quick links