Skip to main content Operating Status Face coverings are optional in offices, conference rooms, research labs, housing, and public spaces in buildings. Face coverings are still required in all teaching spaces, teaching labs, computer labs, buses, libraries, clinical facilities, and student-staff and student-faculty meetings spaces. More COVID-19 information Close Search Enter a Search Term Search Rutgers Search Search this site Search all Rutgers Search People Rutgers Logo New Brunswick Newark Camden RBHS/Health Info For: Prospective Students and Parents Current Students Faculty and Staff Alumni and Donors Partners Job Seekers News Rutgers Today Rutgers Magazine Events Giving Gcse block (invisible) Open Search Rutgers Logo About Rutgers About the University President Jonathan Holloway Serving New Jersey and the World An Economic Engine A Partner in Research and Innovation United Against COVID-19 Rutgers Excellence Rutgers, By the Numbers Rutgers Rankings Budget Facts Our Structure Governance and Leadership Office of the President Administrative Council Our Revolutionary Roots Rutgers Traditional Songs The Rutgers Experience Discover Rutgers Rutgers–New Brunswick Rutgers–Newark Rutgers–Camden Rutgers Biomedical and Health Sciences (RBHS) Show Your Rutgers Pride Rutgers Athletics Uniquely New Jersey Academics Academics Overview Undergraduate Academics Explore Undergraduate Programs Graduate and Professional Studies Explore Graduate & Professional Programs Top Graduate Programs Schools and Colleges Continuing Education Online Degree Programs Catalogs Libraries Faculty Excellence Global Learning Rutgers at Your Community College Student Support Research Research at Rutgers A Partner in Research and Innovation Health & Patient Care Advancing Treatment and Wellness Admissions & Tuition About Applying Path to Rutgers Tuition and Financial Aid Visits and Tours Getting Here Open Search Open Search Open Menu Close About Rutgers About the University President Jonathan Holloway Serving New Jersey and the World An Economic Engine A Partner in Research and Innovation United Against COVID-19 Rutgers Excellence Rutgers, By the Numbers Rutgers Rankings Budget Facts Our Structure Governance and Leadership Office of the President Administrative Council Our Revolutionary Roots Rutgers Traditional Songs The Rutgers Experience Discover Rutgers Rutgers–New Brunswick Rutgers–Newark Rutgers–Camden Rutgers Biomedical and Health Sciences (RBHS) Show Your Rutgers Pride Rutgers Athletics Uniquely New Jersey Academics Academics Overview Undergraduate Academics Explore Undergraduate Programs Graduate and Professional Studies Explore Graduate & Professional Programs Top Graduate Programs Schools and Colleges Continuing Education Online Degree Programs Catalogs Libraries Faculty Excellence Global Learning Rutgers at Your Community College Student Support Research Research at Rutgers A Partner in Research and Innovation Health & Patient Care Admissions & Tuition About Applying Path to Rutgers Tuition and Financial Aid Visits and Tours Getting Here Utility Mobile Info For: Prospective Students and Parents Current Students Faculty and Staff Alumni and Donors Partners Job Seekers News Rutgers Today Rutgers Magazine Events Giving New Brunswick Newark Camden RBHS/Health Pause Background Video Play Background Video Rutgers Rankings Rutgers stands among the nation's leading research universities—acclaimed for the achievements of Rutgers people and their contributions to society and the world's body of knowledge. Founded in 1766, Rutgers was chartered at the same time as some of the most prestigious institutions—such as the Ivy League universities. Rutgers excels by preparing students for leadership and success, applying knowledge and discoveries to address real-world needs, and improving the quality of life for the people of New Jersey, the nation, and the world. An Academic Powerhouse #1 New Jersey public university (Rutgers–New Brunswick) U.S. News & World Report Top 20 Public national university (Rutgers–Newark) Washington Monthly Top 75 Public national university (Rutgers–Camden) U.S. News & World Report At the Top of the Profession #1 African American History graduate program (Rutgers–New Brunswick) U.S. News & World Report #7 Criminology graduate program (Rutgers–Newark) U.S. News & World Report Top 25 Fine Arts graduate program (Rutgers–New Brunswick) U.S. News & World Report #15 Part-time Law program (Rutgers–Newark and Rutgers–Camden) U.S. News & World Report Training Health Care Leaders Committed to Caring The schools of Rutgers Biomedical and Health Sciences (RBHS) comprise New Jersey's largest and most influential constellation of academic institutions devoted to the education of the full complement of health care professionals. Top 25 Nationally ranked program: Pharmacy U.S. News & World Report #15 Nationally ranked program: Nursing–D.N.P. U.S. News & World Report #1 Physical Therapy program in New Jersey U.S. News & World Report Points of Pride A Historic University Chartered in 1766, Rutgers is the eighth-oldest college in the nation. Our charter was granted by King George III of England and signed by William Franklin, the last Royal Governor of New Jersey and son of Benjamin Franklin. A Reputation for Learning Excellence Rutgers perennially appears in the most respected annual listings of the world's top universities. And we are the only university in the United States that is a colonial college, a land-grant institution, and a leading national public research university. A Renowned Faculty Rutgers faculty include members of the National Academies and winners of the National Medals of Science and Technology; Pulitzer Prizes; Guggenheim, MacArthur “Genius”, and Simons Fellowships; Fulbright Scholarships; and NSF CAREER Awards. Devoted to Serving New Jersey Rutgers is proud to be The State University of New Jersey, the Garden State's premier, comprehensive public research university, with educational and outreach programs that reach residents in all 21 New Jersey counties. A Leader in Academic Health Care Rutgers and its partners form one of the nation's largest academic health care systems, and the largest in New Jersey. An Exceptional Education at an Affordable Price Our students receive an outstanding education that prepares them for a future of leadership and success and is also a great value. Forbes magazine ranks Rutgers as #29 in the nation as "Best Value Colleges." See How Rutgers Ranks See the full listing of Rutgers national and international rankings. Rutgers–New Brunswick Rutgers–Newark Rutgers–Camden Rutgers Biomedical and Health Sciences Site Footer Rutgers University New Brunswick Newark Camden RBHS/Health Connect Campus Safety Contact Us Continuing Education Giving to Rutgers Graduate Admissions Undergraduate Admissions University Maps Universitywide Offices Work at Rutgers Find a Health Care Provider Rutgers Magazine University Events Academic Academic Calendars Course Catalogs University Libraries myRutgers Portal Notices April 27, 2022: Open Hearing on the University’s Tuition, Fees, and Housing and Dining Charges for 2022–2023 Commencement Information University Operating Status Accessibility Resources Budget Facts Consumer Information Disclosures Follow Us Subscribe to Rutgers News Rutgers is an equal access/equal opportunity institution. Individuals with disabilities are encouraged to direct suggestions, comments, or complaints concerning any accessibility issues with Rutgers websites to accessibility@rutgers.edu or complete the Report Accessibility Barrier / Provide Feedback form. Copyright ©2022, Rutgers, The State University of New Jersey. All rights reserved. Contact webmaster