Skip to Popular Links Skip to Audience Links Skip to Site Navigation Skip to Site Search Skip to Features Skip to Secondary Posts Site Navigation About USC Facts and Figures Faculty Distinctions History Policies and Core Documents Sustainability Directories Visit USC Economic Impact USC Village The University of Southern California is a leading private research university located in Los Angeles — a global center for arts, technology and international business. It is home to the College of Letters, Arts and Sciences and 22 exceptional academic schools and units. USC’s Health Sciences campus houses renowned specialized care and research in cancer, stem cell and regenerative medicine, orthopedics and sports medicine. The university is the largest private sector employer in the city of Los Angeles, responsible for $8 billion annually in economic activity in the region. Opened in 2017, the USC Village is a next-level student living and learning complex nestled in a community-facing retail town center. Living spaces are organized into eight residential colleges, each guided by faculty-in-residence who curate an array of extracurricular programs. Administration Board of Trustees President Senior Administration Academic Deans “The central mission of the University of Southern California is the development of human beings and society as a whole through the cultivation and enrichment of the human mind and spirit. The principal means by which our mission is accomplished are teaching, research, artistic creation, professional practice and selected forms of public service.” For the entire mission statement, visit About USC. The University of Southern California is one of the world’s leading private research universities. An anchor institution in Los Angeles and a global center for arts, technology and international business, USC’s diverse curricular offerings provide extensive opportunities for interdisciplinary study and collaboration with leading researchers in highly advanced learning environments. Admission Undergraduate Admission Graduate Admission Financial Aid As a top-ranked private research institution, the University of Southern California offers everything you are looking for: world-class resources on a human scale, more academic opportunities than any other American university, a vibrant campus life, a location in the heart of a dynamic world center and the lifelong support of the Trojan Family. USC grants over $350 million of financial aid each year. This is one of the largest financial aid pools of any institution of higher education in the country and benefits 70% of the undergraduate student population. Academics Letters, Arts and Sciences USC Dana and David Dornsife College of Letters, Arts and Sciences Accounting USC Leventhal School of Accounting Architecture USC School of Architecture Art and Design USC Roski School of Art and Design Arts, Technology, Business USC Iovine and Young Academy for Arts, Technology and the Business of Innovation Business USC Marshall School of Business Cinematic Arts USC School of Cinematic Arts Communication, Journalism USC Annenberg School for Communication and Journalism Dance USC Glorya Kaufman School of Dance Dentistry Herman Ostrow School of Dentistry of USC Dramatic Arts USC School of Dramatic Arts Education USC Rossier School of Education Engineering USC Viterbi School of Engineering Gerontology USC Leonard Davis School of Gerontology Law USC Gould School of Law Medicine Keck School of Medicine of USC Music USC Thornton School of Music Occupational Therapy USC Mrs. T.H. Chan Division of Occupational Science and Occupational Therapy Pharmacy USC School of Pharmacy Physical Therapy Division of Biokinesiology and Physical Therapy Professional Studies USC Bovard College Public Policy USC Sol Price School of Public Policy Social Work USC Suzanne Dworak-Peck School of Social Work Related Links Undergraduate Education Graduate Education Postdoctoral Training USC Online (online graduate programs) Academic Records and Registrar Catalogue USC Libraries USC International Academy Summer Programs for High School Students Research Office of Research Centers and Institutes Shared Resources Innovation Contracts and Grants Clinical Trials Student Research Michelson Center for Convergent Bioscience Lawrence J. Ellison Institute for Transformative Medicine of USC The University of Southern California is one of a small number of research institutions on which our country depends for a steady stream of new knowledge, art, and technology. USC has nearly $900 million in annual research expenditures, is ranked second in the nation among all universities in the size of its federally funded computer science research program, and has the second largest graduate program in science, engineering, and health of all private research universities. At USC, students at all levels have opportunities to participate in research projects and other creative endeavors, and to interact with faculty members who are distinguished for the impact of their research. Patient Care Medical Services Keck Medicine of USC Request an appointment Medical Services and Programs Find a Provider Hospitals and Clinic Locations Dentistry Faculty Practice Norris Dental Science Center Clinics Occupational Therapy Occupational Science and Occupational Therapy Pharmacy Services Pharmacy Services Physical Therapy Physical Therapy Student Health USC Student Health The Keck Medical Center of USC is comprised of Keck Hospital of USC, USC Norris Cancer Hospital, USC Verdugo Hills Hospital and more than 500 faculty physicians of the renowned Keck School of Medicine of USC. Community Community and Neighbors Government Relations For over a century and a quarter, the University of Southern California has been an institution in the city and of the city. Having grown, and grown up, with Los Angeles, USC draws its unique vigor from its surrounding communities. We continue to join with our neighbors to ensure that our streets are safe, our children are healthy and well educated, and our local businesses, the arts, and our extraordinary cultural institutions thrive. The USC Mobile Dental Clinic is a regular participant in “Give Kids a Smile Day,” the American Dental Association’s annual program to help low-income and disabled children access dental care. Arts USC Arts Degree Programs USC School of Architecture USC School of Cinematic Arts USC Glorya Kaufman School of Dance USC School of Dramatic Arts USC Roski School of Art and Design USC Thornton School of Music USC Dornsife College – Arts & Humanities USC Iovine and Young Academy Arts Programming USC Arts Overview Visions and Voices USC Libraries USC Fisher Museum of Art USC Pacific Asia Museum USC Glorya Kaufman School of Dance is one of the six prestigious art schools of USC; other degree-granting arts schools are the USC Roski School of Art and Design, USC Thornton School of Music, USC School of Architecture, USC School of Cinematic Arts and USC School of Dramatic Arts. Global Global Engagement Global Presence Global Resources and Policies USC International Academy The University of Southern California is a global university, and a leader in international education. With programs of research, study and service that span countries and continents, and a worldwide alumni network, USC prepares students to thrive in the global marketplace. Popular Links Keep popular links open? Libraries myUSC Gmail Office365 Blackboard Academic Calendar Registration OASIS Schedule of Classes Daily Trojan Maps Directories Audiences Students Alumni Parents Faculty Employees Sports Search USC Search for: Submit Return to Content Menus Features Photo/iStock The real threat of tsunamis Current models greatly underestimate the actual threat. A USC analysis helps explain why large tsunamis still occur after relatively small earthquakes. I know what you did on Venmo So do a lot of people: USC researchers found that the popular social payments app makes user profiles, payment notes and friend lists public by default. That’s laid the groundwork for millions of privacy leaks. Photo/U.S. Forest Service Ominous start to fire season USC experts predict that the threat of California wildfires will grow in coming years, but they also see hope in new mitigation methods. USC Photo/Gus Ruelas Celebrating the Class of 2022 A class tempered by turbulent times crosses a finish line during USC’s 139th commencement ceremony; join in the festivities and see our favorite photos of the day. And share your grad photos: #USCgrad Photo/Jenny Chuang Champions of the beach USC’s women’s beach volleyball team wins its second national title in two years with a dramatic victory over Florida State on Sunday. secondary ‘We were young, they say. We have died. Remember us.’ USC Dornsife alumnus and retired Navy Capt. Chris Isleib helped create the first national memorial for World War I veterans, part of a long career spent telling the stories of America’s military. Read the full story at USC News Exposure to air pollution can worsen patient outcomes from COVID-19 A study by researchers of the Keck School of Medicine of USC and Kaiser Permanente finds a link between exposure to airborne particulate matter and increased risk of serious coronavirus complications. Read the full story at USC News USC President Carol L. Folt recaps a year of Trojan accomplishments As the 2021-2022 academic year wraps up, the president shares a video message. Watch her roundup of the year’s highlights and hear her words of thanks to students, faculty and staff. View this Video USC Pride Month: Celebrating ‘The Power of Community’ starting June 1 Explore USC Give to USC USC Event Calendar USC News Visit USC Online Programs Commitment to Change Campus Locations University Park Campus (Map) 213-740-2311 Health Sciences Campus (Map) 323-442-2000 University Information Pressroom / Media Careers at USC Office Directory Campus Safety Tommy Cam Tommy Cam TommyCam Hecuba Cam HecubaCam HecubaCam To Report an Emergency Call the USC Department of Public Safety University Park Campus: 213-740-4321 Health Sciences Campus: 323-442-1000 Social Media Facebook Instagram Twitter LinkedIn YouTube Flickr USC Podcasts Legal Information Copyright © 2022 University of Southern California Privacy Notice Notice of Non-Discrimination Smoke-Free Policy We use cookies and similar technologies to understand our visitors’ experiences. By continuing to use this website, you agree to this condition of use. For further information please see our privacy notice. OK Privacy & Cookies Policy Close Privacy Overview This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may affect your browsing experience. Necessary Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. This category only includes cookies that ensures basic functionalities and security features of the website. These cookies do not store any personal information. Non-necessary Non-necessary Any cookies that may not be particularly necessary for the website to function and is used specifically to collect user personal data via analytics, ads, other embedded contents are termed as non-necessary cookies. It is mandatory to procure user consent prior to running these cookies on your website. SAVE & ACCEPT