Skip to content Clemson University Clemson University Search Menu Close Sorry, your browser does not support inline SVG. Sorry, your browser does not support inline SVG. Apply Giving News Resources for Students Faculty & Staff Parents Alumni Clemson University Academics Forward Arrow Back Arrow Back Academics Home Employment Opportunities Apply for Admission Colleges College of Agriculture, Forestry and Life Sciences College of Architecture, Arts and Humanities College of Behavioral, Social and Health Sciences Wilbur O. and Ann Powers College of Business College of Education College of Engineering, Computing and Applied Sciences College of Science Graduate School Academic Resources Academic Calendar Registrar Division of Undergraduate Studies Center for Career and Professional Development Academic Success Center GRAD 360° Libraries Outside the Classroom PEER/WISE Call Me MISTER® Creative Inquiry and Undergraduate Research Cooperative Education University Professional Internship and Co-op Program (UPIC) Study Abroad Admissions Forward Arrow Back Arrow Back Admissions Home Schedule a Tour Apply for Admission Applying to Clemson First-Year Undergraduate Transfer Undergraduate International Undergraduate Graduate Students Academic Opportunities Majors Graduate Programs Online Graduate Programs Scholar Programs Paths to Graduate School Honors College Experiential Learning Financial Aid Tuition and Fee Calculator Undergraduate Financial Aid Graduate Fellowships and Awards Residency Requirements Campus Life Forward Arrow Back Arrow Back Campus Life Home Club Sports Brooks Center for the Performing Arts Join Your Clemson Family Finding Your Community Living-Learning Communities Student Veterans Multicultural Programs FIRST Army ROTC Air Force ROTC Services On Campus Housing & Dining Campus Recreation Parking and Transportation Student Health Services TigerOne Card Services Clemson Athletics Get Involved Clubs and Organizations Fraternity and Sorority Life Orientation Ambassadors Tiger Media Graduate Student Government Undergraduate Student Government Research Forward Arrow Back Arrow Back Research Home Clemson University Research Foundation (CURF) Division of Research Research Opportunities Student Research at Clemson Creative Inquiry Research Facilities Postdoctoral Affairs Serving South Carolina Through Research School of Health Research Public Service and Agriculture Clemson Experimental Forest Clemson Extension Clemson Research and Education Centers Public Service and Agriculture Research Farm Services Innovation and Economic Development Corporate Partnerships and Strategic Initiatives Clemson University International Center for Automotive Research (CU-ICAR) Clemson University Restoration Institute (CURI) Clemson University Biomedical Engineering Innovation Campus (CUBEInC) Center for Human Genetics Innovation Campus and Technology Park About Clemson Forward Arrow Back Arrow Back About Clemson Home Clemson News Clemson Athletics For Tigers Applying to Clemson Working at Clemson Traditions Military Heritage Things To Do in Clemson Visit Clemson Campus Resources Employment Opportunities Home and Garden Information Center Brand Guidelines CCIT Academic Calendar Training ClemsonForward Campus Leadership Board of Trustees President Academic Affairs and Provost Inclusion and Equity Student Affairs Faculty Senate Staff Senate Search Resources for Current Students Parents Faculty & Staff Alumni College of Behavioral, Social and Health Sciences Academics Forward Arrow Academics Communication School of Nursing Parks, Recreation & Tourism Management Political Science Psychology Public Health Sciences Sociology, Anthropology & Criminal Justice Back Arrow Back Students Forward Arrow Students Prospective Students Academic Advising Forward Arrow Academic Advising Change of Major Transfer Students Study Abroad FAQ FAQ Back Arrow Back Student Resources Student Advisory Board Back Arrow Back Research Forward Arrow Research FoodFORWARD 2022 Research Symposium Research Support Center Workshops and Seminars Back Arrow Back Centers & Institutes Forward Arrow Centers & Institutes Center for Research on Health Disparities Clemson Rural Health Clinical Learning Research Center Human Factors Institute Institute for Engaged Aging Institute on Family and Neighborhood Life Institute for Parks Outdoor Lab Social Media Listening Center Back Arrow Back About Forward Arrow About About the Dean Leadership Building Healthy Communities Inclusive Excellence Alumni and Friends Honors and Awards Contact Us Faculty and Staff Resources Back Arrow Back Apply Giving News Sikes Hall Icon Main Menu Forward Arrow Icon Back Arrow Icon Back Clemson University Academics Academics Home Employment Opportunities Apply for Admission Colleges College of Agriculture, Forestry and Life Sciences College of Architecture, Arts and Humanities College of Behavioral, Social and Health Sciences Wilbur O. and Ann Powers College of Business College of Education College of Engineering, Computing and Applied Sciences College of Science Graduate School Academic Resources Academic Calendar Registrar Division of Undergraduate Studies Center for Career and Professional Development Academic Success Center GRAD 360° Libraries Outside the Classroom PEER/WISE Call Me MISTER® Creative Inquiry and Undergraduate Research Cooperative Education University Professional Internship and Co-op Program (UPIC) Study Abroad Admissions Admissions Home Schedule a Tour Apply for Admission Applying to Clemson First-Year Undergraduate Transfer Undergraduate International Undergraduate Graduate Students Academic Opportunities Majors Graduate Programs Online Graduate Programs Scholar Programs Paths to Graduate School Honors College Experiential Learning Financial Aid Tuition and Fee Calculator Undergraduate Financial Aid Graduate Fellowships and Awards Residency Requirements Campus Life Campus Life Home Club Sports Brooks Center for the Performing Arts Join Your Clemson Family Finding Your Community Living-Learning Communities Student Veterans Multicultural Programs FIRST Army ROTC Air Force ROTC Services On Campus Housing & Dining Campus Recreation Parking and Transportation Student Health Services TigerOne Card Services Clemson Athletics Get Involved Clubs and Organizations Fraternity and Sorority Life Orientation Ambassadors Tiger Media Graduate Student Government Undergraduate Student Government Research Research Home Clemson University Research Foundation (CURF) Division of Research Research Opportunities Student Research at Clemson Creative Inquiry Research Facilities Postdoctoral Affairs Serving South Carolina Through Research School of Health Research Public Service and Agriculture Clemson Experimental Forest Clemson Extension Clemson Research and Education Centers Public Service and Agriculture Research Farm Services Innovation and Economic Development Corporate Partnerships and Strategic Initiatives Clemson University International Center for Automotive Research (CU-ICAR) Clemson University Restoration Institute (CURI) Clemson University Biomedical Engineering Innovation Campus (CUBEInC) Center for Human Genetics Innovation Campus and Technology Park About Clemson About Clemson Home Clemson News Clemson Athletics For Tigers Applying to Clemson Working at Clemson Traditions Military Heritage Things To Do in Clemson Visit Clemson Campus Resources Employment Opportunities Home and Garden Information Center Brand Guidelines CCIT Academic Calendar Training ClemsonForward Campus Leadership Board of Trustees President Academic Affairs and Provost Inclusion and Equity Student Affairs Faculty Senate Staff Senate Search close College of Behavioral, Social and Health Sciences Academics show submenu for Academics Communication School of Nursing Parks, Recreation & Tourism Management Political Science Psychology Public Health Sciences Sociology, Anthropology & Criminal Justice Students show submenu for Students Prospective Students Academic Advising show submenu for Academic Advising Change of Major Transfer Students Study Abroad FAQ Student Resources Student Advisory Board Research show submenu for Research FoodFORWARD 2022 Research Symposium Research Support Center Workshops and Seminars Centers & Institutes show submenu for Centers & Institutes Center for Research on Health Disparities Clemson Rural Health Clinical Learning Research Center Human Factors Institute Institute for Engaged Aging Institute on Family and Neighborhood Life Institute for Parks Outdoor Lab Social Media Listening Center About show submenu for About About the Dean Leadership Building Healthy Communities Inclusive Excellence Alumni and Friends Honors and Awards Contact Us Faculty and Staff Resources Clemson Home College of Behavioral, Social and Health Sciences About Current: Leadership Leadership Leslie Hossfeld, Ph.D. Dean lhossfe@clemson.edu Leslie Hossfeld is trained in rural sociology from North Carolina State University with experience examining rural poverty and economic restructuring. She has made two presentations to the U.S. Congress and one to the North Carolina legislature on job loss and rural economic decline. Dean Hossfeld has served as co-chair of the American Sociological Association Task Force on Public Sociology, vice president of Sociologists for Women in Society, president of the Southern Sociological Society, chair of the American Sociological Association Section on Sociological Practice and Public Sociology and the Mississippi Food Policy Council, and a member of the Executive Council of the North Carolina Sociological Association (NCSA), which awarded her a lifetime achievement award in February 2019. Currently, Dr. Hossfeld serves as co-chair of the USDA SERA-47 multi-state initiative, Strengthening the Southern Region Extension and Research System to Support Local and Regional Food Needs and Priorities, in 13 states in the southern region. Prior to joining Clemson, Dean Hossfeld was head of the Department of Sociology, Criminology and Social Work at Mississippi State University and chair of the Department of Sociology and Criminology at the University of North Carolina Wilmington. She has developed economic recovery projects for rural North Carolina counties and food sovereignty projects in the Mississippi Delta using health as an economic development strategy. Her current research focuses on multi-disciplinary strategies and collaborative partnerships around local food systems development and nutrition security. She works to bridge U.S. local food systems research to health disparities to develop policy coherence linking health and agriculture policy. Denise Anderson, Ph.D. Associate Dean for Undergraduate Studies, Faculty Affairs and Inclusive Excellence dander2@clemson.edu Denise Anderson has been on the Department of Parks, Recreation and Tourism Management faculty since 2003. From 2009 until 2015, she also served as the department’s graduate coordinator. Anderson’s major research interests involve youth development, youth sport, leisure education and student development, and girls’ and women’s access to recreation opportunities. Prior to coming to Clemson, she served on the faculty of the University of North Carolina at Greensboro. She holds a Bachelor of Arts in English from Illinois Wesleyan University, a master’s in physical education from Eastern Illinois University, and a Ph.D. in leisure behavior from the University of Illinois, Urbana-Champaign. Rachel Mayo, Ph.D. Associate Dean for Research and Graduate Studies rmayo@clemson.edu Rachel Mayo is the Wallace R. Roy Distinguished Professor in Public Health Sciences, and she has also served as research coordinator and associate chair for the Department of Public Health Sciences. Her research interests include health disparities and cancer prevention and control among minority and underserved, particularly African American and Latino populations. She has been the principal or co-investigator on more than $4 million in grants and contracts to support this work. She is the PI on a Department of Health and Human Services-funded cohort study to examine an early treatment model for infants born with Neonatal Abstinence Syndrome to opioid-addicted mothers, and she has previous National Institutes of Health funding examining medical and nursing students’ readiness to treat Latino patients and to increase breast and cervical cancer screenings through a statewide intervention in African American churches. She currently serves on the Center for Disease Control’s Advisory Committee for Young Women with Breast Cancer. Bryan Denham, Ph.D. Interim Chair, Department of Communication bdenham@clemson.edu Bryan Denham is interim chair in the Department of Communication, having previously served as chair from 2015 to 2018. He has held the Campbell Professorship in Sports Communication since 1999. Denham is author of the text Categorical Statistics for Communication Research and has published approximately 75 peer-reviewed journal articles and book chapters. His research has focused on the media, policy and health aspects of substance use in sport and society, in addition to issues in social identity and research methods. Sarah Griffin, Ph.D. Interim Chair, Department of Public Health Sciences sgriffi@clemson.edu Sarah Griffin is interim chair of the Department of Public Health Sciences. She also a professor in the department and a faculty scholar in the Clemson University School of Health Research. Griffin brings over 30 years of public health experience to the position and has published over 50 peer-reviewed journal articles and presented at over 75 scientific meetings. Her research focuses on the dissemination, implementation and effectiveness of evidence-based approaches for prevention and treatment of obesity and other chronic diseases. Jeffrey Hallo, Ph.D. Interim Chair, Department of Parks, Recreation and Tourism Management jhallo@clemson.edu Jeffrey Hallo, a professor who has served as the department’s honors director and graduate coordinator, began his Clemson University career in 2007. His research and teaching focus on understanding, planning for and managing visitor use in parks, forests and other protected areas. He has co-authored more than 65 peer-reviewed scientific journal articles, books and book chapters over the course of his career, and has been an interviewed expert for articles in a variety of noted national news outlets. He earned his Ph.D. with an emphasis in natural resources from the University of Vermont, and he has a master’s degree in technical (project) management from John Hopkins University and a bachelor’s in wildlife/fisheries biology and chemistry from Frostburg State University. Jeffrey Peake, Ph.D. Professor and Chair, Department of Political Science jpeake@clemson.edu Prior to joining the faculty at Clemson, Jeffrey Peake was professor of political science at Bowling Green State University in Ohio. A Clemson alumnus (B.A., political science), he received his Ph.D. from Texas A&M University. Peake's research interests focus on the Presidency, the media, and Congress. More specifically, Peake has written on presidential leadership of the media and the public, presidential-congressional relations, agenda-setting, and the domestic politics of treaties. He is co-author of two books, Breaking Through the Noise: Presidential Leadership, Public Opinion, and the News Media and the Rise of Executive Agreements: International Commitments in a System of Shared Powers. Pat Raymark, Ph.D. Professor and Chair, Department of Psychology praymar@clemson.edu Pat Raymark has served as the chair of the Department of Psychology at Clemson since 2010. Prior to serving as chair, he served as the graduate program coordinator for the department. He originally arrived at Clemson in 1998 after spending several years as a faculty member at the Ohio State University. His research interests largely revolve around applied decision making within the context of personnel selection and evaluation. More specifically, he has conducted research investigating the decision-making processes used in employment interviewers, job analysis, and performance appraisal. Kathleen Valentine, Ph.D. Director, School of Nursing, and Chief Nursing Academic Officer klvalen@clemson.edu Before coming to Clemson, Kathleen Valentine served as dean of nursing at the University of New Brunswick in Fredericton, New Brunswick, Canada; associate dean for clinical affairs and community engagement at the Massachusetts General Hospital Institute for Health Professions; associate dean for outreach at Florida State University’s College of Nursing; and department chair and associate professor at the University of Wisconsin, Eau Claire. She has also led regional and national initiatives to advance professional nursing practice and consulted with national and international health care organizations that range from Mayo Clinic to the Moscow Psychologic Institute. Her research focuses on the economic value of human caring, nurse-managed primary care clinics, and interprofessional collaboration. She holds a Ph.D. in human service program evaluation and a Master of Science in health administration from Cornell University, a Master of Science in psychiatric and mental health nursing from Syracuse University, and a Bachelor of Science in nursing from the State University of New York at Binghamton. Katherine Weisensee, Ph.D. Associate Professor, Chair, Department of Sociology, Anthropology and Criminal Justice kweisen@clemson.edu Katherine Weisensee joined the Clemson faculty in 2008 and became chair of the department in 2018. Her research interests include human skeletal biology, forensic anthropology and morphometrics, and she currently teaches Introduction to Anthropology, Biological Anthropology, Forensic Anthropology, Human Variation and Human Remains Recovery. She earned a Ph.D. and master’s degree in anthropology from the University of Tennessee and a bachelor’s degree in anthropology from Brandeis University. Nicole Davis, Ph.D., APRN, AGPCNP-BC, GNP-BC Faculty Fellow for the Advancement of Inclusive Excellence njd@clemson.edu Nicole Davis is the inaugural Faculty Fellow for the Advancement of Inclusive Excellence. An associate professor in the School of Nursing, she also coordinates the school’s graduate programs in nursing education, health systems leadership, and adult/gerontology nursing practice. She is a board-certified adult and gerontological nurse practitioner and a National Hartford Centers of Gerontological Nursing Excellence Distinguished Educator. At Clemson, she is a faculty associate in the Institute for Engaged Aging, a faculty scholar for the School of Health Research, a core member of the Center for Research on Health Disparities, and a graduate of the President’s Leadership Institute. She also serves as a governor-appointed member of the S.C. Alzheimer’s Resource Coordination Center Advisory Council. She is a graduate of New York University (B.S.N.), Duke University (M.S.N.) and Georgia State University (Ph.D.). College of Behavioral, Social and Health Sciences Copyright © Clemson University College of Behavioral, Social and Health Sciences | 116 Edwards Hall 864-656-7640 | Email Us | Academic Questions intro-arrow Engage With Us Through Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube Clemson University Facebook Instagram Twitter Linkedin Youtube Tiktok Policy/Terms of Use Web Accessibility Ethics/Safety Hotline Privacy Policy Copyright © 2022 Clemson University • Clemson, South Carolina 29634 Clemson University Facebook Instagram Twitter Linkedin Youtube Tiktok Resources A-Z Index Campus Map CU Safety Directory Webcams Apply to Clemson