Skip to main content MyUW Calendar Directories Libraries UW Medicine Maps UW News Helpful Links Computing/IT ISC/Workday Husky Card UW Bothell UW Tacoma UW Facebook UW Twitter University of Washington University of Washington Students Parents Faculty & Staff Alumni Quick Links About About the UW Diversity Global Impact Innovation Leadership Maps Population Health Sustainability Visit Academics Academic calendar Academic departments Colleges and schools Course descriptions Registration Student guide Time schedule Apply Admissions Financial Aid Continuing education Majors Student housing Transfer students Tuition and fees Undocumented students UW Online News & Events UW News Featured stories Arts UW Calendar UW Magazine Husky sports Newsletter Research Office of Research Research Lifecycle Resources Collaboration Stats and rankings Campuses Bothell Seattle Tacoma Give Give now Ways to give My UW Giving Husky Promise The Husky Promise Menu About About the UW Diversity Global Impact Innovation Leadership Maps Population Health Sustainability Visit Academics Academic calendar Academic departments Colleges and schools Course descriptions Registration Student guide Time schedule Apply Admissions Financial Aid Continuing education Majors Student housing Transfer students Tuition and fees Undocumented students UW Online News & Events UW News Featured stories Arts UW Calendar UW Magazine Husky sports Newsletter Research Office of Research Research Lifecycle Resources Collaboration Stats and rankings Campuses Bothell Seattle Tacoma Give Give now Ways to give My UW Giving Home The Husky Promise The University of Washington is promising students a future. The Husky Promise is our guarantee to Washington state students that we will not let financial challenges stand in the way of discovering their potential or achieving a UW degree. We believe students from all economic backgrounds should have the opportunity to attend the UW. If students are admitted to the UW and qualify for the Husky Promise, we promise to pay their tuition. The Husky Promise guarantees full tuition and standard fees will be covered by grant or scholarship support for eligible Washington state students. You will not have to pay back these grants and scholarships. You can also be assured that if tuition increases, the financial aid you receive will increase as well. The Husky Promise ensures that the UW remains affordable and accessible to Washington residents. It is a guarantee that supports a promising future, and one we’re happy to keep. How does the Husky Promise work? Your tuition will be covered first by your federal and state grants — like the Pell Grant or Washington College Grant. If your eligibility for these programs does not equal the full cost of your tuition, the UW will make up the difference with institutional grants or scholarships. Funds awarded for the Husky Promise will only cover up to your calculated financial need and can be reduced if you receive private scholarships or other privately funded resources. At the UW, private scholarships are used to meet need and replace loans before we reduce grant or scholarship assistance. The Husky Promise applies to tuition and standard fees only; however, there are additional grant, scholarship, work-study and loan funds available to help with the other costs of education, like books and room and board. Many of the students in the Husky Promise program will receive grants or scholarships beyond the cost of tuition. Who is eligible and how do I apply for the Husky Promise? In general, the Husky Promise is available to UW students at all three campuses – Bothell, Seattle and Tacoma – who are Washington state residents and meet the eligibility criteria for the Pell Grant. It is also important to note that the Husky Promise is limited to 12 quarters of eligibility at the UW. To be eligible for the Husky Promise you must: Be a Washington state resident Meet all eligibility criteria for the Pell Grant program Submit the Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) or the Washington Application for State Financial Aid (WASFA) by the UW’s priority filing date for the following academic year. Review the financial aid application process to find priority filing dates and other application information. Enroll full-time (12 credits or more). Be pursuing a first bachelor’s degree. Maintain satisfactory academic progress while at the UW. Undocumented Washington residents can be eligible for the Husky Promise even if not receiving a Pell Grant. To apply, students must submit the Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) or the Washington Application for State Financial Aid (WASFA) before the UW’s priority filing date of January 15 for the following academic year. You must list the University of Washington (federal code #003798) as one of the colleges you wish to receive the results of your FAFSA or WASFA. See more information on how to apply to the Husky Promise. Are there other financial aid solutions? If you don’t qualify for the Husky Promise, we still have grant, scholarship, work-study and loan funds that can help pay your educational costs. The Husky Promise is just one way the UW helps students pay for college. In 2018-19, over half of UW’s undergraduates received more than $400 million in financial aid. You must apply for financial aid by filing the FAFSA or WASFA by our priority date of January 15. If you miss the priority date, you may still be considered for financial aid, but for limited types of aid. Visit the Office of Student Financial Aid for more information about our financial aid programs. The Husky Promise Frequently asked questions Support the Husky Promise What is the Husky Promise? The Husky Promise is our guarantee to Washington state’s children that if you work hard, there’s a spot for you at the UW. Contact Bothell 425-352-5326 uwbfaid@uw.edu Seattle 206-543-6101 osfa@uw.edu Tacoma 253-692-4374 uwtfa@uw.edu Resources FAFSA UW Admissions Financial Aid Calculator UW Office of Student Financial Aid Fact Sheets Husky Promise fact sheets English Español University of Washington Be boundless Connect with us: Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Pinterest Accessibility Contact Us Jobs Campus Safety My UW Rules Docket Privacy Terms Newsletter © 2022 University of Washington | Seattle, WA