Skip to main content Resources for: Parents Faculty/Staff Alumni Request Info One Stop Apply Visit Give Search Search University of Oregon Sites Search Site Navigation Academics Research Admissions & Financial Aid Duck Life About Spring 2022 Academic Initiatives Update Resources for: Parents Faculty/Staff Alumni Request Info Take Action One Stop Apply Visit Give University of Oregon Main navigation Academics Research Admissions & Financial Aid Duck Life About Spring 2022 Academic Initiatives Update Alumni Resources ALUMNI RESOURCES Once a Duck, Always a Duck Remember the roar of Autzen? The pervasive spirit of collaboration and discovery that pushes us forward? The tranquility of the 295-acre arboretum that we call home? Remember how this place changed you—and how you changed us? It’s part of you now. You’re a Duck. Embrace it. Join the UO Alumni Association. Come back to campus and visit. Find support and stay informed. And definitely get involved. The UO is only as strong as its alumni. Alumni Association: UO Alumni Assocation Become a Member of the UOAA UOAA Alumni Groups UOAA Alumni Events Ducks Helping Ducks: Duck Career Network Handshake UO Career Center Stay Connected: UO Ticket Office Social Media Index Request a Transcript Give to the UO CAMPUS News Events Maps Directions A–Z Index Find People Report a Concern TOOLS Webmail UOmail Canvas Duckweb RESOURCES Class Schedule Academic Calendar UO Libraries For Journalists University of Oregon 1585 E 13th Ave. Eugene, OR 97403 P: 541-346-1000 Contact Us Visit us on Facebook Visit us on Twitter Visit us on Youtube Visit us on Vimeo Visit us on Instagram Visit us on LinkedIn Accessibility Report a Concern Careers Privacy Policy About Find People © University of Oregon. All Rights Reserved. UO prohibits discrimination on the basis of race, color, sex, national or ethnic origin, age, religion, marital status, disability, veteran status, sexual orientation, gender identity, and gender expression in all programs, activities and employment practices as required by Title IX, other applicable laws, and policies. Retaliation is prohibited by UO policy. Questions may be referred to the Title IX Coordinator, Office of Affirmative Action and Equal Opportunity, or to the Office for Civil Rights. Contact information, related policies, and complaint procedures are listed on the statement of non-discrimination.