Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. Equity, Inclusion & Community Impact Inclusion right arrow down arrow About right arrow down arrow Meet The Team CDO Roundtable Diversity Council D&I Resource Liaisons Student Diversity & Inclusion Council Employee Resource Groups Guiding Principles Equity & Inclusion App Feedback Equity & Inclusion right arrow down arrow Community Education & Workshops right arrow down arrow Workshop Request Form Equity & Inclusion Conference right arrow down arrow Call for Concurrent Session Proposals Equity & Inclusion Incentive Grants Marian Spencer Equity Ambassador Award Services right arrow down arrow Services Request Form Equal Opportunity & Access right arrow down arrow Affirmative Action Plan & Equal Employment Opportunity Section 504/ADA Grievance Procedure Complaint Resolution and Consultation Community Education & Workshops right arrow down arrow Equal Opportunity & Access ACADEMY right arrow down arrow Graduate Class of 2021 Inclusive Excellence Workshops The Student Experience right arrow down arrow Semester/Capstone Projects Gender Equity & Inclusion (Title IX) right arrow down arrow Making a Report right arrow down arrow Confidentiality Employee Responsibility Support & Resources right arrow down arrow Supportive Measures Pregnancy and Parenting Resources Responding to Disclosures Resources for Complainants and Respondents Gender Identity Resources Community Education & Training right arrow down arrow Training Request Form Gender and Sexual Diversity Terminology Title IX right arrow down arrow Reporting Options Title IX Sexual Harassment Policy Sex- and/or Gender-Based Misconduct Policy and Procedure Training Materials for UC Title IX Personnel Community Impact right arrow down arrow CPS Strong Make a Gift right arrow down arrow Darwin T. Turner Scholars Program DEI Toolkit Home » About UC » Equity, Inclusion and Community Impact » Equal Opportunity & Access » Community Education & Workshops Set Navigation title in component Affirmative Action Plan & Equal Employment Opportunity Section 504/ADA Grievance Procedure Complaint Resolution and Consultation Community Education & Workshops Equal Opportunity & Access ACADEMY Graduate Class of 2021 Inclusive Excellence Workshops The Student Experience Semester/Capstone Projects Community Education & Workshops The Office of Equal Opportunity & Access is to ensure compliance with affirmative action regulations and implementation of equitable hiring practices at UC. In large part, we fulfill these compliance obligations through provision of assistance and education to search committees/hiring units and auditing of institutional personnel processes. The following services provided by our office may greatly benefit your search process: Search committee education (available as individual consultations and/or committee/group sessions) On demand applicant pool diversity tracking and progress towards goals Review of search processes and screening tools (i.e. interview questions, rubrics, job postings and other applicant materials for job-relatedness and avoidance of implicit/explicit bias) Consultation on search questions/process, compliance expectations and diversity strategies. To schedule consultation from the Office of Equal Opportunity & Access, please contact us at: Office of Equal Opportunity & Access 5150 Edwards Center 1 Email: oeohelp@uc.edu Phone: 513-556-5503 Other topics include: Americans With Disabilities Act (ADA) Reviews the laws and our responsibility for its implementation. Explains physical and mental disabilities. Identifies who is protected by the ADA. Highlights the relationship of the ADA and employment practices. Defines reasonable accommodations. Creating a Respectful Workplace Reviews federal laws and UC policies that govern harassment and discrimination in the workplace and campus setting. Highlights the different forms of harrasment. Explains when, where, and how to file complaints of harassment or discrimination. Discusses management and leadership's roles in handling allegations of harassment or discrimination. Explains the University's responsibility in investigating allegations of harassment or discrimination. Diversity Highlights the importance of valuing and managing workplace diversity. Explains how changing demographics impact today’s workplace. Illustrates the connection between diversity and successful organizations. Shows how to create a workplace where people of all cultural backgrounds can succeed. Identifies personal attitudes and behaviors toward differences. Recognizes how individual differences influence personal and business interactions. Determines steps organizations and groups can take to create a more inclusive, respectful and productive workplace. Equal Employment Opportunity/ Affirmative Action (EEO/AA) Debunks myths about EEO/AA. Increases employee knowledge of the issues and responsibilities concerning EEO/AA. Provides a working knowledge of current laws. Defines terms associated with EEO/AA. Clarifies differences between “goals” and “quotas”. Sexual Harassment Creates the awareness that sexual harassment exists and can be prevented. Defines sexual harassment. Describes why sexual harassment is a problem. Profiles a typical victim and a typical harasser. Demonstrates what to do if you experience sexual harassment. University of Cincinnati 2600 Clifton Ave. Cincinnati Oh 45220 513-556-5000 UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati University of Cincinnati 2600 Clifton Ave. Cincinnati Oh 45220 513-556-5000 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top