Accessibility Options: Skip to Content Skip to Search Skip to footer Office of Disability Services Request Assistance 305-284-2374 Display: Default High Contrast University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Apply About UM Schools School of Architecture College of Arts & Sciences Miami Herbert Business School School of Communication School of Education & Human Development College of Engineering School of Law Rosenstiel School of Marine & Atmospheric Science Miller School of Medicine Frost School of Music School of Nursing & Health Studies The Graduate School Division of Continuing & International Education Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Search Tools People Search Class Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Search UM (Mobile) Apply Apply About UM Schools Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Academics Admissions Student Life Research UHealth Athletics Tools Popular Links Coronavirus Information News@TheU People Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement Home Search Site More sites UM Alumni Association Philanthropic Giving Alumni News Get Involved Events Learn Benefits Our Stories Give About Us Get Involved Events Learn Benefits Our Stories Give About Us Search Get Involved Events Learn Benefits Our Stories Give About Us More sites UM Alumni Association Philanthropic Giving Alumni News Alumni Card Hurricane Sports UMiami App for Alumni Campus Discounts Email For Life Corporate Offers Digital Campus Store Educational Discounts License Plate Program Connect Programs & Events Learn Benefits Career News About Us Home Benefits UMiami App for Alumni AAA UMiami App for Alumni With the UMiami mobile app, you can take the U on the move with you! Download the free UMiami mobile app and discover nearby ’Cane Biz discounts, app-exclusive benefits for alumni, and ’Canes Community happenings near you. After you download the app, you’ll need to apply the settings specifically for alumni. The alumni experience in the UMiami app brings together all the benefits your free lifetime membership to the University of Miami Alumni Association offers. Engage with fellow alumni in your ’Canes Community, receive exclusive updates and information on events, and more! Detailed steps for downloading the app Use the direct links below, or go to your phone’s app store and search “UMiami mobile app” to download. Allow notifications and location services. Why? So you won’t miss in-app exclusives and alumni events near you! Click the “person” icon in the upper right corner of the app home screen. On the drop-down list, click “My App Experience: Coral Gables Campus.” On the “Select Your App Experience” screen, click "Alumni." Need more help? Email umalumniapp@miami.edu or call 305-284-2872. Be sure to include your first and last names, year of graduation or years attended, and school or college. Features Digital Alumni Card Benefits ’Canes Communities and Affinity Groups Notifications Additional Features The digital alumni card can be used at participating ’Cane Biz shops and on campus for special alumni discounts. If you graduated after 2006 and live in Miami-Dade County, you can also use it at University of Miami Parking and Transportation to obtain an official ’Cane Card for use on campus. Otherwise, contact us at the email address or phone number above for more information. The digital alumni card is an acceptable substitute for the printed alumni card that is mailed upon graduation. Browse all the benefits provided by the University of Miami Alumni Association and discover more ways to engage, including access to digital library resources, campus discounts, and corporate offers. Network with fellow ’Canes and join events in your area! Each community is headed by volunteer leaders, and the app will provide a digital space for a calendar of events and opportunities to connect and stay involved. Receive notifications about the University of Miami Alumni Association, in-app perks, contests, and events happening in your area. The option to receive notifications is enabled when you download the app—allow notifications and location services so you don’t miss out! ’Cane Funder - Swag Box Calendar of Events Connect: News for Alumni and Friends of the U Free Digital Swag FAQs Open All Tabs Why should I choose my app experience as “Alumni” on the UMiami app? The alumni app experience was built specifically for alumni. It provides easy access to information about University services and communications, a calendar of events, links to local ’Canes Communities, and many more engagement opportunities. Be sure to allow notifications and location services when you download the app, and you’ll receive updates on nearby alumni events and University happenings. Does the alumni card replace the ’Cane Card? No, the alumni card is not a substitute for the ’Cane Card, which is the official identification and access card for anyone on campus. Where can I use my alumni card? You can use the digital alumni card at the University of Miami Parking and Transportation office to obtain a ’Cane Card or a parking permit. The digital card can also be used for discounts around campus, at participating ’Cane Biz stores, and for check-in purposes at ’Canes Community, affinity group, and University of Miami Alumni Association events. All data transfers are handled by University staff through a secure and confidential process. Who can I contact for assistance with the app? Email umalumniapp@miami.edu with your name, C number, and graduation year. Please allow up to 48 business hours for confirmation of account updates. University of Miami Coral Gables, FL 33124 305-284-2211 University of Miami Alumni Association Newman Alumni Center 6200 San Amaro Drive, Suite 200 Coral Gables, FL 33146 305-284-2872 305-284-2872 Resources About UM myUM CaneLink Academic Calendar Blackboard UM Network Alumni Association Medical Center Hurricane Sports Employment Opportunities Visit Campus Map Parking & Transportation Connect social-facebook social-twitter social-youtube social-instagram Copyright: 2022 University of Miami. All Rights Reserved. Emergency Information Privacy Statement & Legal Notices