Skip to main content Skip to main navigation Professional Education Menu About Staff Directory Calendar State Authorizations & Licenses Professional Licensure Disclosure by Program Student Resources Student Services and Benefits Online Student Withdrawal Tech Support FAQs Tips for Online Students Academic Integrity Degrees and Programs Continuing Education Department Resources Baylor>Professional Education>About>Calendar Calendar Baylor Professional Programs operate on several different calendars. Please see below which program is offered under each calendar. The calendar is selected for each program to optimize student success and compliment the method of content delivery. Professional Degrees & Programs Graduate Academic Calendar This calendar applies to the following programs: • Master of Journalism • Education Specialist (School Psychology) in Dallas Trimester Academic Calendar This calendar applies to the following programs: • Communications Sciences and Disorders (CSD) • Doctor of Physical Therapy (DPT) • Doctor of Nurse Practice (DNP) • Master of Social Work (MSW) • EdD - Learning and Organizational Change • Master of Computer Science (MSCS) • Doctor of Occupational Therapy (OTD) • Master of Arts in School Leadership Quarter Academic Calendar This calendar applies to the following programs: • Master of Public Health Accelerated 6 Start Academic Calendar This calendar applies to the following programs: • Master of Business Administration About Staff Directory Calendar State Authorizations & Licenses Professional Licensure Disclosure by Program General Information Colleges, Schools, Libraries & Research Admissions Administration Gateways For... About Baylor Anonymous Reporting Athletics Ask Baylor Bookstore Calendar Campus Map Directory Give Light Give to Baylor Illuminate Mental Health Resources News Pro Futuris Report It Search Social Media Title IX Baylor Libraries College of Arts & Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work George W. Truett Theological Seminary Graduate School Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Louise Herrington School of Nursing Research at Baylor University Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Engineering & Computer Science School of Music More Academics Undergraduate Admissions goBAYLOR Graduate Admissions Baylor Law School Admissions Social Work Graduate Programs George W. Truett Theological Seminary Admissions Online Graduate Professional Education Virtual Tour Visit Campus Annual Fire Safety and Security Notice Athletics Human Resources Marketing and Communications Office of General Counsel Office of the President Office of the Provost Operations, Finance & Administration Senior Administration Student Life University Advancement Baylor Alumni Faculty & Staff Online Graduate Professional Education Parents Prospective Faculty & Staff Prospective Students Students Professional Education Mailing Address: Baylor University Professional Education One Bear Place #97071 Waco TX 76798-7071 Physical Address: Pat Neff Hall Suite 304 1320 S. 7th St. Waco, TX 76706 Copyright © Baylor® University. All rights reserved. Legal Disclosures. Baylor University • Waco, Texas 76798 • 1-800-229-5678 About Staff Directory Calendar State Authorizations & Licenses Professional Licensure Disclosure by Program Student Resources Student Services and Benefits Online Student Withdrawal Tech Support FAQs Tips for Online Students Academic Integrity Degrees and Programs Continuing Education Department Resources