Skip to main content Temple University Explore Temple’s Schools and Colleges Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Support Temple Temple University Search Site Search Full Menu Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees President History & Traditions Temple Health News & Media Offices Public Information Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Development Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Libraries Data Science: Computational Analytics Certificate (Undergraduate) You are here Home Academics Degrees and Programs Data Science: Computational Analytics Certificate (Undergraduate) Apply Request More Info Data Science: Computational Analytics Certificate (Undergraduate) Admissions Data Science: Computational Analytics Undergraduate Certificate Study big data and machine learning with the Undergraduate Certificate in Data Science: Computational Analytics in Temple’s College of Science and Technology. Geared toward students with a strong mathematical and programming background, this undergraduate certificate will aid your career advancement in a number of industries, including biomedical sciences, defense, education and engineering. Data science is used to make complex decisions in a number of data-rich domains, such as biomedical science, defense and security, education, engineering, geoscience, physical science and social science. As a student, you’ll learn how to analyze large quantities of data and discover the knowledge necessary to fuel cutting-edge developments. You'll also dig deep into computational analytics through the exploration of techniques and theories steeped in computer science, mathematics and statistics. Your courses will provide you with a strong foundation in algorithmic, computational and statistical thinking as well as the inner-workings of computer systems. This certificate is available to all undergraduate students and professional non-degree-seeking students. Who might be interested? This undergraduate certificate is ideal for those students who have completed advanced mathematics and computer programming coursework, as well as professionals who currently work in fields related to data science. Undergraduate students can add this certificate to their curriculum. Credit Requirements You must complete 13 to 15 credits in order to receive this certificate. Current undergraduate students must complete 20 credits of specific prerequisite courses prior to adding the Data Science: Computational Analytics Certificate (Undergraduate) to their curriculum. Learn more about the prequisites for this program. Delivery Method All classes take place at Temple's Main Campus. Classes & Curriculum In this 13- to 15-credit-hour program, you’ll complete two courses in computer and information sciences. Classes include Principles of Data Science and Foundations of Machine Learning. You’ll also choose two classes out of two preapproved lists that include Linear Algebra, Mathematical Concepts in Computing II, Probability Theory I and Statistical Business Analytics. Learn more about Data Science: Computational Analytics courses. Related Graduate Degrees Bioinformatics PSM Bioinnovation PSM Biotechnology PSM Computational Data Science MS Computer and Information Science PhD Computer Science MS Information Science and Technology MS High-Performance Computing for Scientific Applications PSM Mathematics Program Information MS Mathematics Program Information PhD Physics MS Physics PhD Scientific Writing PSM Related Graduate Certificates Computer Science Certificate Scientific Writing Certificate Tuition & Fees The tuition for this Certificate Program is based on school or college of your major, program degree level (undergraduate or graduate), course load (full- or part-time), in-state or out-of-state residency, and more. Learn more about our tuition and fees. Our Academic Advisors Center for Academic Advising and Professional Development The Center for Academic Advising and Professional Development in the College of Science and Technology helps you navigate New Student Orientation, advises on specific degree programs and courses, provides post-graduation guidance, and offers peer support. You can also be matched with a qualified student ambassador/ombudsperson who will further assist with degree and academic questions or concerns. Learn more about the Center for Academic Advising and Professional Development's academic advisors and student ambassadors/ombudspersons. Program Contact Contact the following faculty for more information about the Data Science: Computational Analytics Certificate (Undergraduate). Tony Hughes is an associate professor and the program contact for the Department of Computer and Information Sciences. Phone: 215-204-7910 Email: anthony.hughes@temple.edu Accreditation As a division within Temple University, the College of Science and Technology is accredited by the Middle States Commission on Higher Education. ST-DSCA-CERT Additional Program Information Available as a minor. Visit College Site View Program Details Go back to AcademicsMore in Data Science: Computational Analytics Certificate (Undergraduate) Admissions Apply Request More Info Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Calendar Policies Social Media TUportal TUmail Accessibility Careers at Temple Safety & Emergency Information Ethics & Compliance Privacy Statement Professional Licensure Disclosures Follow Temple University Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community. Apply Request More Info