Skip to main content Google Tag Manager Explore Brown University Search Brown Show/Hide powered by Learn More About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life Find A to Z Index People Directory Information for Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Top Destinations Global Brown Watson Institute Graduate School Alpert Medical School School of Public Health School of Engineering Swearer Center. Brown University. Search form Search Home About Programs Voting at Brown Events at Swearer about programs People Stories Students Faculty Community Partners Friends & Alumni Sign up for our Newsletter Programs Engaged Scholars Program The Engaged Scholars Program (ESP) enables students who are passionate about communities and the challenges they face to design courses of study and action as part of their concentration requirements. Through guided coursework, advising and hands-on experience working with community partners, students in ESP are able to contextualize abstract theories, challenge assumptions and develop skills that prepare them for lives of effective action. Students who complete the program receive an academic transcript notation as Engaged Scholars. If you are a current Engaged Scholar, click here for more program information. New applications are no longer being accepted for ESP, but interested students are welcome to declare the new Engaged Scholarship Certificate. Structure Engaged Scholars complete four requirements: 1. Engaged Courses 2. ESP Practicum 3. ESP Seminar 4. ESP Capstone Advising and mentoring is critical to the Engaged Scholars Program, from course selection to practicum development. As a general rule, academic departments and programs provide advising through faculty advisors for course selection and capstone development. ESP staff primarily advise on practicum development, and also provide ongoing advising about program requirements. Student participation in the program is tracked by ESP staff and concentration advisors in ASK. We encourage ESP students to continually update their concentration course plan in ASK to include engaged courses. Additionally, the ESP Canvas site, available to ESP students and viewable by advisors and ESP staff, provides more information about program requirements and is a platform for submitting program requirements, including practicum work plans and reflections. More information about Program Requirements. ESP Requirements Eligibility The Engaged Scholars Program accepted applications from students in participating concentrations through Summer 2020 but is not enrolling additional students. The new undergraduate Engaged Scholarship Certificate (ESC) builds on the strengths and core elements of the ESP and is accessible to students in any concentration. Students will be able to submit ESC declarations in ASK beginning in August 2021. All students already participating in the ESP will be supported through to graduation. With questions about the certificate or this transition, please email [email protected]. Contact Email [email protected] or Julie Plaut, Assistant Dean of the College and Director of Engaged Scholarship, [email protected]. Celebrating the Class of 2022. read> Celebrating the Class of 2021. read> See All Engaged Scholars Program Stories FAQ Contact Swearer Center Brown University 2 Stimson Avenue Box 1974 Providence, R.I. 02912 +1 401 863 2338 s[email protected] Quicklinks Home About Programs Voting at Brown Events at Swearer BrownEngage Connect Swearer http://www.facebook.com/SwearerCenter https://twitter.com/swearercenter https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCDdrA9Z9vbwIOAjCHxjvp7Q https://www.instagram.com/swearercenter/ https://www.linkedin.com/company/swearercenter Giving to Brown Brown University Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-1000 Maps & Directions / Contact Us / Accessibility © 2016 Brown University Connect: [email protected] Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram iTunes U LinkedIn SnapChat