Skip to content Home The Harvard Chan Frontiers Give Now Online How to Make a Gift Confronting COVID-19 Support Ideas Support People Support Infrastructure Types of Gifts Planned Giving Impact Stories Philanthropic Impact Why We Give Contact Us Main Menu Supporting the Harvard Chan School Home Frontiers Make a gift How to make a gift Our giving site is secure and easy to use. We accept MasterCard, Visa, Discover, and American Express. Your gift to the School is tax-deductible. Give now online by check by phone matching gifts via bank wire with stock donor advised funds By Check Checks and money orders should be made payable to Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health. Please include a note with your full name, address, and phone number and mail to: Checks by US Mail Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health DBA President and Fellows of Harvard College P.O. Box 419209 Boston, MA 02241-9209 Checks by FedEx Bank of America Lockbox Services President & Fellows of Harvard College Box 419209 2 Morrissey Blvd MA5-527-02-07 Dorchester, MA 02125 Bank of America Lockbox Services is SL1 By Phone Please call Harvard University’s Alumni and Development Services Office at (617) 495-1750 to charge your gift to your credit card. Within the U.S. you may also call toll free 1-800-VERITAS or 1-800-837-4827 to make a gift over the phone. Matching Gifts Many employers sponsor matching gift programs and will match contributions made to Harvard by their employees. To find out if you or your spouse’s company has a matching gift program, please visit our website here. Via Bank Wire To transfer funds electronically (bank wire/ACH) please call us at (617) 432-8470 or send an email to annualgiving@hsph.harvard.edu. Gifts of Stock Making a gift of securities is both simple and tax efficient because you receive a double tax benefit. With a gift of appreciated securities, you are entitled to a federal income tax charitable deduction if you itemize your return. For appreciated securities held longer than one year, you may deduct the full fair market value of your gift. A second tax benefit with a gift of appreciated securities is that you avoid any capital gains tax. Giving appreciated securities to the Harvard Chan School is a wise choice, and very easy for you and your broker. Please follow these instructions: 1. Call or email Naglaa Elshamy, Executive Assistant, at nelshamy@hsph.harvard.edu or (617) 432-8470 to confirm how many shares and the stock name(s) that are being sold, and what program or fund at Harvard Chan School you are giving to. 2. Have your broker call the Trust Administration team toll-free at (866) 845-6596 or email donorsecuritygifts@harvard.edu. Telling them that this is a gift for Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health. Give Now Online Contact Us Thank You The generosity of our donors enables the Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health to conduct research, educate public health leaders, and promote solutions to advance health and equity for everyone. Harvard Chan School Home Contact Us Harvard University Home Privacy Policy Report Copyright Violation Accessibility Copyright © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College