Skip to main content University of Washington Research Contact Us About Office of Research Announcements UW Home Quick Links MyResearch Project Lifecycle Plan/Propose Plan/Propose Overview Develop Hypothesis/Question Select Funding Source Conduct Literature Search Sponsor Requirements Recruit Team Budget Facilities and Resources Write Proposal Submit Proposal Tools MyResearch SAGE Zipline More Tools Setup Setup Overview Sponsor Requirements Facilities and Resources Financials Subawards Compliance Requirements (Non-Financial) Records and Documentation Methods Collaborations Data Collection Tools MyResearch SAGE Zipline More Tools Manage Manage Overview Financials Compliance Requirements (Non-Financial) Facilities and Resources Collect Data Analyze Data Subawards Award Changes Reporting Tools MyResearch SAGE Zipline More Tools Closeout Closeout Overview Financials Subawards Equipment and Materials Reporting Dissemination of Results Data Sharing Records Retention Tools MyResearch SAGE Zipline More Tools Resources Support Offices Human Subjects Division Office of Animal Welfare Office of Research Central Office of Research Information Services Office of Sponsored Programs Research Units Applied Physics Laboratory Washington National Primate Research Center Browse Forms and Templates Policies, Procedures and Guidance Announcements Glossary FAQs Popular Resources Funding Opportunities Grants Information Memorandum (GIMs) Institutional Facts and Rates Research Stats & Rankings New to UW Research UWFT for the Research Community Tools MyResearch SAGE Zipline More Tools Collaboration Connect to Expertise Find Research Expertise Research Centers and Institutes Resources for Collaboration Interdisciplinary Resources Guidance for NIH Institutional Training Grants Collaborative Proposal Development Resources Establish a Research Center or Institute Shared Research Facilities and Resources Tools MyResearch SAGE Zipline More Tools Compliance Compliance Overview Compliance Training Training Overview Research Training Overview Collaborative for Research Education Required Research Training Research Administration Learning HSD Training and Education MyResearch Training Transcript UW Research Menu MyResearch Project Lifecycle Plan/Propose Setup Manage Closeout Resources Collaboration Compliance Training Home UW Research UWFT for the Research Community UWFT for the Research Community Close Menu Home UWFT for the Research Community SAGE Awards What is UW Finance Transformation? UWFT is a redesign of our finance-related policies, processes, and systems, working collaboratively toward a single financial system of record in Workday for all of the UW. This transformation enables teams to reduce risk through predictable, real-time, and informed decisions. For more information refer to the UWFT website. How is the Office of Research Involved in UWFT? With sponsorship from Vice Provost for Research Mari Ostendorf, the Office of Research and our campus partners (forming the Research Administration Pillar) are actively involved in UWFT. A top priority of ours is to support you through the upcoming award process transformations, and ensure your work in the research community continues as seamlessly as possible. What’s Transforming for the Research Community? Grant Award to Close Grant Award to Close (GA2C) refers to the business processes involved from the time an award is received through close‐out. You are likely familiar with many of the GA2C activities as they are performed throughout the MyResearch Project Lifecycle. UWFT automates, streamlines, and provides transparency into GA2C processes. Review the following GA2C diagrams on the UWFT Change Network to learn more: Sponsor Setup & Maintenance Award Setup Subaward Setup (coming soon) Sponsor Billing Effort Reporting Faculty Effort Reporting Non-Faculty Closeout Sponsor Updates In advance of UWFT, the UW is implementing a centralized approach to tracking sponsors and donors. SAGE and Finance systems will be updated to make use of this new central Funding Entity Core Data Management (FECDM) solution, which provides streamlined donor data and better reporting capabilities. We will provide more information as we get closer to this update in SAGE. SAGE Budget Requirements With UWFT, campus units are required to use SAGE Budget for award setup. SAGE Budget communicates budget information to Grant and Contract Accounting (GCA), facilitates a direct flow of data between SAGE and Workday, and provides a consistent format for reviewing budget details. Get started using SAGE Budget today! Attend a SAGE Budget course, and review our job aid and user guides. Award Setup and Modifications UWFT streamlines the award setup and modification process through a new SAGE Awards feature that’s integrated with Workday. For more details, visit SAGE Awards. When Are These Changes Happening? While the sponsor data improvements will be delivered in advance of UWFT go-live, you can expect most of the new UWFT features and processes to launch in July 2023. Resources & Training Bookmark and refer to this page often! We are in the process of developing new research-related training and resources to help you prepare for the upcoming transformations. Meetings and Mailing Lists We communicate via the following meetings and mailing lists as important research-related information becomes available. Be sure to attend and subscribe. We will share relevant UWFT news and updates over the next several months: Monthly Research Administration Meeting (MRAM) MRAM is a monthly meeting open to staff interested in research award administration at the UW. Visit the MRAM website for more information. MRAM Mailing List Subscribe to the MRAM mailing list to stay informed on timely and relevant research administration information. Office of Research Information Services (ORIS) Mailing List Subscribe to the ORIS mailing list for the latest news, resources, and availability regarding our research administration systems. SAGE Resources SAGE Budget Course With UWFT, campus units are required to use SAGE Budget for award setup. The SAGE Budget course provides an overview of how to establish budget settings, add personnel and costs, create sub budgets, and link budgets to an eGC1. Learn more and register. SAGE Budget Job Aid and User Guides SAGE Budget Job Aid SAGE Budget User Guides Workday Resources Refer to the UWFT nanolearning videos for a review of financial literacy and Workday topics: Introduction to Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP) Introduction to Accrual Accounting Foundation Data Model (FDM) Terminology Refer to the Research Administration Terms on Knowledge Navigator for usage and reference of commonly used terms like Proposal, Award, Sponsor Type, and more. Frequently Asked Questions Is SAGE Budget required? Home UWFT for the Research Community SAGE Awards UWFT Resources About UWFT Why Transform? Benefits Timeline Message from Sponsors Connect With Us JOIN RESEARCH MAILING LISTS HELP IMPROVE ORIS SYSTEMS University of Washington Office of Research Tools MyResearch SAGE Zipline More Tools OR Support Offices Human Subjects Division (HSD) Office of Animal Welfare (OAW) Office of Research (OR) Office of Research Information Services (ORIS) Office of Sponsored Programs (OSP) OR Research Units Applied Physics Laboratory (APL-UW) WA National Primate Research Center (WaNPRC) Research Partner Offices CoMotion Corporate and Foundation Relations (CFR) Enivronmental Health and Safety (EH&S) Grant and Contract Accounting (GCA) Institute of Translational Health Sciences (ITHS) Management Accounting and Analysis (MAA) Post Award Fiscal Compliance (PAFC) Collaboration Research Expertise Centers and Institutes Interdisciplinary Resources Guidance for NIH Institutional Training Grants Collaborative Proposal Development Resources About Research Fact Sheet Research Annual Report Stats and Rankings Honors and Awards Office of Research Contact Us Manage Subscriptions Gerberding Hall G80 Box 351202 Seattle, WA 98195 Accessibility Jobs Campus Safety My UW Privacy Terms © 2022 University of Washington | Seattle, WA