Catalyst Design Lab News People Publications Resources The Peterson group. Picture taken November, 2016. More Photos Simulating electrochemistry. The Solvated Jellium Method for controlling potential. More Info Addressing uncertainty. Adding confidence to atomistic machine learning. More Info Atomistic machine learning. Our open-source package, Amp, provides a modular appraoch. More Info Build-a-butane. Build a 3-d, interactive molecule for your web browser in 2 lines of code. More Info Atomistic tips and tricks. A new section of our website provides example scripts. More Info Highly-selective CO2 reduction. The edges of Au nanowires exhibit excellent selectivity to CO. More Info Solar-enriched biofuels In a new publication, we show how solar energy can be used to enhance the amount of fuel produced from biomass. More Info The active site in Au CO2 electrocatalysts Electronic structure calculations and precision synthesis suggest edge sites are active for CO2 reduction while corner sites give H2. More Info Sulfur poisoning How sulfur changes the activity of ruthenium catalysts in supercritical-water biomass gasification. More Info Catalysis – the fundamental engineering of chemical reactions – is responsible for nearly all chemicals produced in the synthetic and biological world. In particular, heterogeneous catalytic reactions, involving reactions at an interface, create a majority of the commodity chemicals and fuels used in today's society and are critical in enabling tomorrow's energy technologies, including fuel synthesis, biomass conversion, artificial photosynthesis, fuel cells, low-carbon fertilizers, and even batteries. Our research laboratory takes a dual approach to catalyst design, by conducting high-throughput quantum-mechanical computations that rationalize material activity (“theory”), as well as by performing laboratory-based synthesis, testing, and analysis (“experiment”). The reactivity of heterogeneous catalysts is dictated by their atomic configurations, electronic structure, and the interaction with adsorbates. Our laboratory utilizes high-performance computing to understand the reactivity of existing catalysts and to develop design principles for new catalysts. Our experimental facilities include synthesis capabilities, a high-pressure reaction cell, and electrochemical / analytical testing facilities. Located in the School of Engineering under the direction of Andrew Peterson, the Catalyst Design Lab combines a theoretical understanding of heterogeneous catalytic systems with laboratory-based experimental testing. Catalysts are crucial for transforming our energy economy, and our laboratory focuses on catalysts for electrofuels and biofuels. Andrew Peterson School of Engineering Brown University Box D, 184 Hope Street Providence, RI 02912 USA Phone: +1 401 863 2153 Email: [email protected]