Emergency alert message Ohio State nav bar Skip to main content The Ohio State University Help BuckeyeLink Map Find People Webmail Search Ohio State Ohio State Environments Beyond bricks and mortar The spaces and places at Ohio State empower collaboration. They serve as a strong foundation for building vibrant futures for our communities. They pave our bold, innovative path forward. With each new space comes limitless possibilities. These spaces connect multiple disciplines from across campus and across our communities, enabling and empowering people to build something — discover something — bold, innovative, creative, unparalleled. From streamlining access to life-changing health care to inspiring unprecedented artistic expressions, these new spaces will provide innovative resources for our communities to create lasting, positive changes and discoveries. Learn more Accelerating discovery through partnerships and translating that new knowledge in a myriad of meaningful ways. Increasing much-needed access to cutting-edge health care — delivered with an unequalled patient experience. Pushing the boundaries and re-envisioning the capabilities of creative expression to explore and understand cultures, language and emotion. Tackling the health care dilemmas too big to be solved by a single discipline, and changing the perception of accessible care. Arts District Ohio State’s Arts District brings creative thinkers and doers closer together to spark unexpected connections and inspire how we express the human experience. View this project Interdisciplinary Health Sciences Center The new health sciences education space is where students become tomorrow’s health care leaders, engage with their communities and discover healthful solutions. View this project Innovation District The Innovation District will be a prosperous environment dedicated to turning big ideas into reality, right here in Columbus. View this project Outpatient Cancer Treatment Ohio State’s new outpatient cancer center is a space built on our simple but powerful idea: better lives for people with cancer, from diagnosis to treatment through survivorship. View this project Medical Campuses With a new hospital tower and five new suburban medical campuses, Ohio State is growing to meet the complex medical needs of our communities. View this project Related Links Ohio State's Strategic Plan Framework 2.0 Wexner Medical Center Strategic Plan Construction Updates Facebook Page Twitter Page Instagram Page YouTube Page RSS Feeds The Ohio State University © 2022 | The Ohio State University University Marketing | 1480 West Lane Avenue | Columbus, OH 43221 Request an alternate format of this page | Nondiscrimination notice