The 2021 Columbia-Nikkei journalism scholarship awarded to Prinz Magtulis | Columbia Journalism School Skip to main content Toggle navigation Columbia University in the City of New York Columbia Journalism School Search Search Search Search Admissions Where to Begin Deadlines & Requirements Cost of Attendance Scholarships Financial Aid Frequently Asked Questions Request Info Meet With Us Contact Us Apply Student Life New Student Information Extracurricular Activities School Policies Important Dates Graduation For Current Students Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Programs Areas of Study Arts Audio Broadcast Business Data Documentary International Investigative Multimedia Politics Science Writing Master of Science Student Work Curriculum Compare M.S./M.S. Data/M.A. Part-time Program Documentary Specialization Investigative Specialization Class Descriptions M.S. Data JRN Student Work Curriculum Compare M.S./M.S.Data/M.A. Class Descriptions Master of Arts Student Work Curriculum Compare M.S./M.A. Arts & Culture Concentration Business & Economics Concentration Politics Concentration Science Concentration Dual Degrees Journalism & Computer Science Dual Degrees With Other Departments International Dual Degrees Ph.D. Student Work Student Bios Faculty Requirements Ph.D. Class Descriptions Financial Aid Other Programs Knight-Bagehot Spencer Fellowship Cross Registration Student Work Arts Audio Broadcast Business Data Documentary International Investigative Multimedia Politics Science Writing Careers Career Development Career Expo Exclusive Opportunities Postgraduate Fellowships For Employers For Current Students Alumni Alumni Weekend Alumni Resources Career Development Professional Development Investigative Reporting Data Video CJS in Latin America Sulzberger Leadership Program Audio Boot Camp Columbia Publishing Course About Us Faculty News Events Prizes The Educational Experience Rent Event & Studio Space Students, Faculty & Staff Support the School Contacts Admissions Where to Begin Deadlines & Requirements Cost of Attendance Scholarships Financial Aid Frequently Asked Questions Request Info Meet With Us Contact Us Apply Student Life New Student Information Extracurricular Activities School Policies Important Dates Graduation For Current Students Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Programs Areas of Study Arts Audio Broadcast Business Data Documentary International Investigative Multimedia Politics Science Writing Master of Science Student Work Curriculum Compare M.S./M.S. Data/M.A. Part-time Program Documentary Specialization Investigative Specialization Class Descriptions M.S. Data JRN Student Work Curriculum Compare M.S./M.S.Data/M.A. Class Descriptions Master of Arts Student Work Curriculum Compare M.S./M.A. Arts & Culture Concentration Business & Economics Concentration Politics Concentration Science Concentration Dual Degrees Journalism & Computer Science Dual Degrees With Other Departments International Dual Degrees Ph.D. Student Work Student Bios Faculty Requirements Ph.D. Class Descriptions Financial Aid Other Programs Knight-Bagehot Spencer Fellowship Cross Registration Student Work Arts Audio Broadcast Business Data Documentary International Investigative Multimedia Politics Science Writing Careers Career Development Career Expo Exclusive Opportunities Postgraduate Fellowships For Employers For Current Students Alumni Alumni Weekend Alumni Resources Career Development Professional Development Investigative Reporting Data Video CJS in Latin America Sulzberger Leadership Program Audio Boot Camp Columbia Publishing Course About Us Faculty News Events Prizes The Educational Experience Rent Event & Studio Space Students, Faculty & Staff Support the School Contacts Home News The 2021 Columbia-Nikkei journalism scholarship awarded to Prinz Magtulis Prinz Magtulis is the recipient of the 2021 Columbia-Nikkei Scholarship, an annual award of $100,000 given to outstanding journalism students from Asia with an interest in data or business journalism. The 2021 Columbia-Nikkei journalism scholarship awarded to Prinz Magtulis December 22, 2021 Share More to Explore Careers Classes Degree Programs Faculty Stay Connected Columbia Journalism School and Nikkei Inc. have named Prinz Magtulis as the 2021-22 Nikkei Scholar. The $100,000 scholarship is awarded annually to an exceptional journalism school candidate who is a resident of Asia and plans to specialize in data or business reporting. Nikkei Inc. is the parent company of the Financial Times, the publisher of the Nikkei and Nikkei Asia. "I am extremely privileged to have the opportunity to attend Columbia Journalism School through the kind support given by Nikkei,” Magtulis said. ”I’ve always been devoted to telling stories using data. A data journalism education from Columbia would equip me with vital skills to dig deeper on datasets, simplify their complexities in my stories better.” Magtulis, 32 is a financial journalist from the Philippines with an enduring passion for data journalism. As a policy researcher on the side, Magtulis believes in the power of data in explaining complex government policies to audiences of all backgrounds and broadly, igniting change in government rulemaking through the interpretation of data. This is something he brought to his most recent position as business news head for Philstar.com, one of the Philippines’ top online news portals. Prior to Philistar.com, Magtulis was a researcher for the Financial Times until early 2020, wrinting in depth stories on the Philippines economy and business. Magtulis has been a journalist for a decade and specializes in covering macroeconomy and public finance. The Columbia-Nikkei Scholarship was established in 2017 to fund exemplary candidates who wish to specialize in data and business journalism. Students who are residents of Asia with an interest in the M.S. Data Journalism or M.A. Business and Economics concentration will be considered for the Columbia-Nikkei Scholarship. To learn about this and other scholarship opportunities visit: www.journalism.columbia.edu/scholarships About Nikkei Nikkei Inc. is a world-renowned media brand for Asian news, respected for quality journalism and for being a trusted provider of business news and information. Founded as a market news media in Japan in 1876, Nikkei has grown into one of the world’s largest media corporations, with 37 foreign editorial bureaus and approximately 1500 journalists worldwide. Nikkei acquired the U. K.-based Financial Times in 2015. Our combined digital and print circulation totals over 3 million, and we are continually deploying new technologies to increase our readership. About Columbia Journalism School For more than a century, the school has been preparing journalists in programs that stress academic rigor, ethics, journalistic inquiry and professional practice. Founded with a gift from Joseph Pulitzer, the school opened its doors in 1912. It offers a Master of Science, Master of Arts, a joint Master of Science degree in Computer Science and Journalism, and a Doctor of Philosophy in Communications. It houses the Columbia Journalism Review, the Brown Institute for Media Innovation, the Tow Center for Digital Journalism, and the Dart Center for Journalism and Trauma. In addition to the Pulitzer Prizes, the school administers many of the leading journalism awards, including the Alfred I. duPont-Columbia University Awards, the Maria Moors Cabot Prizes, the John Chancellor Award, the John B. Oakes Award for Distinguished Environmental Journalism, the Dart Awards for Excellence in Coverage of Trauma, the Paul Tobenkin Memorial Award, and the Mike Berger Award. Journalism.columbia.edu Press Contact: Public Relations Office, Nikkei Inc. pr@nex.nikkei.co.jp Elena Cabral Assistant Dean, Academic Programs & Communications Columbia Journalism School ecabral@columbia.edu Share More to Explore Careers Classes Degree Programs Faculty Stay Connected TOP Admissions Programs Student Work Careers Alumni Professional Development Contact Us Faculty News Events Prizes Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkIn Youtube Tow Center For Digital Journalism The Brown Institute for Media Innovation Columbia Journalism Review Dart Center For Journalism & Trauma The Ira A. Lipman Center for Journalism and Civil and Human Rights Apply Support Us Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkIn Youtube © 2021 Columbia Journalism School Non-Discrimination Policy Privacy Policy Site Map Columbia University © 2021 Columbia Journalism School Where to begin Deadlines & Requirements vary by program. Check your dates. Tuition planning starts here. Scholarships & Financial Aid explained. Frequently Asked Questions answered. Request Information about our programs. Meet With Us and attend an information session. Apply for the 2022-2023 school year.