Skip to main content UTS: Promo Links COVID-19 Updates Get Involved Search terms Search icon University of Texas System Toggle navigation Primary Navigation News Institutions Regents Administration Offices Main page content Congratulations to the Class of 2022! CPRIT awards $22 million to MD Anderson, UT Austin, UT Southwestern and UT Health San Antonio to recruit world class cancer researchers UTMB and UTEP partner to improve medical imaging UT Austin collaboration has potential to speed up life-saving discoveries in cancer care Latest News UT System, U.S. Army Futures Command announce partnership to accelerate innovation in trauma care April 19 The University of Texas System and the United States Army Futures Command (AFC) have formed an official educational and cooperative research partnership to advance medical science and technology to save lives both on and off the battlefield. UT System’s David Lakey appointed to national commission to improve U.S. public health system April 13 Dr. David Lakey, M.D., The University of Texas System’s chief medical officer and vice chancellor for health affairs, has been appointed to a new non-partisan commission charged with reimagining a stronger health care system at every level of government. UT System Regents establish $300 million endowment to expand tuition assistance programs at UT institutions February 24 The UT System Board of Regents and Chancellor James B. Milliken today announced the creation of a $300 million endowment to help undergraduate students at UT institutions pay for college. CPRIT awards more than $73 million to UT institutions for cancer research and prevention February 18 The Cancer Prevention and Research Institute of Texas (CPRIT) announced Feb. 16 it had awarded grants totaling over $73 million to six University of Texas institutions to advance cancer research and prevention efforts. Faculty at eight UT institutions recognized among nation’s top scientists January 27 The American Association for the Advancement of Science (AAAS) recently named 20 scholars from eight University of Texas institutions as 2021 AAAS Fellows, a lifetime distinction awarded to some of the nation’s leading scientists. AAAS Fellows are elected each year by their peers in recognition of significant contributions to science, technology, engineering or math (STEM). UT System names new executive vice chancellor for business affairs January 25 University of Texas System Chancellor James B. Milliken announced today that Jonathan C. Pruitt, currently chief operating officer for the University of North Carolina System, has been named the UT System’s new executive vice chancellor for business affairs. Regents name sole finalist for president of UT Arlington January 7 The UT System Board of Regents named Jennifer Evans-Cowley, Ph.D., provost and vice president of academic affairs at the University of North Texas, as the sole finalist for the president of UT Arlington. Statement by Chancellor James B. Milliken on UT Arlington Interim President Teik C. Lim January 5 I applaud the New Jersey Institute of Technology’s Board of Trustees for its appointment today of Dr. Teik C. Lim as the university’s next president. Visit the Newsroom SmartBook The UT System SmartBook provides an annual overview of key enrollment, staffing, finance, research and other data for all 13 UT institutions. Confronting The Global Pandemic Take a look at the accomplishments, challenges and lessons learned as the 13 UT institutions responded to the COVID pandemic and carried out their educational and health care missions. Chancellor's Council The Chancellor's Council is a group of dedicated supporters and friends of The University of Texas System. 87th Legislative Session Budget & Policy Outcomes Learn more about the impact of the budget and policy outcomes of the 87th Legislative session on public higher education and the UT System. Connect With Us Facebook Twitter LinkedIn YouTube homepage-Connect with UT System Tweets by @utsystem UT System Links and Contact Information Academic Institutions UT Arlington UT Austin UT Dallas UT El Paso UT Permian Basin UT Rio Grande Valley UT San Antonio UT Tyler Health Institutions UT Southwestern UTMB Galveston UTHealth UT Health San Antonio UT MD Anderson UT System About SmartBook Office of the Chancellor Board of Regents Administration Offices Directory UT4U Outlook Web Access Info Center COVID-19 Site Policy Library Regents' Rules & Regulations Reports to the State Audit Reports Privacy Statement Linking Notice Copyright Accessibility Open Records Resources Careers Document Library seekUT UT System Dashboard Contact UT System State Links State of Texas Fraud Reporting Texas Homeland Security Texas Veterans Portal Statewide Search University of Texas System New footer logo © 2022 The University of Texas System. 210 West 7th Street, Austin, Texas 78701-2982. (512) 499-4200 The University of Texas System Menu × Primary Mobile Navigation News Institutions Regents Administration Offices