Skip to main content Temple University Explore Temple’s Schools and Colleges Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Support Temple Temple University Search Site Search Full Menu Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees President History & Traditions Temple Health News & Media Offices Public Information Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Development Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Libraries Data Integrity You are here Home About Ethics & Compliance Data Integrity and Data Verification Unit Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Preferred Name Use Pronoun Use and Gender Identity Temple Thought Leaders Housing & Dining Health & Wellness COVID-19: Keeping Our Community Safe & Healthy COVID-19 FAQ Testing & Tracing Vaccines Academics, Tuition & Aid Temple HEERF III Grant Student Housing & On-campus Life Work-life for Faculty & Staff Faculty Teaching Information Return Scenario Planning Temple Community Health Advisory Group University Communication Vaccination Rates and Active COVID-19 Cases at Temple University International Campuses and Programs City Life Philadelphia Visiting Temple Accommodations Dining Options Religious Services Information FAQs Safety Main Campus and Philadelphia Safety FAQ Contact Temple RAVE Temple Guardian App Community Programs and Research University News Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Campus Life Arts and Culture Clubs and Organizations Housing, Dining and OWLcards Parking and Transportation Safety Student Banking Student Centers Wireless, Computers and Phone Academics Advising and Academic Support Courses and Calendars International Students Libraries Registration, Grades and Books Schools and Colleges Health and Wellness Athletics and Fitness Health and Counseling Tuition and Financial Aid Financial Aid Tuition and Billing Careers and Internships Career Center Internships Student Jobs Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees Presidential Search President University Leadership Board of Trustees Updates Past Presidents 2019 State of the University History & Traditions Russell Conwell Temple Traditions Acres of Diamonds Honorary Degrees Past Honorary Degree Recipients Temple Health News & Media Media Mentions Temple University Wallpapers Temple's Impact Career in Charitable Change Fueled by Temple Experiences Advancing Breast Cancer Research Leaders in HIV Research 21st-century Learning Temple Firsts Paving the Way Medical & Community Support Student Support Contact members of Strategic Marketing and Communications Offices Public Information Facts About Temple Faculty & Staff Resources Working at Temple Calendars and Time Off Holiday Schedule Careers at Temple Human Resources Performance and Training Business Services Catering Exception Policy Double Tree Catering/ Conferences Contact Frequently Asked Questions Trademark Licensing Policy Corporate Responsibility Logo and Graphics Guide Guidelines for Trademark Use The Student, Faculty and Staff Guide to Ordering Licensed Temple Products Becoming Licensed Trademark and Licensing FAQ Where to Buy Temple Gear University-approved Hotels Club Quarters DoubleTree Hotel Hilton Garden Inn Hilton Philadelphia at Penn's Landing Loews Hotel Sonesta Philadelphia The Conwell Inn Campus Services Computers, Email and Phones Conferences and Meetings Health Sciences Center Form Main Campus Meeting Space Howard Gittis Student Center Form Documents & Insurance Facilities and Space ID Cards Parking and Transportation Faculty Resources Calendars, Schedules and Grades Courses and Curricula Instructional Resources Faculty Senate and News Research and Grants Finance and Travel Accounting and Budget Employee Banking and Finance Tuition Remission Travel and Expenses Wellness and Safety Fitness and Health Safety and Alerts Campus Development Frequently Asked Questions Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Data Integrity and Data Verification Unit In-scope Materials Quick Reference Guide Rankings Data Overview and Updates Additional Resources Frequently Asked Questions FAQ: Fox School of Business MBA rankings Enterprise Risk Management Key Terms and Definitions Helpline Frequently Asked Questions Resources Compliance With the Four Pillars Who We Are Libraries Charles Library Data Verification Unit The Data Verification Unit (DVU), part of the Ethics and Compliance Office, manages the data verification function for the university. The DVU serves as a critical safety net designed to prevent the dissemination of inaccurate information about the university. Any reports, documents, publications, online postings or other materials meeting the criteria below must be submitted to the DVU for review and verification. Submission of materials to the DVU is mandatory, and approval from the DVU is required before these materials may be published, issued or disseminated in any form. Learn more about the DVU. Scholarly publications are subject to Temple’s Responsible Conduct of Research guidelines and are not required to be submitted for DVU review. Roles and Responsibilities Schools, Colleges and Units Create surveys, reports and materials with accurate and verifiable data Attest to the accuracy and completeness of materials prior to its submission to Data Verification Unit (DVU) Submit to DVU at least three weeks prior to external submission for verification Address any issues or comments identified by DVU and make applicable changes Submit final survey, report or material Maintain submissions and supporting documentation in a central and accessible location Provide DVU with a final copy of the submission Institutional Research and Assessment Prepare census reports and other documents containing official university facts and figures Assist schools, colleges and units with the preparation of reports and surveys (such as querying information), if requested Provide requested data to schools, colleges and units Assist DVU with ad hoc queries and requests If IRA is completing surveys, reports or materials, they will follow the same process as the schools, colleges and units. Ethics and Compliance Data Verification Unit Validate the accuracy and completeness of data within the following scope. Any factual statement or document containing statistical, demographic or numerically descriptive data, including, but not limited to, statements made for purposes of encouraging attendance or donations to the university; and Any data submitted to accreditation bodies, government entities or rankings organizations Provide feedback to the school, college or unit based on verification process Educate the Temple community on data integrity Provide tools, templates and resources to support data verification Maintain final copies of submissions provided by schools, colleges and units What must be submitted for DVU review? All colleges, schools and administrative units are required to submit the following items for review and verification prior to disseminating in printed or electronic form. Any factual statement or document containing statistical, demographic or numerically descriptive data (this includes, but is not limited to, statements made for purposes of encouraging attendance or donations to the university); and Any data submitted to accreditation bodies, government entities or rankings organizations. There are several important items to keep in mind about the DVU submission requirements. Data generated as a result of research and scholarly activities conducted at Temple, including reports and data sets required by funders, peer-reviewed academic publications, conference proceedings and abstracts, are subject to Temple’s Responsible Conduct of Research guidelines as well as the standards for accuracy of funding agencies, professional organizations and publication outlets. The DVU review requirement does not apply to these data. Reuse of previously approved data does not excuse you from the responsibility to submit new materials using that data for DVU review. Any document or other material meeting the above criteria must be submitted for review, even if the only data used are data that previously have been reviewed and approved by the DVU. For accreditation-related materials, the requirement for DVU review is in addition to, and not in place of, any existing requirements for review of accreditation materials by Jodi Levine Laufgraben, Vice Provost of Academic Affairs, Assessment and Institutional Research. If you are uncertain as to whether an item must be submitted, please err on the side of review. If review is not needed, the DVU will inform you. Examples of Materials to Submit to DVU This list serves as a guide for examples of materials to submit to DVU and is not a comprehensive list of all items that would require DVU review. Rankings surveys (e.g., US News, Princeton Review) Accreditation reports and requests for additional information Governmental compliance reports Applications or materials submitted for membership in societies and organizations Press releases for the Temple website or external news agencies Marketing materials including, but not limited to, advertisements, flyers, brochures, magazines, pamphlets, billboard copy, and banners that are circulated externally or could be viewed by visitors or students on campus The following are not subject to the DVU review requirement. Internal use only items: emails, memos or similar communications that are provided by Temple faculty/administration/employees to Temple faculty/administrators/employees for purposes of internal discussion or decision-making and not designed for publication, distribution or posting on the Temple website or social media outlets, or any external websites or social media outlets. Materials meeting these criteria should be clearly identified as “intended for internal use only” or “not for publication.” Oral communications between or among Temple faculty, employees or administrators. Data compiled solely for the purposes of internal assessment of student learning or program effectiveness that are only shared internally at Temple as part of the university’s required self-assessment process. (Note: Such data shall be subject to verification if or when they are used in an accreditation report or any other external forum.) When in doubt, please contact the DVU at dvunit@temple.edu for guidance on the types of communications requiring DVU review. Submission Process In the coming weeks, the DVU will introduce an automated submission process. Until then, materials must be submitted via email to dvunit@temple.edu and copy the Chief Compliance Officer at alejandro.diaz@temple.edu. Emails must include a complete copy of the draft materials you wish to publish or issue, together with supporting documentation for all data. If relevant, include screenshots and/or queries for system-generated reports. Please be sure to identify the data elements and supporting documentation in sufficient manner to allow DVU personnel to follow the detailed steps taken to obtain the answers or data being submitted. Emails should also include the names of the individuals who have contributed data and reviewed the materials. An organized and well-supported submission greatly impacts the efficiency of the review. Timing To ensure an accurate and timely review, materials should be submitted to the DVU at least three weeks prior to the target date for external submission or publication. If you require an exception to the three week advance time, please contact the DVU at dvunit@temple.edu. Review and Approval DVU review is intended as a safety net to ensure data accuracy. The initial responsibility to create true and accurate materials remains with the school, college or unit authoring the materials. The DVU will review the accuracy and completeness of submitted data to ensure that both the actual data figures and any statements about the data are accurate and complete. In some cases, although the number may be correct, the written interpretation or description of the number may be inaccurate or potentially misleading. Review most often will involve a collaborative process with open communication between DVU staff and the authoring school, college or unit. The process can be found in the DVU Process Flow document (pdf). Once review is complete, the DVU will provide written approval. Written DVU approval is required before the school, college or unit may complete and publish or issue any materials submitted for review. Additional Information Questions about the DVU process should be directed to the DVU at dvunit@temple.edu or to Alejandro Diaz at alejandro.diaz@temple.edu. Go back to AboutMore in Data Integrity and Data Verification Unit Rankings Data Overview and Updates Quick Reference Guide In-scope Materials Additional Resources Frequently Asked Questions FAQ: Fox School of Business MBA rankings Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Calendar Policies Social Media TUportal TUmail Accessibility Careers at Temple Safety & Emergency Information Ethics & Compliance Privacy Statement Professional Licensure Disclosures Follow Temple University Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community.