Skip to main content Restrict my search to Police Department Submit Close Login to AccessUH Give to UH Search University of Houston Police Department About UHPD General Information History of UHPD UHPD Strategic Vision Become a Police Officer Clery Campus Security Authority Am I a CSA? My Responsibility Get More Info Make a Report FAQs APPLY ONLINE Records & Reports Report a Crime Daily Crime Log Annual Security and Fire Safety Report File a Complaint Give a Compliment Hazard Report Safety & Security Staying Safe Crime Prevention Crime Prevention Services How You Can Prevent Crime Crime Prevention Tips Operation ID Vehicle Accidents Duty to Give Info and Render Aid Crash Involving Damage to a Vehicle Striking an Unattended Vehicle Striking a Fixture or Landscaping Immediate Reporting Police Investigation Resources Sensitive Crimes Violent Incidents Sexual Assault Sex Offender Registry Domestic Violence Hate Crimes Harassment Identity Theft Active Shooter Active Shooter Defined Avoid Lockdown & Deny Alert & Notify Defend & Counter Police Intervention Resources Bomb Threats Explosions Shelter In Place Office Security Community Services Security Escort Blue Light Emergency Phones Camera Network Lost and Found Bike Registration Special Events Money Transfers Policies & Training Campus Carry Policy FAQs Secure Storage Process Senate Bill 4 Racial Profiling Police In-Service Training Civil Protests Contact UHPD UH Home Police Department Community Services Special Events Police Department About UHPD Records and Reports Safety & Security Community Services Security Escort Blue Light Emergency Phones Camera Network Lost and Found Bike Registration Special Events Money Transfer Requests Policies & Training Contact UHPD Contact UHPD 4051 Wheeler Ave. Houston, TX 77204-6191 (713) 743-3333 or 911 from a campus phone non-emergency email police@uh.edu Special Events Request for Police/Safety Services form (pdf) Rates for requested positions can be found on the request form. The University of Houston is committed to making its facilities available for events that are beneficial to the public it serves. These events may be sponsored by a University of Houston division, college, department, student, faculty, staff, or individual and groups not affiliated with the University of Houston. This includes, but is not limited to, athletic, business, community, cultural, fraternity, sorority, political, and professional events. The decision to require special event related police services in part is determined by the nature and size of the event, the extent the event will impact normal university operations, the group’s event history, whether alcohol will be served or available, whether concessions will be sold, and if there will be money collected on site for parking and/or event admission. The final decision to require/waive police services related to special events rests with the Chief of Police. The University of Houston Police Department Officer in Charge of Special Events is the contact person for any group or individual requesting police services for a special event occurring at any university facility. Law enforcement personnel from other police departments may not work special events on campus unless approval is received in advance from the UHPD Chief of Police. An Event Supervisor is required when four or more UHPD personnel (including the Supervisor) are needed for an event. An Event Commander is required when ten or more UHPD personnel (including the Commander and Supervisors) are needed for an event. The need for a Police Dispatcher or a Fire Marshal will be determined by event factors, including the size of the event, nature of the event, the presence of concessions, open flame, or any other factor of concern to the Fire Marshal’s office. More information on special events can be found in the University of Houston Manual of Administrative Policies and Procedures (MAPP) 09.03.01, Reservation and Rental of University Facilities, and 07.01.03, Requesting Special Event Police Officers. If you do not find the information you need, or if you have any questions, please contact the UHPD Special Events office. 4051 Wheeler Ave. Houston, TX 77204-6191 UH Emergency Information Call UHPD: 713-743-3333 Campus Map For Emergencies Dial 911 from a campus phone Non-Emergency email: police@uh.edu Security Escorts Lost and Found Bicycle Registration ©2022 University of Houston. All rights reserved. Report a problem with this page Texas.gov Texas Homeland Security TRAIL Fraud Reporting Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Linking Notice Privacy Notice Open Records/Public Information Act Institutional Résumé Required Reports Electronic & Information Resources Accessibility Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness University Policies