COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW Centers and Institutes Section Menu Majors and Programs Applied Learning Advising Graduate School Online Learning Adult Learning Workforce, Professional and Community Education Student Success University Libraries Transcripts Schedule of Courses Course Catalogs Centers and Institutes Academic Affairs Summer School at WSU Shock Your Career Spring 2021 Course Design Plans Emeritus Faculty Wichita State is a growing force in research nationally. Much of that work takes place in our many centers and institutes, which conduct commercial research for business, industry, the government as well as academia. Here's a comprehensive listing of these vital entities. Centers and Institutes Index • 3DExperience Center • Advanced Technologies Lab for Aerospace Systems - ATLAS • Aircraft Structural Test and Evaluation Center (ASTEC) • Applied Psychology Research Institute • Center for Applied Research and Evaluation • Center for Behavioral Health Initiatives • Center for Economic Development and Business Research • Center for Educational Technologies to Assist Refugee Learners (CETARL) • Center for Energy Studies • Center for Entrepreneurship • ASSURE Center of Excellence for UAS Research • Center of Excellence for Composites and Advanced Materials • Center of Excellence for Technical Training and Human Performance • Center for International Business Advancement • Center for Leadership Development • Center for Management Development • Center for Organizational Development and Collaboration • Center for Physical Activity and Aging • Center for Public Health Initiatives • Center for Public Policy and Management • Center for Real Estate • College of Fine Arts Institute • Community Engagement Institute • Ennovar, Institute of Emerging Technologies and Market Solutions • Environmental Finance Center • FirePoint Innovations Center • GoCreate, A Koch Collaborative • The IMPACT Center • Institute for the Study of Economic Growth (ISEG) • Jerry Moran Center for Advanced Virtual Engineering and Testing (AVET) • Kansas Council for Economic Education • Kansas Small Business Development Center • Midwest Criminal Justice Institute • Molecular Diagnostics Laboratory • National Center for Advanced Materials Performance • National Institute for Aviation Research • Regional Institute on Aging • World Trade Council of Wichita For additions or corrections to this list, please complete the request form at the bottom of the page. 3DExperience Center The 3DEXPERIENCE® Center, a partnership with Dassault Systemes, involves an interconnected community of top researchers, corporations and laboratories to accelerate innovation.The 22,000-square-foot facility at Wichita State University offers the expertise and technology for companies to accelerate their innovation. Aerospace and other industries can target improvements from concept to production and extend to operations - all while facilitating certification. The 3DEXPERIENCE Center enables companies to engage in advanced product development and the manufacturing of next-generation materials and technologies. Learn More Advanced Technologies Lab for Aerospace Systems - ATLAS (Part of the National Institute for Aviation Research) ATLAS – the Advanced Technologies Lab for Aerospace Systems – is a multi-disciplinary manufacturing environment and engineering education program to prepare engineers and educators for the Factory of the Future and to aid the current workforce in seamlessly adapting to advancements in the workplace. Learn More Aircraft Structural Test and Evaluation Center (ASTEC) (Part of the National Institute for Aviation Research) the Aircraft Structural Test and Evaluation Center houses the National Institute for Aviation Research's Full-scale Structural Test Lab. This immense facility encompasses 130,000 square feet (39,000 square meters), has a clear span of 265 feet (80 meters) and ceiling height of 48 feet (14 meters). The lab assesses the structural performance and durability of aerospace and related structures by performing full-scale and component testing (static, durability and damage tolerance), pressure cyclic testing, hail strike testing and material testing. Learn More Center for Applied Research and Evaluation (Part of the Community Engagement Institute) The Center for Applied Research and Evaluation assists organizations and communities in developing clarity about the need for and effectiveness of their efforts or services. We work closely with organizations to ensure our research and evaluation is responsive to their needs, helping answer the questions that are most important to them. Learn More Applied Psychology Research Institute The Applied Psychology Research Institute (APRI) is established to perform funded research associated with the Wichita State University Department of Psychology. The mission of the Research Institute is to advance the applied research and educational objectives of WSU faculty by encouraging, promoting, and supporting research. It supports the pursuit and management of externally funded projects while also connecting researchers with potential sponsors from various funding agencies. The Research Institute also connects graduate students with researchers to provide them with an applied learning experience built to develop knowledge, skills, and values beyond traditional classroom lectures. Learn More Center for Behavioral Health Initiatives (Part of the Community Engagement Institute) The Center for Behavioral Health Initiatives partners with non-profit organizations, healthcare providers, consumer-run organizations, community coalitions, self-help groups, and government entities to build sustainable and responsive relationships and systems. The center provides professional training, group facilitation and planning, policy and system design and analysis, and face-to-face consultation for individuals or small groups Learn More Center for Economic Development and Business Research The Center for Economic Development and Business Research is provides the regional business and economic development community with a reliable and responsive source for business, economic and demographic information, and as an essential partner in the region's economic development process by conducting high-quality, objective research on issues related to the community's current and future economic well-being. Learn More Center for Educational Technologies to Assist Refugee Learners (CETARL) The Center for Educational Technologies to Assist Refugee Learners (CETARL) works together with resettlement agencies, community members, and providers of English as second language classes (ESL) to address the fundamental human right for education and educational opportunities for all communities. Learn More Center for Energy Studies The Center for Energy Studies (CES), one of the 13 university members of the public-private Power Systems Engineering Research Center (PSERC), pursues excellence in energy and electric power industry research and advanced power system education. The CES finds innovative and efficient solutions in the areas of power systems, power quality, energy technologies and communication and control systems. Learn More Center for Entrepreneurship The Center for Entrepreneurship strives to positively impact the university and grow Wichita’s economy by helping students, faculty, and community entrepreneurs learn how to develop innovative ideas and guide them toward commercialization and venture creation. Learn More ASSURE Center of Excellence for UAS Research (Sponsored by the Federal Aviation Administration) The center's mission is to provide high-quality research and support to autonomy stakeholders both within the US and beyond to safely and efficiently integrate autonomous systems into the national and international infrastructure, thereby increasing commerce and overall public safety and benefit. Learn More Center of Excellence for Composites and Advanced Materials (CECAM) (Part of the National Institute for Aviation Research) The Center of Excellence for Composites and Advanced Materials (CECAM) is a division of the FAA’s Joint Advanced Materials and Structure Center of Excellence, established in 2004 to assist in ensuring the safe and reliable application of composites and advanced materials to commercial aircraft. CECAM is headquartered at Wichita State University’s National Institute for Aviation Research. Learn More Center of Excellence for Technical Training and Human Performance (Part of the National Institute for Aviation Research and Federal Aviation Administration) The FAA Center of Excellence for Technical Training and Human Performance, known as COE TTHP, is a consortium of leading aviation research institutions dedicated to helping the FAA revolutionize technical training practices and take human performance to new heights. Learn More Center for International Business Advancement For over 45 years, the Center for International Business Advancement, in partnership with the World Trade Council of Wichita, has and will continue to provide education, to conduct research, and to promote international trade through the Midwest. The center holds monthly events that bring together various stakeholders, including local, national, and international business leaders, government officials and foreign diplomats Learn More Center for Leadership Development (Part of the Community Engagement Institute) The Center for Leadership Development prepares individuals and organizations to lead more intentionally and effectively by designing and facilitating individualized, immersive leadership experiences. Our goal is to enable people to lead in changing times – knowing that all times are changing times. Learn More Center for Management Development The Center for Management Development in the W. Frank Barton School of Business at Wichita State University provides quality professional education to individuals and corporate clients in order to enhance careers and foster workforce development. CMD acts as a strategic partner with organizations to provide you with current business knowledge and the best practices to develop your leaders and employees Learn More Locate the CMD Center for Organizational Development and Collaboration (Part of the Community Engagement Institute) The Center for Organizational Development and Collaboration serves nonprofit organizations, government entities, and community coalitions, helping them make progress on setting goals, creating actionable plans, and developing their programs or boards. Using contemporary group facilitation techniques, staff help organizations and communities create a shared vision, chart a course for progress, and hold participants accountable. Learn More Center for Physical Activity and Aging The purpose of the Center for Physical Activity and Aging (CPAA) is to examine the interrelationships between exercise and aging via research, education, and service. The CPAA then integrates these findings into practical forms of physical activity and multidimensional strategies that allow older adults to maintain or improve their quality of life. Through community outreach programs and workshops, the CPAA provides practical guidance for older adults, as well as those that live and work with them. Learn More Center for Public Health Initiatives (Part of the Community Engagement Institute) The Center for Public Health Initiatives believes that strategic partnerships that build capacity are needed for Kansas to maintain a high performing public health system. The center provides technical assistance, training and evaluation support for local health departments and other organizations that provide public health services. Learn More Center for Public Policy and Management The Public Policy and Management Center (PPMC) at Wichita State University advances public good by strengthening people, organizations and communities. The PPMC provides expertise and support in the areas of research and program evaluation; talent development and professional services; and community development. Learn More Center for Real Estate the Center for Real Estate was established to help deepen the connections between the professional real estate community and the academic programs at Wichita State University. Housed within the W. Frank Barton School of Business, the Center for Real Estate engages in a variety of research, community networking, and student support activities to achieve this goal. Learn More College of Fine Arts Institute The College of Fine Arts Institute provides high-quality and affordable instruction at a professional level for preparatory students and adult learners desiring general or specialized training in the performing arts or music. The Institute serves to enhance the goals of the College of Fine Arts mission as they relate to community cultural development. Learn More Community Engagement Institute The Centers of the WSU’s Community Engagement Institute partner with communities and organizations to strengthen Kansas through education, leadership development, facilitation, project management, and research. Learn More Ennovar, Institute of Emerging Technologies and Market Solutions Ennovar at Wichita State University provides solutions for software, technology, and support services for companies worldwide. Working with partners to address current community, workforce and research needs, the institute has designed an employment model that meets partner needs and enhances the learning process for student employees — integrating education and employment to the benefit of all. Learn More Environmental Finance Center The costs of environmental services, programs and infrastructure continue to rise. At the same time, the individuals, communities and governments tasked with paying for environmental protection are experiencing significant financial burdens. The WSU Environmental Finance Center (EFC), housed within the Hugo Wall School of Public Affairs, is one of 10 Environmental Finance Centers located across the country that provide communities with professional training, technical assistance and applied research to bolster efforts to manage the costs of environmental protection for the public. Learn More FirePoint Innovations Center FirePoint is a partnership between Wichita State University and the US Army’s Combat Capabilities Development Command, Aviation and Missile Center (DEVCOM AvMC). We accelerate joint technology development, transfer and commercialization among DEVCOM, universities, industry and other government organizations. Learn More Locate FirePoint Innovation Center GoCreate, A Koch Collaborative GoCreate is a creative community workspace open to creators of all ages and experiences. Bring an idea and we will help make it come to life! The 18,000-square-foot space offers sophisticated tools and equipment, as well as expert training and a supportive community that can help make your prototypes, projects and dreams come true. Learn More Locate GoCreate The IMPACT Center (Part of the Community Engagement Institute) The IMPACT Center strives to connect people with opportunities to IMPACT their community. Developing and leveraging human capital to IMPACT community is central to all we do. Through internships, fellowships, and volunteer opportunities, people are able to engage their communities and organizations. Learn More Institute for the Study of Economic Growth (ISEG) The Institute for the Study of Economic Growth (ISEG) was established in 2018 to advance the teaching, research, and application of innovative and entrepreneurial activities in a free enterprise economy to enhance societal prosperity through economic growth. Learn More Jerry Moran Center for Advanced Virtual Engineering and Testing (AVET) (Part of the National Institute for Aviation Research) The Jerry Moran Center was opened in 2019 on the Innovation Campus to house NIAR’s Virtual Engineering and Crash Dynamics Labs. The space and updated equipment enable NIAR to expand work volume, hire more employees and provide more precise testing for clients. The facility also features additional client prep bays, which will allow multiple clients to be in the lab at the same time, while maintaining privacy during testing. Learn More Locate the Jerry Moran Center Center for Economic Education The Kansas Council on Economic Education (KCEE) works to equip Kansas teachers with the resources and skills needed to educate the youth of Kansas with knowledge of personal finance and economics. KCEE offers graduate credit courses through the six Centers for Economic Education and non-credit workshops and professional development opportunities across the state. Learn More Kansas Small Business Development Center The WSU Kansas Small Business Development Center offers confidential, no-cost advising to help you start or grow your business. The center also offer over 75 training events each year to support you with all aspects of your work. Learn More Midwest Criminal Justice Institute The Midwest Criminal Justice Institute (MCJI) provides training and technical assistance to criminal justice organizations in Kansas and the surrounding states. MCJI is operated through the School of Criminal Justice and provides a variety of training seminars at little to no cost. Learn More Molecular Diagnostics Laboratory The Molecular Diagnostics Laboratory (MDL) is a new Wichita State laboratory that was created for COVID response and focuses on public health to support COVID-19 prevention and control efforts by providing high-throughput, low-cost, quick-response COVID-19 virus test screening capacity to inform the population and help local health and safety officials to focus their response resources to areas of highest demand. Learn More Locate the MDL National Center for Advanced Materials Performance (Part of the National Institute for Aviation Research) NCAMP, the National Center for Advanced Materials Performance, works with the FAA and industry partners to qualify material systems and populate a shared materials database that can be viewed publicly. NCAMP started as a FAA-funded program within the National Institute for Aviation Research at Wichita State University and stemmed from NASA's 1995 Advanced General Aviation Transport Experiment (AGATE). Learn More National Institute for Aviation Research The National Institute for Aviation Research conducts research, transfers technology and enhances education for the purpose of advancing the nation's aviation industry, and to assist non-aviation industries that may benefit from aviation-related technologies. Learn More Locate NIAR Regional Institute on Aging The Regional Institute on Aging (RIA) is a virtual research organization designed to serve the citizens of metropolitan Wichita, Sedgwick and the adjacent counties through research and service in the field of aging Learn More World Trade Council of Wichita The World Trade Council of Wichita (WTCouncil) was founded in 1975 by Dr. Lee Nehrt, Dr. Dharma deSilva, and Dean Larry McKibbin in concert with 11 area multinational companies to promote international trade and investment in Greater Wichita and south-central Kansas. Learn More Centers and Institutions information submission form Use the form below to submit additions or corrections to the content on this page. Strategic Communications reserves the right to edit submissions for length and style. Only Wichita State University Centers and Institutes will be considered for inclusion. If you see this don't fill out this input box. Contact Name* Contact Email* Contact Phone* Is this an addition to the page or an edit to an existing entry?* New entry Edit to existing entry If this is an edit to an existing entry, only complete the items below that need correction. For new entries, please complete all remaining form elements. Name of Center or Institute* Description Website for the center or institutePlease include the full URL (e.g. including "https://") LocationWhere is the Center or Institute physically located?Form UUID Site Name Submit information 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©