Skip to Main Content Brown University News from Brown Site Navigation Featured Events For Journalists Search Menu 2016 News Breadcrumb Home News from Brown All News News Search News Archive 2022 2021 2020 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 All Previous Years Subscribe to our weekly newsletter 392 Results based on your selections. Health and Medicine Child asthma emergency visits drop after indoor smoking bans December 26, 2016 Fewer children visited emergency rooms for asthma problems in the three years after cities banned indoor smoking than in the three years before, according to a new study. Read Article Open details for Child asthma emergency visits drop after indoor smoking bans News and Events The year in stories December 21, 2016 As 2016 comes to a close, here are 19 highlights among Brown’s most well-read and noteworthy stories from the last year. Read Article Open details for The year in stories Science and Technology Are Uber drivers entrepreneurs? December 21, 2016 A case study created by Brown undergraduates as part of an entrepreneurship class investigates the entrepreneurial aspects of the ridesharing platform’s driver model. Read Article Open details for Are Uber drivers entrepreneurs? Environment Galápagos waters illustrate ecological drama of climate change December 21, 2016 Brown marine biologist Jon Witman and students have spent much of 2016 in the Galápagos Islands, continuing years of chronicling the complex and dramatic ecological changes wrought by the increasingly volatile El Niño – La Niña cycle. Read Article Open details for Galápagos waters illustrate ecological drama of climate change Science and Technology RNA pathway plays key role in health, lifespan, fly study shows December 21, 2016 The piRNA pathway was thought to be most active in the reproductive organs of animals, but researchers have discovered in the common fruit fly that the pathway also operates in a non-reproductive body tissue, playing a vital role in maintaining health and lifespan. Read Article Open details for RNA pathway plays key role in health, lifespan, fly study shows Social Sciences Trust in government tied to compliance with public health policies December 15, 2016 Research by Brown University political scientist shows that citizens who distrust government institutions may disregard government-mandated disease-control measures, with negative implications for public health. Read Article Open details for Trust in government tied to compliance with public health policies News and Events Brown admits 695 early decision applicants December 14, 2016 Students admitted to the Class of 2021 under the University's early decision program were selected from a pool of 3,170 applicants. Read Article Open details for Brown admits 695 early decision applicants News and Events Brown plans for anchor tenancy in proposed Innovation Center December 13, 2016 Envisioning a new home for the School of Professional Studies, the University signed a letter of intent to lease 50,000 square feet over 15 years as part of a major development project by Wexford Science & Technology in Providence’s Jewelry District. Read Article Open details for Brown plans for anchor tenancy in proposed Innovation Center Health and Medicine Famine alters metabolism for successive generations December 12, 2016 A famine that afflicted China between 1959 and 1961 is associated with an increased hyperglycemia risk not only among people who were born then, but also among the children they had a generation later. Read Article Open details for Famine alters metabolism for successive generations Science and Technology Celebration in Stockholm: Kosterlitz receives Nobel Prize December 10, 2016 Brown physicist Michael Kosterlitz stood on the most revered stage in all of science to receive his medal for the 2016 Nobel Prize in Physics. Read Article Open details for Celebration in Stockholm: Kosterlitz receives Nobel Prize Science and Technology Research offers clues about the timing of Jupiter's formation December 9, 2016 The new study shows that Jupiter had probably reached its present day size by about 5 million years after the first solids in the solar system formed. Read Article Open details for Research offers clues about the timing of Jupiter&#039;s formation News and Events Twelve-year-old Rhode Islander commits to Brown lacrosse team December 8, 2016 While many kids can only dream of landing a spot on a top-ranked college sports team, middle-schooler Nicholas Cioe made his wish a reality with the help of the nonprofit Team Impact. Read Article Open details for Twelve-year-old Rhode Islander commits to Brown lacrosse team Health and Medicine Blood-borne HPV antibodies indicate head, neck cancer prognosis December 8, 2016 A new study in JAMA Oncology finds that the presence of particular antibodies of human papillomavirus in blood serum are reliable indicators of five-year head and neck cancer survival. Read Article Open details for Blood-borne HPV antibodies indicate head, neck cancer prognosis News and Events Entrepreneurship at the intersection of diversity and inequality December 6, 2016 The Jonathan M. Nelson Center for Entrepreneurship convened a one-day conference on Monday, Dec. 5, on the simultaneity of agency and inequity of power and privilege in entrepreneurial endeavors. Read Article Open details for Entrepreneurship at the intersection of diversity and inequality News and Events In true entrepreneurial spirit, Brown’s new center is up and running December 6, 2016 In its first semester in operation, the Jonathan M. Nelson Center for Entrepreneurship is building on the University’s tradition of entrepreneurship and making it an essential part of the Brown experience. Read Article Open details for In true entrepreneurial spirit, Brown’s new center is up and running Social Sciences What could repeal or reform of the Affordable Care Act mean for Americans? December 5, 2016 Brown faculty from the School of Public Health, the Watson Institute for International and Public Affairs and the School of Professional Studies weigh in on healthcare reform's uncertain future. Read Article Open details for What could repeal or reform of the Affordable Care Act mean for Americans? News and Events Brown celebrates 100 years of Lessons and Carols December 5, 2016 A capacity crowd enjoyed the traditional holiday service, which included two choral premieres in honor of the milestone anniversary. Read Article Open details for Brown celebrates 100 years of Lessons and Carols Science and Technology New compound targets TB bacterium’s defense against the immune system December 5, 2016 Developed by chemists at Brown University in conjunction with colleagues at MIT and Cornell, the compound could enable a new drug strategy for treating tuberculosis. Read Article Open details for New compound targets TB bacterium’s defense against the immune system News and Events Midyear completion students navigate their own unique paths toward graduation December 2, 2016 Ceremony on Saturday, Dec. 3, will celebrate the diverse achievements of Brown’s “.5ers,” who complete their degree requirements this month. Read Article Open details for Midyear completion students navigate their own unique paths toward graduation Social Sciences A decade after Brown’s historic report, scholars convene to discuss slavery and public history December 2, 2016 Ruth J. Simmons, the University’s president emerita, told a group of pioneering public historians in her keynote address that excellence is built on truth-telling, not lies and secrets. Read Article Open details for A decade after Brown’s historic report, scholars convene to discuss slavery and public history Social Sciences How party activists, not voters in general, drive political polarization December 1, 2016 Assistant professor of sociology at Brown finds that as local political leaders try to leave partisan politics behind, grassroots activists drive local parties to more extreme positions. Read Article Open details for How party activists, not voters in general, drive political polarization Science and Technology Video: Kosterlitz meets with President Obama in the Oval Office December 1, 2016 Obama congratulated four American 2016 Nobel Laureates on their "amazing work." Read Article Open details for Video: Kosterlitz meets with President Obama in the Oval Office News and Events Two Brown seniors, one alumnus named Schwarzman Scholars December 1, 2016 The newly minted program, modeled on the Rhodes Scholarship, provides funding for graduate study at Tsinghua University in Beijing with the goal of promoting a broader understanding of China’s global role. Read Article Open details for Two Brown seniors, one alumnus named Schwarzman Scholars Science and Technology Brown’s influential biomechanics X-ray technology grows ever more powerful November 30, 2016 Two recent papers describe the latest ways that XROMM technology, which has spread to dozens of similar research facilities worldwide, enables studies of human and animal motion in previously unseen detail. Read Article Open details for Brown’s influential biomechanics X-ray technology grows ever more powerful Science and Technology Quantum obstacle course changes material from superconductor to insulator November 30, 2016 The research could help scientists better understand how defects can affect the quantum behavior of materials. Read Article Open details for Quantum obstacle course changes material from superconductor to insulator Science and Technology Nobel Prize festivities to kick off with D.C. event November 29, 2016 A week before heading to Sweden to receive the Nobel Prize, Brown physicist and 2016 Nobel Laureate Michael Kosterlitz will meet President Obama and participate in a discussion at the Swedish Embassy in Washington, D.C. Read Article Open details for Nobel Prize festivities to kick off with D.C. event News and Events Brown senior, recent alumnus earn Marshall Scholarships November 29, 2016 A senior concentrating in archaeology and a Class of 2016 graduate studying puppetry in Indonesia are among the 2017 recipients of the prestigious academic awards, which allow for post-graduate study in the United Kingdom. Read Article Open details for Brown senior, recent alumnus earn Marshall Scholarships Health and Medicine To improve disaster response, New England medical experts confer at Brown November 29, 2016 When a storm or an attack happens, New England’s emergency physicians will be better prepared and able to share resources because of a recently formed society, which will meet at Brown on Dec. 1. Read Article Open details for To improve disaster response, New England medical experts confer at Brown Arts and Humanities Brown musician, composer finds inspiration in unexpected spaces November 28, 2016 For Assistant Professor of Music Eric Nathan, November brought the premiere of a new composition by the Boston Symphony Orchestra and a Copland House residency award announcement. Read Article Open details for Brown musician, composer finds inspiration in unexpected spaces Health and Medicine Diet quality low but steadily improving among U.S. kids November 23, 2016 An analysis of diet quality among more than 38,000 U.S. children shows that nutrition for the nation’s kids has been getting steadily better in recent years, but what they eat is still far from ideal and disparities persist by income, race and receipt of government food assistance. Read Article Open details for Diet quality low but steadily improving among U.S. kids News and Events ‘Jane the Virgin’ star to Brown students: Be the hero in your own story November 22, 2016 In a lecture that drew on her personal and professional experiences, actress Gina Rodriguez told students to be bold, to take risks and to be the heroes in their own stories. Read Article Open details for ‘Jane the Virgin’ star to Brown students: Be the hero in your own story News and Events Brown president joins fellow university presidents in urging DACA’s continuation November 21, 2016 Statement signed by more than 100 presidents cites the positive impact of students in the U.S. via the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program and calls on leaders from other sectors to join universities in advocating the continuation and expansion of the program. Read Article Open details for Brown president joins fellow university presidents in urging DACA’s continuation Science and Technology Scientists reconstruct formation of the Appalachians November 21, 2016 A new study finds that the process that built the Appalachian Mountains 300 million years ago is similar to the process building the Himalayas today. Read Article Open details for Scientists reconstruct formation of the Appalachians Health and Medicine Opioids, NSAIDs no different overall for persistent pain after crashes November 21, 2016 A new study finds that on average, the risk of chronic pain after a car accident was no greater among people given NSAIDs than among people given opioids, but those with opioids were more likely to remain on medication longer. Read Article Open details for Opioids, NSAIDs no different overall for persistent pain after crashes Science and Technology National Academies of Sciences, Engineering, and Medicine committee tackles data privacy and national security November 17, 2016 Seny Kamara, a computer scientist at Brown, is part of a committee that will explore the tradeoffs between data privacy, encryption, national security and law enforcement. Read Article Open details for National Academies of Sciences, Engineering, and Medicine committee tackles data privacy and national security Science and Technology Study reveals workings of immune response to deadly fungal infections November 17, 2016 Now that scientists understand what triggers key steps in the immune response to menacing fungi such as Candida albicans, they hope to develop ways to make it work better. Read Article Open details for Study reveals workings of immune response to deadly fungal infections News and Events In 'Walkout' march, students voice social concerns November 16, 2016 Students engaged in a large march and rally on campus Nov. 16, one of several around the country, to express concern for students whom they see as marginalized after a divisive election season. Read Article Open details for In &#039;Walkout&#039; march, students voice social concerns Arts and Humanities Bell Gallery presents an exhibition by Fatma Bucak November 16, 2016 New exhibit of photographs and video performances addresses conflict in Turkey and the Turkish-Syrian border. Read Article Open details for Bell Gallery presents an exhibition by Fatma Bucak News and Events Brown president’s statement on vandalism of flags November 16, 2016 Last week’s actions are in direct opposition to Brown’s values. Read Article Open details for Brown president’s statement on vandalism of flags Arts and Humanities One Big Self: Celebrating the life and poetry of C.D. Wright November 16, 2016 In a two-day event titled “Come Shining: In Tribute to C.D. Wright,” the University celebrated the work and influence of the late professor and poet, who died earlier this year. Read Article Open details for One Big Self: Celebrating the life and poetry of C.D. Wright News and Events Robert C. Post on why speech at universities must be regulated November 14, 2016 Legal scholar argues that free speech, as defined by the First Amendment, would prevent universities from fulfilling their dual missions of research and teaching. Read Article Open details for Robert C. Post on why speech at universities must be regulated News and Events Video: Research Matters! focuses on impact of scholarship November 14, 2016 At an event in the style of TED Talks, Brown graduate students speak about how their research connects to the issues of today. Read Article Open details for Video: Research Matters! focuses on impact of scholarship Health and Medicine $27 million gift to expand Brown’s effort to decipher disease, improve health November 14, 2016 A new gift from The Warren Alpert Foundation will allow the University to substantially expand and enhance its M.D./Ph.D. program and endow a professorship in the Brown Institute for Translational Science. Read Article Open details for $27 million gift to expand Brown’s effort to decipher disease, improve health Health and Medicine Biomedical breakthroughs at the Brown Institute for Translational Science November 14, 2016 Brown University is pursuing a strategic vision to ensure that the most promising advances in basic biomedical research become new treatments for patients. Read Article Open details for Biomedical breakthroughs at the Brown Institute for Translational Science News and Events Veterans Day ceremony at Brown calls for unity, reflection November 11, 2016 A crowd near the flagpole on the College Green processed to the tune of bagpipes and patriotic salutes as Brown’s annual ceremony to honor service members stepped off on Friday, Nov. 11. Read Article Open details for Veterans Day ceremony at Brown calls for unity, reflection Social Sciences Watson Institute faculty offer perspective on the presidential election November 9, 2016 Six faculty members from Brown's Watson Institute for International and Public Affairs comment on key issues that will concern the American electorate and the next president. Read Article Open details for Watson Institute faculty offer perspective on the presidential election Health and Medicine Neuroscience researchers restore leg movement in primates November 9, 2016 The research is a step toward the development of a system that might help in rehabilitating people who have suffered spinal cord injuries. Read Article Open details for Neuroscience researchers restore leg movement in primates Health and Medicine Treating cholera in Haiti after Hurricane Matthew November 9, 2016 In a pair of tents on the grounds of a health center in a tiny town, Dr. Adam Levine is managing a cholera treatment unit where the staff still sees 10 to 15 new cases a day, more than a month after Hurricane Matthew. Read Article Open details for Treating cholera in Haiti after Hurricane Matthew Science and Technology Brown planetary scientist elected to Russian Academy of Sciences November 8, 2016 Professor Jim Head is honored as a foreign member for his decades of contributions to planetary science. Read Article Open details for Brown planetary scientist elected to Russian Academy of Sciences Arts and Humanities In wake of gift, University renames Judaic studies building November 8, 2016 With support from a Class of 1971 graduate and his wife, the department will pursue improvements in support of its scholarship on Jewish history, literature, language, politics and religions. Read Article Open details for In wake of gift, University renames Judaic studies building Previous 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 Next Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown Social Navigation Facebook Instagram LinkedIn Snapchat Twitter YouTube Social Media Directory © Brown University Brown University For You Current Students Faculty Staff Parents & Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Featured Events For Journalists Topics Arts and Humanities Environment Health and Medicine News and Events Science and Technology Social Sciences Student Life University Initiatives Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation About Events For You Give to Brown All of Brown.edu People News Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search 2016 News Open details for 2016 News Bookmark this Page