Skip to main content Google Tag Manager Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Home Research Education News Events People About Giving Shop Contact Us Biology & Paleo Environment Tree Ring Lab Core Repository Geochemistry Hudson River Field Station Marine Geology & Geophysics Marine/Large Programs Office of Marine Operations Ocean & Climate Physics Seismology, Geology and Tectonophysics Rock & Ice Mechanics Lab Visitor Opportunities Core Repository Hudson River Field Station Open House Student & Educator Programs Rockland P.L.U.S. Day in the Life of the Hudson Secondary School Field Research Summer Intern Programs Next Gen Hudson River Educators Earth2Class Resources Polar Science Climate & Sustainability Hudson River Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs Earth Science News Lamont in the Media Newsletter News Archive All Events Earth Science Colloquium Series Biology & Paleo Environment Seminars Geochemistry Seminars Geodynamics Seminars Marine Geology & Geophysics/Seismology, Geology & Tectonophysics Seminars Ocean & Climate Physics Seminars Summer Stars Lecture Series History Director's Office Director's Reports Academic Affairs & Diversity Anti-Racism Commitment Alumni Awards The Vetlesen Prize Lamont Awards Outside Awards Climate Center Luminaries & Signature Events Annual Reports Lamont Features Map Careers Open Positions Postdoctoral Fellowships Research Visitors Visitor Info Contact & Directions Shuttle Schedule Campus Café Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory You are here: Home Contact Us Contact Us General Contact Information Mailing Address: Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory P.O. Box 1000 61 Route 9W Palisades, NY 10964-1000 USA Email: [email protected] Phone: 845-359-2900 Fax: 845-365-8101 Visit our People page for all of our scientists and staff, the Columbia Directory for quick lookup by name, or the Columbia Directory filtered by Lamont-Doherty for a complete list (UNI required). Media Inquiries Kevin Krajick Office: 212-854-9729 Cell: 917-361-7766 [email protected] Caroline Adelman Cell: 917-370-1407 [email protected] Requests for Photos, Permissions, Historical Information, or Campus Tours Marian Mellin 845-365-8636 [email protected] Marian Mellin 845-365-8636 [email protected] Website Questions or Feedback [email protected] [email protected] Lamont Shuttle Information & Schedule To/From Columbia Morningside Campus (120th Street in front of Teacher's College by the Guard Booth) Directions From Westchester Take I-287 west across the Tappan Zee Bridge. Take the first exit after the bridge (Exit 10 Nyack). Proceed South on Rte. 9W for a distance of approximately 5 miles. Lamont-Doherty will be on your left. From NYC & Long Island Take the upper level of the George Washington Bridge to the first exit (Palisades Interstate Parkway). Proceed north on the parkway for a distance of approximately 10 miles to Exit 4 (Rte. 9W). At the end of the exit ramp at the stop light, turn left onto Rte. 9W North and proceed north for a distance of approximately 200 yards. Lamont-Doherty will be on your right. From Upstate NY & Northern NJ Take the New York State Thruway South to Exit 13 (Palisades Interstate Parkway South). Proceed on the Parkway south for a distance of approximately 10 miles to Exit 4 (Rte. 9W). At the end of the exit ramp, turn right onto 9W North. Proceed on 9W for a distance of approximately 1 mile. Lamont-Doherty will be on your right. From NJ Via Route 80 & Points West Take Rte. 80 East (remain in local lanes) to the Palisades Interstate Parkway exit just before the George Washington Bridge. Follow signs to the Palisades Interstate Parkway. Proceed north on the Parkway for a distance of approximately 10 miles to Exit 4 (Rte. 9W). At the end of the exit ramp at the stop light, turn left onto Rte. 9W North and proceed north for a distance of approximately 200 yards. Lamont-Doherty will be on your right. From NJ Via Route 95 & Points South Take Rte. 95 North to Rte. I-80 East (remain in local lanes) to the Palisades Interstate Parkway exit just before the George Washington Bridge. Follow signs to the Palisades Interstate Parkway. Proceed north on the Parkway for a distance of approximately 10 miles to Exit 4 (Rt. 9W). At the end of the exit ramp at the stop light, turn left onto Rt. 9W North and proceed north for a distance of approximately 200 yards. Lamont-Doherty will be on your right. Google Map Location Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory61 Route 9W · Palisades, NY 10964 Phone 845-359-2900 Contact Us [email protected] Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close