Skip to main content Submit Close Give to UH Search About Academics Admissions Campus Life Research Athletics Locations Sugar Land Katy UH Technology Bridge News & Events Giving UH Home Costs & Financial Aid Undergraduate Costs & Financial Aid Types of Aid Scholarships Costs & Financial Aid Undergraduate Costs & Financial Aid How to Apply Tuition & Fees Types of Aid Cougar Emergency Fund COVID-19 Financial Aid Scholarships George Foundation Academic Excellence Scholarship Grants Loans Work-Study Financial Incentives Summer Aid Spring Aid Scholarships & Financial Aid Forms FAQs Undergraduate Admissions Financial Literacy Graduate Costs & Financial Aid Find your Financial Aid Advisor Payment Information Contact Us Other Scholarship Sources Access Scholarship Search American Indian College Fund Collegeboard College for All Texans FinAid.org Financial Aid for Minority Students Golden Door Scholars Hispanic Scholarship Fund Sallie Mae Scholarship Search Scholarship America Scholarship Universe Society of Women Engineers StudentScholarships.org Thurgood Marshall College Fund UNCF University of Houston Foundation Scholarships Looking for ways to fund your education? If you can demonstrate academic excellence and leadership, you may qualify for a UH scholarship at the University of Houston. Information on University Funded Merit Scholarships for Incoming Freshmen and Transfer students, as well as all other types of scholarship opportunities for UH students can be found below. Meet Scholarship Universe. The Office of Scholarships and Financial Aid is excited to introduce Scholarship Universe, a new online tool that makes finding and applying for both UH scholarships and external scholarships easier. The tool is located within your AccessUH account. Just look for the Scholarship Universe icon (pictured). New students gain access to the tool as soon as they are admitted. Scholarship Universe will also match students to individual college scholarships for which they qualify*. *Please note that some individual college scholarships are not currently listed in the tool. However, students can still apply separately for these scholarships by clicking on the college links below. How does Scholarship Universe work? Once students login to the portal, they answer questions that match them to scholarship opportunities for which they are eligible Students can then easily apply online to multiple scholarship opportunities through the personalized portal Students can track their application statuses via the portal Students are alerted whenever they are matched to a new scholarship opportunity If you are a donor and would like to have your scholarship added to Scholarship Universe, please email your scholarship information to support@campuslogic.com. Once your scholarship is vetted, it will be loaded into Scholarship Universe for University of Houston students to apply to. *Disclaimer: Reference within this site or Scholarship Universe to any specific scholarship or organization by trade name, trademark, manufacturer or otherwise does not constitute or imply an endorsement, recommendation, or favoring by the University of Houston or the Office of Scholarships and Financial Aid. Links to external or third-party websites, are provided solely for visitors' convenience. Read more > The University of Houston does not endorse or accept any responsibility for the content or the use of such websites. The University of Houston’s Office of Scholarships and Financial Aid does not give any representation regarding the quality, safety, suitability or reliability of any external websites or any of the content or materials contained in them. It is important for users to take necessary precautions, especially to ensure appropriate safety from viruses, worms, Trojan horses and other potentially destructive items. When visiting external websites, users should review those sites' privacy policies and other terms of use to learn more about, what, why and how they collect and use any personally identifiable information. Types of Scholarships University Funded Merit Scholarships Scholarships for Transfers Scholarships for International Students University Endowed Scholarships University Privately Funded Scholarships Undergraduate Research Scholarships College-Specific Scholarships State Funded Scholarships Learning Abroad Scholarships Outside Scholarships University Funded Merit Scholarships The University funds several academically-competitive scholarships for incoming freshmen. In order to be considered for a university-funded scholarship, you must meet the following criteria: Apply for admission to UH for the fall semester immediately following high school graduation. Complete your application for admission, including the submission of all supporting documentation (application, application fee, official transcripts, and test scores), by the priority date. University-funded scholarships for incoming freshmen include: 2022-2023 Academic Excellence Scholarship Academic Excellence Scholarship awarding for the Fall 2021 class has concluded. The profile of the incoming freshman class varies from year to year. In the Fall 2021 class, the average Academic Excellence Scholarship awardee had an average total score of 1265 on the SAT (Evidence-Based Reading and Writing + Math) or an ACT Composite of 26, with a class rank in the top 10 percent and an unweighted GPA of 3.73. (The unweighted GPA is calculated by the University of Houston using English, math, science, and social studies grades.) Scholarship Priority Deadlines Application Deadline: November 1, 2021 Supporting Information* Due: November 15, 2021 *Supporting information includes application fee, self-reporting transcript information, test scores (if applicable). If applying without test scores, supporting information also includes your essay and resume. Students with no class rank: Students without a class rank can still be considered for Academic Excellence Scholarships. In such cases, the University determines scholarship eligibility based on the other information available, namely test scores and high school GPA. Cullen Leadership Scholarship Amount: $1,000 per year (renewable for up to four years) Qualifications: For students who have a competitive academic profile and demonstrated leadership skills. Recipients are selected by the Student Financial Support Committee from among the pool of admitted applicants. No additional application is necessary. National Merit Scholarship Finalist Amount: Full cost of tuition and required fees, for four years (five years for architecture students). In addition, recipients are eligible for a one-time $1,000 undergraduate research stipend and a one-time $2,000 study abroad stipend. Candidates who complete the FAFSA may be eligible for additional financial support. See the chart below for a summary of benefits. Qualifications: The University of Houston will automatically award scholarship support to National Merit Scholarship finalists who select the University of Houston as their first-choice institution in accordance with the rules and deadlines established by the National Merit Scholarship Corporation (NMSC). Tier One Scholarship Fall 2022: To learn more about the Tier One Scholarship and the selection process, please visit the Tier One Scholars website. Award Maximums Any scholarship counts as a financial resource and must be considered when constructing a financial aid award package. A student’s total financial aid cannot exceed the cost of attendance (COA). COA is an estimate of what it costs the typical student to attend the University of Houston. Your COA includes tuition and fees, room and board, books and supplies, transportation and personal expenses. Exceptions are made for Federal Pell Grant Program recipients, whose financial aid packages can add up to the COA plus the amount of the Federal Pell Grant Program funds. Awards from the University of Houston are subject to change depending on the entire student award package and the student's COA. Scholarship Renewal Requirements Academic Excellence, National Merit, Tier One, and Cullen Leadership Scholarships will renew each year (up to 8 undergraduate semesters, or 10 semesters for architecture students) provided you meet the requirements listed below. These requirements went into effect during the 2018-19 academic year and apply only to students receiving one of the university funded merit scholarships as of Fall 2018 or later. Maintain full-time enrollment (12 credit hours) at UH each fall and spring semester. Your scholarship funds will not credit to your account if you are enrolled in fewer than 12 credit hours. Maintain a cumulative GPA of at least 3.0. The GPA calculation only includes courses taken at UH. Complete and pass a total of 30 credit hours by the end of the summer following your first year at UH, 60 hours by the end of the second year, and 90 hours by the end of the third year. Transfer, AP, and dual credit hours will count toward this requirement. Additional details to note: Transfer hours may be counted toward your total credit hours completed, but they do not count toward your cumulative GPA. Credit hours for repeated courses do not count toward the credit hour requirements. If you have AP or dual credit for a course and you take the course at UH, it is considered a repeat course and will not count toward your credit hour requirements. Your advisor can help you remove AP credit if necessary. Courses completed with grades of I, U, W or F are not counted toward the credit hour requirements. Summer courses taken at UH will count toward your credit hours and GPA requirements, but tuition and fees for those courses will not be funded by the scholarship. The University strongly recommends completing your scholarship requirements during the fall and spring semesters. Back to Top Scholarships for Transfers Thinking of transferring to UH? If you show academic promise, you may be eligible for the scholarships below: Transfer Excellence Scholarship Amount: $1,000 per year ($500 per term) Priority Deadline: May 15, 2022 To meet the priority deadline for Transfer Excellence, applicants must be admitted by the priority date. Spring semester 2022 transcripts should be submitted as soon as possible after the spring semester has ended, but no later than June 30. 2022-2023 Transfer Excellence Scholarship Requirements: To be eligible, an applicant must: be admitted as a transfer student to the University of Houston for the fall term, enroll in a minimum 12 credit hours per semester at the University of Houston (central campus), have 48 or more transferable hours from a regionally accredited U.S. institution and have a 3.0 GPA (on a 4.0-point scale). Awards are offered to eligible applicants for fall admission, as funding is available. No separate scholarship application is required. Transfer Excellence Scholarships qualify for non-resident tuition waivers. Transfer Excellence Scholarships are renewable for one additional year, provided recipients complete and pass 24 credit hours at the University of Houston (central campus) and earn a cumulative GPA of 3.0 by the end of their first spring term. If you submitted additional transcripts after being admitted and would like to be re-evaluated for this scholarship based on an increase of transferable credit hours earned, or your cumulative transferable GPA, please click here to complete the Transfer Excellence Scholarship GPA Calculation Update Request Form. Transfer Achievement Scholarship Amount: $1,000 one-time award. To be eligible, an applicant must: be admitted as a transfer student to the University of Houston for the spring term, enroll in a minimum of 12 credit hours per semester at the University of Houston (central campus), have more than 15 transferable hours from a regionally accredited U.S. institution, have a 3.0 GPA (on a 4.0-point scale), and demonstrate financial need, based on a completed FAFSA (or TASFA, as appropriate) Awards are offered to eligible applicants as funding is available. No separate scholarship application is required. Transfer Achievement Scholarships are not renewable, and do not qualify students for non-resident tuition waivers. Back to Top Scholarships for International Students Creative Biolabs Scholarship Jack & D'Ann Burke International Scholarship Endowment Applicants must demonstrate active involvement in international education activities, have completed one semester of full-time study at the University of Houston and be currently enrolled full-time. All undergraduate applicants must have at least a cumulative 3.0 GPA, and all graduate applicants must have at least a cumulative 3.5 GPA. For United States citizens and permanent residents, financial need will be determined by guidelines from the UH Office of Scholarships and Financial Aid. Back to Top University Endowed Scholarships The Aldredge Family Scholarship Endowment The Aldredge Family scholarship is open to academically competitive undergraduate students. Eligible applicants must be degree-seeking students in good standing with the University of Houston, demonstrate financial need as determined by the FAFSA or TASFA, and have a minimum 3.25 cumulative GPA. Log into Scholarship Universe to apply. The tool is located within your AccessUH account. Astronaut/Space Studies Scholarship Endowment The Astronaut/Space Studies scholarship is for students interested in becoming an astronaut or pursuing a career in the nation’s space program. Scholarship applicant must be a certified full-time degree-seeking student, maintain a 3.0 GPA and provide notice to the Office of Scholarships & Financial Aid of summer work with NASA or another space related organization. Scholarship prospect’s studies must demonstrate some area of preparation for a career in the space program. Eligible programs of study: Bachelor of Science in Physics, Master of Science in Space Architecture, Master of Science in Aerospace Engineering, Master of Science in Materials Engineering, Master of Science in Industrial Engineering or a Doctor of Philosophy in Aerospace Engineering. Scholarship is renewable for up to 8 semesters. Log into Scholarship Universe to apply. The tool is located within your AccessUH account. Delphian Endowment Scholarship The Delphian scholarship is based upon merit, character and financial need. It is only available for the Fall and Spring semesters, up to 8 semesters or graduation, whichever comes first. Students will be considered without regard to gender, age, religion, race or ethnic origin, but must be a citizen or permanent resident of the United States. Qualifying applicants must be classified as an undergraduate sophomore, junior, or senior, have a minimum cumulative GPA of 3.0 from all colleges attended as well as maintain full-time enrollment (12 credit hours) each semester. Additionally, applicants must submit an official University of Houston transcript and/or transcripts from any previously attended university or college with the application. Carole and Jim Hegenbarth Scholarship Endowment Amount: $1,000 (one time award) The Carole and Jim Hegenbarth scholarship was established to help first generation students achieve their dream of higher education. Eligible applicants must be certified undergraduate, degree-seeking students in good standing with the University of Houston, and demonstrate financial need as determined by the FAFSA. Log into Scholarship Universe to apply. The tool is located within your AccessUH account. CenterPoint Energy UH Alumni Scholarship Endowment The CenterPoint Energy UH Alumni Scholarship Endowment is for dependents of CenterPoint Energy employees, or an employee who has been working for CenterPoint Energy for at least one year. Applicants must be less than 26 years old, attend school full time and show financial need according to the FASFA. Log into Scholarship Universe to apply. The tool is located within your AccessUH account. Engines of Our Ingenuity Scholarship This scholarship is open to any creative-thinking, junior or senior undergraduate student at the University of Houston. To qualify, a student must be full-time (12 hours or more) with a minimum 3.0 cumulative GPA. Applicants must submit a one-page essay describing how they exhibit “creative” and “inventive” qualities. Log into Scholarship Universe to apply. The tool is located within your AccessUH account. Feng and Fuling Chao Scholarship The Feng and Fuling Chao Scholarship is open to any undergraduate, degree-seeking student in good standing with the University of Houston. Log into Scholarship Universe to apply. The tool is located within your AccessUH account. Franklin and Virginia Law Scholarship The Franklin Virginia Law Scholarship is open to any degree-seeking undergraduate student who is in good academic standing at the time the scholarship is awarded. To qualify, the student must be enrolled full-time (12 hours or more) with a minimum 2.0 GPA or graduated from an accredited Texas high school with a minimum of 2.5 GPA, and have a financial need as determined by FAFSA. The student must demonstrate leadership qualities and shall submit two (2) letters of recommendation for the scholarship (preferably from teachers and professors). Student must be a United States citizen or permanent resident and a resident of Texas for fifteen (15) years preceding the date the scholarship is awarded. Log into Scholarship Universe to apply. The tool is located within your AccessUH account. Houston Office Leasing Brokers Association Scholarship Endowment The Houston Office Leasing Brokers Association (HOLBA) Scholarship is for students in the College of Business Administration, Engineering, Social Sciences (Economics), and/or Technology. Scholarship applicants must demonstrate an interest in pursuing a career in office leasing or commercial real estate, be a certified junior or senior degree-seeking student in good standing, must be enrolled for minimum of 12 hours each semester of awarding, and maintain a 3.0 GPA or better. Log into Scholarship Universe to apply. The tool is located within your AccessUH account. M.A. Jinnah Scholarship Undergraduate scholarship applicants must have completed at least 24 credit hours at the University of Houston. Graduate scholarship applicants must have completed at least 12 credit hours. Scholarship applicant must be a certified full-time undergraduate or graduate degree-seeking student in good standing at the University of Houston. Scholarship applicant must not be on academic or disciplinary probation. Scholarship applicant must have and must maintain a GPA of 3.0 or greater. Scholarship applicant must submit a handwritten 400-word essay in Urdu on the life of M.A. Jinnah. (Essays become the property of the University of Houston and may be reprinted in Pakistan Association of Greater Houston publications.) Scholarship recipient may accept other scholarships and grants in conjunction with this scholarship up to the cost of attendance, which includes tuition, fees, books, room and board, transportation and personal expenses. Scholarship recipient may re-apply for the M.A. Jinnah Scholarship each year the application is open. Log into Scholarship Universe to apply. The tool is located within your AccessUH account. Peggy & Bill Shiffick Foundation Scholarship Applicants for the Peggy & Bill Shiffick must be full-time, undergraduate, degree-seeking students who demonstrate financial need (as determined by the FAFSA or TAFSA) and have a minimum of a 3.0 GPA. Robert and Esther Stadtler Scholarship The Robert and Esther Stadtler Scholarship is open to sophomores and seniors who are seeking a degree at the University of Houston. To qualify, students must be full-time (12 hours or more) with a minimum 3.0 cumulative GPA and have financial need as determined by FAFSA. Students must also submit their résumé and a brief statement detailing leadership qualities, character, scholastic ability and achievements. Log into Scholarship Universe to apply. The tool is located within your AccessUH account. The Woman’s Club of Houston Scholarship The Woman’s Club of Houston Scholarship is a one-time, annual award of up to $1,500. To qualify, an applicant must be a certified junior or senior student seeking an undergraduate degree in the field of Education or Fine Arts for Fall 2016/Spring 2017, enroll in a minimum of 12 credit hours each semester of award and maintain a 3.0 GPA. The applicant also must demonstrate an interest in contributing to the community through participation in community service activities. In addition, the applicant must be a U.S. citizen or permanent resident. Log into Scholarship Universe to apply. The tool is located within your AccessUH account. Back to Top University Privately Funded Scholarships Each year, a number of foundations, corporations, and individuals provide funding for UH scholarships. Some of these privately funded scholarships are designed to support students in a particular discipline or from a specific heritage or geographic region; others are open to students of any major or background. Offerings change often according to availability of funds and the time of the school year. Alief Achievement Fund Scholarship The Alief Achievement Scholarship Fund Scholarship will be used to award Alief Independent School District High School seniors who exhibit leadership skills and will attend the University of Houston Main Campus. Scholarship applicant must also demonstrate financial need. To apply, applicant must submit résumé, two letters of recommendation and a 500-word narrative outlining why applicant wants to attend the University of Houston and how this scholarship will enable him/her to meet his/her goals. All scholarship documents should be submitted to the Office of Scholarships and Financial Aid. If selected, scholarship recipient must maintain a cumulative 2.75 GPA and remain a full-time student (a minimum of 12 hours per semester) at the University of Houston (main campus). Scholarship award is renewable for a maximum of 4 years (or 8 semesters) provided the recipient continues to meet the eligibility requirements. Log into Scholarship Universe to apply. The tool is located within your AccessUH account. Alonzo Cantu Scholarship The Alonzo Cantu Scholarship is for incoming freshmen who graduated from any high school in Hidalgo County, Texas. Scholarship applicants must be ranked in the top 25 percent of their graduating class, demonstrate financial need and be Federal Pell Grant Program-eligible. Students will be evaluated based on academic achievement, letters of recommendation and a personal statement. The award is renewable for up to four years with a maximum amount of $16,000 for students who maintain a 2.75 GPA, full-time enrollment, and remain Federal Pell Grant Program-eligible. Applicant must be a U.S. citizen or permanent resident. Recipients may receive the Alonzo Cantu Scholarship and additional scholarships to assist in paying for college. For more instructions on how to apply, click here. Army Reserve Officers' Training Corps (AROTC) Scholarship The Army Reserves Officers' Training Corps (AROTC) Scholarship is awarded for academic and personal achievement and pays annually an amount determined by the U.S. Army. The scholarship includes funding for tuition, a flat rate for textbooks, equipment, and supplies, and a subsistence allowance. Recipients must enroll and fully participate in Army ROTC. Four-year AROTC scholarships are applied for during the latter part of the junior or the early part of the senior year of high school. Two- and three-year AROTC scholarships are applied for during the sophomore and freshman years, respectively, through the Department of Military Science. For further information, contact the Military Science Department at 713-743-8460. Bangladesh America Literary, Art and Cultural Association Scholarship The Bangladesh America Literary, Art and Cultural Association Scholarship is for undergraduate and graduate students who are interested in Bangladeshi history, art, culture or literature. Students must submit an essay expressing their interest, and be enrolled full time. The scholarship is nonrenewable. Applicants must reapply. Recipients may receive the Bangladesh America Literary, Art and Cultural Association Scholarship and additional scholarships to assist in paying for college. For more instructions on how to apply, click here. Textbook Scholarship Amount: $1,000 per year ($500 per semester) Textbook scholarships will be awarded to selected UH students who have been admitted to undergraduate programs to support student success and access at UH. Selected applicants will receive a total of $1,000/academic year ($500/semester). Log into Scholarship Universe to apply. The tool is located within your AccessUH account. Beatrice and Jesse Mladenka-Fowler Scholarship Deadline: May 1 (fall) and Oct.1 (spring) The Mladenka-Fowler Scholarship offers financial assistance to full-time students at UH who encounter economic hardships that might oblige them to withdraw from full-time progress towards graduation. Delphian Scholarship Deadline: March 1 The Houston Assembly of Delphian Chapters Scholarship Foundation Fund Scholarships are offered only to sophomore, junior, or senior year students. Selection for a Delphian Foundation Scholarship is based on these factors: Scholarship, Merit, Character and Financial Need as determined by the Delphian Scholarship Committee. Diamond Family Scholars Program The Diamond Family Scholars Program goal is to increase successful outcomes among youth who have experienced foster care and are now transitioning into higher education at the University of Houston. Through the Diamond Family Scholars Program, we seek to provide: Scholarships to undergraduate students accepted into the Diamond Family Scholars Program; Hands-on support for eligible students in accessing financial aid and scholarships specific to youth who have experienced foster care, allowing students to maximize their potential to graduate from college with little to no debt; Support for eligible students in need of year-round housing on campus to ensure a stable living environment; Specialized orientation, advising, mentorship and activities designed to assist eligible students with navigating the University of Houston; A campus network and community that is dedicated to student success. Please click here to access the application and additional information. George Family Scholarship The George Family Scholarship is open to any degree-seeking undergraduate student that has graduated from the Aldine Independent School District in Houston, Texas. To qualify, the student must have graduated high school with a 2.75 GPA or higher and be enrolled full time (12 hours or more) and maintain a minimum 2.75 GPA. For instructions on how to apply, click here. Gerald McElvy Scholarship The Gerald W. McElvy Scholarship was funded by alumnus and Board of Regents member Gerald W. McElvy. The scholarship recipient(s) must declare an intent to teach mathematics or science in a middle or high school, or — with an interest in pursuing a career in business — declare a major in the C.T. Bauer College of Business. The scholarship recipient(s) will be determined by the UH Scholarship Selection Committee. Financial need, as determined by federal or state methodology, is a consideration. Log into Scholarship Universe to apply. The tool is located within your AccessUH account. Mark & Judith Cook Foundation Scholarship Amount: Full-ride The Mark and Judith Cook Foundation are pleased to award a full-ride scholarship to students who have been accepted to the University of Houston (main campus). Applicant must be a Texas resident, U.S. citizen or permanent resident and have a permanent address in the Tamina community located within zip code 77385. Scholarship applicant must also demonstrate financial need. Applicant must submit a résumé, two letters of recommendation and a 250-word narrative outlining why applicant wants to attend the University of Houston and how this scholarship will enable him/her to meet this goal. All scholarship documents should be submitted by to the Office of Scholarships and Financial Aid. If selected, recipient must live on the UH campus a minimum of the first two years of his/her college career. Scholarship recipient must maintain a cumulative 2.75 GPA and remain a full-time student (a minimum of 12 hours per semester) at the University of Houston (main campus). Scholarship award is renewable provided the recipient continues to meet the eligibility requirements. Scholarship award covers up to 8 semesters (or up to 10 semesters if student is enrolled in a 5-year program) including tuition and fees; on-campus room and board or the equivalent; books and University of Houston sponsored student health insurance. For instructions on how to apply, click here. Meal Plan Scholarship Amount: One Meal Plan per term UH Dining Services (UHDS) is pleased to be a member of the University of Houston (UH) community. UHDS will award scholarships to selected UH students that have been admitted to undergraduate programs to support student success and access at UH. As a UH partner, we have committed to providing the Meal Plan Scholarships. Qualifying applicants who meet the eligibility requirements below are invited to apply. Log into Scholarship Universe to apply. The tool is located within your AccessUH account. Rodeo Scholarships The Houston Livestock Show and Rodeo's educational program is a significant part of the Show's mission — benefiting youth, supporting education, and facilitating better agricultural practices through exhibitions and presentation. Because college is only a dream for so many students, the Show has made an extraordinary impact on the lives of countless young men and women in its quest to benefit the youth of Texas and support them through education. Terry Foundation Scholarship Qualifications: For graduates from a Texas high school or home school who demonstrate financial need, a record of leadership in school and community, and strong academic abilities, as evidenced by grades and SAT scores. Back to Top Undergraduate Research Scholarships The University of Houston encourages undergraduates to participate in research with a faculty mentor. In addition to programs offered through various departments and colleges, two programs currently award a stipend for qualified students from all majors to engage in a mentored research experience. Provost's Undergraduate Research Scholarship (PURS) Amount: $1,000 per semester of research Any junior or senior who has either successfully completed at least 12 hours in residence at UH with a cumulative GPA of at least 3.0 OR who has completed fewer than 12 hours in residence at UH but has a 3.5 cumulative GPA on all college level course work taken at UH or elsewhere is eligible to apply. Applicants must have earned at least 60 credits by the beginning of the mentorship period and must enroll and maintain a minimum of 12 hours in the semester of the award unless they are graduating that semester. Students who have participated in the PURS program at UH in a prior semester are ineligible to reapply. Summer Undergraduate Research Fellowship (SURF) Amount: $3,500 for research Qualifications: The Summer Undergraduate Research Fellowship program at the University of Houston (SURF-UH) seeks to provide funding for rising UH sophomores, juniors and seniors to participate in a focused, full-time, 10-week research experience (June 5 - Aug. 9) under the direction of UH faculty. Current freshmen that will be sophomores in Fall 2017 are eligible to apply for the fellowship. However, students graduating in Spring and Summer 2017 are not eligible for this program. No course credit will be offered for participation in this program, and students who have previously participated in the SURF-UH program are ineligible to reapply. Back to Top College-Specific Scholarships Most colleges at the University of Houston offer scholarships specifically for students in those colleges. To be considered for a college-specific scholarship, submit an application through the appropriate college. Find out more: C.T. Bauer College of Business College of Education College of Liberal Arts and Social Sciences College of Natural Sciences and Mathematics College of Optometry College of Pharmacy College of Social Work College of Technology Conrad N. Hilton College of Hotel and Restaurant Management Cullen College of Engineering Gerald D. Hines College of Architecture The Honors College College of Nursing University of Houston Law Center Back to Top State Funded Scholarships The state of Texas provides funding for multiple scholarships available to outstanding students attending Texas colleges and universities. Some of the scholarships will require students to maintain a certain GPA or be part of a specific degree program. Additionally, most of the scholarships require students to be a Texas resident. Fifth Year Accounting Student Scholarship Program Amount: Up to $5,000 The purpose of this program is to increase the number of highly trained and educated professional accountants available to serve the residents of this state; improve the state's business environment and encourage economic development and financial stability; and identify, recognize and support outstanding scholars who plan to pursue careers in accounting. Good Neighbor Scholarship Program Amount: Tuition for one academic year (fall, spring and summer) This scholarship program was established to encourage academically talented students from the countries of the Western (American) hemisphere to pursue higher education in the State of Texas; thus, establishing a beneficial link between the State of Texas and their home countries. Please email us to have a TO DO item added to your myUH account, so you are able to upload the application. Email: sfa@central.uh.edu FY 2023 deadline date: March 15, 2022. For additional information, please click here. Highest Ranking High School Graduate Exemption Amount: Tuition only (two semesters of first regular session) The highest ranking graduate of each accredited high school in Texas is exempt from tuition only at public colleges in Texas for two semesters of the first regular session following graduation from high school. For more information about this exemption or the application process, please contact the University of Houston’s Office of Student Business Services at 713-743-1010, option 6. License Plate Insignia Scholarship The License Plate Insignia Scholarship Program provides financial assistance to needy students attending eligible public or private, non-profit colleges and universities in Texas. The amount of funding available for the program depends upon the number of license plates purchased bearing the insignia of Texas colleges and universities. Mexican Citizens with Financial Need-Border Nations Waiver Amount: Resident tuition rate Deadline: July 1 The purpose of this waiver is to permit a small number of individuals with financial need and are citizens of Mexico, to enroll in any public university in Texas while paying the resident tuition rate. In order to guarantee your application is processed by the first payment deadline of each semester, applications must be submitted by the deadlines provided. However, applications may be submitted after the stated deadline. Incomplete applications will not be considered. Click here to apply. Texas Armed Services Scholarship Program Amount: Up to $7,000 TASSP is a scholarship available to any Texas resident who is interested in pursuing either a commission in one of the Armed Services or will join the Texas Army National Guard, Texas Air National Guard, the Texas State Guard or the U.S. Merchant Marine upon graduation. One of the requirements is to be appointed by the governor, lieutenant governor, state senator or state representative. Click here for more information. Educational Aide Exemption (EAE) Program Amount: Up to $7,000 The EAE program encourages Educational Aides to complete full teacher certification by providing need-based exemptions from the payment of tuition and certain mandatory fees at Texas public institutions of higher education. Please click here to view eligibility requirements and to download the current application. Back to Top Learning Abroad Scholarships Students receiving non-UH scholarships for travel/study/internship/volunteer opportunities abroad are required to visit Learning Abroad prior to their departure in order to be in compliance with UH Safety and Health regulations. LEARNING ABROAD E.W. Cullen Building, Suite 105 4302 University Drive Houston, TX 77204-2039 (713) 743-9167 Email us at: learningabroad@uh.edu Visit us online at: www.uh.edu/learningabroad www.facebook.com/StudyAbroadUH For complete listing of available scholarships, please visit Learning Abroad Scholarships. Back to Top Outside Scholarships If you receive an outside scholarship, please follow the guidelines here to ensure proper handling of your outside scholarship check. All scholarship checks should be mailed to: University of Houston Attn: Scholarships & Financial Aid PO Box 1426 Houston, TX 77251-1426 Any scholarship counts as a financial resource and must be considered when constructing a financial aid offer. Total aid cannot exceed a your cost of attendance (COA). The COA is an estimate of what it costs the typical student to attend the University of Houston. The COA includes tuition and fees, room and board, books and supplies, transportation and personal expenses. University of Houston financial aid awards are subject to change depending on your entire award package, including outside scholarships, and your COA. Back to Top Questions? Staff in the Office of Scholarships and Financial Aid are here to help. Financial Aid Advisors are available via email, by phone (713-743-1010, option #5), and by virtual advising appointments (schedule via the Navigate app) to help you with questions about your financial aid process. If you do not have a Cougarnet account, you can call us to make an appointment. NOTE: State law requires that each student identify any relation to a current University of Houston Board of Regents member. A student who is related to a current member of the governing board of that institution is prohibited from receiving scholarships unless the scholarship is awarded exclusively based on academic merit or is an athletic scholarship. University of Houston Houston, Texas 77204 (713) 743-2255 A–Z Index Academic Calendar Campus Carry Policy Campus Map Career Opportunities Directory Emergency Information Get Help Human Resources Library Mental Health Resources Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Office of the President Parking Report Copyright Infringement Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness Open Records/Public Information Act Texas Veterans Portal Tuition & Fees UH System Virtual Tour ©2022 University of Houston. All rights reserved. Report a problem with this page Texas.gov Texas Homeland Security TRAIL Fraud Reporting Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Linking Notice Privacy Notice Open Records/Public Information Act Institutional Résumé Required Reports Electronic & Information Resources Accessibility Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness University Policies