Skip to main content Skip to main content Prospective Students Current Students Alumni More Faculty/Staff News Media Parents Skip to main content Apply Apply Give Give Follow Us Follow Us Twitter Follow Us Facebook Follow Us Instagram Follow Us LinkedIn Follow Us YouTube Follow Us Social Stream Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. Navigate Search Skip to main content News Home Contact Us SMU Experts Latest News Latest News 2021 2020 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 Live Studio SMU Research ☰ Featured News Latest News Featured News SMU-NAMES-CAMPUS-LEADER-MARIA-DIXON-HALL-AS-CHIEF-DIVERSITY-OFFICER SMU Names Campus Leader Maria Dixon Hall as Chief Diversity Officer Dixon Hall to convene University Diversity Council, supervise ombudsperson August 17, 2020 DALLAS (SMU) – Moving forward to accomplish shared goals developed with Black students, faculty, staff and alumni, SMU President R. Gerald Turner has announced that campus leader Maria Dixon Hall will fill the University’s newly created position of Chief Diversity Officer. “The appointment of Dr. Dixon Hall to this important position is an institutional commitment to meaningful engagement and real progress in the person of a campus leader for whom equity is a passion,” Turner said. “Naming her to this position strengthens SMU’s mission to embrace excellence, integrity, intellectual freedom, open dialogue, diversity and inclusion.” Dixon Hall, currently Senior Advisor to the President for Campus Cultural Intelligence Initiatives and associate professor of corporate communications in the Meadows School of the Arts, will report directly to the president. She will serve as a senior-level resource and a strategic partner who collaborates with SMU faculty, students, administrators and staff – both initiating and reporting the outcome of diversity initiatives, policies and programs. Dixon Hall will work to align the University’s efforts to recruit, retain, support and promote diverse faculty, staff and students, and will convene a University Diversity Council to connect the missions of the diversity officers of each school and administrative unit. Additionally, Dixon Hall will supervise an employee to be hired for the newly created position of University Ombudsperson, who will provide confidential, neutral counsel for faculty, students and staff who encounter conflicts relating to such things as race, ethnicity, gender, sexual orientation or religion. (Complaints of discrimination on a protected basis that may violate the University’s nondiscrimination policies remain the responsibility of the Office of Institutional Access and Equity.) Dixon Hall also will continue to coordinate the delivery of SMU’s Cultural Intelligence and anti-bias training for all members of the SMU community. “I am deeply honored and humbled to be appointed by President Turner to serve our University in this critical role,” said Dixon Hall. “We are at an important crossroads for our country and campus, and the challenges to reweave the fabric of civility, diversity and inclusion that binds us are daunting. However, I believe that as Mustangs, we are more than able to meet this challenge together in authentic and collaborative ways that affirm the sacred worth of every student, staff and faculty member. Every day, I hope you will walk with me on the journey to create a campus where every Mustang knows they are valued.” Amid the national turmoil sparked by the late-May death of George Floyd at the hands of a Minneapolis police officer, Black students, faculty, staff and alumni at SMU used social media and other communications to share current and past incidents of campus racism and institutionalized bias. Turner, Dixon Hall and other campus leaders began a series of virtual town halls with members of SMU’s Black community in June to hear their experiences and concerns and begin working together to develop an action plan for systemic change at SMU. “These important conversations and the themes that are emerging from them are just the beginning,” Turner wrote in a June 12 letter to the SMU community. “But one thing is very clear: Our Black students, staff and faculty need more allies and advocates on campus to create an environment where they feel they belong.” While meetings with members of the campus community continue and the development of the action plan is ongoing, Turner stressed that appointing Dixon Hall as Chief Diversity Officer is a meaningful change that should occur at SMU now. Dixon Hall joined SMU in 2004. She earned a Ph.D. in organizational communication from the University of Missouri-Columbia; a Th.M. in homiletics from Emory University; an M.Div. from Emory University; and a B.S. in marketing from the University of Alabama. Recognized throughout her SMU career by students and peers alike for her passion for teaching and research, Dixon Hall has received the 2005–2006 Willis M. Tate Award for service to the student body; the 2009 Golden Mustang Award for outstanding teaching and research by junior faculty; the 2010 Rotunda Award for outstanding teaching; and the 2011 “M” Award, SMU’s highest award for outstanding service to the University. Dixon Hall began developing SMU’s Cultural Intelligence Initiative in 2016 as a practical, effective alternative to traditional diversity training. CIQ@SMU seeks to give members of the SMU community behavioral skills needed as they work, learn and live respectfully and well with people from different cultural backgrounds. The Cultural Intelligence Initiative began offering its “Hidden Scripts” seminars focused on the language of implicit bias in Spring 2018. ### SMU is the nationally ranked global research university in the dynamic city of Dallas. SMU’s alumni, faculty and nearly 12,000 students in eight degree-granting schools demonstrate an entrepreneurial spirit as they lead change in their professions, communities and the world. Latest News COVID-19 Research Featured News Apply Visit School Cox School of Business Dedman College of Humanities and Sciences Dedman School of Law Lyle School of Engineering Meadows School of the Arts Moody School of Graduate and Advanced Studies Perkins School of Theology Simmons School of Education and Human Development Explore SMU Magazine Academic Calendar Events Calendar Guildhall Continuing and Professional Education Athletics Employment at SMU Campus Reporting a Bias Incident Report Sexual Misconduct Emergency Preparedness Student Life George W. Bush Presidential Center SMU Libraries Meadows Museum Tate Lecture Series Contact Us Maps and Directions Legal Disclosures © Southern Methodist University, PO Box 750100, Dallas, TX 75275 twitter facebook instagram linkedin youtube share