Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Search BC.edu Links Agora Portal Directory A to Z Listing Find pages or people Search Close Close Apply Visit Give Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close BC News > Athletics & Recreation > Sports > Boston College's Pete Frates Center will be dedicated on March 26 Pete Frates Center to be dedicated The 31,000-sq foot indoor baseball and softball facility is named in honor of the late BC alumnus, baseball captain, and ALS awareness champion Lee Pellegrini The dedication of the Pete Frates Center, the 31,000-square foot indoor baseball and softball facility on Brighton Campus named in honor of the late BC baseball captain and 2007 graduate, will take place on March 26 at 11:30 a.m. Frates, who died from amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) at age 34 in December of 2019, was a leader in the search for a cure, most notably through his role as an inspiration for the Ice Bucket Challenge campaign. Boston College retired Pete Frates' jersey in 2016. (John Quakenbos) The center, completed in November of 2020 with the support of the Yawkey Foundation and other donors, features locker rooms, hitting tunnels, strength and conditioning space, a hospitality area, and an indoor turf field. During the March 26 event, University President William P. Leahy, S.J., and the Frates family will deliver remarks. Also in attendance will be William V. Campbell Director of Athletics Patrick Kraft and University Trustee Associate John L. Harrington ’57, M.B.A. ’66, H ’10, P ’82, ’89, ’94, former CEO of the Boston Red Sox and namesake of the Harrington Athletics Village at Brighton Fields, of which the Pete Frates Center is part. Following the dedication, the Boston College softball team will play the University of Virginia at 1 p.m. while the Eagles baseball team hosts Louisville at 2 p.m. At that time, tours of the Frates Center will be offered. Refreshments will be available. Christine Balquist | University Communications | March 2022 Back To Top Back To Top Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College