Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Information For Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff Search BC.edu Links The Boisi Center Menu Main Nav The Boisi Center for Religion & American Public Life Contact Back Back Close About Overview News and Notes Visiting Scholars Past Visiting Scholars Program Application People Web Resources Contact Events Overview Past Events Spring 2022 Race and the Religious Right: White Evangelicals, White Supremacy, and Their Consequences Religious Activism and Political Change; Political Activism and Religious Change Islam in the United States: Issues of Race and Diversity How Secularization Impacts Religion: A Conversation with Nancy Ammerman and José Casanova A Capital Congregation: Proximity, Community, and Ministry for American Statehouse Neighborhoods Theology as Requirement: The Challenges of Teaching Theology in the Modern Academy Fall 2021 Events LGBTQ Advocacy at the Intersection of Faith and Public Policy 'Seventy Times Seven': Abuse, Exclusion, and Forgiving the Church Academics as Public Intellectuals: A Conversation with Professors M. Cathleen Kaveny and Heather Cox Richardson 19th Annual Prophetic Voices Lecture Flannery O’Connor: The Making of an American Master Race, Theology, and Pedagogy: Conversations Between Africans and Americans Teaching First Generation Boston College Students Spring 2021 Events Cultivating Helpful Dynamics US Vatican Relations Pandemic and Religion Three Pieces of Advice to President Biden from Catholics in the Public Square The Development of Muslim Leadership in the U.S. Creating Constructive Conversations Spiritual Audacity: The Abraham Joshua Heschel Story Developing Practical and Integrative Assignments Engaging The Social Dilemma: Social Media and the Polarization of Politics and Pews Fall 2020 Events The Church and Catholic Voters and the 2020 Election The Republican Party and Catholic Voters in the 2020 Election The Democratic Party and Catholic Voters in the 2020 Election Mining the Christian Tradition for Resources to Combat Racism Narrative Empathy, Reconciliation, and Racism Narrative, Restorative Justice, and the Need for Truth in Racial Equity Pandemic, Politics, and Solidarity: A Discussion of Fratelli Tutti Spring 2020 Revolution of the Heart: the Dorothy Day Story Is There a New Anti-Semitism? Evolution and Innovation in Legal Education Race, Class, and Ethnicity in College Admissions Blessed Are the Rich: the American Gospel of Success Fall 2019 How Would You Reform the Catholic Church? The Power of Sports: Media and Spectacle in American Culture Religion and the Divided American Republic: Rawls' Fault? Reviving Democracy During the 2020 Campaign Season by Learning How to Hope What is 'Nature' Today in Science and Theology? Do the Democrats have a Religion Problem? Santuario: Screening and Discussion Spring 2019 Events Seeking Shelter Backs Against the Wall: the Howard Thurman Story What Would President Niebuhr Do? Resetting Christian Theology on Mental Illness and Suicide The Challenge of 'Us' in Ecological Times Religion in the White House What Everyone Needs to Know About Shariah Politics and Evangelical Christians Religion and the Whole Human Experience Fall 2018 Pope Francis: a Man of His Word Utopia on the Small Screen Prayer in a Violent World Faith and Border Ethics Superpower Saints: Rome and America, 1939-1963 Gentrification in an Urban Church What Does It Mean to Be Jewish in the Age of Trump? How the Debate Over Birth Control Changed Catholic Theology Conversations That Matter: Who Belongs at BC? Spring 2018 Events Bible Nation: Hobby Lobby, Scripture, and the Making of America Religion, Spirituality, and Compassionate Healthcare Catholic Afterlives: What Identities and Practices Persist When Catholics Leave the Church? Violence, Memory, and Religion Among Survivors of Clerical Sexual Abuse Truth and Lies in a Polarized Time Catholic Afterlives: What Identities and Practices Persist When Catholics Leave the Church? Fall 2017 Events What's So Political About 'Political' Islam? The Challenge of Charlottesville: Race, Religion and Public Monuments Luther in America Is Civility Dead? The State of Catholic Higher Education Rikers an American Jail U.S. Foreign Policy After ISIS What’S Wrong with the New Genealogy of Religious Freedom? Educating for Modern Democracy Responding to the Global Refugee Crisis at BC and Beyond Spring 2017 Events On Having Civil Conversations An American Conscience: the Reinhold Niebuhr Story The Contemporary Crisis for Christianity in the Middle East Religious Freedom and the Common Good Save the Children: Religion, Politics, and International Adoptions in America What Now? Having Difficult Conversations in Our Community "Silence," a Film by Martin Scorsese Toward a Culture of University Ethics Prophecy Without Contempt The Ethics of Citizenship in the Trump Era Dorothy Day: The World Will Be Saved by Beauty Fall 2016 Events Ending Female Genital Mutilation and Child Marriage in Tanzania Service Learning and the PULSE Program at BC Black Natural Law The New Bostonians: How Immigrants Have Transformed Boston Since the 1960s Economy for the Common Good: a Theory of Change That Works Speak, Stand, Sit or Scream? Slavery and the Making of American Capitalism Public Theology and the Global Common Good Just War Revisited An Ethics for the Coming Storm Religion, Ethics, and the 2016 Presidential Campaign The Christians of Lebanon Factoring Faith into Development USAID Book-a-thon Religion and Conflict Transformation Spring 2016 Events University Ethics Promoting a Closer Alignment Between Philanthropy and the Public Good Making and Breaking: Art, Hospitality and Eucharist What the Islamic Veil Reveals Just War Theory and the Environmental Consequences of War Immigration and Christian Ethics What Is the Responsibility to Protect? Who Gets to Be a Prophet? The Calling of a Public Intellectual Fall 2015 Events A Republic of Prophets Our Common Home: an Ethical Summons on Climate Change Bonhoeffer's Transformative Encounters with the American Prophetic Tradition Nostra Aetate Imagining the Church of the 21st Century The Outlook for Religious Pluralism in Syria Gun Rights and the Threat to Freedom and Democracy Boston Book Festival 2015 The Bible in Early America Effective Action on Environment, Hunger and Human Rights Teaching about Religion in Public Schools My Faith Story within the Story of Liberation Theology Spring 2015 Events Simone's Svengalis Two Faces of Political Islam Being a Priest in the Public Square Equal Rights for All Religion, Politics and Nationalism in Contemporary Turkey Race, Religion, and Social Change: a Campus Conversation Religious Pluralism in the Middle East Why Libertarianism Isn't Liberal Religion and the Roots of Climate Change Denial Religion and Global Affairs How Dante Can Save your Life Fall 2014 Events The Moral Origins of the Great Recession Prophetic Rhetoric in the Public Square Women and Interreligious Dialogue Writing about Religion in a Polarized Age The Public Life of Love "At Home in Exile" Book Release Event Catholic Charities: Challenges and Response Is There a Future for Catholic Health and Social Services? At Home in Exile: Why Diaspora Is Good for the Jews Spring 2014 Events Nonviolent Campaigning for Nuclear Disarmament Religious Diversity and Military Service Democracy Beyond Elections Pope Francis and the Future of the Global Church South Africa After Mandela #Religion @OMG Faith Db8 in 21st Century The Prophetic Minority Terrorism and the Boston Marathon Setting the Agenda for Global Dialogue Business, Ethics and American Healthcare Reform Fall 2013 Events The Blessings of Exile Political Obligation in the World Society Beyond Ignorance, Hostility, and Fear Peacebuilding and Reconciliation What Is Power? From Just War to Nonviolence Religious Diversity and the Common Good "Mandela: Long Walk to Freedom" Spring 2013 Events Youth and Diplomacy The Future of Catholic Periodicals Poverty and American National Priorities The Papacy After Benedict XVI Youth Civic Engagement What Is Liberation Theology? Prophetic Action and Imagination Cosmopolitanism in Constitutional Law Religion, State and Education Fall 2012 Events Diaspora: an Introduction Standards for Effective Elementary and Secondary Catholic Schools Nuns in American Public Life Latinos and the 2012 Election Religion and the Liberal Aims of Higher Education American Dreams: Jews and Broadway Update on the 'War on Terror': Facts and Fears Individuals, Institutions, and Religious Freedom Spring 2012 Events For God and Country: Religion and the U.S. Military Islam, Sharia, and Democratic Transformation in the Arab World Power, History and Meaning Are Mormons the New Catholics and Jews? Religious Exclusivism and Pluralism as a Political Project Winning the Child's Will Islam and Democracy: a Closer Look at the Turkish Model Citizenship in the Global City Religion and the 2012 Presidential Primaries The Writer and the Public Islamic Civilization & Societies Fall 2011 Events Interrogation Policy after Osama bin Laden Author Meets Critics: Political Evil by Alan Wolfe The Life and Work of Christian Legal Theorist William Stuntz Iran and the Arab Spring Pelagius and Augustine Faculty Seminar: on Political Messianism Graduate Student Seminar: Art, Politics, Morality Religion in America: a Political History Social Ethics and Social Practice in Puritan New England Writers Save How God Commands Religious Liberty Spring 2011 Events The BC Dilemma: the Business Life and the Kingdom of Heaven The Limits of International Human Rights Law in the U.S. Constitution Climate Change and Christian Ethics The Legal and Religious Status of Women in Nigerian Society Toleration and Freedom: the American Experience in Context New Imaging Technologies at the End of Life Perfect Storm: How the Imminent Crisis in Higher Education Can Strengthen Liberal Education The Risk of Civil Society Wanting It All: Women and the State of Feminism in America Last Best Hope: International Lives of the American Civil War Lingua Sacra: Negotiating God-Talk in America Fall 2010 Events Humanitarian Intervention and the "Responsibility to Protect" The Rising Power of the American Dead Presidential Roulette Author Meets Critics: "The Religious Test" The University in the 21st Century: Thinking About Ethics, Persons, and Discourse The Hebrew Republic: Jewish Sources and the Transformation of European Political Thought Spring 2010 Events Benedict XVI and the U.S. Bishops Causes of the Financial Crisis and the Future of the Financial Services Industry Rousseau's Paradoxical Legacy Shifts and Continuities in the Obama Era and Beyond Philanthropy as Spiritual Exercise: Soul, Relationships and Community Exporting the First Freedom Natural Law, God, and Human Dignity What Has HIV/AIDS Led Us to Understand About Global Ethical Challenges? A Matter of Conscience: Religious Exemptions and the Healthcare Debate Fall 2009 Events Religious and Secular Beliefs in Turkey and Liberal Democracy The Church, the Economy, and Social Justice The Continuities and Disparities Between Obama and Kennedy Israel and Palestine: the State of the Question Evangelicals and the Catholic Mind: From Repulsion to Attraction Academic and Athletic Excellence on the Heights Torture: Is It Always Wrong? Secularization and Contemporary Religious Renewal in Europe Religion, History, and Education: Facing History and Ourselves Spring 2009 Events Ways of Knowing: Field Science in the 21st Century The Faiths of a Catholic University Realism, Ethics and U.S. Foreign Policy Women Living with HIV/AIDS in the US Intuition, Emotion and Visualization Redeeming Freedom Building: Houses, Community, Resumes? Scientific Knowledge and Faith Human Evolution and Christian Ethics Gettysburg in Rehab The Temple of Solomon and the Dome of the Rock Author Meets Critics: the Future of Liberalism Fall 2008 Events The Roosevelt Legacy Invisibility Syndrome of African Americans in Educational Institutions Catholics and the 2008 Elections The Role of the Public Intellectual Georges Rouault's Epistemological Modesty Promised Land: Exodus and America Madison's Hand 2008 Election Roundtable Re-integrating Spirituality in the Catholic University American Secularism for American Muslims Giving the Dead Their Living Voices One Nation Under God? Spring 2008 Events Muslims in the United States The Unbearable Lightness of Christian Legal Scholarship Assessing the 2008 "Super Primaries" Mormons in American Politics Just Schools What Do We Owe the Iraqis? New Advances in Stem Cell Research Immigration and the Scandinavian Welfare State "Yes, God Is Real" Gay Marriage in Theology, Law and Politics Fall 2007 Events Civil Religion, Mourning and Memorials at Virginia Tech Organizational Meeting for Student Advisory Panel Womanist Ethics and the Cultural Production of Evil Author Meets Critics: "A Theology of Public Life" Deportation Nation: Outsiders in American History Gambling and the American Moral Landscape Failing America's Faithful Student Debate on Gambling Spring 2007 Events Role of Catholic Universities in American Public Life Headscarves and Holy Days Theocons in American Public Life The Danger of Prophecy Blasphemy, Free Speech and Journalistic Ethics Islam in Europe and the US Red and Blue Nation? The Danish Mohammed Cartoons and Their Fallout Current Developments in Middle Eastern Politics and Religion Fall 2006 Events Judging Intelligent Design Integrating Islam in France Religious Freedom and the Pledge of Allegiance Overcoming Religious Illiteracy Through Public Education Religion and the 2006 Mid-Term Elections Ethical Responsibilities Toward Forced Migrants as a Framework for Advocacy Spring 2006 Events The Courtier and the Heretic Faith and Poverty Combating 'Evildoers' in the Developing World The Faith of Feminists Studying Children's Religion Pope Benedict After One Year Truth and Fiction in the Da Vinci Code Fall 2005 Events American Religion in the European Mind The Silent Body of Audrey Santo God's Politics After Katrina: Faith and Hope in Public Life Jews of Boston: Bridging Wisdom, Community, and Culture, 1995-2004 Polarization in America Time to Talk About 'Private' Belief and 'Public' Scholarship Spring 2005 Events Local Islam Gone Global Ecclesial Ethics: What Can We Learn From the Early Church? Good and Faithful Service Dead Man Walking: the Journey Continued Religion and Aging: Findings From a Sixty Year Longitudinal Study American Greatness: How the U.S. Lost, and Can Regain, Its Sense of Purpose American Protestants and the Doctrine of Original Sin, 1945-1965 The Conclave and the New Pope The Press and Faith Based Politics Religious Diversity and the Common Good Fall 2004 Events Handing on a Faith: Challenges Opportunities of Our Time Religion, Foreign Policy and the Media in a Post 9-11 Context The Women Changing the Face of Christianity Spring 2004 Events Voluntary and Diverse: American Religion and American Society Reinventing the Melting Pot American Jesus: How the Son of God Became an American Icon French Perceptions of Religion in America: From Voltaire to RéGis Debray Faith in Boston: How Congregations Confront the Changing Urban Structure The Role of Soft Religions in Democratization Being the Hands of God: the Jewish Call to Social Justice New Challenges in End-of-Life Care Virtuous Sexual Ethics Economic Spirituality: Integrating Who You Are with What You Buy Reflections on the Upcoming 2004 Presidential Election A Stone of Hope: Prophetic Religion & Death of Jim Crow Fall 2003 Events Bishops and Bosses: Changing Trends in Church-State Relations in Boston All That's Holy: a Young Man, an Old Car and the Search for God in America Unlikely Allies: Church and Society in Racial Passing Studying Hinduism as an Interdisciplinary Practice The Role of Religion and Faith-based Initiatives in Urban Communities The Future of American Religion: a Conversation Where Does Character Formation Happen in the University Today? Spring 2003 Events Unholy War in Islam Gathering Power: Future of Progressive Politics in USA How Buddhist Doctrine of Skillful Means Supports Transnational Buddhist Expansion and Adaptation The Pluralism Project: Research and Opportunities Evangelical Protestants in the Public Square The Eliot School Rebellion, Boston, 1859 Religion and Education Religion and Modernization The Role of Religion and Faith in Political Life Fall 2002 Events Presenting Islam Religion in Contemporary America: Church, State, and Society Restoration of a Jeffersonian Republic American Catholicism The Holocaust and the Catholic Church's Current Search for Forgiveness Fire and Roses: the Burning of the Charlestown Convent, 1834 Spring 2002 Events Reflections on Political Islam After September 11 Economists Versus Human Beings? Genetics, Religion, and Social Ethics Prospects for Peace in the Middle East Judaism and Civic Participation in American Life Religion in a Deliberative Society The Struggle for the Soul of Islam The Abrahamic Attitudes Towards Racism and Slavery Faith, Reason and Democracy in Islam What Is the Prophetic Role of the Catholic Church in American Society Today? The New Physics of Philanthropy Beyond the Synagogue Walls Melville, Our Contemporary Lived Religion Workshop Fall 2001 Events The Common Good The Legacy of Theocracy: Discord in the Public Realm A Story of Shalom: the Calling of Christians and Jews by a Covenanting God Redefining the Boundaries of Belonging The Logic of Fundamentalism: Comparing Movements After September 11 Order, War and Terrorism: Drawing Moral Lines Faith Communities Today War, Peace and a Crisis in the Life of God Catholic-Jewish Dialogue: Death and Dying, Mortality and Immortality Research Colloquium Series Spring 2001 Events Religious Diversity and the Common Good Linking Community Organizing and School Reform Economics and Ethics Should We Have Faith in the Churches? Family, Religion and Politics: Understanding Gender Differences in Participation Moral and Normative Aspects of School Choice Conference Roundtable Discussion on Faith-Based Initiatives Religious Commitment and Secular Reason The Lustre of Our Country Crossing the Gods: World Religions and Worldly Politics Religion, Class and Politics in the United States Alan Wolfe: Book Signing Party From Ghetto to Mainstream: Catholics and Evangelicals in the "Knowledge Professions" Fall 2000 Events Catholic Identity: Balancing Reason, Faith and Power Ethics and Medicine Dialogue: Belief and Non-Belief: the Challenge of Medical Knowledge Religion and the 2000 Election Fighting Poverty with Virtue Publications Overview Newsletters Subscribe Papers Books Courses & Seminars Overview Symposia on Religion and Politics Minor Podcast Contact Close Directory A to Z Listing Search BC.edu Find pages or people Search Close Close Apply Visit Give Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close Minor Home Minor The Religion and Public Life minor will offer students a way to explore and connect diverse conversations about the role of religion in public life. Bringing together a wide array of courses to choose from, the Religion and Public Life minor will have an interdisciplinary emphasis and be composed of six courses, one introductory course and five electives. Expectations Courses Interested in the Minor Summer 2021 Internship Expectations of undergraduates who minor in Religion and Public Life The aims of the Religion and Public Life minor are to form undergraduate students who are able to: Understand and narrate the history of religious and cultural interactions across the U.S. historical landscape. Speak knowledgeably about what comprises a religiously diverse society-- its constructions, conflicts, and common goods—both within the American tradition and in international contexts. Understand varying roles of an engaged citizenry and the political consequences of religious associations. Ask difficult questions that lead to analyses of the moral consequences of public policies. Articulate what the 'Common Good' might look like in a pluralistic society. Courses The introductory course will be a focused and constructive seminar conversation about the various intersections between religion and public life, focusing on the American context. Listed as a theology course (THEO 3253), the introductory seminar, "Religion and American Public Life," will be taught by the director of the minor. All students entering the minor will take this introductory course first. During the course, students will meet with the director to determine which elective courses are the best fit for their interests and, if needed, will be connected with another faculty member who will assist in recommending electives. These electives will form a "cluster" that narrows the focus of the minor to consider the individual student's interests in religion and public life, either within or expanding beyond the American context. This "cluster" consists of five electives, including at least one "advanced elective." An advanced elective is a writing intensive course that should be taken near the end of the student's fulfillment of minor requirements. The elective courses must be chosen from at least two departments outside of theology. Example of Elective Clusters Religion and the Arts Religion, Culture, and Media Religion and Political Philosophy Religion and the Social Sciences Religion and American Politics Religion and International Politics When the student has completed all six minor courses, the student will be expected to write a short paper (no more than 1000 words) reflecting on their studies in the minor, the relationship between courses in their "cluster" and their major, and how what they have learned may impact their future beyond Boston College. Students who have completed the minor will be expected to give a brief presentation of this reflective paper at a spring reception for affiliated faculty, staff, and fellow students involved in the Religion and Public Life minor. Interested in the Minor Students who are interested in the Boisi Center Minor in Religion and Public Life should contact the director, Fr. Mark Massa, by email. His email address is mark.massa@bc.edu. Religion and Public Life Minor Summer 2021 Internship Practicum The Religion and Public Life minor program was launched in the fall of 2019 as an interdisciplinary program offering students a way to explore and connect diverse conversations about the role of religion in public life. Each academic year, the program selects approximately five students for participation. Fr. Mark Massa, director of the minor program and the Boisi Center for Religion and American Public Life, requests recommendations for potential minors from fellow faculty members and current minors. The minor includes one required introductory seminar THEO 3253 entitled “Religion and American Public Life” and five electives which cluster around the individual student’s interest. Last summer, the minor program was complemented by a summer practicum rooted in Jesuit beliefs, practices, and traditions of social justice. The practicum ran for 11 weeks between June and mid-August and included two remote reading and discussion segments and one four-week field work experience in labor and political organizing in the Boston area. The students’ labor organizing practicum was supported by the New England’s Teamsters Local 25. The political organizing experience was hosted by Boston Mayor Michelle Wu’s election campaign. Three rising juniors – Nicholas Letts, Sean O’Neil, and Connor Thomson - volunteered to participate according to Massa. Massa conceived of the practicum as a way for students to combine close study of key texts from the Catholic social justice tradition with applied, on-the-ground experience in the field of organizing. To further this effort, he worked with Harry Grill, a former partner with the global law firm of K&L Gates and longtime political and labor organizer. Most recently Grill served as the National Political Campaigns Director for UNITE HERE, the labor union that represents workers across the United States and Canada in industries ranging from food service and textiles to hotels and airports. The syllabus that Grill created for the practicum opened with a reading and discussion of Rerum Novarum, Pope Leo XIII’s encyclical on capital and labor. Building on this foundation, additional readings included Thomas A. Shannon’s Commentary on Rerum Novarum (The Condition of Labor), Samuel Huntington’s The Crisis of Democracy, and B. Holly Schadler’s The Connection: Strategies for Creating and Operating 501(c)(3)s, 501(c)(4)s and Political Organizations. The remote sessions consisted of discussing the readings, current media, and gleanings from Rerum Novarum. The focus was the relationship to the profound crisis America is facing in a bitterly partisan and alarming moment such as income and social inequality, a once-in-a-century global health pandemic, climate change, technology and automation rapidly changing the character of work and the livelihood of workers, and the hostility towards immigrants and various racial, ethnic, and religious groups. Each student also wrote a mission statement on how a non-profit charitable organization would advocate on the principles of Rerum Novarum at this moment in our country’s history and each developed an independent research project. The labor organizer practicum was conducted under the direction of James Donovan, political and research director of Teamsters Local 25. It consisted of weekly meetings with the students and their participation in an organizing drive of unorganized workers in the healthcare industry in Eastern Massachusetts. The students went out with Teamster organizers in the field and conducted house visits with workers whose conditions were similar to those that serve as the spiritual calling of Leo XIII. “The students were taken out of their ‘comfort zone’ and learned first-hand from the workers, the harsh conditions, lack of quality health care, and sub-standard wages they and their families are experiencing day to day as they fight for dignity and respect,” said James Donovan. “The Teamster’s organizers and staff truly enjoyed working with the students and look forward to working again with the Boisi Center and providing another rewarding learning experience for other Boston College students.” The political field practicum with Mayor Michelle Wu’s campaign consisted of canvassing several different demographic Boston neighborhoods. The goal was for the students to learn how to engage in practical conversations with a diversity of Boston residents and learn first-hand what were the critical issues of concern as opposed to relying on solely secondary media sources. Grill’s reflections on the program are as follows: “Boston College is recognized for outstanding academics. The goal of the practicum was to couple theory with practice by providing a solid academic foundation with challenging practical experiences that will serve the students well as they move forward in life.” The achievement of this goal is reflected in the students’ reactions. According to BC student Nicholas Letts, the practicum afforded a “great real-world experience that linked work to faith issues.” Sean O’Neil concurred, stating that the program “has long outlived the three months I spent actively working in it. It was a vital part of my securing a job this past semester and has provided a wealth of resources and mentors to draw from for the rest of my college experience as I pivot to consider what life after BC will look like.” Connor Thomson, majoring in Political Science, had this to say: “The program allowed me to get a real, hands on experience in how politics actually gets done in America. I was able to experience labor organizing, political canvassing, and faith-based action and see how change is truly produced. It was an amazing way to see how my studies in political science connect to the real world.” Internship funding for the practicum was generously provided by BC’s Clough Center for the Study of Constitutional Democracy which aims to reinvigorate and reimagine the study of constitutional democracy in the 21st century. The Boisi Center for Religion and American Public Life under Massa is working to institutionalize and convene future practica through Boston College’s PULSE program. Reflecting on the program, Massa observed that “this first experiment between students and the Teamsters -- so seamlessly set up by Harry Grill -- was a remarkable success. It will certainly serve as a model for future ventures in the program." Back To Top Back To Top The Boisi Center for Religion and American Public Life 24 Quincy Road Chestnut Hill, MA 02467 617-552-1860 | boisi.center@bc.edu About Events Publications Courses & Seminars Minor Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube LinkedIn Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College