Skip to main content Skip to primary site menu Google Tag Manager Search form Search Explore Brown University Search Global Navigation Learn More About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life Find A to Z Index People Directory Information for Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Top Destinations Global Brown Watson Institute Graduate School Alpert Medical School School of Public Health School of Engineering John Nicholas Brown Center for Public Humanities and Cultural Heritage Home About Graduate Program Initiatives People Events Conferences Exhibitions Lectures J. Carter Brown Architecture Lectures Performances Workshops Blog Site Navigation Home About Land Acknowledgment Programs History Nightingale-Brown House Richard Neutra's "Windshield" House Model Nightingale-Brown House Digital Tour Black Labor at Nightingale-Brown House Brochure: Slave Labor and the Making of the Nightingale-Brown House Doing Public Humanities Diversity and Inclusion Action Plan DIAP Summary Update 2019-2020 Year in Review Graduate Program M.A. Program Requirements Courses Practicums Past practicums Master's Theses Fellowships and Funding Tuition Scholarship & Other Funding Public History of Slavery Fellowship Native American & Indigenous Studies Fellowship Curatorial Fellowships City Year (Americorps) Agreement Graduate Certificate 5th-year M.A. Contacts Public Humanities Students Handbook Graduate School Handbook Forms and Resources Initiatives Conferences Exhibitions Gallery Publications Partnerships Digital Projects Suffrage in Rhode Island: A Lippitt Family Perspective Nightingale-Brown House Digital Tour Public Work: A Public Humanities Podcast Rhode Tour Public Humanities Blog Day of Public Humanities Brown FACADES App Year of the City: The Providence Project People Faculty & Staff Faculty Advisory Board Public Humanities Fellows Current Students Alumni Alumni Directory Alumni Interviews Events Conferences Exhibitions Lectures J. Carter Brown Architecture Lectures Performances Workshops Blog Performances Past Performances Oct 3 6:00pm - 8:00pm Film Screening: Windshield: A Vanished Vision (2016) Nightingale-Brown House Screening of Elissa Brown’s Windshield: A Vanished Vision (2016), a documentary about the modernist home that her grandparents, John Nicholas Brown and Anne Brown, commissioned Richard Neutra to design for them on Fishers Island in 1936. The avant-garde home was Neutra’s most significant residential commission outside of Los Angeles and is a striking counterpoint to the Nightingale-Brown House. Come and learn more about the family that endowed the John Nicholas Brown Center for Public Humanities and Cultural Heritage and their surprising connection with modernist art and architecture. Light refreshments will be provided. Film Screening: Windshield: A Vanished Vision (2016) Arts, Performance, History, Cultural Studies, Languages, Humanities, JNBC Lectures, JNBC Performances Mar 14 8:00pm - 9:00pm “I Just Came Here to Find a Husband… and Start a Got Damn Revolution” Protest Projections and Performances Nightingale-Brown House Brown University alumna (Class of ’98) and BAI Professor of the Practice Ayana Evans will present a series of protest projections on Nightingale-Brown House at 357 Benefit St, Providence, RI. The projections address mass incarceration, education inequalities, and love. This event will feature a live performance by the campus acapella group Harmonic Motion and poet Adjua Greaves, who is currently earning an MFA in Poetry from the Literary Arts Program at Brown. “I Just Came Here to Find a Husband… and Start a Got Damn Revolution” Protest Projections and Performances JNBC Performances Apr 27 5:30pm - 7:00pm QTPOC Liberation Lawn Party! Nightingale-Brown House The Haus of Glitter Dance Company has spent the last 2 years living + healing + creating in the former home of Esek Hopkins, commander of the slavery ship “Sally”, hired by the Brown brothers of Brown University. Join The Haus of Glitter for a Artist Talk + Lawn Party + Protest Demonstration that celebrates Queer Feminist BIPOC led historic intervention and our beloved intersectional cultures of dance, music and creative community. Come strut the runway with us! Music by DJ Sita (Haus of Glitter) + Food and Beverages provided! This event is free and open to the public, but registration is required. QTPOC Liberation Lawn Party! JNBC Performances Apr 28 6:30pm - 8:30pm Opening Reception for “Les Vues d’Amérique du Nord: Artists Respond” Nightingale-Brown House Please join us for a celebration of Jazzmen Lee-Johnson’s Not Never More (2022), a site-specific art installation on the ground floor of the Center for Public Humanities. Read more about the exhibition here. This event is free and open to the public, but registration is required. Opening Reception for “Les Vues d’Amérique du Nord: Artists Respond” JNBC Conferences, JNBC Exhibitions, JNBC Performances Upcoming Performances Check back soon for new events. Events Conferences Exhibitions Lectures J. Carter Brown Architecture Lectures Performances Workshops John Nicholas Brown Center for Public Humanities and Cultural Heritage John Nicholas Brown Center for Public Humanities and Cultural Heritage Brown University Box 1880 Nightingale Brown House 357 Benefit Street Providence, RI 02912 Phone: 401-863-1177 Fax: 401-863-7777 Email [email protected] Twitter Twitter Facebook Facebook Instagram Instagram Brown University Giving to Brown Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA 401-863-1000 Contact Us Maps Directions Career Opportunities Campus Safety Accessibility All Social Media © 2022 Brown University | Back to top