Skip Navigation California State University, Fullerton Site Menu Division of Student Affairs Center for Scholars Main Navigation Our Programs Resources Our Team The Center for Scholars The Center for Scholars serves a remarkable group of resilient and ambitious students that come from diverse backgrounds. From their first day on campus, they are encouraged to get involved and become integral and well-rounded leaders in the Titan community. Our Titans achieve their academic goals and develop the confidence and skills to become effective leaders, cohesive team members and inspiring role models. We seek to instill a sense of citizenship and commitment in our students, inspiring them to reach out to those around them through service and mentorship. Beyond graduation, they grow to become leaders in their communities and truly inspire others in the same ways that they have been inspired. Learn more about the programs below by clicking here. Follow us on Instagram and Youtube Our Scholar Applications are open for incoming students who will be new to CSUF in Fall 2022. The applications are listed under the Scholarship button in your CSUF Portal and are part of the Honors and Scholars Application. This application allows you to apply for multiple programs via one application. Programs include: Center for Scholars Programs Abrego Future Scholars Guardian Scholars President's Scholars Business Honors Program University Honors Program Download a flyer Abrego Future Scholars Program A scholarship and support program for first-generation college students who are come from historically underrepresented backgrounds. Guardian Scholars Program Helping foster youth reach their full academic and personal potential in college. To do this we provide support services and connections to resources. My Future Pathways Scholars Program A partnership providing scholarships and support services for selected transfer students from Orange Coast College in Costa Mesa. Nicholas Academic Scholars Program A partnership providing support services for graduates of the Nicholas Academic Centers based in Santa Ana who attend CSUF. President's Scholars Program A merit-based student support program, setting high standards for students who expect to be challenged and contribute to their communities. Sun Scholars Program A partnership providing support services for graduates of the Sun Scholars programs based in Orange County who attend CSUF. Scholar Selection Our Scholarship applications are part of the joint Honors and Scholars Application which is open now for Fall 2022. Students will apply using their CSUF portal login information. Applications are open for: Abrego Future Scholars Guardian Scholars (Scholarship Funded) President's Scholars Deadline: Extended to March 2, 2022 Apply Online Guardian Scholars Application Support services & academic resources for current and former foster youth at Cal State Fullerton. Applicants will be asked to provide a copy of their foster youth verification. Basic eligibility criteria: Current or former foster youth who were in care on or after their 13th birthday Under the age of 26 Current or prospective CSUF student Application Open Year Round Apply Online This site is maintained by Center for Scholars. Last Published 4/12/22 To report problems or comments with this site, please contact scholars@fullerton.edu. © California State University, Fullerton. All Rights Reserved. Web Accessibility CSUF is committed to ensuring equal accessibility to our users. Let us know about any accessibility problems you encounter using this website. We'll do our best to improve things and get you the information you need. Resources: Download Adobe Acrobat Reader Adobe Reader Download Word viewer, or download Excel viewer, or download PowerPoint viewer Microsoft Viewers Report An ATI Issue Accessible @ CSUF Version_4.8.10 This page uses AJAX data import which rely on javascript. You do not have javascript enabled, some functions will be disabled. This page uses javascript to help render elements, if you have problems please enable javascript.