Skip to main site navigation Skip to main content Open the search panel Open the main menu Search Go Close the search panel Information for… Incoming J.D. Current Students Faculty Staff Media Employers News Events Alumni Giving About Library Login Open the Search panel Admissions Admissions Why Columbia J.D. Admissions Graduate Admissions Academics Academics J.D. Program and Curriculum LL.M. Program and Curriculum Executive LL.M. Program and Curriculum J.S.D. Program and Curriculum Dual and Joint Degrees International Programs Public Interest and Public Service Experiential Learning Courses Registration Services Academic Calendar Executive Education Areas of Study Areas of Study Constitutional Law, Regulation, and Public Policy Corporate, Business, and Transactional Law Criminal Justice Data Analytics Environment and Energy Family, Gender, and Sexuality Intellectual Property and Technology International and Comparative Law Law of the Workplace Leadership Legal History Litigation and Dispute Resolution National Security and Privacy Social Justice and Human Rights Faculty & Scholarship Faculty & Scholarship Faculty Directory Research Centers and Programs Scholarship Archive Workshops, Lectures, and Colloquia Careers Careers Private Sector Careers Public Interest and Public Service Careers Academic Careers Judicial Clerkships Employment Statistics Employment Policies Community Life Community Life Visit Campus Dean’s Welcome Your Campus, Your City Student Life Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Strategic Initiatives Kerrel Murray Associate Professor of Law Full-time Faculty Education J.D., Stanford Law School B.A., University of Georgia Areas of Study Constitutional Law, Regulation, and Public Policy Criminal Justice Social Justice and Human Rights Areas of Specialty Constitutional Law Law and Democracy Race and the Law Kerrel Murray teaches and writes about constitutional law, election law, and race and the law, among other topics. His scholarship interrogates what democracy demands of our legal rules and institutions as well as the role of law in mediating conflict and disagreement. Before joining Columbia Law School in 2021, he completed a two-year fellowship as a post-doc research associate at the University of North Carolina School of Law. Prior to that, Murray served as a fellow at the NAACP Legal Defense and Educational Fund, where he co-authored amicus briefs in the U.S. Supreme Court and multiple state supreme courts. He was also an associate in Covington & Burling’s Washington, D.C., office, where he focused on complex civil litigation. He clerked for Judge Ketanji Brown Jackson on the U.S. District Court for the District of Columbia and for Judge Timothy M. Tymkovich on the U.S. Court of Appeals for the 10th Circuit. Publications “Discriminatory Taint," 135 HARV. L. REV. 1190 (2022) “Populist Prosecutorial Nullification,” 96 N.Y.U. L. REV. 173 (2021) “Good Will Hunting: How the Supreme Court’s Hunter Doctrine Can Still Shield Minorities from Political-Process Discrimination,” Note, 66 STAN. L. REV. 443 (2014) Honors and Awards Postdoctoral Award for Research Excellence, University of North Carolina School of Law 2020 Burton Distinguished Legal Writing Award Recipient Runner-up 2015 American Constitution Society’s Constance Baker Motley National Writing Competition 2013 Related News and Stories Read All Stories More in The Press Faculty News Kerrel Murray: Examining How Law Orders Democracy A constitutional law scholar, Murray writes about race and antidiscrimination law and election law. He joins the Columbia Law School faculty as an associate professor of law. In The Press Ketanji Brown Jackson Hires Clerks for First Supreme Court Term Kerrel Murray | Bloomberg Law Faculty News New Spring 2022 Courses Address Pressing Concerns Faculty News Five Questions for Professor Kerrel Murray on U.S. Supreme Court Nominee Judge Ketanji Brown Jackson Admissions Why Columbia Visit 435 West 116th Street New York, NY 10027 212-854-2640 Contact Us Social Media (Administrative Title) Twitter LinkedIn Facebook Instagram Admissions Academics Areas of Study Faculty & Scholarship Careers Community Life Information for… Incoming J.D. Current Students Faculty Staff Media Employers Login News Events Alumni Giving About Library Consumer Information (ABA Required Disclosures) Donate © Copyright 2022 The Trustees of Columbia University in the City of New York.