COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW College of Applied Studies Section Menu College of Applied Studies About Us Dean's Office Staff Departments Centers and Laboratories Faculty and Staff Directory CAS Ambassadors Events Alumni Degree Programs Advising Scholarships Student Recognition Faculty and Staff Technology Contact Us CAS Insider Stop Video Find out more about joining Shocker Nation.Request info When it comes to producing qualified educators, athletic trainers, exercise scientists and sport management professionals—nobody offers more than Wichita State's College of Applied Studies. We combine nationally accredited programs, exclusive scholarships and unmatched applied learning opportunities to give our students everything they need to build bright futures. Apply now Our Innovative Approach Career experience built into every program WSU's College of Applied Studies students combine their classroom learning with real-world experience in a wide range of settings—from Wichita Public Schools and Major League Baseball to Walt Disney World—equipping them with a professional resume and important contacts in their chosen fields. More about applied learning at WSU Make a difference in people's lives Your dream career in education, counseling, athletic training, exercise science or sport management starts with one of our fully accredited, quality degree programs. See all College of Applied Studies degrees Advising Academic Advising at Wichita State University is a personalized way to explore options and make good decisions that help you attain your educational and career goals. Scholarships and Financial Aid Each year, the College of Applied Studies gives out thousands of dollars in scholarships, including the Klose Scholarship, which awards up to $33,000 for math or science education majors. Our Departments The College of Applied Studies features four departments with degree offerings that touch all aspects of Pre K-12 education, educational administration, sport management, athletic training and exercise science. ISLE The Intervention Services and Leadership in Education (ISLE) Department offers graduate degrees and certificates for those seeking to advance their careers in the field of education. School of Education The School of Education at Wichita State University offers undergraduate and graduate programs for those pursuing or continuing their professional development in teaching and instructional design. Human Performance Studies The Department of Human Performance Studies at Wichita State University prepares students for careers in athletic training, exercise science and physical education. Sport Management Wichita State University's Sport Management program prepares undergraduate and graduate students for careers in the management of sport entertainment, sport participation and sporting goods organizations. Start your journey now. Apply now Request info Visit campus Our Beautiful Home The College of Applied Studies is housed in the beautiful Corbin Education Center, designed by legendary architect Frank Lloyd Wright. We strive to exemplify Wright's vision by applying new technologies, providing active and enriching environments, and fostering educational engagement in everything we do. Learn more about the building College of Applied Studies links and resources Meet our Faculty and Staff Advising Scholarships Centers Esports The Fuse Men of Color - Educators of Tomorrow CAS in the News See all CAS News Stories WSU Esports varsity team marks a milestone for the program Dr. Daniel Bergman Named Jean Spalding Faculty Fellow Congratulations to CAS Award Winners CAS on Social Media 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©