Skip to main content Skip to main navigation Student Life Menu About A Message from the Vice President Office of the Vice President Leadership Kevin P. Jackson, Ph.D. Sharra Hynes Jim Marsh Elizabeth D. Palacios Burt Burleson Office of the VP Staff Zach Mills Sandra Northern Janet Green Tom Barnard Strategic Plan 2020-21 Student Life Annual Report Student Life Spotlight Student Engagement Student Activities Campus Living (Housing) New Student Programs Student Conduct Administration Ombuds to Students Student Foundation Fraternity and Sorority Life Spiritual Life Worship Baptist Student Ministries Missions Pastoral Care Community & Culture Multicultural Affairs Diversity at Baylor Student Health & Wellness Campus Recreation Counseling Services Health Services Wellness Care Team 24/7 Care (Tele-Health) Resources Follow Us on Social Media Student Life YouTube What's New BU What's New BU Submission What's New BU Archive WNBU Submission Guidelines Off Campus Housing HESA Program Ombuds to Students Statement on Hazing GameDay for Students We're Hiring Make a Gift Baylor>Student Life>About>Office of the Vice President Office of the Vice President The Office of the Vice President for Student Life The mission of the office of the vice president for Student Life is to provide vision and leadership of a team dedicated to excellence in reflecting the character and commitment of the vice president, facilitate information sharing and support through service to students and departments, and act as an advocate for students, staff, faculty, and the president. Staff members in this office provide the following mission-centric functions: Overall leadership for the division Collaboration with other departments and units of the University Advocacy for student issues and concerns Financial resources and special funding for special events Counsel and direction Ombudsman services Assessment records for the division Graduate preparation program information What's New BU Mass and emergency communication Information about off-campus housing Special recognition programs Advising student organizations and class officers Human resource coordination 1st floor, McLane Student Life Center (The SLC) One Bear Place #97016 Baylor University Waco, TX 76798-7016 254-710-1314 (office) 254-710-1766 (fax) Student Life will be a transformative presence in all our students’ lives, equipping them to make a positive impact on society. About A Message from the Vice President Office of the Vice President Leadership Kevin P. Jackson, Ph.D. Sharra Hynes Jim Marsh Elizabeth D. Palacios Burt Burleson Office of the VP Staff Zach Mills Sandra Northern Janet Green Tom Barnard Strategic Plan 2020-21 Student Life Annual Report Student Life Spotlight Division of Student Life McLane Student Life Center One Bear Place #97016 Waco, TX 76798-7016 (254) 710-1314 StudentLife@baylor.edu EventsGiveNewsletter General Information Colleges, Schools, Libraries & Research Admissions Administration Gateways For... About Baylor Anonymous Reporting Athletics Ask Baylor Bookstore Calendar Campus Map Directory Give Light Give to Baylor Illuminate Mental Health Resources News Pro Futuris Report It Search Social Media Title IX Baylor Libraries College of Arts & Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work George W. Truett Theological Seminary Graduate School Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Louise Herrington School of Nursing Research at Baylor University Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Engineering & Computer Science School of Music More Academics Undergraduate Admissions goBAYLOR Graduate Admissions Baylor Law School Admissions Social Work Graduate Programs George W. Truett Theological Seminary Admissions Online Graduate Professional Education Virtual Tour Visit Campus Annual Fire Safety and Security Notice Athletics Human Resources Marketing and Communications Office of General Counsel Office of the President Office of the Provost Operations, Finance & Administration Senior Administration Student Life University Advancement Baylor Alumni Faculty & Staff Online Graduate Professional Education Parents Prospective Faculty & Staff Prospective Students Students Copyright © Baylor® University. All rights reserved. Legal Disclosures. Baylor University • Waco, Texas 76798 • 1-800-229-5678 About A Message from the Vice President Office of the Vice President Leadership Kevin P. Jackson, Ph.D. Sharra Hynes Jim Marsh Elizabeth D. Palacios Burt Burleson Office of the VP Staff Zach Mills Sandra Northern Janet Green Tom Barnard Strategic Plan 2020-21 Student Life Annual Report Student Life Spotlight Student Engagement Student Activities Campus Living (Housing) New Student Programs Student Conduct Administration Ombuds to Students Student Foundation Fraternity and Sorority Life Spiritual Life Worship Baptist Student Ministries Missions Pastoral Care Community & Culture Multicultural Affairs Diversity at Baylor Student Health & Wellness Campus Recreation Counseling Services Health Services Wellness Care Team 24/7 Care (Tele-Health) Resources Follow Us on Social Media Student Life YouTube What's New BU What's New BU Submission What's New BU Archive WNBU Submission Guidelines Off Campus Housing HESA Program Ombuds to Students Statement on Hazing GameDay for Students We're Hiring Make a Gift