Skip to Navigation Skip to Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links For information about COVID-19 policies and restrictions on campus, please visit the UCLA COVID-19 resources website. Events Newsroom Magazine Alumni Arts Give About About About Overview General Info Facts & Figures Rankings Leadership History Mission & Values Mission & Values Strategic Plan Equity, Diversity and Inclusion Impact Contributions & Discoveries Global Engagement Recognition Awards & Honors Athletic Championships & Medals Notable Alumni UCLA Ranked No. 1 Public University UCLA tops all public universities in the 2021 U.S. News & World Report rankings. Admission Admission Admission Overview Undergraduate Undergraduate Admission Undergraduate Tuition & Fees Undergraduate Financial Aid Undergraduate Tours Graduate Graduate Admission Graduate Tuition & Fees Graduate Funding Graduate Tours Additional Information International Applicants Extension Program Summer Sessions Academics Academics Academics Overview Explore Degree Programs & Majors College & Professional Schools Education Undergraduate Education Graduate & Professional Education Extension Courses & Certificates Summer Sessions Study Abroad Continuing Education Support Career Preparation Academic Advising First Generation New Student Programs Honors & Advanced Study Resources Libraries Academic Calendar Course Schedule Course Catalogue Research Research Research Campus Resources Research Across Campus Technology & Innovation Investments & Partnerships Libraries Student Research Graduate Research Undergraduate Research Campus Life Campus Life Campus Life Overview Campus Housing Residential Life Dining Health & Wellness Sustainability Student Life Clubs & Organizations Sports & Recreation Arts & Performance Volunteering & Service Directory Academic Calendar Maps & Directions Parking Campus Shuttles Public Transit Newsroom Magazine Alumni Arts Give Open Search Home Academics College and Schools College and Schools UCLA is home to the College and 12 highly ranked professional schools. The College houses 85 percent of undergraduates and is the overarching umbrella encompassing the Humanities, Social Sciences, Physical Sciences and Life Sciences academic divisions. School of the Arts and Architecture Offers B.A., M.A., M.F.A., M.Arch. I, M.Arch. II, Ph.D. Degree programs in four departments offer you unparalleled opportunities to learn from and interact with faculty members who rank among the most innovative artists, designers, ethnographers, choreographers, architects and arts scholars of today. #1 best art school nationally The College Offers B.A., B.S., M.A., M.A.S., M.S., C.Phil., Ph.D., M.A.T., M.S.S. As an undergraduate or graduate student taught by the College’s world-renowned faculty, you’ll be prepared to lead in business, government, academics and your community in California and throughout the world. 85% of undergraduates enroll in the College School of Dentistry Offers M.S., D.D.S., Ph.D. The School of Dentistry has a national and international reputation for its teaching, research activities and public outreach. Here, you’ll find your path to a professional career dedicated to patient care, leadership and service. Residency programs among the best in the world School of Education & Information Studies Offers M.A., M.Ed., Ed.D., Ph.D., M.L.I.S. Education and Information Studies is committed to the highest-quality professional education. Excellence here extends beyond campus, as you apply your research and scholarship to the challenges facing a diverse and increasingly urbanized world. #3 best educational school nationally Henry Samueli School of Engineering and Applied Science Offers B.S., M.S., Ph.D. Pursue cutting-edge research in areas such as precision medicine and bioengineering, sustainable and resilient urban design, robotics, artificial intelligence and machine learning. Get exposure to other disciplines in activities with campus partners. The birthplace of the Internet School of Law Offers L.L.M., J.D., S.J.D. Join a top-tier public law school committed to equality of access and opportunity. Gain experience by volunteering at local organizations or working for federal judges, government agencies, public interest law firms and nonprofit organizations. 6 law programs ranked top 10 nationally John E. Anderson Graduate School of Management Offers M.B.A., E.M.B.A., F.E.M.B.A., G.E.M.B.A., M.S., M.F.E., C.Phil., Ph.D. Learn to succeed through collaborating and experimenting with bold ideas in the world’s creative capital. You’ll graduate with a broad understanding of people and organizations and technical expertise in economic and mathematical management concepts. 4 business programs ranked top 10 nationally David Geffen School of Medicine Offers M.S., M.D., Ph.D. Make your mark at an internationally recognized leader in research, medical education and patient care. The school is affiliated with the nation’s No. 3 ranked hospital in UCLA Health, along with many other major local health care institutions. 6 of 8 specialities ranked top 10 nationally Herb Alpert School of Music Offers B.A., M.A., M.M., D.M.A., C.Phil., Ph.D. Here, a holistic education means engaging in a productive collaboration between performance and scholarship. Achieve a cross-cultural, global understanding of music and receive preparatory training for a range of careers in music after graduation. Student/faculty ratio of 4:1 School of Nursing Offers B.S., M.A., M.M., D.M.A., C.Phil., Ph.D. The School of Nursing will ensure you keep pace with changes and challenges by creating an atmosphere of learning that has earned a national and international reputation for excellence in teaching, research and clinical practice. #3 in NIH research funding nationally Meyer and Renee Luskin School of Public Affairs Offers B.A., M.P.P., M.S.W., M.U.R.P., Ph.D. Policymaking. Social work. Urban and regional planning. If you’re studying one of these areas at UCLA Luskin, you’ll find frequent opportunities for collaboration across disciplines. And together, you’ll work to solve society’s biggest problems. #13 best public affairs programs nationally Jonathan and Karin Fielding School of Public Health Offers M.P.H., M.P.H.-H.P., E.M.P.H., M.S., Dr.P.H., Ph.D. At the Fielding School, you’ll share a home with one of the brightest and most diverse public health student bodies in the U.S., where students hail from 27 countries. The school has five departments, including Biostatistics and Epidemiology. #10 best public health school nationally School of Theater, Film and Television Offers B.A., M.A., M.F.A., C.Phil., Ph.D. Explore the ancient and sacred roots of theater and the latest secular rituals enacted by popular film. Create dramatic characters for the stage and dramatic narratives for the screen. Write scripts and scholarly articles, and make digital movies. #9 best film school nationally Sign up for news, stories, and events from UCLA Strategic Communications Email First Name Last Name Zip Code Your email was submitted. Please check your inbox to complete your registration. You may unsubscribe at any time. Zip code is used to improve the content we share. Refer to our Terms of Use for more information on how we store and protect your data. Los Angeles 90095(310) 825-4321 Contact Directory Academic Calendar Careers Contact Us Media & Journalists Campus Campus Map Parking Campus Shuttles Public Transit Community Alumni Parents & Families Faculty Staff Emeriti & Retirees Venue & Events Conference Center & Hotel Film Production Event Planning Related Sites Athletics Extension Health Store Giving Centennial The Arts Arts Gateway Hammer Museum Fowler Museum Center for the Art of Performance Facebook Instagram Linked Twitter Youtube TikTok Snapchat © 2022 Regents of the University of California Emergency Accessibility Report Misconduct Privacy & Terms of Use Cookie Policy We use cookies to understand how you use our site and to improve your experience, including personalizing content and to store your content preferences. If you would prefer, you may set your browser to refuse cookies or alert you when cookies are being sent; however, it is possible that some parts of our sites will not function properly if you do so. By continuing to use our sites, you accept our use of cookies and revised Privacy Policy. I Accept