Skip to main content University of Nevada, Las Vegas Students Faculty/Staff Alumni Donors Community Audiences Students Faculty/Staff Alumni Donors Community Topics About Academics Admissions Athletics Diversity Research Menu U-N-L-V Campus Life Campus Life About Academics Admissions Athletics Diversity Research Find close Campus Life menu Campus Life Campus Life Home Arts and Entertainment Get Involved Las Vegas Our Campus Student Support School Spirit and Traditions Wellness close find region Find Search A-Z Index Directories Quick Links Bookstore Bookstore Calendar Calendar Campus Maps Campus Maps Degrees Degrees Libraries Libraries MyUNLV MyUNLV News Center News Center RebelCard RebelCard Rebelmail Rebelmail Social Media Social Media UNLV Mail UNLV Mail WebCampus WebCampus Loading Directories Home A-Z Index Colleges, Schools, and Departments Administrative Units Research Centers and Institutes Resources and Services Employee Directory Contact UNLV Social Media Directory UNLV Mobile Apps Breadcrumb UNLV Home Campus Life Home Wellness Wellness Although the word “wellness” might evoke thoughts of nutrition, exercise, and fitness, it encompasses far more than physical health. Here at UNLV, we strive to advance a culture of whole-person wellness, which includes mental and social well-being in addition to physical. We strongly believe that the ability to live our best selves, individually and within our communities, is founded on a holistic approach and active commitment to wellness across many domains. Be Well Wellness is essential to reaching our goals and achieving the best possible quality of life. It influences how we function, feel, and interact with others—and ultimately determines how successful we are in school, work, and life. UNLV cares about your wellness. “At UNLV, we are committed to the physical, mental, and social well-being of all members of our campus community. I encourage all students, faculty, and staff members to seek out the variety of resources we offer for their health, wellness, and success. Be well, UNLV!” Keith E. Whitfield, Ph.D., President Wellness is about more than the absence of illness or stress. It is the holistic integration of physical, mental, and social well-being. Wellness occurs when an individual attains a healthy balance of a number of different biopsychosocial factors. Among health researchers and practitioners, wellness is widely regarded as a multidimensional construct. Its various domains have been described as physical, intellectual, emotional, occupational, financial, social, environmental, spiritual, and more. Each of these dimensions contributes to our sense of wellness. They intersect and impact one another, growing in prominence or subsiding based on personal circumstances. Neglect of one or more of the dimensions for any length of time may produce adverse effects. For example, physical and mental health components are so closely linked that problems in one area can impact another. Improving physical health can also benefit psychological health and other wellness domains, and vice versa. Developing wellness is an individual and intentional process that involves the discovery of effective practices, techniques, and tools for continued growth and integration. There are countless ways to cultivate oneself on the self-directed and self-paced path of wellness and to create harmony across all aspects of one’s life. Assistance with COVID-19 Are you experiencing symptoms? Do you want to report a positive test? Do you have questions? Visit the COVID-19 Website Building Your Best Self Be Well in Body Engaging in practices that promote optimal physical health for the body, including regular exercise, proper nutrition, adequate sleep and rest, medical care as needed, and avoidance of harmful habits such as drug use and alcohol abuse. Be Well in Mind Cultivating mental growth and stimulation through creative and critical thinking to expand knowledge, skills, and abilities; understanding a healthy range of emotions and how to express them; coping effectively with stress; engaging in mindfulness; and exploring meaning and purpose in life. Be Well in Relationships Establishing a sense of connection and belonging through positive interpersonal relationships with family and friends; contributing to the community; cultivating awareness of and respect for diversity; maintaining a lifestyle that maximizes harmony with and minimizes harm to the environment; and achieving occupational satisfaction and alignment with personal values. Resources UNLV is dedicated to sustaining an environment that promotes the wellness of our students, faculty, and staff. By offering a wide variety of programs, resources, and services, we seek to make healthy living and wellness a part of our institutional culture. Resources for Students Resources for Faculty and Staff News The Interview: Sharon Jalene The Interview: Sharon Jalene Improving Wellness in Herself and Others Improving Wellness in Herself and Others Processing Trauma in the Classroom and Beyond Processing Trauma in the Classroom and Beyond Southern Nevada College Food Pantries Host July Drive Southern Nevada College Food Pantries Host July Drive Starting Over After the Pandemic Starting Over After the Pandemic Healing from Post-Pandemic Trauma Healing from Post-Pandemic Trauma Taking a Bite out of Health Care Taking a Bite out of Health Care Do You Snore? Tell Your Dentist Do You Snore? Tell Your Dentist Overwhelmed? Here's Help for Students, Faculty, and Staff Overwhelmed? Here's Help for Students, Faculty, and Staff Support Services Campus Recreational Services Disability Resource Center Faculty Center The Grad Academy Human Resources Jean Nidetch CARE Center Student Wellness Center The Practice UNLV Food Pantry UNLV Nutrition Center Women's Council Wellness Coronavirus Information Safety and Emergency University Statements and Compliance Web Accessibility Top Tier 2.0 Employment Visit Our Campus Campus Maps Parking Information News Center Contact UNLV University of Nevada, Las Vegas 4505 S. Maryland Pkwy. Las Vegas, NV 89154 Phone: 702-895-3011 Campus Notifications © 2022 UNLV Produced by UNLV Web & Digital Strategy UNLV.edu Privacy Statement Website Feedback Social Media at UNLV