Skip to main content Clemson University Degrees Home Degree Programs MENU Geology (B.S.) LEARN MORE ABOUT Earth is the only home we have, so we must study and learn the Earth's natural processes and how they impact our society. Environmental issues, water availability, energy resources, climate change and natural disasters all impact our health, our safety and our economy. As a geology major at Clemson, you'll study all of these issues plus traditional topics including rocks, minerals and fossils, which reveal information about Earth's history and provide the raw materials that our society and technology are built upon. This degree is designed to help you develop quantitative skills, while familiarizing you with the topics, technologies and resources needed to follow a career path in the geosciences. Geologists' career paths can range from traveling and collecting data at field sites to working in high-tech laboratories using advanced software and technology. FAST FACTS Our faculty are respected scholars who take a genuine interest in students' success and are actively engaged in students' research. You'll have opportunities to travel to the Bahamas and the western United States for field excursions. Our graduates have gone on to work for environmental agencies, energy and water authorities, and oil, gas and other mineral-producing industries. Geology majors experience fun and educational trips with chances to see natural processes in person. WHAT YOU'LL STUDY To prepare you for the wide range of career options available to geology majors, Clemson's program provides you with a well-grounded background in geology and related fields. In fact, we have built the curriculum around three critical themes: appreciation for spatial and temporal scales, knowledge of earth materials and compositions of environmental systems and understanding of geological and environmental processes. No matter the area of geology you're interested in, we have a flexible curriculum plan that allows you to tailor your degree to your future goals. Within that, you can choose to do a general geology degree — which allows for more electives within a specific interest area such as geophysics, paleontology, sustainability and geological engineering — or a concentration in environmental science or hydrogeology. These two concentrations provide structured course work to help prepare you for a career in these areas. Environmental Science Concentration: For students interested in learning how to collect and analyze environmental data, this concentration provides a solid introduction to environmental systems. You'll graduate prepared for a career in natural resources, the environmental consulting industry and government agencies, or graduate studies in environmental fields. Hydrogeology Concentration: Water is a resource everyone needs to access. This program focuses on understanding water availability and problems that could limit or restrict access to clean water. Graduates work for consulting companies, government agencies and natural resource management groups. Curriculum Geology, B.S. Geology: Environmental Science Concentration, B.S. Geology: Hydrogeology Concentration, B.S. Popular Minors Environmental Science and Policy Chemistry Physics Mathematical Sciences Sustainability Similar Majors Environmental and Natural Resources (B.S.) Environmental Engineering (B.S.) EXPERIENCES BEYOND THE CLASSROOM Geology majors have numerous opportunities to gain hands-on experience, apply what you've learned in the classroom to real-world situations and network with professionals in earth science fields. Geology Club Join Clemson's Geology Club and meet other students who share your interest in earth science. The club organizes field trips, invites professional speakers to campus and participates in service and outreach projects. Field Camp Geologists, hydrogeologists and scientists from other universities, the USGS and consulting companies join Clemson faculty to facilitate the Hydrogeology Field Camp. The trips and exercises provide insights into researching hydrologic issues. Research Starting your sophomore year, geology majors take a sequence of courses to learn the basics of geologic research by participating in ongoing group projects. Faculty also mentor students on independent research projects. Symposium The annual Clemson Hydrogeology Symposium focuses on geoscience issues in the Southeastern U.S. It provides an opportunity for students to present their research and meet professionals and employers from around the Southeast. CONNECT WITH OTHER STUDENTS PEER WISE AFTER GRADUATION Your college decision isn't really about the next four years. We get it. It's about what doors are opened by your degree and whether those opportunities are what you had envisioned for yourself. Here's a snapshot of what life after graduation looks like for some of our most recent students. WHERE OUR RECENT GRADUATES HAVE GONE KEY 41-100% 21-40% 11-20% 0-10% RECENT EMPLOYERS Environmental Consultant Northwind Environmental Consultant Texidyne Subsurface Project Assistant ExxonMobil South Carolina Department of Health and Environmental Control Georgia Environmental Protection Division RECENT POSTGRADUATE STUDIES Ph.D. Hydrology Colorado School of Mines M.S. Geosciences University of Kansas M.S. Geology Pennsylvania State University M.S. Geography Auburn University University of Virginia COMMON CAREER AREAS Energy Resources Structural Geology Geophysics Economic Geology Paleontology Fossil Energy Mineral Resources Mining Geology Mineralogy Geochemistry Economic Geology Paleontology Stratigraphy Sedimentology Crystallography Environmental Geology Sedimentology Hydrology Geomagnetism Earth Surface Dynamics Coastal and Marine Geology Geologic Mapping Astrogeology and Space Sciences Earthquakes, Volcanoes, Landslides, Floods Seismology Geomagnetism Global Seismic Networks Used with permission from the University of Tennessee. FIND OUT MORE Have more questions or want more information? Fill out the form below, which goes directly to the following department contact. If you’d also like to receive general University information from Clemson’s admissions office, please follow the link to the right and sign up to join our mailing list. Christopher Porter CECAS Undergraduate Recruitment Director 864-656-7870 cporter@clemson.edu Department Website College Website Loading... Department Website College Website Home Admissions Campus Life Academics Visit Outreach Research About Apply To Clemson Undergraduate Graduate Professional Online Education Employment Opportunities Policy/Terms of Use Text Version Web Accessibility Ethics/Safety Line Privacy Policy Site Information Copyright © 2015 Clemson University Clemson, South Carolina 29634 864-656-3311 Contact Clemson Stories for the Clemson Family Clemson University on Facebook Clemson University on Twitter Clemson University on Google+ Clemson University on LinkedIn Clemson University on YouTube Clemson University on Flickr Clemson University on Instagram Search Clemson University degrees Clemson Degree Programs Search Alphabetical List Schedule a Visit Campus Life Admissions Costs & Financial Aid Similar Majors To Geology (B.S.) Environmental and Natural Resources (B.S.) Environmental Engineering (B.S.)