Skip navigation Information For: Current Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Brown University Brown Grad School About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life A to Z Index People Directory Graduate School Application Information GRE Information Graduate School Skip to Navigation GRE Information Each program at Brown University may choose to require applicants to submit their official results from the Graduate Record Examination (GRE), or not. A list of GRE requirements for individual doctoral and Master’s programs can be found on the individual program pages. The GRE General Test at home version is accepted; please visit the GRE website for more information. For those programs which do require the GRE exam for admission, official results should be sent to the Graduate School or the School of Public Health, as detailed below. Please note, some departments also require official results of GRE Subject Tests or other supplemental materials. The GRE reporting code for the Brown University Graduate School is 3094. (Consult the list below for departmental codes related to subject tests). The GRE code for the Brown University School of Public Health is 7765. Applicants to the following programs should use this code: Behavioral and Social Health Sciences (doctoral or master's) Biostatistics (doctoral or master's) Clinical and Translational Research (master's) Epidemiology (doctoral or master's) Health Services Research (doctoral) Public Health (master's) INSTITUTION REPORTING CODES: Brown University Graduate School: 3094 Brown University School of Public Health: 7765 DEPARTMENTAL CODES: Consult the ETS list for the appropriate department code for the GRE. Home About the Graduate School Healthy Brown FAQs for Graduate Students Academics & Research Living & Resources Financing & Support Admitted Students & Orientation Application Information Application Components & Process GRE Information International Applicants Admissions Review Considering COVID-19 Disruptions Applicants Facing Extenuating Circumstances For Graduate Students For Faculty and Staff Apply Related Items Practice GRE Test GRE Departmental Codes Brown University Brown University Graduate School Box 1867 Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-2600 Maps & Directions / Contact Us / Accessibility © 2022 Brown University Resources Graduate School Handbook Academic Code CareerLAB Brown University Writing Center Sarah Doyle Center for Women and Gender Sheridan Center for Teaching & Learning Top Destinations Admission Inquiry Form Commencement Five-Year Ph.D. Support Open Graduate Education External Funding Application Process International Applicants