Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Apply Visit Give Information For Current Students Alumni Recruiters Search BC.edu Links Menu Main Nav Back Back Close About Overview Dean's Message Why the Carroll School? Diversity & Inclusion Diversity News Accreditation Board of Advisors Faculty Openings Visit Contact Related Links About Boston College Maps & Directions BC News Undergraduate Overview Academics Advising Peer Advisors Staff Advisors Concentrations Minors The Kevin Eidt Memorial Scholarship Career Accelerator Summer Management Catalyst Program Portico Careers Social Media CSOM Undergraduate Career Resources Placement Data Career Accelerator Study Abroad Community & Student Life FAQ CSOM Undergrad FAQs: COVID-19 Mar 13: Letter From Undergraduate Dean's Office Mar 20: Registration and Advising Updates Contact Graduate Overview Admission Visits and Events Tuition and Aid O’Brien Fellowship Graduate Admission FAQ International Applicants Information for U.S. Military MBA Programs Full-Time MBA Part-Time MBA Data Analytics Sequence Electives Applied Learning BC MBA Ambassadors M.S. Programs M.S. in Finance M.S. in Accounting Ph.D. Programs Ph.D. in Accounting Ph.D. in Finance Ph.D. in Organization Studies Community & Student Life Living in Boston Career Development Faculty Overview Faculty Directory Part-Time Faculty Faculty Expertise Departments Overview Concentrations Academics Accounting Undergraduate Concentrations Seminar Series Careers Message From the Chairperson Business Analytics Concentration & Academics Careers Seminar Series Message From the Chairperson Business Law & Society Finance Academics and Study Abroad F22 Registration Info Faculty Ph.D. Program Seminar Series Job Market Candidates Message From the Chairperson Information Systems Concentration & Academics Message From the Chairperson Seminar Series Management & Organization Concentration & Academics Seminar Series Careers Message From the Chairperson Marketing Concentration & Academics Careers Awards and Appointments Faculty Message From the Chairperson Fall 2022 Registration Centers Close Directory A to Z Listing Search Carroll School Search BC.edu Find pages or people Search Close Close Apply Visit Give Current Students Alumni Recruiters BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close Home Undergraduate Undergraduate Academics Careers Study Abroad Community & Student Life FAQ Contact Undergraduate Where Vision Meets Values With its distinctive blend of management education, liberal arts learning, and commitment to the greater good, life at the Carroll School of Management is anything but business as usual. Consistently ranking among the nation’s top business schools, we prepare conscientious, highly skilled, well-rounded professionals ready to lead. Working closely with faculty and advisors, undergraduates choose a business specialty, discover what drives them, and round out their knowledge by studying across disciplines. In the process, they cultivate their intellectual curiosity and acquire the quantitative and qualitative skills that enable them to thrive in the 21st century economy. Throughout their four years, students engage with the global and ethical dimensions of business—learning to analyze complex challenges, take risks for innovation, communicate perceptively, and act responsibly. Here, education is about more than finding a job. It’s about creating a place—and making a difference—in the world. Related Links COVID-19 Related FAQs Admission & Aid Dean of Students Financial Aid Residential Life Current students: Now you can find all the advising resources in one place! CSOM Undergrad Advising Website CSOM Career Advising Website By the Numbers #13 Best Undergraduate Business Schools, 2020 Poets & Quants $71,000 Average starting salary Class of 2019 2,271 Undergraduate students 41% of the Class of 2019 also completed a major or minor in the Morrissey College of Arts and Sciences More Facts and Figures Think Critically We challenge students to relentlessly inquire about themselves, the subjects they study, and the world around them, to explore the boundaries of knowledge, and to search for insight wherever they go. Learning to evaluate issues from various angles is an essential element of their Jesuit liberal arts education. Act Ethically We believe business leaders of today—and tomorrow—must account for the well-being of communities and the world at large. From their first semester in our distinctive Portico course and throughout their time at the Carroll School, students reflect on the importance of coupling sound business practices with social awareness and ethical action. Lead Boldly The best leaders integrate hard and soft skills—combining practical expertise with adept communication, cultural competency, and intellectual dexterity. Carroll School students hone the full spectrum of skills, learning to manage and direct individuals, teams, and organizations to fulfill their potential. “We have three aims for you during your time here. First, you will be known and cared for. Second, you will work hard and be challenged to do your best (because, as in the words of a person I greatly admire, ‘I've never met a happy lazy person’). And third, you will think hard by being asked to see many things at the same time, seeking truth through enlargement of the mind. Your fellow students, faculty, and staff of the Carroll School will challenge and support you along the way, and you should feel free to reach out to me if you ever need anything.” Ethan Sullivan, Senior Associate Dean for Undergraduate Programs Student Voices The Art of Self Reflection Portico This foundational program introduces first year students to the Carroll School’s rich resources and the breadth of contemporary business—including its evolution, global dimensions, ethical challenges, and emerging opportunities. Learn More Academic Tools Academic Calendar Concentrations Faculty Directory Advising Back To Top Back To Top Carroll School of Management Fulton Hall Boston College 140 Commonwealth Avenue Chestnut Hill, MA 02467-3809 About the Carroll School Undergraduate Graduate Faculty & Research Departments Centers Contact Accreditation Apply Visit Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkedIn Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College