Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Division of Business and Finance Departments Vision, Mission, & Values Annual Report Communications Org Charts Forms Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact Take Action Strategic Goals & Tactical Plan Students & Parents Faculty & Staff Contact Us Follow Us Online twitter Home Division of Business and Finance B&F Areas of Interest for Students and Parents B&F Areas of Interest for Students and Parents Bookstore Find all your school needs at the University of Memphis Bookstore! University & Student Business Services (Formerly the Bursar's Office) University & Student Business Services is responsible for the assessment and collection of student fees. They provide student fee information and general payment guidelines, and disburse financial aid. Here are few things you will find at the USBS web site: fee charts, fee payment deadlines, and important fee payment and refund dates. Your University ID - Campus Card The University of Memphis issues each student, faculty and staff member an identification card that bears their name and image. This permanent identification card is used as the primary campus-wide method of determining privileges and accesses. Students must be currently enrolled and a photo identification (such as driver's license or passport) is required to have an identification card made. Tiger Eat$ On the first day of classes, participating students are able to use their Student ID to eat a full meal or take a coffee break. Check out our dining and vending locations tabs to see where Tiger Eat$ can be used. Parking & Transportation Services Parking & Transportation Services manages all University owned parking lots and is responsible for administering the parking and traffic regulations of the University of Memphis. Students and visitors are invited to visit TigerPark, an online service that allows students and visitors access to view or buy permits, submit online appeals and manage your Parking account. Tiger Copy & Graphics Tiger Copy & Graphics provides full service color and B&W copying, digital printing, binding & finishing services, and self-serve copying among other service needs. Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 12/11/20 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.