Brown University Quick Exit General Health Physical Health Acne Asthma Breast Exams Bronchitis Colds Concussion Headaches Meningitis Mononucleosis Sleep Seasonal Flu Sun Safety and Skin Cancer Stomach Flu Testicular Self-Exams Travel and Health Yeast Infection Emotional Wellbeing Mindfulness Sleep Stress Self-Care Techniques for Stress Relief Wellness on Campus Social Wellbeing Community, Connection and Coping: Remote Resources Consent Economic Stress Roommate Relationships Unlearning Toxic Masculinity Reproductive Health Abortion Adoption Amenorrhea Bacterial Vaginosis Colposcopy Erectile Dysfunction Pregnancy Gender Care GYN Visits HPV Vaccine Menstruation Pelvic Inflammatory Disease Pregnancy Tests Premature Ejaculation Prenatal Care Testicular Self-Exams Accessing Care Gender Care GYN Visits LGBTQ Health Care at Health Services Men's Health Exams Pregnancy Tests STI Testing Options Resources and Links Nutrition & Eating Concerns Eating Well at Brown Being a Vegetarian Dietary Guidelines Eating Off Meal Plan Meal Plan And Dining Information Supplements Eating Concerns and Body Image Body Image Concerns Eating Concerns Help at Brown Sports Nutrition Relative Energy Deficiency in Sport (RED-S) Sports Nutrition Accessing Care Help at Brown Worried about a Friend Sexual Health Sex 101 SHAG! Erectile Dysfunction Orgasm Premature Ejaculation Sex and Alcohol Sex Toys Sexually Explicit Media Contraception Birth Control Pills Cervical Cap Condoms Depo-Provera Emergency Contraception Fertility Awareness Method Implant Internal Condoms IUD Ortho Evra (The Patch) Ring Spermicides and Lubricants The Recent Election & Contraception Access Withdrawal (Pull Out Method) Reproductive Health Abortion Adoption Amenorrhea Colposcopy Erectile Dysfunction Pregnancy GYN Visits HPV Vaccine Menstruation Pelvic Inflammatory Disease Pregnancy Tests Prenatal Care Testicular Self-Exams Yeast Infection Safer Sex Ship n SHAG! Sexual Health and Safer Sex During Covid-19 Abstinence Condoms Dental Dams Internal Condoms Post Exposure Prophylaxis (PEP) Pre Exposure Prophylaxis (PrEP) Safer Sex Withdrawal (Pull Out Method) STIs AIDS/HIV Bacterial Vaginosis Chlamydia Colposcopy Gonorrhea Hepatitis B Herpes HPV and Genital Warts HPV Vaccine Molluscum Contagiosum Oral Sex and STIs Pelvic Inflammatory Disease Pubic Lice and Scabies Sexually Transmitted Infections Syphilis Talking with a Partner STI Testing Options Trichomoniasis Urinary Tract Infections Yeast Infection Sexual Assault & Dating Violence Get Help Sexual Assault Response Line SHARE Advocates Dating Violence First Five Days After an Assault Male Survivors Sexual Violence and Assault Sexual Harassment Stalking Help a Friend SHARE Advocates How to Help a Friend Get Involved in Prevention Interrupting the Red Zone: How we keep each other safe Culture of Respect Collective Sexual Assault Peer Education (SAPE) Help Prevent Sexual Assault Unlearning Toxic Masculinity Relationships and Communication Consent Dating Violence Learn More Common Reactions to Sexual Violence and Assault Predatory Drugs Sexual Misconduct and Title IX Sexual Violence: Key Terms Resources and Links Alcohol & Other Drugs Alcohol Alcohol and Your Body Recognizing a Problem Risks and Realities Sex and Alcohol Ways to Cut Down Other Drugs Caffeine Cocaine Ecstasy Energy Drinks GHB Inhalants Ketamine LSD Marijuana Methamphetamine Predatory Drugs Psilocybin (Mushrooms) Rohypnol Tobacco Smokeless Tobacco Smoking Cessation Tobacco Learn More Law and Policy Summary Educational Links Accessing Care Resources at Brown Off Campus Resources Calling EMS How to Help a Friend Quit Smoking How to Talk to a Friend about Drinking or Drug Use Google Tag Manager STIs Gonorrhea Updated December 2016. What is gonorrhea? Gonorrhea is one of the common bacterial sexually transmitted infections (STIs). It is caused by the bacterium neisseria gonorrhoeae and can infect the urethra, mouth, throat, rectum, cervix, uterus, or fallopian tubes. Because the signs of gonorrhea often go unnoticed, an individual can develop serious health complications before they recognize they are infected. Is it common? Each year approximately 650,000 people in the US are infected with gonorrhea. Approximately 75% of all reported gonorrhea cases in the US are found in individuals 15 to 29-years-old. How is it transmitted? Gonorrhea can be transmitted during vaginal and anal sex and, rarely, through oral sex. During oral sex on a penis, both people can give or get gonorrhea from each other. During oral sex on a vagina, the person giving oral sex would be more likely to be at risk for gonorrhea. Gonorrhea can be transmitted even if there are no signs or symptoms of infection. It can also be passed from an infected mother to a newborn during vaginal childbirth. It is not passed through casual contact. What are the symptoms? Gonorrhea can be present in an individual without producing symptoms. 90% of people with vaginas may have no symptoms at all. Often, the first indication may arise when a partner is diagnosed. In people with vaginas, symptoms may include: Burning during urination Yellowish-greenish discharge from the vagina Pain in the pelvic or abdominal area Fever Unusual vaginal bleeding Painful sexual activity Bleeding after sexual activity Swelling or tenderness of the vulva Arthritic pain People with penises are more likely to have symptoms, but symptoms can also go undetected. In people with penises, symptoms may include: Burning during urination Yellowish-white discharge from the penis Fever Swollen or painful testicles For all genders, gonorrhea infection may also occur in the throat, causing a minor sore throat or no symptoms at all and may also occur in the rectum, causing pus-like or bloody discharge, anal itching, soreness, bleeding, and sometimes painful bowel movements. How soon after exposure to gonorrhea will symptoms appear? If symptoms appear, they usually appear in people with vaginas within 10 days and in people with penises within 2 to 5 days, but can take as long as 30 days to surface. Even if you don't have symptoms, you can spread the infection to others if you don't use condoms or dental dams during sex. How is it diagnosed? Your medical provider will take a urine sample or a swab of the cervix, vagina, rectum, urethra, or throat and this will be analyzed by a lab test. You can make an appointment with Health Services or you can contact another testing site in Providence. Click here to see a listing of local STI test sites. If you choose to get tested at Health Services, you can ask your medical provider about testing costs and when you can expect your results back during your appointment. How is it treated? Gonorrhea infections are treated with antibiotics. All partners must be treated. Once you are treated you will also need follow-up cultures and an examination. Although it is generally easy to treat, some gonorrhea organisms are becoming resistant to antibiotic drug treatment. Even if symptoms are relieved, it is important to take the entire prescription to make sure the infection is gone. If you are tested at Health Services, you can pick up your antibiotic prescription here at the pharmacy. If you find out that you are infected with gonorrhea, you should also notify your sex partner(s) so that they can be treated, even if they don't have symptoms. This will reduce the risk of your partner(s) experiencing complications from an infection and will reduce your risk of being re-infected. You should not have sex with your partner(s) until you complete your treatment, and until your partner(s) are tested and receive their treatment. If you have had gonorrhea in the past and have been treated, you can get the disease again if you have sexual contact with an infected person. Can gonorrhea infections be dangerous? If left untreated, gonorrhea may cause sterility, arthritis, and heart problems. In people with vaginas and uteruses, gonorrhea can cause pelvic inflammatory disease (PID) and ectopic pregnancy. Related Links For more information about gonorrhea, you can visit: Planned Parenthood Centers for Disease Control About BWell: Quick Links About Us Staff Confidential Appointments Sexual Assault Response Line Workshops Peer Education Programs Health Empowerment Tools PHONE NUMBERS 401.863-2794 Health Promotion 401.863-3953 Health Services 401.863-6000 Sexual Assault Response Line 401.863-4111 EMS 401.863-3476 Counseling & Psychological Services 401.863-4111 DPS Make an Appointment View the SHAG video series! Ship n SHAG! Place an order with Ship n SHAG and get free safer sex supplies discreetly delivered to your campus mailbox! Get Involved Meet Our Staff About Us Make an Appointment Brown University BWell Health Promotion Health and Wellness Brown University Box 1928 450 Brook Street Providence, Rhode Island, 02912 Phone 401-863-2794 Fax 401-863-7953 [email protected] © 2022 Brown University Connect: [email protected] Related Offices Brown EMS Counseling and Psychological Services Health Services Social Media BWell on Facebook SHAG on Facebook BURP on Facebook Health Services on Facebook