Skip to main content Google Tag Manager Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Prospective Newly Admitted Current Alumni Columbia University School of General Studies Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Admissions Educational Financing Academics Student Services About Undergraduate Admissions How to Apply Eligibility Application Deadlines and Decisions Information Sessions/Campus Visits Transfer Students Postbac Premed Admissions How to Apply Eligibility Application Deadlines and Decisions Information Sessions/Campus Visits Newly Admitted Students International Students Planning Day Placement Exams University-Wide Placement Exams U.S. Military Veterans International Dual Degree Programs Types of Financial Aid Institutional Scholarships Federal and State Grants Loans Private Scholarships and Grants Student Employment Financial Aid for Military Veterans Post-9/11 GI Bill® and the Yellow Ribbon Program Veterans Request for Certification Cost of Attendance Applying for Financial Aid Prospective Students Newly Admitted Students Current Students University Employees Postbac Premed Students Counseling Appointments Enrollment Update Form Student Account Refunds Undergraduate The Core Curriculum Degree Fulfillment Course Listings Majors and Concentrations Research Opportunities Study Abroad Academic Calendar Postbac Premed Program Curriculum & Courses Sample Schedule Course Listings Preparatory Coursework Previously Completed Coursework Glide Year Master’s Programs Academic Calendar Applying to Medical School General Admission Linkage Admission Linkage Specific Program Requirements Reapplicants Letters of Recommendation Academic Policies Registration Enrollment and Courseload Leaves and Withdrawals Academic Integrity and Standards Faculty of Arts and Sciences Undergraduate Announcements Postbac Premed Announcements Academic Advising Academic Resource Center Programs & Services Jumpstart Series Tutoring Peer Advising Campus Services Forms and Guides Graduation Health and Wellness Housing International Students Medical School Fair Planning Your Future Accelerated Master's Programs Fellowships and Research Premedical Clinical and Research Positions Student Life Leadership Development Multicultural & Social Justice Education Programs Student Organizations Upcoming Events Veterans Resources and Initiatives Leadership Mission History Statistics and Facts Notable Alumni University Policies Events Staff Directory Faculty News Press Coverage Media Inquiries School of General Studies You are here: Home Admissions Undergraduate Admissions How to Apply How to Apply Application Process Updates for Fall 2022 Applicants Application Requirements Online GS Admissions Exam Deadlines and Decisions Admissions Checklist Prospective Student Appointment Undergraduate applicants are admitted to the School of General Studies as matriculated degree candidates. Students may enroll either full or part time and may change their status from semester to semester. Undergraduate applicants are only eligible for admission if they have taken a break of a year or more in their educational paths or have a compelling personal or professional reason to attend Columbia as a part-time student. Application Overview The School of General Studies (GS) is the undergraduate college at Columbia University created specifically for students pursuing a nontraditional path to complete a Bachelor of Arts degree. GS is also the college at Columbia for students seeking to complete a second BA degree. GS students take the same courses, are taught by the same faculty, and earn the same degree as all other Columbia undergraduates. Applicants may not simultaneously apply to the School of General Studies and to any other undergraduate division of Columbia University—Columbia College (CC) or Columbia Engineering (SEAS)—nor are candidates eligible to apply to the School of General Studies if in the last three years they applied to any of these divisions and were not accepted. Notice of Non-Discrimination The admissions policies of the School of General Studies adhere to the Columbia University Non-Discrimination Policy. Full Non-Discrimination Statement and Policy Updates for Fall 2022 Applicants In response to the impacts of COVID-19, there have been some modifications to our application policies to better accommodate students wishing to apply to the School of General Studies for Fall 2022. Please see below for important updates to the applications process: High School Transcripts will not be required from students who have completed at least 30 credits of courses at a college or university. Please note, that if you are admitted at GS you will still be required to submit your high school records before enrolling in classes. Applicants will not be required to submit an SAT, ACT, or the Online GS Admissions Exam to be evaluated for admissions. Given that recent SAT and ACT exams have been cancelled, and that our Online GS Admissions Exam can present access issues for some candidates, applicants choosing to apply without an exam on record will be reviewed holistically without any impairment to the candidate’s potential to be admitted to GS. The admissions process is a multi-layered review that highly contextualizes an applicant’s candidacy within their life experiences. For students who choose to submit ACT or SAT test results, we will continue to accept self-reported scores and only require official testing for enrolling students. If you desire to take the Online GS Admissions Exam, please take appropriate steps as outlined in the application form. *Please note that non-native English speakers should refer to our English proficiency testing requirements, which remain in effect. Application fees for Fall 2022 enrollment have been suspended. We recognize that financial uncertainty may impact decisions you will make in the near future. Once you have completed your application, please submit it and select that you will pay by credit card. Applications will be reviewed daily to waive the application fee. Please do not submit payment and ignore the payment due on your application status page. Again, it is important that you DO NOT submit payment and the fee will be waived within 24 hours of the application submission. For more details on the application requirements for undergraduate students at GS, please see below. Expand all Collapse all How to Apply Application Requirements The following items are required to review an application for admission to GS as an undergraduate degree candidate. Please note that unofficial documents are accepted as part of the application process, and can be used to make an admissions decision. If offered admission, in order to enroll you will be required to submit official* documents. Note: Documents not written in English must be accompanied by certified translations. A submitted online application. High school transcripts, secondary school records, or GED/TASC test results.*** High school transcripts, secondary school records, or GED/TASC test results are required from any student with less than 30 earned college course credits. Applicants with a GED or TASC and two or more years of high school are required to submit their high school transcripts. Please note: All students admitted to the School of General Studies are required to submit official transcripts from high school as well as documentation of high school graduation prior to enrollment. Transcripts from all colleges or universities attended Test Score(s)*,*** If your native and predominant spoken language is English, or if the primary language of instruction in your high school or secondary education was English: Submit an official score report from the Scholastic Assessment Test (SAT) or American College Testing Program (ACT) or the Online General Studies Admissions Exam (College Board). On your application for admissions, you must indicate which exam you intend to submit. Unofficial scores can be reported directly on the application form and can be used to make admissions decisions. Official* score reports can be sent at any time but are required to be sent directly to the GS Office of Admissions from the testing service before you enroll at Columbia University. The SAT code number for GS is 2095 and the ACT code number is 2716. Students who have no test scores may take the Online General Studies Admissions Examination at a cost of $50. If your native or predominant spoken language is not English, and the primary language of instruction in your high school or secondary education was not English: You must demonstrate proficiency in English by submitting official scores from TOEFL, IELTS, or Duolingo. On your application for admission, you must indicate which exam you intend to submit. The TOEFL or IELTS must be taken within two years of application to the School of General Studies. To be eligible to apply for admission, GS requires a score of 100 on the internet-based TOEFL (or 600 or better on the paper version), a score of 7.0 on the IELTS, or a score of 120 on Duolingo. Applicants should arrange to have recent test scores sent to the GS Office of Admissions directly from the testing service. The Educational Testing Service (ETS), the organization that administers the TOEFL, code for GS is 2095. Students enrolled in Columbia’s American Language Program (ALP) who have achieved a minimum level of 8 should forward their placement information to the GS Office of Admissions, as it can be used to satisfy the test score requirement. If admitted to GS, you will still be required to continue coursework with ALP until you achieve level 10. Applicants who have earned one or more of the following subsection scores may submit their test results to fulfill the standardized test requirement: 650 or higher on either the Critical Reasoning or Writing sections of the SAT before March 2016 700 or higher on the Evidence Based Reading and Writing section of the redesigned SAT (beginning in March 2016) 29 or higher on the English or Reading sections of the ACT One typed, double-spaced essay of approximately 1,500-2,000 words Refer to the admissions application for details about the essay question Two letters of recommendation from academic and/or professional sources Letters should be requested and submitted via the application portal A nonrefundable application fee of $80 should be submitted using the secure online application system*** New Student Scholarship Application** Note: Applicants must submit all materials directly, not through an agent or third-party vendor. In addition, the applicant will be required to attest to the accuracy and authenticity of all information and documents submitted to Columbia. If you have any questions about this requirement please contact us at [email protected]. Failure to submit complete, accurate, and authentic application documents consistent with these instructions may result in the denial or revocation of degree. Applicants may be required to assist admissions staff and faculty involved in admissions reviews in the verification of all documents and statements made in documents submitted by students as part of the application review process. *Official documents are those that arrive directly from the institution, testing service, or recommender electronically. If electronic documents are not available from your high school, we will accept mailed copies of the transcripts sent directly to the GS Office of Admissions from the issuing agency. Paper transcripts may not be delivered or forwarded by a student. If electronic documents are not available from your college or university, please contact the GS Office of Admissions for further instruction. **Submitting the New Student Scholarship Application is optional, but highly recommended. Please consult the Office of Educational Financing page for additional information on applying for scholarships and financial aid at the School of General Studies. ***Varies for Spring 2022 applicants. Please see Updates for Spring 2022 Applicants section above. Important Contact Information Office of Admissions and Educational Financing Columbia University School of General Studies 408 Lewisohn Hall, MC 4101 2970 Broadway New York, NY 10027 (212) 854-2772 [email protected] Tracking Your Application If you have already applied to Columbia University School of General Studies, you may check the status of your application online. Online GS Admissions Exam Online GS Admissions Exam Undergraduate applicants are required to take the Online GS Admissions Exam if their native and predominant spoken language is English or if their primary language of instruction in high school or secondary education was English. In lieu of taking the Online GS Admissions Exam, students may submit a score report from the Scholastic Assessment Test (SAT) or the American College Testing Program (ACT). Students whose native or predominant spoken language is not English—and whose primary language of instruction in high school or secondary education was not English—must submit a score report from one of the following options: Test of English as a Foreign Language (TOEFL), International English Language Testing System (IELTS), or the Duolingo English Test. Note: Students are not required to take the Online GS Admissions Exam, SAT, or ACT in addition to one of the preceding options. When to Take the Exam After submitting an application for admission, applicants will see a link to pay the online exam fee of $50. Upon receipt of payment, the Office of Admissions will process the fee and send the applicant an email with the subject of Remote Voucher Notification, which will include information about registering for an online exam at the time of the applicant’s choice. Please note that the Office of Admissions requires seven business days to process the exam payment and issue a voucher. Note: Students may only take this exam once per application term. Disability Accommodations Applicants seeking exam-related accommodations for the Online GSAE must register with Disability Services. Disability Services reviews accommodation requests and determines an applicant's eligibility for accommodations on the exam. The review process takes approximately three weeks, and does not begin until a student's completed registration form and disability documentation are received. If an applicant does not allow for at least three weeks to complete the review process, the implementation of any approved accommodations cannot be guaranteed. Exam Sections The Online GS Admissions Exam (with sections derived from the College Board’s Next-Generation Accuplacer) is designed to test an applicant's skills in reading, critical thinking, and writing. Please note that there is no math section on this exam. Next-Generation Reading Assesses the test taker's ability to derive meaning from a range of texts and to determine the meaning of words and phrases in short and extended contexts. Passages on the test cover a range of content areas, writing modes, and complexities. Both single and paired passages are included. Four broad knowledge and skills categories are assessed: Information and Ideas Rhetoric Synthesis Vocabulary Next-Generation Writing Evaluates a test taker's ability to revise and edit multi-paragraph text. Questions cover two broad knowledge and skills categories, each containing three subcategories: Expression of Ideas Development Organization Effective language use Standard English Conventions Sentence structure Usage Punctuation The final portion of the exam is a written essay. Please note that unlike the previous sections, which do not have a time limit, the essay section is timed and limited to one hour. Practice Questions Practice questions for the Reading and Writing sections of the examination may be found on the Next-Generation Accuplacer website. Scoring Please note that test-takers will not receive a score report, as the exam is for internal use only. Payment Policies There is a cost of $50 for applicants to take the Online GS Admissions Exam. Applicants should be aware of the following policies regarding online payment. Refund/Cancellation Policy No refunds will be given for cancellations. Privacy Policy The School of General Studies keeps all student registration and payment transaction information confidential. This information will not be distributed to third-party entities. Deadlines and Decisions Fall Admission Application Open: December 1 Priority Early Action Deadline*: January 15 Early Action Deadline*: March 1 Regular Decision Deadline: May 15 *International candidates in need of an F1 Student Visa are encouraged to apply for the Early Action Deadline. Spring Admission Application Open: August 1 Priority Early Action Deadline*: September 1 Early Action Deadline*: October 1 Regular Decision Deadline: November 1 *International Candidates in need of an F1 Student Visa are encouraged to apply for the Early Action Deadline. Admissions Decisions Admissions decisions are made on a rolling basis (typically six to eight weeks after receiving a complete application), therefore early submission is encouraged. All applications received after the final deadlines will be considered on a case-by-case basis. Admissions Checklist Send application materials to: Office of Admissions and Financial Aid Columbia University School of General Studies 408 Lewisohn Hall, MC 4101 2970 Broadway New York, NY 10027 A completed application includes: Application for Admission Autobiographical essay of 1,500-2,000 words Two letters of recommendation $80 USD application fee made payable to Columbia University Photograph (recommended, but not required) New Student Scholarship Application—Prospective students should apply for financial aid when applying for admission. Applying for scholarships and financial aid does not, in any way, affect our admission decision. The New Student Scholarship Application must be submitted online. Note: Interviews, although not generally required, are sometimes necessary to complete the review of applications, and in such cases are requested by members of the Admissions Committee. Phone interviews may also be requested. Applicants must arrange to have the following required documents sent: Official* high school transcripts, secondary school records, or GED/TASC test results. Applicants with a GED or TASC and two or more years of high school must submit their high school transcripts. Official* transcripts from all colleges or universities attended, or currently attending Official* test scores from the SAT Reasoning Test (SAT), American College Testing Program (ACT), or the Online GS Admissions Examination. The ETS code number for the School of General Studies of Columbia University is 2095. The ACT code number for General Studies is 2716. If your native or predominant spoken language is not English and the primary language of instruction in your high school or secondary education was not English, you must demonstrate proficiency in English by submitting official scores from the Duolingo English Test, TOEFL, or IELTS. The Duolingo online exam takes about 30 minutes to complete, and test results are available within 48 hours. If submitting a TOEFL or IELTS score report, the exam must have been taken within two years of applying. *Official transcripts and test scores are those that arrive in a sealed envelope directly from the school or testing service. Note: Documents not in English must be accompanied by a certified translation. Admissions Advisement Prospective Student Appointments The Office of Admissions dedicates time for prospective students to speak directly with an admissions representative. Topics that might be discussed during these appointments include: Academic record Eligibility to apply Major and core curriculum Transfer credits Appointment Procedures An appointment is recommended for students who cannot attend an information session, or have attended an information session and have specific questions, to more directly discuss the opportunities offered at the School of General Studies and the application process. Appointments are 20-30 minutes in length and may be conducted over the phone or through video conference. Appointment Availability Students who seek admissions advising appointments should note that appointments are only listed if they are available. If none are listed, please check back for additional availability. Make an Appointment Note: Prospective students who previously applied to the School of General Studies should not electronically schedule an appointment, and should instead contact the Office of Admissions at 212-854-2772. Online Application Request More Information Contact Information Office of Admissions Columbia University School of General Studies 408 Lewisohn Hall, MC 4101 2970 Broadway New York, NY 10027 Phone: +1 (212) 854-2772 Toll Free: (800) 895-1169 Fax: +1 (212) 854-6316 [email protected] Admissions Undergraduate Admissions Postbac Premed Admissions Newly Admitted Students U.S. Military Veterans International Dual Degree Programs Educational Financing Types of Financial Aid Financial Aid for Military Veterans Cost of Attendance Applying for Financial Aid Counseling Appointments Enrollment Update Form Student Account Refunds Academics Undergraduate Postbac Premed Program Applying to Medical School Academic Policies Faculty of Arts and Sciences Student Services Undergraduate Announcements Postbac Premed Announcements Academic Advising Academic Resource Center Campus Services Forms and Guides Graduation Health and Wellness Housing International Students Medical School Fair Planning Your Future Premedical Clinical and Research Positions Student Life Veterans Resources and Initiatives About Leadership Mission History Statistics and Facts Notable Alumni University Policies Events Staff Directory Faculty News Press Coverage Media Inquiries Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close