Skip to Main Content Brown University News from Brown Site Navigation Featured Events For Journalists Search Menu Topics Student Life Date April 13, 2021 2021-04-13 Media Contact Jessica Tabak [email protected] 401-863-1632 All News Share Facebook Twitter Linkedin Email Thomas Usherwood: Better health care through biomedical engineering The Brown undergraduate and newly named Goldwater Scholar draws from multiple math and science disciplines to help devise innovative ways to improve health care through biomedical engineering. Brown junior Thomas Usherwood prepares an experiment in the lab of Anubhav Tripathi, professor of engineering and molecular biology, pharmacology and biotechnology. Usherwood has been awarded a Goldwater scholarship recognizing his research achievements. Photos by Nick Dentamaro. PROVIDENCE, R.I. [Brown University] — Thomas Usherwood was still a high school student when he first became interested in biomedical engineering — a field that draws upon math, physics, biology and computer programming to devise innovative ways to improve health care. That interest brought him to Brown, where he has been able to explore the many branches of math and science that inform the field, he said. “To be successful in the biomedical engineering field, these days, it's important to have a background in a variety of subjects,” Usherwood said. “Brown is strong in a lot of the fields where I was really hoping to become skilled — from applied math to engineering to computer science.” Through a series of long-term undergraduate research experiences, the junior biomedical engineering concentrator has expanded upon and explored concepts introduced in his coursework. In the lab of Anubhav Tripathi — a professor of engineering and molecular biology, pharmacology and biotechnology — Usherwood has helped to develop a method for extracting DNA from blood samples. He is also a member of the lab of Vikas Srivastava, an assistant professor of engineering, where he has helped to design a computer model that predicts the impact that human behavior may have on the efficacy of COVID-19 vaccines. “To be successful in the biomedical engineering field, these days, it's important to have a background in a variety of subjects. Brown is strong in a lot of the fields where I was really hoping to become skilled — from applied math to engineering to computer science.” Thomas Usherwood Goldwater Scholar, Member of Class of 2022 Tweet this quote Usherwood has also contributed to a Dartmouth College project developing new ways to measure bone and soft tissue viability. For doctors, having access to this information will be helpful when detecting and treating bone and soft tissue damage in patients. Having these varied research opportunities has been essential to shaping Usherwood’s path, he said. “These experiences have given me a diversity of skills in lots of different subjects,” he said. “I’ve been able to think about what aspects of each type of engineering project I prefer, and that has guided me as I’ve developed a sense of what type of engineering projects I most enjoy.” In Spring 2021, Usherwood was awarded a Goldwater Scholarship, a nationally recognized award that supports sophomores and juniors who plan to pursue research careers in the natural sciences, mathematics and engineering. Usherwood said that his scholarship will enable him to pursue undergraduate research projects that will bolster his candidacy for Ph.D. programs next year — and that, in the meantime, are also a lot of fun. “It’s great to be able to continue working on these projects that I’m really enjoying,” he said. Three students win prestigious Goldwater scholarships for excellence in science Joseph Cavanagh, Thomas Usherwood and Hossam Zaki each received Goldwater scholarships, which support students who plan to pursue research careers in the sciences, mathematics and engineering. 2021 Goldwater Scholars at Brown Tags Awards and Fellowships The College Undergraduate Research Related news: Student Life Photos: Defying gravity with Brown Aerial and Acrobatics April 20, 2022 For 10 years, a student-run organization has taken to the air, delighting audiences with circus-inspired performances on trapeze, aerial silk, lyra and more. Read Article Open details for Photos: Defying gravity with Brown Aerial and Acrobatics Student Life Pawtucket native, U.S. Army veteran combines Brown education with service to community November 8, 2021 Brehan Brady — a self-described working-class kid from Pawtucket who transferred to Brown from the Community College of Rhode Island — joins other student veterans in forging a new path after their military service. Read Article Open details for Pawtucket native, U.S. Army veteran combines Brown education with service to community Student Life For senior Elvia Perez, an entrepreneurial approach to tackling educational disparities November 4, 2021 With classroom experiences across the Open Curriculum and support from the Nelson Center for Entrepreneurship, Perez built on her own experiences to launch EmpowerU, a startup that connects low-income students to higher education resources. Read Article Open details for For senior Elvia Perez, an entrepreneurial approach to tackling educational disparities Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown Social Navigation Facebook Instagram LinkedIn Snapchat Twitter YouTube Social Media Directory © Brown University Brown University For You Current Students Faculty Staff Parents & Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Featured Events For Journalists Topics Arts and Humanities Environment Health and Medicine News and Events Science and Technology Social Sciences Student Life University Initiatives Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation About Events For You Give to Brown All of Brown.edu People News Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Thomas Usherwood: Better health care through biomedical engineering Open details for Thomas Usherwood: Better health care through biomedical engineering Bookmark this Page