Skip to main content Navigation Academics Admissions Research Locations Student Life Alumni & Giving Athletics Apply Now Bachelor of Science in Secondary Education, BS Fuel Passion and a Love of Learning in Today’s Classrooms Program at a Glance Program Bachelor College(s) College of Community Innovation and Education Department(s) Teacher Education, Schl of 4 Years In State Tuition Out of State Tuition $212.28 per credit hour $748.89 per credit hour Learn more about program tuition and fees. Develop Meaningful Experiences for Middle and High School Students In the secondary education program at UCF, learn about developing pedagogy and content knowledge to meet the needs of students in middle and high school classrooms. You’ll explore a variety of current technologies used for teaching and learning, like practicing your skills with TeachLivE avatars. Plus, there are a number of different professional development opportunities and organizations to get involved in while you’re here. For instance, KnightED Talks workshops are free, hour-long events that cover a range of topics related to the teaching profession and are conducted by university faculty and K-12 educators. There’s also an annual KnightEd Talks Student Showcase where you can share your best work with peers during a 30-minute session in an in-house conference venue. This program offers two tracks that cater to your specific interests and career goals. If you’re interested in obtaining certification from the Florida Department of Education, you’ll want to consider one of our subject-area certifications available. However, the lifelong learning track is a great option if your professional goals don’t require certification. Certification Track Choose from several content area tracks based on your teaching interests. You’ll also be required to complete two teaching internships in middle or high schools prior to graduation and pass all relevant state certification exams. After completing your coursework, you’re eligible for teacher certification. English Language Arts Ed Mathematics Ed Science Ed – Biology Science Ed – Chemistry Science Ed – Physics Social Science Ed Lifelong Learning Track Teach or work in other settings outside of traditional schools that do not require teacher certification, such as curriculum publishing companies, museums, and science or marine programs. English Language Arts Ed (non-certification) Mathematics Ed (non-certification) Science Ed – Biology (non-certification) Science Ed – Chemistry (non-certification) Science Ed – Physics (non-certification) Social Science Ed (non-certification) Highlights About 80% of UCF teacher education graduates work in public schools across the state of Florida. Through our partnerships with public and private schools, we offer teacher candidates varied hands-on opportunities in working directly with students, practicing secondary teachers, program faculty and more. The secondary education field is expected to grow an estimated 4 percent through 2029. The national median earnings for secondary education graduates is $62,000. Undergraduate Application Deadlines Freshmen Transfers International Fall May 1 Spring November 1 Summer March 1 Fall July 1 Spring November 1 Summer March 1 Fall March 1 Spring September 1 Summer January 1 Ready to get started? Apply Today Start Your Application Today Ready to get started? Take the next step to save your spot at UCF. 1 Check out your application requirements. See what freshmen and transfer students need to apply. 2 Short on time? You can start your application today and come back later to finish. Apply Today Course Overview Critical Issues and Trends in Secondary Education Examine critical and contemporary issues and trends in secondary education classrooms. Laboratory experiences will connect to the issues and trends specific to particular content areas. Teaching Strategies and Classroom Management Explore instructional, organizational and classroom management strategies to create effective learning environments. Fifteen hour in-school experience required. Content Reading in Kindergarten through Grade 12 Gain an understanding of content literacy in the K-12 school curriculum, including principles, strategies, assessment and promising practices. Secondary Education Skills You'll Learn Learn strategies for teaching chosen content area at the secondary level. Differentiate instruction and teach all learners. Infuse technology into instruction. Apply effective classroom management strategies. Career Opportunities Middle School and High School Teacher American History Teacher English Language Arts Teacher Geography Teacher Mathematics Teacher Science Teacher Curriculum Developer Education News Check out more stories Colleges & Campus Finding Your Passion at UCF Through Research Annaliese Bullock expects to graduate this May with a master’s degree in educational leadership with a track higher education/student personnel track Community UCF Space Experts Work with School Teachers to Bring University Research Alive in Classrooms Local teachers work alongside UCF faculty to develop age-appropriate activities with connections to the Artemis program and other NASA missions. Colleges & Campus Charter Faculty Member Harry O. Hall Recognized University’s Potential The veteran educator — who recently died at 92 — began designing College of Education programs a year before classes started in 1968. Research UCF Professors Awarded NSF Grant to Empower Orange County K-8 Mathematics Teachers Researchers in collaboration with Orange County Public Schools and City Year Orlando launch a program that includes creating a new doctoral specialization. Degree Search College of Community Innovation and Education programs Bachelors Secondary Education (BS) University of Central Florida Colleges Burnett Honors Arts and Humanities Business Engineering and Computer Science Graduate Studies Health Professions and Sciences Medicine Nursing Optics and Photonics Sciences Undergraduate Studies Hospitality Management University of Central Florida About UCF Contact Us Faculty Online Degrees Policies Privacy Notice Public Records Regulations Report a Concern UCF News 4000 Central Florida Blvd. Orlando, Florida, 32816 | 407.823.2000 © University of Central Florida