Search BSD Home Penn Home Hospitality Services Calendar Maps Home Weekly Menu About the Club Facilities and Services Our Staff Our Board Room Reservations Lenape Room Hourglass Room House Rules By Laws Contact Us General Information IdeaWeb Membership Individual Membership Departmental Membership Membership Privileges Association of University Clubs Burrison Gallery Exhibits Advisory Committee News New at the Club The University Club membership is open to all faculty, staff, alumni and graduate students of the University for an annual individual membership fee. The comfortable dining room overlooking Walnut Street provides a relaxed atmosphere where you can dine with friends and colleagues Take advantage of buffet dining for a relaxed lunch featuring hot entrees, a salad bar, made-to-order sandwiches desserts and more. The Club also has space available for private events such as office retreats, small group luncheon, and professional speakers. Member events featuring Holiday Celebrations, Wine Tastings, and other favorites are offered in the comfortable Living Room adjacent to the Club. The Burrison Gallery features work by members of the Penn community / Burrison Gallery Current & Upcoming Exhibit The Burrison Gallery is currently closed. News and Special Events Upcoming News and Special Events - University Club Services are supended Dear University Club Members, The University Club will remain closed this upcoming Fall 2021 semester, with hopes to reopen in Spring 2022. We will continue to communicate with you here on our website, and also through our member email subscription listserv. We thank you for being a valued member of the University Club at Penn and look forward to seeing you soon. Please always feel free to email us at universityclub@upenn.edu Menus Daily Menu Weekly Menu Reservations Lenape Room Hourglass Room © University of Pennsylvania Privacy Copyright Disclaimer Report accessibility issues and get help We welcome your feedback on our services. Click the IdeaWeb logo to share your thoughts.