COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW Title IX Policy Statement Section Menu OIEC Home Contact OIEC Pregnancy Policies and Discrimination WSU Discrimination Policies OIEC Training Title IX Empowerment Summit Affirmative Action CARE Team Submit a Report CSA Training Packet Title IX Policy Review Title IX Policy Statement Resources and Additional Reporting Options Rights of the Parties in Sexual Harassment Cases If You Have Experienced Sexual Assault 2021 Title IX Review and Survey Archived Policies Frequently Asked Questions: Sexual Assault Prevention Training for Students OIEC Annual Reports Title IX of the U.S. Education Amendments of 1972 (“Title IX”) is a federal civil rights law that prohibits discrimination on the basis of sex in education programs and activities. Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. Under Title IX, discrimination on the basis of sex can include sexual harassment which is conduct on the basis of sex that satisfies one or more of the following: A WSU employee conditioning the provision of an aid, benefit or service on an individual’s participation in unwelcome sexual conduct (i.e., quid pro quo); and/or Unwelcome conduct that a reasonable person would determine to be so severe, pervasive, and objectively offensive that it effectively denies a person equal access to the university’s education program or activity; or Sexual assault characterized as, any sexual act directed against another, without their consent, including rape, fondling, dating violence, domestic violence, or stalking as set forth in the Violence Against Women Act (VAWA). Any person may report sex discrimination, including sexual harassment (whether or not the person reporting is the person alleged to be affected by conduct that could constitute sex discrimination or sexual harassment). Reports can be provided in person, by mail, by telephone, by email, using the contact information listed for the Title IX Coordinator, or by any other means, including the online reporting form, that results in the Title IX Coordinator receiving the person’s verbal or written report. Such a report may be made at any time (including during non-business hours) by using the telephone number, electronic mail address, or by mail to the office address listed for the Title IX Coordinator: Lucretia Taylor, Title IX Coordinator Lindquist Hall 208 1845 Fairmount St. Wichita, KS 67260-0138 316-978-5177 oiec@wichita.edu Inquiries regarding the non-discrimination policies and laws should be directed to Mke Irvin, Interim Executive Director of Institutional Equity and Compliance, Wichita State University, Lindquist Hall 209 1845 Fairmount St. Wichita, KS 67260-0138, 316-978-3186; oiec@wichita.edu WSU Policies and Procedures 3.06/Sexual Harassment, Discrimination and Retaliation Policy for Employees, Students and Guests provides information on WSU’s grievance procedures and grievance process, including how to report or file a formal complaint of sexual harassment, discrimination and retaliation. Inquiries regarding Title IX and its application to WSU’s Policies and Procedures 3.06/ Sexual Harassment, Discrimination and Retaliation Policy for Employees, Students and Guests should contact WSU’s Title IX Coordinator at the contact information listed above, or the U.S. Department of Education Assistant Secretary. The Assistant Secretary may be contacted at, U.S. Department of Education, Office of Postsecondary Education, 400 Maryland Avenue, S.W., Washington, DC 20202, Main Telephone: 202-453-6914. (PDF) 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©