Skip to main content Search form Search Information For Current Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Employers Contact Give About Search Menu Public Health Now News Events Publications Topics Student Voices Celebrating the Centennial Our Work to Address COVID-19 Columbia Public Health Magazine Academics Departments Degrees Course Directory Calendar Policy & Procedures Office of Education Research Featured Research Global Health Centers Programs Grants & Awards Corporate Partnerships People Our Faculty Current Students Friends and Supporters Partners Alumni Become a Student Meet Our Faculty Life & Community Degree Finder How to Apply Career Services More Information Master of Public Health Degree Programs Certificate Program Core Curriculum Search You are here Home Academics Office of Education Careers & Practice Winter Storm Update/Impacts to Campus and Services Last Updated 12:50pm Fri May 6 See Coronavirus Updates for information on campus protocols. Applied Practice Experience Support Career Services Students Departments Applied Practice Experience Funding Agencies Applied Practice Experience Support Career Services Students Departments Applied Practice Experience Funding Agencies Office of Careers and Practice Dr. Cassie Landers Interim Associate Dean for Field Practice Dr. Heather Krasna Assistant Dean and Director, Career Services The Office of Careers and Practice provides resources and supports to students from enrollment through the completion of their academic program. Career support continues for alumni throughout their professional careers. Field Practice We support the graduation-required Applied Practice Experience (APEx) for MPH, MHA and DrPH students through the practicum program. We can help you find an APEx site that aligns with your interests and goals, and help you complete the necessary paperwork to make it happen. We advise individual students and groups on these and other related issues, and offer pre-departure orientations for selected international field sites. Our unit supports other practice and professional opportunities such as volunteer, service-learning and interprofessional experiences for students across all departments and schools at Mailman. Are you looking for a field experience in a particular location, related to a specific health issue, or with a certain organization? Are you planning to travel to a location that is unstable due to political unrest or other risks? Are you interested in a practicum at one of the school-wide international sites or in an inter-professional service-learning opportunity? Feel free to participate in our info sessions and activities, make an individual appointment with us, drop-in to our office hours every Thursday from 11:30 to 12:50, or email your questions to msph-ofp@cumc.columbia.edu. CONTACT US: Stop by Field Practice located at 722 West 168 Street, 10th floor, Allen Rosenfield Building. You can also reach out to us at msph-ofp@cumc.columbia.edu. Career Services, Internships and Jobs Applications & Job Search Support Our Career Services staff is here to help you explore, develop and refine your career vision and goals, improve your resume/CV, cover letter, social media profiles, and enhance your networking, interviewing, and salary negotiation skills. We offer skill-building workshops, organize career fairs, establish contacts with employers and offer networking events, and opportunities to connect with employers. We also provide extensive career resources, such as our career handbook, Courseworks page, and our exclusive Mailman CareerLink database with job listings and our new Columbia Mailman Connect alumni mentoring system. Do you have a question about how to find a job or internship? Interested in applying to medical school or a doctoral program? Need help deciding on a career path? Anxious about interviewing or networking? Make an appointment with us on CareerLink, come to a workshop, or stop by our walk-in hours during the Fall or Spring semesters. We work with students from the first day of class through graduation and beyond. We provide lifetime, free career services to alumni. When you need help finding a new job or navigating a career-related issue, we are here for you. CONTACT US: Reach us by email at msphocs@cumc.columbia.edu. Our Drop-in hours and appointment times can be found on CareerLink and we are located on the 10th floor of the Allan Rosenfield Building. More to Explore Friday 03June COVID-19: From Causes to ConsequencesMay 27 2022 Period Poverty and the Pandemic: A Forgotten CrisisMay 4 2022 BARDA Support to Speed Development of Next-Generation Sequencing-Based Diagnostics PlatformMay 3 2022 Memorial Event Celebrates the Life of Zena SteinApr 27 2022 Sign up for Transmission Columnbia Mailman Connect with Us Public Health Now News Events Publications Topics Student Voices Academics Departments Degrees Course Directory Calendar Policy & Procedures Office of Education Research Featured Research Global Health Centers Programs Grants & Awards Corporate Partnerships People Our Faculty Current Students Friends and Supporters Partners Alumni Become a Student Meet Our Faculty Life & Community Degree Finder How to Apply Career Services More Information Columbia University Mailman School of Public Health | 722 West 168th St. NY, NY 10032 Site Map Privacy Columbia University Irving Medical Center Copyright © Columbia University 2019 Information For Current Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Employers