Skip to main content SMU Explore SMU Academics Undergraduate Admission Student Affairs About News Athletics Events Calendar Bush Center Prospective Students Current Students Alumni Faculty & Staff Apply to SMUGIVE NOW Meadows School of the Arts Areas of Study Admissions About Menu Search Meadows School of the Arts The Movement Arts Entrepreneurship Arts Entrepreneurship Arts Entrepreneurship Minor in Arts Entrepreneurship Arts Entrepreneurship Blog Arts Entrepreneurship Resources Arts Entrepreneurship Youtube Channel Frequently Asked Questions FACE: First-Year Arts Community Experience Student Web Presence Requirement Market Your Event at SMU and in DFW Market Your Event at SMU and in DFW SMU Meadows has a number of channels to help get the word out about student initiatives. Students are encouraged to use as many of these resources as they can! Many are "self-service" and require only a small amount of that time and effort. There are also a number of arts publications in the Dallas area that allow event submissions, as well as e-zines and blogs that are always looking for interesting stories. Read more Frequently Asked Questions Have questions? See our Frequently Asked Questions section. Arts Entrepreneurship Arts entrepreneurs create. While creating opportunities, jobs, culture, products and services, they help drive our economy. Meadows Arts Entrepreneurship students are taught to know and grow their audience and customer base and to serve heroically as they create. Whether used to create a for-profit business, a nonprofit or a "business of one," arts entrepreneurship techniques will increase artists’ chances of making a living in the arts. Mission The Division of Arts Management and Arts Entrepreneurship at SMU seeks to equip its creative students with entrepreneurial skills to amplify their chances of creating sustainable income and to serve as the principal driving force of their own careers throughout their lives. On their own, neither artistic nor entrepreneurial techniques are enough to sustain a career in the arts. But when both are developed simultaneously, students dramatically increase their chances of developing their professional opportunities and of consistently working through personally meaningful pursuits. Arts Entrepreneurship Blog Stay up to date on the latest trends, topics, and resources in arts entrepreneurship with our blog, curated by Jim Hart, Director of Arts Entrepreneurship at SMU. Read the blog FACE: First-Year Arts Community Experience From year one, Meadows students are engaging in collaborative concepts, community learning and the Meadows Mindset. In the FACE (First-Year Arts Community Experience) class, artists at Meadows learn to work together and find common ground among different forms of artistry. The class also serves to develop the students’ network and build relationships that can last a lifetime. FACE is Ignite/Arts Dallas Director, Clyde Valentín and other from across the Meadows disciplines. Students also meet local and national professionals and gain real-world insight into what it means to be a working, collaborative artist. Arts Entrepreneurship Resources You can find articles, journals and other material relevant to the movement of arts entrepreneurship, in addition to a list of tools that arts entrepreneurs often find useful, on our website. Read more Minor in Arts Entrepreneurship at SMU The minor in arts entrepreneurship at the Meadows School of the Arts provides an overview of how to think entrepreneurially and how to develop and launch a new arts venture for either a for-profit or nonprofit enterprise. It includes course topics such as Developing an Arts Venture Plan and Attracting Capital: Donors, Investors, and Public Funds. Learn more about the minor Student Web Presence Requirement SMU Meadows students can view requirements, instructions, resources and more about building their online presence as an artist. This is a key starting point toward artists being able to market themselves and their art, and students are expected to participate throughout their time at SMU. Meadows School of the Arts Meadows School of the Arts 6101 Bishop Dallas, Texas 75205 214-768-2000 Mailing Address: P.O. Box 750356 Dallas, Texas 75275-0356 Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkedIn Apply Now Visit Us Back to top © Southern Methodist University, PO Box 750100, Dallas, TX 75275 Areas of Study Advertising Art Art History Arts Management & Arts Entrepreneurship CCPA Creative Computation Dance Film & Media Arts Journalism Music Theatre Admissions Undergraduate Admissions Graduate Admissions Scholarships And Financial Aid Internships & Collaborations Visit Meadows Contact Meadows Admission Dual Admission About A Statement of Our Values Mission History Message From The Dean Dean's Executive Council Student Academic Services Academic Affairs Contact SMU Meadows Faculty Directory Faculty/Staff Bio Submission Form Facilities Resources Employment Meadows Graduate Student Council Site Map Report a Web Problem News and Events Art History After Hours Virtual Season Subscribers News Featured Media Our Calendar Performing Arts Season Music Recitals Events Newsletter Meadows Events Parking Directions & Public Transportation Meadows Recognition Ceremony The Movement Mission Ignite Arts Dallas SMU DataArts Meadows Prize Arts Entrepreneurship International Opportunities Interdisciplinary Studies Research and Creativity Alumni Submit Your Information Alumni News Alumni in the Media Alumni on LinkedIn Support Meadows Contact Development The Meadows Scholars Program Meadows Gala Apply NowVisit UsGive Menu Search Search Submit Menu Search