Skip navigation Global Brown Research & Curriculum Global Engagement International Programs Programs & Initiatives Community & Support About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life Information for Current Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors menu Brown University About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life Information for Current Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Search Global Global Brown Research & Curriculum Global Engagement International Programs Programs & Initiatives Community & Support Office of Global Engagement Planning Your Global Activity Studying, working, interning, or conducting research abroad requires careful planning and access to reliable sources of information. Whether you are a student, staff, or faculty member, heading to a familiar area of the globe or embarking on an entirely new opportunity, we strongly recommend that you familiarize yourself with the following information: For students, faculty, staff: Register your international travel in TravelSafe. Review Brown’s Insurance Office page on International Travel Information Register with International SOS, Brown's international medical and security emergency assistance provider. Ensure your health insurance policy will cover you while abroad or consider purchasing international health insurance through Gallagher Global Assistance. Visit the U.S. State Department website for country specific information and postings of travel advisories Make an appointment with your doctor or local travel clinic to determine what, if any, vaccinations you may need to ensure your health and safety during your travels. The Brown Medicine Travel Clinic at The Miriam Hospital is a great resource in the Providence area If you are a U.S. citizen, sign up for the Smart Traveler Enrollment Program. If you are a foreign national, register with your local consulate or embassy in the country in which you will be staying Brown University: Guide to Booking Travel with FCm Travel Solutions The following, most comprehensively-sanctioned countries will require advance planning and coordination with our Export Control office: Cuba, Iran, North Korea, Sudan, Syria, and Crimea Region of the Ukraine. Contact the Export Control Officer as soon as you anticipate travel to one of these countries. If you are hand-carrying or shipping any tangible research items or materials abroad, contact Brown’s Export Control Officer for an export control review. Please make contact well in advance of your planned travel; if an export license is required, acquiring a license can take upwards of 30 days. Visit Brown’s export control website for more information on export controls and international travel. For students: Visit the OIP website to look into study abroad options Explore internship opportunities through Brown’s CareerLAB and BrownConnect OGE Section Submenu About Us Global Partnerships Grant Opportunities Planning Your Global Activity International Education Trends News & Events University-wide Policies for International Activities Brown Global Voices Twitter Facebook LinkedIn Top Destinations Graduate School Alpert Medical School School of Public Health School of Engineering Resources A to Z Index Career Opportunities Make a Gift Brown University Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-1000 Map & Directions Social Media Dashboard Contact Us / Accessibility Giving to Brown