Skip to main content Search form Search Information For Current Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Employers Contact Give About Search Menu Public Health Now News Events Publications Topics Student Voices Celebrating the Centennial Our Work to Address COVID-19 Columbia Public Health Magazine Academics Departments Degrees Course Directory Calendar Policy & Procedures Office of Education Research Featured Research Global Health Centers Programs Grants & Awards Corporate Partnerships People Our Faculty Current Students Friends and Supporters Partners Alumni Become a Student Meet Our Faculty Life & Community Degree Finder How to Apply Career Services More Information Master of Public Health Degree Programs Certificate Program Core Curriculum Search You are here Home Public Health Now Events Winter Storm Update/Impacts to Campus and Services Last Updated 12:50pm Fri May 6 See Coronavirus Updates for information on campus protocols. The impact of exposures to chemical and non-chemical stressors on birth outcomes and neurodevelopment in a vulnerable culturally diverse population NIEHS P30 Center Seminar Series 12:00 pm 1:00 pm Thursday 16 June 2022 RSVP Add to Calendar: Google Calendar Outlook Email Add to Calendar: Google Calendar Outlook Allan Rosenfield Building, 722 West 168th St. 1102 Featuring: Maureen Lichtveld, MD, MPH Dean of the Graduate School of Public Health, Professor of Environmental and Occupational Health, and Jonas Salk Chair in Population Health at the University of Pittsburgh Event Kind: Seminar Series Organizer: Department of Environmental Health Sciences Invitation Limited to: Open to the Columbia Community Website: Learn More Learn More The Caribbean Consortium for Research in Environmental and Occupational Health assesses the impact of chemical- and non-chemical stressors on birth outcomes and neurodevelopment in an environmental epidemiological cohort study of 1200 mother/child dyads. Highest pesticide levels (2,4D; pyrethroids), were found in agriculturally rich areas. Blood Pb and Hg levels in Interior women significantly exceeded CDC and EPA action levels. High Pb levels were significantly associated with PTB and low Apgar score (LAS). High perceived stress was significantly associated with LAS and LBW. Cognitive scores were lower for children of mothers with high perceived stress. Motor domains were negatively impacted by mothers with severe depression. Maternal low education levels were associated with lower cognitive, fine motor, and receptive language scores. Children with maternal blood Pb â‰¥ 3.5 Âµg/dL had significantly lower scores in receptive and expressive language domains. Maternal Blood Hg levels â‰¥ 3.5 ug/L were associated with elevated ASD risk. Contact: Carolina Montes Garcia cm3341 [at] cumc [dot] columbia [dot] edu Return To Calendar Upcoming Events Wednesday 1 June episummer@columbia Friday 3 June Release Webinar for the National Academy of Medicine's Global Roadmap for Health Longevity Friday 3 June COVID-19: From Causes to Consequences Hosted by The Columbia Connection Find out about upcoming events Columnbia Mailman Connect with Us Public Health Now News Events Publications Topics Student Voices Academics Departments Degrees Course Directory Calendar Policy & Procedures Office of Education Research Featured Research Global Health Centers Programs Grants & Awards Corporate Partnerships People Our Faculty Current Students Friends and Supporters Partners Alumni Become a Student Meet Our Faculty Life & Community Degree Finder How to Apply Career Services More Information Columbia University Mailman School of Public Health | 722 West 168th St. NY, NY 10032 Site Map Privacy Columbia University Irving Medical Center Copyright © Columbia University 2019 Information For Current Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Employers