Accessibility Options: Skip to Content Skip to Search Skip to footer Office of Disability Services Request Assistance 305-284-2374 Display: Default High Contrast University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Apply About UM Schools School of Architecture College of Arts & Sciences Miami Herbert Business School School of Communication School of Education & Human Development College of Engineering School of Law Rosenstiel School of Marine & Atmospheric Science Miller School of Medicine Frost School of Music School of Nursing & Health Studies The Graduate School Division of Continuing & International Education Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Search Tools People Search Class Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Search UM (Mobile) Apply Apply About UM Schools Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Academics Admissions Student Life Research UHealth Athletics Tools Popular Links Coronavirus Information News@TheU People Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement Home Search Home Registration and Records Billing and Payment Financial Aid 'Cane Card Related Services What is 'Canes Central? Mission and Standards Meet the Team Contact Us Get Help With ... Forms Submit a Case Contact Us 5 Ways to Connect Directions and Parking Home What is 'Canes Central? Get Help With ... Forms Submit a Case Contact Us Student Log in Search Home Registration and Records Billing and Payment Financial Aid 'Cane Card Related Services What is 'Canes Central? Mission and Standards Meet the Team Contact Us Get Help With ... Forms Submit a Case Contact Us 5 Ways to Connect Directions and Parking Student Log in Important Financial Aid Update Starting Thursday, May 19, 2022, you must complete the new e-consent process. Click here to learn more. Important Financial Aid Update Starting Thursday, May 19, 2022, you must complete the new e-consent process. Click here to learn more. NEED HELP? 1 Help With ... 2 Submit Case 3 Contact Us NEED HELP? 1 Help With ... 2 Submit Case 3 Contact Us Excellence in Institutional Efficiency The University of Miami's Service & Experience Excellence, 'Canes Central, and Information Technology teams were named the recipient of the "Excellence in Institutional Efficiency" award at the 2022 Salesforce Education Summit. This award was voted on by the educational community, and the University of Miami was recognized as best in class for it's use of Salesforce technology to improve the student experience through all 'Canes Central operations and a new, multi-office Case Management Initiative pilot. Truly a team effort! Student-Centered Service Welcome to ’Canes Central, where you can access core business operations—registration and records, billing and payment, financial aid, and 'Cane Card—in an easy, efficient, and centralized way. You can search for information under Get Help With…, open a virtual ticket by Submitting a Case, walk in, schedule an appointment, or contact us by phone. No matter which method you choose, we are eager to answer your questions and provide you with world-class service. Registration and Records Billing and Payment Financial Aid 'Cane Card Related Services 5 Ways to Connect Online Knowledge Articles Featured Knowledge Article Can I get additional financial aid to cover my expenses if I move from on-campus housing to off-campus housing? Important Links Academic Calendars Don't miss upcoming dates and deadlines for the upcoming academic cycle. This includes graduate and undergraduate dates, deadlines, and exam schedules. Academic Bulletin The Academic Bulletin provides program information for degrees and associated majors and minors, including course descriptions for undergraduate and graduate students. Campus Map Find your way around the University by visiting our Campus Maps page for the Coral Gables, marine, and medical campuses. Parking & Transportation Find information about campus transportation on foot, bicycle, bus, train and more, including details about campus parking locations. EVENTS CARES Act / HEERF Funding Learn about the Coronavirus Aid, Relief, and Economic Security (CARES) Act and the Higher Education Emergency Relief Fund (HEERF) at the University of Miami. Click Here Communications Review all 'Canes Central communications, including Elevate Your Game, Beat the Rush!, Director's Corner, and Course Highlights Click Here U MIAMI ON: Loan Revision Calculator Use This Tool to Adjust Your Loans The Final Chapter We hope you enjoyed our Waitlist vs. Swap series! Moving From On-Campus to Off-Campus? Impact on Aid for Undergraduate Students Final Exam Schedule Review the final exam schedule and policy because final exams are just around the corner! University of Miami Coral Gables, FL 33124 305-284-2211 'Canes Central Harold Long Jr. and H.T. Smith Student Services Building, 1st Floor 1307 Stanford Drive Coral Gables, FL 33146 (305) 284-IBIS (4247) (305) 284-IBIS (4247) 'Canes Central 'Cane Card FInancial Assistance: Graduate/Law Financial Assistance: Undergraduate Registrar Student Accounts Tools and Resources Academic Calendar Blackboard Canelink People Search Student Employment UM Network UM Homepage UM Culture News@TheU Hurricanesports Graduate Admission Law Admission Undergraduate Admission Visit Campus Map Parking & Transportation Copyright: 2022 University of Miami. All Rights Reserved. Emergency Information Privacy Statement & Legal Notices