Navigate Search Social Moody Prospective Students Prospective Students Degrees Offered Graduate Admissions Guide Application Deadlines Graduate School Resources International Applicants Diversity Visit SMU Current Students Current Students Forms and Policies Graduation Graduate Writing Center Graduate Student Lounge Career Development Student Services Events Events Events Calendar Orientation Professional Development Research Days Three Minute Thesis Student Life Funding Funding Ph.D. Fellows Ph.D. Health Insurance Graduate Student Travel Grant Dedman Graduate Student Assembly About About Mission and History Moody Foundation Gift Charter Administrative Handbook Dean's Office Messages from the Dean Graduate Council Graduate Student Advisory Board Contact Us Admissions Contacts Blog Thinking About Studying at SMU? Welcome! Southern Methodist University is a private, research-driven institution focused on providing innovative, interdisciplinary, and impactful studies. Located in the international city of Dallas, TX, our graduate students get to live and learn in one of the 10 best business locations in the U.S. according to Fortune magazine. The Moody School of Graduate and Advanced Studies, in partnership with five of SMU's Colleges and Schools, offers 32 doctoral degrees and over 120 master's degrees in addition to several professional degrees. These programs help our students pursue their passions and make significant contributions in their academic fields and beyond. Learn more about graduate study at SMU by browsing the resources below! Degrees Offered Application Deadlines Guide to Ph.D. Programs Graduate School Resources Fellowships & Funding Guide to Graduate Admissions International Applicants Visit SMU Not the information you're looking for? If these resources don't answer your questions, feel free to request more information to get connected with your specific graduate program of interest or reach out to the graduate admissions team at one of our five colleges and schools. Read the Latest Stories on our Blog - Advancing The Field © Southern Methodist University The Moody School of Graduate & Advanced Studies | P.O. Box 0240, Dallas, TX 75275-0240 Contact Admission Graduate News About Us