COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW Advanced Education in General Dentistry Section Menu AEGD Home About AEGD Program How to Apply Delta Dental of Kansas Dental Clinic College of Health Professions Home Licensed Dentist, Faculty / Staff Directory Contact Us Our dental clinic provides comprehensive, affordable dental care. We are open to the public and accepting new patients. Learn about our services The Advanced Education in General Dentistry (AEGD) Program at Wichita State is a one-year, postdoctoral education program for dentists. The program operates the Delta Dental of Kansas Dental Clinic, offering patients dental services that include emergency care, root canals, extractions, gum disease treatment, implants, crowns and bridges, fillings, dentures, tooth whitening and bleaching, bonding and veneers. How to Apply Delta Dental Clinic Contact Us Advanced Education in General Dentistry The Advanced Education in General Dentistry (AEGD) Program at Wichita State University is a one-year, postdoctoral education program that offers dentists the opportunity for advanced comprehensive clinical experience. Our program is designed to increase your knowledge and clinical capabilities in preparation for private practice. Our state-of-the-art clinical facility allows you the experience of providing patient care in a group practice environment. The comprehensive care provided by a resident ranges from basic restorations to placement and restoration of dental implants. Supported by a faculty of experienced general dentists and specialists, you will receive the education and training needed to become a clinical leader in general dentistry. » Learn more about the AEGD program Social Media Links / News AEGD Facebook AEGD Twitter CHP Facebook CHP Twitter WSU NEWS AEGD Program Director Dr. Dean Elledge won dentist of the year AEGD Program Director Dr. Dean Elledge was presented with the Year Award by the Wichita District Dental Society. Dr. Elledge is a prominent colleague, mentor and teacher in the dental community. His specialties include implantology and prosthodontics, and he is the only licensed prosthodontist in the area. Frequently Asked Questions About AEGD About AEGD Dental Clinic Admissions Curriculum Interprofessional Education WSU Dental Hygiene Clinic WSU Speech-Language-Hearing Clinic 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©