Skip to main content Toggle subitems Main navigation Meet Princeton Toggle sub-items In Service of Humanity Facts & Figures History Honors & Awards Contact Us Visit Us Our Faculty Our Students Our Alumni Our Staff Our Leadership Academic Freedom and Free Expression Academics Toggle sub-items Studying at Princeton Library Areas of Study Humanities Social Sciences Engineering Natural Sciences Advising Academic Calendar Course Tools Learning Abroad Career Development Continuing Education Innovative Learning Research Toggle sub-items Engineering & Applied Science Humanities Natural Sciences Social Sciences Interdisciplinary Approach Dean for Research Office External Partnerships Facilities & Labs One Community Toggle sub-items Lifelong Connections Student Life Arts & Culture Athletics Living in Princeton, N.J. Housing & Dining Activities & Organizations Cultural & Affinity Groups Health & Wellness Religious Life Serving the Public Good Families Admission & Aid Toggle sub-items Affordable for All About Financial Aid Current Undergraduate Financial Aid Undergraduate Admission Graduate Admission For International Students Utility menu News Events Work at Princeton Services & Resources Work-Life Balance Links for Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Giving Search Sites & People × Families Overview Princeton Basics Visiting Princeton Connecting With Other Families Finances Emergency Information & Contacts Overview Welcome, parents and families of Princeton students! We are thrilled to have your student at Princeton and to have you join our community. This is an exciting time for you, and we have resources to help ease the transition. You have many opportunities to learn about the University and to participate in campus events, particularly those that showcase Princeton's teaching and research missions. Princeton Basics Photo by Denise Applewhite, Office of Communications Princeton has several websites that can help introduce you to Princeton. Office of the Dean of the College The Office of the Dean of the College website has some useful information just for families. The website includes a month-by-month guide to Princeton, a list of frequently asked questions, and some suggested reading. Tiger Family Hub Families of Princeton undergraduate students have a secure website, Tiger Family Hub, to update contact information, access pertinent University services and systems, and find other family-related resources. This site will be available to families during your student's active Princeton career. Your Path to Princeton If your undergraduate is attending Princeton for the first time, the best resource for information is the Your Path to Princeton website. The site offers students with an overview to the undergraduate experience and helps them forge connections before they arrive on campus. The website includes information about move-in and Orientation, important University resources, and a section for families. Visiting Princeton Photo by Jill Feldman, Office of Communications We look forward to seeing you on campus at move-in, Freshman Families Weekend and Commencement and hopefully some times in between. Detailed information on getting to and around campus is available elsewhere on this website. First-year Families Weekend First-year Families Weekend offers us an opportunity to introduce you to some of the most important aspects of undergraduate life at Princeton. You can immerse yourself in a parallel experience of University life of open houses, lectures, and cultural and athletic events, and there are many opportunities for asking questions about procedures and policies. Just as important as our formal program, the weekend also gives you an opportunity to spend time with your student as they share their college experience with you, introduce you to their friends and show you around our beautiful campus. Photo by Denise Applewhite, Office of Communications Commencement Parents and families of graduating students are invited to celebrate their students' graduation at various Commencement events. Princeton's academic calendar shows Commencement dates several years in advance, and more detailed information is available on the Commencement information website closer to the events. Connecting With Other Families Participate in Educational Programming All parents are members of the Princeton Parents Association and are invited to participate in campus events. You can also participate in a range of educational programs presented by the Alumni Association. Led by senior faculty members, these programs allow families and alumni to enjoy the benefits of a Princeton education while forging friendships within the University community. Princeton Parents Facebook Group Families of Princeton students can connect and share information through the Princeton Parents Facebook group. The group is maintained by and for families of Princeton University students. Join the Group Finances A variety of offices manage financial aid, fees and fundraising. More detailed information is found at the sites below. Financial Aid for Current Students Tuition, Student Billing and Loans Student Meal Plans Annual Giving: Parents Fund Emergency Information & Contacts Guidelines for Emergencies In the event of a campus emergency, the University posts news and other official information as quickly as possible on the main University website, www.princeton.edu. Understandably, families want information about their student quickly; visiting the website is the easiest method for obtaining the most accurate information available. Many of Princeton's emergency procedures are outlined on the emergency management website. 24-Hour Contacts Public Safety: 609-258-1000 University Health Services: 609-258-3141 Emergencies Involving Your Student Every Princeton undergraduate is affiliated with a residential college, which has professionals who also may be able to assist students' families. In an emergency that involves a particular student, family members can contact the appropriate residential college office or the Office of the Dean of Undergraduate Students at 609-258-3055. After hours, the dean-on-call may be reached by calling Public Safety at 609-258-1000. Residential College Office Main Numbers Butler College: 609-258-3474 First College: 609-258-3629 Forbes College: 609-258-6094 Mathey College: 609-258-5717 Rockefeller College: 609-258-3728 Whitman College: 609-258-8900 One Community Lifelong Connections Student Life Arts & Culture Athletics Living in Princeton, N.J. Housing & Dining Activities & Organizations Cultural & Affinity Groups Health & Wellness Religious Life Serving the Public Good Families Contact links Contact Us Accessibility Advanced People Search Media Inquiries Website Feedback Visiting links Plan a Visit Maps & Shuttles Varsity Athletics Giving to Princeton Academic links Library Academic Calendar Student Links Faculty & Staff Links Footer social media Facebook Twitter Instagram Snapchat LinkedIn YouTube Social Media Directory Equal Opportunity and Nondiscrimination at Princeton University: Princeton University believes that commitment to principles of fairness and respect for all is favorable to the free and open exchange of ideas, and the University seeks to reach out as widely as possible in order to attract the ablest individuals as students, faculty, and staff. In applying this policy, the University is committed to nondiscrimination on the basis of personal beliefs or characteristics such as political views, religion, national or ethnic origin, race, color, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity or expression, pregnancy, age, marital or domestic partnership status, veteran status, disability, genetic information and/or other characteristics protected by applicable law in any phase of its education or employment programs or activities. In addition, pursuant to Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 and supporting regulations, Princeton does not discriminate on the basis of sex in the education programs or activities that it operates; this extends to admission and employment. Inquiries about the application of Title IX and its supporting regulations may be directed to the Assistant Secretary for Civil Rights, Office for Civil Rights, U.S. Department of Education or to the University's Sexual Misconduct/Title IX Coordinator. See Princeton’s full Equal Opportunity Policy and Nondiscrimination Statement. Princeton University Princeton, NJ 08544 Operator: (609) 258-3000 © 2022 The Trustees of Princeton University Subfooter links Copyright Infringement Privacy Notice