Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Health Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Our Services Appointments Health Topics Events Forms and Guidelines Our Organization News See All Services What's Open Now Patient Resources Quarantine and Isolation Support Coping Tools Immunization Compliance Top Services Birth Control Education Individual Counseling Primary Care Register with Disability Services Sexual Assault: Get Support STI Testing Support Groups Travel Medicine Urgent Medical Concerns Workshops and Trainings Cost of Service Overview Make an Appointment Same Day Service Emergency and After-hours Support Alcohol Body Image Concerns Marijuana Disabilities Other Drugs HIV Insurance Men's Health Mental Health and Well-Being Anxiety Depression Stress Nutrition Physical Activity Relationships Overview Academic Relationships Friendships Roommates Sexual and Reproductive Health Sleep Transgender and Gender Expansive Health Violence Prevention Prevention Consent What Is Sexual Assault? Supporting a Survivor What Is Relationship Abuse? Stalking What Is Sexual Harassment? Bystander Intervention-Step UP! Women's Health See All Events Sexual Assault Awareness Month Columbia Health Flu Season Information Virtual Naloxone Training About Columbia Health Who We Are Who We Serve Confidentiality, Patient Rights, & Patient Responsibilities Operating Philosophy Video Library Your Feedback Staff Directory Health Units Alice! Health Promotion Counseling and Psychological Services Disability Services Gay Health Advocacy Project (GHAP) Insurance Office Medical Services Sexual Violence Response Columbia Health You are here: Home Staff Directory Tahshann S. Richards Tahshann S. Richards Tahshann Richards, DO, MPH, is a Board-certified Family Physician with a special interest in reproductive health, behavioral health, and osteopathic manipulative medicine. Dr. Richards joined Columbia Health in 2015. She received her medical degree from UMDNJ School of Osteopathic Medicine and completed her Family Medicine residency training at St. Barnabas Hospital. She later served as the Family Medicine Residency Associate Director and as a staff physician in both the Adolescent & Family Medicine Departments. Holding a Master’s Degree in Public Health from The George Washington University and through securing a Teen Pregnancy Prevention grant from the NYC Department of Health, Dr. Richards assisted in developing the Teen Health Center as well as creating youth development programs during her tenure at the Union Community Health Center, Bronx NY. Dr. Richards has served as the Clinical Care Team Leader of the Riverside Practice Team at Columbia Health for the past 2 years. She is the current President of the Empire State Medical Association. Dr. Richards remains committed to improving the overall health of the Columbia University community as well as the health of those living in underserved communities. She enjoys spending time with her family and 14 year old son. Education: D.O., Rowan University School of Osteopathic Medicine M.P.H., George Washington University School of Public Health and Health Services B.A., Colgate University Certifications and Licensure: Board Certified in Family Practice and Osteopathic Manipulative Treatment Licensed to practice medicine in the State of New York Professional Experience: Associate Program Director, St. Barnabas Hospital Family Medicine Residency Program Physician, Union Community Health Center Department of Family Medicine Physician, St. Barnabas Departments of Family Medicine and Adolescent Medicine Awards and Honors: President, Empire State Medical Association, New York Affiliate of the National Medical Association Clinical Care Team Leader, Riverside Practice Group, Columbia Health Memberships: American Osteopathic Association American College of Osteopathic Family Physicians Empire State Medical Association, New York Affiliate of the National Medical Association Senior Physician Contact Info Medical Services, John Jay Hall 519 West 114th Street New York, NY 10027 +1 212 854 7426 https://secure.health.columbia.edu/ Columbia Health Administration Wallach Hall, Suite 125, Mail Code 4202, 1116 Amsterdam Avenue · New York, NY 10027 Phone 212-854-2284 Contact Us [email protected] Internal Use Only Login to Access Follow Us Facebook Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close