Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. Conference & Event Services Conference & Event right arrow down arrow Services right arrow down arrow Conference Planning Event Registration Event Equipment Rental Specialty Lighting Promotional Tabling Weddings Summer Intern Housing Summer Conferences & Camps Catering On-Demand Meeting Rooms Venues right arrow down arrow Tangeman University Center right arrow down arrow Great Hall Rates Meeting Rooms Other Event Spaces Nippert Stadium West Pavilion right arrow down arrow West Pavilion Event Policies West Pavilion Catering right arrow down arrow Corry Street Catering Menu West Pavilion Rates Campus Recreation Center Outdoor Classrooms Athletic Facilities Other Stratford Heights Resources right arrow down arrow COVID-19 For Students For Faculty & Staff For Non-University Clients Event Policies Use of Facilities Catering Guide West Pavilion Event & Catering Guide FAQ Contact Us Request A Space right arrow down arrow 25 Live Instructions Home » About UC » Conference & Event Services » Services » Promotional Tabling Set Navigation title in component Conference Planning Event Registration Event Equipment Rental Specialty Lighting Promotional Tabling Weddings Summer Intern Housing Summer Conferences & Camps Catering On-Demand Meeting Rooms Promotional Tabling There is no better way to introduce your organization to the university community than to set up a promotional table inside the Tangeman University Center or outside on MainStreet! Tabling provides an opportunity for your group to build your presence on campus. Student Organizations and University Departments Groups are able to sell food and beverages, as long as they are homemade and all proceeds are for a charitable group or a donation. If student groups are selling commercial non-food items, CES must be contacted for approval, and a table rental fee of $125 may be accessed. If a group is not sure if their proceeds are charitable, refer to the Sales and Solicitation of Funds university policy 3361:10-51-01. Inside Tabling Inside tabling for informational or philanthropic purposes is available in the Tangeman University Center (TUC) ExpressMart Lobby and TUC Atrium. There are a limited number of table spaces. When tabling inside of TUC, a reservation is required through 25Live on a first-come, first-served basis. You will be provided a 6’ ft table and two chairs. There is no fee for your group to have a promotional table. COVID TUC Indoor Tabling Guidelines: Table and 2 chairs will be provided by TUC. No more than two tabling events at one time. Tables will configured to allow for social distancing. No more than two representatives from an organization/department may be at the table at a time All representatives and visitors to the table must follow all COVID guidelines: 6ft apart Facial coverings No more than 10 people gathering at a time Organization/department must provide hand sanitizer at the table Handouts are permitted, but must be laid on the table for students to grab, no hand to hand exchange is permitted If a crowd starts to gather, it is the Organization/department’s responsibility to disperse the crowd or end the tabling Students Organizations & Departments Reserve through 25Live Outside Tabling Outside tabling does not require a reservation through 25Live, however it is recommended that one is made. A reservation guarantees you a space on MainStreet. COVID Outdoor Tabling Guidelines: Registered Student Organization may use designated locations on campus for tabling, which will be marked with a cling on the ground. See this campus map for details. Tabling spots are first come, first serve and organizations must check in using the QR code found on the ground cling. Complete guidelines for outdoor tabling must be followed. Non-University Clients The daily fee for promotional tabling inside or outside is $260. You will be provided a 6-foot table and two chairs. Requests for additional resources and services such as easels, coat racks, tables and space may increase the cost for each reservation. **At this time, we are unable to allow Non-Unversity Clients to table on campus. non-university clients register for more information Conference & Event Services 513-558-1810 Tangeman University Center, Suite 265 2766 UC MainStreet Cincinnati, OH 45221-0031 event.services@uc.edu UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati Conference & Event Services 513-558-1810 Tangeman University Center, Suite 265 2766 UC MainStreet Cincinnati, OH 45221-0031 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top