Skip to main content Harvard University 1 site notification Latest COVID Information Search Search Quick Links Find a Person A to Z Index Menu Academics Academics Explore all programs Browse all of our undergraduate concentrations, graduate degrees, and professional certificates. Harvard Schools Academics Visit each School for information on admissions and financial aid. Explore more Harvard College Harvard Business School Harvard Division of Continuing Education Harvard Divinity School Harvard Faculty of Arts and Sciences Harvard Graduate School of Arts and Sciences Harvard Graduate School of Design Harvard Graduate School of Education Harvard John A. Paulson School of Engineering and Applied Sciences Harvard Kennedy School Harvard Law School Harvard Medical School Harvard Radcliffe Institute Harvard School of Dental Medicine Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health Professional and lifelong learning Free online courses More about academics at Harvard Campus Campus Harvard's Campus Get tickets to our next game, hours and locations for our libraries and museums, and information about your next career move. Libraries Campus Explore our libraries Arnold Arboretum Horticultural Library Baker Library and Special Collections Biblioteca Berenson Botany Libraries Cabot Science Library Countway Library Dumbarton Oaks Research Library Ernst Mayr Library Fine Arts Library Frances Loeb Library Fung Library Gutman Library Harvard Divinity School Library Harvard Film Archive Harvard Law School Library Harvard Map Collection Harvard University Archives Harvard-Yenching Library HKS Library and Knowledge Services Houghton Library Lamont Library Loeb Music Library Robbins Library of Philosophy Schlesinger Library on the History of Women in America Tozzer Library Widener Library Wolbach Library Woodberry Poetry Room Museums Campus Explore our museums The Arnold Arboretum Carpenter Center for the Visual Arts Collection of Historical Scientific Instruments Graduate School of Design Exhibitions Harvard Art Museums Harvard Forest Harvard Museum of Natural History The Harvard Museum of the Ancient Near East Harvard Museums of Science and Culture Harvard University Herbaria Mineralogical and Geological Museum Museum of Comparative Zoology The Peabody Museum of Archaeology and Ethnology Warren Anatomical Museum Athletics Work at Harvard Events Commencement Campus Harvard Commencement for the Class of 2022 Harvard Commencement for the Classes of 2020 & 2021 In Focus In Focus Explore and understand the world with Harvard In Focus is a curated examination of Harvard's research, scholarly work, and community. Recent topics include: Commencement 2022 In Focus Celebrating the Graduates Highlighting the accomplishments and celebrating the bright futures of Harvard’s most recent grads Meet this year's graduates What's inside? The Harvard Gazette's coverage of this year's Commencement Explore each School's events Mental Health In Focus Mental Health Awareness Month To commemorate Mental Health Awareness Month, the Harvard community is exploring how we cope with, manage, and understand mental health and how it impacts our lives. View the feature What's inside? Is a mobile app as good as a therapist? Bipolar breakthrough Climate Solutions In Focus Climate Solutions Faculty and students from across the Harvard community are working on ways to address climate change and its effects. Explore these adaptations What's inside? Zero-waste architecture Better batteries inspired by a BLT Explore the In Focus archives Visit Visit Visit Harvard Ideas and assistance for your trip to our campus. Tours Maps and Directions About About About Harvard Information on how Harvard is structured, explore our long history, and discover our extended community. History of Harvard About History of Harvard Harvard is perhaps best-known because of its enduring history of innovation in education. But even die-hard Harvard buffs are not likely to know all of these Harvard firsts and historical snippets. Learn more History timeline Nobel Laureates Honorary Degrees Harvard Shields Leadership and Governance About Learn about our Leadership Officers and Deans Harvard Corporation Board of Overseers University Professorships Diversity and Inclusion Endowment Harvard in the Community Harvard in the World News News The Harvard Gazette Official news from Harvard University about science, medicine, art, campus life, University issues, and broader national and global concerns. Trending News Stories News Read more news Jacinda Ardern’s forceful reminder: Democracies can die New Zealand Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern delivers warning on erosion of trust in her Commencement address, urging social media reforms and calling on individuals to reject tribalism. Harvard awards seven honorary degrees During today’s Commencement ceremony in Tercentenary Theatre, Harvard will recognize seven with an honorary degree. Humans hot, sweaty, natural-born runners Hairless, clawless, and largely weaponless, ancient humans used the unlikely combination of sweatiness and relentlessness to gain the upper hand over their faster, stronger, generally more dangerous animal prey, Harvard Anthropology Professor Daniel Lieberman said Thursday (April 12). Pursuit of joy starts with truth, Wu tells graduates Class Day speaker Michelle Wu ’07, J.D. ’12, urged the class of 2022 to hold fast to Harvard’s founding motto “veritas,” or truth. Sign up for the Daily Gazette Navigation Quick Links A to Z Index Find a Person Events Media Relations Alumni Give Now Harvard University Close Harvard University Celebrating the Graduates Join the Harvard Alumni Day Celebration livestream on June 3 at 1:30 p.m. ET Looking for Commencement information? Ceremony livestreams School events Explore the 2022 Commencement Democracies need defending New Zealand Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern used the Commencement address as call to action on the erosion of trust, the need for social media reform, and the end of tribalism. Stories from the Yard Parents, friends, and proud graduates celebrated a hard-earned Commencement. Class Day Boston Mayor Michelle Wu urged graduates to hold fast to Harvard’s founding motto of veritas. Baccalaureate In his address, President Bacow urged seniors to embrace the unexpected. ROTC ceremony Eight cadets and midshipmen in training were sworn into the armed forces. Meet the graduates Meet the Class of 2020 Meet the Class of 2021 Jonathan Ji At Harvard Divinity School, Jonathan had the opportunity to participate in research with faculty members he had admired before coming to the School. Learn more about Jonathan Nicole Beck Nicole applied lessons from her time playing NCAA lacrosse into “the team sport of surgery,” as she pursued her degree in dental medicine. Learn more about Nicole Marissa Sumathipala Marissa had to give up her Olympic figure-skating dreams after suffering a concussion, but the experience led her to study neuroscience at Harvard College. Learn more about Marissa Read more profiles from Harvard Divinity School Read more profiles from the Harvard School of Dental Medicine Read more stories from Harvard College Kim Horsnell Kim used a short-term residency in Boston to explore the Extension School’s offerings. She ended up with a master’s degree and a career change focused on counseling transgender children and adolescents. Learn more about Kim Brandon Alexander Anthony Brandon hopes to launch a company that helps health systems design better services for patients of color, LGBTQ+ patients, and other marginalized groups. Learn more about Brandon Jesselina Rana A social entrepreneur from Nepal, Jesselina came to Harvard Law School to focus on human rights and women’s health. Learn more about Jesselina Read more profiles from the Harvard Extension School Read more stories from the Harvard Chan School of Public Health Read more profiles from Harvard Law School More from Commencement week Explore more Commencement coverage on The Harvard Gazette 2020 & 2021 Commencement U.S. Attorney General Merrick Garland made a plea for more to embrace public service for part of their lives to help defend the nation’s democratic institutions. Stories from the Yard The Classes of 2020 and 2021 returned to campus to celebrate their long-awaited in-person Commencement. A look at the celebration Photos capture the pride, triumph, and hope of all three Commencement Classes. 2022 Radcliffe Medal In the keynote discussion for Radcliffe Day, Sherrilyn Ifill issued a call to resist nihilism and get involved. PBK Literary Exercises Theda Skocpol urged the 2022 Phi Beta Kappa Class to confront “the troubles of our time” and fight to defend the public good. Alexandra Schultz Alexandra’s research into ancient libraries explores a fuller, more accurate intellectual history, one that puts less emphasis on patriarchy and aristocratic philanthropy. Learn more about Alexandra Vincent Bain Vincent is bringing the knowledge and experience he gained from his master’s degree in bioethics to his new assignment as a chaplain bioethicist at Walter Reed National Military Medical Center. Learn more about Vincent Celestina Lee At the Graduate School of Education, Celestina learned that early education is as much about emotional support as it is about the lesson plan. Learn more about Celestina Read more stories from the Graduate School of Arts and Sciences Read more profiles from Harvard Medical School Read more profiles from the Graduate School of Education Ed Bayes Ed is working at the intersection of technology, design, and policy by exploring how artificial intelligence can tackle public policy issues. Learn more about Ed Lucy Luo Born and raised in Hunan, China, Lucy’s parents instilled in her a love of learning and a curious mindset, which led to her interest in international development. Learn more about Lucy Drew Keller Drew pursued a business degree so he could help companies transition their focus from shareholder returns to positive social and environmental change. Learn more about Drew Read more stories from the Graduate School of Design and more profiles from the School of Engineering and Applied Sciences Read more profiles from Harvard Kennedy School Read more profiles from Harvard Business School School events Harvard College and the graduate and professional Schools host additional commencement events unique to their communities. Harvard College Harvard Business School Harvard Divinity School Harvard Graduate School of Design Harvard Law School Harvard Medical School Harvard School of Dental Medicine Harvard Graduate School of Arts and Sciences Harvard Extension School Harvard Graduate School of Education Harvard Kennedy School Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health Security & Brand Report Copyright Infringement Report Security Issue Trademark Notice Website Accessibility Digital Accessibility Privacy Statement Get In Touch Contact Harvard Maps & Directions Jobs © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube 0:00 0:00