Skip to main content UCF News | Stories of Impact + Innovation | Orlando, FL Tuesday, May 31, 2022 88ºF Mostly cloudy Sections × UCF News | Stories of Impact + Innovation | Orlando, FL Arts Business Colleges Community Health Opinions Science & Tech Sports Student Life Tuesday, May 31, 2022 88ºF Mostly cloudy Rosen College of Hospitality Management News Turning Events into Careers UCF’s new master’s program in event leadership will bring a world of experience to the epicenter of this fast-growing industry. 2022 UCF Medical Grad Putting Service at Forefront in Medicine As part of the UCF College of Medicine’s 10th graduating class, Michael Chiang ’20MS is the first Knight to earn a dual degree in medicine and hospitality. New Tool from UCF-led Team Shows Homeowners and Renters the True Cost of Disasters The tool can provide disaster readiness reports for 13.3 million addresses in 196 counties along the Gulf of Mexico — including all of Florida, and parts of Mississippi, Alabama, Louisiana and Texas. Knights Do That: Where Medicine and Hospitality Intersect Michael Chiang ’20MS, the first UCF student to graduate with a master’s in hospitality and a M.D. in emergency medicine, shares how he plans to use both degrees in the future and the adversity he’s faced along the way. ﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿ 2022 UCF Founders’ Day Honorees The annual celebration honors the academic achievements of our faculty members and students. Student Research Week Kicks off With Seed Funding Program Presentations For the first two days of Student Research Week, which starts Monday, March 28, students will present on 37 active research projects. 26 Exemplary Students Awarded 2022 Order of Pegasus Awarded each spring, the Order of Pegasus is UCF’s most prestigious student honor. Student Research Week Kicks off March 28 with a Whole New Look and Feel After decades of following the same format, Research Week has been reimagined to enhance the student experience. Recipients of the 2022 Seed Funding Program Announced The program awarded a total of $1 million to 32 teams. This is the third year the program has been available to UCF faculty and researchers. Faculty Honored at UCF’s 3rd Authors Celebration Forty-seven faculty members were honored for their works, which ranged from novels to textbooks. UCF in the News Sea Turtle Nesting Season off to a Strong Start on Florida’s Atlantic Beaches Orlando Sentinel UCF Calls for More Research Spending, Faculty and Fundraising in Latest Strategic Plan Orlando Business Journal Where No Ice Was Seen Before: UCF Team Designs Lunar Satellite Tools to Hunt for Water Orlando Sentinel UCF, Orlando Health Testing Medical Technology That Could Help Detect Blood Clots Faster WOFL Fox 35 View All Stories about UCF Events at UCF May 31 Alcoholics Anonymous 7:00 pm - 8:00 pm Jun 1 Application Deadline: Peer Mentor for Summer Research Academy 12:00 am - 11:45 pm Jun 1 Application Deadline: Summer Research Academy 9:00 am - 10:00 pm View All Events Resources About UCF Today For the Media News Archive Pegasus Magazine Tell Us What You Think Suggest a Story University of Central Florida About UCF Contact Us Faculty Online Degrees Policies Privacy Notice Public Records Regulations Report a Concern UCF News 4000 Central Florida Blvd. Orlando, Florida, 32816 | 407.823.2000 © University of Central Florida