Skip to main content Skip to main content DIVISION of ENROLLMENT SERVICES Skip to main content &nbsp;<b>Student Quicklinks</b> Student Quicklinks &nbsp;<b>Faculty/Staff Quicklinks</b> Faculty/Staff Quicklinks Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. Navigate Search Skip to main content Registrar Academic Advising Academic Ceremonies Academic Ceremonies Fall Rotunda Passage May Commencement Opening Convocation December Rotunda Recessional December Commencement Spring Rotunda Passage Honors Convocation May Baccalaureate Service May Rotunda Recessional May Commencement Degree Honors Degree Honors Inserts Graduation & Diploma Services About Us Academic Records Academic Records Degree Honors Enrollment Rules Honor Roll Progress Grades Viewing Your Grades GPA Calculator Graduation Honors Inserts Transcript Requests Transfer Credit Legal Process Enrollment Information Enrollment Information Fall Enrollment Information Spring Enrollment Information Summer Enrollment Information Master of Science in Data Science Program Waitlist Guidelines Common Curriculum Online Course Evaluation Course Listings Help Enrollment Policy Exception Frequently Asked Questions Final Exam Schedule The General Education Curriculum Grade Posting Schedule University Curriculum View Textbooks Online Contact Us Contact Us Virtual Office Information SMU Links SMU Links Site Index About SMU Access and Equity Administration Bursar Calendars Campus Directory Clery Report Enrollment Services Financial Aid Giving Libraries Maps Meadows Museum Information Technology Registrar Search Student Affairs Webmail ☰ Class Schedule and Enrollment Information Spring Enrollment Information Spring Enrollment Information and Steps Spring 2022 Enrollment Information and Steps 2022 Spring Term Calendar Please visit the 2021-22 Academic Calendar for various dates and deadlines. Continuing Student Enrollment Begins Monday, Nov 1, 2021 by Enrollment Appointment Login towww.my.smu.edu, Student Dashboard, Enrollment, Enrollment Dates, Select Term to see enrollment appointment. Open Enrollment Begins Saturday, Nov 20, 2021, at 12:00 a.m.for the following: Visiting students (non-degree) Readmitted students Continuing non-degree students Enrollment for New UG students Begins when students start meeting with their academic advisor. TBD Payment due for Spring 2022 Visit Bursar’s website Enrollment Steps ALL CONTINUING UNDERGRADUATE STUDENTS, DEDMAN GRADUATE, MEADOWS GRADUATE, SIMMONS GRADUATE, COX GRADUATE (EXCEPT EMBA), PERKINS THEOLOGY, DEDMAN LAW, AND LYLE ENGINEERING GRADUATE (EXCEPT MILITARY AND NTU) STUDENTS Click here for information about the my.SMU Student Dashboard. Check my.SMU https://my.smu.edu for your enrollment appointment time (Manage Classes, Enrollment, Select Term) and any service indicators/holds (Tasks, Holds) which need to be cleared prior to your enrollment. Check my.SMU for course availability at https://my.smu.edu, by using Class Search. For a listing of courses in the General Education Curriculum, click here. For a listing of courses in the University Curriculum, click here. For information about the Common Curriculum, click here. For a copy of a Trial Schedule to assist you with schedule planning, click here. All undergraduate students must meet with an academic adviser prior to enrolling for a term for assistance in planning majors and minors and scheduling courses that will count towards their graduation requirements. Failure to meet with the academic adviser prior to enrolling for a term may result in sanctions. After the initial required advising session for the term, students are encouraged to seek assistance from their academic adviser when considering adding and dropping courses. Students have the final responsibility for the accuracy of their enrollment, the applicability of their courses towards their degree requirements, and their academic performance. Student-Athletes: Must complete a drop form from the athletic department prior to dropping a course. You may obtain a drop form from your athletic academic counselor. This is to review the effects the drop might have on your athletic participation and aid, and advise you on your athletic eligibility. After you complete a drop form, the Director of Admission and Eligibilty for athletics will process the drop for you. The choice to drop a course is yours to make. International Students: If a drop will take you to fewer than 12 hours, you should consult with the International Center. After consultation, the International Office must modify the minimum hours in order for international UG students to drop below 12 hours for the spring or fall term. Failure to maintain full-time hours may result in deportation. Students on Merit or Need Based Financial Aid: If a drop will take you to fewer than 12 hours, you should consult with your financial aid advisor prior to attempting to drop a course. Your financial aid adviser will be able to tell you any effects the drop will have to your aid. After the consultation, you can process a drop through self-service in my.SMU should that be your decision. If you have any questions regarding this procedure or your financial aid, contact your financial aid advisor. All students are to provide the University registrar a current home and mailing address (local), cell number and/or home phone number, and emergency contact. Under the Profile tile on my.SMU, all students must provide accurate information as requested. Missing information wil result in a hold being placed. A Task will be assigned to all currently enrolled students asking him/her to verify/update all personal information. An enrollment hold will be placed at the time this Task is assigned. Once a student completes this Task, then the hold will be removed. University policy requires that all students have current home address, mailing address (local), and telephone information on file as well as a cell number if available. Students may have other address types on file, including a Residence Address where you are currently living (street number, street name, city, state --- a P.O.Box is not valid for this address type). INTERNATIONAL STUDENTS are required to have a home, mailing, and residence address. To update parent addresses, please send an email to records@smu.edu. Obtain Department/Instructor permission before attempting to enroll in a course that requires consent. You must clear all service indicators (holds) prior to enrolling. Some financial holds may not be updated for 24 hours. Decide on the Campus Essentials (arts package, sports package, yearbook), you want to purchase as you enroll for your classes. To purchase Campus Essentials go to my.SMU. (Financial Account, Purchase Campus Essentials). You may enroll from any web-based computer. For web registration instructions, click here. Financial Aid: UNDERGRADUATE students who wish to receive Financial Aid for the 2021-22 academic year must file an 2021-22 FAFSA and 2021-22 CSS Profile. UNDERGRADUATE These forms need to be completed by APRIL 15th for priority consideration. All other requested documents must be filed no later than July 1st. (Includes Verification, Proof of Citizenship, Non Custodial Parent information, etc.); Due to the current economic climate, we are experiencing higher demand for funds.Please respond promptly to any and all Financial Aid requests. GRADUATE students who wish to receive Financial Aid for the 2021-22 academic year must file the 2021-22 FAFSA. ALL STUDENTS:Please check your email frequently for updates or requests for additional information from the Financial Aid Office. Award notifications will be sent to your SMU email account in early June. Please remember all holds must be cleared prior to enrollment. Clear your account. Billing notifications are sent to the student’s SMU email address and to the designated Authorized Payer(s) email address when the bill is available for online viewing through SMUpay, depending on when you enroll. Check your SMU campus e-mail on a regular basis. You may also view your account on-line at my.SMU through SMUpay. Pay your bill account on or before payment due date. Payments may be made online by clicking here. For further information on payment due date, visit the Bursar website. Payments must be posted to your account by the payment due date showing on the bill in order to avoid a late payment fee or monthly 1.5% past due fee. If you have questions concerning your student account or payment, please contact Student Financials at 214-768-3417. For additional information concerning Enrollment, please contact the University Registrar's Office by telephone: 214-768-2442, by fax: 214-768-4772 or by email: registrar@smu.edu. Add/Drop - Spring 2022 Courses may be added/dropped beginning with your enrollment appointment found in the my.SMU Student Dashboard under Enrollment, Enrollment Dates. Please visit the Academic Calendar 2021-22 for start/end dates, last day to add/drop/enroll, last day to drop a course, and last day to withdraw for Spring 2022. Waitlist - Spring 2022 Click for detailed information concerning Waitlist Guidelines and Adding/Dropping Waitlisted Classes. Spring Enrollment Information Spring Enrollment Information and Steps Spring Campus Essentials Spring Class Schedule Information Spring Withdrawal Procedures Student Quicklinks my.SMU Request Transcript Course Catalog Final Exam Schedule University Curriculum Student Records Forms Preferred Name Honor Roll Important Messages to Students Student Appeals and Petitions Student Rights and Responsibilities Syllabus Library Transfer Credit/Equivalency Webpay Master of Science in Data Science Program Faculty/Staff Quicklinks my.SMU Enrollment Reporting Final Exam Schedule Forms Library: SR Forms (Public) Forms Library: SR Forms (Restricted) Important Messages to Faculty Policies and Procedures [Login] SR Policies & Procedures View all DES P&P Procedures- New Course/Prog Room Scheduling Syllabus Library Enrollment and Scheduling - Advanced Users Student Services Quicklinks× Faculty/Staff Quicklinks× Contact Us Maps and Directions Legal Disclosures © Southern Methodist University, PO Box 750100, Dallas, TX 75275 twitter facebook instagram linkedin youtube share