Skip to main content Skip to main navigation Equity, Civil Rights, and Title IX Sexual and Interpersonal Misconduct / Title IX Menu About Us Laura Johnson, Ph.D. Carolyn Hughes Christina Jeong Michael Noble Tracey Tevis Elysa Bucci Melissa Morie Josh Stephens Candace Huskey Mito Diaz-Espinoza, Ph.D External Investigators Title IX Case Management Team Members Policy & Procedures SIM/Title IX Policies Adaptable Resolution Federal Guidelines Key Points Amnesty Definitions Retaliation Confidentiality & Privacy Responsible Employee SB212 Reporting Prevention & Training Workshops and Programs Faculty & Staff Training Student Training Upcoming Events Title IX Training Materials for Title IX Personnel Investigator Training Hearing Officer Training Relevance Training Restorative Justice Training Mediation Training Advanced Title IX Investigator Training Title IX/VAWA Investigator Training Civil Rights/Title IX Sexual Misconduct Investigator Training Training in Restorative Practices and Campus Sexual Harm 2021 Campus Restorative Justice Across Student Affairs 2021 Reporting Resources Social Climate Surveys 2017 Social Climate Survey 2019 Social Climate Survey 2021 Social Climate Survey Baylor>Sexual and Interpersonal Misconduct/Title IX>Policy & Procedures>Federal Guidelines Federal Guidelines New Title IX Regulations On Wednesday, May 6, 2020, the Department of Education’s Office for Civil Rights issued new Title IX regulations that will change the way institutions of higher education (IHEs) must address, investigate and adjudicate issues of sex and gender-based harassment, sexual misconduct, intimate partner violence and stalking. The new regulations are scheduled to go into effect on August 14, 2020. Baylor’s existing Title IX policies are in full compliance with the current regulations. Similar to other IHEs across the country, the University will be required to amend those policies to comply with the new regulations. Baylor has already been reviewing our current policies in anticipation of the new regulations. Now that the regulations have been finalized, we will spend the coming weeks carefully reviewing them and determining the best way to implement these regulations, ensuring we maintain processes that are thorough, equitable and sensitive to the needs of all parties. At this time, Baylor’s Title IX policies for reporting, investigating and adjudicating issues of sex or gender-based harassment remain unchanged, and any existing processes will continue under the current policies in place. We will continue to monitor information and guidance from the Department of Education as we move forward. As always, Baylor University is committed to providing a safe and non-discriminatory learning, living, and working environment for all members of the University community. For more information on the Baylor Title IX Office, visit www.baylor.edu/titleix. Information on how to report sex or gender-based harassment, sexual violence, intimate partner violence or stalking is available here. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 Title IX is a federal civil rights law that prohibits discrimination on the basis of sex against any person in education programs and activities receiving federal funding. Students have the right to pursue an education, including athletic programs, scholarships and other activities, free from sex discrimination, including sexual violence and harassment. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 (20 U.S.C. § 1681 et seq.) requires schools that receive federal financial assistance to take necessary steps to prevent sexual assault on their campuses and to respond promptly and effectively when an assault is reported. Title IV of the 1964 Civil Rights Act This act (42 U.S.C. § 2000c et seq.) also requires public schools to respond to sexual assaults committed against their students. The Clery Act The Jeanne Clery Disclosure of Campus Security Policy and Campus Crime Statistics Act (20 USC § 1092(f)), commonly referred to as the Clery Act, requires colleges and universities that participate in federal financial aid programs to report annual statistics on crime on or near their campuses--including sexual assault and rape and to develop and disseminate prevention policies. VAWA The Violence Against Women Act (VAWA) established federal legal definitions of domestic violence, dating violence, sexual assault and stalking. Campus SaVE The Campus Sexual Violence Elimination Act (Campus SaVE) was enacted in March 2013 and amends the Jeanne Clery Act, creating additional protections for victims of dating violence, domestic violence, sexual assault and stalking, as well as creating more prescriptive requirements for prevention and awareness programs related to these offenses. The University's Title IX Coordinator The Title IX Coordinator coordinates the University's compliance with Title IX and related provisions of the Clery Act (as amended by VAWA). The Title IX Coordinator oversees the University's centralized response to all reports of prohibited conduct to assure consistent implementation of this policy and ensure compliance with federal and state law. The Title IX Coordinator and designated staff will, among other steps: Communicate with all members of the University community regarding applicable law and policy and provide information about how individuals may access reporting and support options. Review applicable University policies to ensure institutional compliance with applicable federal and state law. Monitor the University's administration of its own applicable policies, including record keeping, adherence to timeframes, and other procedural requirements. Conduct training regarding Title IX, related provisions of the Clery Act (as amended by VAWA), and prohibited conduct defined in this policy. Respond to any report regarding conduct that may violate this policy. In this capacity, the Title IX Coordinator shall oversee the investigation and resolution of such alleged misconduct, direct the provision of any remedial and protective measures, and monitor the administration of any request for review of the finding. The Title IX Coordinator may delegate responsibilities under this policy to designated administrators or external professionals, who will have appropriate training and/or experience. When used in this policy, the term Title IX Coordinator may include a Deputy Title IX Coordinator or appropriate designee. The Title IX Coordinator's contact information is: Laura Johnson, Ph.D. Title IX Coordinator Baylor University One Bear Place #97011 Clifton Robinson Tower, Suite 285 Waco, Texas 76798 254-710-8454 TitleIX_Coordinator@baylor.edu www.Baylor.edu/TitleIX Policy & Procedures SIM/Title IX Policies Adaptable Resolution Federal Guidelines Key Points Amnesty Definitions Retaliation Confidentiality & Privacy Responsible Employee SB212 Reporting Title IX Baylor University does not discriminate on the basis of sex or gender in any of its education or employment programs and activities, and it does not tolerate discrimination or harassment on the basis of sex or gender. Clifton Robinson Tower, Suite 285 One Bear Place #97011 Waco, TX 76798 254-710-8454 titleix_coordinator@baylor.edu ReportingTrainingSIM/Title IX PoliciesFAQs General Information Colleges, Schools, Libraries & Research Admissions Administration Gateways For... About Baylor Anonymous Reporting Athletics Ask Baylor Bookstore Calendar Campus Map Directory Give Light Give to Baylor Illuminate Mental Health Resources News Pro Futuris Report It Search Social Media Title IX Baylor Libraries College of Arts & Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work George W. Truett Theological Seminary Graduate School Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Louise Herrington School of Nursing Research at Baylor University Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Engineering & Computer Science School of Music More Academics Undergraduate Admissions goBAYLOR Graduate Admissions Baylor Law School Admissions Social Work Graduate Programs George W. Truett Theological Seminary Admissions Online Graduate Professional Education Virtual Tour Visit Campus Annual Fire Safety and Security Notice Athletics Human Resources Marketing and Communications Office of General Counsel Office of the President Office of the Provost Operations, Finance & Administration Senior Administration Student Life University Advancement Baylor Alumni Faculty & Staff Online Graduate Professional Education Parents Prospective Faculty & Staff Prospective Students Students Copyright © Baylor® University. All rights reserved. Legal Disclosures. Baylor University • Waco, Texas 76798 • 1-800-229-5678 About Us Laura Johnson, Ph.D. Carolyn Hughes Christina Jeong Michael Noble Tracey Tevis Elysa Bucci Melissa Morie Josh Stephens Candace Huskey Mito Diaz-Espinoza, Ph.D External Investigators Title IX Case Management Team Members Policy & Procedures SIM/Title IX Policies Adaptable Resolution Federal Guidelines Key Points Amnesty Definitions Retaliation Confidentiality & Privacy Responsible Employee SB212 Reporting Prevention & Training Workshops and Programs Faculty & Staff Training Student Training Upcoming Events Title IX Training Materials for Title IX Personnel Investigator Training Hearing Officer Training Relevance Training Restorative Justice Training Mediation Training Advanced Title IX Investigator Training Title IX/VAWA Investigator Training Civil Rights/Title IX Sexual Misconduct Investigator Training Training in Restorative Practices and Campus Sexual Harm 2021 Campus Restorative Justice Across Student Affairs 2021 Reporting Resources Social Climate Surveys 2017 Social Climate Survey 2019 Social Climate Survey 2021 Social Climate Survey