Skip to Main Content Brown University News from Brown Site Navigation Featured Events For Journalists Search Menu Brown alumna Jessica Meir looks back at Earth from the International Space Station. Topics News and Events Date February 6, 2020 2020-02-06 Media Contact Kevin Stacey [email protected] 401-863-3766 All News Share Facebook Twitter Linkedin Email Astronaut alumna to chat with Brown students from space Jessica Meir will answer questions from Brown students and community members during a live video downlink from the International Space Station. PROVIDENCE R.I. [Brown University] — NASA astronaut and Brown University alumna Jessica Meir, who is currently orbiting Earth aboard the International Space Station, will chat live with Brown students and members of the greater community via a video downlink on Thursday, Feb 13. The event, part of a yearlong 50th anniversary celebration of Brown’s distinctive Open Curriculum, will take place at 2:30 p.m. in the Solomon Center for Teaching. Tickets are required and are available at no cost. The event will also be streamed live via the University’s website. “As we celebrate the 50th anniversary of Brown's Open Curriculum, Jessica is an inspirational example of how intentional exploration and active partnerships on campus help prepare our alumni for lives of usefulness and reputation,” said Rashid Zia, dean of the College. “We are proud that Jessica can share her story directly with our students and the Brown community as we gather to celebrate our purpose-driven approach to undergraduate education.” Meir blasted off from Baikonur Cosmodrome in Kazakhstan last September. During her six-month mission, her first trip to space, Meir and her crewmates are overseeing hundreds of experiments in biology, biotechnology, physical science and Earth science aboard humanity’s only permanently occupied microgravity laboratory. In October, Meir and crewmate Christina Koch made history by performing the first all-woman spacewalk. Meir graduated from Brown in 1999 with a bachelor’s degree in biology before earning her Ph.D. in marine biology from Scripps Institution of Oceanography. From 2000 to 2003, she worked at NASA’s Johnson Space Center supporting human physiology research on the space shuttle and International Space Station. She was selected as an astronaut in 2013. During the Feb. 13 event, Zia and Brown professor Jim Head will highlight the University’s long history of involvement in space exploration. Head worked with NASA on the Apollo missions to the Moon, helping to select landing sites, train astronauts in geology and analyze returned lunar samples. Since then, Brown faculty members have been involved in numerous missions to the Moon, Mars, Mercury, Venus and elsewhere. Recently, Brown students and faculty played a key role in the selection of Jezero Crater as the landing site for the next Mars rover. Once the downlink is successfully established, Meir will then answer questions from Brown students and community members and be visible via video screen in the event space. Attendees can submit questions in advance via an online form for Meir to answer live during the event. Due to the nature of the event — Meir’s mission aboard the ISS as well as the technological challenges that might unexpectedly arise in communicating from space — the event’s date and time are subject to change. Tags Open Curriculum Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown Social Navigation Facebook Instagram LinkedIn Snapchat Twitter YouTube Social Media Directory © Brown University Brown University For You Current Students Faculty Staff Parents & Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Featured Events For Journalists Topics Arts and Humanities Environment Health and Medicine News and Events Science and Technology Social Sciences Student Life University Initiatives Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation About Events For You Give to Brown All of Brown.edu People News Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Astronaut alumna to chat with Brown students from space Open details for Astronaut alumna to chat with Brown students from space Bookmark this Page