Covid-19: Get the latest updates here Apply to JTS Contact Campus Life Alumni Get Email Updates Donate Now Search About Higher Education Emergency Relief Fund Leadership History JTS and Israel Conservative Judaism Offices & Resources Policies Accreditation Visit JTS Admissions List College Admissions Davidson School Admissions Rabbinical School Admissions Gershon Kekst Graduate School Admissions H. L. Miller Cantorial School Admissions Take a Virtual Tour Academics Academics School List College The William Davidson School The Rabbinical School The Gershon Kekst Graduate School H. L. Miller Cantorial School Faculty & Scholars Faculty & Scholars Center & Institutes Center for Pastoral Education Block / Kolker Center for Spiritual Arts The Hendel Center for Ethics and Justice Milstein Center for Interreligious Dialogue Louis Finkelstein Institute for Religious & Social Studies Research Institutes Summer Programs Nishma Summer Sessions Summer Hebrew Language Courses Professional Training Professional Training CONTINUING EDUCATION FOR CLERGY The Rabbinic Training Institute (RTI) Summer Rabbinic Learning Conference Online Learning for Rabbis and Cantors FOR JEWISH EDUCATORS Day School Leadership Training Institute (DSLTI) Jewish Early Childhood Education Leadership Institute (JECELI) Ivriyon: Hebrew Immersion Institute for Day School Educators Jewish Day School Standards and Benchmarks FOR OTHER PROFESSIONALS NAASE Week of Study Community Learning Community Learning ONLINE Live Online Classes JTS Torah Online BEYOND THE CAMPUS JTS Learning in Your Community Courses and Curricula LEARNING EVENTS Public Lectures and Events FOR 8TH-12TH GRADERS Prozdor Teen Learning Library About The Library Letter from the Librarian Library Services The New JTS Library Library Programs and Events Library Online Exhibits Special Collections JTS Library Membership Email a Librarian News & Events News Events Academic Calendar Library Services Library Library Services Update Fall 2021: We’re delighted to announce that the new Library is open to the JTS community. The Library is following all JTS COVID-19 protocols, as well as additional, library-specific protocols. At this time, no outside visitors are permitted in the Library. Please see details below. Who Can Use the Library? Use of the Library is currently available only to JTS students, faculty, and staff. At this time, no outside visitors are permitted in the Library. Limited Capacity and Social Distancing Users may freely enter the library. Each user will sign-in with name, contact information, and the time they enter the library. Once we meet the safe library capacity, we will ask the person who came in first to leave (assuming they have already been present for two hours) to make room for additional users. Each seating alcove may be used by one person at a time. The same is true for the collaboration room. Only one person may sit on alternating sides of adjacent carrels, so that no person is within six feet of another without a divider of some type. Seating will be spaced out. We ask that you keep all the library’s chairs in the position in which you find them. Computers Bring your laptop and use the Library’s robust Wifi. There are no public computers available for use in the Library. Questions? Please contact one of our reference librarians at library@jtsa.edu or call them at 212-678-8844. They will be happy to answer questions or help you with what you need. Library Hours Spring 2022 Monday – Thursday 10:00 a.m. – 5:00 p.m. The Library is closed on all Jewish holidays and on the following national holidays: New Year’s Day, Martin Luther King Jr. Day, Presidents’ Day, Memorial Day, Independence Day, Labor Day, and Thanksgiving. Library Borrowing Card JTS students must validate their JTS ID card at the Registrar’s Office at the beginning of each semester and present it to JTS Library staff. Account Access Your JTS email ID and password can be used to sign in to Makor, our online discovery tool, to access full-text articles, ebooks, and Hebrew text databases. Your JTS Library Borrower Card number and Pincode can be used to manage retrieving and borrowing printed materials. Contact library staff to get your Borrower credentials. To order a book from storage (i.e., place a hold on that book): Click on “sign in” on the upper right corner of the Makor screen and, with your Library Borrower Card number and Pincode, sign in to your account. Then search for item, click on “Location,” click on “Request,” and complete the form. You will be notified when the item is available for pickup. To renew items: Log in to your account, click on “Loan,” select the item for renewal, and click “Renew.” The new due date will appear. Items can be renewed up to three times. Overdue books and fines: No online activity may be conducted for overdue books. Fines may be viewed on your account. Payment of fines and unblocking of accounts must be done by contacting Library staff. Fines and Fees Fines are accrued at $0.50 per day per item for days The Library is open. Unpaid fines result in the blocking of your account and can hold up your registration. Lost or damaged book fees are the cost of the book plus a processing fee. For more information, please contact the circulation desk at library@jtsa.edu or (212) 678-8844. E-Reserve Readings To find course readings placed on reserve, JTS students can log in here. Exhibition and Loan of JTS Materials The JTS Library’s mission includes contributing to the education of the broad public. Consequently, we are happy to loan our items for exhibitions at established museums, libraries, and similar institutions. If you would like a copy of our loan guidelines, please send an inquiry to loanguidelines@jtsa.edu. For consultation regarding which items in our collection might be appropriate for your exhibition, be in touch with our librarian for Special Collections at specialcollections@jtsa.edu or our librarian for Jewish Art at jewishart@jtsa.edu. Reference Services Our reference librarians are available to help you in person, or you can contact them at library@jtsa.edu or at (212) 678-8844. Research guides are available in print and online. Reference services are available during regular Library hours. For reference requests in specialized areas: Make an appointment to find reference assistance for our Music collection, audiovisual materials, or microform materials by calling (212) 678-8844. Request reference assistance for Special Collections by emailing specialcollections@jtsa.edu or calling (212) 678-8973. Request assistance with our archives by emailing archives@jtsa.edu or calling (212) 678-8973. Request assistance with our art collection by emailing jewishart@jtsa.edu or calling (212) 678-8975. Interlibrary Loan The JTS Library provides Interlibrary Loan (ILL) services, allowing users to obtain materials that are not at The Library. Any user with borrowing privileges at The Library may use this service. (Since JTS students and faculty have borrowing privileges at Columbia University, The Library does not make ILL requests for items found in the Columbia University libraries.) Libraries wishing to borrow from JTS will be charged a $15 per item fee. Requests should be placed through OCLC. Reproduction Services and Permissions The JTS Library provides a full range of reproduction services. See our fee schedule below. We also give permission to reproduce images or texts from our materials for books, films, and other media. Send request forms to librarypermissions@jtsa.edu. To order copies, fill out our copy request form. For permissions, fill out the permission to publish request form. Digital Images (including Rare Materials and Archives) Service Fee (Not-for-Profit Users) Fee (For-Profit Users) Copies of Existing Digitized Images $5.00/image $10.00/image Reproduction of Existing Negative to TIFF $30.00 $30.00 Photocopies Note: Photocopies are permitted of the general collection and archival material, with the latter subject to the approval of the archivist or library staff. Material Fee Archival $1.00/page General Photocopies $0.15/page Reproduction for Publication Cover Interior Page $300.00 $50.00 Usage Fees for Film, Video, and Web Images Use Fee (Not-for-Profit) Fee (For-Profit) Internet $25.00/image $50.00/image Film/Video/TV $50.00/image $75.00/image Note: There is a 5 percent levy on credit card payments. SHARE THIS PAGE Search the Library SUPPORT ONE OF THE GREATEST COLLECTIONS OF JUDAICA IN THE WORLD MAKE A GIFT TO THE JTS LIBRARY RESOURCES Current Students Faculty & Scholars CONNECT WITH US Get Email Updates Visit Give Social Media © The Jewish Theological Seminary All Rights Reserved | בית המדרש ללימודי יהדות 3080 Broadway, New York, NY 10027 Privacy Policy x Share This Page From Name(Required) From Email(Required) To Email(Required) Message