Menu Close Menu Skip to content Information For: Prospective Students Current Students Alumni Faculty & Staff Friends & Supporters A to Z index Search for: Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health Email People Departments Calendar Careers my.harvard Giving About Faculty & Research Admissions & Aid Academics Executive/Continuing Ed News Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health > Privacy Policy Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health Menu Search for: Home Admissions Office of Financial Aid Office of Communications Public Safety Privacy Policy Feedback Privacy Policy This policy states the privacy practices for the web sites under the domains hsph.harvard.edu and sph.harvard.edu. Please note: The Alumni Community web site (alumni.sph.harvard.edu) has a separate privacy policy available here. By registering for, downloading, accessing or using any of the services provided on the sites, you accept and agree to this policy, whether or not you are a registered user or have an account. As used in this policy, “we,” “us” and “our” refer to the Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health. If you do not agree to this policy, do not register for, download, access or use any of the services provided on the sites. This policy does not apply to information that we may collect from you in other ways (for example, the policy does not apply to information that you may provide to us over the telephone, by fax, through conventional mail or electronic mail, or to any information that you may provide to us or the Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health independently of the Services). In addition, please note that your education records are protected by the Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act (“FERPA”) to the extent FERPA applies. Personally Identifiable Information As used in this Privacy Policy, “personally identifiable information” means your full name and other information that personally identifies you. Information gathering We may ask our visitors to provide email addresses and other information about themselves. Our web server software generates logs of the IP addresses of computers that access this web site and of the files here they access. These logs are retained on a temporary basis and then deleted completely from our systems. We may also collect statistics about the behavior of visitors to this website. We may gather website usage statistics ourselves or through service providers such as Google Analytics and retain them for an indefinite period. We may display this statistical information publicly or provide it to others. However, we do not collect or disclose personally-identifying information other than as described in this policy. Cookies, tracking pixels, and similar technologies Cookies are unique bits of computer data that many major websites will transfer to your computer the first time you visit. Cookies are stored on your hard drive and may be later accessed by the website to track prior usage. We may use cookies to maintain a user’s identity between web sessions. Cookies, transparent GIF files known as tracking pixels, or similar technologies may also be used by the Harvard Chan School or collaborating service providers in connection with our digital advertising efforts. These technologies anonymously track individual visitors between the Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health’s web properties and other websites, allowing us to improve user experience on the website and learn which advertisements bring users to our site. Our email service providers may also use pixels to collect information about email activities such as opens and clicks at an individual, personally-identifiable level. You may be able to set your browser to refuse cookies or to alert you when one is being sent. It is likely that some portions of our site will not operate properly if cookies are disabled. User generated content (including comments and profiles) In certain instances, for example during events streamed live from the website at http://theforum.sph.harvard.edu/, users may be able to post comments or participate in live chats on the site. Any information you disclose in your submission of comments, including name, email, website, and the comment itself is property of the Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health. Additionally, information regarding name and comments may be public on the Harvard Chan School site. Comments may be moderated and/or approved by Harvard Chan School-authorized moderators. The Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health reserves the right to reject or remove thereafter any content from appearing on its sites that does not meet its user generated content policy. The School is in no way responsible for content posted by outside individuals or groups posting in such sections of the School’s websites. Use of information We do not share, sell, or rent individual personally identifiable information except as described in this policy or ordered by a court of law. Information submitted to us is only available to employees and third-party vendors who manage this information for purposes of contacting you, sending you e-mails based on your requesting information, or fulfilling requests you make of us. We use your IP address and information on files you access to help diagnose problems with our server and to administer our Web site by identifying (1) which parts of our site are most heavily used, and (2) which portion of our audience comes from within the Harvard network. We also use this information to tailor site content to user needs, and to generate aggregate statistical reports. We do not link IP addresses to anything personally identifiable. Information collected through cookies, such as portions of your Harvard Chan School website browsing history, may be associated with the personal information you submit when you make certain requests of us, to help us improve our website and outreach. Cookies may also be used to pre-fill form information, and to enable our digital marketing providers to serve our content to you. Any email address you provide may be used to send you information and to respond to inquiries and other requests or questions. At any time you may opt out of receiving emails that you have requested, although doing so may prevent us from fulfilling some requests. Transparent pixels may be used to help us determine if the emails we send are being received and read, and to test different messaging. User information may be shared with third-party partners to the extent necessary to provide and improve web services or other communications to users. Any third parties who receive user information for this purpose are prohibited from using or sharing user information for any purpose other than providing services to users. We may also provide your information to third parties in circumstances where we believe that doing so is necessary or appropriate to: satisfy any applicable law, regulation, legal process or governmental request; detect, prevent or otherwise address fraud, security or technical issues; or protect the rights, property or safety of us, our users or others. Security This site has a program designed to protect personally identifiable Information in its possession or control. This includes a variety of privacy and security policies, processes and procedures, including administrative, physical and technical measures. Nonetheless, no method of collection, storage or transmission is entirely secure, and we cannot guarantee that our security measures will be effective. Contacting this web site If you have any questions about this privacy statement, the practices of this site, or your dealings with this site, you can contact webmaster@hsph.harvard.edu. This web site may contain links to other web sites. We are not responsible for the privacy practices or the content of such web sites. Users Located in the European Economic Area If you are located in the European Union, Iceland, Liechtenstein or Norway (the “European Economic Area”), please click here for additional information about ways that certain Harvard University Schools, Centers, units and controlled entities, including this one, may collect, use, and share information about you. Effective Date and changes This Privacy Policy may be amended from time to time. Any such changes will be posted on this page. The effective date of this policy is May 23, 2018. Harvard Chan School on Twitter In the wake of a May 24 mass shooting at a Uvalde, Texas, elementary school that left 19 students and two teachers… https://t.co/x8GHo0fMZS RT @dengdiit: This week,I had the honor and responsibility of receiving a master’s degree in public health with concentration in health pol… RT @Harvard: “Don’t let your generation be defined by the pandemic. Let it be defined by public service,” said Attorney General Merrick Gar… RT @HarvardCCHANGE: Looking for ways to take action on #climate? The Climate Health Organizing Fellowship trains health professionals to u… RT @HarvardCCHANGE: Creativity is turning coal mines, landfills, and toxic waters into opportunities for #CleanEnergy. Your lights yearn to… RT @HarvardCenterHH: What is the relationship between #technology and #happiness? This @Forbes article offers potential considerations, wit… Information For: Prospective Students Current Students Alumni Faculty & Staff Friends & Supporters About Key Facts Renaming the School Office of the Dean Location and Facilities Administrative Offices Contact Us Faculty and Research Faculty and Researcher Directory Academic Departments, Divisions and Centers International Research Postdoctoral Research Fellows Office of Faculty Affairs Faculty Searches Office of Diversity and Inclusion Admissions & Aid Why Harvard Chan Degree Programs Non-Degree Programs Financial Aid Student Experience Career Advancement Apply Academics Academic Departments Divisions Research Centers Flagship Initiatives International Research Research Administration and Support Degree Programs Fellowships and Residencies Summer Programs Continuing Professional Education Interdisciplinary Concentrations Academic Calendar Harvard Chan Viewbook Executive/Continuing Ed Program Offerings Custom Programs Request Information News and Resources About ECPE Contact News Featured News Press Releases Student Stories In the News Newsletters HPH Magazine Why Public Health? Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health 677 Huntington Avenue Boston, MA 02115 +1 (617) 495‑1000 Twitter Facebook YouTube LinkedIn Instagram iTunes Harvard Chan Home Contact Us Harvard University Home Make a Gift Privacy Policy Report Copyright Violation Accessibility Copyright © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College