Skip to main content iastate.edu Index A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z Directory Maps Safety Sign Ons AccessPlus Canvas CyBox CyMail Okta Outlook Workday More Sign Ons... Iowa State University Iowa State University Department of English Menu Toggle Search Toggle Search Donate Home Undergraduate Schedule A Visit Apply Online Academic Advising Majors English Major Requirements Linguistics Major Requirements Speech Communication Requirements Bachelor of Science in Technical Communication Minors Careers in English Testing Out of Classes English 150 Test-Out English/Ling 220 Test-Out English 250 Test-Out English 302 Test-Out English 314 Test-Out SP CM 212 Test-Out Transfer Credit Policies Student Organizations Undergraduate Awards and Scholarships Learning Communities Graduate Prospective Students How to Apply Financial Support for New Students Professional Development Opportunities Resources to Welcome You Applied Linguistics PhD in Applied Linguistics & Technology MA in TESL/Applied Linguistics Graduate Certificate in TESL/TEFL Faculty Students Recent Alumni Creative Writing and Environment MFA in Creative Writing and Environment Faculty Current Students Recent Alumni Thesis FAQ MFA Application Guidelines Pearl Hogrefe Fellowship Application Guidelines Everett Casey Nature Center & Reserve Pearl Hogrefe Visiting Writer Series Flyway: Journal of Writing and Environment English MA in English (Literature) MA in English (Literature & the Teaching of Reading) Faculty Current Students Recent Alumni Rhetoric & Professional Communication Program Rhetoric & Professional Communication (PhD) PhD in RPC: Coursework & Program of Study Rhetoric, Composition, & Professional Communication (MA) MA in RCPC: Coursework & Program of Study Faculty Current Students Recent Alumni Phorum Graduate Program of Study Manual (August 2021) Graduate Awards, Scholarships, and Grants Current Student & Faculty Resources Forms Deadlines Course Offerings English Graduate Studies Lending Library Center for Communication Excellence (CCE) Green Dot Violence Prevention Program Grad Connections ISUComm About ISUComm Vision, Mission, Means The Principles of ISUComm Communication Proficiency ISUComm Support ISUComm ePortfolios DRAW Foundation Communication Curriculum and Objectives English Placement Policy English 150 Test-Out English 250 Test-Out Specialized Foundation Courses Transfer Credit Policies University Requirement for C or Better in English 250 Advanced Communication Courses in Advanced Communication Advanced Communication Test-Out Procedures Transfer Credit Policies Speech Communication Course Descriptions SP CM 212 Test-Out Transfer Credit Policies About Faculty Directory Staff Directory Advisers Graduate Student Directory Department Spotlight Office Hours Administrative Personnel Department News Department Calendar Learning Outcomes Assessment Faculty Resources Research What’s Going On Now Research Groups Alumni Newsletter and Giving English Alumni Awards Home ISUComm ISUComm What is ISUComm? ISUComm is Iowa State University’s communication-across-the-curriculum initiative. The goal of ISUComm is to strengthen student communication and enhance students’ critical thinking skills by creating opportunities for them to practice communication skills throughout their academic careers. While many institutions have similar outreach efforts to train and encourage faculty from all disciplines to include writing assignments in their courses, ISUComm speaks to a broader set of communication competencies. Rather than focusing solely on written communication, ISUComm is contemporary and comprehensive in its emphasis on oral, visual, and electronic skills development as well. What is WOVE? WOVE is an acronym that stands for “written, oral, visual, and electronic” communication. More commonly referred to as “multimodal communication,” this pedagogy serves as the basis for ISUComm’s efforts toward student-centered, contemporary curriculum reform. In the foundation courses that ISUComm has developed, ISUComm is building upon an integrated approach to writing instruction that has been underway at ISU for some time. All composition classes use electronic classrooms, all teach students how to engage in small group discussions and oral critiques with peers, many sections of these courses incorporate brief oral presentations, and many of these classes now address some design aspects of written texts, such as headings and page layout. By bringing WOVE pedagogy into their classrooms, teachers provide all students with the kind of communication instruction that prepares them to communicate with expertise in multiple settings and with multiple media. Why WOVE? Because of changes in technology, written communication is now virtually inseparable from oral, visual, and electronic modes of communication, not just in the academy but also in the professions, in business, and in the public sector. For example, writers of all sorts discuss their drafts with friends and colleagues, they often present their ideas orally and visually at conferences and in meetings, and they routinely add illustrations, layout devices, and visual representations of data to clarify their ideas. Most writers now do all these tasks with the help of computers, and they increasingly do it on the web. And yet, despite the integrated nature of contemporary communication, many students neither grasp the fact that communication itself has changed nor know how to communicate in this multimodal environment. If we are to adequately prepare our students for the challenges they will face in the academy and beyond, then it is our responsibility as teachers to acquaint them with communication practices as they actually exist. In other words, we must present writing as it is integrated with other media. College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Department of English Iowa State University Department of English 203 Ross Hall 527 Farmhouse Ln. Iowa State University Ames IA 50011-1054 engldept@iastate.edu 515-294-2180 phone 515-294-6814 fax Twitter Facebook Copyright © 1995- Iowa State University of Science and Technology All rights reserved. Non-discrimination Policy Privacy Policy Digital Access & Accessibility Loading...