Skip Navigation Texas A&M University at Galveston Find info for: Future Students Future Students Current Students Faculty & Staff Former Students Visitors Veterans University Catalog Phonebook Calendar A-Z List Search MENU University Police Search Emergency Contacts Parking Safety Resources Crime Prevention Campus Regulations Campus Security Report Campus Security Authority Form Select Web or PeopleWebPeople Search University Police Emergency Contacts Parking Safety Resources Crime Prevention Campus Regulations Campus Security Report Campus Security Authority Form University Police Privacy Statement Texas A&M University (TAMU) respects your privacy. The University's main Webpage does not collect personal information about visitors. In particular, we do not use "cookies" to collect information. Personal information that you provide via e-mail or through other online means will be used only for purposes necessary to serve your needs, such as responding to an inquiry or other request for information. This may involve redirecting your inquiry or comment to another person or department better suited to meeting your needs. We do, however, use server logs to collect information concerning your Internet connection and general information about your visit to our Web site. This information may be used to analyze trends; to create summary statistics for the purpose of determining technical design specifications; and to identify system performance or problem areas. This means we sometimes acquire, record and analyze portions of the data that is entered into, stored on, and/or transmitted through this site by you. This information is only released – when legally required – to help law enforcement investigations, legal proceedings or internal investigations of TAMUG rule and regulation violations. These groups would use the information to track the electronic interactions back to the source computer(s) or account(s). Some web pages at Texas A&M University at Galveston may collect personal information about visitors and use that information for purposes other than those stated above. Each web page that collects information will have a separate privacy statement that will tell you how that information is used. Contact the Webmaster If you have any questions about this privacy statement, the practices of this site, or your use of this Web site, please contact the Webmaster. COOKIES: A cookie file contains unique information that a Web site can use to track such things as passwords, pages you have visited, the date you last looked at a specific page, and to identify your session at a particular Web site. SERVER LOG INFORMATION: The following information is collected from server logs for analysis. User/client hostname – The hostname (or IP address if DNS is disabled) of the user/client requesting access HTTP header, "user agent" – The user-agent information includes the type of browser, its version, and the operating system it is running on HTTP header, "referrer" – The referrer specifies the page from which the client accessed the current page System date – The date and time of the user/client request Full request – The exact request the user/client made Status – The status code the server returned to the user/client Content length – The content length, in bytes, of the document sent to the user/client Method – The request method used Universal Resource Identifier (URI) – The location of a resource on the server Query string of the URI – Anything after the question mark in a URI Protocol – The transport protocol and version used © 2021 Texas A&M University at Galveston Mailing Address: P.O. Box 1675, Galveston, Texas 77553 Physical Address: 200 Seawolf Parkway, Galveston, TX 77554 Shipping Address: 1001 Texas Clipper Road, Galveston, TX 77554 Site Policies Back to top