Skip to main content Search form Search Information For Current Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Employers Search < Back to Columbia Public Health Menu Corporate Partnerships Research to Impact Who We Are Our Team How We Work Why Us About Columbia Mailman School Our Advisors Our Expertise COVID-19 Strategies Data Science for Health Sustainability & Health Global Health Healthy Aging Food & Nutrition Our Deliverables Targeted Research Reports Predictive Analytics Models Training Programs & Toolkits Survey Design, Dissemination, and Analysis Program Evaluation Our Case Studies Otsuka Pharmaceuticals Novo Nordisk Merck: Savings Mothers, Giving Life Claritin/Bayer Hospital Decision-Making Simulation Get In Touch Latest News Search You are here Home Corporate Partnerships Who We Are Why Us Winter Storm Update/Impacts to Campus and Services Last Updated 12:50pm Fri May 6 See Coronavirus Updates for information on campus protocols. Our Team How We Work Why Us About Columbia Mailman School Our Advisors Our Team How We Work Why Us About Columbia Mailman School Our Advisors Why Us Why consider working with us? The Mailman School of Public Health is one of the most innovative research institutions in the world with a long history of thought-leadership and ground-breaking public health research. Our faculty is comprised of globally respected and award winning experts. We have proven experience in collaborating successfully with our corporate partners. And we are eager to apply our capabilities and knowledge to real-world challenges for the benefit of your customers, employees and society. Now more than ever, academic-private sector collaborations are critically important for corporate innovation and positive societal impact. Columbia Mailman is open for business and looking forward to our collaboration. Welcome -- learn more about our ground-breaking collaborations and capabilities and contact us to discuss your ideas for a successful collaboration. Sign up for Transmission Receive updates about research and news from Columbia Mailman School of Public Health via our weekly newsletter. Subscribe Columnbia Mailman Connect with Us Public Health Now News Events Publications Topics Student Voices Academics Departments Degrees Course Directory Calendar Policy & Procedures Office of Education Research Featured Research Global Health Centers Programs Grants & Awards Corporate Partnerships People Our Faculty Current Students Friends and Supporters Partners Alumni Become a Student Meet Our Faculty Life & Community Degree Finder How to Apply Career Services More Information Columbia University Mailman School of Public Health | 722 West 168th St. NY, NY 10032 Site Map Privacy Columbia University Irving Medical Center Copyright © Columbia University 2019 Information For Current Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Employers