Skip to main content Clemson University Degrees Home Degree Programs MENU World Cinema (B.A.) LEARN MORE ABOUT You look forward to rainy days and the movie marathons they bring. Netflix binge doesn't even come close to accurately describing your cinema-centric lifestyle and you can't remember a time Tarantino and Miyazaki were not on your top 10 list. As a world cinema major at Clemson, you'll dive into how cinema intersects with intellectual and cultural practices such as mass media, literature, politics and philosophy in an international/intercultural context. You'll be required to take four semesters of a foreign language and be a part of a local internship or a study abroad experience. Through your classes and external opportunities, you will become aware of the cultural, economic and historical forces that impact the course of cinematic production, distribution and exhibition. Designed to initiate theoretical and practical training, this degree is for students who want to pursue advanced degrees in arts and humanities as well as those who aim to enter careers in teaching, journalism, filmmaking, digital media, audio-visual archives and libraries, tourism, advertising, film criticism, industrial video documentation and community outreach. FAST FACTS World Cinema is a new media-based major at Clemson with an emphasis on cross-cultural research and international experience. A student-organized and -programmed film series is currently in development. World Cinema is one of the fastest-growing majors at Clemson. Clemson is located two hours from Atlanta, known as the "Hollywood of the South." Movies and TV shows that have been filmed in and around the city include "Avengers: Infinity War," "Stranger Things” and "The Hunger Games: Catching Fire.” WHAT YOU'LL STUDY Designed to teach critical and creative skills, this unique major will train you to comprehend, challenge and participate in the global screen culture through a blend of conceptual and practical curriculum. You may customize your course of study in order to focus on analytical research or develop a creative project to learn the basics of digital media production. You'll also have an opportunity to participate in a study-abroad film production segment or a local internship program. What's more, you are required to take four semesters of a foreign language, which will equip you with a unique advantage to conduct cross-cultural research and engage with cultures other than your own. Although not the focus of your studies, you'll receive training in a range of production areas that will provide you with the basic skills to either directly enter the industry or join a media production apprenticeship. A diverse, multi-disciplinary faculty pool will challenge you to step outside of the box and behind the camera. As part of this Bachelor of Arts degree, all students are required to complete a 15-hour minor, which should enhance your academic interests. Options include, but aren't limited to, minors in digital production arts, screenwriting, theater, writing, art, global politics, East Asian studies and modern languages. Curriculum World Cinema, B.A. Similar Majors English (B.A.) Modern Languages (B.A.) Performing Arts (B.A.) EXPERIENCES BEYOND THE CLASSROOM Our world cinema students are curious, creative and analytical. They further hone their skills in visual analysis, writing and critical thinking that takes them outside the classroom and sometimes even behind the camera. Film Festival Southern Margins presents amateur and professional short films exploring experiences of Southern and underrepresented persons and communities. Learn More » Internships Put your knowledge to practical use in the regional film, television and advertising industries. Our students have interned for Verín International Short Film Festival in Spain and Your Creative People in Greenville, among other placements. Study Abroad Enhance your cross-cultural awareness by participating in a study abroad film-production segment.Learn More » CONNECT WITH OTHER STUDENTS Clemson Film Club AFTER GRADUATION Your college decision isn't really about the next four years. We get it. It's about what doors are opened by your degree and whether those opportunities are what you had envisioned for yourself. Here's a snapshot of what life after graduation looks like for some of our most recent students. WHERE OUR RECENT GRADUATES HAVE GONE KEY 41-100% 21-40% 11-20% 0-10% RECENT EMPLOYERS XPression Designer and Programmer SoFi Stadium and Hollywood Park Manager of Video and Creative Services Chicago Fire Soccer Club Assistant Curator Museum of the Cherokee RECENT POSTGRADUATE STUDIES JD American University Washington College of Law M.S. in Television Boston University M.A. in Film and Television Savannah College of Art and Design COMMON CAREER AREAS Teaching Journalism Filmmaking Digital Media Digital Production Tourism Advertising Film Criticism Video Documentation Community Outreach Library and Information Science Film Festival Programming Used with permission from the University of Tennessee. FIND OUT MORE Have more questions or want more information? Fill out the form below, which goes directly to the following department contact. If you’d also like to receive general University information from Clemson’s admissions office, please follow the link to the right and sign up to join our mailing list. Jessica Garcia Recruiter jgarci6@clemson.edu Department Website College Website Loading... Department Website College Website Home Admissions Campus Life Academics Visit Outreach Research About Apply To Clemson Undergraduate Graduate Professional Online Education Employment Opportunities Policy/Terms of Use Text Version Web Accessibility Ethics/Safety Line Privacy Policy Site Information Copyright © 2015 Clemson University Clemson, South Carolina 29634 864-656-3311 Contact Clemson Stories for the Clemson Family Clemson University on Facebook Clemson University on Twitter Clemson University on Google+ Clemson University on LinkedIn Clemson University on YouTube Clemson University on Flickr Clemson University on Instagram Search Clemson University degrees Clemson Degree Programs Search Alphabetical List Schedule a Visit Campus Life Admissions Costs & Financial Aid Similar Majors To World Cinema (B.A.) English (B.A.) Modern Languages (B.A.) Performing Arts (B.A.)