Javascript must be enabled for the correct page display Skip to Content Close × Close × Academics Academics Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs Schools and Colleges Faculty Office of the Provost Resources Resources Undergraduate Admissions Office of Graduate Affairs Academic Calendar Mission and Ministry Alumni and Friends Quick Links Quick Links Seton Hall Homepage Seton Hall News University Calendar SHU Athletics Support Seton Hall Seton Hall University Academics Academics Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs Schools and Colleges Faculty Office of the Provost Resources Resources Undergraduate Admissions Office of Graduate Affairs Academic Calendar Mission and Ministry Alumni and Friends Quick Links Quick Links Seton Hall Homepage Seton Hall News University Calendar SHU Athletics Support Seton Hall Events PirateNet Menu Seton Hall University Academics Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs Schools and Colleges Faculty Office of the Provost Resources Undergraduate Admissions Office of Graduate Affairs Academic Calendar Mission and Ministry Alumni and Friends Quick Links Seton Hall Homepage Seton Hall News University Calendar SHU Athletics Support Seton Hall Events PirateNet University Site Search Seton Hall University College of Nursing About the College of Nursing Office of the Dean Faculty and Research Interprofessional Health Sciences Campus Library News and Events Meet Our Students, Alumni & Faculty Out of State Requirements Support the School Give Now Programs Undergraduate B.S.N. Graduate M.S.N. Doctoral Ph.D. and D.N.P. Accelerated B.S.N. Certificates Continuing Education Leadership Development Connect Request Information Graduate Admission Requirements Graduate Information Sessions Gamma Nu Honor Society College Newsletter Apply Now Congratulations, Class of 2022! The College of Nursing is proud to celebrate its graduating students and recognize those with jobs on their horizons. read more The College of Nursing provides a wide variety of undergraduate and nationally ranked graduate programs that have prepared students for leadership in the nursing industry since 1937. We are pioneers in evidence-based practice, servant leadership and cutting-edge technology, and encourage our students to integrate their values into their daily nursing practice. Request Information Apply Now NEWS CareCall: A Look into Nursing Entrepreneurship Students from the Buccino Leadership Institute's College of Nursing cohort have developed an innovative app to improve the outdated hospital call bell system. VIEW ALL NEWS AND EVENTS NEWS Professor Kathleen Neville Chosen Fulbright UK Scholar Investigating nursing students' knowledge, attitudes and stigma to enable them to be change agents as frontline providers of care while confronting the opioid epidemic. VIEW ALL NEWS AND EVENTS NEWS WSOU Celebrates Nurses Week WSOU-FM's Thank God For Monday program welcomed College of Nursing Clinical Assistant Professor Katherine Connolly and students Patricia Esposito and Colleen Osbahr in honor of National Nurses Week. VIEW ALL NEWS AND EVENTS EVENT May 24 Seton Hall University Commencement 2022 Seton Hall University will celebrate its 166th baccalaureate commencement ceremony on Tuesday, May 24, 2022, at the Prudential Center, 165 Mulberry Street in Newark, N.J. at 9 a.m. VIEW ALL NEWS AND EVENTS NEWS Nursing Programs Top in the Nation Per U.S. News and World Report, the College of Nursing has the top-ranked online graduate nursing programs in New Jersey in 2022, ranking 15th nationally and up from 27 last year. VIEW ALL NEWS AND EVENTS NEWS Seton Hall, Hackensack Meridian Partner on Grant SAMHSA grant allows 'DATA waiver' training to fight the opioid crisis, a health challenge of our time. VIEW ALL NEWS AND EVENTS what Great Minds Can Do Scholarship Honoring Nursing Alumna Awarded to Sophomore College of Nursing Sophomore Stephanie Martinez has received the 2022 Minette's Angels Scholarship. read more College of Nursing Seton Hall University Interprofessional Health Sciences Campus 123 Metro Boulevard Nutley, NJ 07110 (973) 542-6200 Privacy Statements Title IX Nondiscrimination Statement and Information Contact Us Student Services Parents and Families Career Center Technology Web Accessibility Visiting Campus Public Safety Disability Support Services Campus Security Report Employment Follow #SetonHall www.shu.edu/social Back to top