Skip to main content Google Tag Manager Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Prospective Newly Admitted Current Alumni Columbia University School of General Studies Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Admissions Educational Financing Academics Student Services About Undergraduate Admissions How to Apply Eligibility Application Deadlines and Decisions Information Sessions/Campus Visits Transfer Students Postbac Premed Admissions How to Apply Eligibility Application Deadlines and Decisions Information Sessions/Campus Visits Newly Admitted Students International Students Planning Day Placement Exams University-Wide Placement Exams U.S. Military Veterans International Dual Degree Programs Types of Financial Aid Institutional Scholarships Federal and State Grants Loans Private Scholarships and Grants Student Employment Financial Aid for Military Veterans Post-9/11 GI Bill® and the Yellow Ribbon Program Veterans Request for Certification Cost of Attendance Applying for Financial Aid Prospective Students Newly Admitted Students Current Students University Employees Postbac Premed Students Counseling Appointments Enrollment Update Form Student Account Refunds Undergraduate The Core Curriculum Degree Fulfillment Course Listings Majors and Concentrations Research Opportunities Study Abroad Academic Calendar Postbac Premed Program Curriculum & Courses Sample Schedule Course Listings Preparatory Coursework Previously Completed Coursework Glide Year Master’s Programs Academic Calendar Applying to Medical School General Admission Linkage Admission Linkage Specific Program Requirements Reapplicants Letters of Recommendation Academic Policies Registration Enrollment and Courseload Leaves and Withdrawals Academic Integrity and Standards Faculty of Arts and Sciences Undergraduate Announcements Postbac Premed Announcements Academic Advising Academic Resource Center Programs & Services Jumpstart Series Tutoring Peer Advising Campus Services Forms and Guides Graduation Health and Wellness Housing International Students Medical School Fair Planning Your Future Accelerated Master's Programs Fellowships and Research Premedical Clinical and Research Positions Student Life Leadership Development Multicultural & Social Justice Education Programs Student Organizations Upcoming Events Veterans Resources and Initiatives Leadership Mission History Statistics and Facts Notable Alumni University Policies Events Staff Directory Faculty News Press Coverage Media Inquiries School of General Studies You are here: Home Student Services Academic Resource Center Peer Advising Peer Advising Peer Advisor Availability Meet the Peer Advisors Zoom Link GS Peer Advisors are students who wish to provide support and advice about the opportunities and challenges at Columbia. Peer advisors are available to discuss academics, campus resources, personal concerns, and the transition to GS at either in-person walk-in hours or by scheduling an appointment. Contact Undergraduate Peer Advisors [email protected] Peer Advisors Caleb Bowen English Caleb is originally from Brooklyn, New York but moved to Peachtree City, Georgia at the age of 10. He joined the U.S. Coast Guard straight out of high school and served as a helicopter mechanic. He was stationed in Miami, Florida and New Orleans, Louisiana. After serving five years, he decided to go to college and pursue a BA in English. He is involved with MilVets, the Student-Governing Board, and Columbia Sharp a cappella group. Caleb hopes to pursue law school upon graduation. During his free time, Caleb enjoys live music, basketball, spending time with his grandparents, and trying out different coffee shops in NYC. Avidan Brown Avidan Brown Political Science Avidan is a native New Yorker. He postponed a traditional high school and college experience to pursue a career in competitive figure skating. After retirement and completion of his GED, he moved back to NYC to get married and attend GS. Avidan has served as President and VP of GS Alliance, been both a mentee and mentor in the GS Mentorship program, and been heavily involved with NSOP as an Orientation Leader and Crew Captain. He is also a working student, coaching a new generation of figure skaters around the tri-state area. In his free time, he enjoys and values spending time with friends and family, watching films, and experimenting with new recipes in the kitchen. Liam McGrane Philosophy/Computer Science Originally from the UK, Liam moved to NYC in 2019. Before that, a one-year stint at university for Architecture didn't quite go according to plan, and he worked for many years in retail and tutoring. Six years later, he decided to try furthering his education once again, this time at Columbia GS, where he’s looking to double major in Philosophy and Computer Science. Liam has worked on GSSC as Vice President of Campus Life and contributed to The Columbia Spectator as a cartoonist. His interests include writing, playing board games, and spending time with his wife. Hunter Rhoades Human Rights Hunter is originally from Alaska but has joyfully embraced urban life as a New Yorker. Before GS, he attended college part-time in several states before meeting his wife and enjoyed an eight-year career serving as a police supervisor, investigator, and SWAT officer. At Columbia, he is involved in men’s lightweight rowing and hopes to attend both divinity and law school, after which he hopes to re-enter public service as an attorney. In his spare time, Hunter enjoys NYC dining culture and is a loyal fan of the Metropolitan Opera. Raysa Schumacher Astrophysics Raysa was born in Colombia, but moved to Miami, Florida at six years old. She attended Florida International University right after high school, but decided that college was not the best decision at the time. She jumped into the workforce—working in the airline industry as a flight attendant and as an esthetician. Raysa decided to go back to college in spring 2019 to earn her Associate’s degree at Palm Beach State College. Upon graduation, she received admission to Columbia in 2020 to pursue her degree in Astrophysics. She hopes to continue on to graduate school to pursue a PhD. In her free time, Raysa enjoys reading, kayaking, crossfit, and spending time with her husband and dogs. Jennifer (Jenn) Todaro Archaeology Following high school, Jenn went to community college, earning an AA in Graphic Design. After over a decade of disinterest in her work, she decided to go back to school to pursue her newly-discovered, life-long passion for archaeology. Jenn and her husband arrived here from Pennsylvania in the fall of 2018, and have found a second home in NYC. In addition to her classes, Jenn is a fixture in the archaeology and osteology open labs and was previously involved with CUFSN. She’s currently the GS representative on the Libraries Student Advisory Committee, and plans to earn a PhD in tattoo archaeology. Jenn’s non-academic interests include science fiction and fantasy in any medium, hand-poke tattooing, and catching up with friends. Admissions Undergraduate Admissions Postbac Premed Admissions Newly Admitted Students U.S. Military Veterans International Dual Degree Programs Educational Financing Types of Financial Aid Financial Aid for Military Veterans Cost of Attendance Applying for Financial Aid Counseling Appointments Enrollment Update Form Student Account Refunds Academics Undergraduate Postbac Premed Program Applying to Medical School Academic Policies Faculty of Arts and Sciences Student Services Undergraduate Announcements Postbac Premed Announcements Academic Advising Academic Resource Center Campus Services Forms and Guides Graduation Health and Wellness Housing International Students Medical School Fair Planning Your Future Premedical Clinical and Research Positions Student Life Veterans Resources and Initiatives About Leadership Mission History Statistics and Facts Notable Alumni University Policies Events Staff Directory Faculty News Press Coverage Media Inquiries Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close