Skip to main content The University of Texas at Austin Menu Header Helpful Links Current Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Families & Visitors Search Search Maps Directory UT Direct Give Apply Search Search About Academics Academic Experience Areas of Study Extended Campus Cockrell School of Engineering College of Education College of Fine Arts College of Liberal Arts College of Natural Sciences College of Pharmacy Dell Medical School Graduate School Jackson School of Geosciences LBJ School of Public Affairs McCombs School of Business Moody College of Communication School of Architecture School of Information School of Law School of Nursing Steve Hicks School of Social Work School of Undergraduate Studies Admissions & Aid Be a Longhorn What Starts Here Changes the World. It's more than a motto. It’s what we prove each and every day, as Texas and its Exes advance discovery and innovation on a global stage. Join us. Undergraduate Admissions Graduate Admissions School of Law Admissions Dell Medical School Admissions Tuition & Costs Financial Aid Campus Visits Campus & Community Explore Your Passions Thousands of events, from concerts and film screenings to readings and lectures. More than 1,100 student organizations. Incredible facilities and special attractions. And it's all set in the heart of one of the world's greatest cities. Welcome home. Arts & Culture Campus Destinations Entrepreneurship & Innovation Health & Wellness Housing & Dining Life in Austin Report Misconduct Safety & Security Student Involvement Longhorn Resources Research Change the World Longhorns are passionate about making the world a better place, united by the belief that creating and sharing knowledge can save lives and transform society. Come explore our vast research enterprise — or better yet, create, innovate and discover with us. Overview Student Research Units & Centers Off-Campus Research Sites Libraries Experts Guide Athletics News Home Here, We’re Creating a More Vibrant Texas Here, We’re Creating a More Vibrant Texas The university was built by and for the state to make a more vibrant Texas — culturally, scientifically, economically. This state looks to The University of Texas at Austin to fulfill two major missions. Education We provide young Texans — no matter their circumstance — an education on par with the greatest universities in the world. This university plays a key role in the upward mobility of Texas families, and UT is expanding financial aid to incoming undergraduates. And Answers We provide solutions for a changing state. Planet Texas 2050 examines the problems of rapid population growth and accelerates solutions to provide clean water, reliable electricity, and a sound infrastructure. UT Serves the State by Providing Valuable Research and Data The Bureau of Economic Geology has been critical to Texas’ leadership in the energy sector since 1909. Our Marine Science Institute in Port Aransas pursues science with a high impact on Texas’ Gulf Coast. UT’s Institute for Urban Policy Research and Analysis provides empirical data to lawmakers on the state’s black communities. UT’s Hogg Foundation for Mental Health is a resource for state policymakers striving to promote the well-being of people across Texas. A Promoter of Excellence in K-12 As home to the University Interscholastic League, we touch the lives of more than 800,000 Texas students each year. The UIL provides a framework for healthy competition in sports, music and academics. A Protector of What Makes Our State Unique As the keeper of the Texas Botanic Garden — the Lady Bird Johnson Wildflower Center, UT promotes our state’s unique natural heritage. And as home to the Texas State Historical Association, we are the keeper of Texas’ past. A Cultural and Scientific Crossroads Our cultural collections in the arts and humanities, especially the Blanton Museum of Art and the Harry Ransom Center — draw visitors and scholars from around the globe. Scientific units such as Dell Medical School, the Texas Advanced Computing Center, McDonald Observatory and Marine Science Institute push the frontiers of knowledge in a way that engages the public. An Economic Accelerator Campus organizations like Longhorn Startup, the IC2 Institute, and the Innovation Center act as a bridge to entrepreneurs and business leaders and generate opportunities for real-world education, funding, and commercialization of student and faculty ideas. A Place All Texans Can Be Proud Of And for more than a century, student-athletes have been representing UT both on land and in water. Texas Longhorns have made this state proud with more than 50 national championships. Saving the planet starts at home Texas’ population could double by the year 2050. Extreme weather events will bring more floods, droughts, and heat. Our state’s resources can’t support those demands. Making Texas resilient is our grand challenge. Learn More Longhorns Serving Texas Read how students, young alumni and faculty members are working to make Texas a safer, healthier, more vibrant place to live. Learn More We Prepare Teachers. They Change the World. In 1997, UT launched the UTeach program as a way to recruit undergraduate STEM majors to the teaching profession. Today, 46 universities in 22 states and the District of Columbia are implementing UTeach programs that prepare STEM teachers for secondary classrooms. Learn more First-Class is Public We Do High-Impact Research We’re Transforming Health Care We Create a More Vibrant Texas Connect with UT Austin Subscribe to our newsletter Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkedIn YouTube Starts With You Footer Helpful Links Access Course Syllabi and Instructor CVs Campus Carry Contact Counseling and Mental Health Diversity and Inclusion Action Plan Diversity, Equity, and Disability Resources ♿ Emergency Information Fraud, Waste, or Abuse Hazing Prevention and Response HEERF/CARES Act Compliance Jobs Online Institutional Resumes Public Forum On Campus Site Policies State of Texas Statewide Search Texas Homeland Security Texas Veterans Portal Title IX Reporting (Sexual Misconduct) UT System Web Accessibility Policy Web Privacy Policy © The University of Texas at Austin 2022