Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. Human Resources HR right arrow down arrow Current Employees right arrow down arrow Staff Success Center Employment & Income Verification Holidays & Winter Season Days Student Employees Affiliated Faculty UC Retirees and Former Employees right arrow down arrow UC Retirees Former Employees Unions right arrow down arrow AAUP AFSCME FOP-ECD FOP-SO FOP-Supervisors FOP-ULEO IUOE ONA SEIU Work at UC Contact Us Home » Employees » Human Resources » Affiliated Faculty Affiliated Faculty Members Tuition Remission With approval by their ‘home’ institution, Affiliated faculty members are eligible for tuition remission for themselves and their eligible dependents on the same basis as a full time UC faculty or staff member. The tuition remission program for Affiliated faculty members pays the instructional and general fees for eligible individuals who take courses at the University of Cincinnati. The tuition remission program for dependents (spouse/domestic partner/unmarried dependent children) pays the instructional fee (tuition) only for eligible dependents who take courses at the University of Cincinnati. General fees, books, room and board, late fees, application fees, confirmation fees, etc., are not covered by tuition remission. Eligible Dependents (of an eligible Affiliated faculty member): Legal spouse Same or opposite sex domestic partner Unmarried child. For this purpose, child means (1) a biological child, (2) a stepchild, (3) an adopted child/or child legally placed for adoption, (4) or child for whom the Affiliated faculty member been appointed legal guardian by a court of competent jurisdiction. Verification documents are required. Children must be the Affiliated faculty member’s tax dependent in order to be eligible. Affiliated faculty members who wish to request tuition remission benefits (for themselves or eligible dependents) must complete the Tuition Remission Application at the link below. The form must include any applicable documentation and required signatures. In all cases, the form must be signed by the appropriate representative of the ‘home’ institution and submitted along with the required documentation to the email address on the form. Affiliated Faculty Tuition Remission Application Questions may be directed to benefits@uc.edu. Human Resources 340 University Hall 51 Goodman Dr. Cincinnati, OH 45221-0039 513-556-6381 PO Box 210039 UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati Human Resources 340 University Hall 51 Goodman Dr. Cincinnati, OH 45221-0039 513-556-6381 PO Box 210039 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top