Skip to site alert. Skip to content Herbert Irving Comprehensive Cancer Center (HICCC) - New York Refer a Patient Giving Locations Contact Make an Appointment Search About Us About Us Message from the Director Mission, Vision, and Guiding Principles About the Herbert Irving Comprehensive Cancer Center The Irving Family Diversity, Equity, & Inclusion (DEI) Leadership Our Members Giving News Our 50th Anniversary Upcoming Programs and Events Contact Us HICCC Annual Report Explore the past year of cancer research and care at the Herbert Irving Comprehensive Cancer Center. Read the Report For Patients For Patients Find a Doctor Make an Appointment Locations What to Expect Get a Second Opinion Patient Stories Refer a Patient Keeping You Safe Video Visits Make an Appointment Our dedicated access representatives can help you make an appointment today. Make an Appointment Cancer Types and Care Cancer Types and Care Cancer Types Cancer Care Clinical Trials Cancer Types Amyloidosis Anal Cancer Bladder Cancer Brain and Spinal Tumors Breast Cancer Cervical Cancer Childhood and Adolescent Cancers Colon and Rectal Cancer Esophageal Cancer Gestational Trophoblastic Disease Head and Neck/Oral Cancers Kidney Cancer/Adrenal Cancer Leukemia Liver Cancer Lung Cancer Lymphoma Melanoma Multiple Myeloma Myelodysplastic Syndrome Ovarian Cancer Pancreatic Cancer Prostate Cancer Rare Blood Disorders Sarcoma Stomach Cancer Testicular Cancer Thyroid Cancer Uterine Cancer Vaginal Cancer Vulvar Cancer Screening and Outreach Screening and Outreach Screening and Risk Reduction Community Outreach and Engagement Screening and Risk Reduction How to Reduce the Risk of Cancer Reducing Second Cancer Risk Screening for Cancer Genetic Testing and Cancer Educational Resources Community Outreach and Engagement We work with our communities and patients to remove access barriers to cancer prevention, screening, treatment and survivorship services. Learn About Our Efforts Research Research Programs Laboratories Membership Shared Resources For Researchers Programs Cancer Genomics and Epigenomics Cancer Population Science Precision Oncology and Systems Biology Tumor Biology and Microenvironment Research Laboratories Learn about the research being pursued by members of the Herbert Irving Comprehensive Cancer Center. Explore Our Research Education Education Continuing Medical Education (CME) Educational Seminar Series Trainee Associate Member Program Cancer Research Training and Education Coordination Core (CRTEC) Educational Opportunities Division of Hematology/Oncology Department of Radiation Oncology Training at HICCC We're dedicated to developing the next generation of researchers and physicians through cross-disciplinary training and fellowship programs Clinical Trial Shows Promise in Combination Therapy for Gastric Adenocarcinoma April 19, 2022 Gulam A. Manji, MD, PhD Dr. Gulam Manji presented results from a phase II clinical trial testing a combination therapy for resectable gastric cancer or gastroesophageal junction (GEJ) cancer at this year’s American Association for Cancer Research Annual Conference held April 8-12, 2022 in New Orleans, LA. What did this clinical trial evaluate? This phase II clinical trial tested the hypothesis that combination chemotherapy and pembrolizumab is effective in resectable gastric cancer or gastroesophageal junction (GEJ) cancer. Currently, the standard of care for locally advanced gastric or GEJ cancer is perioperative (before and after surgery) chemotherapy. Unfortunately, not all patients have success with this treatment, so more options are needed. On the other hand, only 3% of patients who receive triple combination chemotherapy (three different chemotherapy drugs at once) have their cancer grow while on therapy. A triple chemotherapy regimen for patients who can tolerate this aggressive treatment is the current standard. We tested a doublet chemotherapy combination (two chemotherapy drugs at once) that would be more tolerable for patients who may not be able to tolerate triple chemotherapy, such as older patients. What is pembrolizumab and why was it a viable potential option? We know from previous studies that an immune checkpoint inhibitor (ICI) like pembrolizumab in combination with chemotherapy is effective for metastatic gastric or GEJ cancer whose tumors express PD-L1, a protein that acts as a kind of ‘brake’ on the immune system. We hypothesized that it could be effective for locally advanced (resectable) gastric or GEJ cancer for patients whose tumors do not express PD-L1. ICIs work by taking the brake off the immune system, giving the immune system a ‘boost’ to search and destroy cancer cells. The challenge is that sometimes, ICIs need a little more of a boost to work, which is why this trial tests a combination of pembrolizumab with chemotherapy. What did the study find? The results are very encouraging. We found that the combination therapy resulted in a complete pathological response (no viable cancer cells) in 20.6% of patients, and a near-complete response (single or rare small groups off cancer cells) in 17.6% of patients. The study is still following patients, but we can estimate that 60% of patients will have no sign of their cancer at 2 years after treatment, which is a very good result. On top of that, the combination therapy was well-tolerated and most patients had limited side effects. A third of the patients on the study were older than 70 years old, suggesting that older patients can tolerate the combination. Preliminary results from multiplex immunofluorescence performed on pre-treatment biopsy and on-treatment surgical resections suggest an increase in immune cell infiltration despite of response. We also collected biopsies from patients before and during treatment, and our preliminary analysis suggest that immune cells increased in patients regardless of how they responded clinically to the therapy. Using machine learning algorithms, we identified a ‘signature’ for response to the therapy, using 39 features from the biopsy samples. A test set from biopsy samples was able to accurately identify pathological complete responses in 82% of the cases, which could be helpful in clinical decision-making. What are next steps with the study? Our results of the phase II trial provide an optimistic outlook. There is an ongoing phase 3 study testing triplet and doublet chemotherapy combination with pembrolizumab. We are planning an additional analysis to validate the predictive signature identified via machine learning algorithms. If validated, our preliminary predictive signature for response will impact patient selection for chemotherapy and pembrolizumab combination in resectable gastric and GE junction adenocarcinoma. Columbia University Irving Medical Center NewYork-Presbyterian ColumbiaDoctors About Us For Patients Cancer Types and Care Screening and Outreach Research Education Contact Us Make an Appointment Columbia University Herbert Irving Comprehensive Cancer Center 1130 St. Nicholas Avenue 2nd Floor, Room 201 New York, NY 10032 United States Follow Us Facebook Twitter YouTube Back to top