Giving Skip to content Skip to primary navigation Skip to search box Skip to admissions quick links Skip to secondary navigation Skip to breadcrumb TC Menu Search for people, news & websites Go Resource Links Prospective Students Current Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Quick Links Columbia Library myTC Directory Apply Now Request Info Search Bar Primary Navigation About Academics Admission & Aid Faculty & Research News Give to TC Giving to Teachers College GIVE NOW Secondary Navigation Main Annual Giving Annual Giving Learn more about Annual Giving Give to TC Giving Tuesday Make an Immediate Impact Annual giving provides crucial operating support to TC. Every gift, no matter the amount, goes directly in support of teaching and learning at Teachers College. Contact the TC Fund: Susan Scherman, Senior Director, Omnichannel Marketing (e) scherman@tc.columbia.edu (p) 212 678-8176 Planned Giving Planned Giving Charitable Bequests Gifts of Retirement Plan Assets Gifts that Provide Income Charitable Trusts Gifts of Life Insurance Grace Dodge Society Make an Legacy Gift A planned gift can help you maximize your charitable donations to TC by employing strategies and choosing gift options tailored to your particular needs and goals. Contact us about Planned Giving: (e) giftplan@tc.columbia.edu (p) 212 678-3231 Ways to Give Ways to Give International Giving Giving From Hong Kong Giving From the UK Ways to Give There are many ways to give to Teachers College. Questions about ways to give? Contact us: Susan Scherman, Senior Director, Omnichannel Marketing (e) scherman@tc.columbia.edu (p) 212 678-8176 Campaign Alumni GIVE NOW TC Giving Teachers College is where the future comes first. As the nation’s first and largest graduate school of education, TC is globally recognized as the birthplace of new ideas, practices and fields of inquiry in education, psychology and health. Today, our faculty, students and 90,000 alumni and friends are extending TC’s legacy around the world. Learn how you can make a difference by supporting Teachers College. Annual Giving Your annual gift supports all aspects of teaching and learning at the College, including our world-class faculty, student financial aid, visionary programs, groundbreaking research, and so much more. Learn More GIVE NOW The TC Fund Thank You John Dewey Circle Our most generous donors Learn More John Dewey Circle Maxine Greene Society Our most loyal donors Learn More Maxine Greene Society More About Annual Giving Major Gifts & Naming Opportunities Major Gifts and Naming Opportunities A major gift to Teachers College provides essential resources for the College to prepare the next generation of leaders, educators and innovators to create a smarter, healthier and more equitable world. Learn More TC Student Scholarship Support Scholarships By supporting scholarship, you put the transformative power of a TC education within reach of the most talented and promising students in education, psychology and health Learn More Ruth Gottesman and Student Support Faculty and Programs By supporting faculty and programs you contribute to the rich intellectual environment that is TC, enabling our faculty to forge new fields and develop innovative new programs that better education and all areas of human development. Learn More Lisa Miller SMBI More About Supporting our Future Planned Giving What is Planned Giving? A planned gift can help you maximize your charitable donations to TC by employing strategies and choosing gift options tailored to your particular needs and goals Learn More TC Way Planned Giving Options Explore the many ways to establish a planned gift to Teachers College Learn More Barbara Streisand The Grace Dodge Society The Grace Dodge Society recognizes individuals who have generously provided for Teachers College in their will, trust or other planned gifts Learn More Grace Dodge Society Talk With Us You have questions about Planned Giving? We have answers Contact Us TC Way Tile More About Planned Giving Ways to Give There are many ways to give to Teachers College. Credit Card Make a gift using a major credit card online through our secure form GIVE NOW Check Your check should be made payable to Teachers College, Columbia University. To be sure that your gift is properly credited, please note the purpose or designation of the gift. Teachers College, Columbia University Box 306, 525 West 120th Street New York, NY 10027-669 Gifts of Stock or Wire Transfers of Cash To make a gift of stock, or to conduct a wire transfer of cash to TC’s account, please see the instructions herein. Learn More IRA Make a gift by naming TC as a beneficiary of a qualified retirement account. Learn More International Giving If you are outside the U.S. and wish to make a gift online, please use our special form. Additional options are available to alumni and friends in Hong Kong and the UK. Learn More Matching Gifts Many companies match employee charitable donations. Ask your HR department if your gift to TC can be matched Corporate & Foundation Giving Corporate and Foundation Relations (CFR) cultivates and maintains relationships with grant-making organizations that have funding interests aligned with the College’s mission Learn More More About Ways to Give Campaign Impact Carousel How the Future Was Won TC’s Campaign raised a record $345 million. Both the money – and the way it was raised – will strengthen the College in creating a better world Read More Campaign Stories Alumni A worldwide network of 90,000 alumni advance the work and reputation of Teachers College by contributing to the public good around the world. No matter where in the world our alumni go, they will always remain a vital and vibrant part of the TC community! Learn how to stay engaged with TC as an alum by volunteering, attending regional events, nominating peers for alumni awards and connecting with us online. If you have questions or feedback about your alumni experience, the Office of Alumni Relations would love to hear from you! Please feel free to contact us at 212-678-3215 or tcalumni@columbia.edu. Volunteer Learn More Volunteer Opportunities Events Learn More Alumni Events Awards Read More Alumni Awards Stay Connected Learn More Alumni Stay Connected Contact Us Institutional Advancement Address: 193 Grace Dodge Hall Box: 306 * Phone: (212) 678-3231 * Email: fund@tc.columbia.edu Contact Us Teachers College, Columbia University 525 West 120th Street New York, NY 10027 Tel: +1 (212) 678-3000 Map & Directions Directory Ask a Question Resources Admission & Aid Student Life Courses Academic Calendar Office of the Registrar Office of Teacher Education TC NEXT Employment Legal Consumer Information / Student Right to Know Legal Notices Policy Library Non-Discrimination Title IX Compliance Ethics Reporting Public Safety GDPR Notice Make a Gift to TC Diversity Work at TC TC Facebook TC Twitter TC Instagram TC Youtube TC LinkedIn © 2022, Teachers College, Columbia University, New York, NY 10027. Back to skip to quick links