Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Health Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Our Services Appointments Health Topics Events Forms and Guidelines Our Organization News See All Services What's Open Now Patient Resources Quarantine and Isolation Support Coping Tools Immunization Compliance Top Services Birth Control Education Individual Counseling Primary Care Register with Disability Services Sexual Assault: Get Support STI Testing Support Groups Travel Medicine Urgent Medical Concerns Workshops and Trainings Cost of Service Overview Make an Appointment Same Day Service Emergency and After-hours Support Alcohol Body Image Concerns Marijuana Disabilities Other Drugs HIV Insurance Men's Health Mental Health and Well-Being Anxiety Depression Stress Nutrition Physical Activity Relationships Overview Academic Relationships Friendships Roommates Sexual and Reproductive Health Sleep Transgender and Gender Expansive Health Violence Prevention Prevention Consent What Is Sexual Assault? Supporting a Survivor What Is Relationship Abuse? Stalking What Is Sexual Harassment? Bystander Intervention-Step UP! Women's Health See All Events Sexual Assault Awareness Month Columbia Health Flu Season Information Virtual Naloxone Training About Columbia Health Who We Are Who We Serve Confidentiality, Patient Rights, & Patient Responsibilities Operating Philosophy Video Library Your Feedback Staff Directory Health Units Alice! Health Promotion Counseling and Psychological Services Disability Services Gay Health Advocacy Project (GHAP) Insurance Office Medical Services Sexual Violence Response Columbia Health You are here: Home Justice on the Reservation Events Past Event Justice on the Reservation Share Add to Calendar: Calendar / Outlook Google Yahoo April 19, 2018 4:00 PM - 6:00 PM Columbia School of Nursing, 560 W. 168 St., New York, NY 10032 Conf Rm 114 Show Map The panel will explore, bring awareness and educate students, faculty and staff on the systemic barriers to Native Americans seeking legal and advocacy services in response to sexual violence. • Amy Casselman is an adjunct professor at San Francisco State University and the author of Injustice in Indian Country: Jurisdiction, American Law, and Sexual Violence Against Native Women (2015). • Christine Stark is co-author of Garden of Truth: The Prostitution and Trafficking of Native Women in Minnesota. • Brenda Hill is a member of the Siksika Blackfoot Tribe and founder of the Women’s Circle Victims’ Support Program. • Jaskiran Dhillon is an Anthropology and Global Studies Assistant professor at the New School (NYC), who grew up on Treaty Six Cree Territory in Saskatchewan, Canada. RSVP Here: https://saamjusticeonthereservation.eventbrite.com Upcoming Events Columbia Health Administration Wallach Hall, Suite 125, Mail Code 4202, 1116 Amsterdam Avenue · New York, NY 10027 Phone 212-854-2284 Contact Us [email protected] Internal Use Only Login to Access Follow Us Facebook Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close