Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Engineering Technology Future Students Current Students Research People About Accreditation Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact Take Action ET Degree Programs Herff College of Engineering Contact Us Home Engineering Technology Future Students Future Students Take an interactive tour of the campus and go behind the scenes as our IEEE Robotics team prepares for a competition. Memphis Engineering Technology By the Numbers 240 undergrads are currently enrolled in our engineering technology program 7 fields of study: Automation & Control Systems, Mechanical Systems Design, Microprocessor Systems, Operations Strategy & Lean Principles, Product Realization, Software Design, System/Network Administration 3 Broad Sectors served by ET: Manufacturing (including distribution and logistics), Electronics and Automated Control Systems and Computer Systems Affiliated with 2 state-of-the-art research labs: the Automatic Identification Lab (AutoID), positioned to promote the usage of all AutoID technologies: bar coding, radio frequency identification (RFID), biometrics magnetic stripe and smart cards, and the Metrology Lab, promoting precision measurement opportunities to support various industries including manufacturing. Undergraduate Program The Department of Engineering Technology offers a Bachelor of Science in Engineering Technology. This degree program is comprised of a comprehensive core and various fields of study from which the student may select in order to best fulfill their needs and interests. To accommodate students who work during the day, the department as a complete night rotation of courses making it possible to earn a degree in the evenings. For students who choose to gain valuable work experience while completing their degree requirements, the Department of Engineering Technology has a cooperative education (co-op) program. The co-op program adds relevance to education and introduces the student to the work environment and career possibilities in their field of study. For more information on the cooperative education program in the Herff College of Engineering, contact Ms. Shelia Moses, Academic Services Coordinator, at srmoses@memphis.edu or 901.678.4933. Students transferring into the department with an Associate of Science degree in an Engineering Technology discipline from an accredited institution may only need to complete an additional 60 semesters hours (2 years) of study to earn the B S in Engineering Technology. Preparation to earn a BS in Engineering Technology should begin in high school by completing algebra, trigonometry, geometry, physics and chemistry. Study should be concentrated on these courses as well as those that develop oral and written communications skills. Apply Now for Undergraduate Admission!! Graduate Program The Department of Engineering Technology also offers a graduate program leading to the Master of Science degree in Engineering Technology. Students may select coursework in Computers and/or Electronics and/or Manufacturing. Students may elect to design their own course of study taken from the courses offered in these areas. Apply Now for Graduate Admission!! Laboratory Facilities Laboratory facilities are available for a variety of instructional activities. Facilities include the microprocessor / microcomputer laboratory, two electronics laboratories, the digital circuits laboratory, the robotics laboratory, the machinery laboratory, and two general purpose computer applications laboratories with Windows and Unix systems. A continual process of laboratory improvement maintains the quality of the laboratory experiences. The equipment used in laboratories is the same as that used in industry. The computational environment is state-of-the-art and contains both wired and wireless access to a campus-wide network, including Internet II. Extensive packages of both general-purpose and discipline-specific software and hardware are available to support your engineering studies. Academic Resources Semester Calendars Catalog: Graduate Catalog: Graduate Class Listings ET Course Rotation Schedule ET Policies and Guidelines for Acceptance of Transfer Credit ET Procedure for Registering for Classes Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 3/28/22 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.