Skip to main content Temple University Explore Temple’s Schools and Colleges Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Support Temple Temple University Search Site Search Full Menu Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees President History & Traditions Temple Health News & Media Offices Public Information Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Development Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Libraries Media Studies and Production Major You are here Home Academics Degrees and Programs Media Studies and Production Major Apply Visit Request More Info Media Studies and Production Major Admissions Careers, Internships & Opportunities Required Courses Research & Facilities Scholarships & Financial Aid Bachelor of Arts in Media Studies and Production Launch your career as a multifaceted media professional with the Bachelor of Arts in Media Studies and Production in the Lew Klein College of Media and Communication at Temple University. At the intersection of theory and practice, this program takes you beyond the typical scope of a communication or broadcasting degree, teaching you both the "why" and "how" behind everything a media professional does. The energized and highly collaborative Media Studies and Production Major provides the professional development and training necessary to contribute to the ever-evolving media landscape—now and in the future. Graduates of this program are well-positioned for success in a range of industries, from advertising, marketing and business to news and entertainment. Through the Bachelor of Arts in Media Studies and Production, you will learn how to create content for an array of media outlets; how to produce and engineer both sound and video using cutting-edge equipment; how to harness mass media to inform, influence and entertain audiences; the history and evolution of media, including cultural and gender representations; and the legal and ethical issues intertwined with producing media. Located in Philadelphia, the nation’s fourth-largest media market, your courses extend beyond the classroom and into the city. Career development, internships and other networking opportunities abound in Philadelphia, enabling you to begin your career well before you graduate. Find Your Focus As a student in the Media Studies and Production Major, you can choose one of three tracks that focus your studies on the subject matter that best aligns with your passions and goals. Regardless of your selection, you are not limited to one track and may take classes across all areas. Media Analysis: Develop critical understanding of the roles of media in contemporary life. Students who select this track are prepared for careers as community activists, corporate communication producers, editorial or technical writers, market research analysts, media consultants and media scholars, among many other possibilities. Media Business: Investigate the business decisions, creative approaches and ethical responsibilities of media managers and media entrepreneurs in the digital age. Students who select this track are prepared for careers as executive producers; founders/owners of a digital channel, production company, recording studio or website development company; network executives; program developers; and talent agents. Media Production: Gain the conceptual and technical skills necessary to function as on-air talent, make effective behind-the-scenes decisions, and create content for diverse media outlets and services. Students who select this track are prepared for careers as editors, producers, recording engineers, talent in traditional and emerging media, videographers, website designers and writers. Minor in Digital Media Technologies Expand your knowledge of the information age and learn to communicate using fast-evolving, emerging technologies. An interdisciplinary program, this minor is offered through the Department of Media Studies and Production within the Klein College of Media and Communication and the Department of Computer and Information Sciences within the College of Science and Technology. Students who complete the program will be prepared to use technology to integrate internet content with computers and mobile devices, critically analyze decisions made regarding the use of technology, and understand the impact of current and emerging technologies on communications. Learn more about this minor. CONTACT Sally Kyvernitis is the Computer and Information Services Department program contact for this minor. Email: sallyk@temple.edu Phone: 215-204-2030 Hector Postigo is the Media Studies and Production Department program contact for this minor. Email: hector.postigo@temple.edu Phone: 215-204-7398 Classes & Curriculum The Bachelor of Arts in Media Studies and Production can be completed over four years of continuous, full-time study. Among the courses offered in this 124-credit degree program are the following. Audio Mixing/Audio Mastering The Business of Media Creative Scriptwriting Latin American Media Law and Ethics of Digital Media LGBT Representation in Media Media in Popular Culture Podcast and Radio Production Producing and Directing The Recording Industry and Music Business Sports Production Practicum Technology and Culture Travel Writing Special topics courses are also offered every term, with recent classes including Developing a Global Streaming Service, Hip Hop Media and Cultural Communication, Magical History Tour: The Story of the Beatles and Spanish in the Media. Learn more about courses and requirements for the Media Studies and Production Major. What sets apart our Media Studies and Production Major? Opportunities to work alongside talented peers: Our students work collaboratively in practicums, clubs, organizations and countless extracurricular activities. From podcasts to live TV, online magazines, radio, print and a record label, our program helps students find their passion, whether it be behind the scenes, on camera or in the newsroom. Through TUTV, Temple’s Emmy Award-winning cable station, our students have produced significant media in Philadelphia, including coverage of such high-profile events as the 2015 Papal Visit and the 2016 Democratic National Convention. A flexible, student-oriented program: Not only does our program allow students to learn and gain professional experience from multiple areas in Klein; it also provides access to various field experiences, internships and study away programs. Among the many study and intern away opportunities is the Acrosanti, Arizona spring break trip, during which students learn about sustainable communities, technology and media. Our renowned faculty: You will work with and learn from award-winning industry experts with decades of experience in broadcasting, reporting, production management and more. Our professors are analysts, authors, journalists, podcasters, producers and thought leaders. They are scholars in traditional and emerging schools of thought, with focuses that include new technology, media literacy and communication for social change. Plus One: Graduate with a master’s in five years. Earn your bachelor’s and master’s degrees in a total of five years with our Plus One program. In this accelerated program of study, undergraduate students begin taking graduate-level courses their junior year, satisfying requirements for the Media Studies and Production bachelor’s and master’s degrees at the same time. This program is creative and flexible, so students can choose courses that best align with their professional and academic goals. Contact Contact the following faculty member with questions about this program. Jan Fernback is the co-chair of the department. Email: fernback@temple.edu Concentrations You can focus on Media Studies and Production or you can take one of the following concentrations. International Communication Students in the International Communication Concentration (ICC) acquire a theoretical and practical education in international and intercultural communication and media. A unique opportunity for Klein students, this program allows you to obtain skills and knowledge in cultural sensitivity and intercultural communication by reflecting on your own cultural lens. Students participating in the ICC program are enlightened about various perspectives through an internationally and interculturally oriented curriculum. The program is offered on Temple’s domestic campuses, but students can supplement some coursework while studying abroad. View Concentration Details Related Graduate Degrees Communication Management MS Communication for Development and Social Change MS Master of Journalism Media and Communication PhD Media Studies and Production MA Related Graduate Certificates Cultural Analytics Tuition & Fees In keeping with Temple’s commitment to access and affordability, the Bachelor of Arts offers a competitive level of tuition with multiple opportunities for financial support. Tuition rates are set annually by the university and are affected by multiple factors, including program degree level (undergraduate or graduate), course load (full- or part-time), in-state or out-of-state residency, and more. Learn more about our tuition and fees. These tuition costs apply to the 2021–2022 academic year. Pennsylvania resident: $18,168.00 per year Out-of-state: $31,440.00 per year Our Academic Advisors Our academic advisors will help you stay on track to graduate and ensure you remain on a clear professional path. Walk-in advising is available in the first two weeks of the semester for students who need assistance with any registration issues. Express advising is available for students throughout the rest of the semester. Advisors answer routine questions in 15-minute sessions. For more in-depth, personalized assistance, students may make appointments. To schedule an appointment or ask a question, contact our advising office. Email: advise@temple.edu Phone: 215-204-5273 You can also contact the advising office through TUportal under the Klein College tab. The Klein Advising Office, which serves all Klein majors, is located at the following address. Student Affairs/Advising Annenberg Hall, Room 9 2020 N. 13th St. Philadelphia, PA 19122 Important Dates Our academic calendar includes an overview of all relevant upcoming dates. Learn more about academic advising in the Media Studies and Production Major. Program Contact Contact the Department of Media Studies and Production with additional questions. Department of Media Studies and Production Annenberg Hall, Room 205 Philadelphia, PA 19122 Hours: 9 a.m.–5 p.m. Sandra Kennedy is the office manager of the department. Email: msp@temple.edu Phone: 215-204-5401 Jan Fernback is the co-chair of the department. Email: fernback@temple.edu Matthew Lombard is the co-chair of the department. Email: lombard@temple.edu Rebecca Gollihur is the department director. Email: gollihur@temple.edu Explore the Media Studies and Production Major’s faculty and staff directory. Student Clubs & Organizations Joining a student organization can affect your career and college experience in meaningful ways. Not only will you learn how to work with a team, you’ll also gain access to exciting projects, peer support and valuable networking opportunities. Bell Tower Music is Temple University’s student-run record label. TUTV is Temple’s digital cable station with programming that includes Temple Update, A Broader View and OwlSports Update. WHIP Radio is Temple’s student-run internet radio station. Learn more about student clubs and organizations available to Media Studies and Production Major students. Study Away Take on new challenges, experiences and viewpoints in an array of academic settings in the U.S. or around the world, through the Media Studies and Production Major’s Global Opportunities programs. Our Global Opportunities programs create leaders in media and communication by providing opportunities to study and work while experiencing life in influential urban centers throughout the world. You have the option of studying or interning in more than 20 destinations in the U.S. and around the world, including Dublin, London, Los Angeles, South Africa and more. These study away programs are designed to not only enhance your marketability in the global workplace, but also to increase your cultural capital and support your personal growth. Learn more about study away programs for the Media Studies and Production Major. Questions Representatives from our Global Opportunities office are available to answer any questions you may have. Email: kleingo@temple.edu Phone: 215-204-2354 Accreditation Temple University’s departments and programs are accredited by the Middle States Commission on Higher Education. CO-MSP-BA Additional Program Information School/College Site View Program Details Go back to AcademicsMore in Media Studies and Production Major Admissions Careers, Internships & Opportunities Required Courses Research & Facilities Scholarships & Financial Aid Apply Visit Request More Info Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Calendar Policies Social Media TUportal TUmail Accessibility Careers at Temple Safety & Emergency Information Ethics & Compliance Privacy Statement Professional Licensure Disclosures Follow Temple University Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community. Apply Visit Request More Info