Skip to main content Submit Close Give to UH Search About Academics Admissions Campus Life Research Athletics Locations Sugar Land Katy UH Technology Bridge News & Events Giving UH Home Costs & Financial Aid Undergraduate Costs & Financial Aid Types of Aid Loans Alternative Loans Costs & Financial Aid Undergraduate Costs & Financial Aid How to Apply Tuition & Fees Types of Aid Cougar Emergency Fund COVID-19 Financial Aid Scholarships Grants Loans Alternative Loans B-On-Time Loan College Access Loan (CAL) Parent Federal PLUS Loans Perkins Loan William D. Ford Direct Loan Program Work-Study Financial Incentives Summer Aid Spring Aid Scholarships & Financial Aid Forms FAQs Undergraduate Admissions Financial Literacy Graduate Costs & Financial Aid Find your Financial Aid Advisor Payment Information Contact Us Alternative Loans About the Loan Interest Rate and Fees Loan Amount Application for Loans Offer of Loans Disbursement of Loans Maintenance of Loans Repayment of Loans About the Loan If a student does not qualify for federally funded loans, such as Federal Direct Subsidized or Federal Direct Unsubsidized Loans, the student may be able to finance their education with a private loan. Alternative loans are credit-based consumer loans that can be used for any educational related purpose. Most loans require that the applicant must have established credit history to be approved. For a list of alternative loan options, please visit this site. Interest Rate and Fees Interest rates vary based on the lender of choice and borrower's credit history. Loan Amount Borrowers may borrow up to the cost of attendance, minus other financial aid. Application for Loans Student will need to contact their chosen lender for an application. Offer of Loans Once the student's application has been processed, the student's account will be updated accordingly. In addition to their application, students will need to complete a Master Promissory Note (MPN) and disclosure statement with chosen lender. Disbursement of Loans Once the lender has sent us the loan funds, they will be applied to the student's account to cover any outstanding charges. If a credit balance is created, funds will be refunded to the student's BankMobile refund preference. Maintenance of Loans Lender requirements vary. Repayment of Loans Lender repayment options vary. Student will need to contact their lender for details of their repayment plans. Related Links Net Price Calculator Financial Aid FAQs Financial Literacy University of Houston Houston, Texas 77204 (713) 743-2255 A–Z Index Academic Calendar Campus Carry Policy Campus Map Career Opportunities Directory Emergency Information Get Help Human Resources Library Mental Health Resources Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Office of the President Parking Report Copyright Infringement Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness Open Records/Public Information Act Texas Veterans Portal Tuition & Fees UH System Virtual Tour ©2022 University of Houston. All rights reserved. Report a problem with this page Texas.gov Texas Homeland Security TRAIL Fraud Reporting Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Linking Notice Privacy Notice Open Records/Public Information Act Institutional Résumé Required Reports Electronic & Information Resources Accessibility Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness University Policies