Skip to main content Temple University Explore Temple’s Schools and Colleges Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Support Temple Temple University Search Site Search Full Menu Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees President History & Traditions Temple Health News & Media Offices Public Information Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Development Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Libraries Stage Management Certificate (Undergraduate) You are here Home Academics Degrees and Programs Stage Management Certificate (Undergraduate) Apply Request More Info Stage Management Certificate (Undergraduate) Admissions Stage Management Undergraduate Certificate Study all aspects of theater production including stage managing, backstage working, sound and lighting with the Stage Management Undergraduate Certificate in Temple’s School of Theater, Film and Media Arts. You’ll learn how successful live theater productions are managed, from page to stage. This undergraduate certificate is open to all students enrolled at Temple. The curriculum is tailored to give students opportunities to immerse themselves in the dynamic world of backstage theater, offering experiential learning both in the classroom and working on productions. Through the four-course, 12-credit certificate program, you can become involved in campus productions for academic credit. You’ll develop applicable creative, collaboration, leadership, presentation and public-speaking skills, preparing you for the professional world. Classes & Curriculum Required courses in the certificate program include Special Topics in Stage Management, Stage Management, Theater Management and Welcome Backstage. Learn more about coursework for the Stage Management Undergraduate Certificate. Related Graduate Certificates Documentary Arts and Ethnographic Research Related Graduate Degrees Theater-Acting MFA Theater-Directing MFA Musical Theater Collaboration MFA Theater-Playwriting MFA Tuition & Fees The tuition for this Certificate Program is based on school or college of your major, program degree level (undergraduate or graduate), course load (full- or part-time), in-state or out-of-state residency, and more. Learn more about our tuition and fees. Our Academic Advisors The School of Theater, Film and Media Arts academic advisors will help you chart your course through your academic program. Sachiko Nakazato is the academic advisor for the undergraduate certificate in Stage Management. Phone: 215-204-3437 Email: sachiko.nakazato@temple.edu Leanna Arnold is the senior academic advisor for the Center for the Performing and Cinematic Arts. Phone: 215-204-2227 Email: leanna.arnold@temple.edu Program Contact Matthew Miller is the faculty contact and head of Theater Education & Stage Management. Phone: 215-204-4263 Email: mbmiller@temple.edu Accreditation The Theater Department is accredited by the National Association of Schools of Theatre as well as a member of the University Resident Theatre Association. CA-STMA-CERT Additional Program Information Visit School Site View Program Details Go back to AcademicsMore in Stage Management Certificate (Undergraduate) Admissions Apply Request More Info Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Calendar Policies Social Media TUportal TUmail Accessibility Careers at Temple Safety & Emergency Information Ethics & Compliance Privacy Statement Professional Licensure Disclosures Follow Temple University Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community. Apply Request More Info