Skip to main content University of Texas at Austin Home My Accounts | Give University of Texas Libraries Menu University of Texas at Austin Home My Accounts | Give The University of Texas at Austin University of Texas Libraries Search Resources Search Website Search the library website Resources Website Search the library website Find, Borrow, Request Expand Find Materials Library Catalog Articles Databases Journals Course Materials Digital Collections Digital Exhibits Map Collection Geospatial Data Borrow and Request Borrow, Renew & Return Request from another Library (Interlibrary Loan) Get a Scan of a Book Chapter or Article Suggest a Purchase Remote Delivery for Off-Campus Users Research Help & Support Expand Get Help Ask a Librarian Citing Sources Research Guides Workshops University Writing Center Public Speaking Center Publishing & Scholarly Research Scholarly Communication Services Research Data Services GIS & Geospatial Data Services Open Education Services Digital Scholarship Texas Data Repository Texas ScholarWorks Teaching & Learning Teaching & Learning Support Contact your Subject Librarian Request Library Instruction Request Course Materials Study Spaces & Technology Expand Study Rooms Reserve a Study Room Collaborative & Quiet Study Spaces Closed Studies & Carrels Computers, Printing & Technology Print, Copy & Scan Computers, Software & Wifi Access Library Spaces Foundry Makerspace Learning Commons Scholars Commons UFCU Room Explore Spaces About the Libraries Expand General Information Locations Hours Visitor Information Collecting Areas Our Organization Mission, Vision & Values Library Administration Staff Directory Job Opportunities Policies and Guidelines Lending Policies Information for Users with Disabilities See all Policies Connect with Us News Events Give to the Libraries Home About the Libraries Locations Fine Arts Library Fine Arts Library The Foundry at the Fine Arts Library Quick Links Floor Plan See our Research Guides Our Staff Find your Subject Librarian Foundry Makerspace Future of the Fine Arts Library The Fine Arts Library (FAL) supports research and instruction in the College of Fine Arts, including the Butler School of Music, the School of Design and Creative Technologies and the Departments of Art and Art History and Theatre and Dance. The Library features collections related to various fields of fine arts and design, stewards the Visual Resource Collection and is home to the Foundry, a makerspace for all members of the campus community. Weekly Hours Placeholder Our Research Guides Visual Art Books, journals, and databases for visual arts research and information on the various art collections at UT. Images Resources for images, copyright and citing across disciplines at UT and beyond. Music These guides will help you get started researching music topics, finding scores and other materials you need. Theatre & Dance This guide will get you started with your research in Theatre & Dance, with finding plays, scenes, and monologues; with play analysis; and with theatrical design. Design Find books, journals, and databases for design research. Arts & Entertainment Technologies Find library resources for music production, game development, and new performance technologies. See all research guides Services and FAQ Services Borrowing Equipment Computers, Software & Wifi Access Print, Copy & Scan Our Collections Historical Music Recordings Collection The Historical Music Recordings Collection (HMRC) is an archive of audio recordings in all formats and contains approximately 300,000 items making it one of the largest archives of its kind in the USA. Within the HMRC two types of collections can be found: the general collection and the more specific, named collections. Visual Resources Collection The Visual Resources Collection in the Fine Arts Library consists of two important collections of images of art, architecture and design: an archival collection of some 550,000 slides, now housed at the Collections Deposit Library on the south side of campus, and a collection of over 96,000 digital images that can be used by all UT faculty, students and staff for their research and teaching and are available for viewing on DASE, one of UT’s digital repositories. Archival Collections and Special Holdings Includes the Austin Theatre Alliance Archive, Oscar G. Brockett Archive, Ezra William Doty Collection, Lynn Freeman Olson Collection, Michael Kostiuk Collection and Igor Youskevitch Collection. Audio/Visual Collection The Audio/Visual Collection includes compact discs, DVDs, audio and videocassettes, videodiscs, phonodiscs, and interactive media. Connect Facebook Twitter Fine Arts Library Location: Doty Fine Arts Building 3.200 2306 Trinity St. Austin, Texas 78712 Mailing Address: 2306 Trinity St. Stop S5437 Austin, Texas 78712 Phone: 512-495-4481 Fax: 512-495-4490 Fine Arts Library & Foundry News Aug. 21, 2018 — Second Annual Lone Star Zine Fest Happening 9/2 Aug. 3, 2018 — Summer Support Ramps Up with Two New Endowments July 30, 2018 — Tex Libris: Whit's Picks - Gems from the HMRC March 8, 2018 — Excessive Noise Turns Six with "Green Paw" Jan. 23, 2018 — Students Print 6-String Violin in The Foundry (Video) Dec. 12, 2017 — Fine Arts Library Updates Nov. 6, 2017 — Library of Congress Archivist Shares Dance Preservation Techniques and Expertise Nov. 1, 2017 — Artist Yuliya Lanina is Resident at The Foundry Nov. 1, 2017 — Artists’ Books on Display at Fine Arts Oct. 12, 2017 — New Design Program Space Opens at Fine Arts See all news for this location University of Texas Libraries Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube Contact Us Maps & Directions Job Opportunities Material Usage Statement Service Alerts UT Austin Home Emergency Information Site Policies Web Accessibility Policy Web Privacy Policy Adobe Reader Subscribe to our Newsletter Give to the Libraries © The University of Texas at Austin 2022