Skip to main content Skip to main content my.SMU News & Events Library Master Calendar Skip to main content Apply Apply Give Give Contact Us Contact Us Follow Us Follow Us Facebook Follow Us Google+ Follow Us Twitter Follow Us LinkedIn Follow Us Tumblr Follow Us YouTube Follow Us Instagram Follow Us Social Stream Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. Navigate Search Social SMU Facebook SMU Google Plus SMU Twitter SMU LinkedIn SMU Tumblr SMU YouTube SMU Instagram Skip to main content Law About About Dean's Welcome Diversity and Inclusion Fast Facts Living & Studying in Dallas Why SMU Dedman Law? Academics Academics Academic Advising Academic Calendar Registrar's Office Academic Success Program (ASP) Bar Exam Resources Course Schedules and Registration Information Degree Programs Experiential Learning Externship Programs Forms Law Journals Planning Your Academic Program Study Abroad in Oxford Admissions Admissions Costs and Financial Aid FAQs J.D. Programs Graduate Programs How to Apply Meet Our Students Visiting SMU Virtual Tour of SMU Contact Admissions Alumni & Giving Alumni & Giving 2022 Alumni Happy Hours 2022 Reunion Weekend Alumni Chapters Career Services Class Notes Community Fellows Contact Alumni Relations Distinguished Alumni Awards Emerging Leader Board Executive Board Get Involved Law Firm Challenge Publications Update Alumni Information Career Services Career Services Students Employers Alumni Employment Statistics Career Services Team Contact Office of Career Services Reciprocity Centers & Initiatives Centers & Initiatives Jennifer M. Collins Women's Leadership Initiative Judge Elmo B. Hunter Legal Center For Victims of Crimes Against Women Robert B. Rowling Center for Business Law & Leadership Tsai Center for Law, Science and Innovation W. W. Caruth, Jr. Institute for Children's Rights Deason Criminal Justice Reform Center Clinics Clinics W.W. Caruth, Jr. Child Advocacy Clinic Civil/Consumer Clinic COVID-19 Legal Helpline Criminal Clinic Family Immigration Detention Clinic Federal Tax Clinic First Amendment Clinic Judge Elmo B. Hunter Legal Center for Victims of Crimes Against Women Innocence Clinic Patent Law Clinic Small Business and Trademark Clinic VanSickle Family Law Clinic Faculty Faculty Conferences, Symposia & Lecture Series Faculty Expertise Faculty in the News Faculty Profiles Research Public Service Public Service Completing Your Public Service Graduation Requirement Pre-Approved Placements Forms FAQs Planning a Public Service Career Internships & Fellowships Public Advocate Day Contact Public Service Program Staff Volunteer Income Tax Assistance (VITA) - Overview for law students only Students Students Office of Student Affairs Office of Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Financial Frequently Used Resources Graduation Information Inns of Court Program Mustang Exchange Scholarships and Writing Competitions Student Code of Professional Responsibility Student Organizations ☰ Law Academics Externship Programs Externship Programs SMU’s Externship Programs provide students with the opportunity to learn by doing. Students work in carefully selected legal settings under the supervision of a mentor-attorney and a member of the law faculty. During their externship, student externs observe and participate in lawyering tasks, gaining both valuable skills and a sense of the kind of lawyer they wish to become. In addition, externships foster sensitivity to the social, political and professional implications of the legal process. Externship Programs Externships at SMU include both work in a legal setting and an associated class designed to help the extern get the most out of the experience. There are four classes, each of which is associated with a cluster of externships: Corporate Counsel Externship Fall only; 4 credits for field placement + class The Corporate Counsel Externship Program is a four-hour academic program that combines a two-hour corporate counsel course with externships in corporate legal departments. Third-year law students work 10 hours per week in DFW corporate legal departments in exchange for two hours of academic credit. In class, students explore substantive areas of the law as well as practical skills like working with outside counsel. Many of our students want to work in-house at some point in their careers and this academic program gives them a glimpse of what that is like. It also allows them to gain practical legal experience and learn important soft skills. This fall 85 students are placed with 85 different DFW companies, matched as closely as possible based on their practice area or industry interests. For example, a Russian JD student was placed with Mary Kay where she was able to use her language and legal skills on a transaction for the company in Russia. Students interested in sports law have been placed with the Cowboys, Mavericks, Stars and Texas Rangers. Externships run September through November. Each participating company designates a lawyer in their department to act as the student’s field supervisor, and Dean Yeager serves as the faculty supervisor. Students apply to participate in the prorgam in March of their 2L year. For information, email Steve Yeager. Federal Judicial Externship Fall and spring; 3 credits for field placement + class Students participating in this externship are individually selected by federal judges for their chambers, to work directly with the judge and his/her law clerks on pending matters. A 5th Circuit Appellate Judge, and 19 additional U.S. District Court, Magistrate and Bankruptcy Judges in Dallas, Plano, Fort Worth and Sherman participate. Externs in this program also take a related class that reflects on the role of federal judges and courts, and enhances the students’ research and writing skills. Government & Public Interest Externship Fall, spring, summer; 3-4 credits for field placement + class Students apply directly to the field placements to be selected for the opportunity to participate in these government and public interest placements. In addition, students must enroll in a weekly class that explores the role of the lawyer in public service, helps students achieve their learning goals, and encourages reflection on the externship experience. Students should watch for announcements regarding opportunities to apply for many of these externships through the Office of Career Services. Students must register for the classroom component of the externship in order to receive credit for the Corporate Counsel Externship or Federal Judicial Externship. Beginning in the fall of 2017, students must register for the Government & Public Interest Externship class in order to receive credit for the first externship they do that falls within that program. Field Placements within the Government & Public Interest Externship Program: For information about pre-approved placements and how to apply for them or how to create a new field placement that qualifies for academic credit within the Government & Public Interest Externship, email Laura Burstein. All credit for externships is governed by these rules. Click here for Answers to Frequently Asked Questions About our externship programs. Small and Mid-Size Firm Externship Spring only; 3 credits for field placement + class Combines a weekly classroom component with hands-on experience in a law firm. The class provides practical skills and information addressing: time keeping, marketing, networking, professionalism and ethics, presentation skills, drafting skills, deposition skills, the importance of both internal and external relationships, and the importance of asking for and responding to feedback. For more information, please email Marcie Davis, mydavis@smu.edu. Externship Programs Academic Goals and Student Evaluation Corporate Counsel Externship Program Establishing New Externship Placements Externship Requirements Federal Judicial Externship Program Government and Public Interest Externship Program Apply Request info Library Business Office Get Help Now News Media Emergency / Safety Admissions Office / FAQs Department Directory Consumer Information (ABA Required Disclosures) Contact Us Maps and Directions Legal Disclosures © SMU Dedman School of Law 3315 Daniel Avenue, Dallas, TX 75205 facebook google twitter linkedin tumblr youtube instagram