Skip to main content SMU Explore SMU Academics Student Affairs About News Events Calendar SMU Research Bush Center Current Students Alumni Faculty & Staff Apply to SMUGIVE NOW Undergraduate Admission Apply Visit Financial Aid Menu Search We’ve Been Expecting You This special place that we call the Hilltop is for you. Feel at home as you look around. This is where you’ll take that life-changing class, have those amazing conversations with your professors, make a late-night dinner run with your friends and cheer on your favorite teams. We’re happy you’re here. Also in Visit In-Person Visit Virtual Campus Experience Virtual Connections Virtual Tour Admission Events Visit SMU – in-person or virtually Whether you want to start a company, shape your own research or stand out in today’s global marketplace, come see how our 234-acre tree-lined think tank near the heart of Dallas will prepare you to own your future. Admission Events At SMU, we host numerous events and guide you every step of the way to becoming an enrolled Mustang! We can help you learn more about the application process, financial aid, selecting a major and much more! Don’t lose out! Just by submitting your SMU application, you’ll be automatically considered for a range of academic awards, including the President’s Scholarship, our prestigious full-ride award. Video Campus Tour with Students Ian and Abby Join SMU Admission Ambassadors Ian Perkins-Smith and Abby Johnson as they tour the SMU campus. Featured tour stops include the Boulevard, Gerald J. Ford Stadium, the Laura Lee Blanton Building, Dallas Hall and Fondren Library. Pony Up! How would you like to tour SMU? There are two ways to tour SMU’s beautiful campus. We offer in-person daily tour options or virtual visits. Either way you decide to see SMU, we know you will love it here! IN-PERSON TOUR VIRTUAL TOUR Maps and Directions SMU is located in the neighborhood of University Park and is bordered by North Central Expressway (U.S. Highway 75) on the east, Hillcrest Avenue on the west, Mockingbird Lane on the south and Daniel Avenue on the north. Where to Stay Find hotels that offer discounted rates to SMU visitors and are listed in order of proximity to campus. Event Dallas Hall, the academic heart of SMU, overlooks the quad, the tree-lined Boulevard and the Dallas skyline. Daily Visits Twice Per DayOn Campus Offered Monday through Friday and include an outdoor campus tour. Event Mustang Days Summer and Fall 2022 Make Your Day a Mustang Day! Mustang Days give you a 360° view of SMU in a virtual setting. Get the inside track on admission, scholarships, financial aid*, and campus life. Apply NowVisit Us Back to top Academics Cox School of Business Dedman College of Humanities and Science Dedman School of Law Lyle School of Engineering Meadows School of the Arts Moody School of Graduate and Advanced Studies Perkins School of Theology Simmons School of Education & Human Development SMU CAPE SMU Libraries The Guildhall Audience Links Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Alumni Faculty & Staff Media Parents Quick Links SMU Ignited: Boldly Shaping Tomorrow COVID-19 Information (Mustang Strong) Bush Center SMU Store Academic Calendar Events Calendar Employment Giving to SMU Virtual Tour Get in Touch Contact Us Maps Directions Compliance Legal Disclosures Report Sexual Harassment Reporting a BIAS Incident HEERF Reporting Emergency Preparedness Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkedIn YouTube © Southern Methodist University, PO Box 750100, Dallas, TX 75275 Apply First-Year Domestic Student* Application First-Year International Student* Application Transfer Forms and Applications Readmission to SMU Graduate Studies FAQs | Undergraduate Temporary Test-Optional Policy Visit Virtual Campus Experience In-Person Visit Virtual Tour Admission Events Maps and Directions Residential Commons Tour Where to Stay Academics Majors and Minors Schools Faculty Virtual Connections Support and Resources Honors and Scholars Tips SMU Abroad SMU-in-Taos FAQs | Academics Campus Life SMU and Dallas Residence Life Dining Health and Safety Spirit and Traditions Diversity At SMU Activities and Organizations Fitness and Recreation Sports Spiritual Life En Espanol FAQs | Living on Campus FAQs | Student Life Financial Aid Cost of Attendance Types of Aid Access SMU Financial Aid Process Payment Plan Options SMU Net Price Calculator Mustang Scholars Robert H. Dedman Scholarship for North Dallas High School En Español Contact Us Deadlines FAQs FAQs | Financial Aid FAQs | Tuition, Fees, and Deadlines Scholarships and Assistance Connect Meet Your Admission Counselor School Contacts Request Information High School Counselor Information Parent Information Social Media and Zoom Backgrounds Frequently Asked Questions Publications Student Ambassadors Coronavirus (COVID-19) Updates Incoming and Current Students Prospective Student Publications Wallpapers International How to Apply Visit SMU Life in Dallas Living at SMU International Student Events Intercultural Engagement Athletics at SMU Spirit and Traditions Immigration Information Obtaining an I-20 Transfer Benefits of an SMU Education Transfer Scholarships Transfer Admission Application Process Transfer Dates and Deadlines Transfer Pathway Guides Transfer Equivalency Tool Meadows Auditions and Portfolios Transfer Forms and Applications International Transfer Students FAQs Congratulations on your admission to SMU! How Credits Transfer Partnership Programs Menu Search Search Submit Popular Searches Apply Academics Campus Life Majors and Minors Visit Financial Aid Did you know? SMU's main campus is located in the nation's fourth largest metropolitan area, Dallas-Fort Worth, with 7.4 million people and more than 20 Fortune 500 headquarters.Learn More Menu Search