European Cultural Studies Logo About Mission History Undergraduate Graduate Contact Us Certificate Admission Application Course of Study ECS Excursion Faber Lecture Senior Thesis Colloquium Asher Hinds Prize Courses People News Events Upcoming Events Events Archive Menu About Mission History Undergraduate Graduate Contact Us Certificate Admission Application Course of Study ECS Excursion Faber Lecture Senior Thesis Colloquium Asher Hinds Prize Courses People News Events Upcoming Events Events Archive Sign up for news and announcements Sign Up Featured Story ECS Executive Committee Member, David Bell, Elected to American Academy of Arts and Science Humanities professor David Bell (History) is among seven University faculty members elected to the American Academy of Arts and Sciences. He joins this year’s cohort of 261 leaders in academia, the arts, business, government and public affairs. Bell is the Sidney and Ruth Lapidus Professor in the Era of North Atlantic Revolutions, professor of history, and director of […] All News There are no upcoming events at this time. The European Cultural Studies Program is supported by the Humanities Council. Sign up for news and announcements Sign Up The Program in European Cultural Studies sustains a vibrant community of faculty and students with wideranging interests in European culture. Together, ECS students and faculty explore the ways in which European societies, past and present, order reality, make sense of life, and communicate meaning across a range of disciplines and in a wide variety of media. ECS offers innovative undergraduate seminars in European history, literature, art, architecture, music, cinema, theater, politics, and philosophy. Our program also supports courses and programming that situate the study of Europe in broader global contexts. Since 2013, ECS Graduate Affiliates have collaborated with faculty in organizing reading groups, lunchtime workshops, conferences, and public lectures under the rubric “Dialogues on European Cultural Studies.” Each year, ECS sponsors events open to the Princeton community, bringing distinguished scholars to campus for public lectures and fostering conversations across disciplines in a variety of settings. To be added to the Listserv to receive announcements regarding events within European Cultural Studies, please send an email to Stephanie Lewandowski. Efthymia Rentzou, Director Professor of French and Italian European Cultural Studies 206 Scheide Caldwell House Princeton, New Jersey 08544 Contact Information (609) 258–0205 ecs@princeton.edu © 2022 The Trustees of Princeton University