Skip to Main Content Brown University Department of Economics Search Menu Site Navigation home Academics Undergraduate Graduate Job Market Candidates People Faculty Emeritus & Courtesy Faculty Adjunct & Visiting Faculty Staff Graduate Students Alumni In Memoriam Seminars Economic Theory Seminars Econometrics Seminars Macroeconomics Seminars Growth Lab Lunch Seminars Applied Microeconomics Seminars Seminar Series on Race and Inequality by Professor Glenn Loury Graduate Student Lunches + Breakfasts Events Past Events About Contact Faculty Positions News Orlando Bravo Center People Research News Seminars About Orlando Bravo Search Department of Economics Economics at Brown Prepares students for graduate study in business and law as well as graduate work in economics or public policy, leading to careers in teaching and research in economics; and it serves as a direct stepping stone towards employment in business, non-profits, finance, and government organizations. Economics at Brown Prepares students for graduate study in business and law as well as graduate work in economics or public policy, leading to careers in teaching and research in economics; and it serves as a direct stepping stone towards employment in business, non-profits, finance, and government organizations. Announcements View All News News From Economics Celebrating Econ Commencement 2022! June 1, 2022 Read Article Open details for Celebrating Econ Commencement 2022! News From Economics Guido Imbens Awarded an Honorary Degree at Brown's 2022 Commencement June 1, 2022 Read Article Open details for Guido Imbens Awarded an Honorary Degree at Brown&#039;s 2022 Commencement News From Economics Prof. Emily Oster Named One of Time's Most Influential People of 2022! May 23, 2022 Read Article Open details for Prof. Emily Oster Named One of Time&#039;s Most Influential People of 2022! News From Economics Kellie Forrester Accepted to the Provost's 2022-2024 Faculty Teaching Fellows Cohort May 19, 2022 Read Article Open details for Kellie Forrester Accepted to the Provost&#039;s 2022-2024 Faculty Teaching Fellows Cohort News From Economics Teddy Mekonnen Awarded Henry Merritt Wriston Fellowship May 18, 2022 Teddy Mekonnen, Orlando Bravo Assistant Professor of Economics, was selected to receive the Henry Merritt Wriston Fellowship. Read Article Open details for Teddy Mekonnen Awarded Henry Merritt Wriston Fellowship News From Economics Brown Faculty Featured in the 2022 Economic Report of the President May 16, 2022 Read Article Open details for Brown Faculty Featured in the 2022 Economic Report of the President Economics is the study of how individuals, businesses and governments choose to allocate resources to best satisfy their objectives. The study of economics serves a number of purposes: it helps students understand the functioning of markets, of firms and of financial organizations; it helps students understand public debate about economic policy, including taxation and government expenditure, trade and globalization, the development and growth of the economy, health and welfare; it prepares students for graduate study in business and law as well as graduate work in economics or public policy, leading to careers in teaching and research in economics; and it serves as a direct stepping stone towards employment in business, non-profits, finance, and government organizations. Academics Graduate The Ph.D. program in Economics at Brown trains students in economic theory and the tools of economic analysis. Through coursework, participation in seminars, and supervised research students are taught to conduct theoretical and empirical research at the highest level. Undergraduate Economics is one of the most popular concentrations at Brown. Economics is much broader in scope than many people realize. You can take classes about race, mass media, global warming, internet marketplaces, game theory, finance, big data, …the list goes on. Economics Job Market Candidates Placement Director Oded Galor Oded_Galor@brown.edu Placement Manager Angelica Spertini Angelica_Spertini@brown.edu Job Market Candidates Faculty The Brown Department of Economics faculty members engage in research ranging from pure theory to applied subjects. Distinguished in their specialties, they are often sought out for their expertise. Economics remains one of the most popular undergraduate majors at the university, and the department’s doctoral program attracts scholars from around the world. Faculty Visit Page Open details for Faculty Adjunct & Visiting Faculty Visit Page Open details for Adjunct &amp; Visiting Faculty Emeritus & Courtesy Faculty Visit Page Open details for Emeritus &amp; Courtesy Faculty Research Orlando Bravo Center for Economic Research Expanding the scope of research in the University’s top-ranked economics department. Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University Brown University For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation home Academics Undergraduate Graduate Job Market Candidates People Faculty Emeritus & Courtesy Faculty Adjunct & Visiting Faculty Staff Graduate Students Alumni In Memoriam Seminars Economic Theory Seminars Econometrics Seminars Macroeconomics Seminars Growth Lab Lunch Seminars Applied Microeconomics Seminars Seminar Series on Race and Inequality by Professor Glenn Loury Graduate Student Lunches + Breakfasts Events Past Events About Contact Faculty Positions News Orlando Bravo Center People Research News Seminars About Orlando Bravo This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Economics at Brown Open details for Economics at Brown Bookmark this Page