Skip Navigation Texas A&M University Search Options Web People Search Search MENU Search About Admissions Academics Athletics Research Student Life Search Future Students Current Students Faculty & Staff Parents Visitors Former Students Make a Gift Search Options Web People Search Search Close Search Menu Home About Admissions Academics Athletics Research Student Life Info For: Future Students Current Students Faculty & Staff Parents Visitors Former Students Make a Gift Home Site Policies Texas A&M Instagram Usage Policy Texas A&M Instagram Usage Policy Howdy! Welcome to one of our official Texas A&M University-affiliated Instagram accounts! As one of the friendliest campuses in the nation, feel free to say "Howdy!" on our posts, interact with our Instagram Stories, and engage with the online community you will find here. Texas A&M University aspires to excellence in all its endeavors. Our code of conduct, traditionally called the Aggie Honor Code, exemplifies excellence through a simple, straightforward statement. The Aggie Honor Code embraces honesty, exhorts responsibility, and expects integrity. "An Aggie does not lie, cheat or steal, or tolerate those who do." The Aggie Honor Code applies to students, faculty, and staff in every facet of their lives, including actions and comments made here on Instagram. The purpose of this Instagram account is to promote the spirit of Aggieland and to visually capture and share information about Texas A&M University among prospective students, current students, former students, staff, faculty, and friends. Please note we welcome your input via direct message, Story replies, and comments on posts. All viewpoints are welcome, and comments will not be removed based on the viewpoints expressed, provided the comments otherwise comply with this policy. However, Texas A&M University may review and remove comments on posts based on the following criteria. Comments must be directly related to the topic of the originated post from the page or may be removed. The following are examples of comments that are not directly related to the posts: Post: Congratulations to the Texas A&M spring graduating class! Comment: College Station Texas has the best Barbeque! Post: The campus will be closed tomorrow because of snow and ice on the roads. Comment: The baseball team is doing great this year! Post: Fall class registration will have new priority deadlines this year. Comment: I can't wait for Spring Break! Comments in any of the below categories may be removed: Encourage illegal activity. Violate the intellectual property rights of any other party, such as copyright or trademark infringement. Compromise the safety or security of Texas A&M University community members, the public or public systems. Contain obscenities. Contain sexually or racially harassing content that is severe, pervasive, and objectively offensive. Present a grave and imminent threat. Incite imminent lawless action. Contain fighting words or true threats. Be fraudulent. Defame. Promote a business or commercial transaction. Promote a candidate campaigning for election. Texas A&M University also may remove "spam" or comments generated or that appear to have been generated by "social bots" (i.e., content posted by automated software, or "bots"). Also, please keep in mind that this is a mobile application, Instagram, and an internet page, Instagram.com. Facebook, Inc. owns and operates Instagram and Instagram.com and has its own policies and standards concerning what may, and may not, be posted and the actions that it may take regarding unauthorized posts. See "Instagram Community Guidelines" at https://help.instagram.com/477434105621119. Instagram may apply its own policies to remove comments, and Texas A&M University does not control or direct Instagram's application of its own community guidelines. Texas A&M University is not responsible for, and neither endorses nor opposes, comments placed on this Instagram account by its visitors. Commenters are personally responsible for their own comments, username, and any information placed on this account by the commenter. For an official source of information about Texas A&M University, please visit our website at www.tamu.edu. About Texas A&M Texas A&M at a Glance Aggie Traditions Colleges & Departments Global Scope Global Partnership Services Education Abroad Admissions Aggiebound Viewbook Office of Admissions Scholarships & Financial Aid Course Catalogs Cost Calculator Academic Resources Majors Rankings & Recognitions University Libraries Services/Resources Parking & Transportation Housing Dining Employment Diversity & Inclusion Emergency Preparedness Contact Us Texas A&M University 979-845-3211 College Station TX 77843 USA TAMU Facebook TAMU Twitter TAMU Instagram TAMU Snapchat TAMU LinkedIn TAMU Pinterest TAMU Youtube TAMU Reddit Texas A&M at Galveston Texas A&M at Qatar Texas A&M University System Site Policies College Station, TX © Texas A&M University Title IX Reporting Sexual Misconduct Policy Mental Health Resources Risk, Fraud & Misconduct Hotline Notice of Nondiscrimination Course Schedules & Syllabus, Faculty CV Institutional Resumes Accountability CARES Act Guidance and Reporting State of Texas Statewide Search State Link Policy Open Records Accreditation Complaints Texas Veterans Portal Texas CREWS Back to top