Skip to main content (opens in a new tab) Rooms & Suites Meetings & Weddings Championship Golf Experience Clemson About the Inn Amenities Dining Special Offers Gallery Health & Safety Contact & Location More link Book now close Close menu Back to the menu Will you be attending Dabo's Ladies Clinic on July 16th and looking for somewhere to stay? Welcome to Clemson University’s Conference Center & Inn Hear the Tigers Roar from our Doorstep Immerse yourself in the Clemson experience! Overlooking beautiful Lake Hartwell and surrounded by our championship golf course, Clemson University’s Conference Center & Inn welcomes you with comfort, convenience and award-winning hospitality. Our full-service hotel and conference center is located on the campus of Clemson University. Spacious rooms and suites are furnished with everything you need to relax and refresh. The best of the area is practically on your doorstep, from campus landmarks to local attractions like the South Carolina Botanical Gardens. Check out our specials! Welcome home, Tiger fans! Please visit our Special Offers page for information on our Future Tiger rate and Parent’s Club Rewards Program! When you stay with us, you are staying with the Clemson Family! Experience Clemson Discover More Athletic Events Learn More opens in a new tab Campus Events Learn More opens in a new tab Community Events Learn More opens in a new tab Inn Reviews Our Guests Know Best... "My husband and I are so grateful for the hospitatilty we received during our wedding weekend. We were surprised to find that our room was upgraded to a beautiful suite, and the staff went above and beyond to make the weekend special and relaxing for us.” – The Herring's "My wife is never happy...until we checked into the Martin Inn. The pen she signed in with was sanitized before and after we checked in. The entire Inn was immaculately clean. A great stay and we are definitely coming back.” – John D. “One of my all-time favorite places. On University Golf Course and lake with views of mountains, campus and water. Best full-service hotel west of Greenville!” – J. O’Tuel "I stay here twice a year on business. The rooms are clean and well-appointed. The on-site restaurant is nice and the food is good. The service is great. Always happy to stay here.” – Alan L. “What a gem!!! Stayed here while on a college tour of Clemson University. When we arrived the first thing I noticed was the grounds were immaculate. Our room was sparkling clean and as we headed out we passed our housekeeper who quickly introduced herself as Brenda and said if we need anything while we were here to let her know and asked us if our room was to our satisfaction. We thanked her for making it shine for us. She said she had worked here for 20 years and she just loved this place. It shows… Keep up the southern hospitality James F. Martin Inn.” – Shannon P. Golf Reviews From One Golfer to Another... “Get the late round and stay for the perfect finish! Right at sunset you realize why the school colors are orange and purple against the lake!" – Justin B. “The best public course hands down. The golf pros and greens staff do an incredible job.” – Frank L. “The course was in immaculate condition. It is challenging but accessible if you keep it in the fairway. The views overlooking Lake Hartwell on the back nine are fabulous. We will definitely be back.” – A. Silverado “The Walker Course at Clemson University is a championship layout that ranks with some of the best in South Carolina. This tree-lined and open parkland course provides a wonderful test for your all-round game, with many attractive, skillfully crafted and challenging holes to enjoy. A must play if you are in the area. At this Stay&Play facility, you can rise from your bed in the morning and head straight for the first tee.” – Suzanne B. Meetings & Events Reviews What our clients have to say... “Very grateful for the compassion of Madren when Covid caused our son's wedding to be cancelled at the last minute. These people are classy in every way, and they have been for years. Thank you Madren employees!” – Lori O. "Best [kept] secret in Clemson for meetings or conventions.” – Jim B. "Our son's wedding to in May was one of our most favorite weekends ever! The wedding was so special and all the details you managed and helped us with were greatly appreciated! You were a delight to work with and we were so happy with our time together at The James Martin Inn and Madren Center in Clemson for the celebration. We would highly recommend your services and facilities to any of our friends and family. THANK YOU, THANK YOU for your time, energy, patience, thoughtfulness and kindness during such a special time in our lives. I hope our paths cross again someday soon. Have a great weekend and Go Tigers.” – Karen S. "[We] hosted an event at the Madren Center, and it turned out great! …The event coordinator at the Madren Center provided phenomenal service. She worked very closely with me throughout the event to ensure everything was perfect. Overall, a fantastic experience for a good price.” – Brianna C. “The 5th Annual Palmetto Panel Conference experienced another successful event thanks to the beautiful venue and attention to detail from the staff at The Conference Center and Inn.” – Diane H. Play like a Champion, Rest like a Tiger View All Accommodations Executive King With peaceful views of Lake Hartwell, our King Executive Rooms serve as the perfect “get-away” for all seasons! Read more Loading Rates from xxxx$ Book now opens in a new tab King Suite Our spacious King Suite is designed for your comfort featuring a separate, well-appointed living area in addition to the King-sized bedroom. Read more Loading Rates from xxxx$ Book now opens in a new tab Double Executive Queen Featuring two queen sized beds, this room-type is the ideal retreat for those traveling with friends and family. Read more Loading Rates from xxxx$ Book now opens in a new tab Contact & Location Privacy Policy Terms & Conditions Accessibility Statement Clemson University Conference Center & Inn 240 Madren Center Drive Clemson, SC 29634 Phone: 864-654-9020 Email: info@stayatclemson.com Site Design by TravelClick, an Amadeus Company