Skip to main content Menu Resources Home Admissions Campus Life Academics Visit Outreach Research About Apply or Give Apply Now Make a Gift Institute for Biological Interfaces of Engineering IBIOE Home Our mission is to develop state-of-the-art systems for solving practical and clinically-relevant problems through strategic interdisciplinary research partnerships, and unique educational initiatives. News Dr. Guigen Zhang named IBIOE Director Dr. Frank Alexis receives Mentor of the Year Award Dr. Vladimir Reukov's Continued Efforts Rewarded with Grant Introducing Dr. Jeremy Mercuri as an Active Member of IBIOE Call Me Doctor® The Call Me Doctor® Fellows Program partners underrepresented IBIOE engineering/science doctoral fellows with education scholars at Clemson University. More about Call Me Doctor®... People Dr. Ravikiran "Joseph" Singapogu is an IBIOE researcher whose interests include; haptics, simulated tisses, and surgical simulation. More IBIOE Researchers ... Make A Gift The IBIOE needs the support of private donors to maintain the center on the cutting edge of medical training and research in the short- and long-term. More Information ... Learning Module Learn about tissue engineering and how composite structures are transforming medicine. The IBIOE Learning Module also includes a fun interactive learning center covering biomedical concepts and its applications. Go to the IBIOE Learning Module ... IBIOE Logo The IBIOE logo is available for the use of our collaborators on their websites and grant proposals to signify their partnership with the Institute. More about using the logo... IBIOE Home Vision Research News People Students Collaborations Call Me Doctor Learning Module Lab Capabilities Safety Training Forms and Logo Make A Gift Contact Us Home Admissions Campus Life Academics Visit Outreach Research About Apply To Clemson Undergraduate Graduate Professional Online Education Employment Opportunities Policy/Terms of Use Text Version Web Accessibility Ethics/Safety Hotline Privacy Policy Site Information Copyright © 2022 Clemson University Clemson, South Carolina 29634 864-656-3311 Contact Clemson Stories for the Clemson Family Clemson University on Facebook Clemson University on Twitter Clemson University on LinkedIn Clemson University on Flickr Clemson University on Instagram