Skip to main content. ADVISORY | COVID-19 Information × kumc.edu School of Health Professions School of Medicine School of Nursing University of Kansas The University of Kansas Health System The University of Kansas Cancer Center Search within this section Search all sites Research Services Institutional Review Board Sponsored Programs Administration About Our Campuses Make a Gift Info for School of Health Professions School of Medicine School of Nursing Current Students Blackboard Webmail myKUMC Prospective Students Prospective Employees Alumni Faculty & Staff Residents & Fellows Patients Donors Researchers Visitors Research Administration Our Campuses Make a Gift Info for Research Administration Services Services Office of Clinical Trial Administration Research Contracts Financial Services Research Systems Research Training & Communications Institutional Review Board Institutional Review Board Getting Started How to Submit to the IRB IRB Reliance Resources Forms, Templates, & Resources Policies & Regulations Wichita Campus Research Sponsored Programs Administration Sponsored Programs Administration Find Funding Proposal Review & Submission Award Acceptance & Set-Up Award Monitoring & Reporting Award Extension & Closeout Forms, Guides & Resources About About People Events and Deadlines University of Kansas Medical Center Research Administration: Supporting the full study life cycle. Human Research Protection Program Clinical Research Study Start up Form myResearch The division of Research Administration provides oversight for research at the University of Kansas Medical Center. The units within Research Administration provide support services including grant management, regulatory oversight, clinical trial budgeting, contract support and training. Related Research Resources Our partners across the KU system, supporting excellence in research. University of Kansas Center for Technology & Commercialization KU Innovation Park Frontiers: University of Kansas Clinical & Translational Science Institute KU Export Compliance Research Administration University of Kansas Medical Center Research Administration Mailstop 1039 3901 Rainbow Boulevard Kansas City, KS 66160 OFFICE LOCATION: Fairway North, 1000 4330 Shawnee Mission Pkwy Fairway, KS 66205 Phone: 913-588-1261 Fax: 866-255-2129 Make a Gift 3901 Rainbow Boulevard, Kansas City, KS 66160 | 913-588-5000 About Calendar News Equal Opportunity Statement Careers Facebook opens in new tab Twitter opens in new tab YouTube opens in new tab Instagram opens in new tab LinkedIn opens in new tab © 2022 The University of Kansas prohibits discrimination on the basis of race, color, ethnicity, religion, sex, national origin, age, ancestry, disability, status as a veteran, sexual orientation, marital status, parental status, gender identity, gender expression, and genetic information in the university's programs and activities. Retaliation is also prohibited by university policy. Inquiries regarding our non-discrimination policies should be directed to the Director for the Equal Opportunity & Academic Compliance Office, Mail Stop 7004, 4330 Shawnee Mission Parkway, Fairway, KS 66205, 913-588-5964, 711 TTY (for the Wichita, Salina, and Kansas City, Kansas medical center campuses). Inquiries regarding the University Sexual Harassment Policy should be directed to the Title IX Coordinator at 913-588-8011. Free Expression Statement | Privacy Statement | Notice of Privacy Practices | Consumer Information We use cookies to analyze our traffic & provide social media features. Visit the KU Medical Center Privacy Statement for more information. By closing this window & browsing this site, you agree to our use of cookies.