Skip to main content Navigation Academics Admissions Research Locations Student Life Alumni & Giving Athletics Apply Now Teacher Education, BS Make a Difference in the Lives of Children and Adolescents in the Classroom Program at a Glance Program Bachelor College(s) College of Community Innovation and Education Department(s) Teacher Education, Schl of 4 Years In State Tuition Out of State Tuition $212.28 per credit hour $748.89 per credit hour Learn more about program tuition and fees. Gain the Knowledge and Skills Needed to Become a Successful Educator The BS in Teacher Education program at UCF prepares you to effectively teach art, physical education or world language subjects at the elementary (K-5), middle (6-8) and high school (9-12) grade levels. Using current technologies in the classroom, you’ll gain first-hand experience in developing pedagogy and content knowledge to meet the needs of students and learn how to teach learners with varying abilities. Throughout your time at UCF, you’ll have many opportunities to engage in additional professional development workshops as well as participate in an annual student showcase. The KnightED Talks workshops, offered throughout the fall and spring semesters, provide you with regular professional learning on topics of relevance to the teaching profession. The KnightED Talks Student Showcase is a forum where you can share your best work with peers. This professional development opportunity enhances both your scholarship and presentational skills. This program leads to subject-area certification issued by the Florida Department of Education. A non-certification option is also available through our lifelong learning track. Education Track (certification) Follow this track if you’re interested in opportunities for employment with formal K-12 schools that require certification. Choose from one of the content area tracks, including art, physical education and world languages. Throughout the program, you will be required to complete two teaching internships in elementary, middle or high schools. Upon graduation, you’ll be eligible for teacher certification. Art Education – Education Track Physical Education – Education Track World Languages Education, Spanish or French specialization – Education Track Lifelong Learning track (non-certification) With this track, explore several content areas such as art education, physical education and world languages. Upon graduation, teach or work in settings outside of traditional schools that do not require teacher certification, such as curriculum publishing companies, art museums, athletic programs or parks and recreation, nonprofits working with English language learners (U.S. and international), and schools that don’t require teacher certification. Art Education – Lifelong Learning Track Physical Education – Lifelong Learning Track World Languages Education, Spanish or French Specialization – Lifelong Learning Track Highlights The teacher education program at UCF is approved by the Florida Department of Education. Various opportunities — service learning, community engagement, professional learning workshops, research, etc. — to extend your learning and provide valuable, hands-on experiences. About 80% of UCF teacher education graduates work in public schools across the state of Florida. The median annual pay for teachers in Florida is around $50,000. Undergraduate Application Deadlines Freshmen Transfers International Fall May 1 Spring November 1 Summer March 1 Fall July 1 Spring November 1 Summer March 1 Fall March 1 Spring September 1 Summer January 1 Ready to get started? Apply Today Start Your Application Today Ready to get started? Take the next step to save your spot at UCF. 1 Check out your application requirements. See what freshmen and transfer students need to apply. 2 Short on time? You can start your application today and come back later to finish. Apply Today Course Overview Teaching Strategies and Classroom Management Explore instructional, organizational and classroom management strategies to create effective learning environments. Fifteen hour in-school experience required. Theory and Practice of Teaching ESOL Students in Schools Focus on methods of teaching English to Speakers of Other Languages (ESOL), ESOL curriculum and materials, cross-cultural understanding, applied linguistics in second language teaching and test and evaluation of ESOL. Studio Experiences in Art Education Materials available for instruction in public schools will be explored in depth in relation to their appropriateness and productive qualities. May be used in the degree program a maximum of 3 times. Teaching Education Skills You’ll Learn Learn strategies for teaching chosen content area at the K-12 level. Differentiate instruction and teach all learners. Infuse technology into instruction. Apply effective classroom management strategies. Career Opportunities Elementary, Middle School or High School Teacher Art Education Teacher Physical Education Teacher Spanish or French Teacher Curriculum Developer College of Community Innovation and Education News Check out more stories Colleges & Campus Knights Do That Podcast: Best Moments of Season 1 and 2 Theater student Alex Cumming reflects on his favorite moments as his time as host comes to an end. Season three of Knights Do That launches… Colleges & Campus Dean Named for the College of Community Innovation and Education Grant Hayes, interim provost and senior vice chancellor for Academic Affairs at East Carolina University, starts at UCF Aug. 1. Science & Technology New Tool from UCF-led Team Shows Homeowners and Renters the True Cost of Disasters The tool can provide disaster readiness reports for 13.3 million addresses in 196 counties along the Gulf of Mexico — including all of Florida, and… Colleges & Campus Former Foster Care Child, Now Mother of 3 Reaches Goal of Becoming Teacher Recent spring graduate Jeanette Marie Reynoso shares her unlikely path to achieving her dream. Degree Search College of Community Innovation and Education programs Bachelors Teacher Education (BS) University of Central Florida Colleges Burnett Honors Arts and Humanities Business Engineering and Computer Science Graduate Studies Health Professions and Sciences Medicine Nursing Optics and Photonics Sciences Undergraduate Studies Hospitality Management University of Central Florida About UCF Contact Us Faculty Online Degrees Policies Privacy Notice Public Records Regulations Report a Concern UCF News 4000 Central Florida Blvd. Orlando, Florida, 32816 | 407.823.2000 © University of Central Florida