Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. Campus Recreation Campus Recreation right arrow down arrow Hours & Schedules right arrow down arrow Campus Recreation Center (CRC) Fitness Center at CARE/Crawley Aquatics Fitness Classes Intramurals Climbing Wall Severe Weather Policy COVID-19 Operations right arrow down arrow Fitness Floor Map Virtual Resources Visit right arrow down arrow Getting Started right arrow down arrow Fitness Floor Orientation Equipment Tutorials Parking Facility Hours Terms & Conditions Lockers & Towels Pro Shop FAQ Things To Do right arrow down arrow Fitness Classes right arrow down arrow Online Fitness Fitness Programs & Special Events 30 Minute Workout Area Personal Training Trainings & Certifications Aquatics Climbing right arrow down arrow Policies & Waiver Intramural Sports right arrow down arrow Intramural Sports Rules right arrow down arrow Intramural Sports Handbook 3-on-3 Basketball 5-on-5 Basketball 7-on-7 Football 7-on-7 Soccer 11-on-11 Soccer 4-on-4 Volleyball 6-on-6 Volleyball Dodgeball Futsal Kickball Pickleball Softball Spikeball Tennis Ultimate Wallyball FAQ Racquetball REC Kids Camp right arrow down arrow Parent/Guardian Guide Team Building Pickleball Membership right arrow down arrow Rates & Discounts Fitness Floor Orientation Terms & Conditions Facilities & Rentals right arrow down arrow Facility Rentals Birthday Parties Process Rates Policies Reservation Jobs right arrow down arrow Staff Directory Student Employment Home » Campus Life » Campus Recreation » Visit » Getting Started Set Navigation title in component Getting Started Fitness Floor Orientation Equipment Tutorials Parking Facility Hours Terms & Conditions Lockers & Towels Pro Shop FAQ Getting Started Use this as a guide to your Campus Rec experience!  Welcome to Campus Rec 101! Don’t go your entire freshman year without visiting the #1 rec center in the country. Use this as a guide to get the most out of your experience at UC. We’re here to help – ask any of our staff if you have questions! Course Locations 2820 Bearcat Way Campus Rec Center (Uptown Main Campus) Located in the heart of main campus. Includes the fitness floor with weight and cardio equipment, indoor track, gym courts, pools, climbing wall, racquetball/squash courts, group fitness, and locker rooms. 3230 Eden Avenue Fitness Center at CARE/Crawley (Medical Campus) Located on the medical campus in the Medical Sciences Building, enter the building, and take the staircase on the left by the elevators when you first walk in. This is a smaller facility than the Campus Rec Center that offers the fitness floor with cardio and weight equipment, locker rooms with dry sauna, and group fitness. If you have an academic class that says "Rec Center" If it has a room 3200-3258, it is in the classrooms above the rec center (you will not use the normal rec center entrance or swipe into the rec). Go to the staircase by Steger and go up. All of the classrooms are there!  If it does not have a room #, it is in the rec center. Meet in the Campus Rec breezeway on your first day and look for a sign with your class name. Always remember to bring your UC ID - you will swipe in for class! What to Expect Your First Day Bring your UC ID and swipe in at the front desk. Go upstairs for cardio and weight equipment, racquetball courts, group fitness classes, track. Go downstairs for climbing wall, gym courts, pools, and locker rooms. It’s a big building, feel free to wander or ask for a tour! Don’t be nervous, everyone starts as a beginner. You’ll build confidence as you come. Attendance Policy You get UNLIMITED swipes to the rec! Come as often and as many times a day as you would like! Both facilities have the most visitors from 5-9 p.m. Try getting an early workout in the morning, at lunch, or by visiting on the weekends to avoid crowds. If you’re looking for an energetic vibe, visit us in the evening. Students do not have guest swipes. Guests are $12/day. NEVER give someone else your ID to enter the rec. It will get confiscated.  Expectations Follow Campus Rec Policies Re-rack your weights Clean your sweat off the machines Don’t text and sit on a machine Return equipment rental items before closing Remove your lock and items from day-use lockers before closing Due Dates Important Dates: Click on the links below to find the program registration dates! Premium Classes    FREE Outdoor Bootcamp   Intramurals   Swim Lessons/Classes  Climbing Classes  Suggested Course Materials Workout Attire (whatever makes you comfortable and follows policy) Water bottle A lock or locker rental. Free day-use lockers are available near the gym courts or on all levels with a lock (bring your own or buy one at Member Services). All items must be removed before closing. Rent a locker to keep your workout gear at the rec for an extended period of time, rent at Member Services. Never leave your items unlocked or unattended. Resources Let us help you feel comfortable here and reach your goals! FREE Fitness Floor Orientation: we will give you a personal tour of the fitness floor and show you how to use and adjust the equipment. Personal Training: personal trainers help you set goals and achieve them. They can help beginners get started with a plan or help advance athletes to the next level. Extra Credit Try something new! Sweat it out in a FREE group fitness class Try the climbing wall, it's FREE! Swipe in at the desk and the staff will show you what to do! Swim laps, walk against the current channel in the leisure pool, or relax in the whirlpool Take advantage of our FREE equipment rental and play basketball or volleyball on the gym courts or use a weight belt on the fitness floor Grading Scale Everyone gets an A! Our goal is to see a campus community passionate about pursuing an active, healthy lifestyle. We just want you to come in and do what works for you! Remember, no one is watching you, everyone is watching themselves! You do you. Dance like no one is watching. Lift like no one is looking. Run like you're chasing your dreams! Check out the full playlist of Campus Rec how-to videos. Campus Recreation Center | 2820 Bearcat Way | Cincinnati OH 45221 | 513-556-0604 Fitness Center at Care Crawley | 3230 Eden Avenue | Cincinnati OH 45267 | 513-558-0604 campusrec@uc.edu UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati Campus Recreation Center | 2820 Bearcat Way | Cincinnati OH 45221 | 513-556-0604 Fitness Center at Care Crawley | 3230 Eden Avenue | Cincinnati OH 45267 | 513-558-0604 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top