Skip to main content Menu Resources Home Admissions Campus Life Academics Visit Outreach Research About Apply or Give Apply Now Make a Gift INCLUSION AND EQUITY Strategic Planning for Inclusive Excellence Strategic Planning for Inclusive Excellence Clemson University is undergoing a process whereby every college, division, university commission, as well as Faculty and Staff Senates are developing, implementing, and assessing strategic plans focused on diversity, equity and inclusion. This process is in alignment with ClemsonFORWARD, and will help meet the diversity, equity, and inclusion-related goals of the university’s strategic plan. The timeline for the Inclusive Excellence Plans coincide with ClemsonFORWARD, for which the implementation period ends in 2026. What is Inclusive Excellence? Inclusive excellence is: A focus on student intellectual and social development. A purposeful development of and utilization of organizational resources to enhance student learning Attention to the cultural differences learners bring to the educational experience and that enhance the enterprise. A welcoming community that engages all of its diversity in the service of student and organizational learning. The Inclusive Excellence model was developed by work commissioned by the Association of American Colleges and Universities and funded by the Ford Foundation. The work was designed to help campuses: (a) integrate their diversity and quality efforts, (b) situate this work at the core of institutional functioning, and (c) realize the educational benefits available to students and to the institution when this integration is done well and is sustained over time. (Williams, Berger and McClendon, 2005, p. iii) Williams, D. A., Berger, J. B., & McClendon, S. A. (2005). Toward a model of inclusive excellence and change in postsecondary institutions. Washington, DC: Association of American Colleges and Universities. STRATEGIC PLANNING PROCESS QUESTIONS? Contact Altheia L. Richardson, Ph.D. Assistant Vice President for Strategic Diversity Leadership lalthei@clemson.edu Strategic Planning for Inclusive Excellence Strategic Planning Framework Units Involved in Strategic Planning for Inclusive Excellence Diversity and Inclusion Homepage Home Admissions Campus Life Academics Visit Outreach Research About Apply To Clemson Undergraduate Graduate Professional Online Education Employment Opportunities Policy/Terms of Use Text Version Web Accessibility Ethics/Safety Hotline Privacy Policy Site Information Copyright © 2022 Clemson University Clemson, South Carolina 29634 864-656-3311 Contact Clemson Stories for the Clemson Family Clemson University on Facebook Clemson University on Twitter Clemson University on LinkedIn Clemson University on Flickr Clemson University on Instagram