Texas Tech University Directory Raiderlink A-Z Index Department of Chemistry & Biochemistry Menu Search TTU Department of Chemistry and Biochemistry Departmental News Prof. Mechref is invited to review a Wellcome Early Career Award. Wellcome is a politically and financially independent global charitable foundation based in the UK. Dong Zhang, PhD candidate in the Gamez lab, was invited to give his upcoming poster presentation also as a Lightning Talk in the Ambient Sampling & Ionization Interest Group workshop at the ASMS Conference on Mass Spectrometry and Allied Topics, June 5 – 9, Minneapolis, 2022 An article published by the Gamez lab was selected as a Top Finalist for the Paper of The Year Award from the Elsevier journal: Spectrochimica Acta B. You can see the publication in the publications section. Angewandte Chemie did an 'Introducing' Profile on Prof. Kristin Hutchins. The profiles highlight authors who have published their first paper as corresponding author in Angewandte Chemie. Link here: https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/anie.202205676 Dr. Guigen Li had the Supplementary Cover Art for his manuscript: 'From Center-to-Multilayer Chirality: Asymmetric Synthesis of Multilayer Targets with Electron-Rich Bridges' (10.1021/acs.joc.2c00234) is now published in The Journal of Organic Chemistry. You can see this art here: https://pubs.acs.org/toc/joceah/87/9 Prof. Hutchins delivered a plenary lecture at the Virtual Symposium on Solid-State Organic Chemistry on May 24, 2022 entitled, 'Using Mixed Environments and Dynamic Behaviors to Tune Solid-State Materials. Janos Sarka had the talk 'Quantum Dynamical Study of the Hydrogen Exchange Reaction in the [FeH(H2)(PH3)4]+ Coordination Complex' at the XXth International Workshop on Quantum Atomic and Molecular Tunneling Systems (QAMTS 2022) in Canmore, Canada. Prof. Carol Korzeniewski gave the invited lecture “Confocal Raman Microscopy in the Study of Electrode-Electrolyte Interfaces” at Pittcon 2022 in the Symposium Shedding Light on Electrochemical Interfaces. Departmental News Prof. Mechref is invited to review a Wellcome Early Career Award. Wellcome is a politically and financially independent global charitable foundation based in the UK. Dong Zhang, PhD candidate in the Gamez lab, was invited to give his upcoming poster presentation also as a Lightning Talk in the Ambient Sampling & Ionization Interest Group workshop at the ASMS Conference on Mass Spectrometry and Allied Topics, June 5 – 9, Minneapolis, 2022 An article published by the Gamez lab was selected as a Top Finalist for the Paper of The Year Award from the Elsevier journal: Spectrochimica Acta B. You can see the publication in the publications section. Angewandte Chemie did an 'Introducing' Profile on Prof. Kristin Hutchins. The profiles highlight authors who have published their first paper as corresponding author in Angewandte Chemie. Link here: https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/anie.202205676 Dr. Guigen Li had the Supplementary Cover Art for his manuscript: 'From Center-to-Multilayer Chirality: Asymmetric Synthesis of Multilayer Targets with Electron-Rich Bridges' (10.1021/acs.joc.2c00234) is now published in The Journal of Organic Chemistry. You can see this art here: https://pubs.acs.org/toc/joceah/87/9 Prof. Hutchins delivered a plenary lecture at the Virtual Symposium on Solid-State Organic Chemistry on May 24, 2022 entitled, 'Using Mixed Environments and Dynamic Behaviors to Tune Solid-State Materials. Janos Sarka had the talk 'Quantum Dynamical Study of the Hydrogen Exchange Reaction in the [FeH(H2)(PH3)4]+ Coordination Complex' at the XXth International Workshop on Quantum Atomic and Molecular Tunneling Systems (QAMTS 2022) in Canmore, Canada. Prof. Carol Korzeniewski gave the invited lecture “Confocal Raman Microscopy in the Study of Electrode-Electrolyte Interfaces” at Pittcon 2022 in the Symposium Shedding Light on Electrochemical Interfaces. Departmental News Prof. Mechref is invited to review a Wellcome Early Career Award. Wellcome is a politically and financially independent global charitable foundation based in the UK. Dong Zhang, PhD candidate in the Gamez lab, was invited to give his upcoming poster presentation also as a Lightning Talk in the Ambient Sampling & Ionization Interest Group workshop at the ASMS Conference on Mass Spectrometry and Allied Topics, June 5 – 9, Minneapolis, 2022 An article published by the Gamez lab was selected as a Top Finalist for the Paper of The Year Award from the Elsevier journal: Spectrochimica Acta B. You can see the publication in the publications section. Angewandte Chemie did an 'Introducing' Profile on Prof. Kristin Hutchins. The profiles highlight authors who have published their first paper as corresponding author in Angewandte Chemie. Link here: https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/anie.202205676 Dr. Guigen Li had the Supplementary Cover Art for his manuscript: 'From Center-to-Multilayer Chirality: Asymmetric Synthesis of Multilayer Targets with Electron-Rich Bridges' (10.1021/acs.joc.2c00234) is now published in The Journal of Organic Chemistry. You can see this art here: https://pubs.acs.org/toc/joceah/87/9 Prof. Hutchins delivered a plenary lecture at the Virtual Symposium on Solid-State Organic Chemistry on May 24, 2022 entitled, 'Using Mixed Environments and Dynamic Behaviors to Tune Solid-State Materials. Janos Sarka had the talk 'Quantum Dynamical Study of the Hydrogen Exchange Reaction in the [FeH(H2)(PH3)4]+ Coordination Complex' at the XXth International Workshop on Quantum Atomic and Molecular Tunneling Systems (QAMTS 2022) in Canmore, Canada. Prof. Carol Korzeniewski gave the invited lecture “Confocal Raman Microscopy in the Study of Electrode-Electrolyte Interfaces” at Pittcon 2022 in the Symposium Shedding Light on Electrochemical Interfaces. Departmental News Prof. Mechref is invited to review a Wellcome Early Career Award. Wellcome is a politically and financially independent global charitable foundation based in the UK. Dong Zhang, PhD candidate in the Gamez lab, was invited to give his upcoming poster presentation also as a Lightning Talk in the Ambient Sampling & Ionization Interest Group workshop at the ASMS Conference on Mass Spectrometry and Allied Topics, June 5 – 9, Minneapolis, 2022 An article published by the Gamez lab was selected as a Top Finalist for the Paper of The Year Award from the Elsevier journal: Spectrochimica Acta B. You can see the publication in the publications section. Angewandte Chemie did an 'Introducing' Profile on Prof. Kristin Hutchins. The profiles highlight authors who have published their first paper as corresponding author in Angewandte Chemie. Link here: https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/anie.202205676 Dr. Guigen Li had the Supplementary Cover Art for his manuscript: 'From Center-to-Multilayer Chirality: Asymmetric Synthesis of Multilayer Targets with Electron-Rich Bridges' (10.1021/acs.joc.2c00234) is now published in The Journal of Organic Chemistry. You can see this art here: https://pubs.acs.org/toc/joceah/87/9 Prof. Hutchins delivered a plenary lecture at the Virtual Symposium on Solid-State Organic Chemistry on May 24, 2022 entitled, 'Using Mixed Environments and Dynamic Behaviors to Tune Solid-State Materials. Janos Sarka had the talk 'Quantum Dynamical Study of the Hydrogen Exchange Reaction in the [FeH(H2)(PH3)4]+ Coordination Complex' at the XXth International Workshop on Quantum Atomic and Molecular Tunneling Systems (QAMTS 2022) in Canmore, Canada. Prof. Carol Korzeniewski gave the invited lecture “Confocal Raman Microscopy in the Study of Electrode-Electrolyte Interfaces” at Pittcon 2022 in the Symposium Shedding Light on Electrochemical Interfaces. Awards and Accolades Both TTU and FAPESP have given funding to Dr. Poirier's proposed collaboration with Dr. Brett Carlson, entitled “Riding Quantum Trajectories beyond Born-Oppenheimer: Building better methods for reaction dynamics”. The total grant amount is $20,000. Dr. Poirier was chosen as the Spring 2022 Arts and Science Students' Choice Top Faculty. Dr. Ruibin Liang has won a Welch Grant for $300,000 for 3 years! The achievement is particularly impressive, given that the number of applications was considerably higher, and the number of grants awarded fewer, than in recent years. The Gorden group has officially been notified of funding to be awarded $650,000 from the National Science Foundation for their project on "NSF2154848 - LnIII Complexes Displaying ErIII-centered Upconversion Emission in Solution and the Solid State with YbIII, NdIII or a Porphyrin-based ligand as Activators."+ More This is in collaboration with groups at University of Nevada and Cal Poly - Humboldt. Guigen Li's paper, “Asymmetric [4 + 2] cycloaddition synthesis of 4H-chromene derivatives facilitated by group-assisted-purification (GAP) chemistry”, was selected by the Royal Society of Chemistry as a 2021 HOT RSC Advances article. You can find his publication in the link below as well as the others selected for this honor: RSC Advances HOT Article Collection Additional Departmental News Student Highlights Mona Goli (graduate student in Prof. Mechref's group) received the 2022 Ming Sun Family Graduate Research Award , was selected to receive a Texas Tech University Graduate School Doctoral Dissertation Completion Fellowship for the 2022-2023 academic year. Aiying Yu (graduate student in Prof. Mechref's group) received the 2022 Ginny Shen Lin's Scholarship. Aiying Yu (graduate student in Prof. Mechref's group) received the 2022 CGSO Scholarships. Dr. Andrew Cho (a former graduate student of Prof. Mechref's group) co-shared the 2022 Song Prize for the Best Ph.D. Dissertation in the Department of Chemistry and Biochemistry Adineh Rezaei also was awarded with Chemistry Graduate Student Organization (CGSO) Scholarship Award (Inorganic Division), Ming Sun Family Graduate Research Award, and Outstanding Teaching Assistant Award in Upper-Division Chemistry Texas Tech's own, Sean Meyer (‘17) received his PhD in materials chemistry couple weeks ago from Univ Illinois. Our Vision The Department of Chemistry and Biochemistry is committed to providing high quality education in the chemical and biochemical sciences for undergraduate and graduate students, producing research contributions that are recognized nationally and internationally, and making service contributions at all levels. Bill Hase Memorial Scholarship The Bill Hase Memorial Scholarship continues to receive a steady flow of donations, with 21 new non-anonymous donors having contributed since November, 2021. These come from around the country and around the world—and of course, from TTU. Click here for more details. Upcoming Events Wednesday, June 8th, 2022 • Ph.D. DEFENSE Xiaodan Ding TTUCHEMBIO @TTUChem (Undergraduate) @TTUChemGrad (Graduate) Contact TTU Contact Contact TTUContact Contact TTU News News for NewsNews for News Events EventsEvents Department of Chemistry & Biochemistry Address 1204 Boston Avenue, Lubbock, TX 79409-1061 Phone 806.742.3067 Texas Tech University 2500 Broadway Lubbock, Texas 79409 806.742.2011 Follow Texas Tech University Like Texas Tech University on FacebookLike Texas Tech University on Facebook Follow Texas Tech University on twitterFollow Texas Tech University on twitter Check in with Texas Tech University on FourSquareCheck in with Texas Tech University on FourSquare Subscribe to Texas Tech University on YouTubeSubscribe to Texas Tech University on YouTube Follow Texas Tech University on FlickrFollow Texas Tech University on Flickr Follow Texas Tech University on InstagramFollow Texas Tech University on Instagram Connect with Texas Tech University on LinkedInConnect with Texas Tech University on LinkedIn Contact Texas Tech UniversityContact Texas Tech University Contact Us Campus Map Jobs @ TTU Emergency Communication Center General Policy Information Public Access to Course Info Energy Management Mental Health Resources Title IX Fraud and Misconduct Hotline Online Institutional Resumes TTU System TTU Health Sciences Center TTUHSC El Paso Angelo State University Midwestern State University Statewide Search State of Texas Texas Homeland Security Texas Veterans Portal Texas CREWS SAO Fraud Reporting Open Records Requests © 2022 Texas Tech University May 31, 2022 9:49 AM Department of Chemistry & Biochemistry People Department of Chemistry & Biochemistry People Back Directories Department of Chemistry & Biochemistry People Back Full Department Administrators Faculty and Instructors Staff Research Associates Graduate Students Advising Department of Chemistry & Biochemistry People Back Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Offices Department of Chemistry & Biochemistry People Back Academic Office Administrative Office Business Office Research Department of Chemistry & Biochemistry Research Back Faculty Research Facilities/Shops Safety VENUS [By Prof. Bill Hase] Students Department of Chemistry & Biochemistry Students Back Faculty and Instructors Teaching Department of Chemistry & Biochemistry Students Faculty and Instructors Teaching Back Analytical Biochemistry General Inorganic Organic Physical Undergraduate Department of Chemistry & Biochemistry Students Undergraduate Back Current Advising Chemistry Minor Chemistry Placement Exam Tutor List Graduate Department of Chemistry & Biochemistry Students Graduate Back Current Forms Prospective Advising Directory FAQ Graduate Research Awards Offices Department of Chemistry & Biochemistry Students Back Academic Office Administrative Office Business Office Scholarships/Opportunities Department of Chemistry & Biochemistry Students Scholarships/Opportunities Back Departmental Scholarships External Opportunities Welch Summer Scholar Program Computer Programs Department of Chemistry & Biochemistry Students Back ChemDraw MATLAB News & Events Department of Chemistry & Biochemistry News & Events Back Departmental News Department of Chemistry & Biochemistry News & Events Back Recent News Test Tube Newsletters Early History of the Dept Awards & Banquets Endowed Lectureships Department of Chemistry & Biochemistry News & Events Endowed Lectureships Back Purnendu K. Dasgupta Lectures G. Wilse Robinson Lectures Henry J. Shine Lectures Seminars Department of Chemistry & Biochemistry News & Events Seminars Back Weekly Schedule Departmental Divisional Student Defenses Poster Contest Department of Chemistry & Biochemistry News & Events Poster Contest Back Fall 2020 Poster Contest Resources Department of Chemistry & Biochemistry Resources Back Facilities Department of Chemistry & Biochemistry Resources Back Mass Spectrometry More Instrumentation NMR Spectroscopy University Facilities X-ray Diffraction Service Shops Department of Chemistry & Biochemistry Resources Back Electronics Shop Glass Shop Machine Shop Stockroom Safety Department of Chemistry & Biochemistry Resources Back Emergency Safety Officer Emergency Action Plan Employment Opportunities Links for Faculty & Staff Scholarships Tutor List Alumni Department of Chemistry & Biochemistry Alumni Back Alumni Highlights Contact Update Giving to the Department Contact Us Department of Chemistry & Biochemistry Contact Us Back Advising Department of Chemistry & Biochemistry Contact Us Back Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Offices Department of Chemistry & Biochemistry Contact Us Back Academic Office Administrative Office Business Office Mailing/Shipping Additional Resources TTU HomeDirectory Raiderlink A-Z Index