Accessibility Options: Skip to Content Skip to Search Skip to footer Office of Disability Services Request Assistance 305-284-2374 Display: Default High Contrast University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Apply About UM Schools School of Architecture College of Arts & Sciences Miami Herbert Business School School of Communication School of Education & Human Development College of Engineering School of Law Rosenstiel School of Marine & Atmospheric Science Miller School of Medicine Frost School of Music School of Nursing & Health Studies The Graduate School Division of Continuing & International Education Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Search Tools People Search Class Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Search UM (Mobile) Apply Apply About UM Schools Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Academics Admissions Student Life Research UHealth Athletics Tools Popular Links Coronavirus Information News@TheU People Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement Home Search Site COE Home Main College College News Biomedical Engineering Chemical, Environmental and Materials Engineering Civil and Architectural Engineering Electrical and Computing Engineering Industrial Engineering Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering About Mission & Vision Leadership Fast Facts Strategic Initiatives Publications Calendar Directory Academics Programs Undergraduate Programs Master's Programs PhD Programs More Programs Admissions Departments Biomedical Engineering Chemical, Environmental and Materials Engineering Civil and Architectural Engineering Electrical and Computer Engineering Industrial and Systems Engineering Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering Apply Research Strategic Thrusts Shared Facilities Centers and Institutes CoE Laboratories Highlights Administrative Give Info for... Alumni Faculty and Staff Current Students Industry and Outreach More Resources About Academics Apply Research Give Info for... Search About Mission & Vision Leadership Fast Facts Strategic Initiatives Publications Calendar Directory Academics Programs Undergraduate Programs Master's Programs PhD Programs More Programs Admissions Departments Biomedical Engineering Chemical, Environmental and Materials Engineering Civil and Architectural Engineering Electrical and Computer Engineering Industrial and Systems Engineering Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering Apply Research Strategic Thrusts Shared Facilities Centers and Institutes CoE Laboratories Highlights Administrative Give Info for... Alumni Faculty and Staff Current Students Industry and Outreach More Resources COE Home Main College College News Biomedical Engineering Chemical, Environmental and Materials Engineering Civil and Architectural Engineering Electrical and Computing Engineering Industrial Engineering Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering Programs Resources Faculty Openings Facility Access MakerSpace Industry Careers ViAComp Faculty Resources and Training Students $sLabel Home Resources AAA Resources GET STARTED 1 Request Info 2 Visit 3 Apply GET STARTED 1 Request Info 2 Visit 3 Apply The Standing Committee on Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion The Committee is entrusted with researching, recommending, and promoting educational and programmatic efforts that are consistent with the University’s unwavering dedication to diversity and inclusion. Among other activities of the committee are analyzing strategies to enhance our educational efforts around these topics. In 2020 President Frenk reaffirmed the University’s commitment to racial and ethnic equality and as part of a 15-point plan to improve racial equality, inclusion, and justice appointed Dr. Renée Dickens Callan and Dr. Marvin Dawkins to lead the reinvigorated committee. Click here to learn more. Active Classrooms Active classrooms reverse the lecture and homework elements of the class. Faculty use a variety of tools to disseminate information outside of the classroom, including PowerPoint presentations, videos and other resources. Students utilize those tools to learn information they would typically receive in class, with the flexibility to work at their own pace and location. Active Classroom Instructions Careers The College of Engineering (CoE) is committed to provide students with internship opportunities as well as career options upon graduation. Here are a few resources for both students and recruiters to help great future engineers meet wonderful firms. The University of Miami is known internationally as a highly selective, diverse source of bright and talented students, taught by a distinguished faculty involved in today’s cutting edge research. The CoE is a preferred recruiting partner for many of the world’s leading firms, including GE, IBM, Allstate, FPL, Lockheed Martin, NASA, Cordis, UPS, and many others. ViAComp ViAComp – Virtual Academic Computing – is a cloud computing platform for the CoE students. ViAComp provides free remote access to educational software programs anytime and anywhere. ViAComp also works on mobile platforms like an iPhone. ViaComp was developed for the benefit of students, who needed access to software in their research and academic projects. ViAComp contains over 50 software modules including Solid Works, Labview, ProEngineer, and Minitab Maker Space The J&J Collaboratory and its supporting Prototyping Facility offer world-class prototyping facilities. Research Opportunities for Students: NSF-REUs (National Science Foundations, Research Experiences for Undergraduates). There are 2 types of NSF-REUs which are typically paid positions. One type is associated with single research grants that are awarded to the University through an individual Professor’s efforts. The other type are “site” REUs which are awards made to a particular University to host a larger group of students for work on several different research projects. The “site” REUs typically take place during the summer and usually require that the undergraduate student travel to the University hosting the site. The “site” REUs typically provide stipends that help offset the cost of housing. Announcements for “site” NSF-REUs are typically released between the December and February preceding the corresponding summer. Additional details about site REUs is available in the Powerpoint presentation and fact sheet. NSF-GRFP (NSF – Graduate Research Fellowship Program). These awards fund graduate school, including MS and PhD degrees. These awards are highly prestigious and are awarded to the student and can “follow” the student depending upon where they go to graduate school. To be competitive, students are highly recommended to work with a faculty member in developing their application. Deadlines for applications is typically in November. More details are available at: the NSF web site. The announcement for the competition is available at NSF Graduate Research Fellowship Program site Students Being a ‘Cane Engineer goes well beyond the classroom. Read more Faculty Resources and Training Training and information for new and existing faculty. Read more ViAComp Learn about the cloud computing platform for the students of the College of Engineering. Read more Careers Find the career path right for you with the help of the Toppel Career Center. Read more Industry Explore objectives, degrees, and industry statistics. Read more MakerSpace Learn about our professionally staffed, state-of-the-art Prototyping Facility. Read more University of Miami Coral Gables, FL 33124 305-284-2211 College of Engineering 1251 Memorial Drive, McArthur Engineering Building Coral Gables, FL 33146 (305) 284-2404 (305) 284-2404 Resources About UM myUM CaneLink Academic Calendar Blackboard UM Network Alumni Association Medical Center Hurricane Sports Employment Opportunities Support COE Give to COE Ways to Give Visit Campus Map Parking & Transportation Connect social-facebook social-twitter social-youtube social-instagram Copyright: 2022 University of Miami. All Rights Reserved. Emergency Information Privacy Statement & Legal Notices