Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu C.H. Nash Museum Chucalissa About Schedule & Fees Events Directions Museum Store Sites to See Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact Chucalissa Indian Mounds View drone footage of Chucalissa National Historic Landmark Native American Replica House Tour a fully furnished replica house to see how a Native American family would have lived 500 to 1,000 years ago. Native American Gallery Visit the Chucalissa’s Native American gallery to learn about prehistoric lifeways. Nature Trail Hike the nature trail through Chucalissa’s arboretum to learn how Native Americans used local plants. PreviousNext Take Action Educational Resources Support the Museum Contact Us Follow Us Online FacebookYoutube Home Chucalissa Hours of Operation Normal hours of operation are Tuesday - Saturday, 9:00 a.m. - 4:30 p.m.. Closed Sunday and Monday. Last admission is at 4:00. Masks are strongly encouraged while inside the museum. Free masks are available to those who need them. About Chucalissa We take you back in time. Before Europeans set foot upon Mississippi Valley soil, American Indians flourished along the shores of the Mighty Mississippi River. The C.H. Nash Museum at the Prehistoric Chucalissa Archaeological Site lets families, students, tourists and history buffs celebrate and discover the vibrant and sophisticated culture of these ancient people. A whole new world of learning. Operated by the University of Memphis (including the museum, grounds, gift shop and picnic area), you'll find that there is so much to explore — the prehistoric American Indian mound complex, a hands-on archaeology laboratory, exhibits on the prehistoric and historic occupations of the region, a nature trail, a fully certified arboretum, and a fascinating array of plant species used for medicinal, dye and other ancient purposes. The C.H. Nash Museum was founded in 1956 following the 1930s rediscovery of a Mississippian (AD 1000 - 1500) mound complex by workers preparing for the Jim Crow era Shelby County Negro Park (now the T.O. Fuller State Park). The earthen mounds (still standing today) are believed to have been constructed and occupied between 1000-1500 AD by the people of the Mississippian culture who used platform mounds for ceremonies and residences of high-ranking officials within their culture. The site is now used as a laboratory for training archaeologists and as a place for the public to come and learn more about the remarkable science of archaeology. Plan a trip today! You've come to the right place to plan an outing to discover accurate information about how the Native Americans first settled and lived in the Mid-South. We hope you will click through our website to plan your visit to this special hidden treasure, located just outside the city of Memphis. The mission of the C.H. Nash Museum at Chucalissa, a division of the University of Memphis, is to protect and interpret the Chucalissa archaeological site’s cultural and natural environments, and to provide the University Community and the Public with exceptional educational, participatory, and research opportunities on the landscape’s past and present Native American and traditional cultures. <!-- intentionally non-empty iframe; for xsl --> Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 2/19/22 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.