Skip to main content Temple University Explore Temple’s Schools and Colleges Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Support Temple Temple University Search Site Search Full Menu Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees President History & Traditions Temple Health News & Media Offices Public Information Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Development Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Libraries Occupational Therapy MOT You are here Home Academics Degrees and Programs Occupational Therapy MOT Apply Request More Info Occupational Therapy MOT Accreditation, Licensure & Program Outcomes Admissions Clinical Education Departmental Research Required Courses Scholarships & Financial Aid Master of Occupational Therapy This program is no longer accepting applicants. If you hold a bachelor's degree and are seeking an advanced degree in occupational therapy, you may apply to our entry-level Occupational Therapy Doctorate (OTD) program. If you are a licensed occupational therapist with a master’s degree in occupational therapy, you may apply to our Transitional Clinical Doctorate in Occupational Therapy (OTD) program. The highly ranked Master of Occupational Therapy (MOT) in Temple’s College of Public Health trains students to help individuals maximize their health and quality of life by engaging in meaningful activity. Students learn how to evaluate clients’ functional needs, and develop and implement solutions for clients to gain independence. This entry-level professional program prepares graduates to take the national board certification (NBCOT) examination, which allows you to become a registered occupational therapist. Occupational therapy empowers individuals across the lifespan to overcome dysfunction, make choices regarding occupational engagement, and optimize function and quality of life. Our faculty encourage students to cultivate five professional roles on their paths to becoming accomplished occupational therapists: engager, innovator, learner, perceiver and thinker. You will develop clinical skills through a combination of direct observation and experiential learning: Students engage in supervised fieldwork assignments beginning in their first year. You will be taught to understand social needs, policies and trends in order to prepare for a fulfilling professional life. The program boasts a 100% employment rate for graduating students. Graduates are prepared to become entry-level occupational therapists working with children, adults and older adults in educational, community and medical service areas. Our graduates serve at community service agencies, developmental disability therapy centers, hospitals, mental health centers, rehabilitation centers and schools, among other environments. What sets apart our MOT program? Advanced clinical education spaces: The occupational therapy program is housed in a new building on Temple’s Main Campus that features state-of-the-art instructional technology, smart classrooms and an Activities of Daily Living suite—a simulated home environment in which students practice implementing adaptive techniques to help clients navigate everyday tasks. Explore the space. A supportive academic environment: The master’s program fosters a tight-knit community of students who support each other inside and outside the classroom through meaningful academic and service projects. Internationally renowned faculty: Our faculty are recognized experts in the field, offering knowledge and research opportunities in areas including adult rehabilitation, child and youth development, community-based practices, and promoting inclusive institutional and legislative policies. Program Format This 80-credit, full-time degree program begins in the summer and takes two and a half years to complete; it includes six months of supervised full-time fieldwork. Students take foundational, intervention and theoretical courses on topics such as group dynamics in OT and health/wellness in the community. The program also includes a focused research course track that trains students in research design and implementation. The program includes 44 credit hours of clinical practice—an essential element of occupational therapy education. This includes fieldwork and practice courses on topics such as children/youth and assistive technology. After a basic design and research methods course in their first semester, graduate students form small research groups that are assigned to work in tandem with a faculty member on a specific project for the remainder of the year. Students gain valuable skills across the span of the research process, from developing and assessing studies to collecting and analyzing data. The selection process for pairing students with faculty research mentors is collaborative: Students rank faculty projects in order of their interests, and the department matches the students based on those preferences. See a full list of program courses. Our Advisors The College of Public Health offers personalized advising services to students in each department. Master of Occupational Therapy students are assigned an OT faculty academic advisor upon entry into the program. The OT faculty academic advisor provides guidance on academic and professional development. Related Graduate Degrees Doctor of Occupational Therapy: for currently licensed occupational therapists with a master’s degree in OT Post-Professional Certificate in Occupational Therapy: for currently licensed occupational therapists with an undergraduate degree in OT but no master’s degree Student Organizations You can engage with peers and find leadership opportunities in student-led clubs and organizations in the College of Public Health. Learn more about student clubs and organizations. Tuition & Fees In keeping with Temple’s commitment to access and affordability, this Master of Occupational Therapy offers a competitive level of tuition with multiple opportunities for financial support. Tuition rates are set annually by the university and are affected by multiple factors, including program degree level (undergraduate or graduate), course load (full- or part-time), in-state or out-of-state residency, and more. These tuition costs apply to the 2021–2022 academic year. Pennsylvania resident: $1,020.00 per credit Out-of-state: $1,398.00 per credit Learn more about our tuition and fees. View the total cost of attendance for the Occupational Therapy MOT program. (PDF) HP-OTHR-MOT Additional Program Information Visit College Site View Program Details Go back to AcademicsMore in Occupational Therapy MOT Accreditation, Licensure & Program Outcomes Admissions Clinical Education Departmental Research Required Courses Scholarships & Financial Aid Apply Request More Info Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Calendar Policies Social Media TUportal TUmail Accessibility Careers at Temple Safety & Emergency Information Ethics & Compliance Privacy Statement Professional Licensure Disclosures Follow Temple University Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community. Apply Request More Info