Skip to main content UCF News | Stories of Impact + Innovation | Orlando, FL Sections × UCF News | Stories of Impact + Innovation | Orlando, FL Arts Business Colleges Community Health Opinions Science & Tech Sports Student Life Tuesday, May 31, 2022 88ºF Mostly cloudy Colleges & Campus UCF Names Director of Emergency Management Joe Thalheimer ’08 will take on the role permanently after serving as the interim director for the last year. By Amanda Sellers ’13 ’19MA | June 22, 2020 Joe Thalheimer ’08 has been a part of UCF’s Emergency Management team since 2014. Last week, UCF Associate Vice President of Public Safety and Chief of Police Carl Metzger ’03MS appointed Joe Thalheimer ’08 as the director of Emergency Management. The announcement comes after an exhaustive search. Metzger is confident in Thalheimer, who has led the department in an interim role since July 2019. “Joe has done an incredible job since stepping into the role of interim director,” says Metzger. “Since then, he’s been handling his old job duties, along with leading the Emergency Management team during Hurricane Dorian, the coronavirus pandemic and preparing for the 2020 hurricane season. I’m extremely impressed by what he’s accomplished so far and can’t wait to see what ideas he has for the future.” Thalheimer, who graduated from UCF with a bachelor’s degree in criminal justice, has been a part of UCF’s Emergency Management team since 2014, where he was hired as the first warning and communication coordinator. He was later promoted to the manager of Operations and Technology before assuming the role of interim director of Emergency Management. He was a founding staff member and senior operations coordinator at UCF’s College of Medicine prior to joining the Emergency Management team. From 2005 to 2012, he also served as the assistant security supervisor for the Orange County Convention Center, where he was responsible for physical security, transportation planning and emergency preparedness. While in this role, he represented the convention center at the Orange County Emergency Operations Center, which is where his love of Emergency Management started. “I’m very excited and honored to be chosen for this role,” says Thalheimer. “Working at UCF has been enjoyable, thanks in large part to the people I work with. They make what can be a very stressful job fun, and there’s no where else I’d rather be.” Thalheimer is the first in his family to graduate from college, and his oldest daughter is a second-generation Knight. When he’s not in the Emergency Operations Center, he enjoys spending time with his wife and three kids in their RV, watching any UCF sport, and cheering on the New York Mets. More Topics UCF Alumni College of Community Innovation and Education UCF Police Department UCFPD Office of Emergency Management Share this content on Facebook Tweet this content Share this content on LinkedIn Related Stories How to Prepare for Hurricane Season UCFPD Welcomes New Deputy Chief — Highest-Ranking Female in Agency History UCF Emergency Management Receives Recognition from National Weather Service Melbourne A Guide to Health and Safety at UCF A Letter to Students About the 2021-22 School Year UCFPD Welcomes New Officers, Adds New Training PHOTOS: Student COVID-19 Vaccinations Begin at UCF UCF Student Vaccinations Start This Week University of Central Florida About UCF Contact Us Faculty Online Degrees Policies Privacy Notice Public Records Regulations Report a Concern UCF News 4000 Central Florida Blvd. Orlando, Florida, 32816 | 407.823.2000 © University of Central Florida