Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Search Type Faculty & Staff Event Featured Profile News Opportunity Resource Student Research Project Videos Search Menu Info for… [Select an Audience] [Select An Audience] Admitted Graduate Students Current Graduate Students Employers Departments» Applied Physics and Applied Mathematics Biomedical Engineering Chemical Engineering Civil Engineering and Engineering Mechanics Computer Science Earth and Environmental Engineering Electrical Engineering Industrial Engineering and Operations Research Mechanical Engineering Admissions» Application Requirements Apply Admissions Events Campus Tours Frequently Asked Questions Graduate Funding Opportunities Tuition and Financial Aid Visit Us Brochures Graduate Student Life» Professional Development & Leadership Housing New Student Checklist Student Organizations Campus Resources Graduate Career Placement Graduation Class Day 2022 events for Graduate Students Fellowships & Opportunities The Graduate Student Affairs Team Graduate Students Resources Events & Activities Diversity and Community Engagement» Events Student Life Bridge to PhD Program Graduate Enrollment Services» Registration Requests Change of Status Change of Status Forms Learning Online Resources List» Columbia Engineering COVID-19 Emergency Fund for Doctoral Students Virtual Event Opportunities» Welcome New Students!» New Student Checklist Admitted Student Webinars Applying for a Visa Campus Resources Connect Engineering Welcome Day & Orientation Housing Information International Student Panel Frequently Asked Questions Program Kick-Off Schedule Apply Now News Bulletin Graduate Engineering Home > Graduate Student Life Columbia University and Engineering School Resources Professional Development & Leadership Housing New Student Checklist Engineering Community Standards Student Organizations Campus Resources Graduate Career Placement Graduation Fellowships & Opportunities The Graduate Student Affairs Team Graduate Students Resources Columbia University supports students by offering an extensive set of resources throughout the entire student cycle. As a Graduate Student at Columbia Engineering, students may browse the list below to find support for a specific issue. Academics Bulletin From course descriptions, to rules, regulations, and disciplinary procedures for the school, the bulletin is a robust resource for students Columbia University Information Technology The office provides IT services and support to empower Columbia. The Office of Graduate Student Services The office is the primary source for university-related questions and is an important link between students, administrators, and academic departments. Questions and issues that the office can help with include : Clarification of academic policies and procedures Changes in Status General questions, concerns or difficulties Academic standing, academic warnings, and probation Voluntary and medical withdrawals Receiving Advanced Standing Credits Health & Wellness Alice! Alice! Is Columbia University’s Health Education program and consists of a team of professional health educators that lead workshops, train student leaders, public printed and online health information, and coordinate special projects - all providing guidance and encourage wellness. Alice! is best known for its interactive health Q & A Web service, “Go Ask Alice!,” which has a growing archive of more than 2,000 inquiries and responses on everything from sunscreen to STDs. Athletics The university offers various athletic facilities and programs to support the entire Columbia community sustain their health & fitness. Counseling and Psychological Services CPS supports the psychological and emotional well-being of the campus community by providing counseling, consultation, and crisis intervention - all confidential. Health Services at Columbia Columbia Health has a number of resources available to support students - both mental and physical health. Disability Services at Columbia Students seeking reasonable accommodations or support services from Disability Services (DS) are required to register with the office. Public Safety The department is committed to making the Columbia University campus and its surroundings safe for the community. Community Involvement Community Impact The organization serves individuals in need in the communities of Upper Manhattans with volunteering & leadership opportunities available for students. Engineering Graduate Student Council The Engineering Graduate Student Council is the student governing body of the graduate and PhD students at Columbia Engineering. Office of the University Champlain The office designs and sponsors a variety of programs on matters of justice faith and spirituality for small and large campus groups. Professional Development The Professional Development and Leadership course offers special workshops, labs, competitions, and courses that build your professional skills, your network, and your confidence. We offer over 300 sessions annually for our BS, MS and PhD students. This is a degree requirement for our MS students. Columbia University Individual Development Plan (IDP) Program The Columbia University Individual Development Plan (IDP) program is designed to help participants recognize the importance of managing one’s own career, develop strategies to help with career management, and comprehend the purpose and value of an IDP. Program participants will become familiar with a variety of career options, and learn which skills and experiences are necessary to pursues these career paths. Through involvement in the IDP series and workshops, participants will also be able to develop skills relevant to a variety of careers. Graduate Career Placement The Graduate Career Placement Team is dedicated to supporting you in the job search process. Each and every MS student is assigned to a Career Placement Coach to help you every step of the way. Administrative Support Student Financial Planning for Graduate Engineering The Office of Student Financial Planning provides financial aid information to Graduate Engineering students. It is the central contact for counseling Master of Science students. ID Center The center procures the student University ID Card - the passport to services and access to Columbia University. International Students and Scholars Office (ISSO) ISSO offers various services for international students as well as American citizens and permanent residents who have received their education in a foreign country. Office of the Registrar The office works with academic departments and schools to review student’s progress toward the completion of their degrees and certificates; post degrees, honors, and grades. The office also processes requests for academic transcripts and certifications - and orders and distributes diplomas Student Financial Services SFS is in charge of monitoring student accounts including tuition, meals, health services, and other fees. University Apartment Housing The department manages approximately 5,700 residential units in 143 buildings in the immediate vicinity of Columbia University. Off-Campus Housing The office supports students in finding off-campus residences. Fellowships Search for outside fellowships and scholarships in our database. In addition, you may also consult the following resources for additional options and sources: Office of Student Financial Planning Center for Teaching and Learning Career Placement and Student Affairs Contacts Connect with your Career Placement Officer and Department Student Affairs representative! Connect Now DISABILITY SERVICES The Columbia University Office of Disability Services serves students within all Columbia University schools and departments. The ODS works with each engineering student and Graduate Student Affairs to address specific needs. Monday–Friday, 9:00 a.m.–5:00 p.m. 212-854-2388 212-854-2378 (tdd) 212-854-3448 (fax) [email protected] REGISTER WITH DISABILITY SERVICES HAVE AN EMERGENCY? Call Public Safety at (212) 854-5555 Public Safety Resources Download Lion Safe App Office of Graduate Student Affairs 500 W. 120th Street New York, NY 10027 Admissions (212) 854-4688 | [email protected] Academics and Student Affairs (212) 854-6438 | [email protected] Apply Now Plan a Visit Directory Columbia Engineering Columbia University