Skip to main content Skip to main navigation Law Menu Baylor Law About News Mission Statement and Core Values Baylor Law Learning Outcomes Practice Ready Law Professors, Life Coaches The Quarter System Quick Facts Public Service Legal Clinics Special Events Notice of Non-Discrimination Building Hours Contact Us History 100 Years of Practice Court Baylor Law Virtual Tours Academics Academic Calendar Academic Services Advocacy Transactional Degree Programs Executive LL.M. in Litigation Management Baylor Law Learning Outcomes Experiential Learning Legal Writing Study Abroad at St Andrews Baylor Law Review Admissions Explore Apply Finance Visit Admitted Students Quick Facts Executive LL.M. in Litigation Management Consumer Information (ABA Required Disclosures) Alumni & Giving Alumni Resources Get Involved Give Back Baylor Law School Alumni Information Update Submit Alumni Note Career Development Employers Current Students Employment Statistics Contact the CDO Baylor Law School Current Students Academic Services Calendars Health & Wellness Policies and Feedback Professional Development Leadership Development Student Life Title IX ABA Required Disclosures Law School Home Events Event Calendars Emergency and Closure Information Faculty & Staff Faculty and Staff Directory Faculty Scholarship Faculty and Staff News Faculty and Staff Resources Law School Home Library Library Collection Electronic Resources Library Services Policies and Information Library Online Catalog Technology Law School Baylor Law School 2015 Top Gun Baylor>Baylor Law>Academics>Advocacy>Top Gun National Mock Trial Competition>2015 Top Gun Competition 2015 Top Gun Baylor Law School’s 2015 Top Gun National Mock Trial Competition Now in its sixth year, Baylor Law School's Top Gun National Mock Trial Competition is an innovative, invitation-only mock trial tournament in which the single best advocates from the nation's top 16 trial advocacy schools go head-to-head. Videos Introduction Video Final Round Video Photo Gallery Orientation Dinner Preliminary Rounds Final Round Competitors and Award Winners Rahul Hari of New York University's School of Law was crowned the winner of the 2015 Baylor Law School Top Gun National Mock Trial Competition. Hari successfully convinced a jury comprised of experienced trial attorneys to return a verdict in his favor at the end of the competition's intense final round - narrowly defeating Ben Wallace of Yale Law School. Hari received the $10,000 prize and rightfully earned the title "Top Gun." "This is by far the best trial competition I've ever been to," said Hari. "I've been involved in mock trial for more than ten years and I first heard about Top Gun in college when a friend of mine competed. Since then, I've wanted to compete here." "When we created Top Gun in 2010, we saw a need for a new type of competition that provides a forum to challenge the very best mock trial competitors," said Gerald Powell, the Abner V. McCall Professor of Evidence at Baylor Law School. "This competition gives young advocates the chance to go up against the very best of their peers, and gives all of us an opportunity to see the most experienced and talented law students in the country," continued Powell. "I hope all of our competitors leave with a sense of pride in what they have accomplished." Unlike other mock trial competitions, participants do not receive the case file until they arrive in Waco - only 24 hours before the first round of trials begin. Preparation includes reviewing depositions, records, and photographs, and taking a trip to the actual place where events in the case supposedly occurred, and of course developing a theory of the case. Shortly before each round, competitors are assigned a witness or witnesses who may be used at their discretion during the round. Baylor Law, as the organizing institution, does not field a team. "Top Gun is unique in so many ways - competitors only have 24 hours to prepare the case; there is only one lawyer for each side; the case file changes in some respect every day of the competition; and then there is the prize money - $10,000 thanks to our great friends at Naman Howell Smith & Lee," said Powell. Baylor Law School's Top Gun National Mock Trial Competition is sponsored by the law firm Naman Howell Smith & Lee, PLLC, which has offices in Austin, Fort Worth, San Antonio, and Waco. "This is the overall best run competition I've probably ever attended," said finalist Ben Wallace from Yale. "It's an unbelievable challenge to put together and present a case in such a short period of time and the only way you are even able to do it, is when you have an incredibly well written case and an incredibly well run competition. This is my second time here and it's always a pleasure," Wallace added. A woman scorned, a P.I. turned murderer, and a dead husband. This year's case had all the twists, turns, and drama of an episode of "Law and Order." Fictional character Ellen Moody was charged in federal court with Commission of Murder for Hire after her cheating husband is found dead in his home office. Containing over 150 documents, including court papers, witness statements, evidentiary exhibits, photos, and interrogation and surveillance video, this year's fictional case continued to exemplify the attention to detail and realism for which the Top Gun competition has become nationally known. Sgt. Keith Vaughn of the Waco Police Department Crime Scene Forensics Unit, Baylor Forensic Anthropology Lecturer and Retired Texas Ranger Jim Huggins, as well as attorneys Derek and Lara Hollingsworth from Rusty Hardin & Associates, LLP provided expert consultation and analysis of the problem. Vaughn and Huggins also took the stand, testifying during the final round, adding a sense of realism rarely found in mock trial competitions. Serving as the presiding judge during the final round was the Honorable Amos Mazzant, Judge of the United States District Court, Eastern District of Texas. Serving on the jury were: Malcolm Bales, United States Attorney for the Eastern District of Texas Roy Barrett, Chairman of the Board, Naman Howell Smith & Lee, PLLC Brit Featherston, Executive Assistant United States Attorney, United States Attorney's Office, Eastern District of Texas Derek Hollingsworth, Partner, Rusty Hardin & Associates, LLP Lara Hollingsworth, Of Counsel, Rusty Hardin & Associates, LLP Lyn Robbins, Senior General Attorney, BNSF Railway Katie Sweeten, Assistant District Attorney, Travis County Beth Toben, Assistant District Attorney, Limestone County Like Baylor Law School, the 16 participating law schools are well known for their trial advocacy programs. This year's Top Gun competitors were: Annie Berry - American University, Washington College of Law Jonathan Coppom - University of Denver, Sturm College of Law Selena Farnesi - University of the Pacific, McGeorge School of Law Chad Florin - Stetson University College of Law Fady Hanalla - Washington University School of Law Rahul Hari - New York University School of Law Victoria Miranda - Temple University, Beasley School of Law Grace Pusavat - Brigham Young University, J. Reuben Clark Law School Kaitlin Rothecker - Campbell University School of Law Elliott Smith - Faulkner University, Jones School of Law Aaron Spurlock - Hofstra University, Maurice A. Deane School of Law Rush Thrift - Samford University, Cumberland School of Law Christienne Valone - Loyola Law School, Los Angeles Ben Wallace - Yale Law School Nicolette Ward - Chicago-Kent College of Law Jason Wu - University of California, Berkeley School of Law In addition to winner Rahul Hari from NYU School of Law and finalist Ben Wallace from Yale Law School, the semi-finalists were Kaitlin Rothecker from Campbell University School of Law and Selena Farnesi from University of the Pacific, McGeorge School of Law. Farnesi also won the Professionalism Award and Jonathan Coppom and Grant Grosgebauer (technology assistant) of the University of Denver, Sturm College of Law won the Best Use of Technology Award. Written by: Nick Teixeira Email: Nick_Teixeira@baylor.edu ABOUT BAYLOR LAW SCHOOL Established in 1857, Baylor Law School was one of the first law schools in Texas and one of the first west of the Mississippi River. Today, the school has more than 7,200 living alumni. It is accredited by the American Bar Association and is a member of the Association of American Law Schools. Baylor Law School has a record of producing outstanding lawyers, many of whom decide upon a career in public service. The Law School boasts two governors, members or former members of the U.S. House of Representatives and the U.S. Senate, two former directors of the FBI, U.S. ambassadors, federal judges, justices of the Texas Supreme Court and members of the Texas Legislature, among its notable alumni. In its law specialties rankings, U.S. News & World Report ranked Baylor Law's trial advocacy program as #3 in the nation. Baylor Law School is also ranked No. 51 in the magazine's 2018 edition of “America's Best Graduate Schools.” The National Jurist ranks Baylor Law in its top 10 law schools for practical training, and second best value in private legal education in the nation. The Business Insider places Baylor Law among the top 50 law schools in the nation. ABOUT BAYLOR UNIVERSITY Baylor University is a private Christian University and a nationally ranked research institution, characterized as having "high research activity" by the Carnegie Foundation for the Advancement of Teaching. The University provides a vibrant campus community for approximately 16,000 students by blending interdisciplinary research with an international reputation for educational excellence and a faculty commitment to teaching and scholarship. Chartered in 1845 by the Republic of Texas through the efforts of Baptist pioneers, Baylor is the oldest continually operating University in Texas. Located in Waco, Baylor welcomes students from all 50 states and more than 80 countries to study a broad range of degrees among its 12 nationally recognized academic divisions. Baylor sponsors 19 D1 varsity athletic teams and is a founding member of the Big XII Conference. Learn more at baylor.edu Academics Academic Calendar Academic Services Advocacy Top Gun National Mock Trial Competition 2021 Top Gun XII Top Gun XI - How We Did It 2020 Top Gun XI 2019 Top Gun X 2018 Top Gun Competition 2017 Top Gun Competition 2016 Top Gun Competition 2015 Top Gun Competition Transactional Practice Ready Transactional Courses Professional Tracks & Capstones Transactional Dual Degree Programs Transactional Faculty Transactional Law & Practice Court Legal Writing Business Law Boot Camp The Closer National Transactional Law Competition 2023 | The Closer 2022 | The Closer 2021 | The Closer 2020 | The Closer 2019 | The Closer 2018 | The Closer 2017 | The Closer In House Counsel Externship Program Competition Opportunities and Results for Current Students Transactional Law Mentorship Program Degree Programs Executive LL.M. in Litigation Management Baylor Law Learning Outcomes Experiential Learning Practice Court Program Legal Clinics Entrepreneurship Clinic Estate Planning Clinic Immigration Clinic IP Law Clinic Trial Advocacy Clinic Veterans Clinic Transactional Capstones Public Service Baylor Law's Pro Bono and Public Service Program Adoption Day People's Law School People's Law School | 2022 People's Law School 2022 Class Schedule People's Law School 2022 Survey People's Law School | 2021 Service Opportunities for Law Students Waco McLennan Pro Bono Challenge Waco McLennan Pro Bono Challenge Hours Recording Form Waco McLennan Pro Bono Challenge Sign-up Waco McLennan Outstanding Pro Bono Advocate Awards DAYL Pro Bono Challenge DAYL Pro Bono Challenge Hours Recording Form DAYL Pro Bono Challenge Sign-Up DAYL Pro Bono Annual Challenge Results DAYL Pro Bono Partners Service Award Resources Student Awards Competitions Intramural Opportunities Intermural Opportunities Externships Leadership Development Program Legal Mapmaker Legal Mapmaker Program Payment Study Abroad Legal Writing Integrated Approach Writing Courses Writing Faculty The Ultimate Writer Competition The Paper Chase Legal Writing Competition Study Abroad at St Andrews Baylor Law Review Show More General Information Colleges, Schools, Libraries & Research Admissions Administration Gateways For... About Baylor Anonymous Reporting Athletics Ask Baylor Bookstore Calendar Campus Map Directory Give Light Give to Baylor Illuminate Mental Health Resources News Pro Futuris Report It Search Social Media Title IX Baylor Libraries College of Arts & Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work George W. Truett Theological Seminary Graduate School Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Louise Herrington School of Nursing Research at Baylor University Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Engineering & Computer Science School of Music More Academics Undergraduate Admissions goBAYLOR Graduate Admissions Baylor Law School Admissions Social Work Graduate Programs George W. Truett Theological Seminary Admissions Online Graduate Professional Education Virtual Tour Visit Campus Annual Fire Safety and Security Notice Athletics Human Resources Marketing and Communications Office of General Counsel Office of the President Office of the Provost Operations, Finance & Administration Senior Administration Student Life University Advancement Baylor Alumni Faculty & Staff Online Graduate Professional Education Parents Prospective Faculty & Staff Prospective Students Students Sheila & Walter Umphrey Law Center 1114 South University Parks Drive One Bear Place #97288 Waco, Texas 76798 tel (254) 710-1911 fax (254) 710-2316 Building Hours Monday - Friday 8:00am - 5:00pm Saturday - Sunday Closed Holidays Closed Copyright © Baylor® University. All rights reserved. Legal Disclosures. Baylor University • Waco, Texas 76798 • 1-800-229-5678 About News Submit News Mission Statement and Core Values Baylor Law Learning Outcomes Practice Ready Law Professors, Life Coaches The Quarter System Quick Facts Public Service Legal Clinics Special Events LEAD Counsel - Making a Difference Conference 2021 | Making a Difference Conference Baylor Law Students 2020 | Vision for Leadership Conference 2019 | Making a Difference Conference 2018 | Making a Difference Conference 2017 | Making a Difference Conference Starr Federalist Papers Lecture Series Presented by John and Marie Chiles R. Matt Dawson Lecture Series Notice of Non-Discrimination Building Hours Contact Us History 100 Years of Practice Court Baylor Law Virtual Tours Academics Academic Calendar Academic Services Advocacy Top Gun National Mock Trial Competition 2021 Top Gun XII Top Gun XI - How We Did It 2020 Top Gun XI 2019 Top Gun X 2018 Top Gun Competition 2017 Top Gun Competition 2016 Top Gun Competition 2015 Top Gun Competition Transactional Practice Ready Transactional Courses Professional Tracks & Capstones Transactional Dual Degree Programs Transactional Faculty Transactional Law & Practice Court Legal Writing Business Law Boot Camp The Closer National Transactional Law Competition 2023 | The Closer 2022 | The Closer 2021 | The Closer 2020 | The Closer 2019 | The Closer 2018 | The Closer 2017 | The Closer In House Counsel Externship Program Competition Opportunities and Results for Current Students Transactional Law Mentorship Program Degree Programs Executive LL.M. in Litigation Management Baylor Law Learning Outcomes Experiential Learning Practice Court Program Legal Clinics Entrepreneurship Clinic Estate Planning Clinic Immigration Clinic IP Law Clinic Trial Advocacy Clinic Veterans Clinic Transactional Capstones Public Service Baylor Law's Pro Bono and Public Service Program Adoption Day People's Law School People's Law School | 2022 People's Law School 2022 Class Schedule People's Law School 2022 Survey People's Law School | 2021 Service Opportunities for Law Students Waco McLennan Pro Bono Challenge Waco McLennan Pro Bono Challenge Hours Recording Form Waco McLennan Pro Bono Challenge Sign-up Waco McLennan Outstanding Pro Bono Advocate Awards DAYL Pro Bono Challenge DAYL Pro Bono Challenge Hours Recording Form DAYL Pro Bono Challenge Sign-Up DAYL Pro Bono Annual Challenge Results DAYL Pro Bono Partners Service Award Resources Student Awards Competitions Intramural Opportunities Intermural Opportunities Externships Leadership Development Program Legal Mapmaker Legal Mapmaker Program Payment Study Abroad Legal Writing Integrated Approach Writing Courses Writing Faculty The Ultimate Writer Competition The Paper Chase Legal Writing Competition Study Abroad at St Andrews Baylor Law Review Admissions Explore Student Profiles Adan Abu-Hakmeh Lexie Ammons Allison Barber Paolo Ferrel Paige Heitkamp Drake Pew Leah Reyes Sami Shaffer Program Overview Advocacy Transactional Practice Legal Writing Experiential Learning Quarter System Community Career Development Curriculum More Information Request a Viewbook Is Law School Right for You? Consumer Information (ABA Required Disclosures) Accreditation Notice of Non-Discrimination Apply Dates and Deadlines Application Requirements JD Applicants Transfer and Visiting Student Applicants International Student Applicants Joint Degree Applicants Denied Application Review Quick Facts Application Status Checker Admissions FAQs Admissions Policies Finance Estimated Costs Financial Aid FAQs Scholarships Loans Veteran Information Financial Aid Step-by-Step Visit Individual Visits External Recruiting Events Open Houses Interviews Virtual Tours Pre-Law Visits Visiting Waco Finding the Admissions Office Admitted Students Next Steps Admitted Students Packet Scholarship Reconsideration Request Pay Your Seat Deposit Apply for Financial Aid Update Your Contact Information Set Up Your Student ID and Email Visits and Events Schedule an Individual Visit Attend an Admitted Students Day Watch a Virtual Tour Attend an Admitted Students Meal View a Recorded Session Attend an Open House Registration and Orientation Quick Facts Executive LL.M. in Litigation Management Consumer Information (ABA Required Disclosures) Alumni & Giving Alumni Resources Get Involved Give Back Baylor Law School Alumni Information Update Submit Alumni Note Career Development Employers Current Students Employment Statistics Contact the CDO Baylor Law School Current Students Academic Services Calendars Health & Wellness Policies and Feedback Professional Development Leadership Development Student Life Title IX ABA Required Disclosures Law School Home Events Event Calendars Emergency and Closure Information Faculty & Staff Faculty and Staff Directory Faculty Scholarship Faculty and Staff News Faculty and Staff Resources Law School Home Library Library Collection Electronic Resources Library Services Policies and Information Library Online Catalog Technology Law School