Skip navigation Find: A to Z Index People Directory Learn More: About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life Information For: Current Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Information For: Current Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Brown University Modern Culture and Media Home Black Lives Matter Confronting Anti-Asian Bias and Violence About People Undergraduate Program Theory based Practice based Capstone Honors Independent Study MCM DUG 5th Year Master’s Degree in Modern Culture and Media Resources FAQ Graduate Program Courses Production Alumni Diversity and Inclusion Initiatives Events 2020-2021 Past Events MCM News Print this Page Share this Page Modern Culture and Media Brown University Box 1957 155 George Street Providence, RI 02912 Phone 401-863-2853 Fax 401-863-2158 [email protected] Brown About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life A to Z Index People Directory m.Brown.edu News Events Visit Campus Life Map Directory Brown Apps Safety About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life A to Z Index People Directory Modern Culture and Media Undergraduate Program The 5th Year Master’s Degree in Modern Culture and Media The 5th Year Master’s Degree in Modern Culture and Media The 5th Year Master’s Degree in Modern Culture and Media The 5th Year Master’s Degree in Modern Culture and Media allows an MCM concentrator to continue at Brown for a master’s degree after completing the bachelor’s degree. Two courses taken as an undergraduate will be counted toward the master’s degree, leaving six courses to be taken in the postgraduate year and only six tuition units to be paid for the usual eight course degree. Students cannot transfer a graduate course taken at another school. Integration of undergraduate and graduate coursework University regulations mandate that the student must take enough courses to earn each degree independently; that is, no courses may count towards both degrees. Because of this, the department requires that, by the end of the fourth year, the candidate must have taken two extra MCM courses over and above requirements for the MCM concentration. These extra courses must be appropriate for graduate credit (1000- or 2000-level MCM courses.) The reason is the following. Eight courses are required for the M.A. in Modern Culture and Media. First-year graduate students normally take six courses, and this is what 5th Year Master’s students will do during their fifth year. Therefore, to meet the eight-course requirement for the fifth year, the department requires two applicable courses before the fifth year. Note: While, the two extra courses applying to the M.A. may not count towards an undergraduate concentration in MCM, they may still count towards the 30-course graduation requirement for the bachelor’s degree. MCM concentrators considering applying to this program should consult with the Director of Graduate Studies as well as their undergraduate advisor about the two extra courses. In the fifth year, courses will be chosen in consultation with the Director of Graduate Studies, who will be the student’s advisor. Applying to the program A student must apply for the program no later than the second week of the final semester of undergraduate study. Admission must be approved by the Department of Modern Culture and Media and by the Graduate School. While a student must be enrolled as an active undergraduate student at the time of application, admission to the graduate program can be deferred for up to two years with approval of the program. Requirements for Admission to the program: The applicant must be a concentrator in MCM with a 3.5 GPA in MCM courses. Application deadline: A student must make application no later than the second week of his or her final semester of undergraduate study. Submissions to the department: The applicant must write a letter to the Director of Graduate Studies informing the department in writing that she or he is applying to the 5th Year Master’s program in MCM. This letter should indicate MCM faculty with whom the applicant has worked. The applicant must also provide a writing sample of work done for an MCM class. The writing sample should be included with the letter. Submissions to the Graduate School: In addition, the applicant must complete the online application and the 5th-Year Master’s Degree Application Supplement Form. Both applications can be obtained from the Graduate School website. Two letters of recommendation are required. Requirements for the M.A. in the 5th Year Master’s Degree Coursework: A total of 8 courses suitable for graduate credit (1000- or 2000- level, including production) and approved by the MCM Director of Graduate Studies. None of these may be courses that count towards the undergraduate degree. Among these eight courses, candidates are required to take at least one 2000-level MCM course in each of the following areas: Theory (Normally fulfilled by one of the following: MCM2100, MCM2110, MCM2120.) Textual Analysis (Normally fulfilled by one of the following: MCM2300, MCM2310.) Historical/Cultural Locations (Normally fulfilled by one of the following: MCM2500, MCM2510.) 90-minute Qualifying Review: Administered by the Graduate Committee upon completion of coursework. There is a description of the Qualifying Review for doctoral candidates in the department’s Graduate Student Handbook. The exam will be modified to make it suitable for a terminal M.A. candidate. Also in Modern Culture and Media Home Black Lives Matter Confronting Anti-Asian Bias and Violence About People Undergraduate Program Theory based Practice based Capstone Honors Independent Study MCM DUG 5th Year Master’s Degree in Modern Culture and Media Resources FAQ Graduate Program Courses Production Alumni Diversity and Inclusion Initiatives Events 2020-2021 Past Events MCM News Print this Page Share this Page Modern Culture and Media Brown University Box 1957 155 George Street Providence, RI 02912 Phone 401-863-2853 Fax 401-863-2158 [email protected] Calendar Jun 2 All Day “Tomboy” Exhibit View full calendar > Resources A to Z Index Career Opportunities Make a Gift People Directory Find MCM Facebook Twitter Instagram 155 George Street (Main Office) 135 Thayer Street Brown University Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-1000 Maps & Directions / Contact Us © 2022 Brown University Connect: [email protected] Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram iTunes U Google+ LinkedIn RSS Futurity