Skip to main content Skip to primary site menu Skip to primary site search Google Tag Manager Research at Brown Show/Hide Home Conducting Research at Brown Centers, Institutes and Libraries Undergraduate Research Assistance How Do I...? About the Office ORSD | ORI | OSP | RAIS | BROWN TECHNOLOGY INNOVATIONS | RMS | RAC | OVPR PARTNERS MISSION The Office of the Vice President for Research (OVPR) at Brown University strategically collaborates with internal and external stakeholders to accelerate the global impact of Brown University’s research and scholarship. Jill Pipher, Vice President for Research About Jill Pipher VISION Brown’s innovative research drives broad, positive change across the globe. The OVPR team provides the expertise needed to uphold the high, ethical standard that is the hallmark of research at Brown. The OVPR staff are flexible and anticipate the needs of Brown researchers, and serve as key partners to the non-profit, government and industry sectors. As a result, Brown researchers engage in successful collaborations within and beyond the University. VALUES Leadership: Inspire others to discover, communicate, and preserve knowledge about Brown research; advocate for the research enterprise; and amplify its success. Diversity: Recognize that excellence comes from engagement with multiple perspectives and experiences. Collaboration: Encourage effective partnerships and create outstanding solutions by working with others inside and outside the University. Empowerment: Ensure that the Brown community has the necessary information and resources to advance research and boost its impact. Innovation: Harness creativity and the spirit of invention to find routes to success. Office of Research STRATEGY AND Development (ORSD) The Research Strategy and Development office identifies and disseminates funding opportunities, supports development of research teams and submission of large proposals, manages internal research funding programs and limited submission opportunities, and supports smaller departments on pre- and post-award financial management. back to top Office of Research Integrity (ORI) The Office of Research Integrity (ORI) supports the Brown University research community by providing administrative support and regulatory advisement to the University’s Institutional Review Board (IRB), Institutional Animal Care and Use Committee (IACUC), and Conflict of Interest Review Board. ORI also facilitates the University’s Export Control compliance program and the conduct of ethical research. ORI provides centralized support, education, and policy development to facilitate and promote the responsible and ethical acquisition, use, sharing and maintenance of research data at Brown. ORI also centrally manages the review, negotiation, and execution of Data Use Agreements that involve research data. back to top Office of Sponsored Projects (OSP) The Office of Sponsored Projects (OSP) supports Brown University faculty and staff in the acquisition, performance, and administration of projects and programs funded from external sources. The office services include: compliance with governmental and private funding agency standards; review and submission of proposals for administrative and regulatory compliance; award negotiation and acceptance on behalf of Brown University; dissemination of research policy information to campus; establishment of subaward agreements and conduct of subrecipient monitoring; oversight and advising on financial management of sponsored projects, including financial reporting, cash management, effort reporting, and monitoring of cost-share arrangements; addressing financial and administrative issues that arise during the life of a sponsored project; coordination of award close-out process; and providing education and professional development opportunities in research administration for the campus community. back to top Research Administration Information Systems (RAIS) The RAIS group provides technical support for all electronic systems and databases overseen by the OVPR, including implementation of Info Ed. back to top BROWN TECHNOLOGY INNOVATIONS The mission of Brown Technology Innovations is to put Brown University’s technology first to drive commercial outcomes that benefit the University and society. With its responsibilities to manage the university’s patent portfolio, the Brown University technology transfer office, called Brown Technology Innovations is first and foremost focused on commercialization. Technology Innovations serve two customers: the faculty members who provide invention disclosures for patenting and commercialization; and the investors, entrepreneurs and companies that develop university technology. The faculty customer engages with our office concerning technology – specifically the evaluation of invention disclosures, the technology’s patenting and its licensing. The technology investor customer works with our office because they wish to obtain or support technology. For Brown Technology Innovations, the focus is on Technology First. back to top Research Management Support (RMS) Research Management Support provides hands-on assistance to faculty, staff and students throughout the life-cycle of an award. Support includes pre-award services, such as proposal preparation, submission, and budgeting, and post-award services, including financial management, monthly tracking reports, contract management and grant related hiring. Research Management Support is a resource for the Social Sciences, Humanities, and University Administrative Units such as the Library, Graduate School, and the Provost’s office, and other departments and administrative units during periods when departmental administrative staff are unable to provide these services themselves. Our team members have vast knowledge and can provide the tools you need to maximize your grant experience. back to top Research AGREEMENTS AND CONTRACTING (RAC) The Office of the Vice President for Research announces the official launch of the Research Agreements and Contracting (RAC) office. RAC is responsible for drafting, negotiating, and managing contracts and agreements in support of research at Brown. These agreements and contracts include MTAs, DUAs, Non-Funded Agreements, and other complex and unique contracts. back to top OVPR Partners Other Brown services for faculty research include: Office of Foundation Relations helps with private foundation research support; Brown University Library offers a research funding opportunity database and assistance with data management plans; and the Engaged Scholarship and Broader Impacts Committee helps with outreach plans design and implementation. back to top Conducting Research at Brown Finding Funding Research Strategy and Development (ORSD) Preparing and Submitting a Proposal Managing an Award Sponsored Projects (OSP) Research Compliance (IRB, IACUC, COI, Export Control, Research Data Management and Data Use Agreements) Brown Technology Innovations Research Administration Information Systems (RAIS) Research Management Support (RMS) Research Agreements and Contracting International Research & Activities Responsible Conduct of Research (RCR) How Do I...? 2022 Research Achievement Award Winners About the Office Staff Contact Information About Jill Pipher Reports Research Advisory Board Organizational Charts Newsletter Forms and Policies Training and Outreach Graduate Student Resources Explore Brown University Search Brown Show/Hide Learn More About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life Find A to Z Index People Directory Information for Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Top Destinations Global Brown Watson Institute Graduate School Alpert Medical School School of Public Health School of Engineering Office of the Vice President for Research 350 Eddy Street | Brown University | Box 1937 | Providence, RI 02912 Vice President for Research 401-863-7408 [email protected] Research Strategy and Development 401-863-7999 [email protected] Brown Technology Innovations 401-863-7499 [email protected] Office of Sponsored Projects 401-863-2777 [email protected] Research Administration and Information Systems 401-863-2777 [email protected] Office of Research Integrity 401-863-3050 [email protected] @brownuresearch Giving to Brown Brown University Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-1000 Maps & Directions / Contact Us / Accessibility © 2022 Brown University Connect: [email protected] Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram iTunes U Google+ LinkedIn SnapChat