Skip navigation Find: A to Z Index People Directory Learn More: About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life Information For: Current Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Information For: Current Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Brown University Modern Culture and Media Home Black Lives Matter Confronting Anti-Asian Bias and Violence About People Undergraduate Program Graduate Program Courses Production Equipment Checkout Production Course Applications Alumni Diversity and Inclusion Initiatives Events 2020-2021 Past Events MCM News Print this Page Share this Page Modern Culture and Media Brown University Box 1957 155 George Street Providence, RI 02912 Phone 401-863-2853 Fax 401-863-2158 [email protected] Brown About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life A to Z Index People Directory m.Brown.edu News Events Visit Campus Life Map Directory Brown Apps Safety About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life A to Z Index People Directory Modern Culture and Media MCM Production at 135 Thayer Street MCM Production at 135 Thayer Street The Production Facility for MCM, which was completed at the end of 2003, is located at 135 Thayer Street in a thoroughly renovated old retail building. This facility raises the profile of an important component of the MCM program, namely the integration of a visual practice within the investigation of the theoretical discourses of the department. These practices have historically focused on film, video and sound production. This will now be furthered through the addition of faculty engaged with digital practices situated within new media and the virtual space of the internet. The 135 Thayer Street building houses two production studios and their requisite equipment: film and video cameras, sound recording decks, light kits, etc. Also located there is an editing suite equipped with software such as Davinci Resolve and Adobe Production Suite (including Adobe Premiere, After Effects, Photoshop, Audition and Media Encoder). Additional hardware in the edit space includes broadcast color accurate monitors and editing control surfaces. Students using this facility have 24 hour access. These facilities are supplemented by two other similarly equipped Multimedia Labs within the university. RESOURCES: Brown EHS's safety program for visual and performing art projects. SAO, working with EHS, TAPS and many student groups, assembled a system of safety oversight and a repository for technical and safety training resources to cover a wide range of student-led projects. To help everyone stay safe, this system follows projects - and advises the students who do them - from initial planning and design phases through to wrap and strike. Also in Modern Culture and Media Home Black Lives Matter Confronting Anti-Asian Bias and Violence About People Undergraduate Program Graduate Program Courses Production Equipment Checkout Production Course Applications Alumni Diversity and Inclusion Initiatives Events 2020-2021 Past Events MCM News Print this Page Share this Page Modern Culture and Media Brown University Box 1957 155 George Street Providence, RI 02912 Phone 401-863-2853 Fax 401-863-2158 [email protected] Calendar Jun 1 All Day “Tomboy” Exhibit View full calendar > Resources A to Z Index Career Opportunities Make a Gift People Directory Find MCM Facebook Twitter Instagram 155 George Street (Main Office) 135 Thayer Street Brown University Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-1000 Maps & Directions / Contact Us © 2022 Brown University Connect: [email protected] Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram iTunes U Google+ LinkedIn RSS Futurity