Georgetown University Open Search Form Who We Are The Whole Person Our Catholic & Jesuit Heritage Our History Student Stories Faculty Stories Alumni Stories Campus & City Living in DC Opportunities Getting Around Service & Action Campus Life Housing On-Campus Dining Clubs & Organizations Arts & Culture Community & Diversity Student Life Blog Wellness & Safety Sports & Fitness Health Center Safety & Emergency Preparedness Athletics External Link Academic Life Restless Inquiry Our Schools Areas of Study Study Abroad Research Centers and Programs Global Initiatives External Link Library System Admissions & Aid Undergraduate Admissions External Link Graduate Admissions Financial Aid External Link Commitment to Access News Events Giving Alumni Info For Students Faculty Staff/AAP Alumni Parents Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Content Skip to Footer News Events Giving Alumni Info For Students Faculty Staff/AAP Alumni Parents Georgetown University Who We Are The Whole Person Our Catholic & Jesuit Heritage Our History Student Stories Faculty Stories Alumni Stories Campus & City Living in DC Opportunities Getting Around Service & Action Campus Life Housing On-Campus Dining Clubs & Organizations Arts & Culture Community & Diversity Student Life Blog Wellness & Safety Sports & Fitness Health Center Safety & Emergency Preparedness Athletics External Link Academic Life Restless Inquiry Our Schools Areas of Study Study Abroad Research Centers and Programs Global Initiatives External Link Library System Admissions & Aid Undergraduate Admissions External Link Graduate Admissions Financial Aid External Link Commitment to Access Open Search Form Georgetown University Home Academic Life Areas of Study Areas of Study Filter Programs Toggle Filter Form Filter Programs Refine by Keyword Types of Degree 0 Expand Types of Degree Filter Checkboxes Bachelor's (Major) Bachelor's (Minor) Certificate Doctorate Dual Dual M.D./M.S. Dual M.D./Ph.D. Executive Education Graduate Certificate J.D. LLM M.D. Master's Non-degree Summer Programs Schools 0 Expand Schools Filter Checkboxes Georgetown College Georgetown Law Graduate School of Arts & Sciences McCourt School of Public Policy McDonough School of Business School of Continuing Studies School of Medicine School of Nursing & Health Studies Walsh School of Foreign Service Types of Program 0 Expand Types of Program Filter Checkboxes Executive Full-time High School Programs Hybrid In-person Online Part-time Summer Sessions Topics 0 Expand Topics Filter Checkboxes Accounting Art Bioethics Biomedical Business Communications Culture Data Economics Education Engineering Environment Ethics Finance Global Government Health History Humanities Interdisciplinary International International Development International Relations Language Law Leadership Management Marketing Mathematics Medicine Nursing Operations Policy Politics Programs for High School Students Religion Science Security Social Science Strategy Summer Programs Technology Technology Management Apply Filters Clear Filters Filtered Results Adult Gerontology Acute Care Nurse Practitioner Graduate School of Arts & Sciences, School of Nursing & Health Studies Certificate Master's Hybrid Online Part-time View More Through a hybrid blend of asynchronous didactic content, synchronous class sessions, and In-person on-campus intensives (OCIs), the Online Adult Gerontology Acute Care Nurse Practitioner (AG-ACNP) program from the School of Nursing & Health Studies prepares registered nurses (RNs) to manage the care of patients with acute and chronic conditions. Certificate option available for qualified students. Adult Gerontology Acute Care Nurse Practitioner Program (MS in Nursing) AG-ACNP Admission Requirements Advanced Biomedical Sciences (with George Mason University Joint Certificate) Graduate School of Arts & Sciences Graduate Certificate Full-time In-person Online View More The Advanced Biomedical Sciences (ABS) certificate program, in partnership with George Mason University, is offered through our GeorgeSquared Program. The program offers an outstanding biomedical sciences curriculum to enhance a student’s background for application to professional schools in the biomedical field. Graduate Certificate in Advanced Biomedical Sciences African American Studies Georgetown College Bachelor's (Major) Bachelor's (Minor) Full-time In-person View More African American Studies examines the experiences and contributions of people of the African diaspora in the United States and globally. By studying the intellectual, historical, cultural, economic, political, religious, literary, scientific, and social ideas, institutions, movements and practices of African Americans, the program provides the tools to theorize solutions to social issues rooted in longstanding and persistent racial divides. Bachelor's in African American Studies African Studies Georgetown College, Walsh School of Foreign Service Certificate Full-time In-person Part-time View More The Certificate in African Studies is designed to facilitate a fuller understanding of the continent, beyond narrow disciplinary lenses and various “crisis narratives.” The African Studies Certificate is open to undergraduate students in all schools of Georgetown University, regardless of major. Certificate in African Studies Aging and Health Graduate School of Arts & Sciences Master's Full-time In-person View More Our interdisciplinary program looks comprehensively at aging—a demographically inevitable process—and prepares students for emerging careers by shifting the conversation surrounding aging populations. Georgetown University’s new Master’s in Aging & Health goes beyond geriatrics to the study of aging well in today’s society. Master's in Aging and Health American Conversational English School of Continuing Studies Full-time In-person View More Spend three weeks living and learning in the heart of Washington, D.C., and engaging with classmates from more than 30 countries. Our American Conversational English program provides you with expert instruction in grammar, conversation, and listening skills. The focus of the program is on using English in everyday life while learning about American culture. Study American Conversational English American Musical Culture Georgetown College Bachelor's (Major) Full-time In-person View More The liberal arts degree in American Musical Culture integrates the University’s strengths in film/media, public policy, politics and social justice within the cultural sphere and is designed for students interested in pursuing careers and/or graduate study in arts management, entertainment law, media studies, music business, music journalism or musicology/ethnomusicology. Bachelor's in American Musical Culture American Studies Georgetown College Bachelor's (Major) Full-time In-person View More The American Studies Program at Georgetown University offers an interdisciplinary Major that encourages students to ask critical questions about power, identity, and American culture. The program provides a strong core of courses that help students develop new ways of thinking about the narratives and ideas that define this country. Bachelor's in American Studies Analytics Graduate School of Arts & Sciences Master's Full-time In-person View More Since the Fall of 2015, the Graduate School of Arts and Sciences has offered the Master of Science in Analytics with a concentration in Data Science degree. Instruction is provided by the Department of Computer Science and the Department of Mathematics and Statistics and the Analytics Program. The curriculum provides students with a rigorous training in computational, mathematical, and statistical methods to prepare them for careers in data science and analytics. Master's in Analytics Anthropology Georgetown College Bachelor's (Major) Bachelor's (Minor) Full-time In-person View More We teach students the scientific, interpretative and critical skills needed to conduct theoretically sound, methodologically rigorous and multifaceted analyses of human social phenomena at both the local and global levels. We offer students direct opportunities to develop and apply those skills through research and experiential learning activities in the Washington, D.C. community. Bachelor's in Anthropology Applied Economics Graduate School of Arts & Sciences Master's Full-time In-person View More The M.A. in Applied Economics program has a key objective to provide students with a solid foundation in microeconomic and macroeconomic theory, as well as coursework that provides students with the ability to comprehend empirical analyses pertinent to the discussion of economic issues and equip them with the skills to undertake original research projects and data analysis. After completion of core courses, students study the application of these tools of economic study to a range of contemporary economic problems. This material is covered in a range of elective courses focusing on more specialized areas of economics. Master's in Applied Economics Applied Intelligence School of Continuing Studies Master's Full-time In-person Online Part-time View More Our program prepares you to navigate today’s complex intelligence landscape. You’ll engage with a faculty of leading scholars and practitioners, and be exposed to the latest technologies and best practices. Ideal for working professionals, the program is offered Part-time, on campus, and Online. Master's in Applied Intelligence Applied Ophthalmic Personnel Training School of Medicine Certificate Full-time In-person Part-time View More The Georgetown University Ophthalmic Medical Personnel Training Program (OMPTP) is designed to prepare students for a career assisting ophthalmologists (medical eye doctors and surgeons), and to enhance the knowledge and skills of those already employed in the field of ophthalmic medical assisting. Certificate in Applied Ophthalmic Personnel Training Arab Studies Georgetown College, Graduate School of Arts & Sciences, Walsh School of Foreign Service Certificate Dual Master's Full-time In-person View More The Center for Contemporary Arab Studies is the only academic center in the United States focusing exclusively on the Arab world. Through a master’s program or an undergraduate or Graduate Certificate, students will be trained in the language, history, culture, society, politics, and economics of the contemporary Arab world. Study Arab Studies Arabic Georgetown College Bachelor's (Major) Bachelor's (Minor) Full-time In-person View More The undergraduate program orients the teaching of Arabic toward building language proficiency. This department focuses on teaching Arabic in its wider, more authentic contexts and in the principles of discourse and meaning. Today, this department plays a leading role in teaching Arabic beyond grammatical analysis to a wider scope of teaching Arabic in the realms of both linguistic and cultural proficiencies. Bachelor's in Arabic Arabic and Islamic Studies Graduate School of Arts & Sciences Doctorate Master's Full-time In-person View More The graduate programs in Arabic and Islamic Studies aim to combine a thorough understanding of the Arabic language with scholarly research in the literary, linguistic and intellectual traditions of the Arab and Islamic world. The Arabic and Islamic Studies Department offers graduate level courses in Arabic linguistics, Islamic studies, and literature of the classical and modern eras. M.A. students will complete one Major concentration and one Minor concentration towards the degree. Similarly, Ph.D. students who are admitted with advanced standing will complete one Major concentration and one Minor concentration towards the degree. Those who are admitted to the Ph.D. program without an earned master’s degree in a related field will complete one Major concentration and two Minor concentrations. Study Arabic and Islamic Studies Art Georgetown College Bachelor's (Major) Bachelor's (Minor) Full-time In-person View More Art can articulate and interpret ideas about ourselves, communities, histories, beliefs, politics, and environments in ways that are exceptionally direct. Students work with objects, make things, and grapple with forms and ideas across time and geography. To fulfill the mission of the comprehensive curriculum, the department offers the core components of traditional disciplines — painting, drawing, sculpture and printmaking, and has expanded into the realms of photography and electronic media. Bachelor's in Art Art and Museum Studies Graduate School of Arts & Sciences Master's Full-time In-person View More Master's in Art and Museum Studies Art History Georgetown College Bachelor's (Major) Bachelor's (Minor) Full-time In-person View More The study of art develops visual and critical abilities, and trains students to relate direct observation to historical, political, social, and environmental contexts. This work engages and expands upon students’ experiences in languages, literature, philosophy, theology, and other fields of study. Most art history courses (prefix ARTH) emphasize the study of original works of art in Washington area museums, and many involve intensive research and writing experience. Bachelor's in Art History Artificial Intelligence Management School of Continuing Studies Certificate In-person Online Part-time View More In the Certificate in Artificial Intelligence Management, you’ll have the opportunity to engage with leaders in technology and business strategy while exploring how applications of AI can be leveraged for competitive advantage. Using theory and real-world case studies, you’ll think strategically about organizational performance and gain insight into key policy issues affecting business leaders. Certificate in Artificial Intelligence Management Load More Contact Us Directory Visit Maps About Academic Calendar Careers Media Resources FacebookFacebook TwitterTwitter InstagramInstagram LinkedInLinkedIn YouTubeYouTube Georgetown University 37th and O Streets, N.W. Washington, D.C. 20057 P. 202-687-0100 Georgetown University Privacy Policy Copyright Web Accessibility Notice of Non-Discrimination © 2022 Georgetown University Search Georgetown Search Close the Search Dialog