Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Health Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Our Services Appointments Health Topics Events Forms and Guidelines Our Organization News See All Services What's Open Now Patient Resources Quarantine and Isolation Support Coping Tools Immunization Compliance Top Services Birth Control Education Individual Counseling Primary Care Register with Disability Services Sexual Assault: Get Support STI Testing Support Groups Travel Medicine Urgent Medical Concerns Workshops and Trainings Cost of Service Overview Make an Appointment Same Day Service Emergency and After-hours Support Alcohol Body Image Concerns Marijuana Disabilities Other Drugs HIV Insurance Men's Health Mental Health and Well-Being Anxiety Depression Stress Nutrition Physical Activity Relationships Overview Academic Relationships Friendships Roommates Sexual and Reproductive Health Sleep Transgender and Gender Expansive Health Violence Prevention Prevention Consent What Is Sexual Assault? Supporting a Survivor What Is Relationship Abuse? Stalking What Is Sexual Harassment? Bystander Intervention-Step UP! Women's Health See All Events Sexual Assault Awareness Month Columbia Health Flu Season Information Virtual Naloxone Training About Columbia Health Who We Are Who We Serve Confidentiality, Patient Rights, & Patient Responsibilities Operating Philosophy Video Library Your Feedback Staff Directory Health Units Alice! Health Promotion Counseling and Psychological Services Disability Services Gay Health Advocacy Project (GHAP) Insurance Office Medical Services Sexual Violence Response Columbia Health You are here: Home All Services Foreign Language Substitution or Modification Foreign Language Substitution or Modification Students with learning, speech, hearing, or other disabilities that significantly impact the ability to acquire a foreign language may request a course substitution or modification for a foreign language requirement. Accommodations may include: Course substitution Elementary sequence of two different languages P/D/F grade option Permission to record lectures Adjustments to class participation requirement NB: Foreign language substitutions are not available for undergraduate majors or graduate programs when studying a new language is essential to the field of study. Should I Request This Accommodation? Having a learning disability alone is not a valid predictor of success with language acquisition. Some students with learning disabilities may be successful in learning a foreign language by utilizing the following resources: Consult with an academic advisor when selecting a specific language to study. Use approved accommodations through Disability Services. Attend office hours or alternate sections of the course. Receive tutoring services from the Language Resource Center. Work with a Disability Services learning specialist to develop compensatory strategies. How to Request This Accommodation We recommend that students request this accommodation by the end of their sophomore year for undergraduate students and at the start of their academic program for graduate students. Requests will be considered at any point during the student’s academic program; however, requests made near the completion of the program may delay graduation. Register with Disability Services. Consult advisor or academic program about the language requirements of degree program. Submit to Disability Services: a completed Request for Foreign Language Substitution form a personal statement explaining reasons for the request documentation demonstrating significant difficulty with language-based tasks in reading, spelling, writing, speaking, or listening that impact language acquisition Disability Services requires four to six weeks to evaluate foreign language substitution requests and all related documentation. Disability Services will also review the student’s educational history concerning language study, consult with previous professors or other university officials, and consider the requirements of the student’s academic program. If an accommodation is approved by the student’s school or academic program and Disability Services, the student then consults with their academic program or advisor to determine which courses can substitute the original requirement. Final decisions on substitute courses are made by the advising dean and/or appropriate academic officials from the student’s school. Make an Appointment Closed Sorry, we are closed Open Now edit location Check out our office locations and hours Staff Directory Check out our list of staff at the office department page. Health Unit Disability Services Columbia Health Administration Wallach Hall, Suite 125, Mail Code 4202, 1116 Amsterdam Avenue · New York, NY 10027 Phone 212-854-2284 Contact Us [email protected] Internal Use Only Login to Access Follow Us Facebook Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close