Skip to main content iastate.edu Index A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z Directory Maps Safety Sign Ons AccessPlus Canvas CyBox CyMail Okta Outlook More Sign Ons... Iowa State University Student Counseling Services Menu Toggle Search Toggle Search Home About Us Staff Mission & Vision Diversity and Culture Contact Information Student Eligibility & Access History and Accreditation Services Getting Started Confidentiality Counseling Group Counseling and Workshops Group Counseling Guidelines Group & Workshop Offerings Orientation for Therapy Group Participants Individual Counseling Crisis Counseling Career Counseling Sport Psychology Veterinary Medicine Disordered Eating Services Career Services Career Resources Career Counseling Mind-Body Biofeedback What to Expect When Using Biofeedback Biofeedback Tips Mind-Body Spa Outreach & Presentations Consultations Presentations RESPOND Question, Persuade and Refer (QPR) Resources TAO Self-Help Let's Talk Information for Parents/Faculty/Staff Mental Health Topics Grief & Loss Men's Health and Wellness Community Referrals Online Resources Diversity and Culture Resources Mental Health Resources Brochures and Videos Forms and Policies FAQ Training APA Doctoral Internship Training Philosophy, Aim and Setting Services Provided Training Activities Special Emphasis Areas Admissions, Support and Initial Placement Data Supervisors and Interns About Iowa State and Ames Graduate Assistantship Doctoral Practicum Post-Doctoral Fellowship In Crisis? Home Services Counseling Career Counseling Career Counseling What is Career Counseling? Career Counseling is aimed at helping you determine your strengths, values, and interests in order to make choices regarding your career or major. It is a collaborative partnership between you and your counselor. You are an expert on yourself, while your counselor is an expert on career exploration and decision-making. Because every student’s career exploration needs are unique, the counselor will listen to you and ask questions to help determine: (1) the goals you want to achieve with the help of counseling and (2) a concrete plan for achieving those goals. This plan will serve as a flexible guide for the things you and your counselor will talk about, the career assessments you will take, and the career exploration tools you will acquire. Who can benefit from Career Counseling? A variety of students can benefit from career counseling. Are you having trouble choosing a major? Despite switching majors, are you still unable to find a major that “fits”? Do you want to figure out what career/occupation/job you should to go into after graduation? Do you want to know if graduate/professional school is right for you? Do you want to find tools to help you make a career-related decision? Do you want to take assessments/tests to help you better understand your interests, skills, values, and personality so you can choose a major or career? Do you want to create a career plan that will help you make informed, thoughtful career-related decisions? What will I discuss with my Career Counselor? The career counseling we provide is holistic, flexible, and confidential. You and your counselor will work together to determine what’s most important to discuss and do each session. Here are some of the topics that students frequently discuss with their counselors: Their interests, skills, values, personality attributes, cultural background, and past and present relationship experiences How each of the above factors influence what majors, careers, and graduate/professional training might be a good fit for their career aspirations How to understand and overcome difficulties in making career-related decisions How to interpret and learn from various career assessments they complete, including the Strong Interest Inventory (career interests), Myers-Briggs Type Indicator (personality), Career Lifeline, and various Card Sorts How to manage their parent’s expectations regarding majors and careers, and how to talk with their parents about these topics How to effectively cope with the stress, sadness, and anxiety associated with career exploration and other life circumstances Whether personal, family, or cultural factors may be affecting their career decision process, and how to sort through these difficult issues What career service will be the most helpful for me? Career Exploration Services (CES) offers a variety of services that can assist you in developing your personal career plan, including career coaching, a career library, the University Studies 104: Personal Career Development course, and the Major Fair. Check out the CES website to learn more! If you’re deciding between Career Coaching and Individual Career Counseling, stop in to CES and talk to a Career Coach about your situation. They can help you decide which option will be most helpful to you. CES is open Monday through Friday, between 8am and 5pm. It is located on the second floor of the Student Services Building, room 2030. If you are looking for assistance with developing your resume, interviewing, networking, or finding an internship or job, please visit the Career Services Office within your college. Student Counseling Services Student Counseling Services Iowa State University 2505 Union Drive, 3rd Floor Ames, IA 50011 515-294-5056 phone 515-294-5205 fax Social Media Directory Copyright © 1995- Iowa State University of Science and Technology All rights reserved. Non-discrimination Policy Privacy Policy Digital Access & Accessibility Loading...