Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. Office of Nationally Competitive Awards NCA right arrow down arrow About NCA right arrow down arrow Programs and Events Understanding Fellowships Frequently Asked Questions Contact Us News Awards right arrow down arrow Core Awards right arrow down arrow Fulbright U.S. Student Program Gaither Junior Fellows Program right arrow down arrow Gaither Info Session Goldwater Scholarship right arrow down arrow Goldwater Info Session Marshall Scholarship right arrow down arrow UK Awards Info Sessions Mitchell Scholarship right arrow down arrow UK Awards Info Sessions Rhodes Scholarship right arrow down arrow UK Awards Info Sessions Truman Scholarship right arrow down arrow Truman Info Session Udall Scholarship right arrow down arrow Udall Info Session Priority Awards right arrow down arrow Boren Awards right arrow down arrow Boren Info Session Critical Language Scholarship right arrow down arrow CLS Info Session Fulbright UK Summer Institutes right arrow down arrow Fulbright UKSI Session Gates Cambridge Scholarship right arrow down arrow UK Awards Info Sessions Knight-Hennessy Scholarship National Science Foundation Graduate Research Fellowship Paul & Daisy Soros Fellowships for New Americans Schwarzman Scholarship right arrow down arrow Schwarzman Scholarship Info Session Other Awards right arrow down arrow International Studies International Students Underrepresented and Minority Students Specific Interests or Disciplines Applying right arrow down arrow Deciding to Apply Preparing Your Application right arrow down arrow Recommendation Letters Essay Strategies Developing as a Candidate The Leadership Essay Student Spotlight right arrow down arrow 2021–22 Award Winners 2020–21 Award Winners 2019–20 Award Winners 2018–19 Award Winners NCA Ambassadors Fulbright@UC right arrow down arrow Info Session Recordings UC Fulbright Winners Fulbright Boot Camp Aspire Scholars For Faculty Home » Campus Life » Office of Nationally Competitive Awards » Student Spotlight » Profiles » Daniel Posmik Set Navigation title in component 2021–22 Award Winners 2020–21 Award Winners 2019–20 Award Winners 2018–19 Award Winners Daniel Posmik Daniel Posmik is pursuing a Bachelor of Business Administration in Business Economics and a Bachelor of Science in Business Analytics with a minor in Mathematics. From the community to the regulatory level, he wants his work to define the intersection of data science and social impact. Daniel is on a mission to leverage data in his fight against systemic inequality. Daniel is the founder of Neo - the first pro-bono, student-led analytics accelerator for minority-owned small businesses. Overseeing an organization of over 40 people, he has become an expert in the small business applications of data analytics. In 2020/2021, Neo members logged 2,480h community service hours collectively. To date, they have served 11 Black-owned small businesses across the United States. Currently, they are working towards establishing a non-profit organization to serve nationally. Upon graduation, Daniel wants to take his passion for data science and impact to the regulatory level. As an economic researcher, his goal is to develop climate policy that is not only effective but also equitable. Having published his first paper in May, Daniel gained in-depth experience in experimental design and time series econometrics. In the future, he is curious to explore big data applications in climate policy research. He is particularly interested in learning how Machine Learning techniques can be leveraged. As a polyglot and culture aficionado, he aspires to address the need for global climate policy. Daniel is a Kautz-Uible Economics Fellow, a University Honors student, a Circle of Excellence Business Honors student, and a Global Outreach Scholar. Awards 2021–22- Finalist, Schwarzman Scholarship Office of Nationally Competitive Awards 707A Swift Hall 513-556-1003 nca@uc.edu UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati Office of Nationally Competitive Awards 707A Swift Hall 513-556-1003 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top