Skip to main content Skip to main content Prospective Students Current Students Alumni Events Skip to main content Apply Apply Give Give Schedule a Visit SMU Tour Follow Us Follow Us Facebook Follow Us Instagram Follow Us Twitter Follow Us YouTube Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. Navigate Search Skip to main content Philosophy Why Study Here? Why Study Here? Philosophy Brochure Testimonials Undergraduate Programs Undergraduate Programs Major Minors Current Course Offerings Optional Areas of Emphasis Student Awards Philosophy Club Resources People Research About About Contact Us Speaker Series Alumni Connection Give ☰ Department of Philosophy Academics Departments Philosophy Faculty Directory Majors/Minors Why Study Philosophy? Alumni Connection Welcome The Department of Philosophy at SMU excels in both research and teaching. Our faculty members are distinguished scholars whose research is regularly published in leading journals and presses. We are particularly strong in philosophy of mind, ethics, moral psychology, metaphysics, epistemology, and philosophy of science. The department offers a B.A. in philosophy and minors in philosophy and in ethics. Upper-level courses cover not only core areas of philosophy and important historical figures, but also specialized topics such as animal rights, philosophy of mind, and philosophy of law. Many of these courses are small and writing-intensive. Want to be a philosophy major? Philosophy Brochure Read More Philosophy Club Read More Upcoming Courses Read More Contact the Department of Philosophy Hyer Hall P.O. Box 750142 | Dallas, Texas | 75275 214-768-4306 News More news Philosophy Why Study Here? Undergraduate Programs People Research About Give Apply Visit Academics Undergraduate Degrees Graduate Degrees Minors and Programs Research Centers and Institutes Connect Administrative Directory Department Directory Alumni Make a Gift Dedman College of Humanities & Sciences P.O. Box 750235 | Dallas, Texas | 75275-0233 214-768-2440 © Southern Methodist University Legal Disclosures facebook twitter youtube