Skip to main content Search form Search Information For Current Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Employers Contact Give About Search Menu Public Health Now News Events Publications Topics Student Voices Celebrating the Centennial Our Work to Address COVID-19 Columbia Public Health Magazine Academics Departments Degrees Course Directory Calendar Policy & Procedures Office of Education Research Featured Research Global Health Centers Programs Grants & Awards Corporate Partnerships People Our Faculty Current Students Friends and Supporters Partners Alumni Become a Student Meet Our Faculty Life & Community Degree Finder How to Apply Career Services More Information Master of Public Health Degree Programs Certificate Program Core Curriculum Search You are here Home Public Health Now Publications Columbia Public Health Now Podcast Winter Storm Update/Impacts to Campus and Services Last Updated 12:50pm Fri May 6 See Coronavirus Updates for information on campus protocols. Columbia Public Health Now Podcast Environmental Health Sciences Health Policy & Management Sociomedical Sciences Transmission Columbia Public Health Columbia Public Health Now Podcast Environmental Health Sciences Health Policy & Management Sociomedical Sciences Transmission Columbia Public Health Columbia Public Health Now Podcast During the early months of COVID-19 in New York City, we produced the first season of the Columbia Public Health Now podcast. Season one explored the global spread of COVID-19 and its influence on all aspects of society. Several faculty joined us to share their thoughts on the virus' impacts to individuals and communities both local and global. Season 1 Listen here, on SoundCloud, Spotify, iTunes, Breaker, Google Podcasts, RadioPublic, and more platforms to come. EPISODE 10: BATS, LABS, AND RUMORED ORIGINS May 18, 2020 As we conclude the first season, we reflect on the original question we asked in Episode 1: So, how did we get here? Epidemiologist Dr. Simon Anthony discusses rumored origins of COVID-19, the risks of virus spillovers from wildlife to our lives, and what we can learn from the military about preparing for pandemics. Episode 10 Transcript EPISODE 9: The Dangerous Stories We Tell April 29, 2020 Infectious disease ecologist, Dr. Michaela Martinez, challenges some of the news coverage around COVID-19, commenting on what is known, and not known, about the seasonality of the virus; potential immunity for survivors; and the limits of comparing COVID-19 to the 1918 epidemic. Episode 9 Transcript EPISODE 8: Underestimating Mother Nature April 22, 2020 Plant physiologist, Dr. Lewis Ziska, explains the intersection of climate change, food systems, and public health - and their relationship to COVID-19. Episode 8 Transcript EPISODE 7: The Consequences of Piecemeal Responses April 13, 2020 Dr. Jeffrey Shaman discusses his team's projections on the impact of social distancing and other strategies in limiting the spread of coronavirus infections. The models offer insights that are informing policy decisions and could point the way to a sound—and safe—COVID-19 exit-strategy. Episode 7 Transcript EPISODE 6: Us vs. them: the danger of blame April 8, 2020 Dr. Robert Fullilove explores the historical intersection of stigma, blame and pandemics and the public health importance of staying rationally engaged even during this time of information overload. Episode 6 Transcript EPISODE 5: The invisible toll of the PANDEMIC April 1, 2020 Dr. Diana Hernandez, a keen observer of the burden of health inequity on the poor and working class, explores how those communities are particularly impacted by the pandemic. Episode 5 Transcript EPISODE 4: HEALTH SYSTEMS (DYS)FUNCTION March 24, 2020 Dr. Wafaa El-Sadr, a veteran of the HIV, tuberculosis and Ebola epidemics of the past decades, provides some perspective on the lessons learned from previous outbreaks and how knowledge is our greatest defense. Episode 4 Transcript EPISODE 3: NEXT MOVES, ACCORDING TO SCIENCE March 19, 2020 Famed “virus hunter” Dr. W. Ian Lipkin answers your questions about what a virus is, where did COVID-19 come from, and what’s on the horizon for potential treatments. Episode 3 Transcript EPISODE 2: FLATTENING THE CURVE? March 17, 2020 Dr. Stephen Morse, professor of epidemiology and director of the Infectious Disease Epidemiology Certificate Program, discusses approaches to control the spread of COVID-19 and contain the virus. Episode 2 Transcript EPISODE 1: SO, HOW DID WE GET HERE? March 13, 2020 Dr. Stephen Morse professor of epidemiology and director of the Infectious Disease Epidemiology Certificate Program is a globally recognized infectious disease expert who walks us through what we know so far about the origin of COVID-19. Episode 1 Transcript Our Host Maria Andriella O’Brien is deputy chief of staff at Columbia Mailman's School of Public Health. She received both her MBA and MPH in Epidemiology from Columbia University. Care to share your comments and questions? Contact the Columbia Public Health Now podcast team at publichealthnow@cumc.columbia.edu. Interested in reading more about COVID-19? Read the latest news, articles, and hear more from our public health experts on our News page. More to Explore Friday 03June COVID-19: From Causes to ConsequencesMay 27 2022 Bench-to-Bedside: A Dream or Reality?Apr 13 2022 Historically Redlined Neighborhoods Burdened by Excess Oil and Gas WellsApr 13 2022 Dean Linda P. Fried Awarded Kober Medal for Scientific and Mentorship AchievementsApr 11 2022 Columnbia Mailman Connect with Us Public Health Now News Events Publications Topics Student Voices Academics Departments Degrees Course Directory Calendar Policy & Procedures Office of Education Research Featured Research Global Health Centers Programs Grants & Awards Corporate Partnerships People Our Faculty Current Students Friends and Supporters Partners Alumni Become a Student Meet Our Faculty Life & Community Degree Finder How to Apply Career Services More Information Columbia University Mailman School of Public Health | 722 West 168th St. NY, NY 10032 Site Map Privacy Columbia University Irving Medical Center Copyright © Columbia University 2019 Information For Current Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Employers