Return to Content Home Interviews Traditions Timeline About Us Georgia Tech Alumni Home Georgia Tech Alumni Home Home Interviews Traditions Timeline About Us Menu Interviews Traditions Home Traditions Freshman Cake Race The first Cake Race was held in 1911 and was open to all as a cross-country run. Read More Golden Tornadoes A nickname attached to the Georgia Tech football team sometime around 1915. Read More George C. Griffin Pi Mile Race The inaugural George C. Griffin Race was run on May 26, 1973. Read More Homecoming First one on June 7, 1920, was sponsored by the Georgia Tech Alumni Association to celebrate its reorganization. Read More IFC Dances Annual spring dance sponsored by the Greek Council with all fraternities participating. Read More Pajama Parades Upperclassmen issued orders to freshman RATS to meet at designated location wearing pajama bottoms and a leather belt and bring a roll of toilet paper. Read More Shirt Tail Parades A parade formed by students grabbing the shirt of the man in front of them and forming a conga line that marched up North Avenue, up and down Peachtree Street and in and out of theaters and other places of business along the way. Read More RAT Caps Freshmen were required to wear them every day and everywhere on the campus until the freshman football team beat the Georgia freshman team on Thanksgiving. If Tech lost the game, the caps were worn until the end of the school year. Read More Ramblin’ Wreck Donated to Georgia Tech in 1961 by Capt. Ted Johnson, a retired pilot who had purchased and restored the car for his son. Read More Tech Tower First structure erected on the Tech Campus. Read More The Varsity Founded by Tech alumnus Frank Gordy, Class of 1929, in 1928. Read More The Whistle Meant to mimic the industrial whistles of the times. It called the students to their shop classes. Read More White and Gold First recorded use was in a baseball game against Auburn in 1891. Read More The Yellow Jacket Tech teams often wore yellow jerseys back in the day because there was no gold fabric available. Read More Ramblin' Wreck Parade The Wreck Parade has occurred every year since 1932 with the exception of 1942 and 1943 due to gas shortages during World War II. Read More 190 North Avenue NW Atlanta, GA 30313 livinghistory@gatech.edu Login Back to Top