OU Homepage Search OU The University of Oklahoma Skip Navigation Visit Campus search On-Campus Experiences The best way to experience The University of Oklahoma is to visit our beautiful campus in Norman, Oklahoma. During your visit, you will head out for an hour and a half walking tour with one of our distinguished OU student tour guides to learn about the incredible academic programs and involvement opportunities at OU. You will be able to see our state-of-the-art facilities, historic buildings, a residence hall room, and a few student hubs that showcase the OU community and spirit. Register for a campus visit today! Schedule Campus Visit Tour Dates & Times Summer 2022: Monday - Friday, May 16 - July 29 at 9 a.m. CT Select Saturdays at 9:00 a.m. CT Fall 2022: Dates and registration will be available in July Schedule Campus Visit Honors Personalized Visits Honors Personalized Visits are offered Mondays, Wednesdays, and Fridays. Students must have a test score of 28 or higher ACT Composite Score or a 1300 or higher SAT total score and a 3.0 unweighted GPA to register for an Honors Student Personalized Visit. Honors Personalized Visits are a great way to dive a little deeper into the University of Oklahoma, experience campus life, and meet with faculty and staff. You will receive a campus tour led by an Honors College Ambassador, learn more about the Honors College experience at OU, and connect with the desired programs of your choice. Detailed information about your visit is emailed to you in advance of your visit. Space is limited for each visit day and requests are preferred two-weeks in advance. To Register Campus Housing Tours General Campus Tour (Couch Center and Cross Village) Monday – Friday, 9 AM & 2 PM CT, Select Saturdays 9:30 AM Note: The general campus tour will include Cross Village starting January 18. The regularly scheduled general campus tours will include a walk-through of the suite-style towers showroom located in Couch Center and the apartment-style options in Cross Village. Learn more about our housing options, floorplans, and rate information. Residential Colleges Tour To schedule a private tour of the residential colleges or if your schedule does not allow you to attend the regularly scheduled campus tour (visiting Couch Center and Cross Village), please make an appointment with OU Housing and Residence Life. Note: After choosing your preferred date and time, please select Housing and Residence Life Staff from the Select Staff dropdown menu. Headington Hall Tour Monday - Friday, 3:00 PM CT space is limited If you would like to register for a Headington Hall tour on an available day at 3:00 PM CT, email tour@ou.edu with your student name and preferred tour date option. If you would like to inquire about other tour options and availability apart from Monday-Friday at 3:00 PM CT, email headingtonhall@ou.edu. Academic Tours Many of our academic colleges offer additional information sessions, which provide a more in-depth look at specific programs of interest. These are a great opportunity to tour major-specific facilities and meet staff and faculty members from your intended academic college. Academic programs are offering many virtual and on-campus options — click here to see available academic sessions. Campus Safety The safety of our guests, students, and campus community is of the utmost importance to our team. We may make updates regarding safety expectations to campus visits at any time as conditions and circumstances in the community evolve. For more information on OU’s current response to COVID-19 and regular updates, visit ou.edu/together. Minors on Campus Please read and review the OU Minors on Campus policies and forms. Review Visitor Guidelines for Bringing Minors to the University. What to Expect Your campus tour experience will last approximately 2.5 hours. Once you arrive on campus, an OU staff member will give a brief admissions presentation followed by a walking tour (3 miles) of campus given by an OU student tour guide. Comfy shoes are encouraged! Please also check the weather for Norman, Oklahoma, ahead of your visit. Don't worry about a school excuse note - it will be included in an email after the tour. Check out our frequently asked questions page for more information. Morning Tour: 9:00 a.m. - 11:30 a.m. CT Afternoon Tour: 2:00 p.m. - 4:30 p.m. CT Scheduling Your Campus Tour & Tour Capacity We will do our best to accommodate all guests, however, our campus tours may reach capacity. We encourage you to schedule your tour as soon possible to ensure you have a spot that fits your schedule. Our campus tours will have a strict capacity limit and often fill a few weeks in advance. If you need assistance, please contact us at (405) 325-2151 or tour@ou.edu. If there is no availability on the day that initially worked best for your schedule, we have a few alternative options for you to consider: Schedule a tour for a date that is available! You can come another time to campus when we are able to best accommodate you to ensure you have the most quality experience. Register for an available OU campus tour here. Try a virtual guided tour! The same experience – with no travel and less walking! Our virtual guided campus tours are led LIVE by current OU student tour guides and only last about one hour. Register for a virtual student guided tour here. Attend a virtual information session! Learn more about OU by connecting with OU Admissions staff members or by registering for a specific academic college virtual information session to get more in-depth information about your academic areas of interest. Register for a virtual information session here. Still planning to be in Norman, OK? If you will still be on-campus on the day you would like to tour, you can stop by our Visitor’s Center between 8 AM – 5 PM, Monday-Friday to ask questions and receive OU information. You can also grab a campus map and self-guided tour handout to explore campus at your own pace! Even if you show up outside of office hours, you can grab these materials in a black box outside the front of the OU Visitor’s Center – Jacobson Hall. Come to an OU event! There are many events planned throughout the year that provide great programming and other ways to connect with and learn about OU. Look at our events calendar and register for open events here. Self-Guided Tours On-Campus If you are unable to attend a scheduled campus tour, feel free to explore campus on your own. You can stop by the Visitor's Center to pick up a self-guided tour brochure, or view this one on your mobile device. Written with a general overview and historical points of interest, it allows you to enjoy our "campus beautiful by day and night" at your own pace and convenience. Self-Guided Tour (PDF) | Campus Map (PDF) In-Person Campus Experience One of the best ways to experience the Sooner tradition and to learn about all that OU offers is to visit our beautiful campus in Norman, Oklahoma. During your visit, you will hear about OU from staff, tour our campus with a current OU student, see our state-of-the-art facilities, and experience the OU community and spirit. Schedule Campus Visit Group Tours Graduate Tours K-12th Grade Experiences The full walking tour of campus is led by a current OU student, so you'll get to experience the university from an insider's perspective. You can even personalize your visit by adding an academic information session! You'll visit the academic college you're interested in and meet faculty, ask questions, and tour the facilities. Virtual Campus Experiences Live Student Guided Virtual Tour Experience a live virtual campus tour led by one of our student tour guides. Choose a time that works for you to experience OU’s campus, spirit, and community from the comfort of wherever you are! Live Student Guided Virtual Tour Self-Guided Virtual Tour Instantly tour many locations on OU's campus including the Great Reading Room at Bizzel Memorial Library, tour a Residence Hall room, our many facilities and beautiful South Oval to name a few. Self-Guided Virtual Tour Admissions & Recruitment 550 Parrington Oval Norman, OK 73019 (405) 325-2151 Accessibility Sustainability HIPAA OU Job Search Policies Legal Notices Copyright Resources and Offices OU Report It! Updated 4/20/2022 by Admissions & Recruitment: admissions@ou.edu