Skip to main content Skip to primary site menu Skip to primary site search Google Tag Manager Zaslavsky Lab Show/Hide People Publications Research Projects Welcome Welcome to the Laboratory of Prof. Alex Zaslavsky in the Brown School of Engineering, working on semiconductor device physics and engineering. As silicon technology marches on towards ultimately scaled devices, we are pursuing alternative technologies based on either different physical mechanisms (such as tunneling or hot-electron effects), different materials (Ge, III-V materials, amorphous conducting oxides), and different geometries (nanowires, quantum dots, ultrathin SOI) that could provide added functionality. Current projects include: Tunneling and band-modulation devices in SOI (collaboration with INPG/Minatec and Fudan University) Quantum dot photodetectors (with Pacifici lab at Brown and NIST) Amorphous indium-zinc-oxide and copper-iodide devices (with Paine lab at Brown) Nitride hot electron and tunneling transistors (with MIT Lincoln Laboratory) Cryo-CMOS and transistor-based biosensors (with NIST) In the past our group worked in other areas, including: Noise-immune ultimate CMOS design (with Bahar lab then at Brown) Si and SiGe nanowire tunneling transistors (collaboration with LANL) Carbon nanotube devices (with Xu lab at Brown) Flexible metal interconnects (with Crawford lab then at Brown) Resonant tunneling in 2DEG and Si/Ge (with IBM Yorktown and Goldman lab at Stony Brook) Students graduating from the Zaslavsky laboratory -- our most significant product by far -- are well-equipped for future semiconductor R&D by acquiring a full skill set, from device fabrication to characterization and modeling. They have moved on to a range of semiconductor companies (from Micron to Applied Materials, to GlobalFoundries, to Synopsys), government labs (from NIST to CNRS to Paul Scherrer Institute), and major industrial companies (EMC and Apple). Latest news and publication highlights Elahe Rezaei completes her post-doc and moves to Qualcomm Technologies in San Diego (Dec. 2019). Sue Shi graduates with ScM in Electrical Engineering (May 2021). A 2021 APL paper on capacitorless one-transistor cryomemory was chosen as an AIP Scilight. Explore Brown University Search Brown Show/Hide Learn More About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life Find A to Z Index People Directory Information for Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Top Destinations Global Brown Watson Institute Graduate School Alpert Medical School School of Public Health School of Engineering School of Engineering School of Engineering Brown University 182 Hope St. Providence, RI 02912 Phone: 401-863-1406 Fax: 401-863-9107 Email [email protected] Giving to Brown Brown University Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-1000 Maps & Directions / Contact Us / Accessibility © 2022 Brown University Connect: [email protected] Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram iTunes U LinkedIn SnapChat