Skip to main content Navigation Academics Admissions Research Locations Student Life Alumni & Giving Athletics Apply Now Healthcare Health Education is in Our DNA Skip to Section Revolutionizing the Healthcare Industry As a leader in advanced medical care, research and education, Orlando is gaining global recognition in a number of health services and treatments. With more than 20 million residents and the addition of 300,000 new people every year, Central Florida’s healthcare industry impacts people from their early years through adulthood and into retirement. As an educational leader in healthcare, UCF is committed to helping our community live life to the fullest — in medical and health professions within our colleges of Medicine, Nursing, and Health Professions and Sciences. Central Florida Healthcare In Southeast Orlando, Lake Nona is home to a number of groundbreaking medical innovations. Here, some of the nation’s leading hospitals, research institutions, and health and sciences companies, come together to improve healthcare in our community. These networks and collaborative efforts have led to medical advancements from treating drug-resistant breast cancer to battling Alzheimer’s disease and healing diabetic wounds to understanding how HIV damages the heart. New technologies and the way we approach patient care as a nation continues to transform the healthcare industry as we know it. Using a forward-looking approach to research and development, Florida is considered a pioneer in healthcare — an industry that makes up roughly 12 percent of all employment statewide and is expected to increase 25.6 percent through 2026. In turn, medical and wellness startups are making their way to the area, creating a need for a qualified workforce. Leading the Charge in Healthcare Innovation The UCF Academic Health Sciences Center is leading the way in healthcare education by bringing together various disciplines where faculty and students can focus on academics, research and practice. Home to the UCF Lake Nona Medical Center, the UCF Lake Nona Cancer Center, the College of Health Professions and Sciences, the College of Nursing, and UCF Health, the center is a model for medical education in the 21st century. From nursing and biomedical sciences to athletic training and physical therapy, students have an opportunity to fulfill a number of careers within healthcare. Our healthcare programs not only look at what students learn, but also how they learn. Through interprofessional education, students from each discipline collaborate together — gaining a better understanding of the various roles and scopes of practice within healthcare. This allows them to practice hands-on communication skills, develop mutual trust and respect, and provide quality patient care. For instance, physicians, nurses, pharmacists, therapists and social workers may work as part of a team to take what they have learned in the classroom and apply it to the real world. Upon completing their programs, each student will be prepared for the future of healthcare and serving the community through their work. 1st Medical school in U.S. to provide full scholarships to an entire class 98% Match rate of medical students in 2022 — significantly higher than the national rate of 93% 855+ Clinical site affiliations where students earn clinical experiences 96% First-time pass rate on national RN licensure and nurse practitioner exams Top 8% Physical therapy ranks in the top 8% of programs nationally on first-attempt licensure pass rates 440 Residents and fellows currently training with UCF and HCA to help alleviate the state’s physician shortage A New Era for Cancer Research Conquering cancer. The UCF Lake Nona Cancer Center and its partners from around the community are committed to making this goal a reality. Students and faculty researchers alike have focused their efforts on finding new and better treatments for cancer, including a novel therapeutic that slows pancreatic cancer, a therapy to target childhood cancer and an innovative software to fight cancer. Cancer patients from around Orlando and surrounding areas benefit from our one-stop research and treatment center. The center houses cancer researchers, clinical trials and treatment for patients. About half of the building is filled by UCF, while the other half is a clinical side for private entities including Sarah Cannon Research Institute and Provision Healthcare. One building, same team — from diagnosis to treatment to clinical research — all in the fight against cancer. Building a Healthier Community A little over a decade ago, the UCF College of Medicine opened its doors to train new doctors, advance medical research and improve the health and economic well-being of Central Florida. Later this year, the next phase of that mission will come to life. UCF Lake Nona Medical Center, a joint venture teaching hospital of UCF and HCA Healthcare, will bring many of the university’s health-related programs to one area and provide care to the surrounding community. The three-story hospital will span 204,079 square feet and start with 64 beds. As it grows, there is space and the ability to grow to 500 beds. Upon opening, the hospital will include a 20-bed Emergency Department open 24/7/365, four operating rooms, six delivery suites, cardiac catheterization lab, comprehensive imaging and laboratory services, a medical office building and a destination café. Serving as a clinical research center and learning environment for medical students, residents and fellows, the hospital will inspire scientific discovery. UCF Lake Nona Medical Center Groundbreaking Our students are scoring in the top quartile and above nationally in all measurements. We are gaining a national and worldwide reputation for innovation and academic excellence. The best part is we are just getting started.” — Deborah German, vice president for medical affairs and founding dean of the College of Medicine Alumni Spotlight: Blake Lynch ’14 Understanding first-hand the pressures nurses face, Blake Lynch ’14 wanted to provide comedic relief to those on the front lines. His first YouTube video, called “Scrub Romper,” went viral. Today “Nurse Blake” has 2.5 million followers and a national comedy tour — giving an inside look at the lives of healthcare workers both on and off the clock. He uses his voice to create change – leading a national effort for the FDA to end the lifetime ban on gay men donating blood, and formed an online community to support nurses. Helping care for those who care for us through one of the best forms of medicine: laughter. Learn how he’s changing the face of modern nursing. Caring for Our Community in Action Get a first-hand look at our healthcare impacts around Central Florida in the videos below — from the latest research initiatives to the newest technologies making a difference in the lives of those around us. Limbitless Solutions to Begin Clinical Trials UCF partner Limbitless Solutions is continuing their mission to empower children with limb differences through art-infused 3D-printed arms. UCF’s PedsAcademy at Nemours Children’s Hospital A first-of-its kind program, UCF’s PedsAcademy delivers high-tech and specialized schooling to chronically ill children while they’re hospitalized. UCF’s Lake Nona Medical Center Ground Breaking Learn about the new community-based teaching hospital that will ignite careers in medicine through its groundbreaking research and quality education. Healthcare News Check out more stories Colleges & Campus UCF Opens New Huntington’s Disease Multispecialty Clinic Located in Research Park, the new clinic offers multidisciplinary care from the College of Medicine, School of Social Work, and College of Health Professions and… Health & Medicine UCF-HCA Begin General Surgery Residency in Pensacola The program will accept three residents per year for a total of 15 accredited positions. Colleges & Campus Knights Do That: Where Medicine and Hospitality Intersect Michael Chiang ’20MS, the first UCF student to graduate with a master’s in hospitality and a M.D. in emergency medicine, shares how he plans to… Health & Medicine UCF Students Team up to Provide Care at Apopka Farmworkers Clinic For the first time since the pandemic, the clinic has returned to in-person services at full capacity. Cancer-fighting Technology Licensed to Major Pharma Company College of Medicine Associate Professor Alicja Copik’s nanoparticle technology is now in the hands of Sanofi. The pharma company plans to use the technology in hopes of finding new blood-cancer treatments. Learn more about the innovative treatment Healthcare Degrees As the healthcare industry continues to evolve and change over time, UCF healthcare programs keep students current with the latest techniques and curriculum — ensuring they are prepared from day one. Bachelor’s Degrees In-demand healthcare bachelor’s degrees Biomedical Sciences BS Health Sciences BS Nursing BSN Social Work BSW Health Informatics and Information Management BS Graduate Degrees Best master’s healthcare programs for advancement Medicine MD Nursing MSN Communication Sciences and Disorders MA Doctor of Physical Therapy Doctor of Nursing Practice DNP Alternative Degrees Various disciplines needed in the healthcare industry Mathematics BS Public Administration BA Psychology BS Advertising/Public Relations BA Legal Studies BS UCF Online Degrees Nationally recognized fully-online healthcare degrees Nursing BS Nursing MSN Health Services Administration BS Healthcare Informatics PSM Social Work MSW Rankings and Accreditations Top 20 Most Innovative University in the Nation U.S. News & World Report ranks UCF as one of the most innovative in its annual list of best colleges. #6 Top Sport and Exercise Science Program UCF’s Sport and Exercise Science doctoral program ranks 6th nationally by the National Academy of Kinesiology (NAK). #20 Best Online Nursing Programs U.S. News & World Report ranked UCF No. 20 in Best Online Graduate Nursing Programs in the nation. #46 Best Healthcare Management School UCF is ranked No. 46 in Best Healthcare Management school in the nation by U.S. News & World Report. View all of UCF’s Best Colleges Rankings Advancing Healthcare Through Collaboration The Academic Health Sciences Center brings together all of UCF’s strengths in research, clinical practice and community partnerships through its health-related academic programs. Our Health Sciences Campus, located in the heart of Medical City, is surrounded by top-notch hospitals, research facilities and other institutions. Our neighbors include Nemours Children’s Hospital, Orlando VA Medical Center, VA SimLEARN National Simulation Center, and Johnson and Johnson Human Performance Institute. We partner with hospitals, nonprofits and even college football to find better treatments and advance patient care. Through combining all of our health-related disciplines, we can stronger serve our mission: improve health for everyone. The newest UCF Lake Nona Medical Center and UCF Lake Nona Cancer Center were both made possible through our partnership with HCA Healthcare, a leading provider in healthcare services across 21 states and the United Kingdom. Our work together will build needed residency and fellowship programs to help address Florida’s physician shortage. Healthcare Companies Employing UCF Graduates AdventHealth Brooks Rehabilitation Central Florida Regional Hospital Heart of Florida Nemours Children’s Hospital Orange County Health Department Orange County Public Schools Orlando Health Osceola Regional Medical Center Select Medical Seminole County Public Schools United Cerebral Palsy Veterans Affairs Medical Center Institutes, Associations and Affiliations NCH Healthcare System Sarah Cannon Cancer Institute Legacy Pointe Provision Healthcare McCormick Research Institute Aphasia House HCA Healthcare Health Events Up Next Jun 1 11:00 am Big Red Bus - Donate Blood Today! Help us maintain a safe and ready blood supply for cancer patients, trauma patients or for when unexpected tragedies occur. The OneBlood bus will park on Memory Mall near the Veterans Memorial. Walk-ups welcomed, appointments appreciated! Looking Ahead Jun 1 7:00 pm Narcotics Anonymous Jun 3 1:00 pm Koru Basic Mindfulness Course Check out more events at UCF Areas of Excellence Innovation. Access. Impact. Our integrated approach to teaching and learning prepares students for the future of work and lifelong careers, making a difference in their communities and around the world. Aerospace and Defense Digital Arts and Entertainment Healthcare Hospitality and Tourism Modeling and Simulation Space Transportation Science University of Central Florida About UCF Contact Us Faculty Online Degrees Policies Privacy Notice Public Records Regulations Report a Concern UCF News 4000 Central Florida Blvd. Orlando, Florida, 32816 | 407.823.2000 © University of Central Florida