Prospective StudentsJSG CommunityAlumni & GivingRecruiters & Companies Facebook Twitter YouTube RSS News Feed About Mission & Vision Leadership Departments & Research Units Holland Family Student Center Offices Career Services Business Services Office Development and Alumni Relations Office of Communications Information Technology Services Office of Broader Impacts of Geoscience Research (BIGR) Contacts Directions & Maps Diversity and Inclusion Quick Facts History Faculty Through Time, In Memoriam Hall of Distinction JSG Workplace Issues Research Research Themes Climate & the Environment Energy Geosciences Marine Geosciences Planetary Sciences & Geobiology Solid Earth & Tectonic Processes Surface & Hydrologic Processes Research Disciplines Programs & Centers Laboratories & Facilities Industry Collaborations Find an Expert Education Undergraduate Advising Admissions Internal Transfers Degrees Offered Jackson Scholars Program Honors Program Financial Support Courses & Catalogs Field Experiences Why Geosciences? TNT 2021 Graduate Advising Admissions Degrees Offered EER Graduate Program Find a Supervisor Financial Support Courses & Catalogs External Grants & Scholarships Graduate Studies Committee Advising & Program Coordination Rankings Student Research Opportunities Student Organizations Writer-in-Residence Services Career Center Geology Library Holland Family Student Center People Distinguished Postdoctoral Fellows Program Find an Expert Scientist Profiles Employment Opportunities Visiting Assistant Professors of Practice in Chemical or Physical Hydrogeology Visiting Assistant Professors of Practice in Structural Geology/Tectonics JSG Community Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Faculty & Research Scientists Postdocs Staff Tuition Rebates for Undergraduates Faculty Through Time, In Memoriam Outreach For K-12 Students For K-12 Teachers For Everyone People News Media Releases Dean’s Desk Blogs Texas Geosciences Science Y’all In the News Scientist Profiles Newsletter 2015 Newsletter 2014 Newsletter PDF Archive Media Contacts Events DeFord Lecture Series Master’s Saturday Heads/Chairs on the Future of Undergraduate Geoscience Education Workshop Summit Materials, PowerPoints and Webcast Archive Background Reading Agenda Graduation Distinguished Lectures Association Meetings GSA 2014 SEG 2012 GSA 2012 2011 Meetings DGS Vehicle Reservation Calendar Submit an Event Skip to main content Close Search Bar Prospective StudentsJSG CommunityAlumni & GivingRecruiters & Companies SearchMake a Gift About Mission & Vision Leadership Departments & Units Offices Contacts Diversity and Inclusion JSG Workplace Issues Research Research Themes Programs & Centers Laboratories & Facilities Industry Collaborations Find an Expert Education Undergraduate Graduate Advising Rankings Student Research Opportunities Student Organizations Writer-in-Residence Services People JSG Directory Find an Expert Scientist Profiles Distinguished Postdoctoral Fellows Program Employment Opportunities Outreach For K-12 Students For K-12 Teachers For Everyone People News Media Releases Dean’s Office Blogs In the News Newsletter Media Contacts Events Events Calendar Lectures & Seminars Association Meetings Summits JSG Graduation Menu Home People JSG Community Jackson School of Geosciences Workplace... Jackson School of Geosciences Workplace Issues The faculty, Research Scientists, Students, and Staff of the Jackson School are dedicated to creating a positive, inclusive work environment that embraces diversity in all forms and rejects any form of hostile work place, discrimination, or bullying. This web page is set up to inform you of your options if you have encountered issues that create a negative work environment. Guidelines for workplace expectations for Faculty, Research Scientists, Students, and Staff of the Jackson School of Geosciences, UT Austin There are resources and people in the Jackson School, as well as across the Campus that are committed to helping resolve conflicts within our School and the University. If you have encountered a situation or person or group of people that have made your experience with us negative with respect to any of the workplace issues listed here, we hope you will inform us. Specific University contacts exist for various offenses and are identified in the description of Workplace Issues. In addition, one can contact the Undergraduate or Graduate Coordinator, the Graduate Advisor, Human Resources representative in each unit, the Department Chair, the Associate Dean of Academic Affairs, or the Dean depending on your affiliation (undergraduate or graduate student, faculty, research scientist, staff) and the type of complaint. The information linked below is meant to both provide context for your complaint (i.e. where does your situation fit in today’s “terminology”) and key university resources or contacts if they exist for that specific situation. Workplace Issues Some workplace issues that may arise between students, staff, research scientists, and faculty at the Jackson School should be reported to help improve JSG yet others must be reported to a University contact by UT Austin policy. Descriptions of these situations and resources within the University system are given for each type of issue. Bullying Bullying is unwanted, aggressive behavior that involves a real or perceived power imbalance. Either victim or witness of act can report bullying. Harassment Harassment is a type of discrimination that consists of a single intense and severe act, or of multiple persistent or pervasive acts, which are unwanted, unwelcome, demeaning, abusive, or offensive and based upon the victim’s inclusion in a protected category such race, color, religion, national origin, age, disability, citizenship, veteran status, sexual orientation, gender identity or gender expression. (from UT policy; Handbook of Operating Procedures, 3-3020). Any person who believes he/she has been subject to harassment, as defined above, should report this to any University official, administrator or supervisor. Students are encouraged to contact the Office of the Dean of Students, and employees to contact the Office for Inclusion and Equity (OIE). Every supervisor, administrator and University official is responsible for promptly reporting incidents that come to their attention to either the Office of the Dean of Students or the Office for Inclusion and Equity. Sexual Harassment Sexual Harassment is unwelcome conduct of a sexual nature that can occur when: the submission to unwelcome physical conduct of a sexual nature, or to unwelcome requests for sexual favors or other verbal conduct of a sexual nature, is made as an implicit or explicit term or condition of employment or education; the submission to or rejection of unwelcome physical conduct of a sexual nature, or unwelcome requests for sexual favors or other verbal conduct of a sexual nature, is used as a basis for academic or employment decisions or evaluations; unwelcome physical acts of a sexual nature, or unwelcome requests for sexual favors or other verbal conduct of a sexual nature, that have the effect of creating an objectively hostile environment that substantially interferes with employment or education on the basis of sex; or such conduct is intentionally directed towards a specific individual and has the purpose or effect of unreasonably interfering with that individual’s education, employment, or participation in University activities, or creating an intimidating, hostile, or offensive atmosphere. Sexual harassment may include: Sexual violence, as defined under the Texas Penal Code, which includes rape, sexual assault, sexual battery, and sexual coercion. Physical conduct that, depending on the totality of the circumstances present, may include unwelcome intentional touching; or deliberate physical interference with or restriction of movement. Verbal conduct, including oral, written, or symbolic expression. All sexual harassment complaints should be reported to the Title IX office directly. If reported to a responsible employee, they are required to report it to the Title IX office. From the UT Title IX website: Individuals may also report incidents of sex discrimination, sexual harassment (including sexual violence) or sexual misconduct online or to any university Responsible Employee who is then required to promptly notify any of the above Title IX Coordinators of the reported incident. Who should report incidents – A Responsible Employee is a University employee who has the authority to take action to redress an alleged violation of this policy who has been given the duty of reporting such allegations to the University Title IX Coordinator or designee, or an employee whom an individual could reasonably believe has this authority or duty. Responsible Employees are required to promptly report incidents of prohibited conduct. Detailed information of this policy can be found in the General Information Catalog – Appendix D or the Handbook of Operating Procedures, 3-3031. For the JSG, Responsible Employees include administrators, academic advisors, faculty, including professors, adjuncts, lecturers, assistant instructors, teaching assistants, graduate research assistants and all supervisory staff. What should be reported All relevant information should be reported, including the names of the individuals involved, any witnesses, and any other relevant information, including the date, time, and specific location of the alleged incident. A report must be made as soon as possible after an individual discloses the incident. Reports of these incidents made by JSG Responsible Employees should also be provided to the Dean of the Jackson School. Discrimination Discrimination is conduct directed at a specific individual or group of identifiable individuals that subjects the individual or group to treatment that adversely affects their employment or education because of their race, color, religion, national origin, age, disability, citizenship, veteran status, sexual orientation, gender identity or gender expression. (Handbook of Operating Procedures, 3-3031) Any person who believes he/she has been subject discrimination, as defined above, should report this to any University official, administrator of supervisor. Students are encouraged to contact the Office of the Dean of Students, and employees to the Office for Inclusion and Equity. Every supervisor, administrator and University official is responsible for promptly reporting incidents that come to their attention to either the Office of the Dean of Students or the Office for Inclusion and Equity. Hostile Workplace or Work Environment A hostile environment occurs when: A co-worker or supervisor discriminates against or harasses a person because of his/her inclusion in a protected class such as a person’s race, color, religion, national origin, age, disability, citizenship, veteran status, sexual orientation, gender identity or gender expression. This harassment is pervasive, lasting over time, and not limited to an off-color remark or two that a coworker found annoying. The behavior is severe. Not only is it pervasive over time, but the hostility has disrupted the employee’s ability to do his/her job. (Handbook of Operating Procedures 3-3020) The Jackson School seeks to develop a work setting that fosters inclusion and promotes a welcoming workplace. Any situation that creates a hostile work environment such as described above should be reported promptly and addressed by meeting with one’s supervisor, meeting with one of the listed Contacts or by directing issues to the Dean of Students or the Associate Vice President for Inclusion and Equity. Interpersonal Violence For interpersonal violence there are several University resources and options available. UT Police Call 512-471-4441 or 911 if emergency. BCAL Submit your concerns online or call 512-232-5050, 24 hours a day. Student Emergency Services Student Emergency Services addresses concerns regarding students who have been impacted by interpersonal violence or have had a friend or family member impacted. This group is set up to listen to and recommend courses of action for those students who are impacted by violence. Trained staff can listen and recommend a course of action and also help seek emergency services and identify housing etc. Interpersonal Violence Peer Support Hours: Monday-Thursday, 12pm-8pm and Friday, 12pm-4pm Location: Student Services Building, Ground Floor, Room G1.408 Confidential Advocates Hours: Monday-Friday, 9am-4pm Location: Student Emergency Services, SSB 4.104 and Title IX University Compliance Services, UTA 2.507 Dean of Students Phone number: (512) 471-5017 Employee Assistance Program Faculty-Student Advisee Relationship Issues Student has problems with supervisor Supervisor has problems with student See Guidelines for workplace expectations document for discussion of supervisor/student expectations and frequently asked questions. Academic Integrity A fundamental principle for any educational institution, academic integrity is highly valued and seriously regarded at The University of Texas at Austin. More specifically, faculty, research supervisors and students are expected to maintain absolute integrity and a high standard of individual honor in scholastic work and research undertaken at the University. This is a very basic expectation that is further reinforced by the University’s Honor Code. For students, at a minimum, you should complete any assignments, exams, and other scholastic endeavors with the utmost honesty, which requires you to: acknowledge the contributions of other sources to your scholastic efforts; complete your assignments independently unless expressly authorized to seek or obtain assistance in preparing them; follow instructions for assignments and exams, and observe the standards of your academic discipline; and avoid engaging in any form of academic dishonesty on behalf of yourself or another student. For faculty, research scientists, and staff, early communication and establishing a clear set of expectations and guidelines on authorship, IP, use of data and other matters is key to the successful navigation of what is a persistent and critical challenge for all academic units within the Jackson School, the University of Texas, and across the academic and research landscape of the US and the world. Such conflicts dealing with academic dishonesty in the form of misconduct in science and other scholarly research, including plagiarism, are handled by the Research Integrity officer within the VP Research office. Key Contacts Contacts within Jackson School of Geosciences and University of Texas at Austin For most concerns or complaints, the first step is usually internal to JSG, but many University-wide resources are available. Below are the general contacts for each type of individual, followed by specific ones for certain types of complaints. In all cases, complaints can be made internally to the appropriate Jackson School contact or to a University contact. However, sexual harassment, any form of discrimination (including harassment) and interpersonal violence complaints must be reported by policy to the appropriate University contact. Please note: if you are worried about any kind of behavior towards you or anyone else, you may contact BCAL or call 512-232-5050, 24 hours a day. Undergraduate Students JSG level: Undergraduate Advisor (Jessica Bradford), Department Chair (Daniel Stockli), Associate Dean for Academic Affairs (Chris Bell). University level: Dean of Students, Omsbuds, UT Counseling and Mental Health Center. Note: All three university level offices offer confidential services. Graduate Students JSG level: Graduate Coordinator (Philip Guerrero), Graduate Advisor/GSC Chair (Brian Horton), Department Chair (Daniel Stockli), Associate Dean for Academic Affairs (Chris Bell). University level: Dean of Students, Omsbuds, UT Counseling and Mental Health Center. Note: All three university level offices offer confidential services. Faculty JSG level: HR representative (Monica Reed); Department Chair (Daniel Stockli), Dean (Claudia Mora). University level: Omsbuds, Employee Assistance Program, Office for Inclusion and Equity. Note: The Omsbuds and Employee Assistance Program offer confidential services. Research Scientists & Staff JSG level: HR representative for the Unit (Monica Reed for DGS and the Dean’s Office, Scott Tinker for the Bureau of Economic Geology, or Damien Saffer for the Institute for Geophysics); Unit Leader (Scott Tinker, BEG; Damien Saffer, UTIG; Daniel Stockli, DGS); Dean (Claudia Mora). University level: Omsbuds, Employee Assistance Program, Office for Inclusion and Equity. Note: The Omsbuds and Employee Assistance Program offer confidential services. Required University Reporting Sexual Harassment: Title IX office.Discrimination: Office of Equity and Inclusion or Office of Dean of Students. Interpersonal Violence (including stalking): UT Police Department: 512-471-4441 or 911 if emergency; Employee Assistance Program; Student Emergency Services; BCAL or call 512-232-5050, 24 hours a day. People Distinguished Postdoctoral Fellows Program Find an Expert Scientist Profiles Employment Opportunities JSG Community Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Faculty & Research Scientists Postdocs Staff Jackson School of Geosciences Workplace Issues Guidelines for Faculty, Research Scientists, Students, and Staff of the Jackson School of Geosciences, UT Austin Tuition Rebates for Undergraduates Faculty Through Time, In Memoriam Mailing Address Jackson School of Geosciences 2305 Speedway Stop C1160 Austin, TX 78712-1692 Phone (512) 471-6048 Support JSG Departments & Units Department of Geological Sciences Bureau of Economic Geology Institute for Geophysics Administration & Offices College Leadership Career Services Business Services Development and Alumni Relations Office of Communications Information Technology Office Helpful Links UT Austin UT Direct Emergency Information IT Help JSG Directory JSG Profiles Contact Us Facebook Twitter YouTube RSS News Feed © 2022 Jackson School of Geosciences, The University of Texas at Austin Web Privacy | Web Accessibility Policy | Adobe Reader