Skip to main content iastate.edu Index A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z Directory Maps Safety Sign Ons Iowa State University University Library Menu Toggle Search Toggle Search Index Hours My Library Card Give Research & Collections Find Books & Media (Quick Search) Article Indexes & Databases e-Books e-Journals - A-Z list Specific Article by Citation or DOI Course Reserves Movies and TV Streaming Video Collections WorldCat (Open Access) Catalogs of Other Libraries Iowa State Collections DataShare: ISU's Data Repository Digital Collections Digital Initiatives Digital Press Digital Repository @ Iowa State University Special Collections and University Archives Research Help Research and Course Guides Quick Search Tips Find Articles Find Dissertations and Theses Find Other Types of Material Find Audiovisual Materials Find Books Find Census Data Find Government Documents Find Images Find Legal Research Find Magazines, Journals Find Manuscripts and Archives Find Maps Find Microforms Find Newspapers and News Find Standards Cite Sources Cite Sources Overview Endnote Ask Us! Find Your Librarian Collections Areas Leisure Collection Media Center Periodical Room Reference Materials Call Numbers in Parks Library Library Storage Building Design Reading Room Design Reading Room Overview About the Design Reading Room Course Reserves - Design Reading Room Design Reading Room Staff Veterinary Medicine Library Restricted Building Access About the Vet Med Library Veterinary Medicine Library Staff Borrowing Main Desk Check Out and Return Request Books and More Pick From Shelf Service Recall or Hold an Item Renew an Item Interlibrary Loan & Document Delivery (ILL/DD) ILL/DD Overview ILL/DD Account Login Interlibrary Loan FAQ Libraries Requesting ISU Materials Unaffiliated User Terms and Conditions Missing Items Loan Periods Fines (overdue/lost items) Book a Media Item for Classroom Use Who May Borrow? Your Library Card Help & Services Accessibility Services Accessibility Services Overview Services & Equipment Available Physical Access to Parks Library Building and Collections Accessibility Services at Branch Libraries For You Services for Students Faculty & Instructors Distance Learners International Nest Alumni & Visitors Assistance Lost & Found Find Your Librarian Ask a Librarian How Do I ... Library FAQ Access E-Resources Access My Library Card Get Something That's Not Available Find Articles Find Dissertations and Theses Find Other Types of Materials Cite Sources Quick Search Tips Teaching & Class Support Library Instruction Overview Library 160 Course-related Instruction Course Reserves Research and Course Guides Workshops Copyright Information Open Scholarship Services Binding theses Solution Center Systems Status Spaces & Computers Study Rooms Group Study Rooms Research Study Rooms Quiet Areas Reserve a Library Space Parks Library spaces Floor & Tier Maps Accessible and Sensory Friendly Spaces Learning Connections Center Bookends Café International Nest Mindfulness Room Where to find ... Room Number Listings Physical Access to Parks Library Building and Collections Diaper changing stations and lactation room Restrooms Library Classroom Use Computers & Technology Assistive Technology Computers and Computer Labs Interactive Displays for Group Work Laptop & Equipment Checkout Group Equipment Loans Outlets and Wireless Printing, Copying, Scanning Other Equipment Parks Libro NVivo Software Access Design Reading Room Veterinary Medicine Library Ask Us! Interlibrary Loan Frequently Asked Questions What Can Be Borrowed + The Interlibrary Loan unit (ILL) at Iowa State University can borrow a wide variety of materials, including books, articles, audio-visual materials, and microforms. ILL guidelines are set by the American Library Association's Interlibrary Loan Code for the United States (2016) and local policies established by individual libraries. Some items may be difficult or impossible to obtain through ILL. These include reference books, very new or old books, rare books, computer software, archival or genealogical materials, and certain serial volumes. While ILL will borrow audio-visual materials, please note that ILL does not schedule them for classroom showings. Faculty interested in this type of service should contact staff in the Media Center, who will consider purchasing the needed item for ISU's collection. When in doubt, consult with an ILL staff member. ILL will borrow materials owned by the ISU Library that are currently checked out. Course reserve materials are not eligible for ILL service. How to Make Requests + Before requesting, please check the Library catalog. For books and other physical items, you may also search WorldCat and click on the Illiad button. If you need help with determining if an item is owned at ISU, use the Ask Us! feature or visit the Parks Library Research Help Desk. For journal articles, you may also want to check the A-Z list of electronic journals. Most article indexes and databases in the ISU library also provide a "Get It@ISU" button, which will take you to an ILL request screen. If we own the article you want but it's not available electronically, feel free to submit a request for that item and we can supply it as part of our Document Delivery program. Submit your request through ILLiad, our online order form. Please provide ILL staff with as much information as possible about items ordered so that they can be successfully obtained. For loans, please provide, at minimum, a complete title. Other information, such as the author, date, publisher, and (if relevant) the edition, is also useful in getting you what you want. For copies of articles, please include the journal title, volume, date, author(s), article title, and page numbers whenever possible. Unique identifiers, such as ISBN, ISSN, DOI, ERIC, or FAO numbers are also helpful. Any information about where the item was cited can be placed in the Notes field. There is no formal limit on the number of requests that users may submit, although any patron with a large number of requests (50 or more) should consult with ILL staff before submitting them. Notification and Delivery + Users will receive an email when their materials are ready for pick up. Users have the following options for receiving physical items: Hold at Parks Library Hold at Veterinary Medicine (Vet Med) Library Mailing If picking up at either Parks or Vet Med, the requesting patron can appoint someone else to pick up the item and sign for it, but the patron is still responsible for its safe and timely return. Patrons choosing to have items sent to them have the following options: Address more than 25 miles from Ames -no charge ISU students living in the continental U.S., Hawaii, and Alaska will receive pre-paid FedEx shipping to and from the library with the submission of a street address. ISU students living in Canada and Mexico can receive international shipping via DHL, but will need to return at their own expense. All other international students should contact the ILL office at borrdesk@iastate.edu to request more information. All other patrons will receive items via 1st class mail, and will be responsible for returning items at their own cost. Address less than 25 miles from Ames - $5.00 for all patrons. Articles, book chapters, and other short pieces requested through ILL are typically delivered electronically to the user's ILLiad account. Users will be notified by email when the item arrives. Electronic documents are kept for a limited time, so please save them if you would like to refer to them again. When ILL receives a paper copy of an article, it will generally be scanned and provided electronically. If copyright statues prevent scanning, however, users will receive the item via their selected delivery choice for loans (Parks Library, Vet Med Library, or mailed). How to Renew Loans + Renewal requests may be placed 5 days before an item is due and up to 5 days after it is due. Some libraries do not allow renewals. Libraries may deny renewal requests or recall their materials at any time. Follow these steps to renew materials borrowed from other libraries: Log in to your Illiad account Select "Checked Out Items" from the left sidebar. Click on the Transaction Number of the item to be renewed. Click on the bold red “Renew Request” link at the top of the record. Please note that the renewal link is available only if the item is renewable, and only for 5 days before to 5 days after the due date. ILL Due Dates + ILL loan periods are determined by the lending library. The due date is indicated on a pink band placed over the cover of the borrowed item. Libraries may place restrictions on the use of loaned materials, such as requiring that the item remain inside the Library, or that photocopying is prohibited. Restrictions will be indicated on the pink band covering the item. Patrons are expected to abide by these restrictions. Renewal requests can be placed online (for instructions, see How to Renew Loans). Books and other returnables obtained through ILL must be returned to Parks Library or the Veterinary Med Library on or before the due date. Overdue fees do apply, so it is important that materials are returned by the due date. Prompt return of borrowed items protects our reputation as an excellent ILL service and ensures that libraries will continue to loan their materials to ISU faculty, staff, and students. Privileges for Students, Faculty, Staff, and Other ISU Card Holders + ISU card holders may use the ILL service to borrow books, audio-visual materials, and other returnable formats, as well as copies from the collections of other libraries. ISU patrons may also receive articles and book chapters scanned from ISU print collections, subject to Fair Use guidelines of U.S. copyright law and licensing restrictions. Please note that while it is possible to borrow textbooks through ILL, it is not recommended. Borrowed items can be recalled at any time and there is no guarantee of using a textbook for an entire semester. Textbooks on Course Reserve will not be requested. Articles are generally delivered between 24 to 72 hours. Books and other borrowed items are generally delivered within 3 to 15 days, depending on each item’s location and the shipping method used by the lending library. Items shipped internationally or that are difficult to obtain may take more time. Most items are available for free, funded by the ISU Library. You will be asked to approve any charges before they incur, and you have the option to decline the fulfilment of requests requiring payment. The following forms of payment are accepted: Cash Check Visa / Mastercard / Discover ISU intramural purchase order ISU account (incurs additional $3 billing fee) ISU card privileges are available to the following: ISU students (ISU card included as part of the registration process) Faculty, professional and scientific (P&S) staff, and merit employees (they may obtain an ISU card through the administrative offices of their departments or colleges) Associates For additional information, contact the ISU Card Office at 515 294-2727. Privileges for Library Visitor Card Holders + ISU Library Visitor card holders may use the ILL service to borrow books, audio-visual materials, and other returnable formats, as well as copies from the collections of other libraries. The borrowing of those materials is free, and is funded by the ISU Library. ISU patrons may also receive articles and book chapters scanned from ISU print collections, subject to Fair Use copyright restrictions. Requests must fall under the Fair Use guidelines of U.S. copyright law and any licensing restrictions. Articles are generally delivered between 24 to 72 hours. Books and other borrowed items are generally delivered within 3 to 15 days, depending on each item’s location and the shipping method used by the lending library. Items shipped internationally or that are difficult to obtain may take more time. The following forms of payment are accepted: Cash Check Visa / Mastercard / Discover ISU intramural purchase order ISU account (incurs additional $3 billing fee) Please contact the ISU Circulation Desk for more information on Library Visitor card eligibility and application requirements. Privileges for Unaffiliated Users + Unaffiliated users are organizations without formal libraries, individuals without an active ISU card or Library Visitor card, and document delivery organizations. Unaffiliated users may use the ILL service to receive copies of articles scanned from ISU print collections for $15.00 per document up to 20 pages, with an additional $0.10 per page after 20 pages. Requests must fall under the Fair Use guidelines of U.S. copyright law and any licensing restrictions. Articles are generally delivered between 24 to 72 hours. Please note that we cannot loan books to unaffiliated users. Please contact your local public or academic library to borrow books from other libraries. Payment is accepted by Visa, Mastercard, and Discover. In order to sign up for an Unaffiliated User account, email us at borrdesk@iastate.edu. Please note that users not affiliated with ISU will be billed for all services provided. Libraries Requesting ISU Materials + Please visit the Libraries Requesting ISU Materials page for detailed information on costs and how to borrow. University Library University Library 701 Morrill Rd Ames, IA 50011-2102 Ask Us! 515 294-3642 phone Email Webmaster Facebook Twitter Follow us FDLP Copyright © 1995-2022 Iowa State University of Science and Technology All rights reserved Non-discrimination Policy Privacy Policy Digital Access & Accessibility Consumer information