Your browser does not support iframes. Skip to main content Menu Scheller College of Business Request More Information Attend an Info Session Contact Us Directory Apply Now Search Why Scheller? Programs Executive Education Academics Centers & Initiatives News & Events Overview & History Dean's Message and Report Meet Ernest Scheller Jr. Advisory Board Accreditation Strategic Plan Business at Tech Graduates Get Hired Return on Investment Faculty and Advisors Global Perspective A Good Fit Corporate Engagement Trading Floor Georgia Tech Community Student Life Making Connections and Learning Opportunities Diversity Diversity News Career and Recruiter Services Career Services for Students Hire Our Students Giving to the College Meeting the Challenge Priorities and Needs Faculty Support Student Support Program Enrichment Unrestricted Endowment The Impact of Your Gift How to Make a Gift FAQs Scheller MBA Annual Fund Alumni Network Alumni News Alumni Resources Update Contact Information Visit Campus Tech Square and Atlanta Full-time MBA Admissions Curriculum Career Development Leadership Development Student Organizations Student & Alumni Profiles Meet an MBA Ambassador FAQsEvening MBA Admissions Curriculum Career Advancement Leadership Development Student Organizations Student & Alumni Profiles Meet an MBA Ambassador FAQs Executive MBA Admissions Curriculum Career Development Student & Alumni Profiles FAQsMBA Programs Which Georgia Tech MBA is Right for Me? Commitment to Diversity, Inclusion, and Equity Dual Degree Options Experiential Learning For Engineers For Military Community MD/MBA Option MBA Early Admission for Undergrads Rankings The Intersection Podcast Earn Your MBA in Atlanta Graduate Certificate Business Analytics Certificate Undergraduate Admissions Curriculum Career Services Student Services Student Life Scholarships & Awards Rankings & Stats Connect With Us The Intersection Podcast, Undergrad PhD Concentrations Program Milestones Faculty and Staff Funding Admissions FAQs Recruiting Events Student Bios Program News Request Program Information Interdisciplinary M.S. M.S. in Quantitative & Computational Finance (QCF) Master of Science in Analytics at Georgia Tech Lean Six Sigma Certification Lean Six Sigma Green Belt Certification Lean Six Sigma Black Belt Certification FAQs Custom Programs FAQs Accounting Finance Information Technology Management Law & Ethics Marketing Operations Management Organizational Behavior Strategy & Innovation Student Certificates Engineering Entrepreneurship Entrepreneurship International Management Management of Technology Technology Innovation: Generating Economic Results Academic Speaker Series Guest Speakers in Accounting Guest Speakers in Finance Guest Speakers in Marketing Current Faculty Opportunities Business Analytics Center Engage with Us Executive Council News Research Education People Cecil B. Day Program for Business Ethics About Cecil B. Day The Cecil B. Day Prize Speakers and Events Faculty Support Net Impact Center for International Business Education and Research Projects Research Events Books People at CIBER Inside CIBER News and Events Archives International Management Certificate Sign Up for Future CIBER News Financial Analysis Lab Subscribe to Reports Institute for Leadership and Social Impact About Us Programs News Impact Speaker Series Leadership for Social Good Study Abroad Program Social Impact Fellows Ideas to Serve (I2S) Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Servant Leadership Programs Minor in Leadership Studies Excel Alumni Other ILSI Programs Partnerships Program for Engineering Entrepreneurship Ray C. Anderson Center for Sustainable Business About Us Sustainable Business Insights Research Briefs Sustainable Business Events Sustainable Business News Blog Research & Thought Leadership Empowering Students Industry Engagement Newsletter Participating in the Drawdown Georgia Compact Drawdown Georgia Business Compact Meet the Team Alumni Steven A. Denning Technology & Management Program Director's Message About Steven A. Denning T&M Curriculum Program Faculty & Staff Admissions T&M Corporate Affiliates Denning T&M Program News TI:GER® and CDL-Atlanta Program Network TI:GER MBA & PhD FAQs News Apply Inquire Resources in Technology Innovation and Entrepreneurship Scheller News Event Calendar The Intersection Podcast Media Inquiry Marketing Innovation Conference @ Scheller Executive MBA FAQs Home » Programs » MBA » Executive MBA » FAQs Menu Executive MBA Admissions Curriculum Career Development Student & Alumni Profiles FAQs Global Business Management of Technology What is an Executive MBA? Executive MBA Events Meet Us Directions, Parking, and Accommodations How do I get to the Scheller College of Business? View detailed directions and parking How do I get from the airport to the Scheller College? Many visitors take MARTA (light rail) from the airport. There are two MARTA stations (North Avenue and Midtown) within blocks of the College and there are a variety of hotels and restaurants in the immediate vicinity. There are many other options for traveling to and from Hartsfield-Jackson International Airport to Midtown Atlanta. Are there hotels near campus? Yes. There are many hotels to choose from near the College of Business and the Georgia Tech campus. Here are several options:(ask for Georgia Tech rates) Georgia Tech Hotel and Conference Center (across the street from Scheller College of Business) 800 Spring Street NW, Atlanta, GA 30308 Reservations: 404-347-9440; 800-706-2899 This full-service hotel located on the Georgia Tech campus, offers restaurant, bar and room service seven days a week as well as numerous restaurant options just steps away. The hotel also features free wireless internet, fitness center (including indoor pool) and FREE transportation on the Tech Trolley that stops right in front of the hotel. Remember to take your picture with the Ramblin' Wreck on display in the lobby! Ask for the Georgia Tech rate! Many of the hotels listed below also offer Georgia Tech rates. Be sure to ask! Georgian Terrace (.5 miles from Scheller College of Business) 659 Peachtree Street Atlanta, GA 30308 404-897-1991 Hilton Garden Inn/Homewood Suites (0.5 miles from Scheller College of Business) 97 10th Street NW Atlanta, GA 30309 404-524-4006 Hotel Indigo Atlanta Midtown (.5 miles from Scheller College of Business) 683 Peachtree Street. NE Atlanta, GA 30308 404-874-9200 Regency Suites Hotel (.3 miles from the Scheller College of Business) 975 West Peachtree St. NW, Atlanta, GA 30309 800-642-3629 Renaissance Atlanta Hotel Downtown (.1 mile walk from Scheller College of Business) 866 West Peachtree Street NW Atlanta, GA 30308 678-412-2400 Residence Inn Atlanta Midtown / Historic (.5 miles from Scheller College of Business) 1041 West Peachtree Street Atlanta, GA 30309 404-872-8885 Residence Inn Midtown/Peachtree at 17th (1.2 miles from Scheller College of Business) 1365 W Peachtree St NE Atlanta, GA 30309 404-745-1000 Tell me more about Tech Square. Learn more about Tech Square. Tell me more about Atlanta. Learn more about Atlanta. Program Information What is the Georgia Tech Executive MBA format? The Executive MBA (EMBA) format is designed for working professionals with a minimum of 5 years of progressive career experience. You do not have to be at an executive level to participate in the EMBA program. Our EMBA students average 13 - 15 years of work experience and are seeking a MBA that specifically focuses on the knowledge and skill sets they need to advance their careers or move into new career paths. The Executive MBA format also offers a more enhanced level of service than most MBA programs. Every Georgia Tech EMBA student is assigned a Program Manager who will help ensure all administrative forms and tasks are completed so your transition into the EMBA program is as seamless as possible. They will also support you throughout your EMBA journey and will be your primary point of contact during the 17 months of the program. EMBA students move through the program as a cohort, beginning the 17-month program with a week-long residency held at Georgia Tech and then attending classes approximately two to three weekends a month on select Friday evenings (5:30 PM - 9:30 PM) and Saturdays (8:30 AM - 5:30 PM) for the duration of the program. There are no Sunday classes. There is an additional on-campus week-long residency in December of the first semester, and a mandatory two-week international residency. What is the difference between Executive, Evening, and Full-time MBAs? Executive, Evening, and Full-time refer to the format of the classes/program, not to the MBA degree itself. It is important to note that students who enroll in the Executive MBA Program earn MBA degrees, not “Executive MBA” degrees. Upon completion of the Executive MBA program, students are awarded either an “MBA - Global Business” degree or an “MBA - Management of Technology” degree, depending on which degree specialty they select. Georgia Tech Executive MBA program is a 17-month MBA program with classes held on selected Friday evenings and Saturdays, generally in an every-other-weekend format. There are no Sunday classes. What are the differences between the EMBA Global Business and Management of Technology programs? Both programs share a core MBA curriculum that all EMBA students, regardless of program specialty, must complete. The Global Business Program has a special emphasis on the managerial challenges associated with the global business environment, while the Management of Technology Program has an emphasis on the managerial challenges associated with innovation and technology. The Executive MBA Global Business program teaches you to think strategically and contribute to companies that work across borders and around the world. After the MBA core, Global Business transitions to a specialized curriculum focusing on the dynamics of global competition and strategies for building a global competitive advantage. Learn more about the Global Business curriculum. The Global Strategy Project is the program's capstone experience – where you and your capstone team will work with a company to address an actual issue on a global scale. You’ll identify opportunities and make recommendations of how to implement strategies internationally, from product and pricing to procurement, logistics, and management. Learn more about the Global Business Program and the Global Strategy Project. Our Executive MBA Management of Technology program teaches you to forecast and embrace emerging technologies, all while managing innovation and organizational change. Learn more about the Management of Technology curriculum. The New Product and Service Launch Project is the program's capstone project. As a member of a select team, you’ll choose an emerging technology and complete a full business plan, demonstrating your understanding of how to take a technology-driven product or service to market. This powerful integrative experience for the EMBA-MoT Program concludes with a juried business plan competition. Learn more about the Management of Technology Program and the New Product and Service Launch Project. Where are Executive MBA classes held? Classes are held in the state-of-the art Huang Executive Education Center in the Scheller College of Business, located at the corner of West Peachtree Street and Fifth Street in Technology Square. What is the profile of a typical student? Qualified candidates have several years of professional work experience (a minimum of five years is required) with a history of professional advancement and leadership. Students' personal and professional backgrounds vary, bringing diversity to the classroom experience. What career advancement outcomes can I expect from the Executive MBA program? Our Executive MBA students report an average 15% salary increase from program start to graduation and 37% report experiencing a change in job level while in the program. Do you have to live or work in Atlanta to participate in either EMBA program? No. Though many students reside in Georgia, some students commute from other states. Travel expenses and accommodations for the domestic residencies and classes are not included in the cost of the program, but we will gladly provide you with a list of local lodging options. How big is the class? Each degree program has approximately 55-65 students per cohort, for a total of approximately 110-130 students per admission year. What happens during the international residency? Students visit businesses and educational institutions in established and emerging economies during the international residency. You’ll examine the cultural, legal, and economic aspects of each location you visit, gaining deeper, firsthand knowledge of international business practices and cultures. Ultimately, you’ll gain an understanding of the country’s economy and how to effectively conduct business there. Learn more about the Global Business Program’s international residency. Learn more about the Management of Technology Program’s international residency. What will my diploma say? Depending on which of our two degrees you pursue, you will receive one of the following: Master of Business Administration – Global Business Master of Business Administration in Management of Technology How many hours do students spend on work outside of class? On average, students spend between 10 and 20 hours per week on assignments outside of class. This number will vary based on how familiar you are with the courses taught in a given semester. Is the program offered online? At this time, we do not offer this program online. When does the program begin? The next class begins August 2022 and graduates in December 2023. If you are interested in applying for the Class of 2023, please contact us at 404.385.2254 or via email at EMBA@gatech.edu to learn more. Will I have access to Georgia Tech resources? Yes, you will have access to all student resources. One of the key differentiators of our program is the fact you experience your program on a diverse and complete college campus. Whether it is the library resources, the recreation center, or cheering for Division I-A sports teams, you are a full member of the Georgia Tech campus community. Do I need a laptop computer? Yes, a laptop computer is necessary for classwork and projects. Specific parameters are provided upon acceptance to the program. How big is the alumni network? The EMBA Program alumni network is more than 1,900 strong. In addition, the Georgia Tech and College of Business networks have thousands of loyal participants. Can I attend a class session to experience the program firsthand? We will be happy to schedule a class visit for you to one of our EMBA classes. We request that you first attend one of our EMBA Info Sessions (you may register online on this site) or submit your current resume for review to us at EMBA@gatech.edu. Upon completion of either of these requests, we will contact you to arrange a class visit that meets your schedule. Admissions What are the admission requirements? At least five years of professional experience (internships and co-ops are not included) Online application (including a $75 application fee for U.S. citizens and permanent residents, $85 for international applicants) Academic transcripts from all colleges previously attended A complete and current resume showing career progession Two professional letters of recommendation (including your immediate supervisor) Admissions interview (can be scheduled prior to submitting the online application) Official standardized test score (GMAT, GRE, or Executive Assessment accepted) or standardized test waiver. Please contact the EMBA admissions office at emba@gatech.edu or 404.385.2254 for more details Official TOEFL or IELTS score (if required) How do I apply? You will need to begin your application here, and are required to select your MBA specialization, MBA in Global Business or MBA in Management of Technology, at the time of application. We recommend you plan 45 minutes to one hour to complete your application. For questions on the admissions process, the admissions team is here to assist you every step of the way. To connect with a member of the admissions team, please email us at emba@gatech.edu, call at 404.385.2254, or schedule a one-on-one consultation to review your resume, discuss the test waiver, and assist you in determining if the Georgia Tech EMBA program is the right fit for you, prior to submitting your application. This is an optional step but highly encouraged. To schedule a consultation, please click here. When is the application deadline? Applicants are admitted on a rolling admissions basis, with applications processed as they are submitted for the incoming class. We highly recommend submitting your application as early as possible to ensure your placement in the program. Class seats are awarded on a first come, first-served basis. Application deadlines for the EMBA program are: Round 1 - November 15, 2021 Round 2 - February 1, 2022 Round 3 - March 22, 2022 Round 4 - May 24, 2022 Final Application Deadline - June 30, 2022 Please contact us at 404.385.2254 or via email at EMBA@gatech.edu to learn more. How much does the program cost and what does tuition cover? The program fee for the class is $82,500.* This includes all textbooks, classroom materials, access to campus resources; on-ground costs for the international residency; on-campus parking across from the College of Business; executive coaching, career development programs, and lifetime executive coaching for alumni; food and refreshments during scheduled class times; and admission to guest speaker events, symposia, and lectures. *subject to change Is my company required to sponsor me during the program? Your company is not required to sponsor you financially or submit a letter of company support for your enrollment. We do suggest you discuss the time commitment required for the program and your program goals with your employer. This is an excellent way of positioning yourself for future opportunities within your company, if your goal is advancement within your organization. Is there financial aid available? Yes. There are numerous financial aid options for which you may be eligible. To learn more, please visit www.finaid.gatech.edu for more information. Do I have to take the GMAT/GRE/Executive Assessment? The GMAT/GRE/EA requirement may be waived based on a review of your academic profile and work experience. To request a standardized test waiver you will be required to submit a written request (two pages maximum) that addresses the following: Quantitative experience in both your professional and academic history Undergraduate major and GPA Any applicable quantitative coursework or graduate degrees earned Self-evaluation of mathematical skill set (e.g., finance, accounting, statistics) Current/previous quantitative roles and responsibilities (P+L, budgeting, etc.) Short and long term career goals How a Georgia Tech Executive MBA in Global Business or Management of Technology will help you reach your goals Submit the completed essay through the online application or via email to emba@gatech.edu if you are requesting an admissions interview prior to applying. If you have already taken the GMAT, GRE, or Executive Assessment, please enter you score where indicated on the online application. Please contact us at 404.385.2254 or via email at emba@gatech.edu if you have specific questions about your qualifications for this waiver. Does my work experience need to be as a manager? Your work experience should be in a professional setting, but you do not need to have managed people to apply to the Georgia Tech Executive MBA Program. Do I need to have an undergraduate degree? Yes. You must have a four-year degree from a regionally accredited institution to apply to the Executive MBA Program. For international students, you must have a four-year degree equivalent. How many people typically apply to one of your Executive MBA Programs? We typically receive over 100 applications per degree program, and seat a class of 55-65 students per degree program. We prescreen applicants for the Executive MBA Program, so unqualified students typically remove themselves from the process and do not officially apply to the program. Of those who apply, how many are accepted? Because of our heavy prescreening process during which we encourage unqualified prospects not to apply to the program, there is approximately an 80% acceptance rate. Will I be interviewed? Yes, each qualified applicant will be invited for a one-hour admissions interview as part of the application process. When will I know if I have been accepted? The admissions process typically takes two to four weeks after we have received your completed application and have conducted your admissions interview. Whom may I contact if I have more questions? Please contact the Executive MBA Program Admissions team at 404.385.2254 or via email at emba@gatech.edu to learn more. Next Steps Request More Info Attend an Info Session Apply Now 2022–2023 EMBA Calendar Scheller College of Business Home Why Scheller? Overview & History Business at Tech Georgia Tech Community Career and Recruiter Services Giving to the College Alumni Network Visit Campus Tech Square and Atlanta Programs MBA Undergraduate PhD Interdisciplinary M.S. Executive Education Lean Six Sigma Certification Custom Programs Academics Accounting Finance Information Technology Management Law & Ethics Marketing Operations Management Organizational Behavior Strategy & Innovation Student Certificates Academic Speaker Series Current Faculty Opportunities Centers & Initiatives Business Analytics Center Cecil B. Day Program for Business Ethics Center for International Business Education and Research Financial Analysis Lab Institute for Leadership and Social Impact Program for Engineering Entrepreneurship Ray C. Anderson Center for Sustainable Business Steven A. Denning Technology & Management Program TI:GER® and CDL-Atlanta News & Events Scheller News Event Calendar The Intersection Podcast Media Inquiry Marketing Innovation Conference @ Scheller LinkedIn Instagram Facebook Twitter Youtube Flickr Georgia Institute of Technology Scheller College of Business 800 W. Peachtree St. NW Atlanta, GA 30308 404.894.2600 © 2022 Georgia Institute of Technology Intranet Emergency Information Contact the College Privacy & Legal Notice Accountability Web Accessibility Resources for People with Disabilities Plugins Youtube Usage Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Hazing Public Disclosures