Skip to Main Content Brown University Secondary Navigation Navigation About Events For You Current Students Faculty Staff Parents & Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Give to Brown Site Navigation Academics Undergraduate Graduate & Professional Schools & Colleges Academic Departments Centers & Institutes Libraries & Collections Global Education Non-Degree Programs Admission & Aid Undergraduate Admission Graduate Admission Medical School Admission Executive & Professional Admission Tuition & Aid Research Find a Researcher Industry Engagement Conducting Research at Brown Life at Brown Athletics & Recreation Community Health & Wellness Housing & Dining Life in Providence Student Organizations University Events News Featured Events For Journalists Search Menu Brown and Providence The story of Brown is also the story of Providence and Rhode Island. The University has been intertwined with this diverse and vibrant city since the founding of the republic. Breadcrumb Home About Brown Sub Navigation In This Section Brown at a Glance History Leadership Brown and Providence Visit Brown and Providence The story of Brown is also the story of Providence and Rhode Island. The University has been intertwined with this diverse and vibrant city since the founding of the republic. Brown's home for more than two and a half centuries, Providence is a vibrant place to live, work and study, a stimulating hub for innovation, and a city rich in cultural diversity. With undergraduate education centered in the historic College Hill neighborhood and a growing presence in the Jewelry District — a flourishing hub for science, technology, health, medicine and entrepreneurship — Brown is deeply committed to meaningful community engagement. Brown fosters innovative community partnerships and facilitates strong relationships with neighbors, nonprofit organizations, schools, civic organizations and businesses. Engaged Learning Brown promotes numerous opportunities for our students, faculty and staff to work with community members in Providence to strengthen the educational, economic and social assets of our city, state and region. For students, this means access to internships and hands-on learning that blends academic work with real-world experiences. And it means building partnerships in the community through social innovation, entrepreneurship and collaborative startup ventures. Engaged Scholarship Certificate Engaged Scholarship Certificate (ESC) allows undergraduate students to investigate public, civic, and/or social justice issues that they are passionate about through the integration of academic study with community-based learning, research, and action. Visit Page Open details for Engaged Scholarship Certificate CareerLAB Whether you're a first-year student, a senior or a graduate student, the CareerLAB has advising, programs and resources to help you. Visit Page Open details for CareerLAB Nelson Center for Entrepreneurship The Nelson Center supports a collaborative, adaptive, cross-disciplinary vision for entrepreneurship at Brown. Visit Page Open details for Nelson Center for Entrepreneurship Local Impact Brown has a longtime commitment to spurring economic development and fueling growth in the city it calls home. Brown has invested $225 million in the Jewelry District, catalyzing a vibrant ecosystem of academics, commerce and creative transformation. And the University has active partnerships with Providence schools, supporting thousands of students in urban districts. 1,715 Brown employees live in Providence 450 Brown undergraduates volunteer in Providence Public Schools each year $ 250,000 in financial assistance provided by Brown to underrepresented college-bound seniors from Providence since 2013 South Street Landing Brown is the anchor tenant in South Street Landing, a $220 million redevelopment project in Providence’s Jewelry District. Visit Page Open details for South Street Landing Partnering with Providence Schools Brown and the city's thriving set of partnerships enrich educational opportunities in Providence schools. Visit Page Open details for Partnering with Providence Schools Brown and the Innovation Economy The University is working to maximize its impact on innovation, entrepreneurship and job growth in Rhode Island. Visit Page Open details for Brown and the Innovation Economy Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown Social Navigation Facebook Instagram LinkedIn Snapchat Twitter YouTube Social Media Directory © Brown University Brown University For You Current Students Faculty Staff Parents & Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Academics Undergraduate Graduate & Professional Schools & Colleges Academic Departments Centers & Institutes Libraries & Collections Global Education Non-Degree Programs Admission & Aid Undergraduate Admission Graduate Admission Medical School Admission Executive & Professional Admission Tuition & Aid Research Find a Researcher Industry Engagement Conducting Research at Brown Life at Brown Athletics & Recreation Community Health & Wellness Housing & Dining Life in Providence Student Organizations University Events News Featured Events For Journalists Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation About Events For You Give to Brown All of Brown.edu People News Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Brown and Providence Open details for Brown and Providence Bookmark this Page