Skip to main content University of Nebraska–Lincoln Visit Visit Visit the University of Nebraska–Lincoln Apply Apply Apply to the University of Nebraska–Lincoln Give Give Give to the University of Nebraska–Lincoln Log In Search Search Form Search Submit Close Office of the Chancellor Menu Search Log In Chancellor's Home Ronnie Green Biography Request for Appearance Administration Deans Commissions and Collaboratives Photo Gallery Past Chancellors Our Bold Vision The N|150 Commission N2025 Strategic Plan Journey for Anti-Racism & Racial Equity Documents UNL Strategic Compass Policy Memoranda UNL Bylaws Budget Chancellor Communication State of the University Chancellor's Messages Meditations and Musings Radio Interviews Events & News Installation of the Twentieth Chancellor Appointment of the Twentieth Chancellor News Archive Visit Visit the University of Nebraska–Lincoln Apply Apply to the University of Nebraska–Lincoln Give Give to the University of Nebraska–Lincoln Nebraska Office of the Chancellor Chancellor's Home Chancellor Ronnie Green 2021 State of Our University Address N2025 Strategic Plan Our Anti-Racism Actions Welcome. The University of Nebraska–Lincoln is building on its land-grant mission. Nebraska consistently ranks in the top tier of national research universities and is located in one of the safest and most dynamic cities in America. Here on our website, you’ll find exciting opportunities for personal growth and achievement. Learn more about our robust academic programs, diligent outreach to our state and nation, and research leadership in areas as diverse as nanotechnology, digital humanities and water and food security. We invite you to continue exploring here and to visit us in person – you’ll find there is truly “No Place Like Nebraska.” Chancellor Ronnie Green Tweets by RonnieDGreen Journey for Anti-Racism and Racial Equity UNL’s institutional commitment to anti-racism and racial equity is an extension of the University’s N2025 strategic aims to emphasize inclusive excellence, enhance the student experience, increase our research, creative activity and engagement, and provide professional development and learning experiences for faculty, staff, and students. The Journey will build on the work already occurring across our University, while advancing new knowledge and practice. The Journey website is our institutional hub to monitor and share progress of our collective Journey. Journey Website 5 Years In A Row Best for Vets (Military Times) NO. 1 online MBA program Value for the money (Financial Times) TOP Producer, Student Fulbrights (2020-21) The University of Nebraska-Lincoln, as our statewide, comprehensive campus, is indeed the DNA of Nebraska and beyond… Our mission as we look out to the immediate and long-term years has never been more important to meet the grand challenges of our world. Ronnie Green Future of Nebraska Address: 1400 R Street Lincoln, NE 68588 Phone Number: 402-472-7211 Related Links University Communication Campus Links Directory Employment Events Libraries Maps News Office of the Chancellor Report an Incident Policies & Reports Accessibility Statement Emergency Planning and Preparedness Institutional Equity and Compliance Notice of Nondiscrimination Privacy Policy Security and Fire Safety Report Student Information Disclosures UNL web framework and quality assurance provided by the Web Developer Network · QA Test University of Nebraska–Lincoln Established 1869 · Copyright 2022 Some parts of this site work best with JavaScript enabled.