Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. Campus Recreation Campus Recreation right arrow down arrow Hours & Schedules right arrow down arrow Campus Recreation Center (CRC) Fitness Center at CARE/Crawley Aquatics Fitness Classes Intramurals Climbing Wall Severe Weather Policy COVID-19 Operations right arrow down arrow Fitness Floor Map Virtual Resources Visit right arrow down arrow Getting Started right arrow down arrow Fitness Floor Orientation Equipment Tutorials Parking Facility Hours Terms & Conditions Lockers & Towels Pro Shop FAQ Things To Do right arrow down arrow Fitness Classes right arrow down arrow Online Fitness Fitness Programs & Special Events 30 Minute Workout Area Personal Training Trainings & Certifications Aquatics Climbing right arrow down arrow Policies & Waiver Intramural Sports right arrow down arrow Intramural Sports Rules right arrow down arrow Intramural Sports Handbook 3-on-3 Basketball 5-on-5 Basketball 7-on-7 Football 7-on-7 Soccer 11-on-11 Soccer 4-on-4 Volleyball 6-on-6 Volleyball Dodgeball Futsal Kickball Pickleball Softball Spikeball Tennis Ultimate Wallyball FAQ Racquetball REC Kids Camp right arrow down arrow Parent/Guardian Guide Team Building Pickleball Membership right arrow down arrow Rates & Discounts Fitness Floor Orientation Terms & Conditions Facilities & Rentals right arrow down arrow Facility Rentals Birthday Parties Process Rates Policies Reservation Jobs right arrow down arrow Staff Directory Student Employment Home » Campus Life » Campus Recreation » Things To Do » Climbing Set Navigation title in component Fitness Classes Online Fitness Fitness Programs & Special Events 30 Minute Workout Area Personal Training Trainings & Certifications Aquatics Climbing Policies & Waiver Intramural Sports Intramural Sports Rules Intramural Sports Handbook 3-on-3 Basketball 5-on-5 Basketball 7-on-7 Football 7-on-7 Soccer 11-on-11 Soccer 4-on-4 Volleyball 6-on-6 Volleyball Dodgeball Futsal Kickball Pickleball Softball Spikeball Tennis Ultimate Wallyball FAQ Racquetball REC Kids Camp Parent/Guardian Guide Team Building Pickleball Climbing Campus Recreation Center’s Climbing Wall offers members and event groups an exciting way to build confidence and teamwork, as well as providing an enjoyable workout. Our Climbing Wall consists of two, 28' and four, 40' top rope climbing areas to accommodate multiple users. NICROS Inc. WestCoast Wall offers varied terrain and features that provide a full spectrum of climbing experiences. The "naturals" in the wall give the climber the option to use the wall or the standard climbing holds to navigate routes. The Bouldering Wall is an expertly carved surface that enables climbers to feel as if they are climbing on natural rock. The climbing and bouldering walls' areas total approximately 2,000 square feet of climbing space. All harness and shoe rentals are FREE! Staff will be on-hand to belay members, however those who would like to belay must register for and complete a Belay Certification Clinic or perform a skills test-out for $5. The Climbing Wall is available for rental and a great place to host a Birthday Party! All Campus Recreation instructional classes are non-credit. climbing wall policies & waiver Climbing Clinics Climbing 101 This six week course will prepare participants to feel comfortable entering any climbing gym. Staff will focus on technique and terminology and engage participants in a variety of climbing exercises. Classes will be held weekly on Mondays and Tuesdays.  No classes on UC holidays or breaks. $30 /members $45 /non-members Course Dates February 28 - April 12 Course Outline Week 1 Introduction, equipment, definitions, etiquette Week 2 Bouldering, technique, problem reading, static vs. dynamic climbing, traversing Week 3 Belay Certification Part 1 Week 4 Belay Certification Part 2 Week 5 Top rope climbing, technique, route reading, endurance exercises Week 6 Training, using feet, sit starts Experience Level This course is suited best for beginner to intermediate climbers. Beginning climbers will learn the basics of climbing while intermediate climbers will be able to refine skills. At the end of the course, participants will: Gain an understanding of basic climbing technique, commands and skills Be certified to belay at the Campus Recreation Center* Learn training techniques needed to continuously improve skill *Participants must pass the Campus Recreation Center belay skills tests before the third week of class in order to be certified to belay at the Campus Recreation Center. Belay Certification is valid for one calendar year. Belay Certification Clinic Participants in this instructional program are taught the proper belaying procedures and are held to the same standards as staff. Having the certification allows members to belay for each other without being dependent on CRC staff every time they wish to climb. $15 /members $20 /non-members Belay Certification Clinics are offered at the Climbing Wall on Wednesdays and Thursdays. Belay clinics start at 8:00 p.m. No Belay clinics on UC holidays or breaks. Belay verb: / bi’lā /  the act of tending a climber’s rope to take out slack and secure a fall. The belayer is the person securing the climber. Course Description right arrow down arrow Belay Certification Clinics are one 90 minute class. Participants will be required to return to the wall at least 24 hours after this completed class to take a practical belay skills test. Participants who complete the class and practical tests will be certified to belay at the Campus Recreation Center for one calendar year. Participants who fail any portion of the class, or associated test will need to re-take (and re-pay the fee) the Belay Certification Clinic. Register in person for all classes and competitions at the Climbing Wall or Member Services Desk, online using My Member Services or by phone at 513-556-0604. Bouldering Competitions Bouldering competitions consist of climbing short problems with the emphasis on number of problems completed. Spring 2022 Bouldering Comp April 9 Entry Fee $20 for members, $25 for non-members Categories Beginner, Intermediate, Advanced Competitors under the age of 18 must have a parent/legal guardian sign the waiver Awards Men’s, Beginner, Intermediate and Advanced winners Women’s Beginner, Intermediate and Advanced winners Register Register in person for all classes and competitions at the Climbing Wall or Member Services Desk, online using My Member Services or by phone at 513-556-0604. Climbing Wall Rules and Regulations right arrow down arrow Campus Recreation climbing staff must be present in order for members to climb or be in the climbing area. All participants must read and understand the climbing rules and sign a Waiver of Liability and Assumption of Risk before being allowed to climb. Climbers must be 5 years of age and older and able to fit into a child harness. Please Note: Minors (climbers 17 years of age and younger) must have a parent’s or legal guardian’s signature on all forms. Climbers 13 years of age and younger must be supervised by an adult at all times. Climbers must be 15 years of age and older to take a belay clinic. Please Note: Individuals who have a history of epilepsy or any other condition that could alter level of consciousness are not eligible to take a belay clinic or belay at the wall. Please ask the climbing staff if you are unsure if you fit into this category. Climbers’ pockets must be empty. Items and activities prohibited in the climbing wall area: swinging or jumping on ropes, climbing into a position where you are eye level or higher with top anchors, grabbing bolt hangers (bolt hangers are for carabiner attachment only). Belaying policies right arrow down arrow Belayers must lower climbers in a smooth and controlled manner. Belayers must keep their brake hand on the rope at all times. Belay from a standing position only. Climbers should not step under or over an active belay. A follow-through figure-eight knot is required to tie in a climber. Please report any injury or unsafe climbing wall conditions to climbing staff immediately. The number of climbers at any one time may be limited to ensure proper supervision. The Campus Recreation Center climbing staff reserves the right to refuse wall access for the following reasons, including but not limited to: Use of dangerous climbing techniques Suspected recent use of alcohol or other drugs Use of unsafe or unacceptable climbing gear    Bouldering Wall Rules and Regulations right arrow down arrow Boulder climbers are not required to have the ability to belay. Otherwise, all climbing wall policies, rules, and regulations apply to bouldering. Campus Recreation strongly recommends the use of spotters while bouldering. We encourage climbers to ask climbing staff about proper spotting techniques. Climbers cannot boulder more than 10’ above the floor. Climbers must check in at the Climbing Wall Desk before bouldering. Climbers may not boulder above or below any other climbers. Climbers, with the exception of climbing staff, may not switch holds. Climbing staff may switch holds only when necessary. Campus Recreation Center | 2820 Bearcat Way | Cincinnati OH 45221 | 513-556-0604 Fitness Center at Care Crawley | 3230 Eden Avenue | Cincinnati OH 45267 | 513-558-0604 campusrec@uc.edu UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati Campus Recreation Center | 2820 Bearcat Way | Cincinnati OH 45221 | 513-556-0604 Fitness Center at Care Crawley | 3230 Eden Avenue | Cincinnati OH 45267 | 513-558-0604 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top