Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University GSAS Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded I am a... Degree Programs Student Guide Graduate Life Our Community Blog Prospective Student Current Student Faculty & Staff Alumna / Alumnus Admissions MA Programs PhD Programs Coronavirus Information for GSAS Students Financing Your Education New Student Guide Policy Handbook Research Teaching The Dissertation Career Development Convocation Diversity and Inclusion GSAS Writing Studio Graduate Student Center Student Life & Well-Being Alumni Network Dean’s Welcome GSAS at a Glance History Publications Staff Contact Us GSAS You are here: Home I am a... Current Students Current Students Please find below a list of pages frequently viewed by current GSAS students. You may also refer to the Student Guide and Graduate Life sections. Key Contacts Office of Student Affairs 107 Low Library, MC 4304 535 West 116th Street New York, NY 10027 [email protected] (212) 854-4932 Office of Financial Aid 107 Low Memorial Library, MC 4304 535 West 116th Street New York, NY 10027 [email protected] (212) 854-3808 Quick Links Directory of Classes View Columbia course listings by subject, department, keyword, and more. Student Services Online (SSOL) SSOL allows students to check their registration appointment times, register for courses, view their bill, and more. Policy Handbook All master's and doctoral students should familiarize themselves with and follow the policies of the university, the Graduate School, and their individual programs of study. Visiting Columbia Visitors interested in graduate study should contact the department directly for more information about the program and departmental tours. Forms for Students Download forms related to student affairs and financial aid. Student Life & Well-Being See a list of campus resources intended to enhance your life as a student and support your well-being. Events View upcoming workshops, information sessions, social outings, and more. Diversity and Inclusion At GSAS, diversity is an academic value, one that is a marker of institutional excellence as well as a benchmark of innovation for our research, programming, and student environment. Graduate Student Center This space brings together graduate students, postdoctoral researchers, and faculty from across schools. Financing Your Education The Office of Financial Aid implements school policies relating to graduate financial aid. Teaching The experience of teaching as a graduate student is a foundational element of doctoral education, and one of the most significant and vital parts of your professional apprenticeship. Staff Directory View a full listing of GSAS staff. Convocation Join us in celebrating graduating GSAS students. Graduate School of Arts and Sciences109 Low Memorial Library, MC 4306, 535 West 116th Street · New York, NY 10027 Phone (212) 854-8903 Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close