Skip to main content Skip to main navigation Baylor Magazine - Spring 2022 Menu Features Guiding BEARs Being Baylor Online 18 Online Professional Programs Impacting Our World Thasunda Brown Duckett, M.B.A. '01 Alex Le Roux, B.S. '15 Rebekah Naylor, B.A. '64, M.D Susan Peters, B.A. '86 Giancarlo Guerrero, B.M. '91 Christopher Scott, B.A. '04 Fran George, A.B.C. '16 The Meaning of R1 Along Fifth Street An Upward Trajectory Baylor Grads Finding Success After Graduation Georgia Senior Wins Churchill Scholarship The Best Hour of the Week Baylor's New Front Door Honoring Baylor's First Black Grads Baylor Law Moot Court Team Wins First Place Endowment Elevates FastBacc® Program New Sculpture Accents Truett Prayer Garden Honors Residential College Improvements Bears Roar on Twitter Caring for Student Mental Health Students Return to Spring Break Service Baylor Welcomes Black Business Student Association Baylor Pianist Wins National Honors Endeavors The Meaning of R1 Fanfare Elite Programs Our Time Lenard Looks to Lead Women's Soccer to New Heights Give Light $1.1 Billion and Counting Faces of Give Light 2022 Founders Medal Recipients: Paul and Alejandra Foster Alumni News & Notes Alumni-elected Regent Selection Barbara Calhoun Cargill Ryan D. Pratt Mark M. Shelton Class Notes A Global Bear Freddy's fronted by Baylor Bear Forbes Recognizes Baylor Alumna 1940s-60s 1970s 1980s 1990s 2000s 2010s Friends & Family Bear Cub Corner In Memoriam Submit a Class Note or Obit Address Update A Look Back About About Baylor Magazine Subscribe Address Update Previous Issues Baylor>Baylor Magazine - Spring 2022>Alumni News & Notes>Class Notes>Forbes Recognizes Baylor Alumna Forbes Recognizes Baylor Alumna Amira Lewally, BBA ’15 (Forbes) Amira Lewally, BBA ’15, is a supervising producer for cable network A&E, which is owned by Hearst Communications and The Walt Disney Company. She works for A&E’s Indie Films Brands and has produced documentaries including The Secret Origins of Hip Hop and Biography: TLC. In November, Lewally was named to the 2022 Forbes Hollywood and Entertainment 30 Under 30 list. It is a professional recognition of which she has dreamed for years. In 2013, she taped pictures of that year’s honorees on her wall as inspiration. “It feels like reassurance that I’m doing what I’m meant to do, which is what we all want,” she said. “I happen to love what I’m meant to do.” Already a business major, Lewally became interested in film and TV while at Baylor and added a film and digital media minor. She decided to pursue a Master of Fine Arts while taking a screenwriting class. Lewally earned an MFA in writing and producing for television at Long Island University in New York. Thereafter, she decided to enter the production realm of the entertainment industry. She joined A&E in 2017 as a programming coordinator and was promoted to associate producer in two years. Lewally was promoted to supervising producer last year. Her current role allows her to work on a variety of projects and help people tell their stories. “As a writer, I feel like you tell your own story. I get to tell a hundred people’s stories and fight for the stories to be told in different ways,” Lewally said. Additionally, Lewally co-hosts The Table is Ours, an A&E podcast that highlights how Black people across industries have created their own “seat at the table.” The podcast debuted in February 2021. Lewally is involved in several diversity initiatives at A&E, and she is excited about the direction the industry is heading. “Our whole industry is shifting to be more inclusive,” Lewally said. “I do a lot behind the scenes to make sure not only is our content inclusive on screen, but also behind the scenes because it matters who is telling the stories.” Alumni News & Notes Alumni-elected Regent Selection Barbara Calhoun Cargill Ryan D. Pratt Mark M. Shelton Class Notes A Global Bear Freddy's fronted by Baylor Bear Forbes Recognizes Baylor Alumna 1940s-60s 1970s 1980s 1990s 2000s 2010s Friends & Family Bear Cub Corner In Memoriam Submit a Class Note or Obit Address Update General Information Colleges, Schools, Libraries & Research Admissions Administration Gateways For... About Baylor Anonymous Reporting Athletics Ask Baylor Bookstore Calendar Campus Map Directory Give Light Give to Baylor Illuminate Mental Health Resources News Pro Futuris Report It Search Social Media Title IX Baylor Libraries College of Arts & Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work George W. Truett Theological Seminary Graduate School Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Louise Herrington School of Nursing Research at Baylor University Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Engineering & Computer Science School of Music More Academics Undergraduate Admissions goBAYLOR Graduate Admissions Baylor Law School Admissions Social Work Graduate Programs George W. Truett Theological Seminary Admissions Online Graduate Professional Education Virtual Tour Visit Campus Annual Fire Safety and Security Notice Athletics Human Resources Marketing and Communications Office of General Counsel Office of the President Office of the Provost Operations, Finance & Administration Senior Administration Student Life University Advancement Baylor Alumni Faculty & Staff Online Graduate Professional Education Parents Prospective Faculty & Staff Prospective Students Students Copyright © Baylor® University. All rights reserved. Legal Disclosures. Baylor University • Waco, Texas 76798 • 1-800-229-5678 Features Guiding BEARs Being Baylor Online 18 Online Professional Programs Impacting Our World Thasunda Brown Duckett, M.B.A. '01 Alex Le Roux, B.S. '15 Rebekah Naylor, B.A. '64, M.D Susan Peters, B.A. '86 Giancarlo Guerrero, B.M. '91 Christopher Scott, B.A. '04 Fran George, A.B.C. '16 The Meaning of R1 Along Fifth Street An Upward Trajectory Baylor Grads Finding Success After Graduation Georgia Senior Wins Churchill Scholarship The Best Hour of the Week Baylor's New Front Door Honoring Baylor's First Black Grads Baylor Law Moot Court Team Wins First Place Endowment Elevates FastBacc® Program New Sculpture Accents Truett Prayer Garden Honors Residential College Improvements Bears Roar on Twitter Caring for Student Mental Health Students Return to Spring Break Service Baylor Welcomes Black Business Student Association Baylor Pianist Wins National Honors Endeavors The Meaning of R1 Fanfare Elite Programs Our Time Lenard Looks to Lead Women's Soccer to New Heights Give Light $1.1 Billion and Counting Faces of Give Light 2022 Founders Medal Recipients: Paul and Alejandra Foster Alumni News & Notes Alumni-elected Regent Selection Barbara Calhoun Cargill Ryan D. Pratt Mark M. Shelton Class Notes A Global Bear Freddy's fronted by Baylor Bear Forbes Recognizes Baylor Alumna 1940s-60s 1970s 1980s 1990s 2000s 2010s Friends & Family Bear Cub Corner In Memoriam Submit a Class Note or Obit Address Update A Look Back About About Baylor Magazine Subscribe Address Update Previous Issues