Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Menu BC Magazine Nav Search Close About Podcasts Class Notes Past Issues Contact Directory A to Z Listing Find pages or people Search Close Architectural rendering: Sasaki SPORTS BC Basketball Gets a New Facility The Hoag Basketball Pavilion will help position the teams for success. By Elizabeth Clemente Summer 2022 print mail Construction planning has begun for the Hoag Basketball Pavilion, a state-of-the-art, 40,000-square-foot practice facility that will be connected to Conte Forum. “It is critical to not only provide the men’s and women’s basketball teams with the appropriate facilities that they need to compete at the highest level,” said outgoing William V. Campbell Director of Athletics Pat Kraft, “but also to provide them with health-and-wellness space.” The Hoag Basketball Pavilion was made possible by a $15 million lead gift, the largest in BC athletics history, from University Trustee Michaela “Mikey” Hoag ’86 and her husband, Jay Hoag. The Hoags said it was important to them to support both basketball programs and “help position them for success for years to come.” Here’s a look at some of the facility’s amenities. Practice space—The crown jewel of the Hoag Basketball Pavilion will be the 10,700-square-foot practice gym. BC basketball players will have access to six courts, including an exact replica of the competition court at Conte Forum. Sports medicine center—This 1,400-square-foot center will house aqua therapy equipment such as underwater treadmills and plunge pools, which can aid in injury rehabilitation and provide a low-impact way to enhance athletic performance. Sports medicine is advancing rapidly, Kraft said, and providing athletes with modern technology was a priority while planning the facility. Nutrition center—Like other athlete-only dining spaces at Conte Forum, the Hoag Basketball Pavilion’s 1,400-square-foot nutrition center will accommodate sports schedules and feed the basketball players when the dining halls might not be open, such as before early morning practices. Study and relaxation areas—To cater to the whole athlete, the facility will also include 2,100-square-foot locker rooms with attached private lounges. A dedicated video room adjacent to the practice gym will give coaches and athletes space for instructions and scouting. More Stories "Who Am I Outside of Volleyball?" Her father left her an athletic legacy, but Jewel Strawberry found her passion off the court. Goal Driven BC hockey star Cayla Barnes and Team USA skated off with silver at the Winter Olympics in Beijing. What’s next? Making Waves in Cancer Research Swim Across America, a nonprofit founded by a BC alum, is the subject of a documentary series. A Farewell to Jerry York After twenty-eight years and four national championships at BC, the legendary hockey coach has retired. Back To Top Back To Top Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College