Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Department of Criminology and Criminal Justice Degree Programs Advising Internships Lambuth News Contact Us Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact Internship Resources For Agencies Request an InternMid-term Agency Evaluation(during 3rd or 4th week)Internship Agency Evaluation (at the end of the placement) For Students Self-Evaluation of Placement Take Action Criminal Justice Student Association Course Offerings Contact Us SUAPP Home Criminal Justice Internships Undergraduate Internships Internship Objectives To assist interns in identifying and strengthening their career-related skills while contributing to the sponsoring agency; To assist interns in clarifying their career option and developing skills and experience to facilitate employment opportunities; To provide opportunities for interns to relate academic and theoretical knowledge to job-related skills and experiences; To facilitate communication and networking between the University of Memphis and the community; To provide university resources to community agencies; To assist in curriculum development and program evaluation. Placement Agency Responsibilities In order to maximize opportunities for placement success, agency intern coordinators should: Meet with the intern early in the semester to establish a mutually agreeable work schedule that will allow the student to complete the required 120 hours. Orient the intern to the agency's specific policies and procedures regarding dress, hours of operation, telephone protocols, and other workplace norms. Remain cognizant that interns are prohibited from being placed in dangerous situations, participating in undercover activities, and transporting clients in their personal or agency vehicle. Provide the intern with the necessary resources and instructions to perform relevant agency tasks appropriate for a BA student's level of expertise. Monitor the intern and provide constructive feedback on their performance. Notify the Undergraduate Internship Coordinator if there are any problems or concerns with your intern by e-mail or by telephone at (901) 678-2737. Complete the on-line Mid-term Agency Evaluation. It is recommended to do this during the third or fourth week of the internship but it can be done sooner or later. The evaluation can be done multiple times if needed. Complete the Internship Agency Evaluation at the end of the internship period. Opportunities Fall 2022 Internship Applications Please note the following requirements to apply for the Internship class: 1. You must be a CJUS major. 2. You must have a minimum 2.8 cumulative GPA and minimum 2.8 major GPA. 3. You cannot have full time employment. ***Any internship schedule conflicts with part time employment will result in the student having to withdraw from the course.*** 4. Seniors (90+ credits hours earned prior to Summer or Fall) are given STRONG preference. 5. You must be able to pass a criminal background check. Applications can be downloaded via this form and are due by April 15. Submit email applications to Mr. Andrew Senter at jasenter@memphis.edu. Late applications will not be considered. If you are accepted into the class, you will be notified by email. All accepted students will have permits issued to enroll in the class when registration opens for the upcoming semester. For more information or for any questions, please contact Mr. Andrew Senter. Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 3/25/22 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.