COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW Alert File your 2022-2023 FAFSA now! The Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) allows you to apply for the full range of possible financial aid programs, including work-study, grants, and loans. Learn more! International Students Section Menu Home Academic College Scholarships Campus Job Opportunities Cultural Ambassador Program International Student Hardship Fund Office of International Education SGA International Student Scholarship Types of Financial Aid WSU Payment Plan Financial Aid Resources for International Students Although financial aid opportunities for international students are limited, there are various resources for funding your education. If you are an international student searching for financial aid assistance, the following information may be helpful. Individuals in the U.S. on only an F1 or F2 student visa, or a J1 or J2 exchange visitor visa, or a G series visa are not eligible for the federal financial aid programs (Free Application for Federal Student Aid/FAFSA) offered through the U.S. Department of Education, but may apply for other types of financial aid. Payment Plan A payment plan is available to assist students in paying tuition through installments. Any student who does not have sufficient funds to pay tuition and fees when payment is due is eligible, if he/she has paid all previous obligations to the university. The payment plan requires an immediate $130 payment with $30 toward a non-refundable setup fee and $100 toward the balance. There are three monthly payments each in the Fall and Spring and two monthly payments in the Summer. Eligible students may apply for the payment plan when payment for current enrollment is due. For more information, contact the Financial Operations office at (316) 978-3333 or in Room 201 of Jardine Hall. For more information online: WSU Payment Plan. Learn about the Payment Plan Academic College Scholarships Wichita State's academic colleges award over $4.2 million of available scholarships annually, and most scholarship support for current/continuing students is provided through the academic colleges. To be considered for these awards, students must apply for these scholarships each year (typically in late fall) through their academic college. Each college has its own application process and deadline. Visit the college web page for information and application instructions. Questions should be directed to the college’s scholarship coordinator. Learn about Academic College Scholarships Graduate Assistantships and Fellowships Each year Wichita State University awards a number of graduate assistantships and fellowships for advanced study. Assistantships are offered in most departments with advanced degrees and are awarded primarily on the basis of a student's academic record and demonstrated teaching, research, and leadership abilities. Applications for assistantships should be mailed directly to the program area where the assistantship is desired. Fellowships are awarded to a limited number of graduate students in good academic standing who are admitted to a program of study leading to a doctoral degree and to certain programs at the master's level. Awards are made primarily on the basis of the academic achievement and potential of the student as a degree candidate. Applications for fellowships should be mailed directly to the program area where the fellowship is desired. Learn about Graduate Awards and Grants Learn about Graduate Assistantships Cultural Ambassador Program Scholarships The Cultural Ambassador Program Scholarship is awarded to international students who show a strong interest and capability in promoting their diverse culture through community programs during an academic year. The scholarships are administered by the Office of International Programs and funded by the Student Government Association. For more information, contact the International Student Advisor Program Coordinator at (316) 978-3232 or click here. Learn about the Cultural Ambassador Program International Student Hardship Fund The purpose of this fund is to provide interim financial support to qualified international students in need of emergency financial assistance to enable them to continue their academic pursuits at Wichita State University. Students must complete an application form and provide an accurate and detailed report of their income and expenses and the nature of their particular hardship. These funds cannot be used as the down payment required to establish a payment plan with Financial Operations for past due balances. Funding for the program is provided and managed by the Student Government Association (SGA). Funding is limited, therefore, awards will be available only for the most extreme hardship cases. The maximum amount of an award to a single student shall not exceed $1,000 and are limited to only one hardship grant per their academic career. International Student Hardship Fund Application SGA International Student Scholarship The SGA International Student Scholarship is provided through the Student Government Association for international students planning to continue their education. Applicants must be full-time undergraduate or graduate students who have completed at least one semester of study at WSU. Awards are based on academic excellence and leadership in on-campus activities/organizations. Each scholarship is for $1,000 per academic year; $500 each semester and can be awarded by semester. Students are notified of their awards in writing. Requirements: Be a full-time undergraduate or graduate International student Have completed at least one semester of study at Wichita State Demonstrate leadership through on-campus involvement Minimum 3.0 cumulative GPA (preferred) May not be a previous recipient as award is limited to one academic year SGA International Student Scholarship Application Employment on Campus International students may apply for open positions on-campus through Career Development Center through Handshake. The student’s visa must designate eligibility to work on-campus while residing in the United States. On-campus employment is not guaranteed. Apply for Campus Jobs through Handshake Additional Resources Alternative Loans International Education Financial Aid: http://www.iefa.org/ Institute of International Education: http://www.iie.org/ The Smart Student Guide to Studying in the USA: http://www.edupass.org/ Hardship Fund Application 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©