Texas Tech University Directory Raiderlink A-Z Index International Affairs Menu Search TTU International Affairs Global Vision Awards The Global Vision Awards is a recognition to Texas Tech faculty and staff who have undertaken extraordinary efforts to expand our global engagement and the university's global image. Established in 2003, the awards show appreciation for each winner's generosity and continued support of Texas Tech's work to become more globally connected. This event generally occurs in April. With the support of offices and the colleges across the University, we have offered more than 50 Global Academic Achievement Scholarships. 2022 Winners Global Vision Award Categories Global Vision Lifetime Achievement Award The Global Vision Lifetime Achievement Award recognizes an individual who has made extraordinary contributions to the internationalization of Texas Tech through his or her many years of leadership in promoting international scholarship and teaching. Student International Research Award The Student International Research Award recognizes international scholarship by a graduate student and is based on the annual Graduate School poster competition. This award is not part of the Review Committee's responsibility. Global Engagement Community Award The Global Engagement Award recognizes an individual or group that has made significant contributions to international understanding and engagement in the greater Lubbock community. Donald R. Haragan Study Abroad Award The Donald R. Haragan Study Abroad Award recognizes the development and implementation of study abroad programs that support Texas Tech's commitment to providing high-quality international education opportunities. Faculty International Scholarship Award The award recognizes a tenure-track faculty member for excellence and sustained international scholarship. Campus Internationalization Award The Campus Internationalization Award recognizes a college, department or office within the Texas Tech University System that has made significant contributions toward internationalization. Previous Winners 2022 Global Vision Lifetime Achievement Award - Dr. John Barkdull, Global Studies The Donald R. Haragan Study Abroad Award - Dr. Eric Fried, J.T. & Margaret Talkington College of Visual and Performing Arts Campus Internationalization Award – TTU K-12 Global Engagement Community Award – Vietnam Center & Sam Johnson Vietnam Archives, and the Institute for Peace & Conflict Faculty International Scholarship Award – Dr. Tigga Kingston, College of Arts & Sciences Global Citizen Award - Dr. William Brustein 2021 Global Vision Lifetime Achievement Award - Tibor Nagy The Donald R. Haragan Study Abroad Award - Dr. Carole Edwards, Classical & Modern Languages & Literatures Campus Internationalization Award – Edward E. Whitaker, Jr. College of Engineering Global Engagement Community Award – Dr. Mark Charney, College of Visual and Performing Arts Faculty International Scholarship Award – Dr. Joe Hodes, Honors College Student International Research Award – Shan Wong 2019 Global Vision Lifetime Achievement Award – Kishore Mehta The Donald R. Haragan Study Abroad Award – Dr. Deborah Fowler, College of Human Sciences Campus Internationalization Award – College of Architecture Global Engagement Community Award – Dr. Stephanie Shine, College of Human Sciences Faculty International Scholarship Award – Dr. Gad Perry, College of Agricultural Science & Natural Resources Student International Research Award – Hyunjung Lee 2018 Global Vision Lifetime Achievement Award – Dr. Jorge A. Ramirez, Law School The Donald R. Haragan Study Abroad Award – Dr. Kuhn Park, College of Architecture Campus Internationalization Award – College of Human Sciences Global Engagement Community Award – Dr. Idris Traylor Faculty International Scholarship Award – Dr. Elizabeth Trejos-Castillo Student International Research Award – Danielle Vaughn and Margaret Vugrin 2017 Global Vision Lifetime Achievement Award – Dr. Michael San Francisco, Honors College The Donald R. Haragan Study Abroad Award – Dr. Idoia Elola, CMLL Campus Internationalization Award – Classical & Modern Languages & Literatures Global Engagement Community Award – Jose S. Ramirez Elementary School, LISD International Baccalaureate World School Faculty International Scholarship Award – Dr. Michael Farmer, Agricultural and Applied Economics Student International Research Award – Keelyn Hanlon, Graduate Student in Department of Animal and Food Sciences 2016 Global Vision Lifetime Achievement Award – Dr. Gary Elbow The Donald R. Haragan Study Abroad Award – Dr. Comfort Pratt Campus Internationalization Award – The College of Agricultural Sciences and Natural Resources Global Engagement Community Award – The Museum of Texas Tech University Faculty International Scholarship Award - Dr. Yuan Shu, English and Comparative Literature Texas Tech International Alumni Award – Mr. James Young, Founder and CEO of Food Concepts International/Abuelo's Mexican Food Restaurants Student International Research Award – Keelyn Hanlon, Graduate Student in Department of Animal and Food Sciences 2015 Global Vision Lifetime Achievement Award – Dr. John Masselli The Donald R. Haragan Study Abroad Award – Dr. Linda Donahue, Department of Theater and Dance Campus Internationalization Award – The Whitacre College of Engineering Global Engagement Community Award - Breedlove Foods, Inc. Faculty International Scholarship Award (first year for this award) - Dr. Paul Paré, Chemistry and Dr. David Weindorf, Agricultural Sciences and Natural Resources Texas Tech International Alumni Award – Dr. Rogelio Carrera, Faculty Member in Mexico Student International Research Award – Cristina Rios-Blanco, Doctoral Student in Biology 2012 Global Vision Lifetime Achievement Award – Dr. Norman Hopper The Donald R. Haragan Study Abroad Award – The Whitacre College of Engineering Study Abroad Awards – Dr. Carole Edwards, John Billing, Catherine Massengale TTU Staff Contribution Award – Financial Aid Office True Grit Award – Dr. Lorum Stratton Global Outreach Award – The College of Visual and Performing Arts Campus Internationalization Award – TTU Graduate School Previous Lifetime Achievement Award Winners 2003 - Dr. Lorum Stratton 2004 - Dr. Frederick Suppe 2005 - Joseph Aranha 2006 - Dr. Michael Shonrock 2007 - Dr. John Barkdull 2008 - Andrew Vernooy, Dean 2009 - Dr. Bob Smith, Provost 2010 - Edward E. Whitacre Jr. College of Engineering 2011 – Dr. Christopher Smith 2012 - Dr. Norman Hopper 2015 - Dr. John Masselli Global Citizen Award Global Citizen Award is presented by Texas Tech University's Office of International Affairs to a distinguished individual who has made significant contribution toward internationalization of higher education. 2021- Dr. Peter McPherson Gil Latz is a leading expert on curricular internationalization and has extensive experience advancing international education, research, and engagement at institutions of higher education. He serves as Ohio State's senior international officer and his work is dedicated to fully integrating international and cross-cultural experiences within the academic units and expanding and enhancing the university's global reach. Prior to his appointment at Ohio State, Latz served as associate vice chancellor for international affairs and professor of geography at Indiana University-Purdue University Indianapolis; and associate vice president for international affairs and affiliated philanthropic studies faculty member at Indiana University. He also was affiliated with Portland State University for 28 years where he held faculty positions in geography and international studies and served as vice provost for international affairs for nine years. Latz's national leadership includes service as senior associate for internationalization, Center for Internationalization and Global Engagement, American Council on Education; president, Association of International Education Administrators; and the executive committee, Association of International Education Administrators. Latz has published widely on internationalization, diversity, community engagement and global learning for all – and how these areas intersect – as well as the internationalization of higher education in the United States and Asia. He earned his PhD and master's degrees in geography from the University of Chicago and his bachelor's degree in religion and English literature from Occidental College, Los Angeles. (Bio prepared in 2022.) 2019- Dr. Montague Demment Montague W. Demment (Tag) is Vice President for International Programs at APLU, former Director of the Global Livestock Collaborative Research Support Program, a program funded by USAID that was focused on research and capacity development, and Professor Emeritus of ecology at the University of California, Davis. In his position at APLU he leads APLU's international programs, has been involved in advocacy for higher education support to developing countries, been instrumental in the creation of APLU's Africa-US Higher Education Initiative and organized the process by which the research community provided input to the USAID's Feed The Future research strategy. Demment has conducted research on nutritional ecology of herbivores and nutrition of children in developing countries. He is past president of AIARD (Association for Agriculture and Rural Development) and chaired then NASULGC's International Agriculture Coordinating Committee that advocates for international issues in agriculture. Demment served as a Peace Corps Volunteer in Ethiopia. Demment earned his B.A. from Harvard and his MS and Ph.D. from the University of Wisconsin-Madison in Zoology and was an NIH postdoctoral fellow in animal nutrition at Cornell. (Bio prepared in 2019.) 2018- Dr. Gil Latz Peter McPherson is president of the Association of Public and Land-Grant Universities (APLU), the nation's oldest higher education association comprised of public research universities, land-grant institutions and state university systems. He is the founding co-chair of the Partnership to Cut Hunger and Poverty in Africa, chair of HarvestPlus and former chair of Dow Jones and Company. McPherson also recently chaired a commission created by Congress to increase the number of students who study abroad. From 1993 to 2004, McPherson served as president of Michigan State University (MSU) where he helped to create the nation's largest international undergraduate study program. In 2003, he served as the director of economic policy for the Coalition Provisional Authority of Iraq, working with the Central Bank, the Ministry of Finance and the banks of the country to reform the Iraqi monetary system. Prior to leading MSU, McPherson held senior executive positions with Bank of America and served as the deputy secretary of the U.S. Treasury Department, focusing on trade, tax and international issues. As administrator of the U.S. Agency for International Development (USAID), McPherson led the U.S. response to the famine in Africa. During that time he also chaired the Overseas Private Investment Corporation. Other positions McPherson has held include partner in an Ohio law firm, general counsel for the Reagan-Bush transition team, special assistant to President Gerald Ford and international taxation specialist at the Internal Revenue Service. McPherson has received the U. S. Presidential Certificate of Outstanding Achievement, the Secretary of State's Distinguished Leadership Award, the Department of Treasury's Alexander Hamilton Award, the UNICEF award for “outstanding contribution to child survival,” the 1983 Humanitarian of the Year award from the American Lebanese League and the Jewish National Fund Tree of Life Award in 1998. (Bio prepared in 2021.) International Affairs Like International Affairs on FacebookLike International Affairs on Facebook Follow International Affairs on twitterFollow International Affairs on twitter Subscribe to International Affairs on YouTubeSubscribe to International Affairs on YouTube Follow International Affairs on FlickrFollow International Affairs on Flickr Follow International Affairs on InstagramFollow International Affairs on Instagram Address 601 Indiana Avenue, Lubbock, TX 79409-5004 Phone 806.742.3667 Email oia.reception@ttu.edu Texas Tech University 2500 Broadway Lubbock, Texas 79409 806.742.2011 Follow Texas Tech University Like Texas Tech University on FacebookLike Texas Tech University on Facebook Follow Texas Tech University on twitterFollow Texas Tech University on twitter Check in with Texas Tech University on FourSquareCheck in with Texas Tech University on FourSquare Subscribe to Texas Tech University on YouTubeSubscribe to Texas Tech University on YouTube Follow Texas Tech University on FlickrFollow Texas Tech University on Flickr Follow Texas Tech University on InstagramFollow Texas Tech University on Instagram Connect with Texas Tech University on LinkedInConnect with Texas Tech University on LinkedIn Contact Texas Tech UniversityContact Texas Tech University Contact Us Campus Map Jobs @ TTU Emergency Communication Center General Policy Information Public Access to Course Info Energy Management Mental Health Resources Title IX Fraud and Misconduct Hotline Online Institutional Resumes TTU System TTU Health Sciences Center TTUHSC El Paso Angelo State University Midwestern State University Statewide Search State of Texas Texas Homeland Security Texas Veterans Portal Texas CREWS SAO Fraud Reporting Open Records Requests © 2022 Texas Tech UniversityApr 21, 2022 9:33 AM International Affairs International Students International Affairs International Students Back Admitted international students International Affairs International Students Admitted international students Back Visa Process Housing Health Insurance Pre-Arrival Guide Post-Arrival Checklist Immigration Information International Affairs International Students Immigration Information Back Immigration and Scam Alerts Make an Appointment F1 - Health Insurance F1 - Travel F1 - Employment Your F-1 Student Counselor Other F-1 Services and Processes OPT STEM OPT CPT J1 - Health Insurance J1 - Travel J1 - Employment J1 - Dependents International Student Life International Affairs International Students International Student Life Back Our Services to Incoming Students International Orientation Life in Lubbock Lubbock housing options Events hosted by ISL Get Involved Advice from current students Financial Aid for International Students Scams Against International Student FAQ's Study Abroad International Faculty, Scholars & Alumni International Affairs International Faculty, Scholars & Alumni Back J-1 Exchange Visitors International Affairs International Faculty, Scholars & Alumni J-1 Exchange Visitors Back J-1 Program Information Hosting Department Information International Scholar Resources Make an Appointment/ISSS International Partnerships/Export Control Insurance Requirements Travel Dependents Help with Taxes International Alumni International Affairs International Faculty, Scholars & Alumni International Alumni Back International Alumni Networks Give to Office of International Affairs Update Contact Information Contact Office of International Affairs Employing International Visitors International Affairs International Faculty, Scholars & Alumni Employing International Visitors Back H-1B Work Visa Information Permanent Residency Information Labor Certification for Non-Teaching Faculty Hosting Department Information Visitor Visas Paying International Visitors Fullbright Scholars & Students Make an Appointment International Scholar Resources J-1 Student Intern Information International Partnerships/Exports Help with Taxes Community Outreach & Events International Affairs Community Outreach & Events Back Community Outreach International Affairs Community Outreach & Events Community Outreach Back Art Exhibits Signature Events K-12 Global Education Outreach International Affairs Community Outreach & Events K-12 Global Education Outreach Back Mission Program Options Program Reservations K-12 Geo FAQ's Pre/Post Activities Give to K-12 ICC Facility Rental International Affairs Community Outreach & Events ICC Facility Rental Back Room Rental Information ICC Rules & Regulations Directions Passport Office International Affairs Community Outreach & Events Passport Office Back Passport Office Information Faculty/Staff Resources International Affairs Faculty/Staff Resources Back Faculty/Staff Resources International Affairs Faculty/Staff Resources Faculty/Staff Resources Back Center for Global Communication International Research and Development International Center for Arid and Semi-Arid Land Studies International Partnerships and Export Control Global Roundup Fulbright International Travel Information International Seed Funding Hosting International Students Scholarships International Affairs Scholarships Back First Year & Transfer Students Continuing Students Study Abroad Students National and International Scholarships & Fellowships About Office International Affairs About Office Back The Office of International Affairs International Affairs About Office The Office of International Affairs Back About Us Vice Provost OIA Services and Contact Information Directory Strategic Plan Organizational Chart OIA Year in Review Visitors Guide Visitors Guide - Español News and Events International Affairs About Office News and Events Back International Digest OIA News OIA Events Recent Newsletter Newsletter Archive Media Gallery International Affairs About Office Media Gallery Back Photos Videos Give to OIA International Affairs About Office Give to OIA Back Appeal from the Vice Provost International Affairs Fund for Excellence International Affairs Student Scholarship OIA Committees International Affairs About Office OIA Committees Back Scholarships International Affairs Council Fulbright Information Special Initiatives International Affairs About Office Special Initiatives Back Global Vision Awards Leadership, Management and Governance Program Texas Tech Costa Rica Campus Texas Tech Global Bridge program Mandela Washington Fellowship Ambassadors Forum Contact Us Additional Resources TTU Home Directory Raiderlink A-Z Index