Skip to main content Skip to primary site menu Skip to primary site search Google Tag Manager Research at Brown Show/Hide Home Conducting Research at Brown Centers, Institutes and Libraries Undergraduate Research Assistance How Do I...? Institutional Biosafety Committee (IBC) Institutional Biosafety Committee (IBC) Review and Human & Animal Research Brown University's IBC evaluates and provides oversight of the use of biohazardous agents to ensure compliance with appropriate regulations and guidelines and to safeguard the health and safety of Brown University personnel, the community, and the environment. In addition, via the Biological Research Authorization form submitted to the IBC, Brown identifies proposed Dual Use Research of Concern (DURC). Please visit Environmental Health & Safety's website for detailed information on the IBC, which is under EHS purview. Some research activities conducted at Brown require dual review by the IBC and other committees, such as the Institutional Animal Care and Use Committee (IACUC) and the Institutional Review Board (IRB). Our goal is to streamline and coordinate dual-review requirements as much as possible in an effort to facilitate the start (and continuation) of Brown research. Questions or requests for additional information specific to IBC regulations should be directed to the Institutional Biosafety Officer (BSO). Human Subject Research Activities that may require IBC Review Animal Subject Research Activities that may require IBC Review Human Subject Research Activities that may require IBC Review IBC oversight also includes human source material, including blood, body fluids, tissues and/or cell lines, infected clinical specimens or biologically contaminated specimens. The following are examples of research with human subjects that require IBC oversight (please note that this list is not exhaustive): Serial blood sampling/processing of human blood during alcohol consumption/smoking studies. Utilizing recombinant DNA to study how viruses attach and move within human cells. Inducing alterations in morphology and gene expression in various human cell line 3D microtissues utilizing various toxins. For Human gene transfer experiments, the IBC is required to provide oversight in accordance with NIH guidelines Section IV-B-2(1), Section I-E, Section III-C, & Appendix M. If you have any plan to begin human gene transfer work, you must contact the IBC prior to submitting a protocol. Animal Subject Research Activities that may require IBC Review IBC approval is required for the use of any agents listed as select agents or biological toxins (42 CFR 73) whether or not they are pathogenic or exempt from NIH federal regulations and regardless of funding source. This also includes any synthetic or recombinant nucleic acid work, including those exempt from NIH guidelines. Brown’s IBC has oversight of biohazardous material used in animal research. Please refer to Environmental Health and Safety Biological Safety website for a complete description of the Categories of Biohazardous Agents. IBC approval must first be received in order for the IACUC to approve any corresponding animal research protocol. Examples of animal research that require IBC oversight (please note that this list is not exhaustive): Utilizing recombinant DNA to study how viruses attach and move within animal cells. Use of bacteria to maintain and propagate expression plasmids. Use of recombinant Cholera toxin B in cerebral tissue of mice. Injection of Candida strains into fish in order to monitor the progression of disease. Conducting Research at Brown Finding Funding Research Strategy and Development (ORSD) Preparing and Submitting a Proposal Managing an Award Sponsored Projects (OSP) Research Compliance (IRB, IACUC, COI, Export Control, Research Data Management and Data Use Agreements) ORI staff directory Research Misconduct Policy Authorship Policy IRB IACUC Export Control Conflict of Interest QA/QI Program DURC ESCRO IBC Research Data Management Brown Technology Innovations Research Administration Information Systems (RAIS) Research Management Support (RMS) Research Agreements and Contracting International Research & Activities Responsible Conduct of Research (RCR) How Do I...? 2022 Research Achievement Award Winners About the Office Newsletter Forms and Policies Training and Outreach Graduate Student Resources Explore Brown University Search Brown Show/Hide Learn More About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life Find A to Z Index People Directory Information for Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Top Destinations Global Brown Watson Institute Graduate School Alpert Medical School School of Public Health School of Engineering Office of the Vice President for Research 350 Eddy Street | Brown University | Box 1937 | Providence, RI 02912 Vice President for Research 401-863-7408 [email protected] Research Strategy and Development 401-863-7999 [email protected] Brown Technology Innovations 401-863-7499 [email protected] Office of Sponsored Projects 401-863-2777 [email protected] Research Administration and Information Systems 401-863-2777 [email protected] Office of Research Integrity 401-863-3050 [email protected] @brownuresearch Giving to Brown Brown University Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-1000 Maps & Directions / Contact Us / Accessibility © 2022 Brown University Connect: [email protected] Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram iTunes U Google+ LinkedIn SnapChat