Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu University Advancement Ways to Give Donor Recognition Your Impact Resources About Us Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact Ways to Give Areas of Need Urgent NeedsScholarshipsColleges, Schools & DepartmentsCampus DevelopmentAthleticsLambuthOpportunity Scholars Program Matching Gifts Naming Opportunities Memorials & Honorarium Annual Giving Planned Giving Faculty & Staff Year-End Gifts Take Action Give Now Support Your College Join the Alumni Association Contact Us Home University Advancement Ways to Give Bruns Scholarship Challenge Bruns Scholarship Challenge Students face many barriers to completing their education, but few so great as affordability. Made possible through a commitment by longtime UofM supporter Mike Bruns, the Bruns Scholarship Challenge Fund's purpose is to help address the issue of affordability and increase the number of students who graduate from the University of Memphis. In 2019, the University of Memphis awarded 1,304 students with scholarships funded by our donors. Our goal is to increase the number of students we support with privately funded scholarships to 2,000 by 2025. To increase the number of scholarships we award to University of Memphis undergraduate students with a demonstrated financial need, donations from eligible new donors who create new endowed scholarships at the University of Memphis, from September 1, 2020, until the $1M challenge is fulfilled, will be matched 1:2 through the Bruns Scholarship Challenge Fund. How the Bruns Scholarship Works You give at least $35,000 to create a new endowed scholarship in your name — or the name of someone you wish to honor or remember — and your gift will be matched 1:2 for a total gift of at least $52,500 and up to $82,500. (Eligible award range is $35,000 - $55,000, which includes $30,000 - $50,000 toward endowment and $1,000/yr. for five years to be awarded immediately.) You may designate your scholarship to the college, school, or academic program of your choice. Scholarships will be for undergraduate students from the Memphis metro area. To ensure the maximum number of students will be eligible to benefit, no further restrictions will be applied. Your gift can be paid over up to five years. Each year, your $1,000 annual payment will be matched with $500 and awarded to a student in need of financial assistance. The rest of your annual payment will go toward building an endowment that will benefit future Tigers. The endowment portion of the match will be applied when your pledge is paid in full. Only two gift matches per household. Example: Jim and Alice create an endowment in the Fogelman College of Business & Economics in memory of Alice’s parents. They commit $55,000, pledged over five years with an annual payment of $11,000. Each year, $10,000 goes to the endowment principal and $1,000 is matched with $500 from the Bruns Challenge Fund and awarded to a deserving student. After their pledge is paid in full, the $50,000 principal is matched with $25,000, for a total endowment of $75,000. Awards will be made from the endowment every year, ensuring that Bill and Alice’s generosity will be felt for generations. For more information, contact Joanna Curtis at jecurtis@memphis.edu or 901-678-5274. Related Stories Longtime UofM supporter Mike Bruns challenges alumni and friends to join him in aiding students with a $1 million scholarship matching fund. Read More > UofM President M. David Rudd and clinical associate professor in child development Dr. Loretta Rudd commit $50,000 to endow the Dr. Karen Weddle-West Completion Scholarship. Read More > The list of scholarships established in response to the Mike Bruns Scholarship Challenge continues to grow, increasing support for UofM students. Read More > Eighteen new scholarships have been established in response to Mike Bruns Scholarship Challenge Fund at the UofM. Read More > Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 4/27/22 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.