Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Rudi E. Scheidt School of Music About Us Admissions Academics Ensembles Faculty Support Events Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact Upcoming Performances Memphis International Guitar Festival March 18-20 Percussion Ensemble Festival April 23 Summer at the Scheidt June Take Action Apply Now Alumni Support Us Scheidt Family Music Center Contact Us Follow the School of Music Online InstagramFacebooktwitterYoutubeLinkedInVimeo Home Music Upcoming Upcoming Events From orchestras and operas, bands and choirs, to jazz and world music ensembles, to world-class faculty and guest performances, the Rudi E. Scheidt School of Music brings hundreds of stunning, free performances to Memphis audiences throughout the academic year. Concert Programs click here > Live Stream click here > COVID-19 Safety click here > &nbsp; Guest Parking Guests attending a performance at The Rudi E. Scheidt School of Music Harris Concert Hall (MU) have multiple parking options. Please view our parking map to plan your visit. General Parking Lot (Lot 44): There is a general parking lot directly across the street from the Music Building, 3775 Central Ave., next to the construction site of the Scheidt Family Music Center. Parking is free after 5 PM Handicap Parking (Lot 43): Enter through the gate entrance between the Art/Communication Building, 3715 Central Ave., and the Theatre Building. Press the call button and a parking services representative will answer. Let them know that you have a disabled plate or decal and need parking access directly behind the Music Building. Enter the side door of the Music Building at the bottom of the outside walkway. Here, you’ll find the main elevator. Innovation Garage (Lot 40): From Central Ave., turn onto Innovation Drive and the Innovation Parking Garage will be on your left. Take an entrance ticket and park towards the far east side of the garage (elevator located on the southeast corner.) The visitor rate for both garages is $3 per hour with a $15 per day maximum. COVID-19 Safety Plan The Rudi E. Scheidt School of Music is delighted to welcome audiences back to Harris Hall. Your safety is important to us. As we gather to enjoy live music, we wanted to share our COVID-19 safety plans: Face Coverings: Face masks are encouraged. Reservations Required: Guests should reserve seats by clicking on the link inside the event description. Seating Capacity: Harris Concert Hall is at full capacity. Contactless Program Option: Guests will be able to access performance digital programs. Limited hard copies will be available at select performances. Live Streaming: All performances will be available live to enjoy from the comfort of your own home. View Live from Harris Hall. We ask students, patrons, faculty and staff to not attend if they or a member of their family is feeling unwell, exhibits symptoms of COVID-19, or has been in close proximity to a confirmed or suspected case of COVID-19. View University of Memphis Coronavirus Updates. Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 3/16/22 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.