Skip to main content Skip to primary site menu Google Tag Manager Search form Search Explore Brown University Search Global Navigation Learn More About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life Find A to Z Index People Directory Information for Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Top Destinations Global Brown Watson Institute Graduate School Alpert Medical School School of Public Health School of Engineering The Harriet W. Sheridan Center for Teaching and Learning Home About Programs & Services Assessment Certificates Consultations Departmental Support English Language Support Fellowships & Awards Grant Support Institutes & Retreats Launch Anchor Problem Solving Course Design Institute Data Science Course Design Institute Seminar for Transformation Around Anti-Racist Teaching Orientations Tutoring Workshops & Roundtables Writing Teaching & Learning Resources Learning Collaborative News & Events Site Navigation Home About Staff Proctors and Head Teaching Consultants Teaching Consultants Sheridan Center Advisory Groups Departmental Liaisons Visit Staff Jobs at the Center Student Jobs at the Center Programs & Services Assessment Departmental Assessment Plans Campus Assessment Projects Assessing and Researching your Teaching Certificates Sheridan Teaching Seminar Course Design Seminar Teaching Consultant Program Head Teaching Consultants Invited Speaker Program Consultations Course Consultations Grant Consultations Teaching Observations Goals and Contexts Early Student Feedback Departmental Support Departmental Assessment Plans Learning Outcomes and Mapping English Language Support English Language Workshops Individual Support Conversation Partners Program English Language Program Fellowships & Awards Provost’s Faculty Teaching Fellows Graduate Student Proctorship in Academic Administration Graduate and Postdoc Teaching Fellows Junior Faculty Teaching Fellows University Awards Grant Support Institutes & Retreats Launch Anchor Problem Solving Course Design Institute Data Science Course Design Institute Seminar for Transformation Around Anti-Racist Teaching Orientations Tutoring Tutoring Supported Courses Summer 2022 Language Courses Apply to be a Tutor People Workshops & Roundtables Teaching Essentials for Graduate TAs Teaching Statements & Portfolios Sheridan-RISD Museum Collaborative Workshop Series Writing [email protected] Past [email protected] Programming Writing Center People Consultations FAQ Opportunities Writing Fellows People Courses English 1190M Outreach Apply Teaching & Learning Resources Teaching Resources Teaching in Times of Disruption Course Design Creating a Syllabus Resources for New Instructors Interpreting Your Course Feedback Evidence-based Practices Establishing Learning Goals Classroom Assessment Entrance and Exit Tickets Sample Exit Tickets Mid-Semester Feedback Guidelines for Assessing Student Learning Grading Criteria & Rubrics Creating Grading Criteria Designing Grading Rubrics Rubrics Criteria Rubrics Scales Enhancing Student Learning with Technology Promoting Study Skills Classroom Practices Learning Contexts First Day(s) of Class Lectures & Large Classes Discussions & Seminars Labs Active Learning Critical Reading Contemplative Pedagogy Promoting Metacognition Teaching with Podcasts Classroom Communication Tips Effective Multimedia Lecture Slides Teaching Problem Solving Writing to Learn Digital Teaching & Learning Working with TAs Teaching Writing Writing Fellows Courses Teaching a WRIT Course A Guide to the Writing Support (WSUP) Flag for Faculty Teaching Statements & Portfolios Mentoring Resources Effective Mentoring Practices Inclusive Teaching Anti-Racist Teaching Definitions Diversity & Inclusion Inclusive Mentoring Learning Collaborative Problem Solving Problem Solving Course Design Institute Problem Solving Fellows Research Writing Writing Across the Curriculum Seminar WAC Participants Writing Fellows People Courses English 1190M Apply Data Science Data Science Course Design Institute Data Science Fellows News & Events Upcoming Events Past Events Newsletter Seminar for Transformation Around Anti-Racist Teaching The Sheridan Center invites applications to a program to support department efforts to advance inclusive diversity in their teaching, learning, and curriculum development. In this Seminar, three-person department change teams -- consisting of a lead faculty member, a graduate student, and an undergraduate, for example -- will meet over several months to engage with topics such as: How can we become more equitable, inclusive instructors ourselves? How can we build equitable, anti-racist teaching and learning spaces? What are ways to support peers and colleagues in advancing departmental change? How do we know we have been effective at this work? This program will be co-facilitated by Brown faculty members (Monica Linden, Neuroscience; Patricia Sobral, POBS; Jim Valles, Physics) and Sheridan staff (Eric Kaldor; Stacey Lawrence; Mary Wright). Through the Seminar for Transformation around Anti-Racist Teaching (START) program, teams will: Examine their own positionalities as instructors and learners. Engage in core concepts and frameworks in inclusive and anti-racist teaching and academic change work -- e.g., definitions of concepts, evidence-based frameworks, theories of change, navigating buy-in and resistance, sustainability. Enhance the syllabus and learning activities for a course taught by a faculty team member (to be taught AY22-23), to enhance equity and students’ sense of belonging. While existing course re-designs are encouraged (or a significant module/unit within a course), this could be a new course. Foundational courses (i.e., introductory courses) are particularly encouraged, but all courses are welcome. Collaborate with departmental leadership and department's DIAP committee to identify a feasible change project that the team would carry out collaboratively. Examples of potential projects include: establishment of a workshop series facilitated by change team members development of an intergenerational learning community facilitation in a curriculum mapping exercise to understand how DIAP-related topics are introduced, practiced, and reinforced throughout the department’s academic plan. Commitment: Synchronous meeting times are listed below, and we ask that START Fellows commit to attending these meetings on the program application. We also ask that teams schedule a second meeting each month (at a time of their choosing) to carry out the work of the project. Estimated meeting time for the Spring Term is 20 hours but, of course, this will vary by project and team members. January 2022 Institute: How can we become more equitable, inclusive instructors ourselves? How can we build equitable, anti-racist teaching and learning spaces? Tuesday, January 18, 10:00 AM - Noon and 1:00 - 2:00 PM (via Zoom) Thursday, January 20, 10:00 AM - Noon and 1:00 - 2:00 PM (via Zoom) Spring Term 2022: How can we build equitable, anti-racist teaching and learning spaces? (continued) Tuesday, February 8, 2:00 – 4:00 PM Tuesday, March 8, 2:00 – 4:00 PM What are ways to support peers and colleagues in advancing departmental change? Tuesday, April 12, 2:00 - 4:00 PM Tuesday, May 3, 2:00 - 4:00 PM For assessment of the program, we would also request that team members give feedback on key outcomes of their participation and suggested improvements. This information will be outlined in full to program participants, but may include brief surveys, interviews, and examinations of project products and outcomes (e.g., syllabi, re-designed curricular pathways). Benefits and Outcomes: Beyond the benefits to the department, this Seminar offers the following to individual participants, as START Fellows: Each faculty or graduate student member of the change team will receive a research stipend (faculty) or award (graduate student) at the amount of $1,000, paid at the end of the Spring Term 2022. Payable as a stipend or award, the expectation would be that these funds would be used at the discretion of the team, to (partially or fully) carry out the change project and fund any personalized professional development needed. If parts of projects focus on anti-Black racism, the university also offers additional seed funding beyond what this project provides. For each team, the Sheridan Center will make an award to an undergraduate of $1475 for work conducted during the the January Institute and Spring Term. (University guidelines for UTA work, such as the weekly hourly limit, should be followed.) The undergraduate must be eligible to be employed by the university as a student worker (e.g., enrolled in Spring Term 2022). SPRINT funding from the College may also be available over Summer 2022. For questions, please contact [email protected]. Application: Applications are due on Friday, October 15. Please submit one application per team, as an attachment to [email protected]. A complete application includes brief responses to questions 1-6, plus a letter as described in item #7: Names and contact information for up to three team members, as well as a brief (1-2 lines) rationale for their inclusion on the team. At least one team member should be a faculty member who will be teaching the new/revised course. If the new/revised course is primarily an undergraduate-level course, at least one team member should be an undergraduate. Please acknowledge commitment to the program expectations named above. In what Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion-related work, in relation to teaching and learning, have proposed team members already engaged? What are preliminary ideas of outcomes your team will be trying to achieve, through participation in the group? What assets do team members bring to this community? (In other words, are there resources or knowledge areas that you would be willing to share to build our collective expertise?) Is there anything else that would be helpful to know about team members to ensure your full inclusion in this initiative? Please upload a brief letter of support, co-signed by the DDIAP Committee Chair and department chair (if not serving as a team member). The chair's letter should express a commitment to offering the revised or new course in AY22-23. Up to 6-8 teams will be selected (depending on team size), and teams will be notified in early November. Applications will be reviewed based on the following criteria: Disciplinary diversity Demonstrated need and commitment to the work, e.g., well-articulated rationale for engaging in the program and department’s opportunity for participation in this work Commitment from the department chair and DDIAP Committee chair Mindfulness about equity of DEI work allocation in the department Clarity in application about potential for team cohesion (e.g., past history of engagement together) to derive and sustain the benefits of the work Preference will be given to teams that address a foundational course with an undergraduate team member Programs & Services Institutes & Retreats Launch Anchor Problem Solving Course Design Institute Data Science Course Design Institute Seminar for Transformation Around Anti-Racist Teaching Assessment Certificates Consultations Departmental Support English Language Support Fellowships & Awards Grant Support Orientations Tutoring Workshops & Roundtables Writing The Sheridan Center The Sheridan Center Brown University Box 1912 Sciences Library 201 Thayer Street, 7th Floor Providence, RI 02912 Phone: 401-863-1219 Fax: 401-863-6976 Email [email protected] Facebook Facebook Brown University Giving to Brown Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA 401-863-1000 Contact Us Maps Directions Career Opportunities Campus Safety Accessibility All Social Media © 2022 Brown University | Back to top