Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Department of Philosophy Undergraduate Graduate People Research News & Events Resources Contact Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact People Core Faculty Visiting Scholars Instructors Emeritus Faculty Graduate Students Staff Take Action Apply to the Graduate Program Online B.A. 3+3 Accelerated BA/JD Program Minor in Legal Thought and Liberal Arts Support the Department Follow Us Online Facebook Home Philosophy People Timothy Roche Timothy Roche Associate Professor & Director of Graduate Studies Phone 901.678.3355 Email troche@memphis.edu Fax 901.678.4365 Office 321 Clement Hall Office Hours By appointment About Professor Roche Professor Roche (PhD University of California, Davis), joined the faculty at Memphis in 1985. His teaching and research interests include Greek and Roman Philosophy, History of Moral Philosophy, and Ethical Theory. His essays have appeared in such collections and journals as The Cambridge Companion to Aristotle's Nicomachean Ethics, Aristote. Traductions et Études, Phronesis, Ancient Philosophy, Journal of the History of Philosophy, Proceedings of the Boston Area Colloquium in Ancient Philosophy, The Philosophical Review, and Mind. His recent undergraduate courses include Aristotle's Politics, Plato and Aristotle on the Soul, The Presocratics, and Stoic Ethics. Recent PhD Seminars include Ancient and Modern Conceptions of Well-Being, Aristotle's Metaphysics, Plato's Later Metaphysics and Epistemology: Theatetus, Sophist, Statesman, and Plato's Political Philosophy. Professor Roche is currently completing a book entitled Aristotle's Nicomachean Conception of Happiness. He is also completing, or has under review, various essays, including "The Alleged Distinction Between Makariotēs and Eudaimonia in Aristotle's Nicomachean Ethics: Happiness, the Goods of Fortune, and Solon's Maxim," "The Ugly, the Lonely, and the Lowly: Reply to Professor Cashen on Aristotle's Discussions of Eudaimonia and Ta Ektos Agatha," and "Agathoi and Kalokagathoi in Aristotle's Eudemian Ethics." Selected Publications Books Ancient Ethics and Political Philosophy (editor) The Southern Journal of Philosophy Spindel Conference Supplement 43 (2005). Articles published "The Private Moral Life of Aristotle's Philosopher: A Defense of a Non-Intellectualist Interpretation of Nicomachean Ethics 10.7-8." In Contemplation in Aristotle's Ethics (a volume of the series Aristote. Traductions et Études), Pierre Destrée and M. Zingano, eds. Leuven: Peeters (2014) 207-239. "Happiness and the External Goods." In The Cambridge Companion to Aristotle's Nicomachean Ethics, ed. Ronald Polansky. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press (2014) 34-63. "Happiness and Agency in the Stoics and Aristotle: Commentary on Russell." In Proceedings of the Boston Area Colloquium in Ancient Philosophy, XXIV, John J. Cleary and Gary M. Gurtler, S.J., eds. Leiden/Boston: Brill (2009) 112-125. "The Ultimate End of Action: A Critique of Richard Kraut's Aristotle on the Human Good," in M. Sim, ed., Crossroads of Norm and Nature: Essays on Aristotle's Ethics and Metaphysics, Rowman & Littlefield Publishers, Inc. (1995) 115-138. "In Defense of an Alternative View of the Foundation of Aristotle's Moral Theory," Phronesis 37 (1992) 46-84. "Ergon and Eudaimonia in Nicomachean Ethics I: Reconsidering the Intellectualist Interpretation," Journal of the History of Philosophy 26 (1988) 175-194. Book reviews Anthony Kenny, Aristotle on the Perfect Life, in Mind 103 (1994) 202-208. Richard Kraut, Aristotle on the Human Good, in The Philosophical Review, 101 (1992) 629-633. Invited Presentations "Embodied Virtue in the Phaedo: Reply to Douglass Reed," APA Central Division Meeting, St. Louis, February 20, 2015. "Audience Psychology and Censorship in Plato's Republic: Reply to Professor Jansen," University of South Florida, Tampa, Florida: Fourteenth Annual Ancient Philosophy Society Meeting, April 25, 2014. "Aristotle's 'Good' Spartans" (with Daniel Larkin), Southern Illinois University, Carbondale, Illinois: Twenty-second Annual Philosophical Collaborations Conference, March 20, 2014. "Aristotle on Courage," Ave Maria University, Ave Maria, Florida: Workshop on Aristotle's Nicomachean Ethics iii.6-12, February 27 – March 2, 2014. "Aristotle on Pleasure," Université catholique de Louvain, Louvain-la-Neuve, Belgium, February 14-15, 2013. "Aristotle on Happiness and Ta Ektos Agatha," for Classics Week, Mississippi State University, October, 12, 2012. "The Private Moral Life of Aristotle's Philosopher: A Defense of a Non-Intellectualist Interpretation of Nicomachean Ethics 10. 7-8," for the Philosophy and Religion Forum, University of Mississippi, October 10, 2008. "The Sufficiency Debate Between the Stoics and the Aristotelians: Comments on Russell," for the Boston Area Colloquium in Ancient Philosophy, College of the Holy Cross, November 2007. "Politics and Philosophy in Aristotle's Moral Philosophy and Politics: Towards a Solution to Two Puzzles in Aristotle's Moral/Political Thought," for the XI International Symposium of Philosophy (The Political Theories of Plato and Aristotle), Pyrgos, Greece, 2000. Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 1/30/22 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.