Skip to main content Visit Harvard.edu Covid-19 Information Keep Harvard Healthy Travel Guidance Keep Harvard Healthy Campus Access For Students For Faculty, Staff, and Researchers For Visitors School & Program Information Event Guidance Health & Wellbeing Testing & Tracing Results Dashboard Weekly Test History Understanding Test Results Exposure, Quarantine, & Isolation Travel Guidance Post-Travel COVID Testing Policy Vaccine Information Verify Your Vaccination & Booster Updates & Messages FAQs Keep Harvard Healthy Campus Access For Students For Faculty, Staff, and Researchers For Visitors School & Program Information Event Guidance Health & Wellbeing Testing & Tracing Results Dashboard Weekly Test History Understanding Test Results Exposure, Quarantine, & Isolation Travel Guidance Post-Travel COVID Testing Policy Vaccine Information Verify Your Vaccination & Booster Updates & Messages FAQs The University is committed to facilitating travel under safe conditions. Our on-campus community’s high vaccination rate—combined with increasing global vaccination rates and mitigation measures like masking, testing, and government-mandated quarantines and proof of vaccination—significantly reduce the risk of infection. Travel still poses risks, however, and individuals should take appropriate precautions before deciding to travel domestically or internationally. All Harvard affiliates must adhere to the COVID-19 travel requirements (see below) before, during, and after travel, as well as any applicable School or Unit policies. If you’re planning Harvard-related travel, do your research to determine if your trip is feasible, have contingency plans, and be prepared for the possibility of disruptions. Increased transmission, the emergence of new variants, and implementation of border restrictions on short notice may continue to affect your travels. Note: The guidance on this page applies to Harvard-related travel. It does not apply to personal travel or to affiliates traveling inbound to the Cambridge/Boston area for approved work or for moving into or out of on-campus housing. If you travel for personal reasons, review Harvard’s post-travel COVID testing policy. COVID-19 Travel Requirements Before travel: If your destination requires a formal report of negative COVID test: Get tested using a Color PCR test or arrange for a pre-travel test at a healthcare facility (be sure to assess the required timeline and plan accordingly – Color tests are not processed on weekends/holidays). HUHS cannot provide a monitored antigen or PCR test for travel. If you use Color, be sure to bring a copy of your official clinical report documenting a negative test, by scrolling down on the results page and clicking “Download your complete clinical report”. All: Review Global Support Services’ advice for developing a safe travel plan amid the COVID-19 pandemic, and register your international travel with International SOS. All students traveling internationally: Complete the student pre-departure requirements. All students traveling within the US: Submit a completed domestic travel waiver to the Harvard office, department, or trip leader overseeing your activity. During travel: All: Follow local health and safety guidelines (which may change regularly), including vaccination, testing, masking, and quarantine requirements, hand washing/sanitizing, and physical distancing. All: Keep your international travel plans updated with International SOS. After travel: If returning to the United States: Comply with the CDC Travel Requirements. If returning to Massachusetts: Comply with the Massachusetts Travel Information. If returning to Harvard’s campus: Adhere to Harvard’s Post-Travel COVID Testing Policy. If returning elsewhere: Follow the guidelines provided by your local jurisdiction. If filing reimbursement requests: Submit the required documentation. Travel Advice Review Harvard Global Support Services’ advice and considerations for developing a safe travel plan during the COVID-19 pandemic. GSS travel advice Travel Booking, Cancellation, & Reimbursement If your travel is paid for by Harvard, consider using one of Harvard’s preferred travel agencies to book your trip. Use of a preferred agency will automatically register your trip with International SOS. If you do not use a preferred agency, you will need to register your trip with International SOS. When submitting your travel reimbursement request, include your International SOS registration confirmation email. If you had travel reservations for University business, the Harvard Travel Policy allows for reimbursement of cancellation or change fees due to a valid business reason. The policy also allows the purchase of refundable tickets when there is a high likelihood that the itinerary may change and when budget and policy allow. Harvard Travel Services website CDC International Travel Requirements Testing and vaccination requirements to enter the United States vary depending on where you are traveling from and whether you are a US citizen, US national, Lawful Permanent Resident, Immigrant, or Non-Immigrant. CDC international travel requirements CDC Domestic Travel Guidance The CDC advises delaying travel until you are up to date with your COVID-19 vaccines. If you are not up to date and must travel, follow the CDC’s recommendations. CDC domestic travel guidance Massachusetts Travel Information If you are fully vaccinated, you can resume pre-pandemic activities including travel within the United States. Massachusetts travel information Return to Campus Requirements If you’ve chosen to travel, you must comply with Harvard’s post-travel COVID testing requirements upon your return to campus. Harvard’s post-travel testing policy Security & Brand Report Copyright Infringement Report Security Issue Trademark Notice Website Accessibility Digital Accessibility Privacy Statement Get In Touch Contact Harvard Maps & Directions Jobs © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube