Skip to content Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Search Faculty & Staff Apply Visit Request Info Academics Undergraduate Study Graduate Study Certificates of Advanced Study Maxwell-in-Washington Non-Degree Programs and Short-Format Courses Workplace Training Departments Admission & Financial Aid Undergraduate Admission & Financial Aid Graduate Admission & Financial Aid Non-Degree Program Admission Research Centers & Institutes Faculty Books Research News Research Support Services News Events Calendar About School Leadership Partnerships Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Search Faculty & Staff Apply Visit Request Info Search Research > Maxwell X Lab Putting Policy to the Test. Maxwell X Lab The Maxwell X Lab partners with the public and nonprofit sectors to build evidence for what works. We leverage behavioral science and randomized controlled trials (RCT) to intelligently design and rigorously evaluate everything we do. Together, these powerful techniques allow practitioners to work with the Maxwell School to improve outcomes cost-effectively and understand the precise impact of each change. Research Maxwell X Lab Projects & Reports Walters Fund People Featured Projects View all X Lab Projects Hennepin County, MN SNAP The Maxwell X Lab partnered with the University of Minnesota and the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) to test behavioral interventions designed to increase the likelihood that SNAP recipients recertify on-time in Hennepin County, Minnesota. New York Opioid Court Treatment Enhancement Project We are partnering with the Lerner Center for Public Health Promotion and the U.S. Department of Justice, Bureau of Justice Assistance, to evaluate substance abuse treatment and recovery support service systems treating individuals with opioid use disorders (OUD), participating in 10 geographically diverse opioid courts in the state of New York. Glimmerglass Festival Breaking Glass is a five-episode podcast that offers the Glimmerglass audience insight into how opera can connect to contemporary issues and diverse audiences. Our experiment tested how listening to Breaking Glass changes preferences on opera and performing arts and supports diversity. Read the report The Maxwell X Lab Approach Randomized Controlled Trials (RCTs) When some people are randomly assigned to get business-as-usual and others to get a new intervention, we can attribute any differences in outcomes to what we did and not some unknown factor or chance. Behavioral Science As humans, we fail to show up and follow through on many of our best-laid plans because seemingly irrelevant factors can bias our behavior. Fortunately, we can improve outcomes by accounting for when these biases could occur and designing around them. View our projects Request for Proposals Maxwell X Lab seeks government and nonprofit agency partners to develop innovative interventions through the Walters Community Partnership Fund. You are invited to submit a proposal to collaborate with the Maxwell X Lab to generate an intervention and then to evaluate the success of that intervention. Learn more Helping Syracuse thrive Lia Chabot arrived at Syracuse University with a passion for economics and graduated with two degrees—and the Chancellor's Award for Public Engagement—that reflect her academic and research prowess, compassion, and commitment to activism. Working with the City of Syracuse Department of Neighborhood and Business Development and the Maxwell X Lab, Chabot's data analysis revealed potential mortgage fraud that resulted in litigation. Read more Support student research Public Policy and COVID-19: Managing the Pandemic's Impact on the Economy Hear X Lab director Leonard Lopoo speak about how the X Lab can help fill the knowledge gap of understanding what the impact—positive or negative—is of innovations in managing the economic consequences of the COVID-19 pandemic through the use of randomized control trials and behavioral science. Follow us on Twitter @MaxwellXLab View our Twitter page Center for Policy Research The Maxwell X Lab is a program of the Center for Policy Research, where experts from diverse fields explore policy issues through a range of different disciplinary lenses—primarily economics, public administration, political science and sociology. Go to the CPR website Maxwell X Lab Projects In Action View all X Lab projects Promotions & Appointments Apr 21, 2022 Lopoo Joins National Panel Examining Behavioral Economics Promotions & Appointments Journal Article Apr 12, 2022 Material Hardship and the Living Arrangements of Older Adults Health, Aging & Life Course, Disability , Social Welfare, Poverty & Income Security , Food Insecurity , Elderly Report Feb 28, 2022 Help Me Grow Follow Up Texting Intervention Journal Article Dec 1, 2021 The Effect of EITC Exposure in Childhood on Marriage and Early Childbearing Social Policy (Aging, Education, Health, Welfare) , Marriage , Taxes Follow us on Twitter Submit a Project Proposal Support Maxwell X Lab Maxwell X Lab 426 Eggers Hall xlab@syr.edu 315.443.5765 Maxwell Quick Links: Answers Undergraduate Advising Graduate Career Advising Support Maxwell Alumni Relations Maxwell Computing Support Maxwell School of Citizenship and Public Affairs 200 Eggers Hall Syracuse, NY 13244-1020 315.443.2252 Academic Calendar Accessibility Emergencies Maps & Directions MySlice Privacy Syracuse U © Syracuse University. Knowledge crowns those who seek her.