Skip to main content Skip to main navigation Student Life Menu About A Message from the Vice President Office of the Vice President Leadership Kevin P. Jackson, Ph.D. Sharra Hynes Jim Marsh Elizabeth D. Palacios Burt Burleson Office of the VP Staff Zach Mills Sandra Northern Janet Green Tom Barnard Strategic Plan 2020-21 Student Life Annual Report Student Life Spotlight Student Engagement Student Activities Campus Living (Housing) New Student Programs Student Conduct Administration Ombuds to Students Student Foundation Fraternity and Sorority Life Spiritual Life Worship Baptist Student Ministries Missions Pastoral Care Community & Culture Multicultural Affairs Diversity at Baylor Student Health & Wellness Campus Recreation Counseling Services Health Services Wellness Care Team 24/7 Care (Tele-Health) Resources Follow Us on Social Media Student Life YouTube What's New BU What's New BU Submission What's New BU Archive WNBU Submission Guidelines Off Campus Housing HESA Program Ombuds to Students Statement on Hazing GameDay for Students We're Hiring Make a Gift Baylor>Student Life>About>A Message from the Vice President A Message from the Vice President The Student Life experience at Baylor University is dynamic and diverse. With more than 17,000 students from 80+ different countries and all 50 states, our community represents a beautiful mosaic of ideas, experiences, cultures, and aspirations. Central to our mission is the ideal that we are on a transformational journey—one focused on the renewing of our mind, body, and soul. To this end, the Division of Student Life strives to meet each student where she or he is so that we can walk alongside them during their time at Baylor helping each one become more and more the person God has designed them to be. It is an exciting journey with no one student’s experiences being exactly like another’s. Therefore, our approach varies as we seek to offer advice, counsel, encouragement, spiritual guidance, and a comprehensive set of services, programs, and experiences that helps students learn, grow, and develop to their fullest potential. It is my pleasure to serve with such a dedicated faculty, talented staff, and inspirational student body. My best and Sic’em Bears! Kevin P. Jackson, Ph.D. Vice President of Student Life Baylor Student Life Our mission is to advance the University's mission to educate men and women for worldwide leadership and service by integrating academic excellence and Christian commitment within a caring community, and we do so by enriching the Baylor experience through life-changing programs and services resulting in an integrated education known for leadership, service, Christian faith, and the total development of students. We do so with a particular focus on students’ intellectual curiosity, relational integrity, and spiritual maturity. The Baylor experience not only prepares students for successful careers, it prepares students to excel in life. Helping students transition successfully to the Baylor community is a cherished University tradition in which Student Life takes the lead. It begins with New Student Orientation, followed by Line Camp for many, and reaches a crescendo with Move In and Welcome Week all occurring prior to the first day of classes for our newest Baylor Bears. Over 3,000 volunteers, most of whom are students, staff, and faculty, assist with these transitional experiences. Throughout the year, students engage in enriching experiences designed to help them learn more about themselves, others, and the world in which they live. Traditional events such as Homecoming, All University Sing, StompFest, and Diadeloso serve as a centerpiece around which other programs and activities, most of which are student-led, occur. Central to these experiences is the desire to a build a vibrant Christian community that cares deeply for and strives to bring out the best in one another. Investment in these experiences, and the students who plan them, fosters opportunities to develop leadership skills, lasting friendships, and a deep affinity to Baylor University. About A Message from the Vice President Office of the Vice President Leadership Kevin P. Jackson, Ph.D. Sharra Hynes Jim Marsh Elizabeth D. Palacios Burt Burleson Office of the VP Staff Zach Mills Sandra Northern Janet Green Tom Barnard Strategic Plan 2020-21 Student Life Annual Report Student Life Spotlight Division of Student Life McLane Student Life Center One Bear Place #97016 Waco, TX 76798-7016 (254) 710-1314 StudentLife@baylor.edu EventsGiveNewsletter General Information Colleges, Schools, Libraries & Research Admissions Administration Gateways For... About Baylor Anonymous Reporting Athletics Ask Baylor Bookstore Calendar Campus Map Directory Give Light Give to Baylor Illuminate Mental Health Resources News Pro Futuris Report It Search Social Media Title IX Baylor Libraries College of Arts & Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work George W. Truett Theological Seminary Graduate School Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Louise Herrington School of Nursing Research at Baylor University Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Engineering & Computer Science School of Music More Academics Undergraduate Admissions goBAYLOR Graduate Admissions Baylor Law School Admissions Social Work Graduate Programs George W. Truett Theological Seminary Admissions Online Graduate Professional Education Virtual Tour Visit Campus Annual Fire Safety and Security Notice Athletics Human Resources Marketing and Communications Office of General Counsel Office of the President Office of the Provost Operations, Finance & Administration Senior Administration Student Life University Advancement Baylor Alumni Faculty & Staff Online Graduate Professional Education Parents Prospective Faculty & Staff Prospective Students Students Copyright © Baylor® University. All rights reserved. Legal Disclosures. Baylor University • Waco, Texas 76798 • 1-800-229-5678 About A Message from the Vice President Office of the Vice President Leadership Kevin P. Jackson, Ph.D. Sharra Hynes Jim Marsh Elizabeth D. Palacios Burt Burleson Office of the VP Staff Zach Mills Sandra Northern Janet Green Tom Barnard Strategic Plan 2020-21 Student Life Annual Report Student Life Spotlight Student Engagement Student Activities Campus Living (Housing) New Student Programs Student Conduct Administration Ombuds to Students Student Foundation Fraternity and Sorority Life Spiritual Life Worship Baptist Student Ministries Missions Pastoral Care Community & Culture Multicultural Affairs Diversity at Baylor Student Health & Wellness Campus Recreation Counseling Services Health Services Wellness Care Team 24/7 Care (Tele-Health) Resources Follow Us on Social Media Student Life YouTube What's New BU What's New BU Submission What's New BU Archive WNBU Submission Guidelines Off Campus Housing HESA Program Ombuds to Students Statement on Hazing GameDay for Students We're Hiring Make a Gift