Professional Development - University of Houston Skip to main content Restrict my search to Online Education Submit Close Login to AccessUH Give to UH Search Online & Special Programs About About Us Contact Us State Authorization UH System Online Degree Programs Online Programs Undergraduate Degrees Graduate Degrees Hybrid Programs UH Extend Programs Online Minors UH Sessions FAQs Sessions Calendar Summer Sessions Calendar Fall Sessions Calendar Class Search Online Professional Development Professional Training Certificate Programs MOOCS Students Prospective Students Student Types Admissions Cost Online Success Student Resources Current Students Student Resources Online Success Remote Learning Proctoring Services Proctoring Request Form Instructors Class Search Syllabus Search Request Info New Online IT Bootcamp Training Courses PROFESSIONAL DEVELOPMENT University of Houston’s Online & Special Programs is a learning gateway for students who want the flexibility to pursue their academic interests online from the comfort of their own home and at their convenience. You can choose from a variety of programs designed to fit your schedule and enhance your professional development. Ready to learn more about OSP's special program course offerings? Our professional training courses and MOOCs do not require admission to the University. These special programs can be started at any time and can be taken in a self-paced format. Courses do not count for college credit. Our online undergraduate and graduate certificate programs do require admission to the University. Courses are semester-based, meaning there is a specified start date and end date to the course and there are assignments due at specific times throughout the semester. It is important to access your online site on a regular basis to meet course requirements. ^ Spring 2022 Course Catalog PROFESSIONAL TRAINING Engaging courses on hundreds of topics to help you advance your professional goals. View Programs CERTIFICATE PROGRAMS Upgrade your skills and qualifications in professional fields. View Programs MOOCs Free self-directed opportunities for professional development. View Programs University of Houston Houston, Texas 77204 (713) 743-2255 A–Z Index Academic Calendar Campus Carry Policy Campus Map Career Opportunities Directory Emergency Information Get Help Human Resources Library Mental Health Resources Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Office of the President Parking Report Copyright Infringement Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness Open Records/Public Information Act Texas Veterans Portal Tuition & Fees UH System Virtual Tour ©2022 University of Houston. All rights reserved. Report a problem with this page Texas.gov Texas Homeland Security TRAIL Fraud Reporting Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Linking Notice Privacy Notice Open Records/Public Information Act Institutional Résumé Required Reports Electronic & Information Resources Accessibility Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness University Policies