Skip to main content Skip to main content Give Give Schedule a Visit Lyle Visit SMU Tour Follow Us Follow Us Twitter Follow Us Facebook Follow Us Instagram Follow Us LinkedIn Follow Us YouTube Follow Us Social Stream Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. Navigate Search Skip to main content Lyle Home Academics Academics Departments Advising Multidisciplinary Programs Distance Education Undergraduate Degree Programs Graduate Studies Research Research Research Opportunities Contact Us Centers & Institutes Centers & Institutes Hart Center Caruth Institute Hunt Institute Darwin Deason Institute Apply Now Apply Now Visit Lyle Undergraduate Admissions Graduate Admissions Resources FAQ's Connect with Us Alumni Alumni Lifelong Learning Alumni Program Support Lyle Industry Mentor Program Recruiting at Lyle Cox & Lyle Red Zone Tailgate on the Boulevard About Lyle About Lyle Our Namesake: Bobby B. Lyle Mission Statement Message from the Dean Dean's Office Faculty Directory 9 Things Every Lyle Student Should Know Job Opportunities Support Lyle Get in Touch ☰ Apply to Lyle Lyle Home Apply to Lyle Undergraduate Admissions Undergraduate Admissions At SMU, we consider the total profile of a student that balances achievement in a variety of areas, not just test scores. We consider the quality of your high school curriculum and whether you elected to take more challenging courses. Work experience counts too! We look for creativity, leadership and community involvement. In short, we seek academically-able students who possess a variety of skills, talents, perspectives and life experiences. Earn a degree from the Lyle School of Engineering and gain a competitive edge. Apply to SMU Lyle Undergraduate Academic Departments Accelerated Pathways Undergraduate FAQs Undergraduate Admissions Apply to SMU First-Year Admission Transfer Admission Lyle Undergraduate Academic Departments Accelerated Pathways Undergraduate FAQs School Cox School of Business Dedman College of Humanities and Sciences Dedman School of Law Lyle School of Engineering Meadows School of the Arts Moody School of Graduate and Advanced Studies Perkins School of Theology Simmons School of Education and Human Development Campus Reporting a Bias Incident Report Sexual Misconduct Emergency Preparedness Student Life George W. Bush Presidential Center SMU Libraries Meadows Museum Tate Lecture Series Contact Us Maps and Directions Legal Disclosures © Southern Methodist University, PO Box 750100, Dallas, TX 75275 twitter facebook instagram linkedin youtube search-plus