Skip to content Cornell University Search toggle menu close About Cornell About Cornell Overview University Facts Maps & Directions Mission & Vision Core Values Locations Ithaca New York City Related Links Diversity Indigenous Engagement Economic Impact Sustainability Global Cornell Leadership Admissions Overview Undergraduate Apply Admissions Dates and Deadlines Costs and Aid Graduate Admissions Fields of Study Financial Support Continuing Education & Summer Sessions Summer Sessions Winter Sessions Part-time Study Academics Academics Overview Fields of Study Colleges & Schools Departments Library Continuing Education Related Links Office of the Provost Academic Calendar Course Catalog Global Learning Learning Goals Research Overview Explore Cornell Research Extreme Talent. Radical Collaboration. Results That Matter. Related Links Vice President for Research and Innovation Centers & Institutes Technology Licensing (CTL) Graduate Research Undergraduate Research OVPRI Research Publications Public Engagement Overview Featured CCE helps Buffalo get school food truck rolling Related Links Cornell Cooperative Extension Engaged Cornell Hub Land Grant to New York State New York State Impact Life at Cornell Life at Cornell Overview Athletics & Recreation Arts & Culture Health & Safety Live, Work, Travel Student Life Related Links Find Your Networks Center for First-Year Students Clubs & Student Groups More Toggle navigation Apply Undergraduate Graduate Visit Give Students Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Search Search Overview Athletics & Recreation Arts & Culture Health & Safety Live, Work, Travel Student Life Life at Cornell: Something for Everyone Collaborating and Innovating From the moment you choose Cornell, you join the more than 250,000 members of the Big Red family — students, faculty, staff and alumni — representing our institution with pride. We are a diverse community of scholars who work, teach and engage in every corner of the world. Collectively we’re focused on creating knowledge for the public good, an ideal rooted in our identity as a private, endowed research university and the land-grant institution for New York state. We don’t just identify problems; we work to find and test solutions to our world’s greatest challenges. Athletics & Recreation Arts & Culture Health & Safety Live, Work, Travel Student Life Your browser does not support this video. Living and Learning An open, collaborative and innovative environment where faculty, staff and students thrive as individuals and as a community. With deep academic roots in Ithaca, N.Y., and an expanding presence in New York City, Cornellians have unparalleled opportunities for learning and engagement in a close-knit town, a global city and communities across the state. In every Cornell location, a spirit of inquiry binds our community together and compels us to engage with — and learn from — the people and places that surround us. Arts and culture Johnson Museum of Art The Museum's permanent collection numbers more than 35,000 works, spanning six millennia and encompassing art from most world cultures. Discover the Johnson Museum Life-changing opportunities Experience Cornell Discover life changing experiences and opportunities for learning, discovery and public engagement both on and off campus. Discover the opportunities Sweet treats Cornell Dairy Bar The Cornell Dairy Bar in Stocking Hall, the sweetest place on campus, sells thousands of pints of ice cream each year. Visit the Dairy Bar Explore our campus Cornell Botanic Gardens With thousands of acres to explore, numerous gardens to enjoy, and engaging programs to learn from, we invite you to explore all that Cornell Botanic Gardens has to offer. See our natural beauty Supporting campus health Live well to learn well We foster lifelong learning and well-being through innovative services and strategies that promote the physical, emotional and social health of individuals and our diverse campus community. Visit Cornell Health "Extend your learning beyond the classroom, and embrace the breadth of Cornell." - Ryan Lombardi, Vice President for Student and Campus Life Dining on Campus Global Cornell Cornell in NYC Outdoor Education Helpful Links expand menu Academic Calendar Leadership Careers Events News Title IX Emergency Preparedness Visiting Cornell expand menu Campus Tours Maps & Directions Ithaca-NYC Travel Johnson Museum Botanic Gardens Ithaca Ithaca Today expand menu Live View Weather 79°F / 26°C Ithaca, New York University Privacy Web Accessibility Assistance Copyright Site Information Contact Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube