Indoor face covering requirements reinstated through June 13. More COVID-19 information. × Skip to main content A to Z Listing Campus Map Find People News Skip to main content University of California, Riverside Search Quicklinks Visit Events Make a Gift Campus Map Jobs Library Parking and Transportation Apply UC Riverside University of California, Riverside University of California, Riverside Search About About Overview Rankings and Facts Impacts History Visitors International Leadership Find Information for... Current Students Prospective Students Faculty Staff Parents Alumni Academics Academics Overview Undergraduate Majors Graduate Programs Colleges and Schools UCR Extension Find Information For... Current Students Prospective Students Faculty Staff Parents Alumni Admissions Admissions Overview Undergraduate Admissions Graduate Admissions International Admissions Transfer Admissions Cost Veteran Admissions Find Information For... Current Students Prospective Students Faculty Staff Parents Alumni Research Research Overview Undergraduate Research Graduate Research Centers and Facilities Library Find Information For... Current Students Prospective Students Faculty Staff Parents Alumni Campus Life Campus Life Overview Events Campus Map Arts and Culture Athletics and Recreation Health and Safety Botanic Gardens Housing Dining About Riverside Find Information For... Current Students Prospective Students Faculty Staff Parents Alumni Quicklinks Visit Events Make a Gift Campus Map Jobs Library Parking and Transportation Apply Academics Breadcrumb Academics Exceptional Academics, Extraordinary Support UC Riverside boasts high academic standards in a highly supportive, inclusive environment. Our dynamic campus serves as an incubator of new knowledge and new voices — our students, faculty, and researchers are encouraged to collaborate and innovate, providing fresh perspectives to address our world’s greatest needs. At UCR, we provide a robust set of undergraduate, graduate, and professional degree programs to one of the most diverse student populations in the nation. Our strong core programs and new and emerging disciplines are housed within three colleges and four professional schools: Marlan and Rosemary Bourns College of Engineering College of Humanities, Arts, and Social Sciences College of Natural and Agricultural Sciences School of Education School of Business School of Medicine School of Public Policy UC Riverside’s undergraduate programs are designed around experiential learning and research opportunities that cultivate exceptional graduates who go on to prosper personally and professionally. University Honors students receive the added benefits of priority registration, smaller class sizes, and a built-in support system with increased opportunities for internships and other real-world experience. Students seeking international academic experiences can connect with Education Abroad, UCR’s gateway to programs that provide coursework and cultural/language immersion to help them compete in a global marketplace. We also offer more than 50 rigorous academic and professional graduate programs that challenge and prepare students through transformative, real-world applications. In 2011, UCR opened the first public School of Medicine on the U.S. West Coast in more than 40 years and, in 2012, launched its School of Public Policy to benefit residents of the Inland Empire. It is one of only four public policy schools in the 10-campus University of California system. Related Topics Academics at UCR Undergraduate Majors Colleges and Schools Graduate Programs UCR Extension COLLEGES AND SCHOOLS MORE INFORMATION UNDERGRADUATE MAJORS MORE INFORMATION GRADUATE PROGRAMS MORE INFORMATION ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Academic Calendar The UCR Academic Calendar specifies dates and deadlines for each quarter of the current academic year. Link to Academic Calendar UCR General Catalog Explore program and course descriptions in the UCR General Catalog. Link to UCR General Catalog Summer Sessions Enrich your academic experience by enrolling in summer sessions. Get ahead, stay on track, work towards graduating early or aim to Finish in 4! Summer Sessions UCR Library UC Riverside libraries are among the largest academic research libraries in the United States. They are a place to explore, imagine, and innovate. Link to UCR Library Search University of California, Riverside 900 University Ave. Riverside, CA 92521 Tel: (951) 827-1012 UCR Library Campus Status Campus Store Career Opportunities Diversity Maps and Directions Visit UCR University Communications 1156 Hinderaker Hall tel: (951) 827-1012 email: webteam@ucr.edu Find Us Related Links Campus Return UCR Admissions UCR News Colleges and Schools Graduate Division UCR Jobs UCR Health Giving Follow Us: Privacy and Accessibility Terms and Conditions © 2022 Regents of the University of California × Let us help you with your search Enter your Search Criteria. Search Cancel