Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Scholarships Important Announcements Scholarship Opportunities Tiger Scholarship Manager HOPE Scholarship Forms FAQs Summer 3+3 Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact Take Action Tiger Scholarship Manager Submitting a Scholarship Check Service Hours Contact Us Home Scholarships Hope Lottery Scholarship HOPE Lottery Scholarship Information HOPE Information for Incoming Freshmen HOPE Information for Transfer Students How to Regain HOPE Eligibility HOPE Lottery Scholarship Applications (FAFSA) Summer Hope Lottery Scholarship Tennessee Student Assistance Corporation (TSAC) Financial Aid Portal HOPE Non-Traditional Scholarship Forms HOPE Lottery Scholarship Appeal Form HOPE Regain Option Request Form HOPE Personal Leave of Absence Form TSAC Change of Institution Request HOPE Course Repeat Option Form FAQs What are the requirements to be eligible for the HOPE Scholarship? TN HOPE Scholarship 21 ACT/1060 SAT or 3.0 unweighted final high school GPA Graduated from TN high school or other eligible institution Home school students must have a 21 on the ACT, have attended home school for at least 1 one prior to graduation, and be registered within a local TN school district Must start college within 16 months of high school graduation. TN ASPIRE Award Meet all HOPE Scholarship qualifications Parent’s or Independent student’s adjusted gross income must not exceed $36,000 If a student is selected for Financial Aid Verification, verification must be completed before ASPIRE eligibility is determined TN Merit Award Meet all HOPE Scholarship qualifications Must have 29 ACT/1280 SAT and a 3.75 final high school GPA (unweighted) Home school students must also meet one of the following: Have enrolled in at least 12 hours of college course work with a cumulative GPA of a 3.0 while in home school Participate in a Governor’s School Program and achieve a 3.0 cumulative GPA Take 2 AP exams and make a score of 3 Take one CLEP test with a score or at least 55 How do I apply for the HOPE Scholarship? The FAFSA is the application for the HOPE Scholarship. The FAFSA becomes available to file October 1st of each year and can be filled out at studentaid.gov. How much is the HOPE Scholarship? Number of Semester Hours HOPE Fr/So HOPE Jr/Sr ASPIRE MERIT Less than 6 hours Ineligible Ineligible Ineligible Ineligible 6-8 credit hours $875 $1125 $375 $250 9-11credit hours $1313 $1688 $563 $375 12 or more credit hours $1750 $2250 $750 $500 What GPA do I need to maintain to remain eligible for the HOPE Scholarship? The HOPE Scholarship GPA is checked every 24 attempted credit hours: 24 and 48 hours – 2.75 cumulative GPA required 72, 96, 120 hours – 3.0 cumulative GPA required OR 2.75-2.99 cumulative GPA with a semester GPA of a 3.0. This makes a student Provisional. If a student is Provisional, they must take 12 hours a semester and their GPA will be checked every semester. Their GPA must be a 3.0 each semester. Why is my HOPE Scholarship GPA different from my UofM GPA? The HOPE GPA, also known as the Tennessee Education Lottery Scholarship (TELS) GPA, can differ from the U of M GPA. The TELS GPA does not count AP or Dual Enrollment courses taken during high school. The TELS GPA does not replace the grade when a class is repeated. A student can replace one grade for TELS GPA purposes. To do this the student must file the HOPE Course Repeat form. How do I check my current TELS GPA and attempted hours? Log in to myMemphis with your username and password Click on the Student Pages tab, then select My Resources Find the Banner Self-Service channel and click on the Banner Self-Service folder Click on Student Click on Student Records Scroll through the list to find ‘View TELS Eligibility’ Select the last semester you attended, and you will see your TELS GPA at each 24 hour benchmark. Will I lose the HOPE Scholarship if I drop a class? Students must stay continuously enrolled to remain eligible for the HOPE Scholarship. This means if you start the semester as a full-time student you cannot drop below 12 hours, and if you start the semester as a part-time student, you cannot drop below 6 hours. Can I sit out a semester and still be eligible to receive the HOPE Scholarship when I return? Students must attend each Fall and Spring semester. If you need to sit out a semester due to an extenuating circumstance, you can file a Leave of Absence before the semester starts. If approved, this will allow you to sit out a semester without losing the HOPE scholarship. If I lose the HOPE Scholarship, am I able to regain the scholarship? If you lose the HOPE Scholarship due to GPA, you cannot file an appeal. Once you reach the next GPA benchmark, your TELS GPA will be checked. If you have the required TELS GPA, you can regain the HOPE Scholarship as long all other requirements have been met. • If you lose the HOPE Scholarship due to dropping a class or sitting out a semester, you may be eligible to file a HOPE Scholarship Appeal, if it was due to an extenuating circumstance beyond your control. You can contact the Scholarship Office for additional information. How long can I receive the HOPE Scholarship? You can receive the HOPE Scholarship until you reach the first of the following: attainment of a baccalaureate degree or 5 years have passed from initial enrollment or student has attempted 120 semester hours and has received the HOPE Scholarship for eight (8) full-time equivalent semesters at any postsecondary institution; whichever occurs later. If I graduated May 2020 can I still take the ACT and be eligible to receive the HOPE Scholarship? If you graduated May 2020, you can take the ACT during the Fall semester and still be eligible to receive the HOPE Scholarship. How will HOPE Scholarship eligibility be determined if the Fall 2020 and Spring 2021 ACT tests are not available for high school seniors? We are monitoring the current situation closely and will let you know if any changes are made to HOPE Scholarship eligibility. I have more questions, how do I contact the scholarship office? You can submit an online question, email scholarships@memphis.edu, or a scholarship representatives can be reached by phone at: 901.678.3213. Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/22/21 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.