Skip to main content Restrict my search to Human Resources Submit Close Login to AccessUH Give to UH Search Human Resources About HR Careers Careers HR Service Center I-9 and eVerify FML Employee Verification Prior State Service CHRI Request Employees Staff Scholarships New Employees Foreign National Employees Graduate Students Temporary Student Employees Employee Recognition Program HR Departments Benefits Family and Medical Leave Act Information ERS Annual Enrollment Benefits at a Glance Benefits Updates Employee Assistance Program ERS Annual Enrollment - TexFlex Insurance Retirement Worker's Compensation at UH Benefits FAQs Compensation HR Business Partners Reduction in Force Employee Terminations Payroll Services Talent Acquisition Why Work for UH? Staff Employment NHO Request CHRI Request Talent Development Virtual Training LinkedIn Learning Policies SAM HR Policies MAPP HR Policies Common Policies & Resources Administrative Responsibility ACA E-Verify FLSA Regulations Update Fitness Release Time and Wellness Leave Policy Workplace Posters PASS Navigation HR Communication HR Online Resource Guide UH Home Human Resources HR Service Center Prior State Service Human Resources Employees Forms PowerUP Wellness HR FAQs HR Service Center HR Online Resource Guide UH Training Resources Verification of Prior State Service Prior State Service Definition: State service credit is earned when you work for a State of Texas agency or a public institution of higher education. Purpose: State service affects your vacation accruals and eligibility for longevity pay. Process: Benefits-eligible employees with prior Texas State employment must complete the Verification of Prior State Service Form for each State agency. Once the form is complete, the employee must submit it to the Department of Human Resources. HR will contact the agencies to verify prior State employment. Upon verification, HR will update your service years, apply the correct vacation accrual, and longevity if applicable. Requests for prior State service are processed on first come, first serve basis and in some cases require considerable research and time to verify. Please complete the Verification of Prior State Service form and fax to Human Resources at 713-743-4830. If you prefer, you may contact each state agency directly and ask them to fax your completed form to the university. The university does not automatically receive information about your state service history. It is your responsibility to provide the form and ensure that your state service is complete and correct. Contact: If you have any questions, please contact the HR Service Center at 713-743-3988 or hrsc@uh.edu University of Houston Houston, Texas 77204 (713) 743-2255 A–Z Index Academic Calendar Campus Carry Policy Campus Map Career Opportunities Directory Emergency Information Get Help Human Resources Library Mental Health Resources Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Office of the President Parking Report Copyright Infringement Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness Open Records/Public Information Act Texas Veterans Portal Tuition & Fees UH System Virtual Tour ©2022 University of Houston. All rights reserved. Report a problem with this page Texas.gov Texas Homeland Security TRAIL Fraud Reporting Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Linking Notice Privacy Notice Open Records/Public Information Act Institutional Résumé Required Reports Electronic & Information Resources Accessibility Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness University Policies