Skip to main content Students Startups Investors Alumni About Back About Leadership Sponsors Our History Calendar Students Startups Investors Alumni About Leadership Sponsors Our History Calendar Jon Brumley Texas Venture Labs Experience Entrepreneurship We work campus-wide across disciplines to accelerate startups, take their innovations to market, and transform graduate students into entrepreneurs and business growers. Building Skills While Launching Dreams $855M INVESTOR FUNDING Aggregate Investor Funds Raised 42% OF COMPANIES FUNDED After Working with TVL 274 TVL ACCELERATOR COMPANIES Participating Since 2010 816 UT GRADUATE STUDENTS Have Enrolled in the Practicum WE CRAFT DREAM PITCHES Our passion is to bring together students, startups, alumni, and investors to move new ideas into business reality. Drawing upon business, law, science, and engineering, we make The University of Texas at Austin a startup accelerator of the First Class. Watch the Video CENTER HIGHLIGHTS Big ideas belong at Texas. We open our doors to newcomers and fresh ideas and make the improbable possible. Find your place here – there is always room for one more innovator at UT. Accelerator The TVL Accelerator provides an opportunity for startups to take their ventures to the next level with the unique benefit of leveraging UT Austin resources and talent. JBTVL also provides a venue for investors to engage with UT research and startups. The TVL Accelerator matches early-stage Texas-based startups with cross-functional student teams from across UT’s graduate schools to help solve business problems. The TVL Accelerator is a zero-cost, zero-equity program that collaborates with Texas startups who want to work with graduate student consultants for up to 200 hours of high-impact business consulting over a 14-week semester. We accept applications from pre-revenue and post-revenue companies who have a working prototype or product, can clearly define two to three projects for students, and are ready to engage with the student team. We welcome startups from ALL industries! In addition to our MBA, MSTC, and McCombs MS students, many of our graduate students come from other disciplines such as computer science, life science, law, and engineering. Since we are embedded in an academic institution and surrounded by brilliant scientific and technical talent, startups who can leverage technical Ph.D. and Masters students in their project work are encouraged to apply. For more information, check out the FAQs. Apply now Practicum The TVL Practicum connects local startup companies with talented and entrepreneurial graduate students from UT Austin. Most students come from the MBA, law, engineering, pharmacy, and natural sciences programs but all majors are welcome. Students participate in semester-long consulting projects with company founders, delivering 200-300 hours of quality consulting work for academic course credit. The TVL Practicum is a cross-disciplinary networking and learning program with a hands-on approach using the academic foundations of entrepreneurship and business modeling. Students learn project management, client relations, team collaboration, market validation, competitive research, price modeling, and analytics. Investment Competition The Texas Venture Labs Investment Competition (TVLIC) mimics the real-world process of raising venture capital. Graduate students from the University of Texas System present their ideas for new businesses and receive invaluable feedback from entrepreneurs and investors. Many TVLIC competitors launch successful businesses, including uShip, Ordoro, BeatBox Beverages, Phurnace Software, and Qcue. The Spring 2021 winning team was NiSOC, which has secured SBIR funding from the United States DoD for its innovative (patented) solution for radiation detection at US ports of entry based on a semiconductor platform. The Texas Superstar Award went to Bold Move Beverages in second place, and the Texas Rising Star went to Root Medical Translation in third place. Root Medical Translation also won the ScaleHealth Innovation Award. The E. Craig Nemec Elevator Challenge Award is given to the best elevator pitch. The three winners were NiSOC, Root Medical Translation, and GRIT Chew. Startup Fellows TVL Startup Fellows gain experience while building their expertise and networks in their target careers. They lead projects and solve problems while reinforcing classroom learning. Fellows bridge the gap between their career aspirations and current skill set. TVL Startup Fellows choose between three tracks based on their interests and desired company type. The Commercialization track focuses on translational research, new technologies, and company launch. The Growth & Scale track focuses on established products and company expansion. The Venture track focuses on startup investment and firm fundraising activities.  JBTVL helps graduate students and graduate student alumni connect with the Texas startup ecosystem. Startup Fellows enjoy access to a range of programming, including guest speakers, networking opportunities, and mentoring from JBTVL Advisory Board Members representing early-stage investors and Texas accelerators. Interested UT-Austin graduate students and graduate student alumni are encouraged to apply here for the Startup Fellows. TVL Startup Fellows are selected based on an application and interview process. Upon mutual agreement between the Fellow and Accelerator company, the student works with the company for approximately 10 hours per week for the fellowship duration. Call for Austin Startups The Jon Brumley Texas Venture Labs Accelerator matches Austin-area startups with cross-functional teams of UT Austin graduate students for 10-week startup consulting projects. Our rigorous market validation process and our students' research accelerate startups towards funding. The JBTVL Accelerator is a zero-cost, zero-equity program that collaborates with Texas-based startups who want to work with graduate student consultants for up to 300 hours of high-impact business consulting. We accept startup company applications from pre- and post-revenue companies who have a working prototype or product, can clearly define two to three student projects, and are ready to engage with the student team. We welcome startups from all industries. In addition to our McCombs MBA, MSTC, and MS students, many of our graduate students come from science, engineering, and computer science disciplines. Since we are surrounded by brilliant scientific and technical talent, startups who can leverage the skills of technical Ph.D. and Masters students are encouraged to apply. JOIN THE UT STARTUP ECOSYSTEM Step into the entrepreneurship environment at The University of Texas at Austin. The Jon Brumley Texas Venture Labs will connect you to the success track from academic scholarship to investor-ready startups. Newsletter Signup Center Updates Texas Venture Labs Office Hours: Wednesdays, 12:30 PM -1:30 p.m. Rowling Hall, Suite RRH 1.354 Appointments: contact TVL Get in Touch (512) 471-5921 Mailing Address: Jon Brumley Texas Venture Labs 300 W. Martin Luther King Jr. Blvd. RRH 1.354, Stop D9700 Austin, TX 78712 © 2021 McCombs School of Business, The University of Texas at Austin