Skip to main content Undergraduate Admissions Navigation Academics Admissions FreshmanTransferInternationalTransient, Non-Degree Seeking and Second Bachelor’sDual Enrollment and Early AdmissionAdmitted StudentsRequest InfoCheck Status Cost and Aid Visit FAQs View All FAQsFreshmanApplication ProcessAdmitted StudentsCost, Fees and Financial AidCampus Visits and ToursHousing and Campus Life Resources For High School StudentsFor ParentsFor CounselorsVirtual Info SessionsAdmission FormsJoin Our Mailing ListContact Us Apply Freshman Applicants This Is Your Chance Skip to Section Why UCF? Why be a Knight? For lots of reasons. We are a community of helpers, makers and leaders. We’re diverse and inclusive. We push ourselves to reach our maximum potential. And we all make big things happen. Watch video: Students Live Big at UCF Experience Campus Life × Fall 2021 Freshman Class Profile* 1325 Average SAT Score (Evidence-based Reading/Writing + Math) 28.6 Average ACT Score 4.25 Average High School GPA 107 National Merit Scholars 48% Ethnic Minority Enrollment Top 5 Majors: Engineering, Computer Science, Biology, Psychology, Biomedical Sciences Top 5 States: Florida, New York, Georgia, Pennsylvania, New Jersey Top 5 Countries Outside of the United States: Venezuela, Colombia, China, Haiti, Brazil *As of Sep. 2021 Admission Requirements Who Should Apply as a Freshman? High school seniors High school students or graduates who earned dual enrollment credit or an AA degree but have not completed more than 11 semester hours of college coursework after high school graduation High school graduates who have never enrolled in college Florida BOG Regulation 6.001 (7) authorizes universities to refuse admission to applicants due to past misconduct. Meeting minimum requirements does not guarantee admission. What You Need to Apply: Completed Self-Provided Academic Record for Knights “SPARK” Form; Students who have already completed high school must submit a current official high school or home-school transcript Official SAT [code: 5233] or ACT [code: 0735] score Official GED or TOEFL/IELTS score, if applicable Application essay (strongly encouraged but not required) $30 nonrefundable application fee Completed online application: Apply using the UCF Undergraduate Application Apply with Common App Freshman Application Deadlines Semester Deadline Fall May 1 Spring November 1 Summer March 1 Apply Now Admissions questions? We can help. Learn more about your next steps. Our undergraduate admissions counselors cover everything you need to know. Sign up for an info session Freshman Admissions FAQs When is the best time to apply for admission? You can apply up to one year prior to the term for which you plan to enroll. Freshmen should apply early (between September and December of their senior year in high school) for maximum consideration in the admission and scholarship review process. Apply Today What is the Top 10 Knights guaranteed admission initiative? If you are in the top 10 percent of your high school class within the state of Florida, UCF rewards your academic success with guaranteed admission to the fall, spring or summer semester.* We call this our Top 10 Knights program, and to qualify you must: Currently attend a Florida high school Rank in the top 10 percent of your high school class or have a recalculated GPA of 3.9 or above (if your high school does not provide rankings) Complete and submit a SPARK Form indicating your class rank and class size Complete at least four units of approved academic core math by the end of your senior year Earn a minimum SAT score of 1100 (evidence-based Reading/Writing and Math) or an ACT composite score of 22. *Consistent with university policy. Learn More about Top 10 Knights Do I need to take certain courses during high school to be admitted? The short answer: yes. UCF requires a minimum of 18 high school units to be considered for admission. Here are the details: Four years of English Four years of math (Algebra 1 and above) Three years of science Three years of social studies Two years of the same foreign language (in sequence) Two academic electives Please note: Meeting these minimum requirements does not automatically guarantee admission. Florida BOG Regulation 6.001 (7) authorizes universities to refuse admission to applicants due to past misconduct. Do you consider weighted GPAs? Grades in Advanced Placement, AICE, dual enrollment, honors and International Baccalaureate courses will be given additional weight in your GPA computation if the courses are considered academic core (English, math, science, social science, or foreign language). Students will be required to submit official AP, IB or AICE scores and final official dual enrollment transcripts within six days of the start of their first semester at UCF. View All FAQs Explore UCF's Undergraduate Specialty Programs Undergraduate Viewbook Check out the Undergraduate Viewbook for everything you need to know about becoming a Knight. Explore the Viewbook Contact Us Mailing Address P.O. Box 160111 Orlando, FL 32816-0111 Contact Email: [email protected] Phone: 844-376-9160 Fax: 407-823-5625 Business Hours Mon - Fri: 9 a.m. - 5 p.m. Closed Weekends & Holidays Application Deadlines Freshman Applicants Fall: May 1 Spring: November 1 Summer: March 1 Transfer Applicants Fall: July 1 Spring: November 1 Summer: March 1 International Applicants Fall: March 1 Spring: September 1 Summer: January 1 More Resources FAQs Admission Forms Accreditation Annual Security Report Accessibility Request Info Let’s Get Social Facebook Twitter