phonebook Connections Profiles Harvard Connections Click here for the Beta version of the new Harvard Directory - a richer, interactive site including user- generated content. Note: Harvard Connections is only open to people at Harvard. Data displayed in Connections always complies with privacy options selected by/for a user. What are the privacy levels? Tips Search other directory and networking sites: Harvard Medical School White Pages. Harvard Directories. Search Help Need help with your search? Helpful tips for successful searching Frequently Asked Questions Wildcard search Multi-field search Searchable phone number formats Invalid search characters Error messages Why can't I find the person I'm looking for? I know he or she is affiliated with Harvard. Why can't I see all of an individual's contact information? How do I get login credentials? My own contact information is missing or incorrect. What should I do? Is there a mobile version of this directory? Is there a directory for Departmental listings (versus searching for individuals)? Search Tips Wildcard search: Partial searches are available using the asterisk (*). For example, johnst* returns Johnston and Johnstone. Multi-field search: To narrow your search, enter criteria in more than one field. This may be helpful when searching for an individual with a common last name. Searchable phone number formats: Phone numbers should be entered without dashes, spaces or other characters. For example: 6174951000. If you do not know all 10 digits of the phone number, use the wildcard. For example: *51000. Invalid search characters: Special characters, by and large, should not be submitted as part of the search criteria. Allowed special characters vary by the search criteria: Last & First Name: period (.), dash (-), underscore (_), asterisk (*), apostrophe (') Email: period (.), dash (-), underscore (_), asterisk (*), at sign (@) Phone number: period (.), dash (-), underscore (_), asterisk (*), open parentheses ((), closed parentheses ()), plus (+) Error messages: "Too many results to display. Please refine your search." If you receive this message, enter additional information to narrow your search. For example, if you have searched by last name only, search by last name and first initial followed by the asterisk (*), or any other piece of information you may have. "No matches to your query. Please try again." If you receive this message, check your spelling or number format and try again. If you still do not receive a match, no information is available. "You have exceeded the maximum number of daily queries. No results are available." To discourage directory compilation, each user is allowed a maximum number of queries per day. If you have reached your max, you may try again tomorrow. If you absolutely need to find an individual's contact information today, call the Harvard operators at 617-495-1000. If you are a Harvard administrator and need assistance with looking up a number of people, contact the HUIT Helpdesk. "An invalid special character was submitted. Please revise your search." If you receive this message, please remove the special characters submitted and try again. If you believe there is a disallowed special character in the desired return, you may try using the wild card search or you may wish to try a different search criteria combination. See above Invalid search characters for a list of the allowed special characters. Frequently Asked Questions Q: Why can't I find the person I'm looking for? I know he or she is affiliated with Harvard. A: Individuals may elect to keep all or some of their contact information private. If you have Harvard login credentials, click the "Log In" button to view additional data available only to the Harvard community. Q: Why can't I see all of an individual's contact information? A: The individual may have chosen to make some data available while keeping other information private. Some schools, for example, will only make email data available to those within the Harvard community. To view more data, click the "Log In" button. Q: How do I get login credentials? A: To learn more about Harvard login credentials, including eligibility, visit reference.iam.harvard.edu. Q: My own contact information is missing or incorrect. What should I do? A: You can update some contact details yourself within Harvard's internal directory (login required) under "Edit My Profile." To update your appointment title, HR department, or University mailing address, contact your local HR office. To update your privacy flags, speak with your departmental directory contact (for employees) or registrar (for students). Q: Is there a mobile version of this directory? A: This directory is available from mobile devices. Q: Is there a directory for Departmental listings (versus searching for individuals)? A: Yes, departmental listings can be searched here: http://huit.harvard.edu/pages/all-about-harvard-directory. Search the Internal Directory Log in to view additional information. Privacy Help The compilation or redistribution of information from Harvard University directories is forbidden. Privacy Statement Need Help with your Search? © Copyright 2022 President and Fellows of Harvard College