Skip to main content. ADVISORY | COVID-19 Information × kumc.edu School of Health Professions School of Medicine School of Nursing University of Kansas The University of Kansas Health System The University of Kansas Cancer Center Search within this section Search all sites Academic and Student Affairs Student Financial Aid Financial Aid Financial Aid Process Scholarships & Grants Loans Federal Work Study Consumer Information Code of Conduct Our Campuses Make a Gift Info for Current Students Blackboard Webmail myKUMC Prospective Students Prospective Employees Alumni Faculty & Staff Residents & Fellows Patients Donors Researchers Visitors Student Financial Aid Our Campuses Make a Gift Info for Student Financial Aid Financial Aid Academic and Student Affairs Student Financial Aid Financial Aid Financial Aid Financial Aid Process Scholarships & Grants Loans Federal Work Study Consumer Information Code of Conduct Costs & Budgets Costs & Budgets Student Budgets Budgeting Tools Certified Financial Planners Financial Aid Presentations Tuition and Fee Details Forms Policies Policies Cost of Attendance Adjustments Policy Communication Policy Documentation of Attendance for Direct Loan and Perkins Recipients Documentation of Attendance for Pell Grant Recipients Financial Aid for Classes Outside of KU Medical Center Financial Aid for Summer Medical Elective Policy Income Adjustment Policy Independent Student Status Satisfactory Academic Progress Tuition/Fee Deferment Verification Policy Withdrawing or Dropping Classes Contact Us Financial Aid Consumer Information Overview Read up on eligibility for financial aid, general institutional operations, school accreditation, immunization policies, campus safety and security, student record access and privacy, scholarship fraud and other consumer-oriented information. The Higher Education Act of 1965 (HEA), as amended by the Higher Education Opportunity Act of 2008 (HEOA), requires institutions to disclose consumer-oriented information to prospective and enrolled students. In This Section In This Section Code of Conduct Student Eligibility for Financial Aid To receive federal student aid, you must meet certain requirements. You must: Be a U.S. citizen or eligible noncitizen. Have a valid Social Security Number (unless you are from the Republic of the Marshall Islands, the Federated States of Micronesia or the Republic of Palau). Be registered with Selective Service if you are male and between the ages of 18 to 25 years of age (more information on Selective Service). Have a high school diploma or a General Education Development (GED) certificate or pass an exam approved by the U.S. Department of Education. Be enrolled or accepted for enrollment as a regular student working toward a degree or certificate in an eligible program at a school that participates in the federal student aid programs. Not have a drug conviction for an offense that occurred while you were receiving federal student aid (such as grants, loans or work study). You must not owe a refund on a federal grant or be in default on a federal student loan, and you must demonstrate financial need (except for unsubsidized loans). General KU Medical Center Information Academic Programs Accreditation Information Availability of Institutional and Financial Aid Information and Assistance Undergraduates Graduate Students Medical Students Clery (Campus Security) Act Copyright Policy and Guidelines Costs and Budgets Financial Aid Code of Conduct Fire Safety Report Student Handbook Missing Residential Student Policy and Procedure Refund Policies Retention/Completion/Graduation/Transfer Rates Return of Financial Aid Satisfactory Academic Progress Services Available for Students with Disabilities Student Body Diversity Student Right-To-Know Act Study Abroad Voter Registration Withdrawal Paper copies of documents are available by request from individual University departments. Accreditation Information The University of Kansas is accredited by the Higher Learning Commission. Complaints can be filed online or by calling 312-263-0456. Immunization Policies and Health Requirements for Enrollment Enrollment requirements may be fulfilled by making an appointment with Student Health Services. Student Health will perform all necessary tests, examinations and bloodwork and assist with filling out required forms. All students at KU Medical Center are required to have a complete immunization record on file at Student Health. Immunization and other health requirements are set by the program of study. Any special circumstances regarding immunizations should be discussed with Student Health individually. Students can check their immunization status online. Failure to comply will result in denial of class registration. Health Requirements for Continuing Students Safety and Security The University of Kansas makes several safety and security reports available to its community and to prospective students and employees. These reports provide important information, including several items for which federal law requires disclosure. The Annual Security Report is published annually and contains: campus policy regarding the reporting of criminal activity campus policy concerning facility safety and access campus policy concerning law enforcement information regarding security and crime-prevention programs campus policy for the recording of off campus-criminal activity campus policy regarding the sale, possession and use of alcohol and illegal drugs information regarding drug and alcohol education programs campus policy regarding sexual assault programs to prevent sex offenses and procedures to follow when sex offenses occur crime statistics for the three most recent calendar years links to websites for Kansas and Missouri registered sex offenders The Alertus system enables the KU Medical Center police department to communicate with the campus in real-time during an emergency. These emergencies include: severe weather that requires immediate action situations that affect public safety environmental dangers to the campus If the Alertus system is activated, unless otherwise notified that we are conducting a test, you are in a life-threatening situation and should follow directions in subsequent communications. If there is an emergency, the following communications will take place: The sounding of each Alertus modules alarm and flashing lights, along with a text message on the unit's display board A simultaneous emergency broadcast email will be sent to each medical center email account Anyone who has opted into the campus RAVE alert system will receive a text message Family Education Rights and Privacy Act (FERPA) This federal law applies to educational agencies and institutions that receive funding under a program administered by the U.S. Department of Education. Under FERPA, schools must give students attending college access to their education records, a chance to have those records amended and some control over the disclosure of information from their records. FERPA protects a student's information from being disclosed to anyone other than the student or those authorized by the student to receive information. Our policy Scholarship/Financial Aid Fraud Prevention The College Scholarship Fraud Prevention Act of 2000 (CSFPA) enhances protection against fraud in student financial assistance by establishing stricter sentencing guidelines for criminal financial aid fraud. The Federal Trade Commission (FTC) also must work with the U.S. Department of Education to maintain a scholarship fraud awareness website. According to the FTC, perpetrators of financial aid fraud often used these telltale lines: The scholarship is guaranteed or your money back. You can’t get this information anywhere else. I just need your credit card or bank account number to hold this scholarship. We’ll do all the work. The scholarship will cost some money. You’ve been selected by a ‘national foundation’ to receive a scholarship’ or ‘You’re a finalist,’ in a contest you never entered. To file a complaint, or for free information, call 1-877-FTC-HELP (1-877-382-4357) or visit the FTC website. Student Financial Aid University of Kansas Medical Center Student Financial Aid Office G035 Dykes Library 3901 Rainbow Boulevard Kansas City, Kan. 66160 Phone: 913-588-5170 Fax: 913-588-8841 Email: financialaid@kumc.edu Make a Gift 3901 Rainbow Boulevard, Kansas City, KS 66160 | 913-588-5000 About Calendar News Equal Opportunity Statement Careers Facebook opens in new tab Twitter opens in new tab YouTube opens in new tab Instagram opens in new tab LinkedIn opens in new tab © 2022 The University of Kansas prohibits discrimination on the basis of race, color, ethnicity, religion, sex, national origin, age, ancestry, disability, status as a veteran, sexual orientation, marital status, parental status, gender identity, gender expression, and genetic information in the university's programs and activities. Retaliation is also prohibited by university policy. Inquiries regarding our non-discrimination policies should be directed to the Director for the Equal Opportunity & Academic Compliance Office, Mail Stop 7004, 4330 Shawnee Mission Parkway, Fairway, KS 66205, 913-588-5964, 711 TTY (for the Wichita, Salina, and Kansas City, Kansas medical center campuses). Inquiries regarding the University Sexual Harassment Policy should be directed to the Title IX Coordinator at 913-588-8011. Free Expression Statement | Privacy Statement | Notice of Privacy Practices | Consumer Information We use cookies to analyze our traffic & provide social media features. Visit the KU Medical Center Privacy Statement for more information. By closing this window & browsing this site, you agree to our use of cookies.