Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. Division of Administration and Finance Administration and Finance right arrow down arrow About right arrow down arrow Leadership Units Policies Business right arrow down arrow Business Core Systems right arrow down arrow Catalyst UC Flex Community Development Travel Resources right arrow down arrow Concur Travel and Expense Management Concur Training right arrow down arrow Concur FAQs Best Practice Guide Training Guides and Videos Concur SSO Login Travel Resources Contacts Policy and Travel Tools Travel Cancellation Guidance Concur Guest Account Login Environmental Health & Safety right arrow down arrow Waste Management Training right arrow down arrow Advanced Laboratory Safety Training Animal Care Safety Training Defensive Driving Training Facilities Mgmt/Construction Training Laboratory Compliance Training Principal Investigators Training Orientation & Informational Courses Emergency Procedures right arrow down arrow Work-related Injuries & Illnesses Lab Safety Resources & Documents right arrow down arrow Advisories Additional Information Frequently Asked Questions Our Mission right arrow down arrow Laboratory Safety with an Attitude Programs right arrow down arrow Occupational Safety right arrow down arrow IACUC Information Hazardous Materials Management Environmental Engineering right arrow down arrow Pollution Control Asbestos/Lead Abatement Industrial Hygiene Health & Safety Administration Contact Us Facilities Management right arrow down arrow Departments right arrow down arrow Central Receiving Grounds Housekeeping Mail Services Maintenance & Operations Moving Services Project Services Transportation Services right arrow down arrow Shuttle Services UC*Metro Program Charters and Rentals Utilities right arrow down arrow Utilities: Production Utilities: Distribution Dashboards Energy Conservation Recycling @ UC COVID-19 Information right arrow down arrow Cleaning right arrow down arrow Classroom Cleaning Office Cleaning Hand Sanitizer Stations Specialized Cleaning Tools Physical Space right arrow down arrow HVAC - Indoor Air Quality Sneeze Guard Request Process Safe Work Environment and Wellness Resources Contact Us right arrow down arrow Service Requests Join Our Team Announcements Finance right arrow down arrow Vice President for Finance Office of the Controller right arrow down arrow Accounting & Reporting Accounts Payable right arrow down arrow Vendor Form Information Purchasing & Non-Purchasing Information Asset Management Capital Finance Payroll Operations right arrow down arrow Employee Self Service (ESS) for Former Employees Payroll Calendars Stop Payment Request Form W-2 Information Office of the Treasurer right arrow down arrow Debt Management Investment Operations Tax Compliance Treasury Operations Budget Management Investment Office right arrow down arrow Endowment Impact Stories Contact Us right arrow down arrow Karl Scheer | Chief Investment Officer Sam Ekis | Investment Director Tony Caccomo | Senior Investment Analyst Doreen Clark | Investment Operations Administrator Investment Intern Program History Planning + Design + Construction right arrow down arrow Maps and Space Management right arrow down arrow Scheduling Events at the Reading Campus 2021 Intermediate Space Survey User Guide Sustainability right arrow down arrow Get Involved right arrow down arrow Committees & Organizations Events & Programming Environmental Literacy Campus Initiatives right arrow down arrow Built Environment Energy Food Landscape Transportation Water Management Waste Diversion Purchasing Carbon Inventory & Climate Action Plan Links & Resources right arrow down arrow On-Campus Resources Off-Campus Resources Tools & Guides Partners In The News Naming right arrow down arrow General Criteria Monetary Guidelines Design Standards Naming Committee Naming Request Form Vendor Information Purchasing right arrow down arrow Purchasing Contacts Information for Suppliers Contract Compliance Supplier Diversity Home » About UC » Admin & Finance » Finance » Office of the Treasurer » Tax Compliance Set Navigation title in component Vice President for Finance Office of the Controller Accounting & Reporting Accounts Payable Vendor Form Information Purchasing & Non-Purchasing Information Asset Management Capital Finance Payroll Operations Employee Self Service (ESS) for Former Employees Payroll Calendars Stop Payment Request Form W-2 Information Office of the Treasurer Debt Management Investment Operations Tax Compliance Treasury Operations Budget Management Investment Office Endowment Impact Stories Contact Us Karl Scheer | Chief Investment Officer Sam Ekis | Investment Director Tony Caccomo | Senior Investment Analyst Doreen Clark | Investment Operations Administrator Investment Intern Program History Tax Compliance The mission of UC Tax Compliance is to serve students, staff, faculty, and others by providing accurate, timely, and useful tax-related documents and information. University Hall, Suite 500 51 Goodman Drive Cincinnati, OH 45219 Phone: 513-556-2524 Fax: 513-556-2504 Contact Us Edward Bower Director, Business Affairs (513) 556-2524 Email Jennifer Morrison Tax Compliance Analyst Sr (513) 556-5035 Email 1098-T forms for 2020 are now availablie in Catalyst. If you have any questions, please contact One Stop Student Services. Personal Services Contracts (PSCs) UC accepts Personal Services Contracts (PSCs) and the following related forms by electronic submission through the PSC Portal: Contractor Status Questionaires (CSQ's) OPERS Independent Contractor/Worker Acknowledgement (Form PEDACKN) STRS Determination of STRS Ohio Membership for Contracted Services All forms, with the sole exception of the OPERS PEDACKN form may be signed electronically. The PSC - The Quick Start Guide contains detailed instructions. Information Regarding Form W-9: Request for Taxpayer Identification Number and Certification IRS Form W-9 is often used by individuals and business entities to certify their US Taxpayer Identification Number (TIN), and their status as a "US person" including US-based business entities. For outside parties requesting a form W-9 certifying UC's TIN and US status right arrow down arrow Outside parties often request written certification of the university's legal name and federal Taxpayer Identification Number. We typically fulfill these requests by providing the requester with a signed copy of IRS Form W-9, completed with UC's data. Vendors and suppliers may download a copy of UC's Form W-9 (2020). This copy contains the mailing address of the Office of the Treasurer. If you would like a signed W-9 but would like to fill in your department's address, please contact the Office of the Treasurer at (513) 556-4510. Information Regarding Form W-8 for Foreign Payees If you or your business entity is not a "US person", then you or your business entity can not use Form W-9. Instead, please complete: For individuals, Form W-8BEN For other entities, Form W-8BEN-E Guidance on completing Form W-8BEN right arrow down arrow For foreign individuals: Please use the current version of Form W-8BEN the IRS Instructions which are also available on IRS website. Form W-8BEN is only to be used by foreign individuals who are not resident aliens for tax purposes. Foreign business entities must use Form W-8BEN-E. If not otherwise directed, submit your Form W-8BEN to us at: University of Cincinnati Tax Compliance Office PO Box 210641 Cincinnati, OH 45221-0641 Additional guidance for Forms W-8BEN submitted to UC includes: PART/LINE # ITEM INSTRUCTIONS Line 1 Name of Individual Please enter your individual name. Line 2 Country of Citizenship If you are a citizen of both the United States and another country, do not use this form. Use Form W-9 instead, as a US citizen. Line 3 Permanent residence address Enter your physical address in the country where you are a tax resident. Do not enter a Post Office Box or its equivalent. Line 4 Mailing address, if different This may be a US address, and may be a Post Office Box or its equivalent. Line 5 US Taxpayer Identification Number If you have a US SSN, enter that. If you do not have a US SSN and are not eligible to get one, you can enter your active IRS-issued ITIN here. If you do not have either a US SSN or an ITIN, then leave line 5 blank. Do not enter a Canadian Social Insurance Number here. Line 6 Foreign tax identifying number You may enter your tax identifying number from your home country here, including a Canadian Social Insurance Number. Line 8 Date of birth Please enter your date of birth in the format MM-DD-YYYY. Part II -- Claim of Tax Treaty Benefits If you will receive payments from UC, and you are eligible for reduced US tax withholding on those payments under the terms of a tax treaty between the US and your country of tax residence, then complete Part II. On line 9, enter the name of your country of tax residence. On line 10, enter: The number of the treaty's Article and/or Paragraph which authorizes the benefits you are claiming. The reduced withholding rate (%) that applies in your situation. The type of income UC pays that qualifies for the treaty benefit (for example, Scholarship income). Part III -- Certification Sign and print your name, and add the date, on the applicable lines. Guidance on completing Form W-8BEN-E right arrow down arrow For foreign business entities: Please use the current version of Form W-8BEN-E and IRS Instructions, which are also available on the IRS website. Form W-8BEN-E is only to be used by foreign business entities. Foreign individuals who are not resident aliens for US tax purposes must use Form W-8BEN. If not otherwise directed, submit your Form W-8BEN-E to us at: University of Cincinnati Tax Compliance Office PO Box 210641 Cincinnati, OH 45221-0641 A Word of Caution and Encouragement -- The IRS Form W-8BEN-E is rather long, with 8 pages containing 30 parts. Don't worry, you will only have to complete a few specific sections, and the vast majority of this form will not apply to you at all. See our guidance below. Additional guidance for Forms W-8BEN-E submitted to UC includes: PART/LINE # ITEM INSTRUCTIONS Line 1 Name of Organization Enter the entity's legal name. Line 2 Country of incorporation or organization Enter the entity's home country. This can not be the US. Line 3 Name of disregarded entity, if applicable This does not apply to most UC payees. See the IRS Instructions if you have questions. Line 4 Chapter 3 status / Entity Type You must check the box that represents your classification under US (not home country) tax principles. For most UC payees, this will be Corporation. Line 5 Chapter 4 status / FATCA status This sections uses a lot of terms that are unfamiliar to most people. The vast majority of UC payees, conducting business activities, should check the box marked Active NFFE, near the end of the list. Then, flip forward to Part XXV (on page 7), and check the box on line 39. Line 6 Permanent residence address Enter your physical address in the country where you are a tax resident. Do not enter a Post Office Box or its equivalent. Line 7 Mailing address, if different This may be a US address, and may be a Post Office Box or its equivalent. Line 8 US Taxpayer Identification Number If you have a US Employer Identification Number (EIN), enter that. If you do not have a US EIN, then leave line 5 blank. Do not enter a Canadian Social Insurance Number here. Line 9a GIIN This will not apply to most UC payees. This only applies to entities that have registered with IRS specifically for FATCA (Chapter 4) purposes. Line 9b Foreign TIN You may enter the entity's tax identifying number from its home country here. Part III -- Claim of Tax Treaty Benefits You only need to complete Part III if you are claiming reduced US tax withholding under the terms of a tax treaty between the US and the entity's country of tax residence. Part XXX -- Certification Sign and print your name. Enter the date. Check the box certifying your individual authority to sign for the entity. Division of Administration and Finance University Pavilion, Suite 630 2618 McMicken Circle PO Box 210620 Cincinnati, OH 45221-0620 UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati Division of Administration and Finance University Pavilion, Suite 630 2618 McMicken Circle PO Box 210620 Cincinnati, OH 45221-0620 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top