Utah State University sites use cookies. By continuing to use this site you accept our privacy and cookie policy. I agree Skip to content Apply Visit Give Calendar A-Z Index Directory Libraries QUICK LINKS MyUSU SEARCH Utah State TODAY Close search Search Utah State University: I want to search All USU sites People Search terms Submit search × Utah State TODAY Open main menu Close Open search Home Explore Stories Close Explore Stories Arts & Humanities Business & Society Health & Wellness Land & Environment Science & Technology Teaching & Learning Campus Life Athletics University Affairs Series Topics In Focus All Stories Resources Close Resources Subscribe USU Pressroom USU in the News Submission Instructions Submit a Press Release Contact us Quick Links Close Quick Links Apply Visit Give Calendar A-Z Index Directory Libraries MyUSU Teaching & Learning Back With A Bang: USU Physics Day at Lagoon Welcomes Aspiring Scientists, Engineers Aggie alum and Physics Day volunteer Brad Christensen '94 shares the importance of STEM outreach at annual amusement park event By Mary-Ann Muffoletto | May 24, 2022 Full Size After a two-year pandemic hiatus, USU Physics Day at Lagoon returned May 13, 2022, for a day of thrills, chills and STEM learning fun. (Photo: M. Muffoletto) × Download Close Download If Utah State University Physics Day organizers wondered whether Intermountain teens had missed the annual gathering of STEM learning fun at Utah’s Lagoon amusement park during pandemic conditions, the answer displayed during the event’s return on May 13, 2022, was a resounding yes. After a two-year pause, the gathering drew a larger-than-anticipated crowd of more than 7,500 youths and teachers from 120 schools in Utah and surrounding states to the Davis County über-playground for a day of gut-churning learning fun. “We hadn’t met in person since 2019 and didn’t think we’d get pre-COVID attendance numbers, so it was great to see a crowd of students, teachers, alumni and volunteers again,” said USU Physics Professor J.R. Dennison, an organizer and founder of the three-decades-old event. Among the volunteers excited to be back in person was Aggie alum Brad Christensen, principal software engineer with Ophir-Spiricon Products — MKS Instruments, Inc. in North Logan, Utah. Christensen, who earned a bachelor’s degree in computer science from USU in 1994, suggested participation in USU Physics Day years ago to his company’s CEO, who agreed the STEM outreach event would be a “great way to give back” to the community. “Except for the 2020-2021 pause, our company, including me, has participated in every Physics Day since 2013,” Christensen says. “I personally find a lot of joy in meeting with teens who are excited about science and eager to learn more.” At any given event, he says it’s not unusual for him to speak with as many as 200 students and teachers. His nine-plus years of outreach experience have taught him how to engage youngsters and get them thinking about STEM careers. “If I tell them I’m a software engineer, it doesn’t spark much excitement,” Christensen says. “But if I show them a hands-on demonstration related to the kinds of work our company does — uses of light and laser profiling — it really piques their interest. It’s especially gratifying when students go and bring their friends back to our booth to take a look.” Teachers also visit his booth, asking for help in setting up similar demonstrations for their classrooms and inviting the Cache Valley company to their schools’ STEM fairs. “Last year, 15 schools in our local community asked us to visit their campuses,” Christensen says. “We couldn’t accommodate all of them, but staffed as many as we could with employee volunteers.” In addition to demonstrations, Physics Day scholars participated in the day’s popular Sky Ride Egg Drop Contest, in which the teens drop raw eggs in protective containers of their own design to a ground target, as well as the Colossal Colossus G-Forces Contest, during which participants measure G-forces on the Colossus Fire Dragon with self-built wrist accelerometers while zooming through the rollercoaster’s giant loops. Among the day’s most intense academic events was the annual Physics Bowl competition. Champion teams were Utah’s Morgan High School, which took first place; Utah’s American Fork High School, which placed second; and Green Canyon High School in North Logan, Utah, which was the third-place winner. Dennison says a concern with the in-person return was rising transportation costs. “We heard from a lot of teachers who said they were hard-pressed to raise the necessary funds to cover bus costs,” he says. “To that end, we added information about the Utah Transit Authority’s Frontrunner rail system to our website to offer a cost-effective alternative. We hope use of this resource will continue to grow and help our future Physics Day participants.” USU Physics Day at Lagoon is coordinated by USU’s Department of Physics and Idaho National Laboratory. The event receives funding support from a host of public and private sponsors. Full Size Utah's Morgan High School Physics Bowl Team, from left, Jacob Karren, Cache Talbot and Drake White, placed first in the annual academic competition at USU Physics Day at Lagoon. (Photo: M. Muffoletto) × Download Close Download WRITER Mary-Ann Muffoletto Public Relations Specialist College of Science 435-797-3517 maryann.muffoletto@usu.edu CONTACT J.R. Dennison Professor Department of Physics 435-797-2936 jr.dennison@usu.edu TOPICS Physics 80stories STEM 52stories K-12 38stories Comments and questions regarding this article may be directed to the contact person listed on this page. Next Story in Teaching & Learning May 19, 2022 847 2nd Indigenous Knowledge Symposium Connects Cultural Teachings, Scientific World The MESAS program recently hosted its second annual Indigenous Knowledge Symposium. Read the Story See Also May 13, 2022 911 Utah State University Faculty Receive National Credential in Teaching Excellence Faculty members were recognized for earning a nationally recognized teaching credential co-endorsed by the Association of College and University Educators and the American Council on Education during a pinning ceremony on May 9. Trending on Utah State Today Read the Story HEALTH & WELLNESS May 19, 2022 165461 Update for USU Community on Coronavirus Read the Story UNIVERSITY AFFAIRS May 02, 2022 2707 USU Names Irungu Inaugural VP of Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Read the Story UNIVERSITY AFFAIRS May 26, 2022 2643 Degree Programs Realigned to Create New Department at Utah State University Read the Story UNIVERSITY AFFAIRS May 03, 2022 2627 Utah State University to Award More Than 7,000 Degrees in 2022 FOLLOW US USU Facebook USU Twitter USU YouTube USU Instagram USU LinkedIn Old Main Hill, Logan, UT 84322 (435) 797-1000 EXPLORE STORIES Browse Archives Explore Topics Explore Series USU in the News FOR THE MEDIA Pressroom Media Contacts Media resources About USU SUBSCRIBE Receive our weekly newsletter. Subscribe to Utah State Today Email Subscribe Maps & Directions Search USU Campus Safety Jobs Contact Disclaimers Copyright Privacy Accessibility Non-Discrimination Back to top of the page