Continuing Education Programs Custom Training Services Sign In Sign In About Us Programs Custom Training Services Conference Services Continuing Education Units (CEUs) Custom Training Facility Rental Resources Sign In Support UCF Alumni and Faculty/Staff Discounts Teach for Us Area Hotels Enrollment Information Join Our Newsletter Email Address Sign Up Contact Us PHONE:407-882-0260 866-232-5834 EMAIL:ceprograms@ucf.edu LOCATION: We are located next to UCF's Main Campus on Research Parkway. Parking is free. 12351 Research Parkway RM 113 Orlando, FL 32826 Get Directions Accounting and Finance Arts Communications Computer Training Conferences and Events Customer Service, Sales, and Marketing Degree Programs Engineering and Technology Human Resources Insurance Language Law Leadership, Management, and Supervision Lifestyle and Wellness Medical Nonprofit Management Project Management Test Preparation Tools for Teachers Writing and Reading Sign In About Us Programs Custom Training Services Conference Services Continuing Education Units (CEUs) Custom Training Facility Rental Resources Sign In Support UCF Alumni and Faculty/Staff Discounts Teach for Us Area Hotels Enrollment Information Join Our Newsletter Email Address Sign Up Contact Us PHONE:407-882-0260 866-232-5834 EMAIL:ceprograms@ucf.edu LOCATION: We are located next to UCF's Main Campus on Research Parkway. Parking is free. 12351 Research Parkway RM 113 Orlando, FL 32826 Get Directions Accounting and Finance Arts Communications Computer Training Conferences and Events Customer Service, Sales, and Marketing Degree Programs Engineering and Technology Human Resources Insurance Language Law Leadership, Management, and Supervision Lifestyle and Wellness Medical Nonprofit Management Project Management Test Preparation Tools for Teachers Writing and Reading Search Support Account Courses Registration Support Account Course Access Sign In to the webpage In the accounts summary page you can view your list of courses Create an Account In order to register for courses online, you must have an account with UCF Continuing Education. Creating an account also gives you online access to view your registration history, change your address and more. You can go to our Sign In page to create a new account. Note: you must have an email address to set up an account with us. The email address cannot be assigned to another user in our system. If the email address is assigned to another user, you will be notified and given the opportunity to enter a new email address. Forgot Password If you have forgotten your password or have issues accessing your online courses please reset your password. Go to the forgot password page, enter your email address and press submit. You will then recieved an email with instructions on how to reset your password. If you continue expierencing issues please contact us at 407-882-0260 or email us at ce@ucf.edu Courses Courses Offered We offer a wide range of courses in different areas and levels. Please browse our category list to find an area of interest. Link browse to Registration Cancellation Policy Please review refund and cancellation policy in our enrollment section. How to cancel a course Please review refund and cancellation policy in our enrollment section. Payment Methods We accept Visa, MasterCard, American Express, and Discover. Register for a course Navigate to the Program page by: Click the Programs menu button. Then click the program category of your interest. On the Program Category page click the program you wish view. OR Click the Search icon on the menu section. Type the name of the program you are interested in The program will display in the autocomplete section Click on the program of your interest If you program does not appear click on the Search button and it will take you to the advance search page. On the Program page: Click on the Enroll Now button This will take you to additional registration options In the Registration Options section, select your registration cost and click the Enroll button If you are not logged in it will be added to your cart. Click on the View cart hyperlink or the cart icon in the top menu to checkout Checkout: You must sign in to the website Click on the Cart icon on the go to the cart summary page Review the courses you wish to take Read the refund policies per course Then click the checkboxes agreeing to the terms and conditions Click the Checkout button On the Checkout page confirm your information is correct and Continue to the payment section Payment After your payment has successfully been submitted your courses will appear in your account summary page We accept Visa, MasterCard, American Express, and Discover. Support Contact Hours: Monday - Friday, 8 a.m. - 5 p.m. Email : ce@ucf.edu Phone : 407-882-0260 Toll Free : Toll Free: 866-232-5834 Address: 3280 Progress Drive Suite 700 Orlando, FL 32826 Complaint The University of Central Florida supports the right of students to file grievances, lodge complaints, and make appeals in a safe environment free of fear, retaliation, or other adverse consequence. The University has a number of offices and committees that are responsible for implementing the institution's established procedures for addressing written academic and non-academic student complaints. In most cases, the recommended strategy for complaints of any nature is to ask the concerned individual to first contact the person or office most directly connected to the issue, unless there are compelling reasons not to do so (University contact information can be found at https://www.ucf.edu/directories/). If the concerned individual does not want to contact a faculty or staff member directly, he or she begins with the next highest level of authority, which typically is the department chair or director. If the problem or complaint is unresolved or the individual is not satisfied with the resolution, he or she may file a written grievance or appeal in most cases. Specific procedures included are in specific sections of the Catalog and The Golden Rule (http://goldenrule.sdes.ucf.edu) UCF Division of Continuing Education students who have an academic complaint should contact the UCF Division of Continuing Education Coordinator for their program at 407-882-0260. UCF Division of Continuing Education students who have a complaint of discrimination, harassment, sexual violence, or misconduct should contact the Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action Office at 407-823-1336 or the Office of Student Rights and Responsibilities at 407-823-4683. UCF Division of Continuing Education students who have a non-academic complaint should: Contact Customer Service for the UCF Division of Continuing Education at 407-882-0260 or ce@ucf.edu located at 3280 Progress Drive, Suite 700, Orlando, FL 32826. State the nature of the complaint (oral or written) and suggest outcomes for resolution when appropriate. Complaints will be acknowledged within 3 days of receipt and the student will be given an estimated timeline for resolution. The complaint will remain confidential and every attempt will be made to provide a fair, timely, and acceptable solution for all involved parties. Resolutions will be timely (based on the complexity of the situation) and will focus on improvements to service provisions. Reasons for the decision will be shared in writing with the student. No student shall suffer negative consequences for filing a complaint. For complaints related to the services provided by a partnership organization, students should contact UCF Division of Continuing Education Customer Service at 407-882-0260 for an appropriate referral. In addition to these channels, the Ombuds Office is an informal, impartial, independent, and confidential resource for all members of the University community. It is not an office of notice of wrongdoing and cannot participate in any formal grievance or appeal process. The Office provides assistance and advice regarding concerns related to the University. These services are available to every member of the University community: students, staff, faculty, and others. Any type of concern may be brought to the attention of this office: academic, financial, housing, consumer, work-related, or personal. (http://www.ombuds.ucf.edu/) Division of Continuing Education 12351 Research Parkway RM 113 Orlando, FL 32826 ce@ucf.edu Phone: 407-882-0260 Fax: 407-882-0266 Toll Free: 866-232-5834 Hours: Monday - Friday, 8 a.m. - 5 p.m. Quick Links Sign In Support Custom Training Teach for us Join Newsletter Job Opportunities Privacy Policy A division of Digital Learning © University of Central Florida × Close