Skip to main content Menu Resources Home Admissions Campus Life Academics Visit Outreach Research About Apply or Give Apply Now Make a Gift Harvey and Lucinda Gantt Multicultural Center Women's Celebration Month Women’s History Month is a celebration of women’s contributions to history, culture and society and has been observed annually in the month of March in the United States since 1987. In celebration of Women’s History Month 2022 Clemson University is hosting a series of events and activities throughout the month of March. Women’s Celebration Month activities will occur over Zoom (pre-registration may be required) or in person (Clemson’s COVID-19 policy will be implemented). The programs are listed below, and we encourage the campus and local community participation. Please reach out to co-chairs Robert Bryant and Kim Carter with any questions. The 2022 Women's Celebration Month keynote lecture with Dr. Juanita Johnson-Bailey. Dr. Juanita Johnson-Bailey, 2018 University Professor, holds the Josiah Meigs Distinguished Teaching Professorship and is the Director of the Institute for Women’s Studies and a professor in the Department of Lifelong Education, Administration and Policy at The University of Georgia. Her book, Sistahs in College: Making a Way Out of No Way (Krieger Press, 2001), received the Phillip E. Frandson Award for Literature in Continuing Higher Education and the Sadie T. Mossell Alexander Award for Outstanding Scholarship in Black Women’s Studies. She is also the co-editor of Flat-Footed Truths: Telling Black Women’s Lives (Henry Holt, 1998), and the Handbook of Race in Adult Education (Jossey-Bass, 2010). She was the 2015 recipient of the Eleanor Roosevelt Fund Award, an honor given by the American Association of University Women (AAUW) for outstanding contributions to equality and education for women and girls. Home About The Gantts Dialogue Initiatives Intercultural Development Inventory International Festival LGBTQ Programs MLK Celebration Multicultural Programs Black History Month Hispanic and Latinx Heritage Month Programs and Events Student Outreach and Support Women's Celebration Month Asian Pacific Islander Desi Awareness Month Presentations and Outreach Contact Us Related Links Diversity and Inclusion Office of Inclusion and Equity Global Engagement Home Admissions Campus Life Academics Visit Outreach Research About Apply To Clemson Undergraduate Graduate Professional Online Education Employment Opportunities Policy/Terms of Use Text Version Web Accessibility Ethics/Safety Hotline Privacy Policy Site Information Copyright © 2022 Clemson University Clemson, South Carolina 29634 864-656-3311 Contact Clemson Stories for the Clemson Family Clemson University on Facebook Clemson University on Twitter Clemson University on LinkedIn Clemson University on Flickr Clemson University on Instagram