Skip to main content Skip to main navigation External Affairs Menu Connect About Us Contact Us Events & Opportunities Waco Leadership Experience Envisioning Equity Gil Taylor Behavioral Health Series 2021 Gil Taylor Behavioral Health Symposium 2020 Gil Taylor Behavioral Health Series Previous 2022 Gil Taylor Events Publications Social & Economic Impact Report 19-20 Waco Culture Guide Baylor Campus Engagement Guide Social & Economic Impact Report 20-21 Community Leadership Ambassador Council Baylor/Waco Foundation Baylor/Waco Foundation Past Projects Solid Gold Neighbor Economic Development Health Education Cultural Wealth City Growth The Collective Capacity Grantmaking Recognition Champions of Change Stories Strategy Institutional Events CCSI Make a Gift External Affairs The office of External Affairs is inspired to lead, engage, support and celebrate the collective impact of Waco and Baylor. UNITED FOR WACO Explore Solid Gold Neighbor Initiative Encompassing the City of Waco, we strive to serve the community in partnership with leaders and organizations that strongly believe in the potential of our city. Read More The Collective We support local nonprofits and organizations through leveraging university-wide resources in support of the Waco community. Read More Community Leadership As a regular and consistent participant in community activities, council, and committees, we provide ambassadorship on behalf of Baylor University. Read More Waco Explore Baylor's hometown through cultural, social and recreational opportunities and programs through discounts, giveaways and more. Read More Waco Leaders Panels Our Leadership panels bring together Waco-area leaders for discussions relevant to our students and local community members. Learn about current events or view previous panels. Learn More Christian Collective for Social Innovation The Christian Collective for Social Innovation connects social innovators seeking to solve the world's most pressing and complex local problems with a marketplace defined by Christian values, that emphasizes transformational relationships, and provides access to capital, know-how, peers, and publicity. Learn More MatchWaco: Building Better Boards MatchWaco offers an outlet for individuals to get involved in leadership positions that directly affect Waco.The platform helps align individuals and non-profit organizations based upon strengths, skills and organizational need. Learn More Waco Leadership Experience Baylor University and the Greater Waco Chamber are joining forces to offer a one-of-a-kind immersive, onsite leadership experience in Orlando, Florida with peer community and business leaders to learn and apply leadership and business excellence principles from Parks and Resorts leaders. Learn More Stories Read More Stories Mar. 31, 2022 Cesar Chavez Day Cesar Chavez Day is an American national commemorative holiday aimed to celebrate the birth and enduring legacy of the American civil rights and labor movement activist Cesar Chavez, on March 31st. Read More Mar. 29, 2022 Pre-K Academy Quality professional development is a high priority for Waco ISD and that was witnessed as 150 Waco ISD early childhood educators and EOAC/Head Start gathered to learn together from Conscious Discipline expert, Kim Jackson. Read More Mar. 8, 2022 Introducing inWaco The Greater Waco Chamber of Commerce hears often from employers about their needs whether they range from access to new customers or training for existing employees. Over the past year, however, employers have changed their tune. Talent is the buzzword du jour! As the great resignation commences following the initial phases of the COVID-19 pandemic, many businesses small and large began to experience difficulty in recruiting and retaining employees. The Greater Waco Chamber, in partnership with the City of Waco, McLennan County, and a half dozen employers came to the rescue with an exciting new initiative entitled inWaco! Read More Feb. 7, 2022 The History Behind Black History Month What began as Negro History Week in 1926 has since grown into a national celebration of the successes, perseverance, and hopes of black people. The vision of Dr. Carter G. Woodson and his Association for the Study of African American Life and History foresaw not the designating of black history to a specific timeframe but the weaving of this history into the mainstream story of America. Nevertheless, in 1976 Negro History Week expanded into the Black History Month we acknowledge today. Each year during the month of February we recognize leaders, scholars, activists, entertainers, and trailblazers, illuminating the experiences of African Americans across generations. Read More Economic Development Health Education Cultural Wealth City Growth External Affairs Harris House 1315 S. 7th St. Waco, TX 76706 One Bear Place #97101 Waco, TX 76798 External_Affairs@baylor.edu General Information Colleges, Schools, Libraries & Research Admissions Administration Gateways For... About Baylor Anonymous Reporting Athletics Ask Baylor Bookstore Calendar Campus Map Directory Give Light Give to Baylor Illuminate Mental Health Resources News Pro Futuris Report It Search Social Media Title IX Baylor Libraries College of Arts & Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work George W. Truett Theological Seminary Graduate School Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Louise Herrington School of Nursing Research at Baylor University Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Engineering & Computer Science School of Music More Academics Undergraduate Admissions goBAYLOR Graduate Admissions Baylor Law School Admissions Social Work Graduate Programs George W. Truett Theological Seminary Admissions Online Graduate Professional Education Virtual Tour Visit Campus Annual Fire Safety and Security Notice Athletics Human Resources Marketing and Communications Office of General Counsel Office of the President Office of the Provost Operations, Finance & Administration Senior Administration Student Life University Advancement Baylor Alumni Faculty & Staff Online Graduate Professional Education Parents Prospective Faculty & Staff Prospective Students Students Copyright © Baylor® University. All rights reserved. Legal Disclosures. Baylor University • Waco, Texas 76798 • 1-800-229-5678 Connect About Us Contact Us Events & Opportunities Waco Leadership Experience Envisioning Equity Gil Taylor Behavioral Health Series 2021 Gil Taylor Behavioral Health Symposium 2020 Gil Taylor Behavioral Health Series Previous 2022 Gil Taylor Events Publications Social & Economic Impact Report 19-20 Waco Culture Guide Baylor Campus Engagement Guide Social & Economic Impact Report 20-21 Community Leadership Ambassador Council Baylor/Waco Foundation Baylor/Waco Foundation Past Projects Solid Gold Neighbor Economic Development Health Education Cultural Wealth City Growth The Collective Capacity Grantmaking Recognition Champions of Change Stories Strategy Institutional Events CCSI Make a Gift