Skip to main content Google Tag Manager Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Prospective Newly Admitted Current Alumni Columbia University School of General Studies Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Admissions Educational Financing Academics Student Services About Undergraduate Admissions How to Apply Eligibility Application Deadlines and Decisions Information Sessions/Campus Visits Transfer Students Postbac Premed Admissions How to Apply Eligibility Application Deadlines and Decisions Information Sessions/Campus Visits Newly Admitted Students International Students Planning Day Placement Exams University-Wide Placement Exams U.S. Military Veterans International Dual Degree Programs Types of Financial Aid Institutional Scholarships Federal and State Grants Loans Private Scholarships and Grants Student Employment Financial Aid for Military Veterans Post-9/11 GI Bill® and the Yellow Ribbon Program Veterans Request for Certification Cost of Attendance Applying for Financial Aid Prospective Students Newly Admitted Students Current Students University Employees Postbac Premed Students Counseling Appointments Enrollment Update Form Student Account Refunds Undergraduate The Core Curriculum Degree Fulfillment Course Listings Majors and Concentrations Research Opportunities Study Abroad Academic Calendar Postbac Premed Program Curriculum & Courses Sample Schedule Course Listings Preparatory Coursework Previously Completed Coursework Glide Year Master’s Programs Academic Calendar Applying to Medical School General Admission Linkage Admission Linkage Specific Program Requirements Reapplicants Letters of Recommendation Academic Policies Registration Enrollment and Courseload Leaves and Withdrawals Academic Integrity and Standards Faculty of Arts and Sciences Undergraduate Announcements Postbac Premed Announcements Academic Advising Academic Resource Center Programs & Services Jumpstart Series Tutoring Peer Advising Campus Services Forms and Guides Graduation Health and Wellness Housing International Students Medical School Fair Planning Your Future Accelerated Master's Programs Fellowships and Research Premedical Clinical and Research Positions Student Life Leadership Development Multicultural & Social Justice Education Programs Student Organizations Upcoming Events Veterans Resources and Initiatives Leadership Mission History Statistics and Facts Notable Alumni University Policies Events Staff Directory Faculty News Press Coverage Media Inquiries School of General Studies You are here: Home Student Services Academic Resource Center Jumpstart Series Jumpstart Series Doing well at Columbia involves highly developed academic skills—skills that are not always intuitive and that go beyond understanding the content of classes. To help Jumpstart your first semester at Columbia and get a clear understanding of what it takes to succeed, new students are invited to attend a week of workshops designed and run by the Academic Resource Center (ARC) to help build academic skills in context. Summer Jumpstart 2022 will take place August 22 - 26, 2022. Expand all Collapse all You Are Welcome: Getting to Know Our Community and Campus Culture Becoming part of the Columbia undergraduate community is about more than just going to classes. You are joining a talented, passionate, resilient group of student scholars, along with a dedicated staff and faculty eager to get to know you and to be on your Columbia team. Learn more about who we are as a community, and how we can support you in your first semester at GS and beyond. Classroom Skills in Context It is difficult to cultivate classroom skills in the abstract. To learn to take stellar notes, you need to know what you will be taking notes about, a good sense of the pace of lectures or discussions, and to know what you are expected to take away. That is where this series steps in. Preview a Columbia classroom run by GS staff and faculty, and get a head start refreshing and strengthening classroom skills. How to Read Hard Things, and Talk about Them At Columbia, speaking the language of a text does not always guarantee that you will understand what it says. And understanding a text does not always mean you feel prepared to talk about it. Work with us to learn strategies for approaching difficult readings and engaging in class discussions, and get a head start on texts that have tripped up many intrepid readers in the past. How Research Works Columbia University is a world renowned research institution. But what does that really mean? What does a researcher do day to day? How does the incredible wealth of research happening on our campus impact the student experience? And how can undergraduates get involved? The ARC has partnered with GS Academic Affairs to answer these questions and more, and to help you launch your research career from your first semester on campus. The Science of Doing Science (Summer Only) There is a science to learning science (and math) at high levels. Columbia teaches math and science at the highest of levels, and the learning curve—for mastering the content and the necessary learning strategies—can be steep. The ARC team has spent a lot of time studying the science of doing science, and we are excited to teach you what we have learned. Work with us to learn how to prepare for lectures, how to approach problem sets, the advantages of working in groups, and other secrets to success. All the Math You Don't Remember (Summer Only) Not everyone was enrolled in a high school math class last year – and that's okay. To help students review, refresh, and even learn for the first time the foundational math that will be expected in the Columbia classroom, the ARC team offers this online summer option combining a curated self-paced curriculum with one-on-one support from math tutors. Webform Summer 2022 Jumpstart Series Registration Columbia UNI Your Name (First & Last) Columbia Email Address Student Status GS Undergraduate Postbac Premed First Semester at GS Fall 2022 Summer 2022 Spring 2022 Fall 2021 Summer 2021 Spring 2021 Fall 2020 Summer 2020 Submit Contact For more information, email [email protected]. Admissions Undergraduate Admissions Postbac Premed Admissions Newly Admitted Students U.S. Military Veterans International Dual Degree Programs Educational Financing Types of Financial Aid Financial Aid for Military Veterans Cost of Attendance Applying for Financial Aid Counseling Appointments Enrollment Update Form Student Account Refunds Academics Undergraduate Postbac Premed Program Applying to Medical School Academic Policies Faculty of Arts and Sciences Student Services Undergraduate Announcements Postbac Premed Announcements Academic Advising Academic Resource Center Campus Services Forms and Guides Graduation Health and Wellness Housing International Students Medical School Fair Planning Your Future Premedical Clinical and Research Positions Student Life Veterans Resources and Initiatives About Leadership Mission History Statistics and Facts Notable Alumni University Policies Events Staff Directory Faculty News Press Coverage Media Inquiries Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close