Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Registrar About Register Students Veterans Faculty & Staff Forms Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact Students Enrollment Verification Grades OverviewGPA and Grading ScaleGrade ChangeFAQ Transcripts OverviewOfficialUnofficialLambuth UniversityFAQ Reverse Transfer FERPA and Student Educational Records Annual FERPA NotificationRelease of Student Education Record Student Right-to-Know Information Changing Personal Data Withdrawing from UofM OverviewLate/Retroactive Withdrawal Self Service Guides Take Action View Calendars Order Transcripts View Notices Contact Us Home Registrar Students Changing Personal Data Changing Personal Data Any student wishing to change the personal data on their University record should complete the appropriate request form (the forms are linked below). Submit the form and the required supporting documentation/identification to the Registrar's Office in one of the following ways: Secure upload: https://securefile.memphis.edu/form/rsu In Person: 003 Wilder Tower Mail: Registrar’s Office / 003 Wilder Tower University of Memphis / Memphis, TN 38152-3520 Name To change your legal name on all records at the University of Memphis, complete the Request for Name Change on Official University Record form. Supporting documentation is required. If you have questions about changing your name, contact us. Preferred Name To add a preferred name, complete the Preferred Name Request form. A photo ID will be required. If you want your legal name to appear on all University records, you should submit a Request for Name Change on Official University Record form. Social Security Number (SSN) Graduate students requesting an SSN entry on their account should contact graduateadmissions@memphis.edu. All other students should complete the Social Security Number Correction or Addition form. A copy of your Social Security card is required. Date of Birth To correct the date of birth associated with your student record, complete the Date of Birth Correction form. Supporting documentation is required. Legal Sex Use the Request to Update Legal Sex on Official University Record form to indicate a change in your legal sex as recorded on your University record. Documentation must accompany the form. Address You may view all of the following addresses using the portal, and update all except for Campus Box. To update an address, login to the portal and select My Resources under Student Pages. Click on "Update Addresses and Phones" in the Personal Information portlet. Note: Every 90 days, the University verifies student addresses with the US Postal Service (USPS). Your Mailing and/or Local addresses may be updated from the USPS file. You might notice slight format changes in your addresses based on this update. Address Types and Update Information Campus Box This is a campus PO Box that you rent through Mail Services; it receives top priority when the University mails you important information. You cannot update your Campus Box. However, when you no longer need the box, you should contact Mail Services to request that the box be closed as well as to leave a forwarding address as well. Mailing Address If you have no Campus Box, this address receives top priority when the University mails you important information. It can be a PO Box as well as residence. International Students - If you use a PO Box as a Mailing address and do not live in a Residence Hall, you must also supply a Local address (see below). Student Family Housing Residents - Use your Student Family Housing address as your Mailing address. Local Address This is your Memphis area address--where you live while enrolled. It must be a physical address, not a PO Box. Domestic Students - You may have a Local address if you do not live at your Mailing address. International Students - You must enter and maintain a Local address if your Local residence does not match your Mailing address. Next-of-Kin (NOK) Address You can maintain two NOK addresses for relatives the University can contact. Note: Only addresses can be updated. If you need to update the person and/or relationship listed, you must contact Student and Faculty Services at 901.678.2810, 003 Wilder Tower. Emergency Contact Address This is the address of someone the University can contact in an emergency. Restrict/Release Restriction of Directory Information Any student wishing to restrict Directory Information or release the restriction of Directory Information should complete the appropriate form and submit the form, along with a photo ID, to the Registrar's Office in one of the ways listed at the top of the page. See Release of Student Education Records (What is Directory Information?) for instructions and related information. Restrict Directory Information If you cannot login to iAM to restrict your directory information electronically, complete a Request to Restrict the Release of Directory Information form to prevent your Directory Information from being published in the Campus Directory. A photo ID will be required. Release/Remove Restriction of Directory Information Use the Request to Release/Remove Restriction of Directory Information form if you have previously elected to restrict your directory information and now would like to remove that restriction. A photo ID will be required. Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 11/9/21 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.