Skip to main content Navigation Academics Admissions Research Locations Student Life Alumni & Giving Athletics Apply Now Photography AS to BS Program at a Glance Program Bachelor College(s) College of Arts and Humanities Department(s) Visual Arts & Design, Schl of In State Tuition Out of State Tuition $212.28 per credit hour $748.89 per credit hour Learn more about program tuition and fees. This 2+2 degree program is offered by UCF on the Daytona Beach Campus. The B.S. in Photography degree prepares students for professional practice with strong technical, creative and critical skills. Photography is also available as an area of specialization on the Orlando campus through the School of Visual Arts and Design (SVAD) as part of the Art, Studio Track (B.A.) and Studio Art (B.F.A.) programs. As part of the program, some courses study the form and proportion of the human figure. Nude models are used as reference. Admission Requirements Completion of an A.S. in Photographic Technology from Daytona State College or equivalent coursework. Degree Requirements Students who change degree programs and select this major must adopt the most current catalog. Departmental Residency Requirement consists of at least 36 semester hours of regularly scheduled 3000-4000 level courses taken from the UCF School of Visual Arts and Design Students must earn at least a "C" (2.0) in each required upper level course and achieve an overall GPA of at least 2.0 Upper-division electives, internship credit, and course substitutions must be approved by the program coordinator. Students should consult with a Photography advisor before selecting this major, and at least once per semester thereafter. View Full Description Undergraduate Application Deadlines Freshmen Transfers International Fall May 1 Spring November 1 Summer March 1 Fall July 1 Spring November 1 Summer March 1 Fall March 1 Spring September 1 Summer January 1 Ready to get started? Apply Today Career Opportunities UCF prepares you for life beyond the classroom. Here, you’ll experience a wide range of opportunity, like learning diverse skills from world-renowned faculty to networking with top employers across Central Florida to gaining first-hand experience in internships nearby. Achieve your degree and more as a Knight. Advertising Photographer Aerial Photographer Ballet Professor Graphic Design Professor Industrial Photographer Medical Photographer Music Professor News Photographer Newspaper Photojournalist Photography Professor Photojournalist Piano Performance and Pedagogy Professor Piano Professor Portrait Photographer Scene and Lighting Design Lecturer School Photographer Stagecraft Professor Theatre Professor Voice Professor Wedding Photographer Show More Career Opportunities Degree Search College of Arts and Humanities programs Bachelors Photography AS to BS University of Central Florida Colleges Burnett Honors Business Community Innovation and Education Engineering and Computer Science Graduate Studies Health Professions and Sciences Medicine Nursing Optics and Photonics Sciences Undergraduate Studies Hospitality Management × This 2+2 degree program is offered by UCF on the Daytona Beach Campus. The B.S. in Photography degree prepares students for professional practice with strong technical, creative and critical skills. Photography is also available as an area of specialization on the Orlando campus through the School of Visual Arts and Design (SVAD) as part of the Art, Studio Track (B.A.) and Studio Art (B.F.A.) programs. As part of the program, some courses study the form and proportion of the human figure. Nude models are used as reference. Admission Requirements Completion of an A.S. in Photographic Technology from Daytona State College or equivalent coursework. Degree Requirements Students who change degree programs and select this major must adopt the most current catalog. Departmental Residency Requirement consists of at least 36 semester hours of regularly scheduled 3000-4000 level courses taken from the UCF School of Visual Arts and Design Students must earn at least a "C" (2.0) in each required upper level course and achieve an overall GPA of at least 2.0 Upper-division electives, internship credit, and course substitutions must be approved by the program coordinator. Students should consult with a Photography advisor before selecting this major, and at least once per semester thereafter. Degree Requirements Core Requirements: Basic Level 49 Total Credits Earn at least 49 credits from the following types of courses: Completed A.S. in Photographic Technology at Daytona State College, or equivalent coursework Core Requirements: Advanced Level 30 Total Credits Earn at least 30 credits from the following: ARH3710 - History of Photography I (3) PGY3002 - Contemporary Photography (3) PGY3205C - Photographic Lighting Techniques (3) PGY3276 - The Professional Environment (3) PGY3472C - Photo Visualization (3) PGY3653C - Advanced Editorial Photography (3) PGY3751C - Videography (3) PGY3821C - Advanced Digital Printing (3) PGY4003 - Image, Culture, and Society (3) PGY4228C - Advanced Illustrative Photography (3) Restricted Electives 6 Total Credits Complete all of the following Complete at least 2 of the following: PGY3451C - Alternative Processes (3) PGY3480 - Museum and Gallery Practices (3) PGY4235C - Professional Photographic Workshop (3) PGY4493C - Photography and Art (3) PGY 4941 - Internship Credit Hours: 3 Capstone Requirements 3 Total Credits Complete the following: PGY4471C - Photography Thesis (3) Grand Total Credits: 88 University of Central Florida About UCF Contact Us Faculty Online Degrees Policies Privacy Notice Public Records Regulations Report a Concern UCF News 4000 Central Florida Blvd. Orlando, Florida, 32816 | 407.823.2000 © University of Central Florida