Skip Navigation California State University, Fullerton Site Menu Division of Student Affairs Housing and Residential Engagement Main Navigation About Us Show Extended Mission Meet Our Staff Contact Us Student Employment and Leadership Opportunities Parking Information Student Housing Policies Current Residents Show Extended Payment Information Resident Mailing Addresses Wi-Fi for Entertainment Devices Lockouts Dining Services FAQ's Submit a Maintenance Request The Gastronome Community Market Future Residents Show Extended Housing Information Housing Communities Student Housing Suites How to Apply for Housing Payment Information Theme Communities What to Bring on Move-in Day International Students International Programs & Global Engagement On-Campus Housing for International Students Housing Tours Tour Information Campus Tours Residential Engagement Show Extended Residential Engagement Faculty in Residence Theme Communities Housing Policies Of The Month Awards Housing Student Organizations About RSA About NRHH Resources Show Extended SwakU Gifts and Care Packages MicroFridge® with Safe Plug® GradGuard Renters insurance Spectrum Fire Safety Report Off-campus Housing Events and Conference Services Show Extended Meeting Room Reservation Request Form Summer Conferences Dining and Catering Tabling Request Form Marketing Requests Contact our Events and Conferences Team Take a Housing Tour Submit a Maintenance Request Contact Us Housing Portal Housing Communities We at Housing and Residential Engagement offer a variety of housing communities to our students. However, please note that only certain groups of students based on their class standing will be eligible for certain housing communities. Residence Halls The Residence Halls are reserved for incoming first time freshmen. The Residence Halls are designed to house about 1,062 students in double or triple occupancy bedrooms clustered around community bathrooms. Active rooms and study rooms are centrally located on each floor, assisting students through purposeful and immediate interaction with other community members. Residents will share their room with one or two other students and a community bathroom with seven or eight other residents. Bathrooms consist of 2 private showers, 2 sinks and 2 stalls. Bedrooms: Approximately 12 feet wide by 11 feet long (closet is 5 feet wide) Each bedroom has two Ethernet ports, two telephone jacks and two cable TV plugs. Beds: 80 inches long and 39 inches wide. (twin extra long) Dresser: Two, 2-drawer underbed storage, each 30" wide x 22" deep, and 17" tall. Desk: 42 inches wide x 24 inches deep 1 drawer and 1 bookshelf and a two position chair. Residence Hall Rooms Public Spaces Triple Occupancy Units Students who live in a triple occupancy unit are eligible to receive a credit of up to $800 per semester. More information about Triple Credits can be found here. In triple-occupancy rooms, furniture in the rooms is assigned to students based on their bedspace: Residents assigned to the A1 bedspace use the desk, drawers, and closet on the left side of the room. Residents assigned to the A2 bedspace use the desk, drawers, and closet on the right side of the room. Residents assigned to the A3 bedspace use the desk and standing wardrobe/dresser underneath the A2 bed and may use the space under their own bed for additional storage. Triple occupancy Rooms Apartments The Apartments are reserved for our senior and graduate level students. Our apartment facilities which are home to more than 800 residents. Single occupancy apartments are designed to house four apartment-mates with each having a private bedroom. All apartments have central heat and air conditioning. There are two bathrooms in each apartment. Each apartment has sliding glass doors leading to a balcony or patio. Bedrooms: Approximately 12 feet by 8 feet. Each bedroom has one ethernet port, one telephone jack and one cable TV plug. Beds: 80 inches long and 39 inches wide. (twin extra long) Desk: with one drawer and two-position chair. Closet: 33 inches wide by 26 inches deep by 79 inches tall. Living Room: Couch, 2 armchairs, 2 coffee tables. Each living room has two Ethernet ports, one cable TV plug and two telephone jacks. Dining Room: Dining table and four chairs. Kitchen: Gas stove, microwave, cabinets, double sink, garbage disposal, full size refrigerator and dish washer. Bathrooms: Each bathroom has a sink, tub/shower, toilet and medicine cabinet. One bathroom has six drawers and the other bathroom has three drawers. Suites (Coming Soon) The Suites are reserved for our sophomore, junior, and transfer students. Each Suite will house eight students in an apartment with 4 bedrooms, 2 bathrooms, and a small kitchenette. Every floor will have three Active Rooms, common spaces for residents to socialize or study. Each Active Room includes a TV, an activity table, and plenty of lounge space. The Titan Lounge is a new community space for studying and socializing and leads to a laundry room and the outdoor courtyard. Additional spaces include a large multipurpose room that can seat up to 200 people, an additional mailroom, and new Residential Engagement staff offices so that our team can better serve the students in our new addition to the housing community. Click here to learn more about the new suites This site is maintained by Housing and Residential Engagement. Last Published 5/26/22 To report problems or comments with this site, please contact housing@fullerton.edu. © California State University, Fullerton. All Rights Reserved. Web Accessibility CSUF is committed to ensuring equal accessibility to our users. Let us know about any accessibility problems you encounter using this website. We'll do our best to improve things and get you the information you need. Resources: Download Adobe Acrobat Reader Adobe Reader Download Word viewer, or download Excel viewer, or download PowerPoint viewer Microsoft Viewers Report An ATI Issue Accessible @ CSUF Version_4.8.10 This page uses javascript to help render elements, if you have problems please enable javascript. This page uses accordion styles which rely on javascript. You do not have javascript enabled, some functions will be disabled.