Skip to main content Information For: Current Students Alumni Harvard Undergraduates Educators Recruiters Media Apply Give to HGSE Search Apply for Degree Programs Apply for Professional Education Donate Give back to HGSE and support the next generation of passionate educators and innovative leaders. Keywords Close Menu Degree Programs Professional Education Faculty & Research Usable Knowledge Keywords About HGSE About the Dean Dean's Welcome Messages from the Dean Commentary and Media Dean's Office History of HGSE Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Our Impact Campus and Facilities Office Directory Virtual Tour Gutman Conference Center Reservation Request Form Capacities and Cost Floor Plan Catering Policies Audio Visual Directions, Parking, and Hotels Map of HGSE Directions to HGSE History of HGSE Buildings Faculty & Staff Directory Work at HGSE Title IX Information Doctoral Degree Programs Doctor of Education Leadership Doctor of Philosophy in Education Brochures Academic Calendar Academic Catalog Doctoral Viewbook Master's Degree Program Master's in Education Programs Education Leadership, Organizations, and Entrepreneurship Education Policy and Analysis Human Development and Education Learning Design, Innovation, and Technology Teaching and Teacher Leadership Concentrations Arts and Learning Early Childhood Global, International, and Comparative Education Higher Education Identity, Power, and Justice in Education Literacy and Languages A Personalized Approach Online Master's in Education Leadership Foundations Brochures Academic Catalog Academic Calendar Academic Year 2020-22 Programs Professional Education About Us Programs Early Childhood K-12 Higher Education Online Programs For Organizations Group and Team Enrollment Custom Programs Admissions Payment & Tuition Assistance Refunds & Withdrawals Policies and Accessibility Campus Experience On-Campus Program Health and Safety Policies FAQs Events Contact Faculty & Research Faculty Directory Centers, Projects and Initiatives Faculty Recruitment Faculty Experts Admissions Introduce Yourself Explore Find the Right Program Brochures Life at HGSE Connect Apply Refer a Candidate Frequently Asked Questions Financial Aid HGSE & Harvard University Consumer Information Tuition & Costs Applying for Aid Incoming Students Incoming International Students Continuing Students Scholarships, Fellowships & Grants Need-Based Grant Awards HGSE Fellowships Additional Fellowships External Fellowships Student Loans Student Work International Students International Applicant FAQ Funding Sources Students with Families Financial Aid Appeals Presentations & Publications Budgeting & Financial Literacy Budget Calculator Registrar News & Events Harvard Edcast Education Now Askwith Education Forum Upcoming Events Submit an Event Usable Knowledge Ed. Magazine Harvard Education Publishing Group Information for Media El-Amin Receives Morningstar Family Teaching Award Education Now Usable Knowledge Usable Knowledge Harvard EdCast Ed. Magazine HGSE Centennial Community Learning Beyond the Classroom Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Organizations and Initiatives Community Events and Action Resources Teaching and Learning Gutman Library Services Alumni Services Collections Special Collections Request for Library Purchase Library Hours Websites for Educators About the Library Facilities & Equipment Contact Information Coronavirus Response Information Directory Calendar Alumni Network & Connect Get Involved Learn & Grow Benefits & Services my.harvard Student Handbook Introduction Welcome to HGSE Preface Commitment to Diversity Part 1: Enrollment Policies Academic Programs and Affiliations Registration and Enrollment Policies Tuition and Fees Financial Aid Student Health Insurance Grading Part 2: Student Supports Advising HGSE Supports University Supports Campus Safety and Security Part 3: Program Policies Academic Governance Doctor of Education (Ed.D.) Program Policies Doctor of Philosophy in Education (Ph.D.) Program Policies Doctor of Education Leadership (Ed.L.D.) Program Policies Master of Education (Ed.M.) Program Policies Part 4: Academic Integrity and Standards of Conduct Resolution on Rights and Responsibilities Academic Standards and Integrity Standards of Conduct in the Harvard Community Committee on Rights and Responsibilities Policies on Harassment and Discrimination Policy on Consensual Romantic Relationships Policy on Physical Violence Policy on Misrepresentation of Status Policy on Illicit Substances Policy on Hazing Policy on Threats Part 5: Copyright and Publishing Policies Copyright Disclosure Use of the Harvard Name Information For Current Students Alumni Harvard Undergraduates Educators Recruiters Media Connect with HGSE Facebook Twitter Linked In LinkedIn Symbols Created with Sketch. Instagram News & Events El-Amin Receives Morningstar Family Teaching Award Recognized as a cutting-edge teacher who takes time and genuinely cares for her students. By News editor May 25, 2022 Aaliyah El-Amin Photo: Jill Anderson Aaliyah El-Amin Photo: Jill Anderson The Morningstar Family Teaching Award, the top teaching honor bestowed by the Harvard Graduate School of Education, was presented to Lecturer Aaliyah El-Amin, Ed.M.’13, Ed.D.’15, at HGSE’s Convocation exercises on May 25. The annual award recognizes a member of the HGSE faculty for excellence in teaching and advising throughout the year. The recipient is chosen based on nominations by HGSE students and a review process by a student advisory committee and the HGSE dean. El-Amin teaches courses on critical pedagogy, disrupting racism, the black radical education tradition, and critical qualitative methods. When introducing the award at Convocation, Dean Bridget Long shared that, in the nominations, El-Amin was recognized by students for being a caring and dedicated instructor who encourages personal reflection in classroom discussions and gives high-quality feedback. “Dr. El-Amin is the most caring, kind, compassionate, and dedicated professor I have had," read one nomination. “She goes the extra mile and genuinely cares about us as humans. Her teaching is cutting edge, real, and sticks with you.” "I truly appreciated the care she took in planning and crafting her course each week," read another. "She offered multiple ways to engage students in the class and encouraged us to apply our reflections to classroom discussions and practices. During class discussions, she used questions to encourage us to apply the theoretical to our statements, therefore, allowing us to engage in the practice of theory to action." Established in 2000 with a gift from Faith Morningstar, Ed.M.’87, Ed.D.’96, and her husband, the Honorable Richard Morningstar, an alumnus of Harvard College, the Morningstar Family Teaching Award is intended to recognize those faculty members that helped create supportive environments for their students. El-Amin was nominated along with 51 other faculty members, with 147 students making nominations. “Teaching has been a central part of my identity for over 20 years,” says El-Amin. “I love creating powerful (and joyful) learning experiences that allow students to learn from each other and allow me to learn from students. Everything I teach at HGSE is focused on how we break out of boxes in our society and explore more radical and liberated possibilities for ourselves, our communities and education. Being nominated for this award this year is not only humbling and a true honor, but it is also inspiring! It solidifies that my students are excited about the challenge of building a more just future. I am truly grateful to all my students, and I can’t wait to see how they push back and re-imagine in their future work.” El-Amin began her career in education as an elementary school teacher and then moved on to roles in education administration and nonprofit leadership. El-Amin received her Ed.D. from HGSE in 2015 and was the recipient of the 2015 Dissertation Fellowship Award. Her research interests focus on outlining the knowledge, mindsets and tools educators and students need to disrupt systems of oppression. In her past research studies, she has investigated critical consciousness development in 9–12 graders across New England and documented the innovative and unique practices of schools in California that are explicitly committed to social justice. Current faculty members who have received the Morningstar Award include Professors Andrew Ho, Deborah Jewell-Sherman, Jal Mehta, Catherine Snow, Paul Harris, and Monica Higgins; Associate Professor Karen Brennan; Lecturers Gretchen Brion-Meisels and Joe McIntyre; Senior Lecturers Joe Blatt and Elizabeth City; Principal Research Scientist Tina Grotzer; and Dean Bridget Terry Long. El-Amin would like to thank all of her past and present teaching teams: Whitney Polk, Aysha Upchurch, Pooja Bakhai, Julia Jeffries, Estefania Rodriguez, Amanda Torres, Abena McKall, Daphne Penn, Tatiana Geron, Chris Buttimer, Hania Mariëen, Megan Satterwhite-Freeman, Gary Mitchell, Parastoo Massoumi, Michael Ángel Vázquez, Ela Sikorska, and Ashley Ison. Related News: Celbrating Our First Century and Launching Our Next The prepared remarks of Dean Bridget Long for the Classes of 2020 and 2021 Celebration. The Impact of Immigration on Families In her research, doctoral marshal Sarah Rendón García, Ed.M.'12, Ph.D.'21, explores how the children of immigrants learn about their families' status in the U.S. More In: Commencement 2022 honors and awards Morningstar Family Teaching Award In this section News & Events Harvard Edcast Education Now Askwith Education Forum Upcoming Events Submit an Event Usable Knowledge Ed. Magazine Harvard Education Publishing Group Information for Media El-Amin Receives Morningstar Family Teaching Award Sign up for our newsletters to get the latest from the Harvard Graduate School of Education. Sign Up Now Artboard 1 13 Appian Way | Cambridge, MA 02138 Centennial Contact Us Directory Directions Harvard University ©2022 President and Fellows of Harvard College Linked In Symbols Created with Sketch. Youtube RSS Podcast HGSE Publishing Policies & Disclaimers Digital Accessibility Policy Privacy Policy Trademark Notice