Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Undergraduate Admissions and Orientation Start Here The UofM Experience Visit Connect Apply Admitted Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact Visit UofM Schedule A Tour Virtual Tour Take Action Request Information Apply to UofM Campus Visits and Events Contact Us Follow Us Online FacebooktwitterYoutube Home Undergraduate Admissions and Orientation Visit UofM Visit the Campus We’re so glad you’re interested in the University of Memphis and can’t wait to have you on our main campus in Memphis, Tennessee! Tigers Together. Every Tiger has a role to play in protecting our campus community and preventing the spread of COVID-19. Explore this site to see what UofM is doing and learn how you can do you part while on campus. Campus Tours for Individual Prospective Undergraduate Students Schedule a campus tour > We invite all undergraduate prospective students who are interested in a general overview of the University of Memphis and the admissions process to schedule an official campus tour. We offer campus tours for both the Memphis and Lambuth campuses. If you are interested in residing on campus, be sure to click the "Housing Tour" option when scheduling your campus tour. Individual department meetings are available during your campus tour. Learn more about adding a department meeting to your tour. Student-led tours are held Monday through Friday throughout the year (with the exception of University closings). The tour consists of an information session led by an Admissions Representative and a walking tour led by a student tour guide. Tours are conducted rain or shine, so please dress appropriately. Reservations are required. If you are unable to attend a campus tour or an in-person visit, we encourage you to explore our virtual tour. Campus Tours for School Groups Elementary and Middle School: We are excited to offer an engaging scavenger hunt for all of our elementary and middle school aged visitors. Groups will meet at Wilder Tower to begin the scavenger hunt where students will learn about campus answering prompts related to important campus figures and buildings. Click here to schedule a scavenger hunt. High School: We are excited to offer a 60-minute walking tour for our high school groups. Our tour guides will lead students across campus starting and ending at Wilder Tower. Click here to schedule a high school campus tour. Self-Guided Campus Tours Follow this tour script for a self-guided tour around campus! RSVP for Special Events Throughout the year, the Office of Admissions and Orientation organizes events both on and off campus. We invite you to visit our schedule of events page often to stay up-to-date on recruitment events that may be of interest to you. Traveling to the UofM Coming from out of town? Visitors to the University of Memphis are eligible for special rates with the Holiday Inn-University of Memphis. Please call 901-678-8200 to book your stay with a special discount. Please note that rates are based on hotel availability and are unavailable during high-occupancy, sold-out or blackout dates. Social Media Follow @uofm_tours and @memphisadmissions on Instagram to learn more about the college search process and opportunities available to you at University of Memphis! Memphis Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 4/22/22 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.