Skip to main content iastate.edu Index A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z Directory Maps Safety Sign Ons Iowa State University Institutional Research Menu Toggle Search Toggle Search Staff Contact Fact Book Current Year Archive Common Data Set (CDS) Department Codes Reports Students Faculty Career Placement Outcomes IPEDS Data Feedback Reports IR Self-Study Report Surveys Students Faculty Campus Climate Survey Timeline Resources eData (requires AccessPlus login) WorkCyte (Workday--requires login) Peer Universities Consumer Information U.S. Census Outcomes Portal Useful Links Professional Licensure Information CONSUMER INFORMATION REGARDING IOWA STATE UNIVERSITY PROGRAMS THAT PREPARE STUDENTS FOR PROFESSIONAL LICENSURE Pursuant to 34 C.F.R. § 600.9, Iowa State University is required to disclose consumer information regarding our curricular programs that “foreseeably lead” to careers requiring state licensure. This regulation requires us to determine whether or not our licensure-related programs satisfy the educational requirements for professional licensure in the states where our prospective students are located. Accordingly, we are required to disclose for each program that leads to licensure whether: (1) the program meets the educational requirements for professional licensure in a specific state; (2) the program does not meet the educational requirements for professional licensure in a specific state; or (3) we have not determined whether our program meets a particular state’s educational requirements. Because licensing requirements differ dramatically by occupational category as well as by state, we encourage prospective students to check their state legislative codes to verify the information presented here. We will strive to update this information on an annual basis by July 1 of each year. PROGRAMS Accounting | Architecture | Athletic Training | Dietetics | Education | Engineering | Landscape Architecture | Psychology (Counseling) | Veterinary Medicine ACCOUNTING Iowa State's B.S. in Accounting and M.Acct. programs meet the educational requirements in Illinois, Iowa, Minnesota, and Wisconsin to sit for the CPA exam. The B.S. program provides 22 of the required 24 credit hours of accounting beyond principles courses. Students may complete the remaining hours by taking an elective accounting course. In Iowa, Minnesota, and Wisconsin, completing the B. S. in accounting and 24 credit hours of accounting beyond principles courses is sufficient to sit for the CPA exam. Students must then obtain 150 total hours to qualify for a CPA license. This can be done by completing the M.Acct. program or additional undergraduate credits. In Illinois, students must obtain 150 total hours to sit for the exam. CPA review courses taken for credit do not count towards the 150 total hours required to sit for the CPA exam in Illinois. ISU's M.Acct. program meets the educational requirements in Missouri, Nebraska, and New York, as each of these states require a greater number of beyond principles credit hours than the B.S. program offers. Students must obtain 150 total hours to sit for the exam. ISU's programs do not meet the educational requirements for California or Kansas. Both states have specific course requirements that are not part of ISU's curriculum. Students may still qualify if elective courses are chosen carefully in either the B.S. or M.Acct. program. ISU's programs do not meet the educational requirements for Texas. Texas requires an accounting ethics class not offered by ISU. For all other states, it is not determined if ISU's programs meet the educational requirements. More Information: National Association of State Boards of Accountancy (NASBA) CPA Exam University Contact: Brad Trinkle, Chair, Accounting Department | (515) 294-2645 | trinkle@iastate.edu ARCHITECTURE The Professional Degree - either Bachelor or Master - in Architecture is required for Architecture licensure in all 50 U.S. states, the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico, Guam, the Northern Mariana Islands, and the U.S. Virgin Islands. Each has an architecture board that is responsible for issuing licenses reciprocity between some states. While licensure is juriditially administered, the B.Arch. and M.Arch. degrees from any National Architectural Accrediting Board (NAAB) accredited professional degree program satisfies degree requirements in all NCARB jurisdictions. Fifty-five jurisdictions make up the National Council of Architectural Registration Boards (NCARB). NCARB’s membership work with NCARB to develop standards and programs, which serve as a framework that guides each jurisdiction’s individual requirements. Iowa State's B.Arch. and M.Arch programs meet the educational requirements for professional licensure in all 50 states plus the territories listed above. More information: National Council of Architectural Registration Boards (NCARB) | National Architectural Accrediting Board (NAAB) University Contact: Deborah Hauptmann, Chair, Architecture Department | (515) 294-5676 | deborah@iastate.edu ATHLETIC TRAINING To become an Athletic Trainer, candidates must graduate with a degree in Athletic Training from an accredited Athletic Training program and successfully pass the Board of Certification (BOC) exam. To practice as an Athletic Trainer in most states, the individual must also be credentialed within that state. Passing the BOC exam is only a precursor to athletic training practice, and earning BOC certification does not guarantee the ability to obtain a license. It is recommended to visit the state regulation page to view laws and contact information for each state and/or contact the BOC for assistance.Degrees in physical therapy, exercise science, strength and conditioning or others DO NOT qualify the candidate to sit for the BOC examination. Iowa State's MATR program meets the educational requirements to sit for the BOC exam. NOTE: California currently does not have state regulation of Athletic Trainers. More information: Board of Certification for the Athletic Trainer | NATA Athletic Training State Regulatory Boards University Contact: Dr. Mary Meier, Associate Clinical Professor/Academic Program Director | (515) 294-3587 | mary@iastate.edu Relevant Exam Pass Rates/Program Outcomes: LINK DIETETICS Graduates who successfully complete the ACEND-accredited didactic program in dietetics at Iowa State University are eligible to apply to an ACEND-accredited supervised practice programs such as dietetic internships or Future Graduate programs such as the Master of Professional Practice in Dietetics (MPP). After completion of a dietetic internship or a Future Graduate program and successfully passing the national registration exam for dietitians administered by the Commission on Dietetic Registration (CDR), graduates must also obtain licensure or certification to practice in most states. Effective January 1, 2024, the CDR will require a minimum of a master’s degree to be eligible to take the credentialing exam to become a registered dietitian nutritionist (RDN). Iowa State's didactic program in dietetics (B.S. in Dietetics, concurrent B.S./M.S. in Diet and Exercise) meets the educational requirements in all 50 states. Graduates of the Iowa State’s MPP program are eligible to take the national registration exam for dietitians and are eligible to practice in all 50 states upon passing the registration exam and obtaining the license or certification to practice dietetics as required by state law. Not every state has licensure. Many states credential dietitians as "certified dietitians.” More Information: Commission on Dietetic Registration | Academy of Nutrition and Dietetics: Licensure statute map; Data table (PDF) University Contacts: Mridul Datta, Master of Professional Practice in Dietetics, Food Science & Human Nutrition | (515) 294-7316 | mdatta@iastate.edu Anne Oldham, Academic Advisor, Food Science & Human Nutrition | (515) 294-6414 | aoldham@iastate.edu EDUCATION To teach in the state of Iowa, individuals must hold a current teaching license. The license is granted by the state, upon the recommendation of the state-approved institution where the candidate completed an undergraduate or graduate Educator Preparation Program. The Iowa Board of Educational Examiners issues teaching licenses that are valid for specific ages or grades (such as K-6 for elementary teachers and 5-12 for secondary teachers). Endorsements on a teaching license indicate which subject areas a teacher is qualified to teach. Completion of student teaching and required coursework does not guarantee recommendation for a teaching license. The state of Iowa operates under an approved program system. This means Iowa State University has specified to the Board of Educational Examiners (BoEE) the courses and experiences it believes are necessary for prospective teachers in various fields, such as history, science, music, and family and consumer sciences. Every seven years, the university undergoes a state review of its more than 65 approved programs. Further information is available here. Specific information for Iowa State's Educator Preparation program is available for these six states: Illinois (PDF) | Iowa (PDF) | Minnesota (PDF) | Missouri (PDF) | Nebraska (PDF) | Wisconsin (PDF) For all other states, it has not been determined if ISU's program meets the respective educational requirements. University Contact: Teresa Kahler, Coordinator of Licensure | (515) 294-7004 | takahler@iastate.edu ENGINEERING This information is for Iowa State's 12 ABET accredited engineering programs: Aerospace Engineering, Agricultural Engineering, Biosystems Engineering, Chemical Engineering, Civil Engineering, Construction Engineering, Computer Engineering, Electrical Engineering, Industrial Engineering, Materials Engineering, Mechanical Engineering, and Software Engineering. Licensure requirements for all states typically include passing the Fundamental of Engineering (FE) exam and the Principles of Practice of Engineering (PE) Exam. The FE exam can be taken while enrolled in any of ISU's ABET accredited programs. While each state has different eligibility requirements to take the PE exam, applicants will typically need a degree from a U.S. ABET accredited program (which is met by ISU's 12 accredited programs) and pass the FE exam. State licensing boards may specify additional requirements for taking the PE exam, such as experience. Some states require approval (via an application) to take the PE exam. Iowa State's accredited programs (listed above) meet the educational requirements for the FE and PE exams in Illinois, Iowa, Minnesota, Missouri, and Nebraska. It has not been determined if the programs meet the PE requirements for other states. NOTE: Iowa State's new programs in Cybersecurity Engineering and Environmental Engineering will pursue ABET accreditation once the programs have graduates. The College of Engineering will be working with the Iowa state licensing board to obtain approval for graduates in these two programs to take the FE exam while accreditation is being pursued. More Information: National Council of Examiners for Engineering and Surveying (NCEES) state licensing boards University Contact: Sriram Sundararajan, Associate Dean for Academic Affairs, College of Engineering | (515) 294-1050 | srirams@iastate.edu LANDSCAPE ARCHITECTURE Iowa State's BLA and MLA programs are accredited by the Landscape Architectural Accreditation Board (LAAB). Iowa State's programs meet the educational requirements for licensing in all 50 states. More Information: Council of Landscape Architecture Registration Boards (CLARB) | American Society of Landscape Architects (ASLA) University Contact: Carl Rogers, Chair, Landscape Architecture Department | (515) 294-6743 | rogersc@iastate.edu PSYCHOLOGY (COUNSELING) Iowa State's Ph.D. program in Counseling Psychology meets the educational requirements for professional licensure in 47 states, plus Washington D.C., Puerto Rico, and the U.S. Virgin Islands. The state of California requires additional coursework in human sexuality, substance abuse, child abuse assessment, and aging/long-term care that the ISU program does not provide. The state of Maine requires additional coursework in family violence that the ISU program does not provide. The state of New York approves each educational program individually. To date, ISU's program has not been formally approved. University Contact: Nathaniel Wade, Ph.D., Department of Psychology | (515) 294-1455 | nwade@iastate.edu Relevant Exam Pass Rates: LINK (see final table) VETERINARY MEDICINE Iowa State's D.V.M. program meets the educational requirements to sit for the North American Veterinary Licensing Exam (NAVLE). Successful completion of the NAVLE is required by all states prior to state licensure. Information for prospective veterinary students may be found here. Information about the NAVLE may be found here. More information: American Association of Veterinary State Boards (AAVSB) | International Council for Veterinary Assessment (ICVA) University Contact: Mindy Schminke, Veterinary Medicine | (515) 294-0772 | schminke@iastate.edu Relevant Exam Pass Rates: LINK Institutional Research Institutional Research 2420 Lincoln Way Suite 203 Ames, IA 50014-8340 ir@iastate.edu 515-294-1181 phone Social Media Directory Copyright © 1995-2022 Iowa State University of Science and Technology All rights reserved Non-discrimination Policy Privacy Policy Digital Access & Accessibility Consumer information