Skip to Main Content Brown University News from Brown Site Navigation Featured Events For Journalists Search Menu Topics News and Events Date March 8, 2022 2022-03-08 Media Contact Brian E. Clark [email protected] 401-863-1638 All News Share Facebook Twitter Linkedin Email Class of 2009 graduate Zack Langway to lead alumni relations at Brown With professional accomplishments in community building and more than a decade of volunteer leadership with Brown, Langway will return to College Hill to lead efforts to cultivate and sustain strong alumni relationships. PROVIDENCE, R.I. [Brown University] — Zack Langway, a Class of 2009 graduate of Brown University and an experienced leader in stakeholder and constituent engagement, has been named the University’s vice president for alumni relations, effective Monday, April 11. As vice president, Langway will oversee all aspects of alumni relations, creating and directing a comprehensive and strategic program of events and activities to engage Brown’s community of more than 100,000 alumni across the world. He’ll serve as chief liaison to the Brown Alumni Association and provide leadership and vision for the alumni relations staff in the University’s Division of Advancement Reporting to Senior Vice President for Advancement Sergio Gonzalez, Langway will bring firsthand knowledge of the Brown alumni experience and a diverse professional background in the nonprofit and business sectors. He will join Brown from Johnson & Johnson, where he has held roles since 2017 focused on communications, public affairs and stakeholder engagement. “Zack’s achievements in community building, his expertise in advocacy and communications, and his success as an alumni leader give him a unique and dynamic perspective that will help us create innovative programming, advance efforts to make the alumni experience more inclusive, and shape the future of alumni engagement with Brown,” Gonzalez said. “We’re excited to welcome him back to College Hill.” Langway serves currently as communications leader for Johnson & Johnson’s Office of the Chief Medical Officer, where he is responsible for corporate affairs and constituent engagement work with a cross section of more than 1,000 medical and scientific experts. In prior roles at J&J, he led communications and programming in consumer health and global social innovation. He also served on the global leadership team for the company’s enterprise-wide LGBTQ+ employee resource group, Open & Out. Previously, Langway was senior vice president at Fenton Communications, the country’s oldest social change agency, first leading the agency’s Washington, D.C., digital portfolio. He later developed the company’s international health and development practice, where he led teams working to address issues including global food security, health technology in low-resource settings, and girls’ and women’s empowerment. “ Brown is so much more than just a place: It’s a diverse and vibrant community, an intellectual home base and a lifelong experience that never stops giving back. ” Zack Langway, Class of 2009 Incoming Vice President for Alumni Relations In the 13 years since earning his Brown degree, Langway has distinguished himself as an alumni leader, serving on the Brown Alumni Association board of governors; as the diversity, equity and inclusion chair for the Association of Class Leaders board; as president of the Brown Club of Washington, D.C.; and as co-president for the Class of 2009, among other roles. As a student, Langway worked for two years on communication and events for the Brown Alumni Association and the Alumni Relations office. With a professional track record in community engagement and as an experienced Brown volunteer leader for more than a decade, he said he looks forward to returning to campus to help shape new ways to engage alumni, families and friends as part of the University’s overall advancement strategy. “Brown is an essential institution, both in our society and in the lives of more than 100,000 students, alums, friends and families around the world,” Langway said. “For each of us, Brown is so much more than just a place: It’s a diverse and vibrant community, an intellectual home base and a lifelong experience that never stops giving back. It's an honor to come home to Brown and lead the Alumni Relations team, as we help strengthen the ways alums from across generations and geographies can engage meaningfully with students and the University.” In a 2021 interview for the Brown Alumni & Friends website, Langway discussed the impact his Brown student experience and the relationships he built on campus have had on his life and career. “I chose Brown because of the Open Curriculum,” he said. “I loved Brown because I had the academic and extracurricular freedom to explore things that I found exciting — from philosophy to screenwriting to Greek language to a cappella. I’ve remained committed to Brown because it has profoundly shaped who I am and given me many of the most important friendships and relationships I have in my life.” Langway has been a frequent speaker at domestic and global conferences, including events hosted by the American Public Health Association, Women Deliver and the International AIDS Conference, and in 2020 was named a “First Movers” fellow of the Aspen Institute for social intrapreneurship. He serves as an adjunct instructor at both Rutgers University and Towson University, teaching courses focused on social media and social impact leadership and communication. Since 2019, he has been a board of directors member for TIP Global Health; he’s also on the advisory board for the Kupona Foundation. In addition to his bachelor of arts from Brown, where he concentrated in political science, Langway holds a master’s degree in communication from Johns Hopkins University. Tags BrownTogether Related news: News and Events Brown Corporation elects two new fellows, eight trustees June 1, 2022 Brown’s governing body elected each new member based on their commitment to the University and its mission of education and research. Read Article Open details for Brown Corporation elects two new fellows, eight trustees News and Events Brown Corporation approves base budget for Fiscal Year 2023 June 1, 2022 The $1.5 billion base budget includes deep investments in student financial aid and support for faculty and staff, balancing continued advancement in academic excellence with a focus on long-term financial sustainability. Read Article Open details for Brown Corporation approves base budget for Fiscal Year 2023 News and Events In three ceremonies, medical, doctoral and master’s graduates celebrate hard-earned degrees May 29, 2022 In addresses at Brown’s Commencement ceremonies on Sunday, May 29, student speakers entreated their peers to make a positive impact using lessons they had learned during the COVID-19 pandemic. Read Article Open details for In three ceremonies, medical, doctoral and master’s graduates celebrate hard-earned degrees Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown Social Navigation Facebook Instagram LinkedIn Snapchat Twitter YouTube Social Media Directory © Brown University Brown University For You Current Students Faculty Staff Parents & Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Featured Events For Journalists Topics Arts and Humanities Environment Health and Medicine News and Events Science and Technology Social Sciences Student Life University Initiatives Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation About Events For You Give to Brown All of Brown.edu People News Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Class of 2009 graduate Zack Langway to lead alumni relations at Brown Open details for Class of 2009 graduate Zack Langway to lead alumni relations at Brown Bookmark this Page