Skip to main content Restrict my search to Office of the Provost Submit Close Login to AccessUH Give to UH Search Office of the Provost About Provost Paula Myrick Short Initiatives Deans of Colleges and Libraries Provost's Cabinet: Vice and Associate Provosts Office of the Provost Staff Presentations by Provost Paula Myrick Short Faculty Current Faculty Faculty Resources Underrepresented Women of Color Coalition Faculty Engagement and Development Faculty Awards Cougar Chairs Leadership Academy Grants Faculty Grievance Non-Tenure Track Faculty New Faculty Prospective Faculty Presidential Frontiers Faculty Faculty/Staff Administrators Student Success Undergraduate Academic Advising Current Students Undergraduate Student Success Center Provost Prizes for Prose & Poetry New Coogs UHin4: Four Year Graduation Plan Cub Camp: Student-Run, Student Led Provost Summer Read Program Peer Assistants Global Students Learning Abroad International Students Graduate Students University Success SACSCOC University Accreditation UH Global Global Initiatives Global Citizens Credential Peace Corps Prep Program Center for ADVANCING UH Faculty Success Cougar Initiative to Engage (CITE) Houston Guided Pathways to Success About People Memorandum of Understanding Foundations of Excellence About Year 1: Foundational Dimensions Year 2: Themes Success Indicators Dashboard Postdoctoral Fellows at UH Academic Program Planning Committee on Academic Centers and Institutes Planning and Budgeting Policies and Resources Academic Honesty Policy Frequently Asked Questions Student Policies and Resources Student Resources Faculty Policies, Programs, and Resources Policies Programs Resources University Policies and Resources FERPA Resources Senate Bill 4 Frequently Asked Questions Honorary Degrees COVID-19 Updates and Resources News News Travels With Shasta Cougar Milestones UH Office of the Provost Marketing and Communications UH Home Office of the Provost University Success Postdoctoral Fellows at UH Contact Information The postdoctoral fellows association was created to enhance networking, connect postdoc researchers across the university campus, and support an interdisciplinary environment. For more information please contact an association representative at postdocs@central.uh.edu. Postdoctoral Fellows at UH Overview About Us Awards UHPFA Board Career Resources Overview Welcome to the University of Houston Postdoctoral Fellows Association (UHPFA). The purpose of the Association is to establish a network of support for postdocs who may be new to the City of Houston and to research positions at the University of Houston. The Association was created to connect new postdocs with UH faculty, alumni, and researchers to enhance funding opportunities, interdisciplinary research, and professional development. Join the UHPFA email distribution list (by sending an email request to postdocs@central.uh.edu) and Follow the UHPFA Facebook Group for more information and activities. About Us The University of Houston Postdoctoral Fellows Association (UHPFA) is formed by current postdoc researchers at the University of Houston and is aimed to create a platform for: Funding Opportunities Professional Development Networking The PFA is committed to addressing the different needs of postdoc researchers through a variety of opportunities by connecting to university resources such as the Career center, the Division of Research, and the Office of the Provost. The PFA advocates for the needs of postdocs and supports interdisciplinary research opportunities. The Association connects postdocs to UH alumni and leaders in industry and academia, creates opportunities for adjunct teaching as well as provides training in grant writing and project development. Awards The Office of the Provost offers two awards to eligible postdocs, the Postdoctoral Travel Award and the Postdoctoral Career Enhancement Award. Postdoctoral Travel Award The Postdoctoral Travel Award is designed to help the University of Houston's postdoctoral fellows, scholars, and researchers enhance their professional development and increase the visibility of the institution by supporting travel to present the results of their research or creative activity at meetings with a national or international audience. Download the guidelines Fill out the application Postdoctoral Career Enhancement Award The Postdoctoral Career Enhancement Award is designed to help the University of Houston's postdoctoral fellows, scholars, and researchers enhance their professional development. The award will support registration and/or travel for internships, extramural courses (e.g. NIH, etc.) to learn new skills, and visiting laboratories to conduct collaborative studies. Download the guidelines Fill out the application UHPFA Board The UHPFA Board is currently conformed by: Zahra Mohammad, Ph.D. (Co-Chair) Conrad N. Hilton College of Hotel and Restaurant Management zhmohamm@Central.UH.EDU Satya Prakash Shukla, Ph.D. Secretary Pharmacological and Pharmaceutical Sciences, College of Pharmacy spshukla@Central.UH.EDU Meng-Hsuan Monica Wen, Ph.D. Event Coordinator Chemistry mwen4@Central.UH.EDU Chenlin Hu, Ph.D. Communications Coordinator Pharmacy chu10@Central.UH.EDU Asif Zaman, Ph.D. At-large member Pharmacy azaman5@Central.UH.EDU Naureen Fatima, Ph.D. At-large member Pharmacy nfatima3@Central.UH.EDU Zeba Farooqui, Ph.D. At-large member Pharmacy zfarooqui@uh.edu Previous board members: Dr. Joanne Bower, Psychology (Secretary) Dr. Krista Beach, Optometry (Events coordinator) Dr. David Rio, Optometry (Communications coordinator) Dr. Mariano Susman, Chemical Engineering (Communications coordinator) Dr. Ayeswarya Ravikumar, Optometry (Secretary) Dr. Ankit Mahendra, Chemical Engineering (Co-Chair, Events coordinator) Dr. Baskar Arumugam, Optometry (Communications coordinator) Dr. Odochi Nwoko, Psychology (Co-chair) Dr. Carolina Kunnen, Optometry (Co-chair) Dr. Mary Crum, Chemical Engineering (Founding member) Dr. Roberta M. Leal, Social Work (Founding member) Dr. Binh Vu, Chemical Engineering (Founding member) Career Resources The Postdoc Fellows Association has compiled career resource links to provide access to information and websites for job opportunities, grant resources, and professional development. Click on any of the links below to access more information. If you know of additional sources that you would like to have posted to this page, contact us at postodocs@central.uh.edu. Job Opportunities at UH https://uh.edu/human-resources/careers/ Grant Opportunities National Institute of Health National Institute of Mental Health National Science Foundation Fogarty International Center Professional Development Resources http://www.uh.edu/research/ University of Houston Ezekiel W. Cullen Bldg., Room 203 Houston, TX 77204 832-842-0550 About the Office of the Provost Travels With Shasta Cougar Milestones Office of the Provost Staff Faculty Awards Student Success Undergraduate Academic Advising UHin4: Four Year Graduation Plan Provost Summer Read Program Cub Camp: Student-Run, Student Led University Success Policies and Resources SACSCOC University Accreditation ©2022 University of Houston. All rights reserved. Report a problem with this page Texas.gov Texas Homeland Security TRAIL Fraud Reporting Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Linking Notice Privacy Notice Open Records/Public Information Act Institutional Résumé Required Reports Electronic & Information Resources Accessibility Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness University Policies