Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Strategic Resource Investment Timeline Model Details Governance Glossary & FAQs SRI Models and Resources Archive Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact PreviousNext Take Action University Budget Division of Business & Finance President's Office Home Strategic Resource Investment About Strategic Resource Investment (SRI) The SRI initiative was established to develop a better, more responsive, transparent and flexible way to provide information useful in making resource allocation decisions for the University. The University of Memphis must allocate all resources strategically. One of the tools for accomplishing this goal is the budget model. The University is exploring budget models using the following criteria: The model must be responsive to changes in enrollment, state appropriations and student demand for academic offerings. The model must be transparent and easily understood. The model must tie academic decision making to financial implications. Guiding Principles in the development of the model Good performance and good data are essential. Collaboration and interdisciplinary activities are rewarded. Initial implementation is at the revenue responsibility center level (not department level). Academic quality indicators are used to ensure that academic units do not focus solely on the financial aspects of the model. University outcomes are enhanced and rewarded. Administrative and support units provide efficient and high quality levels of service. What the Model Will/Will Not Do What the model will do: Inform Decision Making: Academic program decision making is coupled to financial responsibility. Engender Responsiveness: It allows the University to respond quickly to economic change and leverage resources. Empower Entrepreneurship: Units can grow as they look to become innovative and efficient. Provide Transparency: Everyone knows the "rules" and has access to the information needed. Foster a Culture of Accountability: Decision makers have clear lines of responsibility. Incentivize Responsible Growth: Decision makers clearly recognize the connection between revenue and expense. Create Equity: Everyone plays by the same rules and are held to the same standards. What the model will not do: Create Dollars: It does not create new revenue streams. Achieve Strategic Goals: It assists in strategic planning if investments are made in what we value. Drive Academic Priorities: It may enhance priorities via the use of data. Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 3/24/21 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.