COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW College of Innovation and Design Section Menu Home About Us Our Team Makers and Doers Master of Innovation Design (MID) Academic Programs Sustainability & Innovation Events & Competitions College of Innovation and Design Newsletters College of Innovation and Design Center for Entrepreneurship Stop Video JUST ANNOUNCED Wichita State interdisciplinary team is in the Top 10 for the 2022 NASA SUITS Challenge and will pitch at NASA Headquarters in Houston, Texas this May! READ MORE ABOUT THE WSU TEAM LEARN MORE ABOUT THE NASA CHALLENGE Master of Innovation Design The Master of Innovation Design (MID) degree program merges arts, science and technology courses, creating opportunities for interdisciplinary student/faculty collaboration. The program is tailored for each student, helping them develop their innovator mindset including their ability to: Communicate ideas effectively Facilitate design thinking and design sprints Utilize an agile product development workflow Develop transformative physical, digital and service products Validate ideas for market fit Build sustainable teams Launch a startup enterprise Interdisciplinary Leadership Certificate The undergraduate certificate in interdisciplinary leadership comprises 12 credit hours of courses chosen from across many disciplines. Upon completion of the leadership certificate, students are able to: Identify leadership theories and concepts; Differentiate leadership practices across settings, organizations, disciplines and systems; Identify cultural strengths and differences through a leadership framework; Develop leadership skills based on personal strengths and professional interests; and Lead individuals in teamwork exercises. Minor in Sustainability The minor in Sustainability through the College of Innovation and Design approaches sustainability through a holistic lens. Courses investigate the management of our social, environmental, economic, and cultural resources so they may last for generations. Areas of focus include:  Innovation life cycle Change management Sustainable business development Social mobility Challenges in sustainability and innovation Updates from the College of Innovation and Design We are always getting our hands dirty with various projects and new ventures. Read stories from students, news articles, and updates below. Recent Blog Posts Towards a More Streamlined myWSU From Prototype to Princess Students Advance in NASA Competition CES - the good, the bad, the ugly Questions? Email the College of Innovation and Design Inside the Institute Enjoy this sneak peek of everyday life as a Master of Innovation Design student at Wichita State University. Our unique approach Building a Team The College of Innovation and Design is a unique development and design environment. It starts with a carefully selected group of students from different areas of expertise who have great ideas and the tenacity to make them real. The Collaborative Process Our teams seek to harness the power of diverse perspectives, passion, and conflict — supported by access to incredible facilities and resources — to refine students' ideas and work toward beautiful and lasting solutions. Elevated Understanding By the end of their two years in the program, those who complete the journey will have an elevated understanding of leadership, collaboration, and the intricacies of ideation, gaining a highly marketable creative confidence, and lifelong friends in the process. Innovation College of Innovation & Design Alumni Compete in $1 Million Mask Challenge Three Wichita State University alumni are in the running to win $1 million as part of the Next-Gen Mask Challenge sponsored by XPrize. They were chosen one of only 25 finalists from a field of 1,000 teams from 30 countries. Spencer Steinert, Jared Goering and Maggie Koops — all recent graduates of Wichita State’s Master of Innovation Design program — teamed up to for the Cyfive apparel company to address a challenge created by XPrize: to craft a face mask addressing the obstacles that deter people from wearing them and promote positive mask-wearing behavior. Read full story Request info Connect with us! Speak directly with someone from the College of Innovation and Design about the Master of Innovation Design program or Leadership Certificate. New Student Partnership 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©