Skip to main content Search form Search Information For Current Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Employers Contact Give About Search Menu Public Health Now News Events Publications Topics Student Voices Celebrating the Centennial Our Work to Address COVID-19 Columbia Public Health Magazine Academics Departments Degrees Course Directory Calendar Policy & Procedures Office of Education Research Featured Research Global Health Centers Programs Grants & Awards Corporate Partnerships People Our Faculty Current Students Friends and Supporters Partners Alumni Become a Student Meet Our Faculty Life & Community Degree Finder How to Apply Career Services More Information Master of Public Health Degree Programs Certificate Program Core Curriculum Search You are here Home Public Health Now Topics Genetics Genetics Genetics play a pivotal role in human health that compliments the study of environmental factors of chronic diseases like cancer, diabetes, and obesity, as well as aging. Featured Article Diagnostics Breakthrough Brings Viral Sequencing to Doctors’ Toolkit Faculty in Genetics Alfred Neugut Myron M Studner Professor of Cancer Research (in Medicine) and Professor Epidemiology at the Columbia University Medical Center Ezra Susser Professor Epidemiology and Psychiatry Frederica Perera Professor Environmental Health Sciences Greg Freyer Professor Environmental Health Sciences at the Columbia University Medical Center Gen Li Assistant Professor Biostatistics Iuliana Ionita-Laza Professor Biostatistics Jasmine McDonald Assistant Professor Epidemiology Jeanine Genkinger Associate Professor Epidemiology Julie Herbstman Associate Professor Environmental Health Sciences Joseph Lee Professor at CUMC Epidemiology (in the Sergievsky Center) at the Columbia University Medical Center Manuela Orjuela-Grimm Assistant Professor Epidemiology and Pediatrics (in the HICCC) at the Columbia University Medical Center Mady Hornig Associate Professor Epidemiology at the Columbia University Medical Center Myrna Weissman Diane Goldman Kemper Family Professor Epidemiology (in Psychiatry) Mary Beth Terry Professor Epidemiology (In Environmental Health Sciences) Norman Kleiman Assistant Professor Environmental Health Sciences at the Columbia University Medical Center Nischay Mishra Assistant Professor Epidemiology (In the Center for Infection and Immunity) at the Columbia University Medical Center Rita Kukafka Professor Sociomedical Sciences and Biomedical Informatics at the Columbia University Medical Center Robert Klitzman Professor Psychiatry (in Sociomedical Sciences) at the Columbia University Medical Center Ruth Ottman Professor Epidemiology (in Neurology and the Sergievsky Center) Regina Santella Professor Environmental Health Sciences Srikesh Arunajadai Adjunct Assistant Professor Biostatistics Shuang Wang Professor Biostatistics Tom Hei Professor Environmental Health Sciences and Radiation Oncology Andrea Baccarelli Leon Hess Professor Environmental Health Sciences Ana Navas-Acien Professor Environmental Health Sciences Brandon Pearson Assistant Professor Environmental Health Sciences Daniel Belsky Assistant Professor Epidemiology (In CAC) Maya Deyssenroth Assistant Professor Environmental Health Sciences News & Features Epidemiologists Develop State-of-the-Art Tool for Measuring Pace of Aging Researchers at Columbia University Mailman School of Public Health have developed a blood test to measure the pace of biological aging. Based on an analysis of chemical tags on the DNA contained in white blood cells called DNA methylation marks, the new test is named DunedinPACE, after the D One Study, Decades of Discoveries [[{"fid":"148251","view_mode":"default","fields":{"format":"default","field_caption[und][0][value]":"Photo: Paul Weinberg"},"link_text":null,"type":"media","field_deltas":{"3":{"format":"default","field_caption[und][0][value]":"Photo: Paul Weinberg"}},"attributes":{"title":"Zena Stein and  M Noncognitive Skills—Distinct from Cognitive Abilities—Are Important to Success Across the Life Course Noncognitive skills and cognitive abilities are both important contributors to educational attainment—the number of years of formal schooling that a person completes—and lead to success across the life course, according to a new study from an international team led by researchers at Columbia See All Just Published Kappil, M., Terry, M.B., Delgado-Cruzata, L., Liao, Y., Santella, R.M. (2016). Mismatch Repair Polymorphisms as Markers of Breast Cancer Prevalence in the Breast Cancer Family Registry. Anticancer Research. View abstract. Caminiti, C.B., Hesdorffer, D.C., Shostak, S., Goldsmith, J., Sorge, S.T., Winawer, M.R., ... & Ottman, R. (2016). Parents' Interest in Genetic Testing of Their Offspring in Multiplex Epilepsy Families. Epilepsia. View abstract. Posner, J., Cha, J., Wang, Z., Talati, A., Warner, V., Gerber, A., ... & Weissman, M. (2015). Increased Default Mode Network Connectivity in Individuals at High Familial Risk for Depression. Neuropsychopharmacology. View abstract. Klitzman, R. (2015). The need for vigilance in the marketing of genomic tests in psychiatry. The Journal of Nervous and Mental Disease. View abstract. Related Centers & Programs Imprints Center for Genetic and Environmental Lifecourse Studies Dedicated to deepening our understanding of the origins and unfolding of health and disease over the life course. Gertrude H. Sergievsky Center Our research is focused on diseases of the brain and nervous system throughout the life cycle. Center for Infection and Immunity One of the world’s largest and most advanced academic centers focused on microbial surveillance, discovery and diagnosis Laboratory of Precision Environmental Health The Baccarelli Laboratory Imprints Center Genetic and Environmental Lifecourse Studies Upcoming Events Wednesday 1 June episummer@columbia Friday 3 June Release Webinar for the National Academy of Medicine's Global Roadmap for Health Longevity Friday 3 June COVID-19: From Causes to Consequences Hosted by The Columbia Connection Monday 6 June Google Earth Engine Boot Camp Methods for Using Satellite and Geospatial Data for Environmental Exposure Science Tuesday 7 June New Resources and Creative Strategies for Recruiting Candidates for Health Departments Tuesday 7 June Google Earth Engine Boot Camp Methods for Using Satellite and Geospatial Data for Environmental Exposure Science Thursday 9 June PI Crash Course Skills for Future or New Lab Leaders Friday 10 June Creating a Synthetic Life Course Cohort for Research on Alzheimer's Disease Neuroepidemiology Seminar Friday 10 June PI Crash Course Skills for Future or New Lab Leaders Columnbia Mailman Connect with Us Public Health Now News Events Publications Topics Student Voices Academics Departments Degrees Course Directory Calendar Policy & Procedures Office of Education Research Featured Research Global Health Centers Programs Grants & Awards Corporate Partnerships People Our Faculty Current Students Friends and Supporters Partners Alumni Become a Student Meet Our Faculty Life & Community Degree Finder How to Apply Career Services More Information Columbia University Mailman School of Public Health | 722 West 168th St. NY, NY 10032 Site Map Privacy Columbia University Irving Medical Center Copyright © Columbia University 2019 Information For Current Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Employers