Home Home Students Parents Faculty & Staff Alumni College of Arts and Sciences History 318 Smith Hall 206-543-5790 Website Faculty Website History is a core discipline in any liberal arts education. The study of history enables us to see how the present world came into being; at the same time, it asks us to understand diverse people in different times and places. The interests of faculty and students in History range temporally from ancient times to present, and geographically from Asia and Europe to the Americas, Africa, and the Middle East. Undergraduate Programs Program of Study: Major: History Bachelor of Arts degree with a major in History Bachelor of Arts degree with a major in History: Empire and Colonialism Bachelor of Arts degree with a major in History: Race, Gender, and Power Bachelor of Arts degree with a major in History: Religion and Society Bachelor of Arts degree with a major in History: War and Society Program of Study: Minor: History Minor in History Minor in History of Empire and Colonialism Minor in History of Race, Gender, and Power Minor in History of Religion and Society Minor in History of Science Minor in History of War and Society Graduate Programs Program of Study: Doctor Of Philosophy (History) Doctor Of Philosophy (History) Doctor Of Philosophy (History: Textual Studies) Program of Study: Master Of Arts (History) Master Of Arts (History) Undergraduate Programs History 315 Smith Hall 206-543-5691 histadv@uw.edu Program of Study: Major: History Program Overview Dynamic, diverse, and intellectually challenging, the Department of History cultivates in undergraduates a lasting curiosity about the world, and imparts useful tools for understanding and participating in it responsibly. With an emphasis on critical reading and writing, discriminating research skills, and persuasive presentation, the history major prepares students for a variety of occupations in the fields of business, government, non-profit, education, and many more. Undergraduates are guided in their path by an excellent and diverse faculty, including eight recipients of Distinguished Teaching Awards – more than any other unit on campus. Our faculty members claim as their areas of expertise nearly every continent on earth, throughout the chronological span of written history. We also have a number of adjunct faculty, allowing students to explore an interdisciplinary approach to their studies. This program of study leads to the following credentials: Bachelor of Arts degree with a major in History Bachelor of Arts degree with a major in History: Empire and Colonialism Bachelor of Arts degree with a major in History: Race, Gender, and Power Bachelor of Arts degree with a major in History: Religion and Society Bachelor of Arts degree with a major in History: War and Society Recommended Preparation Suggested First- and Second-Year College Courses: Courses that develop writing skills. Admission Requirements Minimum college/university GPA of 2.00 Completion of 10 credits of college history with a minimum cumulative GPA of 2.50 Completion of 10 credits of composition/writing courses with a minimum 2.0 grade for each course. The requirement may be met by a freshman English composition course or a "W" course. Students may apply to the major at any time in the quarter. Transfer students must be enrolled at the UW before applying. Bachelor of Arts degree with a major in History Credential Overview Dynamic, diverse, and intellectually challenging, the Department of History cultivates in undergraduates a lasting curiosity about the world, and imparts useful tools for understanding and participating in it responsibly. With an emphasis on critical reading and writing, discriminating research skills, and persuasive presentation, the history major prepares students for a variety of occupations in the fields of business, government, non-profit, education, and many more. Undergraduates are guided in their path by an excellent and diverse faculty, including eight recipients of Distinguished Teaching Awards – more than any other unit on campus. Our faculty members claim as their areas of expertise nearly every continent on earth, throughout the chronological span of written history. We also have a number of adjunct faculty, allowing students to explore an interdisciplinary approach to their studies. Completion Requirements 60 credits At least one 5-credit course in four of the following six fields: Asia; Europe; Latin America and the Caribbean; Middle East and Africa; United States and Canada; and Comparative and Trans-Regional At least 10 credits in pre-modern history and 10 credits in modern history (as designated by the department) At least 30 upper-division history credits completed in residence at the UW 5 credits of HSTRY 388, to be completed no later than within two quarters of declaring the major 5 credits of undergraduate senior seminar (as designated by the department) Approved electives to reach 60 credits Minimum 2.25 cumulative GPA in courses applied to the major. Back to Top Bachelor of Arts degree with a major in History: Empire and Colonialism Credential Overview This major explores the historical development of imperial and colonial formations around the world, from ancient times to the current era of neoliberalism and globalization. How have imperial and colonial formations shaped larger processes and events in world history? And how have historical actors in both colonies and metropoles experienced, negotiated, advanced, and resisted imperial and colonial domination? Completion Requirements 60 credits At least one 5-credit course in four of the following six fields: Asia; Europe; Latin America and the Caribbean; Middle East and Africa; United States and Canada; and Comparative and Trans-Regional At least 10 credits in pre-modern history and 10 credits in modern history (as designated by the department) At least 30 upper-division history credits completed in residence at the UW 5 credits of HSTRY 388, to be completed no later than within two quarters of declaring the major 5 credits of undergraduate senior seminar (as designated by the department) Approved electives to reach 60 credits Minimum 2.25 cumulative GPA in courses applied to the major. Additional Completion Requirements Option specific credits: 25 credits from approved course list, of which 15 credits must be upper-division. Credit requirements for this option count toward the 60 total credits for the major. HSTRY 388, HSTRY 494, HSTRY 498 do not count for option requirements. See the Department of History for an approved course list for this option. Back to Top Bachelor of Arts degree with a major in History: Race, Gender, and Power Credential Overview This major explores the centrality of race and gender in shaping and reproducing hierarchical relations of power around the world. From social classifications and legal codes in ancient and medieval societies to scientific and cultural conceptions of racial and sexual differences over the last four centuries, how have race and gender defined and denied access to power to justify and naturalize social inequalities? And how have different peoples organized politically around racial and gender identities (e.g., as women, as Chicanas, as First Nations, etc.) to contest and transform social norms? Completion Requirements 60 credits At least one 5-credit course in four of the following six fields: Asia; Europe; Latin America and the Caribbean; Middle East and Africa; United States and Canada; and Comparative and Trans-Regional At least 10 credits in pre-modern history and 10 credits in modern history (as designated by the department) At least 30 upper-division history credits completed in residence at the UW 5 credits of HSTRY 388, to be completed no later than within two quarters of declaring the major 5 credits of undergraduate senior seminar (as designated by the department) Approved electives to reach 60 credits Minimum 2.25 cumulative GPA in courses applied to the major. Additional Completion Requirements Option specific credits: 25 credits from approved course list, of which 15 credits must be upper-division. Credit requirements for this option count toward the 60 total credits for the major. HSTRY 388, HSTRY 494, HSTRY 498 do not count for option requirements. See the Department of History for an approved course list for this option. Back to Top Bachelor of Arts degree with a major in History: Religion and Society Credential Overview This major explores the development of religious traditions worldwide, asking how religious beliefs, practices, and institutions have helped shape culture, politics, and ideology from pre-modern times to the present. Courses in the minor push students to consider the multifarious ways in which religion structures society and is structured by it. Completion Requirements 60 credits At least one 5-credit course in four of the following six fields: Asia; Europe; Latin America and the Caribbean; Middle East and Africa; United States and Canada; and Comparative and Trans-Regional At least 10 credits in pre-modern history and 10 credits in modern history (as designated by the department) At least 30 upper-division history credits completed in residence at the UW 5 credits of HSTRY 388, to be completed no later than within two quarters of declaring the major 5 credits of undergraduate senior seminar (as designated by the department) Approved electives to reach 60 credits Minimum 2.25 cumulative GPA in courses applied to the major. Additional Completion Requirements Option specific credits: 25 credits from approved course list, of which 15 credits must be upper-division. Credit requirements for this option count toward the 60 total credits for the major. HSTRY 388, HSTRY 494, HSTRY 498 do not count for option requirements. See the Department of History for an approved course list for this option. Back to Top Bachelor of Arts degree with a major in History: War and Society Credential Overview This major explores experiences of civil and international wars as a means to question how violence, conflict, and other traumatic acts have shaped political, social, and cultural formations in the past and present. In addition to military history, courses in this minor examine the following aspects of war’s linkage to society: how the experiences and exigencies of war create conditions for broader changes, including changes in notions of territorial integrity, sovereignty, national belonging, citizenship, gender, and race, as people are called to serve in battle zones and on the home front. Completion Requirements 60 credits At least one 5-credit course in four of the following six fields: Asia; Europe; Latin America and the Caribbean; Middle East and Africa; United States and Canada; and Comparative and Trans-Regional At least 10 credits in pre-modern history and 10 credits in modern history (as designated by the department) At least 30 upper-division history credits completed in residence at the UW 5 credits of HSTRY 388, to be completed no later than within two quarters of declaring the major 5 credits of undergraduate senior seminar (as designated by the department) Approved electives to reach 60 credits Minimum 2.25 cumulative GPA in courses applied to the major. Additional Completion Requirements Option specific credits: 25 credits from approved course list, of which 15 credits must be upper-division. Credit requirements for this option count toward the 60 total credits for the major. HSTRY 388, HSTRY 494, HSTRY 498 do not count for option requirements. See the Department of History for an approved course list for this option. Back to Top Program of Study: Minor: History Program Overview The general minor in history allows students to study a range of subjects in different regions and at different periods in time. Students can individually construct a minor around themes not covered in the other minors, as well as work specifically in one region or in one time period. This program of study leads to the following credentials: Minor in History Minor in History of Empire and Colonialism Minor in History of Race, Gender, and Power Minor in History of Religion and Society Minor in History of Science Minor in History of War and Society Minor in History Credential Overview The general minor in history allows students to study a range of subjects in different regions and at different periods in time. Students can individually construct a minor around themes not covered in the other minors, as well as work specifically in one region or in one time period. Completion Requirements 30 credits 30 credits of history, of which 20 must be upper-division Minimum 2.0 grade in each course applied toward the minor Minimum 15 of the 20 upper-division credits must be completed in residence through the UW Back to Top Minor in History of Empire and Colonialism Credential Overview The history of empire and colonialism minor explores the historical development of imperial and colonial formations around the world, from ancient times to the current era of neoliberalism and globalization. How have imperial and colonial formations shaped larger processes and events in world history? And how have historical actors in both colonies and metropoles experienced, negotiated, advanced, and resisted imperial and colonial domination? Completion Requirements 30 credits 30 credits from approved course list, of which 20 credits must be upper-division Minimum 2.00 cumulative GPA in courses applied toward the minor Minimum 15 of the 20 upper-division credits must be completed in residence through the UW. Up to 5 credits may overlap with other minors. Back to Top Minor in History of Race, Gender, and Power Credential Overview The history of race, gender, and power minor explores the centrality of race and gender in shaping and reproducing hierarchical relations of power around the world. From social classifications and legal codes in ancient and medieval societies to scientific and cultural conceptions of racial and sexual differences over the last four centuries, how have race and gender defined and denied access to power to justify and naturalize social inequalities? And how have different peoples organized politically around racial and gender identities (e.g., as women, as Chicanas, as First Nations, etc.) to contest and transform social norms? Completion Requirements 30 credits 30 credits from approved course list, of which 20 credits must be upper-division Minimum 2.00 cumulative GPA in courses applied toward the minor Minimum 15 of the 20 upper-division credits must be completed in residence through the UW. Up to 5 credits may overlap with other minors. Back to Top Minor in History of Religion and Society Credential Overview The history of religion and society minor explores the development of religious traditions worldwide, asking how religious beliefs, practices, and institutions have helped shape culture, politics, and ideology from pre-modern times to the present. Courses in the minor push students to consider the multifarious ways in which religion structures society and is structured by it. Completion Requirements 30 credits 30 credits from approved course list, of which 20 credits must be upper-division Minimum 2.00 cumulative GPA in courses applied toward the minor Minimum 15 of the 20 upper-division credits must be completed in residence through the UW. Up to 5 credits may overlap with other minors. Back to Top Minor in History of Science Credential Overview The history of science minor gives students an introduction to the development of science in history, and its historical interpretation. It includes survey courses, a junior methods seminar, and an independent study project undertaken with the advice of a faculty member. Completion Requirements 25 credits 25 credits, including HSTCMP 311, HSTCMP 312, HSTRY 390, and HSTRY 493; plus one course from an approved list of elective courses Minimum 2.0 grade required in each course Back to Top Minor in History of War and Society Credential Overview The history of war and society minor explores experiences of civil and international wars as a means to question how violence, conflict, and other traumatic acts have shaped political, social, and cultural formations in the past and present. In addition to military history, courses in this minor examine the following aspects of war’s linkage to society: how the experiences and exigencies of war create conditions for broader changes, including changes in notions of territorial integrity, sovereignty, national belonging, citizenship, gender, and race, as people are called to serve in battle zones and on the home front. Completion Requirements 30 credits 30 credits from approved course list, of which 20 credits must be upper-division Minimum 2.00 cumulative GPA in courses applied toward the minor Minimum 15 of the 20 upper-division credits must be completed in residence through the UW. Up to 5 credits may overlap with other minors. Back to Top Additional Information Student Outcomes and Opportunities Learning Objectives and Expected Outcomes: The study of history enhances critical thinking and writing skills. It is a creative process in which students learn to use arguments and evidence to communicate a sound historical thesis. It is a liberal arts degree that encourages students to become well rounded, educated people. Graduates are prepared for a variety of careers in many professions and businesses. In addition to teaching, research, and museum and archives work, recent graduates have pursued careers as political lobbyists, journalists, and law enforcement officers. Many history majors pursue, and are well prepared for, further education and professional programs such as medicine, law, library science, and museum curatorship. Instructional and Research Facilities: The department funds a writing center for students enrolled in history courses. The department also has a small computer laboratory available for history majors. Honors Options Available: With College Honors (Completion of Honors Core Curriculum and Departmental Honors); With Distinction (Completion of Departmental Honors requirements in the major). See adviser for requirements. Research, Internships, and Service Learning: The department encourages students to participate in internships that include historical elements. Students work with a sponsoring organization and a history faculty member. See adviser for details. Department Scholarships: The Faye Wilson Scholarship is awarded to students emphasizing U.S. history and the Schwartz Fellowship to students pursuing historical study of a non-western civilization. The Freedman Remak Scholarship is awarded to non-resident history majors based on academic merit. History majors may compete for two paper prizes: the Thomas Power Prize for papers written in a history course during the last year, and the York/Mason Award for history papers written on African Americans in the West. The Millican Fund and the Willstadter Snow-Smith Award provide funding for travel in the course of historical research. In addition, the department allows students to nominate their high school history teacher for the Pressly Prize, which honors excellence in education. Scholarship and prize competitions run in February and March of each year. See adviser for details. Student Organizations/Associations: Phi Alpha Theta, a history honors society. See adviser for details. Graduate Programs History histgrad@uw.edu Program of Study: Doctor Of Philosophy (History) This program of study leads to the following credentials: Doctor Of Philosophy (History) Doctor Of Philosophy (History: Textual Studies) Admission Requirements Contact department for requirements. Doctor Of Philosophy (History) Completion Requirements Contact department for requirements. Back to Top Doctor Of Philosophy (History: Textual Studies) Completion Requirements Contact department for requirements. Back to Top Program of Study: Master Of Arts (History) This program of study leads to the following credential: Master Of Arts (History) Admission Requirements Contact department for requirements. Master Of Arts (History) Completion Requirements Contact department for requirements. Back to Top University of Washington Be boundless Connect with us: Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Pinterest Accessibility Contact Us Jobs Campus Safety My UW Rules Docket Privacy Terms Newsletter © University of Washington | Seattle, WA