Skip to Main Content Brown University News from Brown Site Navigation Featured Events For Journalists Search Menu All News Breadcrumb Home News from Brown News Search News Archive 2022 2021 2020 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 All Previous Years Subscribe to our weekly newsletter 2033 Results based on your selections. Brown to co-sponsor WaterFire Providence, host Family Weekend visitors for Oct. 16 lighting October 14, 2021 As Saturday evening’s lighting approaches, Brown graduate and WaterFire founder Barnaby Evans shared insights on Brown’s Open Curriculum, and WaterFire’s powerful economic and cultural impact in Providence. Read Article Open details for Brown to co-sponsor WaterFire Providence, host Family Weekend visitors for Oct. 16 lighting News and Events Fueled by soaring financial markets, Brown endowment return tops 50% October 14, 2021 For Fiscal Year 2021, the endowment provided $194 million for student scholarships, scientific research and other strategic priorities — investments in education and research expected to grow markedly in the coming years. Read Article Open details for Fueled by soaring financial markets, Brown endowment return tops 50% Health and Medicine Fewer patients sought treatment for kidney failure in early months of COVID-19 pandemic October 13, 2021 Substantially fewer patients initiated treatment for kidney failure in the beginning of the pandemic, a new study found, with Black patients in particular initiating treatment at significantly worse levels of kidney function. Read Article Open details for Fewer patients sought treatment for kidney failure in early months of COVID-19 pandemic Social Sciences Brown Class of 1991 Ph.D. graduate wins Nobel Prize in Economic Sciences October 11, 2021 Guido Imbens, a Stanford University economist who received his Ph.D. from Brown in 1991, was recognized for his major role in analyzing causal relationships in the social sciences. Read Article Open details for Brown Class of 1991 Ph.D. graduate wins Nobel Prize in Economic Sciences Newly returned Moon rock samples chronicle the dying days of lunar volcanism October 7, 2021 Jim Head, a planetary geologist at Brown, is working with colleagues from China to analyze rocks returned from the Chang’e 5 mission, which recently brought to Earth the first lunar samples retrieved in 45 years. Read Article Open details for Newly returned Moon rock samples chronicle the dying days of lunar volcanism News and Events PHOTOS: Staff and student celebrations at Brown offer chance to reconvene in community October 7, 2021 Brown employees and students turned out by the hundreds for Staff Appreciation Day and a Student Welcome Celebration, respectively, as the University continues its return to near normal operations. Read Article Open details for PHOTOS: Staff and student celebrations at Brown offer chance to reconvene in community Arts and Humanities In exhibition at Brown, Wampanoag artist draws on tradition to celebrate Indigenous rights October 7, 2021 On view at the Granoff Center for the Creative Arts, a belt made of quahog clam shells, deerskin and artificial sinew symbolizes and celebrates a United Nations resolution asserting the rights of Indigenous peoples worldwide. Read Article Open details for In exhibition at Brown, Wampanoag artist draws on tradition to celebrate Indigenous rights Science and Technology Computational biology researcher at Brown wins prestigious early-career NIH award October 5, 2021 With a $1.9 million Genomic Innovator Award, Ritambhara Singh will apply machine learning to better understand the genetic underpinnings of disease. Read Article Open details for Computational biology researcher at Brown wins prestigious early-career NIH award Health and Medicine Depression rates tripled and symptoms intensified during first year of COVID-19 October 5, 2021 A new study found that people with lower incomes and who experienced multiple COVID-related stressors were more likely to feel the toll of the pandemic, as socioeconomic inequities in mental health continue to widen. Read Article Open details for Depression rates tripled and symptoms intensified during first year of COVID-19 Science and Technology Pioneering computer science professor Andy van Dam honored as Computer History Museum fellow October 5, 2021 A virtual event celebrated the legendary Brown University computer science professor for his foundational work in computer graphics and five decades of influential teaching. Read Article Open details for Pioneering computer science professor Andy van Dam honored as Computer History Museum fellow Science and Technology Brown scientist wins NIH innovator award to illuminate undetected brain activity October 5, 2021 A five-year, $1.5 million grant from the National Institutes of Health will support Ahmed Abdelfattah’s research to shed light on brain activity, which could ultimately benefit patients facing a range of disorders. Read Article Open details for Brown scientist wins NIH innovator award to illuminate undetected brain activity Social Sciences Making sense of the census: In 2021, America is less racially segregated, but no less unequal October 4, 2021 Brown University sociologist John Logan said the 2020 census data released this summer show that race, not income, is still the driving factor behind who lives where in the United States. Read Article Open details for Making sense of the census: In 2021, America is less racially segregated, but no less unequal Arts and Humanities Miguel Gutierrez: Coming full circle, from an unexpected angle October 4, 2021 As a member of the Class of 2021, award-winning performer and choreographer Miguel Gutierrez completed the Brown degree he had begun 31 years before, finding unexpected peace while fulfilling his parents’ dream. Read Article Open details for Miguel Gutierrez: Coming full circle, from an unexpected angle Science and Technology NIH awards Brown $10.8M to expand data-informed research to fight human disease September 29, 2021 The COBRE Center for Computational Biology of Human Disease is advancing the use of computational tools among biomedical scientists at Brown, helping them unlock new insights that could ultimately benefit patients. Read Article Open details for NIH awards Brown $10.8M to expand data-informed research to fight human disease Social Sciences Brown economist Jesse Shapiro wins MacArthur ‘genius grant’ September 28, 2021 Shapiro, a professor of economics, won $625,000 in no-strings-attached funds to advance his innovative research using data to understand and confront complex social issues. Read Article Open details for Brown economist Jesse Shapiro wins MacArthur ‘genius grant’ Arts and Humanities In Guatemala, archaeologist from Brown helps to uncover hidden neighborhood in ancient Maya city September 28, 2021 The newly discovered structures provide game-changing evidence that the imperial power of Teotihuacan exerted considerable influence on Tikal, an ancient Maya capital, as part of a campaign of conquest. Read Article Open details for In Guatemala, archaeologist from Brown helps to uncover hidden neighborhood in ancient Maya city Science and Technology Asteroid sample brought back to Earth gets a close-up look at Brown September 27, 2021 Brown scientists are analyzing a tiny chunk of the asteroid Ryugu in an effort to better understand the early history of the solar system. Read Article Open details for Asteroid sample brought back to Earth gets a close-up look at Brown Health and Medicine Novel cellular mechanism sheds light on causes of childhood developmental disorder September 22, 2021 New findings from a Brown research team about Christianson syndrome could eventually be used to inform therapeutic interventions for that disorder as well as for neurodegenerative conditions like Alzheimer’s disease. Read Article Open details for Novel cellular mechanism sheds light on causes of childhood developmental disorder News and Events National, global education rankings place Brown among world’s top universities September 21, 2021 From the Wall Street Journal to U.S. News and World Report, prominent rankings and surveys in the last year gave Brown high marks for its distinctive student experience, world-class teaching and high-impact research. Read Article Open details for National, global education rankings place Brown among world’s top universities News and Events Sarah C. Latham appointed Brown’s executive vice president for finance and administration September 20, 2021 Currently the vice chancellor for business and administrative services at the University of California Santa Cruz, Latham will lead all administrative, business and financial operations for Brown effective Jan. 1, 2022. Read Article Open details for Sarah C. Latham appointed Brown’s executive vice president for finance and administration Health and Medicine Men, jobless and people with mental health diagnoses most vulnerable in 2020 overdose spike September 17, 2021 New findings about the causes and characteristics of overdose deaths during the COVID-19 pandemic may be used to inform policies that could lower death rates even after COVID-19 is under control. Read Article Open details for Men, jobless and people with mental health diagnoses most vulnerable in 2020 overdose spike News and Events New center and residence hall realizes Brown’s vision for integrated student wellness experience September 16, 2021 The University’s recently opened health and wellness center and residence hall is bringing together students and staff committed to promoting student well-being through collaborative care and community building. Read Article Open details for New center and residence hall realizes Brown’s vision for integrated student wellness experience News and Events Lawrence Larson to step down as Brown’s inaugural School of Engineering dean September 16, 2021 The accomplished dean and professor of engineering, who has led the school since its inception in 2011 and oversaw a decade of growth, will return to teaching and research after the 2021-22 academic year. Read Article Open details for Lawrence Larson to step down as Brown’s inaugural School of Engineering dean Science and Technology New report assesses progress and risks of artificial intelligence September 16, 2021 A report by a panel of experts chaired by a Brown professor concludes that AI has made a major leap from the lab to people’s lives in recent years, which increases the urgency to understand its potential negative effects. Read Article Open details for New report assesses progress and risks of artificial intelligence Social Sciences Database led by Brown economist reveals school-level look at COVID-19’s impact on K-12 education September 15, 2021 The COVID-19 School Data Hub, the brainchild of Brown Professor of Economics Emily Oster, could help families, researchers and policymakers better understand the pandemic’s impact on learning. Read Article Open details for Database led by Brown economist reveals school-level look at COVID-19’s impact on K-12 education Arts and Humanities With new federal grant, Brown to host training institute based on digital scholarship expertise September 14, 2021 A grant from the National Endowment for the Humanities will establish a training program for under-resourced scholars focused on growing and diversifying interactive, media-rich digital scholarship nationally. Read Article Open details for With new federal grant, Brown to host training institute based on digital scholarship expertise News and Events 9/11 at 20: Brown community members gather in memorial to lives lost September 10, 2021 At a memorial marker on Wriston Quad that honors the six Brown alumni killed on 9/11, students, faculty and staff honored each of those graduates and reflected on the defining two-decade impact of the attacks. Read Article Open details for 9/11 at 20: Brown community members gather in memorial to lives lost Health and Medicine 9/11 at 20: Ground zero doctor from Brown recalls ‘a singular event in history that brought us together’ September 9, 2021 Dr. Selim Suner led the Rhode Island Disaster Medical Assistance Team deployed to ground zero on Sept. 11, 2001, a group that included 14 volunteers from Brown’s medical school community. Read Article Open details for 9/11 at 20: Ground zero doctor from Brown recalls ‘a singular event in history that brought us together’ Arts and Humanities 9/11 at 20: Two decades later, Brown faculty artist reflects on ‘Tribute in Light’ and 9/11 aftermath September 9, 2021 Paul Myoda, co-designer of the installation that lights up New York City skies every year on Sept. 11 and now a Brown associate professor of visual art, vividly remembers the day the piece debuted nearly 20 years ago. Read Article Open details for 9/11 at 20: Two decades later, Brown faculty artist reflects on ‘Tribute in Light’ and 9/11 aftermath Health and Medicine With $4.9M from the CDC, Brown researchers to study COVID vaccine effectiveness in seniors September 8, 2021 The urgently needed research will be used to inform recommendations about vaccine booster shots for nursing home residents. Read Article Open details for With $4.9M from the CDC, Brown researchers to study COVID vaccine effectiveness in seniors Student Life Student storytelling series unlocks the power of personal narrative September 8, 2021 “Writing My Own Story,” a summer workshop series organized by the Brown Center for Students of Color and the Global Brown Center, invited students to explore their personal stories and learn from those of others. Read Article Open details for Student storytelling series unlocks the power of personal narrative Arts and Humanities Public conversation series to bring local artists, writers, musicians to Brown September 8, 2021 With a focus on the greater Providence community, in-person conversations at the John Nicholas Brown Center for Public Humanities and Cultural Heritage will feature the work and ideas of creative public figures. Read Article Open details for Public conversation series to bring local artists, writers, musicians to Brown News and Events 52 accomplished scholars join Brown faculty as 2021-22 academic year begins September 7, 2021 As the 2021-22 academic year begins, Brown welcomes a diverse and dynamic group of talented new faculty members and scholars to campus. Read Article Open details for 52 accomplished scholars join Brown faculty as 2021-22 academic year begins Student Life Katherine Haley: A long journey, lit by learning September 7, 2021 A lifelong love of learning served as a beacon for Katherine Haley, a third-year transfer student who overcame addiction to become a member of Brown’s incoming undergraduate cohort. Read Article Open details for Katherine Haley: A long journey, lit by learning Student Life Mason Lee: Inspired by nature to create connected communities September 7, 2021 The incoming first-year Brown student aims to combine interests in biotechnology, firefighting and fungi to build communities across U.S. states and fields of study. Read Article Open details for Mason Lee: Inspired by nature to create connected communities Student Life Alejandro Jackson: A compassionate approach to science and biotechnology September 7, 2021 A first-year student beginning Brown’s distinctive eight-year Program in Liberal Medical Education, Alejandro Jackson aspires to become an M.D./Ph.D. who develops new technologies for amputees to improve quality of life. Read Article Open details for Alejandro Jackson: A compassionate approach to science and biotechnology News and Events Meet Brown’s newest undergraduates September 7, 2021 With classes set to begin on Wednesday, September 8, this year’s first-year, transfer and Resumed Undergraduate Education students are settling into living and learning on College Hill. Read Article Open details for Meet Brown’s newest undergraduates At its 258th Opening Convocation, Brown officially commences 2021-22 academic year September 6, 2021 University President Christina H. Paxson and Professor of Africana Studies Noliwe Rooks looked to Brown’s history for lessons on how to center truth and advance knowledge amid a challenging global moment. Read Article Open details for At its 258th Opening Convocation, Brown officially commences 2021-22 academic year Arts and Humanities In Athens, new Acropolis renovations threaten to erase ancient history, expert says September 3, 2021 Archaeologists across the globe, including one scholar at Brown, believe recent renovations at the iconic Athens landmark are promoting the site’s classical past — and ignoring the rest of its history. Read Article Open details for In Athens, new Acropolis renovations threaten to erase ancient history, expert says News and Events Brown launches master’s program in data-enabled computational engineering and science September 2, 2021 A new one-year master’s program will take a deep dive into the state-of-the-art simulation, modeling and data science techniques widely used across engineering disciplines. Read Article Open details for Brown launches master’s program in data-enabled computational engineering and science News and Events Brown’s newest students, by the numbers September 2, 2021 A total of 3,038 new undergraduate, graduate and medical students will begin studies at Brown University next week — here’s a look at who is arriving on College Hill. Read Article Open details for Brown’s newest students, by the numbers Health and Medicine Dr. Ashish Jha: It’s time to ‘turn a public health moment into a public health movement’ September 2, 2021 In his first “State of the School” address, the dean of the Brown School of Public Health detailed an ambitious plan to learn and grow from the lessons of the COVID-19 pandemic. Read Article Open details for Dr. Ashish Jha: It’s time to ‘turn a public health moment into a public health movement’ Social Sciences Costs of the 20-year war on terror: $8 trillion and 900,000 deaths September 1, 2021 A report from the Costs of War project at Brown University revealed that 20 years of post-9/11 wars have cost the U.S. an estimated $8 trillion and have killed more than 900,000 people. Read Article Open details for Costs of the 20-year war on terror: $8 trillion and 900,000 deaths Arts and Humanities In first in-person public exhibition in 18 months, Brown’s Bell Gallery showcases R.I., Mass. artists September 1, 2021 “Arrows of Desire” features the work of two local artists who bonded over a shared love of nature and the poet William Blake during the COVID-19 pandemic. Read Article Open details for In first in-person public exhibition in 18 months, Brown’s Bell Gallery showcases R.I., Mass. artists Health and Medicine With first chief wellness officer, Brown’s medical school emphasizes well-being for future physicians August 26, 2021 As the inaugural chief wellness officer for the Warren Alpert Medical School, Kelly Holder is advising aspiring doctors to heal thyselves, and working to build programs and infrastructure to support that goal. Read Article Open details for With first chief wellness officer, Brown’s medical school emphasizes well-being for future physicians Science and Technology New $19.9M grant will expand hub for translational science, biomedical research in Rhode Island August 19, 2021 With five years of renewed federal funding, Advance-CTR will support researchers in taking their work from bench to bedside to the broader community, ultimately making a direct and positive impact on the people of Rhode Island. Read Article Open details for New $19.9M grant will expand hub for translational science, biomedical research in Rhode Island Health and Medicine Parisa Afsharian: Translating research into actionable health advice August 18, 2021 As a Hassenfeld Summer Scholar, Afsharian is researching the connection between language and health outcomes – and using her multilingualism to improve the health of families. Read Article Open details for Parisa Afsharian: Translating research into actionable health advice Social Sciences In new book, Emily Oster offers tips for family decision-making August 17, 2021 The Brown economist’s third book, “The Family Firm,” gives parents of elementary school children the tools they need to make informed choices about schooling, extracurriculars and more. Read Article Open details for In new book, Emily Oster offers tips for family decision-making Science and Technology Beware the ‘molecular parasites’ involved in aging and disease August 17, 2021 Brown researcher John Sedivy, lead author of a sweeping review article about transposons, explains what these mobile genetic elements are, how they are more harmful than benign and where their weaknesses may lie. Read Article Open details for Beware the ‘molecular parasites’ involved in aging and disease Social Sciences Josh Bricker: Investigating whether low public defender spending explains high incarceration rates August 12, 2021 As a summer research assistant, the rising senior is analyzing decades of data to investigate whether increasing spending on state public defender programs could lower America’s uniquely high incarceration rate. Read Article Open details for Josh Bricker: Investigating whether low public defender spending explains high incarceration rates Previous 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 … Next Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown Social Navigation Facebook Instagram LinkedIn Snapchat Twitter YouTube Social Media Directory © Brown University Brown University For You Current Students Faculty Staff Parents & Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Featured Events For Journalists Topics Arts and Humanities Environment Health and Medicine News and Events Science and Technology Social Sciences Student Life University Initiatives Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation About Events For You Give to Brown All of Brown.edu People News Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search All News Open details for All News Bookmark this Page