Skip to main content Cornell University Library Search Cornell University Library Support Teaching Learning Research I am... Off-Campus/Study Abroad A Faculty member/Instructor A Graduate Student An Undergraduate Student An International Student New to Cornell An Alum A Visitor Staff Help Trouble Connecting Search Tips: Articles Search Tips: Catalog COVID-19 updates Search Search Search this site About Us Inside the Library News Events Collections Visitor Information Staff Partnerships and Initiatives Public Policies Libraries Textbooks Tools for Instructors Contact Reserves Staff Student Textbook Request Form Research Citation Management Current Awareness Introduction to Research Research Guides Meet with a Librarian Services Borrow, Renew, Return Policies Borrow Direct, Interlibrary Loan (ILL) and Material Requests Copyright and Digitization Disability Services Evidence Synthesis Service Instruction and Workshops Library Liaisons Library Spaces OverDrive Passkey and Library Apps Privacy Services Research Data Management Services Scholarly Publishing, Repositories, and Open Access Streaming Video Visiting Partner Libraries Ask a Librarian Chat Email Meet with a Librarian Reference Desk Directory My Account Teaching & Course Support Resources & Support for Learning Research COVID-19 updates Home About Us Collections Collections Cornell University Library's collections encompass a rich and varied universe of printed volumes, digital resources, maps, media and archival materials. The Library holds over 8 million volumes and over a million ebooks. With close to 5 million journal article downloads per year and 91 percent of the 120,000 current serial titles available online, the Library's digital collection continues to grow at a rapid pace. Subject Strengths The Library has long been known for its nationally prominent collections in Southeast Asia studies, industrial relations, viticulture and Old Norse and Icelandic materials, as well as for solid research-level collections in agriculture, astronomy, chemistry, classics, French history and literature, human development, mathematics, medieval studies, microbiology, North European language and literature, physics and western European social sciences. The Library’s material and digital collections are administered by a large staff of expert subject librarians. Contact List for Subject Librarians Collection Policies by Subject Request Form for Library Purchases CUL Collection Development Principles Timely access to research and learning content for the Cornell community is the Library’s first priority in the scholarly resources arena. It is a prerequisite for continuing to develop Cornell’s academic distinction, educational verve and community engagement. Since Collection Development continues to be an important tool for the Library to achieve this priority, the following principles have been drafted to inform collection development policy and practice: The Cornell University Library (CUL) collections are developed for use by the Cornell community today and in the future. Collection development at CUL also supports collection preservation, and the availability of content beyond the Cornell community. Collection development at CUL benefits from coordination of effort with other research and learning institutions. Collection development at CUL seeks to make the best possible use of limited financial resources and takes into account all the costs of ownership and access (including acquisition, processing, storage, preservation). The success of collection development at CUL is measured by regular quantitative and qualitative assessment. CUL’s collection development principles are reviewed regularly to align with changing university priorities. Digital Collections A leader in digital library research and development since the early 1990’s, CUL is building collections with local and global partners as well as licensing access to a rapidly expanding collection of electronic resources in all fields of scholarship. We have extensive holdings of electronic journals, books, primary texts of various kinds, digital images of fine artworks from around the globe, statistical data files and hundreds of indexes, abstracts and search tools. Cornell Digital Collections Licensing Electronic Resources Rare Book & Manuscript Collections Cornell University’s rare book and manuscript collections date from the founding of the University in 1865. Andrew Dickson White, Cornell's co-founder and first president, was a life-long book collector who believed that deep collections of primary resources are central to scholarship and teaching. These founding ideas continue to guide Cornell's collection building policies to this day. Collections of rare materials are primarily found in the Division of Rare and Manuscript Collections in Carl A. Kroch Library, but several other campus libraries — including Catherwood, Law, and Mann — maintain rare materials, as well. Division of Rare and Manuscript Collections Kheel Center for Labor-Management Documentation & Archives Albert R. Mann Library Law Library Exhibitions Library exhibitions, both online and in person, help nourish and inspire intellectual curiosity and creativity at Cornell. Learn more about our Online Exhibitions and see individual libraries to find physical exhibitions. Funding To meet the research and teaching needs of the Cornell community across the disciplines, the Library’s collections budget pays for access to a vast range of resources – text, images, data, and more in various electronic and physical formats. The collections budget, which totals around $18 million annually, is comprised of an appropriation from the University, restricted and unrestricted endowment funds, and gifts to the Library. Read our Funding FAQ. Giving Unrestricted gifts, no matter what the amount, help support every facet of Cornell University Library operations — from enriching our holdings and expanding our resources, to preserving our collections, to improving our services with advanced technology. Find out more about Giving Opportunities. About Us Inside the Library News Events Collections Subject Librarians Special Collections Visual Resources Digital Collections Online Exhibitions Licensing Electronic Resources Cornell Open Access Publication Fund Collection Funding FAQ Visitor Information Staff Partnerships and Initiatives Public Policies News Congratulations to our 2022 Elevator Art Contest Winners! More news » Events Resistance Is Personal: The Photobook as Protest at Johnson Museum of Art More events » | Book Talks » Library Insider Staff Profile: Reanna Karim Esmail More Library Insider » Spotlight Congratulations to our 2022 Elevator Art Contest Winners! Menu Library Home About Us Libraries Textbooks Research Services Ask a Librarian My Account Cornell Cornell.edu CUinfo Search Cornell Help Trouble Connecting Search Tips: Articles Search Tips: Catalog Resources Search Catalog Articles & Full Text Databases E-journal Titles Images I am... Off Campus & Studying Abroad A Faculty member &/or Instructor A Graduate Student An Undergraduate Student An International Student An Alum A Visitor Staff Library Staff Staff login Send us feedback Give to the Library ©2021 Cornell University Library, Ithaca, NY 14853 | (607) 255-4144 | Privacy | Web Accessibility Assistance Facebook Twitter Instagram