Skip to Content Menu Audiences Clemson.edu PSA CAFLS Resources A-Z Index Calendar Campus Maps Phonebook Apply Now Make a Gift Academics Research Extension About Giving Programs County Offices Who We Are Publications Resources Contact Welcome to Carolina Clear Carolina Clear Carolina Clear FOG Campaign: Learn How to Can It, Cool It, Trash It! MENU Regional Consortiums What You Can Do Programs Meet the Team Media and Communications Statewide Survey Activity Database Regional Consortiums What You Can Do Programs Meet the Team Media and Communications Statewide Survey Activity Database Clemson Extension’s Carolina Clear program works to educate the citizens of South Carolina of issues associated with polluted stormwater runoff and raise awareness of actions and behaviors that ultimately protect our water resources. Carolina Clear provides trainings, workshops, resources, mass media campaigns, demonstration projects, and youth programs to meet the needs of our communities. Click here to expand for more information! Carolina Clear partners with over 38 local governments in South Carolina to provide stormwater education, outreach, and public involvement opportunities. The resulting six regional stormwater consortiums are each guided by a strategic plan, specific to the needs of the local watershed; the plan outlines education strategies based on target pollutants of concern. Click HERE to find a regional Consortium near you! We all play a part in helping to protect our water resources for current and future generations. Browse our website to learn more about watershed stewardship. Sign up for the Clemson Extension Water Resources Team E-newsletter and follow us on Facebook to stay in touch about future program offerings and announcements! Sign up for Clemson Extension Water Resources Team E-Newsletter Check out our Facebook and YouTube pages! Top News More News Home Meet The Team Programs What You Can Do Regional Consortiums Media & Communications Statewide Survey Activity Database Contact info: Kim Morganello Water Resources Extension Associate Carolina Clear Program Coordinator kcounts@clemson.edu (843) 730-5212 Clemson University Cooperative Extension Service offers its programs to people of all ages, regardless of race, color, gender, religion, national origin, disability, political beliefs, sexual orientation, gender identity, marital or family status and is an equal opportunity employer. Copyright © 2022 Clemson University Clemson Cooperative Extension Clemson, SC Contact Us Emergency Preparedness Web Accessibility For Employees Page Update Request