Skip to main content iastate.edu Index A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z Directory Maps Safety Sign Ons AccessPlus Canvas CyBox CyMail Okta Outlook More Sign Ons... Iowa State University News Service Menu Toggle Search Toggle Search News Releases Video Resources Broadcast studio Campus images Faculty, staff headshots More News Inside Iowa State Employee announcements Student announcements Campus news Change agents The Conversation Futurity Contact us News Service Monday, May 30 Startups near state lines gravitate toward side with lower property tax May 24, 2022 Researchers at Iowa State University found significantly different state tax rates affect where new businesses set up shop near state lines and that property taxes have the greatest adverse effect since new businesses may pay property taxes even if they are not generating any revenue. New model could improve matches between students and schools May 18, 2022 Simultaneous and uncoordinated school admissions in situations where students have multiple options can lead to unfilled seats and a lot of stress for families and administrators. To create a fairer, more efficient system, market design researchers created a matchmaking model that draws from game theory, computer science and industrial engineering. Science for a Sustainable Future May 17, 2022 An integral part of Iowa State University’s legacy of science, engineering and innovation, Ames Laboratory celebrates 75 years in 2022. The national laboratory is shaping its future much like it shaped its past: by being first, by forging new ground and by using science to meet national and global challenges. In franchising, playing tough early may support long-term benefits May 16, 2022 To protect their brand or uphold uniformity, franchisors sometimes terminate contracts with franchisees. A new study found profitability decreased right after termination but essentially bounced back in two years. The researchers also discovered young, rapidly growing chains benefited more from ending contracts with wayward franchisees compared to mature, slow growing chains. More greens, less sugar and fries: Abriendo Caminos study finds promising results May 12, 2022 A study evaluating the effect of the Abriendo Caminos program on dietary behaviors of Hispanic children found youth participants consumed sugar-sweetened beverages, french fries and fast food less frequently and ate vegetables more often after the six-week workshop series. Iowa State spring commencement events are May 12-14 May 11, 2022 An estimated 5,039 students are completing degrees from Iowa State this semester and will be honored during graduation events May 12-14 in Hilton Coliseum. All commencement ceremonies are in-person, but will be livestreamed for those who opt to view online. Researchers reveal the origin story for carbon-12, a building block for life May 10, 2022 After running simulations on the world's most powerful supercomputer, an international team of researchers has developed a theory for the nuclear structure and origin of carbon-12, the stuff of life. The theory favors the production of carbon-12 in the cosmos. Graduating senior Marissa Ouverson is a world champion griller May 9, 2022 When the pandemic sent students online, Marissa Ouverson decided to try her hand at competitive steak grilling, traveling around the country and ultimately becoming a world champion. Future veterinarian overcomes language barrier to find success at Iowa State May 9, 2022 Valeria Miranda Ortiz spoke no English when she arrived at Iowa State. No matter: She spent hours learning the language — and two others — to achieve her dream of becoming a veterinarian. Spanish degree takes Iowa State senior on global adventures May 9, 2022 What was supposed to be a one-off summer job as a farmhand in high school turned into a lifelong passion for agriculture that led Adam Bittner to Iowa State, to a Spanish degree and to travels around the globe. Distinguished Professor named to National Academy of Sciences May 5, 2022 Dr. Qijing Zhang, a Clarence Harley Covault Distinguished Professor in Veterinary Medicine, has been elected to the National Academy of Sciences, in recognition of his distinguished and continuing achievements in original research. Zhang is among 120 new members and 30 international members named to the prestigious academy. Men’s Cyclone Hockey Club suspended as part of university investigation May 4, 2022 Iowa State University is investigating allegations of hazing and other reported concerns related to the Men’s Cyclone Hockey Club. Based on the serious nature of the allegations, the university has issued an interim suspension of all men’s team activities, effective immediately. Innovation at Work: Taking the classroom to Main Street May 3, 2022 Each semester, Iowa State student teams partner with a specific community in Iowa, bringing fresh ideas to help businesses stay competitive. Postcard from Campus: Late Spring May 19, 2022 Spring may have come late to campus, but its arrival was as beautiful as ever. #IowaStateInnovates Apr 8, 2022 This series highlights the collaboration and creativity that fuel Iowa State faculty and scientists to find solutions to big challenges, from strengthening mental health to beautifying Iowa communities, to finding new markets for next-generation agricultural products. This collection of words, photos, video and audio showcases Iowa State University's Innovation at Work. In the news The Insiders: Nationwide baby formula shortage WHO 13 May 22, 2022 Professor of Supply Chain Management Frank Montabon discusses what created the nationwide baby formula shortage and challenges to quickly increase capacity. Esport and video game lounges growing in popularity Cedar Rapids Gazette May 9, 2022 In February 2021, Iowa State debuted its 33-desktop esports and gaming space, divided into two areas — a competitive room with 13 computers and an open space with 20. The darkened room also includes four consoles for drop-in use, equipped with PlayStation 4, Xbox One, and Nintendo Switch. The Esports and Gaming Room is located in Beyer Hall. Strategic Relations and Communications News Service 2420 Lincoln Way, Suite 201 Ames, Iowa 50014-8340 news@iastate.edu 515-294-8986 phone Facebook @iowastateunews @iowastateu YouTube Social Media Directory Copyright © 1995- Iowa State University of Science and Technology All rights reserved. Non-discrimination Policy Privacy Policy Digital Access & Accessibility Loading...