Skip to main content Navigation Academics Admissions Research Locations Student Life Alumni & Giving Athletics Apply Now Master of Public Administration, MPA Further Your Cause By Making Policy Your Passion Request Info Program at a Glance Program Master College(s) College of Community Innovation and Education Department(s) Public Administration, Schl of 2 Years In State Tuition Out of State Tuition $369.65 per credit hour $1,194.05 per credit hour Learn more about program tuition and fees. Connect With The Community Through Public Service With an MPA Degree Investing in a Master of Public Administration (MPA) degree inspires students to become better leaders — creating expansive opportunities for themselves and the public service they provide. Whether students take courses on campus or through the online MPA program, their coursework covers a wide range of topics — incorporating service learning, providing real-world experiences, developing community partnerships and cultivating leadership skills. With a focus on strategic planning, public policy, organizational management, financial management and more, students graduate prepared for a rewarding career in public administration or the opportunity to advance in their current position. Over the next decade, the need for skilled public administration professionals will continue to grow within a number of industries, including finance and insurance, scientific and technical services, state and federal governments, nonprofits, educational services and healthcare. UCF’s MPA degree is accredited by the Network of Schools of Public Policy, Affairs and Administration (NASPAA) and nationally ranked by U.S. News & World Report — making it a top-rated program for those looking to continue their education. Public Administration MPA – Criminal Justice MS Dual Degree Track Gain the analytical skills and knowledge necessary for holding leadership positions within the public administration and criminal justice fields through this track — earning two graduate degrees concurrently. Public Administration MPA – Nonprofit Management MNM Dual Degree Track Earn two graduate degree programs through this track — focusing on the relationship between nonprofit management and public administration through research, theory, policy and organizational administration. Request Information Highlights Recognized as the No. 5 online MPA program by BestColleges Ranked No. 38 in Best Public Affairs Programs by U.S. News and World Report Projected job growth for administrative services managers is 7% through 2028 Administrative services managers make a median annual pay of $96K Application Deadlines Fall June 1 Spring November 1 Ready to get started? Apply Today Course Overview Public Administrators in the Governance Process Examine the political, social, economic and moral context of modern public administration —emphasizing the ethical dimensions of the administrator’s role. Strategic Planning and Management Understand the examination and analysis of planning, goal setting and strategic management in public sector organizations. Advanced Concepts and Applications in Public Administration Apply a number of skills gained throughout this program in a capstone course — getting hands on with selected public problems to work through. View All Public Administration Courses You'll Take Skills You'll Gain With an MPA Drive change on a local and national scale, promoting public good and social justice for all communities Manage various public sector programs through the planning, implementing, managing and evaluating stages Analyze data to gain insights for each campaign — helping determine a path forward and areas to improve Lead public, private and nonprofit organizations to make positive impact on society Career Opportunities Administrative Services Manager City Manager City Planner Director of Education Education Administrator Nonprofit Manager Program Analyst Private Sector Roles Admission Requirements Students interested in earning a Master of Public Administration can apply for fall or spring admission. While there is no undergraduate program limitation, students must hold a bachelor’s degree from a regionally accredited institution with a minimum overall GPA of 3.0 or within the last 60 credit hours. International students may find a list of detailed requirements by visiting global.ucf.edu. Request Information In addition to UCF’s general graduate admissions requirements, the following materials must be provided: Official, sealed transcripts from each university/college attended 3 letters of recommendation Resume Goal statement Request Information Master of Public Administration, MPA News Check out more stories Community UCF Student Reflects on Pulse Shooting 4 Years Later Graduate criminal justice student Zoe Williamson was visiting from England and on a police ride-along when she stepped up to assist first-responders and victims at… Alumni Alumna at the Ready to Help Orlando Airports in Emergencies Public administration graduate assists aviation authority to earn ‘gold seal’ in preparedness and crisis management. Research New UCF Project Will Put Downtown Orlando Air Quality Data in Residents’ Hands More than 100 air sensors will be installed throughout Downtown Orlando and will provide near-real-time data about air quality to residents via smart devices. Alumni UCF Grad Lands Emergency Management Job After Hurricane Experiences After working with the local and state government to manage crises, the soon-to-be alum will use her expertise to help with hospital operations. Peace Corps Ranks UCF in Top 25 Volunteer-Producing Universities A proud alumni of the public administration program, Mervin Greaves ’12MPA, applies the leadership and management skills that he obtained through course studies — serving now as an impactful community and youth development volunteer in Armenia. See Knights' impacts around the world Degree Search College of Community Innovation and Education programs Masters Public Administration (MPA) University of Central Florida Colleges Burnett Honors Arts and Humanities Business Engineering and Computer Science Graduate Studies Health Professions and Sciences Medicine Nursing Optics and Photonics Sciences Undergraduate Studies Hospitality Management Request Information × Enter your information below to receive more information about the Public Administration (MPA) program offered at UCF. Loading... × The program provides exciting opportunities for students to prepare for employment or advance their careers in public and nonprofit organizations. Please note: Public Administration (MPA) may be completed fully online, although not all elective options or program prerequisites may be offered online. Newly admitted students choosing to complete this program exclusively via UCF online classes may enroll with a reduction in campus-based fees. International students (F or J visa) are required to enroll in a full-time course load of 9 credit hours during the fall and spring semesters. Only 3 of the 9 credit hours may be taken in a completely online format. For a detailed listing of enrollment requirements for international students, please visit http://global.ucf.edu/. If you have questions, please consult UCF Global at 407-823-2337. UCF is not authorized to provide online courses or instruction to students in some states. Refer to State Restrictions for current information. Degree Requirements Core (See Program Details for Course Prerequisites) 27 Total Credits Complete the following: PAD6035 - Public Administration in the Policy Process (3) PAD6037 - Public Organization Management (3) PAD6053 - Public Administrators in the Governance Process (3) PAD6700 - Research Methods in Public Administration (3) PAD6701 - Analytical Techniques for Public Administration (3) PAD6227 - Public Budgeting (3) PAD6207 - Public Financial Management (3) PAD6417 - Human Resource Management (3) PAD6335 - Strategic Planning and Management (3) Capstone 3 Total Credits Students will engage in a capstone experience that builds upon the knowledge and skills gained from completing the core courses in the MPA program. Students will complete this requirement through enrollment in PAD 6062 - Advanced Concepts and Applications in Public Administration. PAD 6062 is offered in fall and spring semesters only and may be taken following the completion of all core courses. Course 3 Total Credits Complete the following: PAD6062 - Advanced Concepts and Applications in Public Administration (3) Electives (See Program Details for more information) 12 Total Credits Earn at least 12 credits from the following: PAD6826 - Urban Policy and Regional Governance (3) PAD5186 - Policy Advocacy for Social Justice (3) PAD5887 - Energy Policy (3) PAD5930 - Global Cities (3) PAD6439 - Leadership in Public Service (3) PAD6836 - Comparative Global Public Administration (3) PAD6934 - Special Issues in Public Administration (3) PAD6946 - Internship (3) PAD6825 - Cross-Sectoral Governance (3) PAD6705 - Public Sector Communications (3) Grand Total Credits: 42 Application Requirements For information on general UCF graduate admission requirements that apply to all prospective students, please visit the Admissions section of the Graduate Catalog. Applicants must apply online. All requested materials must be submitted by the established deadline. The MPA program is offered as either a campus-based classroom (face-to-face) program or a completely online program. Applicants must select one option at the time of admission. Admission requirements and the admission process is the same regardless of which option the applicant chooses. Admission is open to those with a bachelor's degree from a regionally accredited institution with a minimum overall undergraduate GPA of 3.0 or better (on a 4.0 scale) or in the last 60 hours. Students must submit all required materials by the established deadline. Materials received after the established deadline may not be considered. Admission to this graduate program is competitive; applicants meeting the minimum application requirements are not guaranteed admission to the program. In addition to meeting general UCF graduate application requirements, applicants to this program must provide: An official transcript meeting the minimum GPA requirement of 3.0 (on a 4.0 scale), in a sealed envelope, from each college/university attended. The GRE is not required for admission to this program. Three letters of recommendation specifically for the MPA program evaluating scholarly and professional capacity. Letters from professors from the colleges/universities attended are preferred, but if that is not feasible, letters from current or past supervisors will be accepted. The recommender must address the applicant's work ethic and ability to succeed at graduate-level academic work. Current professional résumé including public service experience (paid or voluntary). Goal Statement: The goal statement is a key component of the admission review process and serves as an example of the applicant's ability to express himself or herself in writing. The goal statement must be no longer than two pages double-spaced (500-800 words) and should address the following: Personal background and career aspirations in public service. Reason for pursuing graduate study in public administration, including future career goals and plans. Specific areas of public administration that interests you. Applicants applying to this program who have attended a college/university outside the United States must provide a course-by-course credential evaluation with GPA calculation. Credential evaluations are accepted from World Education Services (WES) or Josef Silny and Associates, Inc. only. All international students must meet the university's minimum TOEFL score requirements regardless of the language in which the undergraduate program was completed. A limited number of students who do not meet the GPA requirements may be admitted on a provisional basis. These students must demonstrate Public Administration experience and provide a clear statement of educational goals. Application Deadlines Public Administration MPA *Fall Priority Fall Spring Summer Domestic Applicants Jan 15 Jun 1 Nov 1 International Applicants Jan 15 Jan 15 Jul 1 This program has reached its maximum capacity and is not accepting new applications for spring 2022. The next available admit semester is Fall 2022. *Applicants who plan to enroll full time in a degree program and who wish to be considered for university fellowships or assistantships should apply by the Fall Priority date. Financial Information Graduate students may receive financial assistance through fellowships, assistantships, tuition support, or loans. For more information, see the College of Graduate Studies Funding website, which describes the types of financial assistance available at UCF and provides general guidance in planning your graduate finances. The Financial Information section of the Graduate Catalog is another key resource. Fellowship Information Fellowships are awarded based on academic merit to highly qualified students. They are paid to students through the Office of Student Financial Assistance, based on instructions provided by the College of Graduate Studies. Fellowships are given to support a student's graduate study and do not have a work obligation. For more information, see UCF Graduate Fellowships, which includes descriptions of university fellowships and what you should do to be considered for a fellowship. University of Central Florida About UCF Contact Us Faculty Online Degrees Policies Privacy Notice Public Records Regulations Report a Concern UCF News 4000 Central Florida Blvd. Orlando, Florida, 32816 | 407.823.2000 © University of Central Florida