Skip to main content Faculty Directory Giving Industry Partners Programs & Departments About Us Home Admissions▼ Undergraduate Admissions Graduate Admissions Undergraduate Spotlights Students▼ Undergraduate Students Graduate Students M.Eng. Students Research & Faculty▼ Faculty Centers and Facilities Strategic Areas of Research Undergraduate Research Diversity▼ DPE Programs & Events Current Students Prospective Students & Outreach Career Development Partnerships About DPE Alumni▼ Alumni Spotlights Bill Nye Solar Noon Clock Alumni Events Contact AAD Cornell Engineering Store Distinguished Alumni Award Enterprise Engineering Colloquium Students Support Volunteer Open the search panel Menu Search Close K. Max Zhang Professor Sibley School of Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering Upson Hall, Room 345 607/254-5402 Kathy Dwyer Marble and Curt Marble Faculty Director at the Cornell Atkinson Center for Sustainability kz33@cornell.edu Back to Directory Biography Dr. Zhang's research interests focus on energy and the environment, driven by societal impact. He studies the effects of airborne particulate matters (PM) and gaseous pollutants on ambient air quality, indoor environmental quality and climate change, using numerical models and experimental techniques. One important goal is to establish a source-to-receptor relationship for harmful air pollutants and indoor contaminants. Dr. Zhang's group has developed CTAG (which stands for Comprehensive Turbulent Aerosol dynamics and Gas chemistry), an environmental turbulent reacting flow model, to simulate the transport and transformation of multiple pollutants in complex environments. Notably, CTAG has been used as a design tool for science-driven roadside green infrastructure for disadvantaged communities and assisted the development of new building downwash-sidewash algorithms for distributed generation. In parallel, his group has also employed data-driven techniques to provide actionable strategies for effective air quality and energy management, taking advantage of increasingly ubiquitous low-cost sensors. Another major area of Dr. Zhang's research is sustainable energy systems. In a low-carbon economy, the production of energy will be more distributed, most energy services will be delivered to customers via the electric grid, and electric power systems, transportation systems and building systems are seamlessly integrated. His current research in this area focuses on 1) aggregating a large number of distributed and controllable energy resources such as heat pumps to provide a wide range of cost-effective systems services, and 2) renewable energy resources and solar farm designs. These technologies will greatly facilitate the transition to a reliable, secure, efficient and clean power system. Dr. Zhang’s extensive experience with Internet of Things (IoT)-based solutions in the energy and environmental systems led him create an initiative to design the first statewide public IoT network in the U.S. He believes that combining broadband with Low Power Wide Area Network (LPWAN) is the most cost-effective way to bridge the digital divide between rural and non-rural America. This initiative has already enabled a wide range of impactful research activities such as microclimate monitoring at solar farms across New York State and hyperlocal weather forecasting to enhance response winter storm response in rural communities. Integration of community engagement into research and education is a unifying theme in Dr. Zhang’s academic and professional activities. He is working closely with the Office of Engagement Initiatives to establish community engagement and real-world learning experiences as the hallmark of the Cornell experience. Dr. Zhang is passionate about communicating science to the public. He is always looking for motivated students at all levels to join his group to pursue impact-driven research. Research Interests Aerosols, Air Quality and Climate Change; Energy Systems Engineering; Electrification of the heating and transportation sectors; Building systems; Internet of Things (IoT) Thermal Systems Sustainable Energy Systems Energy and the Environment Combustion Teaching Interests Dr. Zhang teaches Internet of Things (IoT), Future Energy Systems, Air Quality and Engineering Thermodynamics classes through the Sibley School. Selected Publications Venktesh V. Katkar, Jeffrey A. Sward, Alex Worsley and K. Max Zhang. Strategic land use analysis for solar energy development in New York State. Renewable Energy, 173: 861-875, 2021 Jeffrey A. Sward, Roberta S. Nilson, Venktesh V. Katkar, Richard C. Stedman, David L. Kay, Jennifer E. Ifft and K. Max Zhang. Integrating social considerations in multicriteria decision analysis for utility-scale solar photovoltaic siting, Applied Energy, 288: 116543, 2021 Gulai Shen, Zachary E. Lee, Ali Amadeh and K. Max Zhang. A data-driven electric water heater scheduling and control system. Buildings and Energy, 242: 110924, 2021 Zachary E. Lee and K. Max Zhang. Scalable identification and control of residential heat pumps: A minimal hardware approach. Applied Energy 286, 116544, 2021. Kevin J. Kircher and K. Max Zhang. Heat purchase agreements could lower barriers to heat pump adoption. Applied Energy 286, 116489, 2021. Jiajun Gu, Bo Yang, Michael Brauer and K. Max Zhang. Enhancing the evaluation and interpretability of data-driven air quality models. Atmospheric Environment 246, 118125, 2021. Zhao Ma, Ming-Jia Li, Ya-Ling He and K. Max Zhang. Effects of partly-filled encapsulated phase change material on the performance enhancement of solar thermochemical reactor. Journal of Cleaner Production 279, 123169, 2021. Kevin J. Kircher, Walter Schaefer and K. Max Zhang. A computationally efficient, high-fidelity testbed for building climate control. Journal of Engineering for Sustainable Buildings and Cities, 2(1): 011002, 2021. See all Publications Selected Awards and Honors Engaged Scholar Prize (Cornell University) 2017 People's Choice Sign of Sustainability Award (Sustainable Tompkins) 2016 Scientific and Technological Achievement Award (Environmental Protection Agency) 2015 Education B.S. (Thermal Engineering), Tianjin University, 1998 B.A. (English Language), Tianjin University, 1998 Ph.D. (Mechanical Engineering), University of California, Davis, 2004 Websites Energy and the Environment Research Laboratory In the News News Cornell designs statewide IoT network to close New York's digital divide October 7, 2020 Professor Max Zhang's project to design a statewide internet of things network was featured on Smart Cities Dive. The project aims to close NY's digital divide by broadening internet access and... Read more about Cornell designs statewide IoT network to close New York's digital divide News NSF funding to help erase upstate NY’s digital divide September 10, 2020 The NSF has awarded $1.5 million to Cornell engineers to help bridge New York’s digital divide by designing the nation’s first statewide Internet of Things public infrastructure. Read more about NSF funding to help erase upstate NY’s digital divide News What are the health impacts of the Sahara dust storm? June 29, 2020 What are the health implications of the Saharan dust storm moving across the U.S.? In the New York Post, Professor Max Zhang warns that during the voyage over, particles pick up pollutants, making the... Read more about What are the health impacts of the Sahara dust storm? More News Contact Us About Us News Events Spotlights Staff Directory Intranet Reserve Duffield Hall Main Address: Carpenter Hall 313 Campus Rd. Ithaca, New York 14853 Web Accessibility Assistance Connect with us Facebook Twitter Youtube Instagram LinkedIn Copyright © 2022 Cornell University All rights reserved.