Skip to main content Google Tag Manager Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Prospective Newly Admitted Current Alumni Columbia University School of General Studies Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Admissions Educational Financing Academics Student Services About Undergraduate Admissions How to Apply Eligibility Application Deadlines and Decisions Information Sessions/Campus Visits Transfer Students Postbac Premed Admissions How to Apply Eligibility Application Deadlines and Decisions Information Sessions/Campus Visits Newly Admitted Students International Students Planning Day Placement Exams University-Wide Placement Exams U.S. Military Veterans International Dual Degree Programs Types of Financial Aid Institutional Scholarships Federal and State Grants Loans Private Scholarships and Grants Student Employment Financial Aid for Military Veterans Post-9/11 GI Bill® and the Yellow Ribbon Program Veterans Request for Certification Cost of Attendance Applying for Financial Aid Prospective Students Newly Admitted Students Current Students University Employees Postbac Premed Students Counseling Appointments Enrollment Update Form Student Account Refunds Undergraduate The Core Curriculum Degree Fulfillment Course Listings Majors and Concentrations Research Opportunities Study Abroad Academic Calendar Postbac Premed Program Curriculum & Courses Sample Schedule Course Listings Preparatory Coursework Previously Completed Coursework Glide Year Master’s Programs Academic Calendar Applying to Medical School General Admission Linkage Admission Linkage Specific Program Requirements Reapplicants Letters of Recommendation Academic Policies Registration Enrollment and Courseload Leaves and Withdrawals Academic Integrity and Standards Faculty of Arts and Sciences Undergraduate Announcements Postbac Premed Announcements Academic Advising Academic Resource Center Programs & Services Jumpstart Series Tutoring Peer Advising Campus Services Forms and Guides Graduation Health and Wellness Housing International Students Medical School Fair Planning Your Future Accelerated Master's Programs Fellowships and Research Premedical Clinical and Research Positions Student Life Leadership Development Multicultural & Social Justice Education Programs Student Organizations Upcoming Events Veterans Resources and Initiatives Leadership Mission History Statistics and Facts Notable Alumni University Policies Events Staff Directory Faculty News Press Coverage Media Inquiries School of General Studies You are here: Home News 2022 Grad Profile: Manuel Ramos Profile 2022 Grad Profile: Manuel Ramos May 05, 2022 Manuel Ramos Postbac Premed Where are you from? Savannah, Georgia Tell us about your path to GS! Growing up, music was always a safe place for me. Attending an arts magnet high school in Savannah, GA is where my passion really grew. When I began experiencing some medical complications, I feared I wouldn't be permitted to follow a musical path. Fortunately, thanks to the great medical care I received, in tandem with a strong support system in friends and family, I was able to push past that boundary and chase my first dream. After I finished my graduate school degree at Northwestern in clarinet performance, I needed a job. I began part-time work at Merit School of Music, a nonprofit music school in the West Loop neighborhood of Chicago. Working to provide the opportunity of music gave me a sense of fulfillment I hadn't anticipated, since performing with a high-caliber military ensemble had always been the ultimate endgame after graduate school. I followed in my dad's footsteps and I enlisted into the U.S. Army after auditioning successfully for the West Point Band located in the Hudson Valley of New York State. Ecstatic, I survived basic training and began playing with an incredible group like I'd dreamed of since my high school days. However, reflecting on my path after my first year, I remembered the warm interactions from families I'd met in Chicago. I wanted to not only provide opportunities for those seeking musical fulfillment, but a step farther, I wanted to help others by removing medical boundaries so they could chase any passion, as I had been able to. Researching postbac programs, I happened upon Columbia's Postbac Premed Program, applied, and began one year later. What has been your proudest Columbia moment? I'm extremely proud of the motivation I've been able to maintain throughout the entire program. My goal has always been to be everyone's cheerleader, since we all know how rigorous premed classes are, and I'd like to believe I've achieved it! Who are some people who have contributed the most to your Columbia experience? Some of the most incredible people at GS are the TAs that break down concepts and ensure you understand the material to be successful. Viviana Evans was our Intro to Biology TA for both fall and spring semesters, and her dedication to us was monumental. My two roommates—Danny and Caroline—have been my rock during this entire program, helping me through my ups and downs while balancing work, classes, and the pandemic. What are your plans for after graduation? After taking the MCAT and submitting my AMCAS application, I'm hoping to take a small vacation to Chicago to catch up with some old friends. Following a much needed break, I plan on using some of my new open time to volunteer at some local hospitals and get re-involved in one of my favorite pastimes—weekly trivia! What advice would you give to a Columbia student starting their GS journey? Be present and in the moment. While I stretched out the program to three years so I could work full-time and attend evening classes, it has flown by. It's rigorous and might feel insurmountable at times, but try to enjoy the process and absorb as much information as possible from your professors and peers: they are your greatest resource! Tags Student Profile Postbac Premed Veterans News May 27, 2022 Join Us: Columbia Reunion Weekend in New York City May 26, 2022 Lewisohn Hall Summer Closure | Summer 2022 Temporary Relocation to Uris Hall May 26, 2022 Postbac Premed Program Institutional Scholarship Application May 24, 2022 GS Celebrates the Class of 2022 at Class Day Ceremony May 24, 2022 Academic Resource Center Summer Offerings Admissions Undergraduate Admissions Postbac Premed Admissions Newly Admitted Students U.S. Military Veterans International Dual Degree Programs Educational Financing Types of Financial Aid Financial Aid for Military Veterans Cost of Attendance Applying for Financial Aid Counseling Appointments Enrollment Update Form Student Account Refunds Academics Undergraduate Postbac Premed Program Applying to Medical School Academic Policies Faculty of Arts and Sciences Student Services Undergraduate Announcements Postbac Premed Announcements Academic Advising Academic Resource Center Campus Services Forms and Guides Graduation Health and Wellness Housing International Students Medical School Fair Planning Your Future Premedical Clinical and Research Positions Student Life Veterans Resources and Initiatives About Leadership Mission History Statistics and Facts Notable Alumni University Policies Events Staff Directory Faculty News Press Coverage Media Inquiries Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close