Skip to main content Skip to main navigation School of Education Menu About At a Glance Contact the School Office of the Dean Dean's Biography Dean's Office Directory Dean's Office Directory Centennial Events Featured Profiles Impact Living-Learning Center Mission of the School of Education Outcomes Consumer Information Why Baylor School of Education Learning Spaces Marrs McLean Science Learning Resources Center (LRC) Media Lab Mathematics Education Lab Impact Living-Learning Center Academics Dept. of Curriculum & Instruction Dept. of Educational Leadership Dept. of Educational Psychology Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs MA in Teaching (MAT) MAT Admission Information MAT Degree Requirements / Coursework Certification Information (OPP) MAT Joint Programs Global Programs Undergraduate Study Abroad Graduate Study Abroad Explore our Programs Apply Tk20 Info Tk20 Login for Student/Faculty For Students For Cooperating Teachers For Faculty Outreach & Applied Research Partnerships Professional Development Schools The Co-Teach Model Partner School Districts Greater Waco Area Superintendents Impact Living-Learning Center Centers Baylor Center for School Leadership Center for Gifted Education and Talent Development Baylor Center for Developmental Disabilities Clinic for Assessment, Research and Education (CARE) Baylor Autism Resource Clinic Grants & Initiatives Research Stories Professional Development for Educators Summer Literacy Institute Fall GT Conference Mathematics Teacher Academy Social Studies Academy Mathematics for Teachers of Early Learners (MTEL) Academies & Institutes of BCSL (Baylor Center for School Leadership) Baylor Beginning Teacher Institute Summer Superintendents Institute Christian Higher Education Leadership Seminar Faculty Meet the Faculty Faculty Positions Assistant Professor in Curriculum & Instruction Clinical Assistant Professor of ELementary Education Professor and Department Chair of Educational Leadership Clinical Assistant or Clinical Associate Professor of School Psychology (Dallas campus) Assistant or Associate Professor of School Psychology (Waco campus) Grants & Initiatives Centers Students Prospective Undergraduates Why a BSEd at Baylor? Degree Planners & Certification Areas FAQs Visit the School of Education SOE Glossary Student Spotlights Transfer Students Impact Living-Learning Center Meet Dr. Neil Shanks Meet Your Major Podcast Prospective Graduate Students Advising and Degree Programs Schedule an Advising Appointment Meet the Advisors Degree Planners & Certification Areas Apply to Graduate Advising FAQs Equivalent Courses Tool for Baylor Baylor Undergraduate Catalog Give Feedback Certification Information Complaint Policy Office of Professional Practice (OPP) Certification Information Baylor University Technology Practices in Teaching and Learning Complaint Process Action Research Schedule A Visit Visits: Prospective Undergraduate Students Visits: Prospective Graduate Students Scholarships for Undergraduates Student Profiles Student Services Advising Learning Resources Center (LRC) Student Wellness Services Professional Meeting Support for Undergraduates Kappa Delta Pi Action Research Student Advisory Council Professional Licensure Information MEET the SOE podcast Alumni Alumni Awards Keep in Touch Alumni Profiles Update Your Information Impact Newsletter Online Homecoming Centennial News News and Announcements News Blog: Instant Impact Impact Newsletter Online SOE in the News SOE Social Media Information for Media SOE Coronavirus Updates SOE Coronavirus FAQ Make a Gift Baylor>School of Education>Alumni>Alumni Awards Alumni Awards Baylor School of Education alumni are impacting the world in many fields and in many ways. While most educators serve without recognition, here are just a few who have been honored recently for outstanding service. (We know there are many, many more alumni awards, so please help us share! If you are an SOE alumna or alumnus who has received recognition — or if you know of another alum who has been honored — please let us know by emailing BaylorImpact@baylor.edu. Photos welcome; please send as attachment!) 2022 National Recognition Dr. Jennifer Nivin Williamson, MSEd ’98, PhD ’05 (Educational Psychology) Dr. Daniel Williamson, BBA ’98, PhD ’05 (Educational Psychology) Diplomats in Adlerian Psychology North American Society of Adlerian Psychology Drs. Williamson were both named Diplomats in Adlerian Psychology by the North American Society of Adlerian Psychology. The Diplomat in Adlerian Psychology is the highest professional recognition offered by The North American Society of Adlerian Psychology to its members. The Diplomat in Adlerian Psychology is awarded to those NASAP members who demonstrate the highest level of professional accomplishment in and contribution to Adlerian Psychology through the many fields in which it is applied — counseling and psychotherapy, clinical practice, education, parent education, theory and research, and organizational leadership. Local and Campus Recognition Lisa Longenecker, BSEd ’06 and BS Math Campus Teacher of the Year 7th and 8th grade Engineering and Animation Teacher Cobb Middle School, Frisco ISD Lisa has been teaching for 16 years in Frisco ISD. After 12 years as a sixth and seventh-grade math teacher, she has been teaching engineering and animation for the last four. “When I was deciding what kind of teacher I wanted to be, I never thought I’d do anything different than what I was trained for. Baylor prepared me so well to be a middle school math teacher, and I loved that job for many years. But what I find out the longer I taught is that change is actually good. It pushes you and makes you a better educator. Switching to the STEM/CTE courses I now teach is the biggest gift of my career.” Gabriela Ortiz Haynes, BSEd ’17 Campus Teacher of the Year PreK Teacher, O. C. Taylor Elementary School, Grapevine Colleyville ISD Gabriela is in her third year of teaching pre-K in Grapevine Colleyville and fifth year teaching overall, after two years in Waco ISD. “Everything that I have implemented in my classroom is due to what I learned at Baylor! I am so blessed to have been a part of such a wonderful program,” she said. Dr. Vivian Baker, EdD ’89 Belton ISD Superintendent, 2001 - 2010 Distinguished Baylor Woman of Central Texas Central Texas Baylor Club Temple, Texas 2021 Statewide and Regional Recognition John Bullion, EdD ’20 (K-12 Educational Leadership) Special Education Liaison to TEA Region 12 ESC Dr. John Bullion is co-host of Region 12's podcast, "SPEDTalk with Pam and John," which received a Barbara Jordan Media Award from the Texas Governor's Committee on People with Disabilities. The awards video also features an introduction by Baylor President Dr. Linda Livingstone. Dr. Bullion's award recognition is at minute 52 of this video and includes an excerpt of the winning podcast episode: Barbara Jordan Media Awards As a 2020 EdD graduate of the SOE's Educational Doctorate in K-12 Educational Leadership, Bullion was among the program's first graduates. Seven members of Cohort One graduated in May 2020. Special education teachers may listen to the Region 12 podcast on Apple Podcasts or the Anchor platform. Local and Campus Recognition Amy West, BSEd ’16 Campus Teacher of the Year Fifth-Grade Math Teacher Woodgate Intermediate Midway ISD Amy has been teaching at Woodgate for two years. Prior to that, she taught for three years at Connally Elementary in Connally ISD. Both districts are near Waco. Fun Fact: Amy did her student teaching at Woodgate in the VERY classroom where she now teaches! “The Woodgate and Midway family have played a huge role in shaping the teacher that I am today,” Amy said. “Huge shout out to Sara Teichelmann (my mentor at Woodgate) and Dr. Rachelle Rogers, who has been a mentor and friend through my time at Baylor and still is to this day. It’s always a great day to be a Midway Panther, and Sic ’Em Bears forever!” Amy Feind, BSEd ’16, MA ’17 Campus Teacher of the Year Special Education Teacher Seven Hills Elementary Northwest ISD Amy said, “I love my job immensely because I get to work with the most incredible team, coworkers, and students every single day. This year has been HARD, and I know that every one of the teachers on our staff is worthy of this title. I am so honored!” Amy earned her Baylor MA in the Dept. of Educational Psychology after finishing her bachelor’s with a major in special education. Emily Rice, BSEd ’14, MSEd ’15 Campus Teacher of the Year Fourth-Grade Math, Science & Writing Teacher Blackland Elementary Round Rock ISD “I love my campus because of the supportive team,” Emily said. “Baylor prepared me to take initiative and be a valuable team member from year one,” she said. “I think the GT track also prepared me to handle students with very diverse needs. I’m so grateful for all of my teaching mentors from Baylor and my school district!” Fun fact: Blackland is the school where Emily attended fourth and fifth grade herself! “I even got to teach my fifth-grade teacher’s daughter,” she said. “It has been cool to see things come full circle.” Erica Amos Scalf, BSEd ’16, MSEd ’17 Campus Teacher of the Year Algebra Teacher and Coach Wylie East High School Wylie ISD Erica is in her fourth year teaching at Wylie East, her own high school alma mater. “I love giving back to the community that gave so much to me,” she says in her teacher profile. In addition to teaching mathematics, she also coaches the freshmen volleyball and girls basketball teams and is the EdTech Coach, delivering tech training to teachers on her campus. Hannah Turney Vess, BSEd ’15, MSEd ’17 Campus Teacher of the Year First-Grade Teache Howard Dobbs Elementary Rockwall ISD Hannah gives credit for this honor to her “many colleagues and members of administration who have believed in and encouraged me,” she said. “Howard Dobbs Elementary has been a supportive and kind workplace, and I cannot imagine a better environment to grow in.” Hannah loves science education and said, “It has been a privilege to work on the Science Curriculum Design Team. I am so thankful to be able to utilize my passion for science. My cognate in graduate school was science, and I was able to work with and learn so much from Dr. Nesmith.” 2020 National Recognition Dr. Jay Box, EdD ’94 Lifetime Leadership Award HEI (Higher Education Innovation) President of Kentucky Community & Technical College System (KCTCS) (retired Sept. 30, 2020) The HEI award recognizes an outstanding higher education leader & role model with more than 25 years of exemplary service, exhibiting exceptional character, integrity, honesty, dedication and humility; who has unselfishly given of their time and expertise for the betterment of others, education, and society; who has a history of outstanding accomplishments in practice, scholarship, and service; and who is a leader and contributor to the future success of higher education. READ MORE Kurt Salisbury, MSEd ’03 NAPDS Emerging PDS Leader Award National Association of Professional Development Schools Math Instructional Specialist, Midway Middle School Doctoral student in Baylor SOE’s Department of Curriculum & Instruction The Emerging Leader Award requires nomination and support from NAPDS members, and Salisbury received his from Dr. Lorri Sapp, coordinator of secondary mathematics and instructional coaching at Midway ISD, and Dr. Rachelle Rogers, Baylor clinical associate professor in the School of Education and the University Liaison to Midway Middle school during Salisbury’s tenure there. Salisbury has been involved in NAPDS for several years, serving on the communications committee and giving academic presentations at the annual conference several times. He said he appreciates the professional development opportunities offered by NAPDS. Statewide and Regional Recognition Clint Glaesmann, EdD ’20 TASSP Region 12 Assistant Principal of the Year Assistant Principal, Midway Middle School Midway ISD Carissa Warren, BSEd ’13 District Teacher of the Year Kerrville ISD Second-Grade Teacher, Tally Elementary “I strive to be a role model, a safe place, and an ‘encourager’ to my students. Every morning I greet my students with a hug and they leave my classroom the same way,” Warren said. “I talk them through problems, and hold high expectations for their character. I build deep and lasting relationships with them. This, to me, is the most important thing that I can do as a teacher.” Local and Campus Recognition Josh Dietert, BSEd ’16 Campus Teacher of the Year Midway High School Math Teacher Midway ISD, Waco Christina Barbosa Ochoa, BSEd ’04, MSEd ’ 15 Campus Teacher of the Year Midway Middle School Coach Midway ISD, Waco Angela Rabroker Scarborough, BSEd ’97 Campus Teacher of the Year Hewitt Elementary School Teacher Midway ISD, Waco 2019 Statewide and Regional Recognition Dr. Walter Jackson, EdD ’06 Region VI Superintendent of the Year Superintendent, Brenham ISD “Dr. Jackson is unfailingly focused on providing a world-class education to our students and strengthening the local and global community of supporters for public education,” said Brenham ISD Board President Natalie Lange. “He is a visionary leader who inspires greatness in everyone around him and I cannot imagine anyone who deserves this honor more.” In Texas, twenty educational service centers represent 1,053 school districts. Each service center selects a superintendent to represent their region for the statewide award program. Dr. Walter Jackson will go on to represent ESC Region VI for the Texas Association of School Boards (TASB) Superintendent of the Year award. Read the Brenham ISD news announcement. Amy Meyer Poerschke, BSEd ’10 Houston ISD Elementary Principal of the Year Principal, Durham Elementary School in Houston ISD Poerschke was surprised by the announcement in front of more than 600 of her students in the auditorium. Nominated by the area superintendent for HISD’s northwest area, Poerschke was selected from the other six regional nominations for the honor. The Leader News: Poerschke Named HISD Elementary Principal of the Year Local and Campus Recognition Dr. Mark Montgomery, MSEd ’08, PhD ’14 (Curriculum & Instruction) Assistant Professor, Stephen F. Austin State University Teaching Excellence Award, James I. Perkins College of Education The award is based on "knowledge of subject matter, quality of lectures and assignments, enthusiasm for teaching, interest in and availability to students, commitment to continuous improvement, and contribution to the quality of teaching at SFA by assisting and encouraging other faculty members." At SFA, Montgomery teaches mathematics methodology courses to both elementary and middle-level teacher candidates and supervises pre-service teachers in a field experience course focused on mathematics and science instruction. He is known for his efforts to break the stereotypes associated with mathematics in his elementary education courses. Read about Dr. Montgomery on the SFA WEBSITE. Kat Finta, BSEd ’14 Campus Teacher of the Year Canyon Ridge Elementary PPCD Teacher (Preschool Programs for Children with Disabilities) North East ISD, San Antonio Trinity Award Nominee, North East ISD (The greater San Antonio area’s oldest and most prestigious teaching award, the Trinity Prize was launched in 1982 to honor public school teachers who distinguish their teaching practice through outstanding classroom performance, leadership in the school and school district, contributions to the education profession, and stellar community service.) Finta said, “I am so blessed to have been nominated by my colleagues to receive the Teacher of the Year for my Campus and for the Trinity Award Nomination. Baylor SOE made such an impact on my life and taught me lifelong lessons in the Special Education world and in life itself. I am beyond grateful for my professors and mentor teachers who encouraged and showed me what a great teacher should be like. My goal is to continue to positively impact my students and raise acceptance for the Special Needs community.” Audrey Hamlin Kelley, BSEd ’18 (all-level special education) Campus Teacher of the Year for 2018-19 (during her first year of teaching!) Robinson Intermediate School Robinson ISD, Waco As a Functional Academics teacher, Audrey works with fourth through eighth graders with moderate to severe disabilities. She teaches each academic subject, as well as functional skills such as cooking and communication, including American Sign Language and Braille. Jenna Zerebny Simpson, BSED ’14 Campus Teacher of the Year Spring Valley Elementary PDS Fourth Grade Teacher Midway ISD, Waco, Texas Mary Allison Fertsch O’Leary, BSEd ’13 Campus Teacher of the Year 2018-19 Powell Elementary Second-Grade Teacher Conroe ISD Jessica Lewis, BSEd ’15 Campus Teacher of the Year Iduma Elementary School, Second Grade Teacher Killeen ISD Earlier this year, Lewis was also named the District’s Spotlight Teacher of the Month. Read about Lewis and her classroom HERE. Dr. Susan Kincannon, EdD ’10 Belton ISD Superintendent, 2011 - 2019 Distinguished Baylor Woman of Central Texas Central Texas Baylor Club Temple, Texas 2018 National Recognition Dr. Neil Shanks, BSEd ’09, MSEd ’14 2018 Larry Metcalf Exemplary Dissertation Award, National Council for the Social Studies Clinical Assistant Professor in Curriculum & Instruction, Baylor School of Education, starting in fall of 2019 Instant Impact Blog Post: SOE Grad Wins Dissertation Award Dr. Yuko Prefume, BA ’04, MSEd ’06, EdD ’15 Senior Lecturer of Japanese, Baylor University, Dept. of Modern Languages & Culture "The American Association of Teachers of Japanese honored Yuko Prefume, Ed.D., senior lecturer in Japanese in Baylor University’s College of Arts & Sciences, with the association’s annual Teacher Award presented at the AATJ Fall National Conference Nov. 16-18, 2018, in New Orleans. The AATJ Teacher Awards recognize outstanding teachers who demonstrate excellence in teaching, advocacy and leadership in Japanese education both locally and regionally." Baylor Media Post: Senior Lecturer in Japanese Receives National Association Teaching Award Amy Thomas Soupiset, BSEd ’93 Named a "Teacher Advisor" by Scholastic Book Clubs for 2018-19 One of 16 teachers nationwide to serve as advisors at Scholastic Headquarters to improve Scholastic Book Clubs Alamo Heights Junior School, Alamo Heights ISD, San Antonio Sixth Grade Reading, all levels Faye Langley Cowden Chair for Elementary Education, Alamo Heights ISD Statewide and Regional Recognition Dr. Mary Landon Darden, MSEd ’91 (HPER), EdD ’06 (Educational Administration) President, Higher Education Innovation LLC Distinguished Alumni Award 2018 University of Texas Permian Basin UTPB News Story Katherine Chaney, BSEd ’15 Mineola Elementary School, Mineola ISD Third Grade ELAR and Social Studies Named to: "The List of East Texas” for “Top New Teachers" “The List’’ is a series presented by The University of Texas at Tyler to recognize exceptional individuals and organizations devoted to improving our communities and driving this region forward. Honorees are selected by the List of East Texas Editorial Advising Board based on nominations from the community. These K-12 teachers, within the first five years of their careers, are making outstanding contributions to student success in classrooms across East Texas. "The List" is published in Tyler Today magazine. Dr. Kenneth Boarder, EdD ’04 (Educational Administration) Region 17 Superintendent of the Year - 2018 State Finalist (one of five finalists) Texas Association of School Administrators (TASA) Superintendent, Shallowater ISD, Shallowater, Texas (Lubbock County) Dr. George Kazanas, BBA ’90, MSEd ’94 Region 12 Superintendent of the Year - 2018 Texas Association of School Administrators (TASA) Superintendent, Midway ISD, Waco, Texas Adjunct Professor, Baylor EdD in K-12 Educational Leadership Eric Wilson, MSEd ’89 (Sport Management) Region 9 (Texas) Outstanding Principal of the Year TASSP (Texas Association of Secondary School Principals) Principal of Bryson School, Jacksboro, Texas Local and Campus Recognition Rachel Vaughn, BSEd ’17 Rookie of the Year West University Elementary School Houston ISD, Houston "Rachel has had an excellent first year at our school and is one of the best rookie teachers I have worked with in my 28 years of school administration. It is a great pleasure to watch her teach and see someone who is truly committed to the kids. I have told other HISD administrators that if I had a school full of teachers like Rachel, I would have the easiest job in HISD. She is a dedicated and gifted young lady. —John Threet, Principal, West University Elementary Trevor Taylor, BSEd ’17 Novice Teacher of the Year Wagner High School Judson ISD, San Antonio Jordan Barlow Martella, BSEd ’15, MSEd ’16 Teacher of the Year Gatesville Intermediate School Gatesville ISD, Gatesville, Texas Katie Bohannon Phillips, BSEd ’08 Campus Teacher of the Year Beverly Elementary Plano ISD, Plano, Texas Andrea Ruiz, BSEd ’09 Midway ISD District Elementary Teacher of the Year Campus Teacher of the Year Hewitt Elementary Midway ISD, Waco, Texas Second Grade Teacher and Mentor Teacher to Baylor Interns 2017 Statewide and Regional Recognition Garrett Gray, BSEd ’15 Seventh-grade Science Teacher, Midway Middle School, Midway ISD, Waco, Texas TEACH (Texas Educators Achieving Classroom Honors) Award from Texas Association for Supervision and Curriculum Development “The Texas Educators Achieving Classroom Honors award recognizes an innovative educator for their efforts in the classroom that impact the students they teach and inspire other educational professionals.” TEACH Award received while at Robinson High School, Waco, Texas Read more in the Waco Tribune-Herald story Lindsay Shockley, EdS ’09 Outstanding School Psychologist, Specialist Level Texas Association of School Psychologists (TASP) School Psychologist at Lorena ISD Lorena, Texas Dr. George Kazanas, BBA ’90, MSEd ’94 State Board of Education Steering Committee for Long Range Plan Superintendent, Midway ISD, Waco, Texas Adjunct Professor, Baylor EdD in K-12 Educational Leadership Rachel Webbon, BSEd ’16 Waco ISD First Year Teacher of the Year, Virginia DuPuy Award Cedar Ridge Elementary, First Grade Teacher Waco ISD “Ms. Webbon has an indescribable way with students. She connects with students in a manner that is usually exhibited by veteran teachers.” —Helen Smith, principal Local and Campus Recognition Kayse Katzmann Williams, BSEd ’10 District Elementary Teacher of the Year Rockwall ISD Special Education Resource Teacher, Stevenson Elementary "Kayse has the ability to make lasting, life-long relationships with each of her students, taking the time to get to know them,” said Stevenson Elementary Principal Mike Pitcher. “The relational bonds she forms are unique. They believe in themselves because they know that Kayse believes in them.” Sarah Baranowski, BSEd ’03 Campus Teacher of the Year Midway High School PDS Midway ISD, Waco, Texas Kim Willis Bullajian, BSEd ’95 Campus Teacher of the Year Woodway Elementary Midway ISD, Waco, Texas Paige Cox Carrasquillo, BSEd ’09, MSEd ’10 Belton Rotary Educator of the Quarter (November) Miller Heights Elementary Belton ISD, Belton, Texas Erin Casey, MSEd ’17 Campus “Beginning Teacher of the Year Award” Jasper High School Plano ISD, Plano, Texas World Geography and AP Human Geography teacher Dr. Tamara Rubin Hodges, MSEd ’89, EdD ’94 Outstanding Faculty Award from Baylor University for teaching Baylor School of Education, Senior Lecturer in Educational Psychology Barry Horst, BSEd ’80 Campus Teacher of the Year Bell’s Hill Elementary Waco ISD Julibeth Moore, BA ’08, MSEd ’10 Campus Teacher of the Year Midway High School PDS Midway ISD, Waco, Texas Staci Arnold Morgan, BSEd ’02 Campus Teacher of the Year South Bosque Elementary Midway ISD, Waco, Texas Amanda Packard, BSEd ’15 Campus Teacher of the Year Midway Middle School PDS Midway ISD, Waco, Texas Brittany Hill Sanders, BSEd ’10 Campus Teacher of the Year West Avenue Elementary, Waco ISD Katie Kamperman Talbert, BSEd ’10, MSEd ’11 Campus Teacher of the Year Woodgate Intermediate, Midway ISD 2016 National Recognition Dr. Erin Dixon, MSEd ’08, PhD ’15 Outstanding Dissertation Award, SSMA (School Science and Mathematics Association) Statewide and Regional Recognition Dr. Leanne Looney Howell, BSEd ’89, MSEd ’92 Exemplary Faculty Practice Award from Consortium of State Organizations for Texas Teacher Education (CSOTTE) Baylor School of Education, Clinical Assistant Professor, Curriculum & Instruction Monica Maynor Lemke, BSEd ’12 Region 11 Elementary Teacher of the Year Roanoke Elementary, Northwest ISD Becky Odajima, Doctoral Candidate Texas Assistant Principal of the Year, Texas Association of Secondary School Principals Midway High School PDS, Midway ISD Local and Campus Recognition Amy Kaska Beseda, BSEd ’01 Campus Teacher of the Year River Valley Intermediate, Midway ISD Cathy Moore Henson, BA ’73 Campus Teacher of the Year Parkdale Elementary, Waco ISD Micah Kroll, BSEd ’88 Campus Teacher of the Year Crestview Elementary, Waco ISD Blake Schrader, BSEd ’03 Campus Teacher of the Year G. L. Wiley Opportunity Center, Waco ISD 2015 National and International Recognition Dr. Dittika Gupta, PhD ’14 Outstanding Dissertation Award, SSMA (School Science and Mathematics Association) Assistant Professor of Education, Midwestern University, Wichita Falls Jennifer Nivin Williamson, MSEd ’98, PhD ’05 ACES Counseling Vision and Innovation Award (Association for Counselor Education and Supervision) Associate Professor, Lindsey Wilson College, Columbia, Kentucky Statewide and Regional Recognition Whitney Lasater Crews, BSEd ’96 Texas Elementary Teacher of the Year, Texas Association of School Administrators (TASA) E. J. Moss Intermediate School, Lindale ISD Diane Gough, BSEd ’81 Texas National Distinguished Principal of the Year TEPSA (Texas Elementary Principals and Supervisors Association) Principal, Hewitt Elementary School, Midway ISD Aaron Peña, BSEd ’97 Texas Top Elementary Principal (H-E-B) Principal, Woodway Elementary School, Midway ISD Dr. Michael McFarland, BBA ’93, EdD ’05 Texas Superintendent of the Year, Texas Association of School Administrators (TASA) Superintendent, Lancaster ISD Laura Tindall Zapata, BSEd ’00 Region VI Elementary Teacher of the Year A. R. Turner Elementary, Willis ISD Liz Cox Hagins, BSEd ’00 Midway ISD District Secondary Teacher of the Year Midway Middle School PDS, Midway ISD Local and Campus Recognition Casi Alley, BSEd ’98 Campus Teacher of the Year J. H. Hines Elementary, Waco ISD Carole Ross Boyle, BSEd ’92 Campus Teacher of the Year River Valley Intermediate, Midway ISD John Choins, BMEd ’92, MSEd ’98 Campus Teacher of the Year Midway Middle PDS, Midway ISD Sami Cox, BSEd ’06 Campus Teacher of the Year Spring Valley Elementary PDS, Midway ISD Kim Dunn Landon, BSEd ’86 Campus Teacher of the Year Midway High School PDS, Midway ISD Rachel Lieber, BSEd ’12 Campus Teacher of the Year Hillcrest Elementary PDS, Waco ISD Crystal Williams Robinson, BBA ’02, MSEd ’04 Campus Teacher of the Year Castleman Creek Elementary, Midway ISD Corinne Stephenson, BSEd ’12 Campus Teacher of the Year Woodway Elementary, Midway ISD Lisa Lewis Ward, BSEd ’91 Campus Teacher of the Year South Waco Elementary, Waco ISD 2014 National and International Recognition Dr. Marty Crawford, BSEd ’96 Finalist, LifeChanger of the Year Award, National Life Group Superintendent, West ISD (currently Tyler ISD) Dr. Susan Johnsen, BA ’64 Outstanding Leadership Award from Council for Exceptional Children (CEC) Baylor School of Education, Professor of Educational Psychology Dr. Jessica Meehan, MSEd ’08, EdD ’13 John Laska Distinguished Dissertation Award in Teaching from American Association for Teaching and Curriculum (AATC) Statewide and Regional Recognition Dr. Susan Johnsen, BA ’64 Texas State Advocate for the Gifted, Texas Association for the Gifted & Talented (TAGT) Baylor School of Education, Professor of Educational Psychology Dr. Michael McFarland, BBA ’93, EdD ’05 Region 10 Superintendent of the Year, State Finalist, Texas Association of School Boards (TASB) Superintendent, Lancaster ISD Local and Campus Recognition Alera Budd, BSEd ’13 Campus Teacher of the Year Daugherty Elementary, Garland ISD Jennifer Garza, BSEd ’92 Campus Teacher of the Year Bell’s Hill PDS, Waco ISD Susan Finley Mathis, BSEd ’92 Campus Teacher of the Year Spring Valley Elementary PDS, Midway ISD Stephen Petree, BSEd ’08 Campus Teacher of the Year Waco High School, Waco ISD Amy Taylor, BSEd ’94 Campus Teacher of the Year River Valley Intermediate, Midway ISD Wendi Washington Singletary, BSEd ’94 Campus Teacher of the Year Hillcrest PDS, Waco ISD Jennifer Haddad Zane, BSEd ’00 Campus Teacher of the Year Cedar Ridge Elementary, Waco ISD Alumni Alumni Awards Keep in Touch Alumni Profiles Update Your Information Impact Newsletter Online Homecoming Centennial Apply Now Make a Gift Contact Us Visit Campus Show More General Information Colleges, Schools, Libraries & Research Admissions Administration Gateways For... About Baylor Anonymous Reporting Athletics Ask Baylor Bookstore Calendar Campus Map Directory Give Light Give to Baylor Illuminate Mental Health Resources News Pro Futuris Report It Search Social Media Title IX Baylor Libraries College of Arts & Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work George W. Truett Theological Seminary Graduate School Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Louise Herrington School of Nursing Research at Baylor University Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Engineering & Computer Science School of Music More Academics Undergraduate Admissions goBAYLOR Graduate Admissions Baylor Law School Admissions Social Work Graduate Programs George W. Truett Theological Seminary Admissions Online Graduate Professional Education Virtual Tour Visit Campus Annual Fire Safety and Security Notice Athletics Human Resources Marketing and Communications Office of General Counsel Office of the President Office of the Provost Operations, Finance & Administration Senior Administration Student Life University Advancement Baylor Alumni Faculty & Staff Online Graduate Professional Education Parents Prospective Faculty & Staff Prospective Students Students School of Education Facebook Twitter Instagram Copyright © Baylor® University. All rights reserved. Legal Disclosures. Baylor University • Waco, Texas 76798 • 1-800-229-5678 About At a Glance Contact the School Office of the Dean Dean's Biography Dean's Office Directory Dean's Office Directory Centennial Events Featured Profiles Impact Living-Learning Center Mission of the School of Education Outcomes Consumer Information Why Baylor School of Education Learning Spaces Marrs McLean Science Learning Resources Center (LRC) Location and Hours Check-Out Procedures Media Lab Mathematics Education Lab Impact Living-Learning Center Academics Dept. of Curriculum & Instruction Dept. of Educational Leadership Dept. of Educational Psychology Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs MA in Teaching (MAT) MAT Admission Information MAT Degree Requirements / Coursework Certification Information (OPP) MAT Joint Programs Global Programs Undergraduate Study Abroad Carpenter Embedded Global Classroom Baylor Education in Costa Rica Graduate Study Abroad Explore our Programs Apply Tk20 Info Tk20 Login for Student/Faculty For Students For Cooperating Teachers For Faculty Outreach & Applied Research Partnerships Professional Development Schools What is a PDS? The Co-Teach Model Partner School Districts Greater Waco Area Superintendents Impact Living-Learning Center Centers Baylor Center for School Leadership Center for Gifted Education and Talent Development University for Young People (UYP) UYP 2020 Fall GT Conference Super Saturdays Baylor Center for Developmental Disabilities Clinic for Assessment, Research and Education (CARE) Contact CARE Donate to CARE CARE Mission and Goals CARE Community Programs Skill Building Program Problem Behavior Support Clinic Feeding Support Program Baylor Autism Resource Clinic Grants & Initiatives Research Stories Professional Development for Educators Summer Literacy Institute Fall GT Conference Mathematics Teacher Academy 2019 MTA Facebook Album 2018 MTA Facebook Album 2017 MTA Facebook Album Social Studies Academy 2019 Social Studies Summer Summit Mathematics for Teachers of Early Learners (MTEL) Map Academies & Institutes of BCSL (Baylor Center for School Leadership) Baylor Beginning Teacher Institute Summer Superintendents Institute Christian Higher Education Leadership Seminar Faculty Meet the Faculty Faculty Positions Assistant Professor in Curriculum & Instruction Clinical Assistant Professor of ELementary Education Professor and Department Chair of Educational Leadership Clinical Assistant or Clinical Associate Professor of School Psychology (Dallas campus) Assistant or Associate Professor of School Psychology (Waco campus) Grants & Initiatives Centers Students Prospective Undergraduates Why a BSEd at Baylor? Degree Planners & Certification Areas FAQs Visit the School of Education SOE Glossary Student Spotlights Transfer Students Impact Living-Learning Center Meet Dr. Neil Shanks Meet Your Major Podcast Prospective Graduate Students Advising and Degree Programs Schedule an Advising Appointment Meet the Advisors Degree Planners & Certification Areas Degree Planners 2019 - beyond Degree Planners - 2018 Apply to Graduate Advising FAQs Equivalent Courses Tool for Baylor Baylor Undergraduate Catalog Give Feedback Certification Information Complaint Policy Office of Professional Practice (OPP) Certification Information Testing for Certification (all programs) Criminal History Evaluations Texas Requirements & Process for Certification Baylor Process for Admittance to Teacher Education Program (undergraduate & MAT) Baylor Process for Admittance to Superintendent Certification Program (EdD in K-12) Baylor Process for Admittance to Principal Certification Program (MA in School Leadership) Benefits and Waivers for Military Service Members Baylor University Technology Practices in Teaching and Learning Complaint Process Action Research 2022 Action Research Symposium 2021 Action Research Program 2019 Action Research Monograph Schedule A Visit Visits: Prospective Undergraduate Students Visits: Prospective Graduate Students Scholarships for Undergraduates Student Profiles Student Services Advising Learning Resources Center (LRC) Student Wellness Services Professional Meeting Support for Undergraduates Kappa Delta Pi Action Research Student Advisory Council Professional Licensure Information MEET the SOE podcast Alumni Alumni Awards Keep in Touch Alumni Profiles Update Your Information Impact Newsletter Online Homecoming Centennial News News and Announcements News Blog: Instant Impact Impact Newsletter Online SOE in the News SOE Social Media Information for Media SOE Coronavirus Updates SOE Coronavirus FAQ Make a Gift