Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. Office of Nationally Competitive Awards NCA right arrow down arrow About NCA right arrow down arrow Programs and Events Understanding Fellowships Frequently Asked Questions Contact Us News Awards right arrow down arrow Core Awards right arrow down arrow Fulbright U.S. Student Program Gaither Junior Fellows Program right arrow down arrow Gaither Info Session Goldwater Scholarship right arrow down arrow Goldwater Info Session Marshall Scholarship right arrow down arrow UK Awards Info Sessions Mitchell Scholarship right arrow down arrow UK Awards Info Sessions Rhodes Scholarship right arrow down arrow UK Awards Info Sessions Truman Scholarship right arrow down arrow Truman Info Session Udall Scholarship right arrow down arrow Udall Info Session Priority Awards right arrow down arrow Boren Awards right arrow down arrow Boren Info Session Critical Language Scholarship right arrow down arrow CLS Info Session Fulbright UK Summer Institutes right arrow down arrow Fulbright UKSI Session Gates Cambridge Scholarship right arrow down arrow UK Awards Info Sessions Knight-Hennessy Scholarship National Science Foundation Graduate Research Fellowship Paul & Daisy Soros Fellowships for New Americans Schwarzman Scholarship right arrow down arrow Schwarzman Scholarship Info Session Other Awards right arrow down arrow International Studies International Students Underrepresented and Minority Students Specific Interests or Disciplines Applying right arrow down arrow Deciding to Apply Preparing Your Application right arrow down arrow Recommendation Letters Essay Strategies Developing as a Candidate The Leadership Essay Student Spotlight right arrow down arrow 2021–22 Award Winners 2020–21 Award Winners 2019–20 Award Winners 2018–19 Award Winners NCA Ambassadors Fulbright@UC right arrow down arrow Info Session Recordings UC Fulbright Winners Fulbright Boot Camp Aspire Scholars For Faculty Home » Campus Life » Office of Nationally Competitive Awards » Student Spotlight » 2021–22 Award Winners Set Navigation title in component 2021–22 Award Winners 2020–21 Award Winners 2019–20 Award Winners 2018–19 Award Winners 2021–22 Award Winners Truman Scholarship Adam Elzarka Adam Elzarka is a third-year student double majoring in Medical Sciences and Liberal Arts with concentrations in Arabic, Philosophy, and Psychology. He is a recipient of the Truman Scholarship. Profile Barry Goldwater Scholarship Nicholas Shaw Nicholas Shaw is a third-year Medical Sciences student at the College of Medicine, pursuing his Bachelor of Science. Nicholas is a recipient of the Barry Goldwater Scholarship. Profile Boren Fellowship Will Thompson Will Thompson is a Beta Gamma Sigma MS Business Analytics student with a BA in Mathematics and minor in Middle East Studies. He is a recipient of the Boren Fellowship in Jordan. Profile Critical Language Scholarship Kylie Boyer Kylie Boyer is pursuing a Master of Arts at the University of Cincinnati in Women, Gender, and Sexuality Studies with certificates in Film and Media Studies and Asian Studies. She is a recipient of the Critical Language Scholarship Profile Adam Elzarka Adam Elzarka is a third-year student double majoring in Medical Sciences and Liberal Arts with concentrations in Arabic, Philosophy, and Psychology. He is a a recipient of the Critical Language Scholarship Profile Lily Stiefel Lily Stiefel is a third-year student pursuing a BA in Asian Studies with minors in English and Marketing, and a certificate in Japanese Language and Culture. She is a a recipient of the Critical Language Scholarship. Profile Andrew Van Dyke Andrew Van Dyke is a Ph.D. Candidate in Musicology at the University of Cincinnati’s College-Conservatory of Music (CCM). He is a recipient of the Critical Language Scholarship in Russia (declined). Profile Fulbright U.S. Student Program Stephanie Cuyubamba Kong Stephanie Cuyubamba Kong is a 2021 DAAP graduate with a Bachelor of Fine Arts and certificate in Critical Visions. She is a recipient of the Fulbright Study/Research: Arts grant in Peru. Profile Regina Kazanjian Regina is a 2015 alumni of DAAP who runs her footwear business, leads Indigo Hippo as board president, teaches as an adjunct at DAAP, and manages projects for a creative agency. She is a recipient of the Fulbright Aalto University Graduate Award. Profile Lynn Pickering Lynn Pickering is a UC PhD candidate in Aerospace Engineering, after graduating in 2020 with a Bachelor of Science in Aerospace Engineering. She is a recipient of the Fulbright Ghent University Award in Belgium. Profile Isabel Slonneger Isabel Slonneger (she/her) will be graduating this Spring with a Bachelor's in International Affairs and Environmental Studies. She is a recipient of the Fulbright English Teaching Assistantship in Spain. Profile 2021–22 Award Finalists Thomas Croke Thomas M. Croke V is a Ph.D. candidate in Musicology at CCM. His research focuses on the legacy of the illness and death of Polish composer Fryderyk Chopin. He is a semi-finalist for the Fulbright Study/Research: Arts grant in Poland. Profile Jack Fogle Jack Fogle is a fourth year student graduating this semester with a dual degree in Biology and Neuroscience, minors in Psychology and Chemistry. Jack is a Darwin T Turner Scholar and a semi-finalist for the Fulbright Study/Research grant in Slovenia. Profile Maya Gulani Maya Gulani is pursuing a BA in Political Science, International Affairs, and German Studies as well as certificates in Religious Studies and War, Peace, and Security. She is a semi-finalist for the Fulbright ETA program in Germany. Profile Joyner Horn Joyner Horn received her Master of Music in Voice from CCM in 2020. She aims to explore the ways theatre can be used as a vehicle for social change. She is an alternate for the Fublright John Wood LAMDA Award in Classical Acting. Profile Daniel Posmik Daniel Posmik is pursuing a Bachelor of Business Administration in Business Economics and a Bachelor of Science in Business Analytics with a minor in Mathematics. He is a finalist for the Schwarzman Scholarship. Profile Mariam Soliman Mariam Soliman graduated from UC in 2021 with a Bachelor of Science in Middle Childhood Education who wants to be a voice and advocate for young people affected by educational inequity. She is an alternate for the Fulbright ETA program in Turkey. Profile Office of Nationally Competitive Awards 707A Swift Hall 513-556-1003 nca@uc.edu UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati Office of Nationally Competitive Awards 707A Swift Hall 513-556-1003 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top