By continuing to use this site, you agree to the use of cookies in accordance with our privacy policy. Dismiss Stay Safe The official source of public health information for Syracuse University. Skip to Content Open menu About Admissions Academics Life Athletics More Search the University Open search Popular searches Close menu Home About Toggle dropdown Leadership Vision & Mission Consumer Information Facts & Figures Plan Your Visit Campus Map History News Partnerships Work at Syracuse Social Media Bookstore Brand Help & Contacts Admissions Toggle dropdown Undergraduate Graduate Online Part-Time Cost & Aid Request Information Visit & Tour Apply Academics Toggle dropdown Schools & Colleges Undergraduate Majors & Minors Graduate Degrees Online Programs Syracuse University Global Study Abroad Opportunities & Support Calendars Departments Research Centers & Institutes Libraries, Collections & Galleries Academic Administration Life Toggle dropdown Accessibility & Diversity Campus Highlights Events Calendar Services & Support Meals & Dining Housing Groups & Activities Recreation & Facilities For Students For Veterans & Military For Faculty & Staff For Parents & Families A-Z Index Sitemap Login Athletics Men’s Sports Toggle dropdown Basketball Cross Country Football Lacrosse Rowing Soccer Track and Field Women’s Sports Toggle dropdown Basketball Cross Country Field Hockey Ice Hockey Lacrosse Rowing Soccer Softball Tennis Track and Field Volleyball Athletics Dept. Toggle dropdown Facilities Staff Directory Academic Honors Community Service Spirit Program Varsity Club Sports Medicine Championships Fan Zone Toggle dropdown Dome Schedule Seating Information Orange All Access Otto’s Kids Club Game Photos Promotions Orange Club Schedules News Alumni About Toggle dropdown Notable Alumni Alumni Association Awards News Events and Clubs Toggle dropdown Orange Central Northeast Midwest South West World/Affinity Regions Toggle dropdown Atlanta Boston Chicago Los Angeles Middle East New York San Francisco Washington, DC Services Toggle dropdown Career Network Generation Orange Directory Profile Class Notes Giving Contact Contact Visit Apply Coronavirus Updates Forever Orange Home Life Recreation Facilities More from this Section Programs Recreation and Exercise Facilities Whether you enjoy a pick-up game, fitness classes or solo work-outs, our variety of gymnasiums, fitness centers and recreation areas on campus will help you stay active and healthy. Main Campus Learn more on the Fitness Centers webpage. Barnes Center at The Arch 315.443.8000 The Barnes Center at The Arch is located just off the Quad on North Campus behind the stadium. This state-of-the-art health, wellness and recreation complex serves as the hub of student wellness on campus. Features: fitness centers, climbing wall, esports, multi-activity court, weight room, basketball courts, dance studios, table-tennis courts, two pools, showers and changing facilities, locker rooms South Campus Skytop Recreation Area 315.443.4967 Features: 20 tennis courts, two basketball courts, one field and two sand volleyball courts Tennity Ice Skating Pavilion 315.443.4254 Features: pro shop, skate rental shop, skate sharpener The ice is used by the men’s and women’s ice hockey and figure skating clubs and intramural hockey and broomball leagues, special group reservations and rentals, and the Women's Division One Ice Hockey Team. Additional information may be found on the Ice Sports webpage. Outdoor Education Center and Challenge Course 315.443.9935 Features: teambuilding and group problem solving programs, a low-and high-element outdoor challenge course Challenge your group to engage in a unique learning environment, build relationships and establish trust and camaraderie in a fun, different way. Help take your group to the next level (literally and figuratively) as you ascend the outdoor challenge course. Additional information can be found on the Barnes Center website. Featured Stories Spreading Smiles, Easing Stress and Promoting Wellness With a new, dedicated space in the Barnes Center at The Arch, the University’s pet therapy program brings students and dogs together for relaxing interactions. Transforming Health in Higher Education The Barnes Center at The Arch positions Syracuse University as a leader in integrated health and wellness. Services that nurture mind, body and spirit are united under one roof to care for and empower the whole student. A Holistic Approach to Health and Wellness on Campus The Barnes Center at The Arch enhances student experience and outcomes with a centralized system of care for the body, mind and spirit. Related Pages Facility Entry Policy You must present a valid SU, ESF, or University College I.D. Card to enter each indoor recreation facility. Barnes Center at The Arch Facilities and Hours Learn more today! Outdoor Education Center and Challenge Course The Syracuse University Challenge Course offers a variety of team building programs. Popular Toggle dropdown Academic Calendar Campus Map Careers Libraries Majors and Minors Visit and Tour A-Z Toggle dropdown Academic Departments Schools and Colleges Sitemap Search Contact Toggle dropdown Admissions Financial Aid Emergency Contacts Human Resources Make a Gift Login Toggle dropdown MySlice Blackboard SUMail Syracuse University 900 South Crouse Ave. Syracuse, NY 13244 Phone: +1.315.443.1870 Follow S.U. on Instagram Like S.U. on Facebook Follow S.U. on Twitter Follow S.U. on LinkedIn Follow S.U. on Tiktok Subscribe to S.U. on YouTube © Syracuse University. Knowledge crowns those who seek her. Accessibility Accreditation Emergencies Privacy