Skip to main content SMU Explore SMU Academics Undergraduate Admission Student Affairs About News Athletics Events Calendar Bush Center Prospective Students Current Students Alumni Faculty & Staff Apply to SMUGIVE NOW Meadows School of the Arts Areas of Study Admissions About Menu Search Journalism The Division of Journalism offers concentrations in broadcast, digital and print. Led by The Belo Foundation Distinguished Chair in Journalism Tony Pederson, the division prepares students to enter medium- to large-size media markets through classroom and hands-on learning in the newsroom, broadcast studio and control room, podcast recording booth and more. Strong internships are available in Dallas, a top-five media market, and in multiple cities across the U.S. Journalism Mission Statement Undergraduate Studies Classes (See Catalog) Facilities Faculty Division Projects Advisory Board Internships Journalism in Dallas FAQ Undergraduate Majors/Minors B.A. in Journalism William J. O'Neil Program in Business Journalism B.A. in Fashion Media Minor in Journalism Meet the Faculty Jake Batsell Associate Professor and William J. O’Neil Chair in Business Journalism Jenny B. Davis Professor of Practice Edward Egros Adjunct Professor Robert Emery Senior Media Equipment Technician Valerie Roberts Evans Professor of Practice Lisa Goodson Office Coordinator Pam Harris Hackett Broadcast Executive-in-Residence Robert Hart Adjunct Lecturer Myles Ethan Lascity Assistant Professor, Director of Fashion Media Linda Leavell Adjunct Lecturer William McKenzie Adjunct Lecturer Annette Nevins Adjunct Lecturer Tony Pederson Professor and The Belo Foundation Endowed Distinguished Chair in Journalism Jared Schroeder Associate Professor Lauren Smart Professor of Practice; Faculty Adviser to smudailycampus.com Jayne Suhler Professor of Practice Jean-Jacques Taylor Adjunct Lecturer Karen Thomas Professor of Practice Pederson Broadcast Studio The professional control room and studio are supplied with all the equipment students need to produce TV news. Students learn to operate professional cameras, a Grass Valley video switcher, teleprompter, CG, Still Store and an on-air server. Every weekday, students produce, write and crew a news show covering SMU news, as well as local and national news. Featured Alumni Garrett Haake ’07 NBC News Correspondent Advice from NBC correspondent and SMU Meadows alumnus Garrett Haake for young journalists about to start their careers. Read more Featured Courses Ethics of Convergent Media Tony Pederson Explores the ethical issues (e.g., free speech, privacy, and government regulation and censorship) that provide the foundation for all communication fields and have become more complex as media and industries have converged. Sports, News Media and Social Media Analytics Robert Egros Using a brief introduction to statistical theory and a history of sports statistics, students build on existing metrics to learn how to better explain critical trends within major sports. Race, Class and Gender in Media Karen Thomas Examines the impact and representation of race, class and gender in the mass media from historical and critical perspectives. Student Work Journalism Katy Blakey, B.A. Journalism Journalism Investigative reporter for NBC affiliate KSL-TV in Salt Lake City Daniella Rivera, B.A. Journalism ’13 Journalism Dallas Morning News Fellow, Feature on Texas Health Resources Victoria Vivian Valdez, B.A. Journalism ’20 f1WGD3ksImc Journalism Maha Razi, B.A Journalism ’21 The Daily Update Journalism Performance Departments Take on New Challenges as Classes Transition Online Sriya Reddy, B.A. Journalism ’22 Journalism Who is Fueling the Sex Trafficking Demand in Dallas? The Man Next Door Jessica Taylor, B.A. Journalism ’20 Why study journalism in Dallas? Opportunities for Meadows students to interact with journalism professionals in this top-five media market are plentiful. Every semester, four top students are offered paid internships with The Dallas Morning News; additional internships are available with companies such as the Dallas Cowboys, Burson-Marsteller, and other broadcast, print, digital and government organizations. Learn More Upcoming Journalism Events Meadows School of the Arts Meadows School of the Arts 6101 Bishop Dallas, Texas 75205 214-768-2000 Mailing Address: P.O. Box 750356 Dallas, Texas 75275-0356 Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkedIn Apply Now Visit Us Back to top © Southern Methodist University, PO Box 750100, Dallas, TX 75275 Areas of Study Advertising Art Art History Arts Management & Arts Entrepreneurship CCPA Creative Computation Dance Film & Media Arts Journalism Music Theatre Admissions Undergraduate Admissions Graduate Admissions Scholarships And Financial Aid Internships & Collaborations Visit Meadows Contact Meadows Admission Dual Admission About A Statement of Our Values Mission History Message From The Dean Dean's Executive Council Student Academic Services Academic Affairs Contact SMU Meadows Faculty Directory Faculty/Staff Bio Submission Form Facilities Resources Employment Meadows Graduate Student Council Site Map Report a Web Problem News and Events Art History After Hours Virtual Season Subscribers News Featured Media Our Calendar Performing Arts Season Music Recitals Events Newsletter Meadows Events Parking Directions & Public Transportation Meadows Recognition Ceremony The Movement Mission Ignite Arts Dallas SMU DataArts Meadows Prize Arts Entrepreneurship International Opportunities Interdisciplinary Studies Research and Creativity Alumni Submit Your Information Alumni News Alumni in the Media Alumni on LinkedIn Support Meadows Contact Development The Meadows Scholars Program Meadows Gala Apply NowVisit UsGive Menu Search Search Submit Menu Search