Brown University Quick Exit General Health Physical Health Acne Asthma Breast Exams Bronchitis Colds Concussion Headaches Meningitis Mononucleosis Sleep Seasonal Flu Sun Safety and Skin Cancer Stomach Flu Testicular Self-Exams Travel and Health Yeast Infection Emotional Wellbeing Mindfulness Sleep Stress Self-Care Techniques for Stress Relief Wellness on Campus Social Wellbeing Community, Connection and Coping: Remote Resources Consent Economic Stress Roommate Relationships Unlearning Toxic Masculinity Reproductive Health Abortion Adoption Amenorrhea Bacterial Vaginosis Colposcopy Erectile Dysfunction Pregnancy Gender Care GYN Visits HPV Vaccine Menstruation Pelvic Inflammatory Disease Pregnancy Tests Premature Ejaculation Prenatal Care Testicular Self-Exams Accessing Care Gender Care GYN Visits LGBTQ Health Care at Health Services Men's Health Exams Pregnancy Tests STI Testing Options Resources and Links Nutrition & Eating Concerns Eating Well at Brown Being a Vegetarian Dietary Guidelines Eating Off Meal Plan Meal Plan And Dining Information Supplements Eating Concerns and Body Image Body Image Concerns Eating Concerns Help at Brown Sports Nutrition Relative Energy Deficiency in Sport (RED-S) Sports Nutrition Accessing Care Help at Brown Worried about a Friend Sexual Health Sex 101 SHAG! Erectile Dysfunction Orgasm Premature Ejaculation Sex and Alcohol Sex Toys Sexually Explicit Media Contraception Birth Control Pills Cervical Cap Condoms Depo-Provera Emergency Contraception Fertility Awareness Method Implant Internal Condoms IUD Ortho Evra (The Patch) Ring Spermicides and Lubricants The Recent Election & Contraception Access Withdrawal (Pull Out Method) Reproductive Health Abortion Adoption Amenorrhea Colposcopy Erectile Dysfunction Pregnancy GYN Visits HPV Vaccine Menstruation Pelvic Inflammatory Disease Pregnancy Tests Prenatal Care Testicular Self-Exams Yeast Infection Safer Sex Ship n SHAG! Sexual Health and Safer Sex During Covid-19 Abstinence Condoms Dental Dams Internal Condoms Post Exposure Prophylaxis (PEP) Pre Exposure Prophylaxis (PrEP) Safer Sex Withdrawal (Pull Out Method) STIs AIDS/HIV Bacterial Vaginosis Chlamydia Colposcopy Gonorrhea Hepatitis B Herpes HPV and Genital Warts HPV Vaccine Molluscum Contagiosum Oral Sex and STIs Pelvic Inflammatory Disease Pubic Lice and Scabies Sexually Transmitted Infections Syphilis Talking with a Partner STI Testing Options Trichomoniasis Urinary Tract Infections Yeast Infection Sexual Assault & Dating Violence Get Help Sexual Assault Response Line SHARE Advocates Dating Violence First Five Days After an Assault Male Survivors Sexual Violence and Assault Sexual Harassment Stalking Help a Friend SHARE Advocates How to Help a Friend Get Involved in Prevention Interrupting the Red Zone: How we keep each other safe Culture of Respect Collective Sexual Assault Peer Education (SAPE) Help Prevent Sexual Assault Unlearning Toxic Masculinity Relationships and Communication Consent Dating Violence Learn More Common Reactions to Sexual Violence and Assault Predatory Drugs Sexual Misconduct and Title IX Sexual Violence: Key Terms Resources and Links Alcohol & Other Drugs Alcohol Alcohol and Your Body Recognizing a Problem Risks and Realities Sex and Alcohol Ways to Cut Down Other Drugs Caffeine Cocaine Ecstasy Energy Drinks GHB Inhalants Ketamine LSD Marijuana Methamphetamine Predatory Drugs Psilocybin (Mushrooms) Rohypnol Tobacco Smokeless Tobacco Smoking Cessation Tobacco Learn More Law and Policy Summary Educational Links Accessing Care Resources at Brown Off Campus Resources Calling EMS How to Help a Friend Quit Smoking How to Talk to a Friend about Drinking or Drug Use Google Tag Manager Sexual Health Welcome to the sexual health section of the website. These pages contain information to help you navigate the sexual choices that feel right for you. Some general sexual health tips to keep in mind: Get regular medical care. If you are sexually active, this medical care should include getting tested for sexually transmitted infections (STIs). Practice safer sex (like using condoms or dental dams) every time you have sex to prevent STI transmission. If you are having sex with someone of the opposite gender, research the contraceptive options that are available. Use these methods in conjunction with, not instead of safer sex methods. For example, if you are using the pill, remember that this will only work to prevent pregnancy, and you should also use a condom to prevent STI transmission. You may also find it useful to explore the sexuality section, which includes information on orgasm, sex toys, erectile dysfunction and premature ejaculation. Ship n SHAG! Submitted by [email protected] on Oct 30, 2015 - 7:12 pm Place an order with Ship n SHAG and get free safer sex supplies discreetly delivered to your campus mailbox! View the SHAG video series! Submitted by [email protected] on Oct 30, 2015 - 7:12 pm Sexual Health and Safer Sex During Covid-19 What does sexual health look like during a time of social distancing? How do we take care of ourselves and our partners and still benefit from the positive, healthy effects of intimacy and pleasure? Understanding risk reducing measures along with strategies for open and honest communication regarding risks are key to maintaining personal and community wellbeing during the pandemic. Ship n SHAG! Ship n SHAG and BWell By Mail offer delivery of safer sex supplies and other health empowerment tools to your campus mailbox. Ship n SHAG and BWell by Mail are CONFIDENTIAL. Supplies and shipping are FREE. Click here for the order form. SHAG! What is SHAG? The Sexual Health Awareness Group (SHAG) is a peer education program from Health Promotion. SHAG is comprised of Brown students who promote sexual health on campus through workshops, a confidential texting Q&A response service (if you are a Brown student, click here for the texting number), and other outreach projects. The Recent Election & Contraception Access Many students are expressing concern about access to reproductive health care, and the potential for changes to the Affordable Care Act (ACA) under the next President. It is not yet known exactly what changes, if any, will be made to the Affordable Care Act, or when. What we do know is that any changes would take time. Spermicides and Lubricants Safer Sex There are many points to consider as you and your partner(s) choose safer sex and contraceptive options. Condoms and dental dams are often recommended as the best safer sex choice for college students, but you may want to try different options until you find the one(s) you like best. An individual may switch methods because of changes in relationships, age, health, economic security and lifestyle. To help you decide which method to use, you may want to consider the following questions as you read through these pages: How will it fit into your lifestyle? Post Exposure Prophylaxis (PEP) Pelvic Inflammatory Disease Pages 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 next › last » About BWell: Quick Links About Us Staff Confidential Appointments Sexual Assault Response Line Workshops Peer Education Programs Health Empowerment Tools PHONE NUMBERS 401.863-2794 Health Promotion 401.863-3953 Health Services 401.863-6000 Sexual Assault Response Line 401.863-4111 EMS 401.863-3476 Counseling & Psychological Services 401.863-4111 DPS Make an Appointment Contraception Withdrawal (Pull Out Method) Birth Control Pills Depo-Provera Emergency Contraception Fertility Awareness Method Implant IUD Ortho Evra (The Patch) Ring Internal Condoms Cervical Cap Condoms Spermicides and Lubricants The Recent Election & Contraception Access Reproductive Health Erectile Dysfunction Abortion Adoption Pregnancy Tests Prenatal Care Yeast Infection GYN Visits Testicular Self-Exams Pregnancy HPV Vaccine Colposcopy Menstruation Amenorrhea Pelvic Inflammatory Disease Safer Sex Condoms Withdrawal (Pull Out Method) Abstinence Pre Exposure Prophylaxis (PrEP) Dental Dams Internal Condoms Safer Sex Post Exposure Prophylaxis (PEP) Ship n SHAG! Sexual Health and Safer Sex During Covid-19 Sex 101 Sex and Alcohol Erectile Dysfunction Premature Ejaculation Orgasm Sexually Explicit Media Sex Toys SHAG! STIs Pelvic Inflammatory Disease Yeast Infection Oral Sex and STIs Talking with a Partner Bacterial Vaginosis AIDS/HIV Chlamydia Gonorrhea Hepatitis B Herpes HPV and Genital Warts HPV Vaccine Molluscum Contagiosum Pubic Lice and Scabies Sexually Transmitted Infections Syphilis STI Testing Options Trichomoniasis Urinary Tract Infections Colposcopy View the SHAG video series! Ship n SHAG! Place an order with Ship n SHAG and get free safer sex supplies discreetly delivered to your campus mailbox! Get Involved Meet Our Staff About Us Make an Appointment Brown University BWell Health Promotion Health and Wellness Brown University Box 1928 450 Brook Street Providence, Rhode Island, 02912 Phone 401-863-2794 Fax 401-863-7953 [email protected] © 2022 Brown University Connect: [email protected] Related Offices Brown EMS Counseling and Psychological Services Health Services Social Media BWell on Facebook SHAG on Facebook BURP on Facebook Health Services on Facebook