Skip to main content Toggle subitems Main navigation Meet Princeton Toggle sub-items In Service of Humanity Facts & Figures History Honors & Awards Contact Us Visit Us Our Faculty Our Students Our Alumni Our Staff Our Leadership Academic Freedom and Free Expression Academics Toggle sub-items Studying at Princeton Library Areas of Study Humanities Social Sciences Engineering Natural Sciences Advising Academic Calendar Course Tools Learning Abroad Career Development Continuing Education Innovative Learning Research Toggle sub-items Engineering & Applied Science Humanities Natural Sciences Social Sciences Interdisciplinary Approach Dean for Research Office External Partnerships Facilities & Labs One Community Toggle sub-items Lifelong Connections Student Life Arts & Culture Athletics Living in Princeton, N.J. Housing & Dining Activities & Organizations Cultural & Affinity Groups Health & Wellness Religious Life Serving the Public Good Families Admission & Aid Toggle sub-items Affordable for All About Financial Aid Current Undergraduate Financial Aid Undergraduate Admission Graduate Admission For International Students Utility menu News Events Work at Princeton Services & Resources Work-Life Balance Links for Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Giving Search Sites & People × Interdisciplinary Approach A Key to Innovation At Princeton University, interdisciplinary research is the norm: a diversity of expertise leads to the most innovative ideas. Research Collaborations Across departments and across disciplines, Princeton faculty, postdocs, graduate students and undergraduates collaborate on a wide range of research projects year after year. Princetonians also take part in research all around the world (and beyond!) with colleagues at other companies, organizations and universities. Here are a few examples. Evolution calling . New research from Princeton psychology and evolutionary biology professors suggests that "chit chat" could be a social-bonding tool passed down from primates through the ages. Read more Neural sweet talk . Researchers from Princeton University and the Free University of Berlin found that taste-related metaphors such as "sweet" actually engage the emotional centers of the brain more than literal words such as "kind" that have the same meaning. Read more Living bridges . The "living" bridges that army ants build with their bodies are more sophisticated than scientists knew, researchers from Princeton and the New Jersey Institute of Technology report. Read more Interdisciplinary Centers The interdisciplinary approach to teaching and research is prevalent throughout the University, mixing scientists and humanists, engineers and social scientists in a variety of ways to enhance discovery and better serve humanity. Here's a list of some of the centers and programs at Princeton that take this approach: Andlinger Center for Energy and the Environment Center for Digital Humanities Center for Information Technology Policy Center for Statistics and Machine Learning Council for International Teaching and Research High Meadows Environmental Institute Lewis-Sigler Institute for Integrative Genomics Princeton Center for Complex Materials Princeton Center for Theoretical Science Princeton Institute for Computational Science and Engineering Princeton Institute for International and Regional Studies Princeton Institute for the Science and Technology of Materials Princeton Neuroscience Institute University Center for Human Values Princeton and the School of Public and International Affairs Research at Princeton Engineering & Applied Science Humanities Natural Sciences Social Sciences Interdisciplinary Approach Dean for Research Office External Partnerships Facilities & Labs Contact links Contact Us Accessibility Advanced People Search Media Inquiries Website Feedback Visiting links Plan a Visit Maps & Shuttles Varsity Athletics Giving to Princeton Academic links Library Academic Calendar Student Links Faculty & Staff Links Footer social media Facebook Twitter Instagram Snapchat LinkedIn YouTube Social Media Directory Equal Opportunity and Nondiscrimination at Princeton University: Princeton University believes that commitment to principles of fairness and respect for all is favorable to the free and open exchange of ideas, and the University seeks to reach out as widely as possible in order to attract the ablest individuals as students, faculty, and staff. In applying this policy, the University is committed to nondiscrimination on the basis of personal beliefs or characteristics such as political views, religion, national or ethnic origin, race, color, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity or expression, pregnancy, age, marital or domestic partnership status, veteran status, disability, genetic information and/or other characteristics protected by applicable law in any phase of its education or employment programs or activities. In addition, pursuant to Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 and supporting regulations, Princeton does not discriminate on the basis of sex in the education programs or activities that it operates; this extends to admission and employment. Inquiries about the application of Title IX and its supporting regulations may be directed to the Assistant Secretary for Civil Rights, Office for Civil Rights, U.S. Department of Education or to the University's Sexual Misconduct/Title IX Coordinator. See Princeton’s full Equal Opportunity Policy and Nondiscrimination Statement. Princeton University Princeton, NJ 08544 Operator: (609) 258-3000 © 2022 The Trustees of Princeton University Subfooter links Copyright Infringement Privacy Notice