Utah State University sites use cookies. By continuing to use this site you accept our privacy and cookie policy. I agree Skip to content Apply Visit Give Calendar A-Z Index Directory Libraries QUICK LINKS MyUSU SEARCH Utah State TODAY Close search Search Utah State University: I want to search All USU sites People Search terms Submit search × Utah State TODAY Open main menu Close Open search Home Explore Stories Close Explore Stories Arts & Humanities Business & Society Health & Wellness Land & Environment Science & Technology Teaching & Learning Campus Life Athletics University Affairs Series Topics In Focus All Stories Resources Close Resources Subscribe USU Pressroom USU in the News Submission Instructions Submit a Press Release Contact us Quick Links Close Quick Links Apply Visit Give Calendar A-Z Index Directory Libraries MyUSU Health & Wellness Extension Releases New 'Hidden Gems' Family Adventure Guides By Julene Reese | May 27, 2022 Full Size × Download Close Download Utah State University Extension recently launched new “Hidden Gems” Family Fun Adventure Guides. The guides were created to help strengthen family connections, support positive youth development and help families have fun together. According to Naomi Brower, project lead for the adventure guides, playing together as a family is not just fun but it is also an investment, both in your child’s development and in strengthening your family’s relationship. “Research shows that children who spend time with their family have fewer behavioral problems, fewer substance abuse and delinquency issues, and better academic outcomes,” she said. “Families that spend time together also report feeling happier and more fulfilled.” Brower said the hidden gems team has worked to include activities that will appeal to a variety of ages and also that will work for different family dynamics, including grandparents playing with their grandchildren. “We have two kinds of family adventure guides — Family Fun at Home, and Family Fun Out and About,” she said. “We would love people to use these guides indoors or outdoors this summer. It is a great way to bring families closer together after experiencing such a stressful couple of years.” An additional guide available to download is the Date Your Mate Adventure guide, which provides date night ideas and ways to help strengthen relationships. All three guides are free and can be found at hiddengems.usu.edu. Families that download a guide, connect and play together, then provide feedback by July 31 will be entered in a prize drawing. WRITER Julene Reese Public Relations Specialist Extension 435-757-6418 julene.reese@usu.edu CONTACT Naomi Brower Associate Professor USU Extension 801-399-8206 Naomi.brower@usu.edu TOPICS Extension 357stories Family 147stories Wellness 127stories Comments and questions regarding this article may be directed to the contact person listed on this page. Next Story in Health & Wellness May 19, 2022 165461 Update for USU Community on Coronavirus Recent news and information about COVID-19 Read the Story See Also May 02, 2022 443 Ask an Expert - Move More in May: Five Reasons to Increase Physical Activity In many parts of the country, the month of May is when the weather warms after a cold winter. That means it's time to get up and move more. Trending on Utah State Today Read the Story HEALTH & WELLNESS May 19, 2022 165461 Update for USU Community on Coronavirus Read the Story UNIVERSITY AFFAIRS May 02, 2022 2707 USU Names Irungu Inaugural VP of Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Read the Story UNIVERSITY AFFAIRS May 26, 2022 2641 Degree Programs Realigned to Create New Department at Utah State University Read the Story UNIVERSITY AFFAIRS May 03, 2022 2627 Utah State University to Award More Than 7,000 Degrees in 2022 FOLLOW US USU Facebook USU Twitter USU YouTube USU Instagram USU LinkedIn Old Main Hill, Logan, UT 84322 (435) 797-1000 EXPLORE STORIES Browse Archives Explore Topics Explore Series USU in the News FOR THE MEDIA Pressroom Media Contacts Media resources About USU SUBSCRIBE Receive our weekly newsletter. Subscribe to Utah State Today Email Subscribe Maps & Directions Search USU Campus Safety Jobs Contact Disclaimers Copyright Privacy Accessibility Non-Discrimination Back to top of the page