Skip to main content MyUW Calendar Directories Libraries UW Medicine Maps UW Today Helpful Links Computing/IT ISC/Workday Husky Card UW Bothell UW Tacoma UW Facebook UW Twitter University of Washington UW W Logo Aeronautics and Astronautics Wordmark Logo Alumni Industry MyA&A Site Map UW Links Menu Search Main menu About us About us Quick facts Our values Diversity, equity & inclusion A&A's groundbreaking impact Visiting A&A Buildings & directions Employment Undergraduate education & ABET accreditation K-12 outreach Contact us People People Faculty Staff Affiliates, adjuncts, and emeriti Postdocs Visiting committee Student profiles Research Research Research programs Centers and laboratories Senior capstone projects Facilities Facilities Kirsten Wind Tunnel (KWT) C. Bossart Machine Shop 3x3 Low-Speed Wind Tunnel News & Events News & Events News Events calendar Faculty honors Graduation 2022 Highflight Admissions Admissions Why study A&A at the UW? Prospective undergraduate students Prospective graduate students Students Students Student facilities & meeting room access Academic advising Degree requirements A&A student clubs Student employment Student resources Careers and internship Additional Links Additional Links Alumni Industry MyA&A Site Map Search Search Give Give Quick Links Quick Links GIVE Alumni Industry MyA&A Site Map Adding bubbles for greater toughness NSF invests in UW research into deciphering why this works in nanofoams. Nanofoams are full of surprises Up Next Adding bubbles for greater toughness Mike Taniguchi: Distinguished Alum Mike Taniguchi, expert in liquid rocket propulsion, is the 2022 Distinguished Alum. Read Article Carter Vu and team win grand prize A&A's Carter Vu earned the Grand Prize in the 2022 Alaska Airlines Environmental Innovation Challenge for a plastic recycling process. Read Article US News’ 2023 grad school rankings A&A's graduate program ranks 17th in aerospace engineering, according to U.S. News & World Report. Read Article Gary Lai (A&A '99) will go to space Gary Lai (A&A '99), Blue Origin's chief architect for the New Shepard launch system, gets a ticket to space. Read Article More News May 31 Tue Phd General Exam: Newsha Rahimi 1:00 pm - 3:00 pm Guggenheim Hall (GUG) - 305 Jun 1 Wed MS Thesis Defense: Elliot Jennis 9:00 am - 11:00 am Guggenheim Hall (GUG) - 305 Jun 2 Thu MS Thesis Defense: Hariprasad Annamalai 9:00 am - 10:00 am Aerospace And Engineering Research Building (AER) - 130 Jun 2 Thu UW Space Dialogue w/ MIT Lincoln Lab's Robert Guerriero on “Research and Development Across the Space Surveillance Enterprise” 12:00 pm - 1:00 pm Full Calendar Research programs SPACE SYSTEMS Space Occupation We address key challenges to achieve off-planet activities that require vast increases in current technology to operate long-term in space and support biological life. Read more PLASMA SCIENCE Stable fusion We are working toward stable fusion reactions for future applications in energy and deep space propulsion. Read more INTEGRATED FLIGHT SCIENCES & CONTROL Aerospace Systems We research composite materials, flexible structures, load alleviation, hypersonics and more to understand comprehensive flight systems. Read more FLUIDS Efficiency We research fluids to boost aero- and hydro-dynamic efficiency for energy savings and higher stability. Read more STRUCTURES Innovative forms We develop structures and composites that are stronger, lighter, and adaptable for efficiency and safety. Read more CONTROLS Remote control We refine guidance, navigation, and control of unmanned systems as well as optimization of networked systems. Read more FLUIDS RESEARCH IN FOCUS New Law of Fluid Mechanics Researchers in A&A’s Computational Fluid Mechanics Lab discovered a new law of fluid mechanics, a branch of physics, that will aid the future of aircraft design. The “Law of Incipient Separation” defines the maximum slope of an aircraft fuselage to avoid the separation of airflow that increases pressure-drag. Read more STUDENT SPOTLIGHT Cat Hannahs A&A senior and Brooke Owens Fellow Cat Hannahs made it to the Husky 100! As Chief Engineer of SARP, she leads the team of 150 students in the design, manufacturing, testing of a student-developed bipropellant rocket. She supports technical decisions and integration across avionics, propulsion, structures, and payload sub-teams. RELATED STORY Husky 100 "During my time at the UW, I have been able to thrive as an engineer and gain hands-on knowledge outside the classroom, which will serve me in pushing the human boundaries of space exploration." Read more UW College of Engineering Centered CoE Wordmark logo Be Boundless Connect with us: UW Home Contact Us Login Privacy Terms Learn about our ABET Accreditation © 2022 Aeronautics and Astronautics | UW College of Engineering | Seattle, WA