Skip to content Clemson University Clemson University Search Menu Close Sorry, your browser does not support inline SVG. Sorry, your browser does not support inline SVG. Apply Giving News Resources for Students Faculty & Staff Parents Alumni Clemson University Academics Forward Arrow Back Arrow Back Academics Home Employment Opportunities Apply for Admission Colleges College of Agriculture, Forestry and Life Sciences College of Architecture, Arts and Humanities College of Behavioral, Social and Health Sciences Wilbur O. and Ann Powers College of Business College of Education College of Engineering, Computing and Applied Sciences College of Science Graduate School Academic Resources Academic Calendar Registrar Division of Undergraduate Studies Center for Career and Professional Development Academic Success Center GRAD 360° Libraries Outside the Classroom PEER/WISE Call Me MISTER® Creative Inquiry and Undergraduate Research Cooperative Education University Professional Internship and Co-op Program (UPIC) Study Abroad Admissions Forward Arrow Back Arrow Back Admissions Home Schedule a Tour Apply for Admission Applying to Clemson First-Year Undergraduate Transfer Undergraduate International Undergraduate Graduate Students Academic Opportunities Majors Graduate Programs Online Graduate Programs Scholar Programs Paths to Graduate School Honors College Experiential Learning Financial Aid Tuition and Fee Calculator Undergraduate Financial Aid Graduate Fellowships and Awards Residency Requirements Campus Life Forward Arrow Back Arrow Back Campus Life Home Club Sports Brooks Center for the Performing Arts Join Your Clemson Family Finding Your Community Living-Learning Communities Student Veterans Multicultural Programs FIRST Army ROTC Air Force ROTC Services On Campus Housing & Dining Campus Recreation Parking and Transportation Student Health Services TigerOne Card Services Clemson Athletics Get Involved Clubs and Organizations Fraternity and Sorority Life Orientation Ambassadors Tiger Media Graduate Student Government Undergraduate Student Government Research Forward Arrow Back Arrow Back Research Home Clemson University Research Foundation (CURF) Division of Research Research Opportunities Student Research at Clemson Creative Inquiry Research Facilities Postdoctoral Affairs Serving South Carolina Through Research School of Health Research Public Service and Agriculture Clemson Experimental Forest Clemson Extension Clemson Research and Education Centers Public Service and Agriculture Research Farm Services Innovation and Economic Development Corporate Partnerships and Strategic Initiatives Clemson University International Center for Automotive Research (CU-ICAR) Clemson University Restoration Institute (CURI) Clemson University Biomedical Engineering Innovation Campus (CUBEInC) Center for Human Genetics Innovation Campus and Technology Park About Clemson Forward Arrow Back Arrow Back About Clemson Home Clemson News Clemson Athletics For Tigers Applying to Clemson Working at Clemson Traditions Military Heritage Things To Do in Clemson Visit Clemson Campus Resources Employment Opportunities Home and Garden Information Center Brand Guidelines CCIT Academic Calendar Training ClemsonForward Campus Leadership Board of Trustees President Academic Affairs and Provost Inclusion and Equity Student Affairs Faculty Senate Staff Senate Search Resources for Current Students Parents Faculty & Staff Alumni Wilbur O. and Ann Powers College of Business Academics Forward Arrow Academics Visit the College Forward Arrow Visit the College Recruitment Ambassadors Back Arrow Back Office of Career and Global Engagement Greenville Programs Community for Undergraduate Business Students (CUBS) Current Students Forward Arrow Current Students Student Organizations Leadership Opportunities Student Advisory Board Major and Course Fee Back Arrow Back Academic Advising Back Arrow Back Departments Forward Arrow Departments School of Accountancy Department of Economics Department of Financial Management Department of Graphic Communications Department of Management Department of Marketing Clemson MBA Department of Military Leadership Department of Aerospace Studies Research Back Arrow Back Outreach About Forward Arrow About Administration Department Chairs College Directory Forward Arrow College Directory Administration and Support Departments Clemson ROTC Outreach Back Arrow Back College Boards Honors and Awards New Building Forward Arrow New Building About the New Building Building News Back Arrow Back Back Arrow Back Resources Forward Arrow Resources Alumni Forward Arrow Alumni Exchange Monthly Back Arrow Back Recruiters Faculty and Staff Back Arrow Back Apply Giving News Sikes Hall Icon Main Menu Forward Arrow Icon Back Arrow Icon Back Clemson University Academics Academics Home Employment Opportunities Apply for Admission Colleges College of Agriculture, Forestry and Life Sciences College of Architecture, Arts and Humanities College of Behavioral, Social and Health Sciences Wilbur O. and Ann Powers College of Business College of Education College of Engineering, Computing and Applied Sciences College of Science Graduate School Academic Resources Academic Calendar Registrar Division of Undergraduate Studies Center for Career and Professional Development Academic Success Center GRAD 360° Libraries Outside the Classroom PEER/WISE Call Me MISTER® Creative Inquiry and Undergraduate Research Cooperative Education University Professional Internship and Co-op Program (UPIC) Study Abroad Admissions Admissions Home Schedule a Tour Apply for Admission Applying to Clemson First-Year Undergraduate Transfer Undergraduate International Undergraduate Graduate Students Academic Opportunities Majors Graduate Programs Online Graduate Programs Scholar Programs Paths to Graduate School Honors College Experiential Learning Financial Aid Tuition and Fee Calculator Undergraduate Financial Aid Graduate Fellowships and Awards Residency Requirements Campus Life Campus Life Home Club Sports Brooks Center for the Performing Arts Join Your Clemson Family Finding Your Community Living-Learning Communities Student Veterans Multicultural Programs FIRST Army ROTC Air Force ROTC Services On Campus Housing & Dining Campus Recreation Parking and Transportation Student Health Services TigerOne Card Services Clemson Athletics Get Involved Clubs and Organizations Fraternity and Sorority Life Orientation Ambassadors Tiger Media Graduate Student Government Undergraduate Student Government Research Research Home Clemson University Research Foundation (CURF) Division of Research Research Opportunities Student Research at Clemson Creative Inquiry Research Facilities Postdoctoral Affairs Serving South Carolina Through Research School of Health Research Public Service and Agriculture Clemson Experimental Forest Clemson Extension Clemson Research and Education Centers Public Service and Agriculture Research Farm Services Innovation and Economic Development Corporate Partnerships and Strategic Initiatives Clemson University International Center for Automotive Research (CU-ICAR) Clemson University Restoration Institute (CURI) Clemson University Biomedical Engineering Innovation Campus (CUBEInC) Center for Human Genetics Innovation Campus and Technology Park About Clemson About Clemson Home Clemson News Clemson Athletics For Tigers Applying to Clemson Working at Clemson Traditions Military Heritage Things To Do in Clemson Visit Clemson Campus Resources Employment Opportunities Home and Garden Information Center Brand Guidelines CCIT Academic Calendar Training ClemsonForward Campus Leadership Board of Trustees President Academic Affairs and Provost Inclusion and Equity Student Affairs Faculty Senate Staff Senate Search close Wilbur O. and Ann Powers College of Business Academics show submenu for Academics Visit the College show submenu for Visit the College Recruitment Ambassadors Office of Career and Global Engagement Greenville Programs Community for Undergraduate Business Students (CUBS) Current Students show submenu for Current Students Student Organizations Leadership Opportunities Student Advisory Board Major and Course Fee Academic Advising show submenu for Academic Advising Change of Major Policy Departments show submenu for Departments School of Accountancy Department of Economics Department of Financial Management Department of Graphic Communications Department of Management Department of Marketing Clemson MBA Department of Military Leadership Department of Aerospace Studies Research Outreach About show submenu for About Administration Department Chairs College Directory show submenu for College Directory Administration and Support Departments Clemson ROTC Outreach College Boards Honors and Awards New Building show submenu for New Building About the New Building Building News Resources show submenu for Resources Alumni show submenu for Alumni Exchange Monthly Recruiters Faculty and Staff Clemson Home Wilbur O. and Ann Powers College of Business Resources for Current: Recruiters Recruiters To build your brand awareness in the Wilbur O. and Ann Powers College of Business, visit the Office of Career and Global Engagement Employer section. Shaping the Global Marketplace Students aren't the only ones who benefit from internships. Employers who hire interns are able to gain top talent and groom potential employees while providing them with a hands-on, true-to-life working experience. An internship can be as valuable to an employer as it can be to the student. It is an excellent chance to recruit, work with and screen potential full-time employees. Internships can add value to a company's brand by heightening the organization's visibility on campus and enhancing its image throughout a community. What Recruiters Are Saying About Our Students "Clemson students display an excellent ability to execute on their classroom experiences to be successful in our internship program. They consistently display the utmost professionalism and willingness to learn." – Madison Skinner, University Relations Manager, ScanSource "I like hiring Clemson students because they are dynamic, outgoing, strong leaders with excellent communication skills. The E&J Gallo Winery prides itself on recruiting future leaders and we consistently find top talent at Clemson University." – Missy DeArmas, Sales Recruiting Manager, E&J Gallo Winery "I have been very blessed to be surrounded by outstanding individuals from a variety of small, medium and large universities. Clemson graduates typically embrace working in a team environment and understand that success is most likely achieved by working together and embracing new ideas. I also find graduates are humble and proud of their pedigree." – Jeff Brown, Chief Executive Officer, Ally Financial Find an Intern: Establish a Relationship The Office of Career and Global Engagement knows employers want top-notch, quality students as interns. Our office is here to showcase our students and support employers in finding the best intern for the job. Employers who work with our office are guaranteed great customer service while searching for their perfect new employee. The Office of Career and Global Engagement believes in building relationships. We understand the importance of maintaining working partnerships and want to cultivate relationships with employers. To establish a connection with us for the purposes of finding an intern, consider some of the suggestions below and/or contact Leah Hughes at 864-656-2478 or leahh@clemson.edu. Contact our office to schedule an in-person appointment to meet our staff and discuss employer opportunities – putting names and faces together always helps! Get involved in our events. The more events you attend and/or are involved in, the more likely you are to find a perfect intern. Opportunities for involvement include speaking engagements, mentoring, attending networking events, etc. Our office can get you connected! Let us put you in touch with faculty – they are in direct contact with students every day and are a fantastic resource for employers. If you are interested in having an intern, please email leahh@clemson.edu. Click here to access Business JobLink to post positions exclusively for Clemson Business students. What Recruiters Are Saying About Working With Us "Clemson cares very much about the preparedness of their students, and they invest in the employer relationships that are key to giving their students the best opportunities possible." – Kelley Stovall, Chief Recruitment Officer, Northwestern Mutual "Clemson's (Career & Global Engagement) office understood the type of student we needed and gave us the chance to select from a strong pool of candidates. We were impressed with the process and we are excited about the person we hired." – Jim Hendrix, President/Co-Owner, The Graphic Cow Co. Legal Issues – Do You Pass the Test? We want to ensure our students are not only getting the best internship experiences but are also being fairly compensated for their work. When hiring an intern, please consider the Department of Labor's Fair Labor Standard Act to determine whether an intern should be paid. Fact Sheet #71: Internship Programs Under The Fair Labor Standards Act, authored by the U.S. Department of Labor Wage and Hour Division is a useful resource to determine if your organization is passing the test for unpaid interns. Additional information regarding paid internships can be found on the National Association of Colleges and Employers (NACE) website. For on-campus recruiting and information about career fairs, contact the Michelin Career Center at 864-656-6000 or career-L@clemson.edu for more information. Wilbur O. and Ann Powers College of Business Copyright © Clemson University Wilbur O. and Ann Powers College of Business | 343 Chandler L. Burns Hall, Clemson, S.C. 29634 864-656-3177 | Email Us | Website Updates intro-arrow Engage With Us Through Facebook Instagram Twitter LinkedIn YouTube Flickr Clemson University Facebook Instagram Twitter Linkedin Youtube Tiktok Policy/Terms of Use Web Accessibility Ethics/Safety Hotline Privacy Policy Copyright © 2022 Clemson University • Clemson, South Carolina 29634 Clemson University Facebook Instagram Twitter Linkedin Youtube Tiktok Resources A-Z Index Campus Map CU Safety Directory Webcams Apply to Clemson