Skip to main content Apply Canvas Map Calendar Library Directory MyUW more_vert more_vert Close Search Tools 25Live Canvas Catalyst Directory IT Help Library MyUW Office365 Panopto Scout Workday Zoom Search About UW Tacoma About UW Tacoma About expand_more Campus Map Equity & Inclusion Leadership Sustainability Vision, Mission & Values Academics expand_more Academic Calendar Global Affairs Register for Classes Schools & Programs Student Resources Admissions expand_more Apply now Financial Aid & Scholarships Freshmen Graduate Students Majors & Degrees Transfer Students Tuition Visit Campus Students expand_more Center for Student Involvement Register for classes Student Affairs Student Life Student Resources Study Abroad Faculty & Staff expand_more Academic Calendar Administration Faculty & Staff Directory Faculty & Staff Resources Research & Grant Support Community expand_more Alumni Conference Services Husky Landing Professional Development Center UWT Downtown Guide University Bookstore News & Events expand_more Academic Calendar Dawgden Events Calendar News Give MyUW Map Tools About University of Washington Tacoma An Urban-Serving University in the heart of downtown Tacoma, Washington 5,040 Total Headcount UW Tacoma is an urban-serving university providing access to students in a way that transforms families and communities. We impact and inform economic development through community-engaged students and faculty. We conduct research that is of direct use to our community and region. And, most importantly, we seek to be connected to our community's needs and aspirations. Students More than half of students transfer to UW Tacoma from one of the many community colleges in the area or from other universities. Freshmen from high schools all over the Puget Sound and beyond make up a growing portion of students. Add to the mix students who are returning to school after years away, military personnel and their families, and professionals working on new career goals. Our students create a kaleidoscope of perspectives crucial to learning. Where Do UW Tacoma Students Come From? Top High Schools Thomas Jefferson HS Todd Beamer HS Kent Meridian HS Puyallup Senior HS Governor JR Rogers HS (tie) Kentridge HS (tie) Top Community Colleges Tacoma Community College Pierce College Highline College Green River College South Puget Sound Community College Student Profile 4,382 Undergraduate Enrollment 658 Graduate Enrollment 2,594 School of Interdisciplinary Arts & Sciences 864 School of Engineering & Technology 742 Milgard School of Business 399 School of Social Work & Criminal Justice 177 School of Nursing & Healthcare Leadership 149 School of Education 118 School of Urban Studies 38% Caucasian 21% Asian American 14% Hispanic/Latino 10% African American 9% Two or More Indicated 4% International 1% Hawaiian/Pacific Islander 1% Native American 1% Not Indicated 52% Female 48% Male 83% Attend full-time 68% Receive financial aid 43% Eligible for Pell grants 16:1 Student-Faculty Ratio Learning Education at UW Tacoma happens both in and out of the classroom. Our size means students have the opportunity to work one on one with faculty on research and service projects. This approach helps reinforce key concepts and provides students with practical experience they need to launch their careers. We offer over 50 undergraduate degree programs and options, 15 graduate programs and a variety of professional development courses and certificates. Accreditation The University of Washington Tacoma is accredited as a unit of the University of Washington by the Northwest Commission on Colleges and Universities. Learn more about accreditation. $76 million in financial aid was disbursed in the 2020-21 academic year. Full-time resident annual tuition for 2021-22: Undergraduate: $12,196 Graduate: $20,295 Includes Autumn, Winter and Spring quarters. Graduate tuition varies by program. Campus The 46-acre campus footprint is located on a hillside overlooking the Port of Tacoma and Mount Rainier, on the southern edge of downtown Tacoma, next to museums and the beautifully reconstructed Union Station. Within walking distance are an array of restaurants, attractions, businesses, shops, parks, museums and historic architecture. Community UW Tacoma is an urban-serving university, closely linked with Tacoma and the South Puget Sound. We're a member of the Coalition of Urban Serving Universities, a network of public, urban, research universities committed to creating an educated workforce, building strong communities and improving the health of diverse populations. Land Acknowledgement The UW Tacoma community acknowledges that we learn, teach, work and live on the ancestral land of the Coast Salish people. In particular, our campus is situated on traditional lands of the Puyallup Tribe of Indians. We recognize that this is a difficult and painful history, and we understand we must play an active role in remembering, not just what happened to Indigenous communities; post settlement, but also the rich history that existed long before colonization. This land acknowledgement is one small act in an ongoing process of honoring the past while working together with local Tribes to build a more inclusive and thoughtful community. The UW Connection Created in 1990, UW Tacoma is one of three campuses that make up the University of Washington, which was founded in 1861. Each campus shares a dedication to excellence, the same faculty hiring standards and high standards of social responsibility while offering their own different educational experiences. Bothell Chancellor Kristin G. Esterberg Tacoma Chancellor Sheila Edwards Lange Seattle President Ana Mari Cauce Contact UW Tacoma University of Washington Tacoma 1900 Commerce Street Tacoma, WA 98402-3100 phone_iphone 253-692-4400 email uwtinfo@uw.edu ACADEMICS Academic advising Academic calendar Canvas Library Schools and programs Study Abroad Teaching and Learning Center CAMPUS Campus Safety Equity & Inclusion Financial Aid Housing Information Technology Student Life University Y Student Center ABOUT UW TACOMA Administration Admissions Institutional Research Jobs Parking & transportation Research UW Alerts UWNetID login Puyallup Tribe of Indians Tribal Sponsor of UW Tacoma Learn More > Land Acknowledgement > UW Seattle | UW Bothell © 2022 University of Washington Tacoma 1900 Commerce Street, Tacoma, WA 98402-3100 Contact us | Terms of Use | Privacy Policy