Skip to content Columbia University Irving Medical Center Find People Events Faculty and Staff Resources Give Now Search About Us About Us Facts and Figures Explore CUIMC Events Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion at CUIMC Community Development and Alumni Explore CUIMC Leadership and Administration A-Z Listing Affiliated Hospitals Campus Map and Directions Campus Resources Contact CUIMC Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion At CUIMC, we are committed to continuous improvement in providing culturally inclusive medical education and clinical care. Learn About Our Commitment Education Education Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons Mailman School of Public Health School of Nursing College of Dental Medicine VP&S Columbia Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons is dedicated to developing the next generation of leaders in medicine Learn About Our Academic Programs Research Research The Louisa Gross Horwitz Prize Columbia Technology Ventures Research Administration Columbia Clinical Innovation Lab Patient Care Patient Care ColumbiaDoctors Children's Health Columbia Primary Care Herbert Irving Comprehensive Cancer Center ColumbiaDoctors Dentistry Digital Health Services at Columbia Find a Doctor Search for a provider by specialty, expertise, location and insurance. Schedule an appointment online. Find a Doctor News News For the Media Share Your News CUIMC Update CUIMC Celebrates Columbia Medicine Read the latest news stories about CUIMC faculty, research, and events Explore Our News COVID-19 Resources for CUIMC COVID-19 Resources for CUIMC COVID-19 Information for Patients COVID-19 Campus Safety for Employees and Students COVID-19 Vaccine Information For CUIMC Employees and Students COVID-19 Information and Resources for Clinical Staff COVID-19 Vaccine Information Learn about COVID-19 vaccine availability and requirements for employees and students at CUIMC Get the Latest Information Wendy Chung Named Chief of Clinical Genetics Division in Pediatrics December 19, 2019 Share this page Share on Facebook Tweet Share on Linkedin Share by email Wendy Chung. Photo: John Abbott. Wendy Chung, MD, PhD, the Kennedy Family Professor of Pediatrics at Columbia, has been named chief of the Division of Clinical Genetics in the Department of Pediatrics, effective Jan. 1, 2020. She succeeds Kwame Anyane-Yeboa, MD, who will continue in his role as professor of pediatrics in clinical genetics. Over the past 20 years, Chung’s work in the clinic and laboratory has transformed the approach to patients with rare diseases and led to the discovery of more than 40 novel genetically-defined diseases. She also directed a pilot newborn screening study of spinal muscular atrophy that helped lead to nationwide adoption of this test in newborns. Her laboratory has consistently been funded by the NIH, and this year alone she is the principal investigator of, or affiliated with, several million dollars of grant awards. “I am personally thrilled to be partnered with Dr. Chung as we reimagine what clinical genetics can look like in our department and at Morgan Stanley Children’s Hospital,” said Jordan S. Orange MD, PhD, the Reuben S. Carpentier Professor and Chair of the Department of Pediatrics and the pediatrician-in-chief at NewYork-Presbyterian/Morgan Stanley Children’s Hospital. “I am confident that as a result of this appointment, we will grow and advance our genetics service and research to ultimately improve the lives of countless children.” In addition to earning accolades for her research and clinical care, Chung is renowned for her teaching and mentoring. In 2009, she received Columbia University’s highest teaching award, the Presidential Award for Outstanding Teaching. Columbia University Irving Medical Center NewYork-Presbyterian About Us Careers News Education Patient Care Research Resources at CUIMC Columbia University Irving Medical Center 630 West 168th Street New York, NY 10032 United States Follow Us Facebook Twitter YouTube LinkedIn Instagram Back to top