COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW Academic Advising in the College of Engineering Section Menu Technical Electives Degree Program Requirements Contact Your Academic Advisor Engineering Exceptions Process Application for Degree Role of Faculty Adviser Role of the Student Engineering Academic Advising Remote & In-Person Advising As the University transitions to normal operations, your academic advisor may resume in-person appointments. Please let your advisor know at the time of scheduling which appointment type you would like (remote or in-person). If other accommodations are needed, please let us know in a timely manner. Be sure to check your email for instructions on HOW to join a remote appointment or WHERE to meet for an in-person appointment. As always, if you need anything or have any questions, please reach out to your advisor. Contact your Academic Advisor Find your Degree Requirements Engineering Academic Advising The College of Engineering believes that student academic advising is important to the success of every engineering student. Each semester, College of Engineering students must meet the advising requirements established by their major department before being released to register for courses. Information is also provided for each degree program, how to contact your advisor, how to transfer credits, and guidelines for the Engineering+ program. Contact your Academic Advisor to begin your successful academic career! Transferring to Wichita State If you are planning to transfer to Wichita State University, you should start working with an academic advisor to get information on admission deadlines, scholarships and curriculum. For students currently enrolled at a community college we offer dual advising. Dual advising allows students planning to transfer to WSU to develop a plan of study, avoid unnecessary enrollment duplication and receive up-to-date information. To get started, complete the Dual Advising Form. See how your credits will transfer View the steps to enroll Find us on Facebook Follow us on Twitter 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©