Skip to main content Toggle subitems Main navigation Meet Princeton Toggle sub-items In Service of Humanity Facts & Figures History Honors & Awards Contact Us Visit Us Our Faculty Our Students Our Alumni Our Staff Our Leadership Academic Freedom and Free Expression Academics Toggle sub-items Studying at Princeton Library Areas of Study Humanities Social Sciences Engineering Natural Sciences Advising Academic Calendar Course Tools Learning Abroad Career Development Continuing Education Innovative Learning Research Toggle sub-items Engineering & Applied Science Humanities Natural Sciences Social Sciences Interdisciplinary Approach Dean for Research Office External Partnerships Facilities & Labs One Community Toggle sub-items Lifelong Connections Student Life Arts & Culture Athletics Living in Princeton, N.J. Housing & Dining Activities & Organizations Cultural & Affinity Groups Health & Wellness Religious Life Serving the Public Good Families Admission & Aid Toggle sub-items Affordable for All About Financial Aid Current Undergraduate Financial Aid Undergraduate Admission Graduate Admission For International Students Utility menu News Events Work at Princeton Services & Resources Work-Life Balance Links for Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Giving Search Sites & People × Share on Facebook Share on Twitter Share on LinkedIn Email Print New scholarly database documents the rise in publicly identifying LGBTQI+ elected officials across the globe Riis L. Williams for the School of Public and International Affairs April 25, 2022, 6:48 a.m. Illustration by Egan Jimenez, Princeton School of Public and International Affairs A newly opened database launched by researchers at the School of Public and International Affairs (SPIA) at Princeton shows the dramatic rise in the number of self-identifying LGBTQI+ people serving in public office around the world since the mid-1970s. Andrew Reynolds Photo courtesy of Andrew Reynolds Ranging from the few “out” officials in the time of San Francisco Supervisor Harvey Milk until now, the database in the new Queer Politics website shows the steady growth of people in office who publicly identify as lesbian, gay, bisexual, pansexual, transgender, non-binary, gender-non-conforming, queer and intersex. “Nothing in the world exists like this,” said Andrew Reynolds, a senior research scholar in SPIA and politics who founded the Queer Politics at Princeton (QP@P) program. Reynolds, whose book credits include "Children of Harvey Milk: How LGBTQ Politicians Changed the World" (Oxford), has been researching publicly identifying LGBTQI+ politicians for more than a decade. Database origins But this isn’t Reynolds’ first “first.” In 1999, he wrote an article published by Cambridge University Press titled “Women in Legislatures and Executives of the World” becoming one of the first scholars to collect and analyze worldwide data on women parliamentarians. In 2010, he took an interest in queer politics after noticing a lack of available information on queer-identifying legislators. As someone who’s always enjoyed finding “niche areas and filling information gaps,” Reynolds said he decided to collect the data himself. He established Queer Politics at Princeton in 2020 as a think tank committed to LGBTQI+ research and scholarship. The program aims to connect queer politicians, researchers, activists and educators. Now, Reynolds said, Queer Politics at Princeton has a website built to support its growth. “We have the names of over a thousand out parliamentarians whose data can be analyzed and downloaded directly from the website,” he said. The database, which has records back to 1976 — the year of the first out gay parliamentarian — focuses on officials at the national, state and provincial levels (e.g., members of Parliament and Congress, governors, and mayors) but to date not lower-level elected officials. It breaks down elected officials by nation. Many ways to parse data Users can scroll over each country on a world map to view the total number of representatives and their level of government. Users can also filter searches based on the sexual or gender identity (gay, lesbian, bisexual, transgender, etc.), level of government, party ideology, and office. Launched this spring, the website will grow and evolve over time, Reynolds emphasized. Since it includes only publicly identifying LGBTQI+ representatives, the information and how it’s presented will fluctuate. “The challenge is that this has always been an incredibly sensitive area,” said Reynolds. In many countries, it is too dangerous for LGBTQI+ people to be out. Even if certain politicians are out to the people around them, they may not be to the society at large. Reynolds emphasized that their autonomy, safety and dignity for how they want to identify always comes first. As significant as the increase in public officials has been over the past 40-plus years, Reynolds notes that the data shows that out LGBTQI+ people still make up only a tiny proportion of elected officials worldwide. And while there has been a rise in politicians who identify as bisexual and transgender, the majority within the minority group remains white gay men. “There’s a huge gap in representation for people who identify as bisexual or pansexual or transgender, and queer people of color. I just hope this database helps us see these discrepancies clearly,” Reynolds said. The Queer Politics website and database were created with help from Princeton University research assistants Paul-Louis Blondi ‘24, Rooya Rahin ‘23, and 2022 Rhodes scholar Josh Babu ’22. Web design was led by Jill Moraca. The project received funding from SPIA and the Niehaus Center for Globalization and Governance. The Queer Politics program began a series of webinars in 2020 featuring prominent scholars and activists that quickly found popularity and a large international audience. Reynolds expects that next academic year Queer Politics at Princeton will be able to hold in-person events, including guest speakers and panelists, a filmmaker series and forums. Related Stories UPDATED: Princeton seniors Joshua Babu and Wafa Zaka, and alumna Emma O'Donnell, win Rhodes Scholarships Read more Jarvis named Princeton's LGBT Center director Read more University projects will explore 'overlooked' topics in Princeton's history Read more A new sightline at the theater: Dolan and Wolf bring fresh view of performance studies Read more Princeton LGBTQIA Oral History Project connects students to the past Read more 'Every Voice' conference celebrates LGBT alumni Read more Actress and activist Cox talks about 'journey to womanhood' Read more View All News Contact links Contact Us Accessibility Advanced People Search Media Inquiries Website Feedback Visiting links Plan a Visit Maps & Shuttles Varsity Athletics Giving to Princeton Academic links Library Academic Calendar Student Links Faculty & Staff Links Footer social media Facebook Twitter Instagram Snapchat LinkedIn YouTube Social Media Directory Equal Opportunity and Nondiscrimination at Princeton University: Princeton University believes that commitment to principles of fairness and respect for all is favorable to the free and open exchange of ideas, and the University seeks to reach out as widely as possible in order to attract the ablest individuals as students, faculty, and staff. In applying this policy, the University is committed to nondiscrimination on the basis of personal beliefs or characteristics such as political views, religion, national or ethnic origin, race, color, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity or expression, pregnancy, age, marital or domestic partnership status, veteran status, disability, genetic information and/or other characteristics protected by applicable law in any phase of its education or employment programs or activities. In addition, pursuant to Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 and supporting regulations, Princeton does not discriminate on the basis of sex in the education programs or activities that it operates; this extends to admission and employment. Inquiries about the application of Title IX and its supporting regulations may be directed to the Assistant Secretary for Civil Rights, Office for Civil Rights, U.S. Department of Education or to the University's Sexual Misconduct/Title IX Coordinator. See Princeton’s full Equal Opportunity Policy and Nondiscrimination Statement. Princeton University Princeton, NJ 08544 Operator: (609) 258-3000 © 2022 The Trustees of Princeton University Subfooter links Copyright Infringement Privacy Notice