Skip Navigation Texas A&M University at Galveston Find info for: Future Students Future Students Current Students Faculty & Staff Former Students Visitors Veterans University Catalog Phonebook Calendar A-Z List Search MENU Department of Information Technology helpdesk@tamug.edu Helpdesk Phone Number 409-740-4714 Search About IT Getting Started Services & Support Quick Links Select Web or PeopleWebPeople Search Department of Information Technology About IT Getting Started Services & Support Quick Links Department of Information Technology Welcome to Information Technology SERVICES & SUPPORT Accounts and ID Management Learn about NetIDs, password help, new employee set up requests, etc. Computing, Printing, and Software Learn about campus labs, printing, equipment available for checkout, and new computer information. Security Learn about services we offer to help protect data while traveling, computer security, and two factor authentication. Connect, Communicate, Collaborate Learn how to setup and use email, Cisco AnyConnect VPN, WebEX, Google Suite, TTVN and more... Teaching and Learning Learn about Canvas, classroom technology, tech tools and resources for teaching and learning. Quick Links Use the links on this page for quick access to the resources you need the most. "Student Computer Requirements" The Department of Information Technology at Texas A&M University at Galveston provides IT support for students, staff, and faculty. We are committed to facilitating teaching, learning, and business operations for the University. About IS Contact Us Getting Started Helpdesk E-mail: Helpdesk@tamug.edu Phone: 409-740-4714 Location: Bldg 3007 (CLB), Rm 113 Hours: Monday - Friday 7:30am to 6:00pm Please provide feedback on our services. © 2022 Texas A&M University at Galveston Mailing Address: P.O. Box 1675, Galveston, Texas 77553 Physical Address: 200 Seawolf Parkway, Galveston, TX 77554 Shipping Address: 1001 Texas Clipper Road, Galveston, TX 77554 Site Policies Back to top