Skip to main content Information For: Current Students Alumni Harvard Undergraduates Educators Recruiters Media Apply Give to HGSE Search Apply for Degree Programs Apply for Professional Education Donate Give back to HGSE and support the next generation of passionate educators and innovative leaders. Keywords Close Menu Degree Programs Professional Education Faculty & Research Usable Knowledge Keywords About HGSE About the Dean Dean's Welcome Messages from the Dean Commentary and Media Dean's Office History of HGSE Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Our Impact Campus and Facilities Office Directory Virtual Tour Gutman Conference Center Reservation Request Form Capacities and Cost Floor Plan Catering Policies Audio Visual Directions, Parking, and Hotels Map of HGSE Directions to HGSE History of HGSE Buildings Faculty & Staff Directory Work at HGSE Title IX Information Doctoral Degree Programs Doctor of Education Leadership Doctor of Philosophy in Education Brochures Academic Calendar Academic Catalog Doctoral Viewbook Master's Degree Program Master's in Education Programs Education Leadership, Organizations, and Entrepreneurship Education Policy and Analysis Human Development and Education Learning Design, Innovation, and Technology Teaching and Teacher Leadership Concentrations Arts and Learning Early Childhood Global, International, and Comparative Education Higher Education Identity, Power, and Justice in Education Literacy and Languages A Personalized Approach Online Master's in Education Leadership Foundations Brochures Academic Catalog Academic Calendar Academic Year 2020-22 Programs Professional Education About Us Programs Early Childhood K-12 Higher Education Online Programs For Organizations Group and Team Enrollment Custom Programs Admissions Payment & Tuition Assistance Refunds & Withdrawals Policies and Accessibility Campus Experience On-Campus Program Health and Safety Policies FAQs Events Contact Faculty & Research Faculty Directory Centers, Projects and Initiatives Faculty Recruitment Faculty Experts Admissions Introduce Yourself Explore Find the Right Program Brochures Life at HGSE Connect Apply Refer a Candidate Frequently Asked Questions Financial Aid HGSE & Harvard University Consumer Information Tuition & Costs Applying for Aid Incoming Students Incoming International Students Continuing Students Scholarships, Fellowships & Grants Need-Based Grant Awards HGSE Fellowships Additional Fellowships External Fellowships Student Loans Student Work International Students International Applicant FAQ Funding Sources Students with Families Financial Aid Appeals Presentations & Publications Budgeting & Financial Literacy Budget Calculator Registrar News & Events Harvard Edcast Education Now Askwith Education Forum Upcoming Events Submit an Event Usable Knowledge Ed. Magazine Harvard Education Publishing Group Information for Media Education Now Usable Knowledge Usable Knowledge Harvard EdCast Ed. Magazine HGSE Centennial Community Learning Beyond the Classroom Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Organizations and Initiatives Community Events and Action Resources Teaching and Learning Gutman Library Services Alumni Services Collections Special Collections Request for Library Purchase Library Hours Websites for Educators About the Library Facilities & Equipment Contact Information Coronavirus Response Information Directory Calendar Alumni Network & Connect Get Involved Learn & Grow Benefits & Services my.harvard Student Handbook Introduction Welcome to HGSE Preface Commitment to Diversity Part 1: Enrollment Policies Academic Programs and Affiliations Registration and Enrollment Policies Tuition and Fees Financial Aid Student Health Insurance Grading Part 2: Student Supports Advising HGSE Supports University Supports Campus Safety and Security Part 3: Program Policies Academic Governance Doctor of Education (Ed.D.) Program Policies Doctor of Philosophy in Education (Ph.D.) Program Policies Doctor of Education Leadership (Ed.L.D.) Program Policies Master of Education (Ed.M.) Program Policies Part 4: Academic Integrity and Standards of Conduct Resolution on Rights and Responsibilities Academic Standards and Integrity Standards of Conduct in the Harvard Community Committee on Rights and Responsibilities Policies on Harassment and Discrimination Policy on Consensual Romantic Relationships Policy on Physical Violence Policy on Misrepresentation of Status Policy on Illicit Substances Policy on Hazing Policy on Threats Part 5: Copyright and Publishing Policies Copyright Disclosure Use of the Harvard Name Information For Current Students Alumni Harvard Undergraduates Educators Recruiters Media Connect with HGSE Facebook Twitter Linked In LinkedIn Symbols Created with Sketch. Instagram Community Learning Organizations and Initiatives The Harvard Graduate School of Education includes a thriving, ever-changing landscape of organizations and initiatives built around principles of diversity, equity, and inclusion. These groups and initiatives are energized by the work of students, alumni, faculty, staff, and all members of the HGSE community. Jump to: Students/Alumni | Faculty | Staff Students/Alumni Equity and Inclusion Fellows The Equity and Inclusion Fellows Program provides a range of learning and leadership opportunities for a diverse group of students who are invested in collaborating across differences to catalyze change. Fellows work proactively to drive diversity initiatives at HGSE and across Harvard. Alumni of Color Conference The Alumni of Color Conference (AOCC) is an annual milestone at the Harvard Graduate School of Education — an ambitious gathering designed by HGSE students to bring awareness to the educational issues affecting communities of color. Launched by a visionary group of students in 2002-2003, AOCC aims to inspire and transform education by convening educators, researchers, policymakers, student,s and change-makers of all varieties concerned with issues of race, class, and education, particular as they pertain to communities of color. Contact HGSE's Alumni Relations team to get involved. Diversity Innovation Fund HGSE's Diversity Innovation Fund awards small grants to support student-initiated ideas and projects that broaden the conversation at HGSE and allow for more and varied perspectives, experiences, and forums for exchange. Student Organizations Student organizations enrich the HGSE community and form a major part of the student experience at HGSE. Each year, there are more than 30 officially recognized student organizations, ranging in focus from entrepreneurship to international issues to such affinity groups as the Black Student Union, Communidad LatinX, Future Indigenous Educators Resisting Colonial Education (FIERCE), the Pan Asian Coalition for Education, and QueerEd. Student group have a home in HGSE's Office of Student Affairs, which welcomes and supports student interest in starting and sustaining them. Faculty With support from the Teaching and Learning Lab (TLL), HGSE faculty members can engage deeply in conversation, training, and collaboration as they develop their instructional practices and enrich their course design in ways that actively prioritize diversity, equity, and inclusion. The TLL offers an array of teaching consultation and support services to assist faculty members, teaching fellows, and all HGSE educators as they create high-quality learning experiences and spaces for reflection and growth. Conversations on Race and Racism The purpose of the Conversations on Race and Racism group is to create space for reflective, honest conversations about racism and its implications for our personal and professional selves. The group operates like a Critical Friends Group, using various forms of the consultancy protocol to explore and learn from dilemmas of practice that occur in our HGSE teaching. Faculty of Color Affinity Group The faculty of color affinity group is a space to build community and connection, exchange ideas, and provide support for faculty of color. They provide a space for faculty to learn from one another and reflect on their experiences, instruction, and other topics specific to being a person of color at HGSE. This group was developed and is facilitated by faculty of color. Anti-Racist Teaching and Advising Initiative The Anti-Racist Teaching and Advising (ARTA) Initiative is a multi-year project aimed at helping faculty members further develop the dispositions, knowledge, and skills to engage in anti-racist practices, to disrupt and dismantle racism in our own institution, and to empower students to do the same in their own work. Governed by faculty and academic leaders representing many racial identities and faculty ranks, the initiative hosts activities that range from individual coaching sessions to systemic development experiences. Developing as Anti-Racist White Educators Learning Community Developing as Anti-Racist White Educators (DARWE) is a learning community for white-identified faculty who want to learn more about how their whiteness impacts an understanding of race and racism — and how they can grow as anti-racist white educators working to dismantle white supremacy culture in themselves, their teaching practices, and their communites. Chen Yidan Visiting Fellows Program The Chen Yidan Visiting Global Fellows Program actively promotes the exchange of ideas across national borders. The program brings a diverse group of international leaders and scholars from a variety of sectors to HGSE to create curricular and co-curricular experiences for students. Fellows expand the HGSE community's global and cultural awareness, promoting comparative thinking and perspective-taking for U.S.-based students and international students alike, and creating the potential for lasting partnerships and continued global education exchanges. Staff HGSE values diversity in all forms and believes that each employee brings a set of diverse experiences and identities to the workplace that make the institution stronger, more innovative, and more collaborative. We aim to foster a diverse, inclusive, respectful, and professional work environment — one that offers opportunities to learn, grow, develop relationships, and be challenged. Here are some of the developmental opportunities we've designed to nurture a community culture that centers diversity, equity, and inclusion. Equity Ambassadors The Equity ambassadors Program provides select employees a professional development opportunity to serve as key facilitators for Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion workshops. Equity Ambassadors immerse themselves into engaging practices geared towards advancing the equity-centered work at HGSE. Professional Development Workshop Series Our workshops are designed to raise awareness, enhance interpersonal skills, and highlight the value of collaborating with people across difference. We cover topics that include but are not limited to gender, ethnicity, race, sexual orientation, age, religion, physical and mental ability, and socioeconomic status. Affinity Groups The HGSE staff affinity groups are racial affinity groups designed to build community amongst staff. These spaces are opportunities for employees to provide individual and collective support to the members of the affinity group. In addition, the space contributes to personal and professional development in the workplace. Staff Common Reading Group This group provides informal lunch time opportunities for staff to engage in conversations related to a common reading that centers topics related to diversity, equity, and inclusion. The books chosen are based on staff suggestions and provided by Gutman Library. Widen Layout: wide In this section Community Learning Beyond the Classroom Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Organizations and Initiatives Community Events and Action Resources Teaching and Learning Community Learning Community Learning Beyond the Classroom Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Organizations and Initiatives Community Events and Action Resources Teaching and Learning Sign up for our newsletters to get the latest from the Harvard Graduate School of Education. Sign Up Now Artboard 1 13 Appian Way | Cambridge, MA 02138 Centennial Contact Us Directory Directions Harvard University ©2022 President and Fellows of Harvard College Linked In Symbols Created with Sketch. Youtube RSS Podcast HGSE Publishing Policies & Disclaimers Digital Accessibility Policy Privacy Policy Trademark Notice