Skip to main content Toggle navigation Search Global dropdown menu Research Support Subject Librarians Reach out to a librarian for specialized help in a discipline. Library Catalog Find books, audio and video, music scores, maps and more. Research Guides Use the best resources we have, picked by librarians. Databases There's a wealth of information to be found through our database subscriptions. Collections Print and digital collections serve as extensions of our teaching and research facilities. Research Services We're available throughout all stages of your research. Quick Links Library Search JSTOR PubMed Make an Appointment Newspapers Journals Collections Program Borrow & Renew Library Catalog Find books, audio and video, music scores, maps and more in the catalog. Borrowing & Requesting Learn how to borrow materials at Dartmouth and from other libraries via BorrowDirect or DartDoc. Tech Loans We've got everything from chargers to a professional portable recording studio. Alumni Access and Resources How to access resources, on and off-campus. Media Discover an extensive range of movies, television series, documentaries, educational programs, audio and more. Off-Campus Access Students, staff, and faculty can access most of our electronic resources off-campus. Quick Links BorrowDirect DartDoc Course Reserves for Faculty Course Reserves for Students Libraries & Spaces Study and Meeting Spaces Book a meeting room for a group or sign up to use a private study room. Hours and Locations Our hours, holiday closings, street addresses and contact information. Baker-Berry Library Our main library houses the humanities, mathematics, music, physical sciences and social sciences collections Biomedical Libraries The Dana and Matthews-Fuller libraries support the disciplines of health and life sciences. Evans Map Room Houses thousands of sheet maps, mapping software, atlases, globes & more. Feldberg Business & Engineering Library Offers support for the Tuck School of Business & Thayer School of Engineering. Jones Media Center Provides facilities & collections for researching, viewing & producing media. Rauner Special Collections Library Includes rare books, manuscripts & more. Sherman Art Library Supports the departments of Art History, Studio Art, as well as the Hood Museum of Art. About Us Hours and Locations Events Latest News Privacy Policy Dean’s Council for Equity and Inclusion Strategic Objectives Visiting & Exhibits Help Library Search Learn about signing into your account, search options and tips, getting to resources and working with citations. Research Support We're committed to partnering with you to enhance and showcase your research. Publishing Support We provide consultation focusing on opportunities in digital publishing and scholarship. Subject Librarians We have a subject librarian for your major who wants to help! Teaching Support We have librarians who specializes in your subject area and can support your students’ learning. Workshops & Events We offer a variety of events to assist you in developing skills ranging from research to programming. Quick Links Contact Us FAQs Off-Campus Access Send Us Feedback Staff Directory Login Students, Faculty & Staff DHMC & Guests Alumni BorrowDirect DartDoc Search Global dropdown menu Research Support Borrow & Renew Libraries & Spaces Help Login Students, Faculty & Staff DHMC & Guests Alumni BorrowDirect DartDoc Feldberg Business & Engineering Library Feldberg Library serves the Tuck School of Business, Thayer School of Engineering, and Dartmouth College Visit Research Guides Services Workshops Contact Staff Today See All Hours Feldberg Business & Engineering Library 8am - 12am See All Hours The West End's Library A home for collaboration and research, Feldberg Library brings together the schools and interdisciplinary programs of Dartmouth's West End. Highlights: Subject expert librarians Bloomberg terminals Large tables and individual study spaces Reservable conference room Research Guides Business Computer Science Economics Energy Engineering Entrepreneurship Tools & Services Service Research Consultations For questions big or small, schedule a conversation with a subject specialist librarian Service Course Reserves Find course reserves for students, set up reserves for Faculty Service Request Materials Request document delivery or interlibrary loan materials through DartDoc or Borrowdirect Service Career Support Tools for job hunters and interview preparation Service Alumni Support A limited selection of Library resources is available remotely to alumni Tool Bloomberg Terminals Real-time and historical financial market and economic data Visit Feldberg Feldberg Library is located on the first floor of the Murdough Center, just off the Irving Institute atrium. Subject librarians are typically available weekdays, between 8:00am - 4:30pm. Drop in or schedule an appointment Alumni and community members are welcome to visit Feldberg during normal operating hours Visitor parking options are available Feldberg Stories Feldberg Library Reopens On March 21, 2022, Feldberg Library reopened! The Irving Institute's construction is complete, and we'd love to welcome you to our refreshed space. Chat with the business, engineering, and economics librarians, use the Bloomberg terminals, or just find a sunny place to study. About the Feldberg Business & Engineering Library Serving Dartmouth's West End since 1973 Tuesday Tune-Ups Engineering Workshops The Engineering librarians at Feldberg host several workshops each term and invite you to attend their Tuesday Tune-Ups. Email & Phone Feldberg Business & Engineering Library feldberg.reference@dartmouth.edu 603-646-2191 Address Feldberg Business & Engineering Library 31 Murdough Dartmouth College Hanover, NH 03755 Mailing Address: Dartmouth College 31 Murdough Center Room 101-A HB 6193 Hanover, NH 03755 Our Staff John Cocklin Research & Learning Librarian - Business & Economics Interim Head of Acquisitions Jane Quigley Head of Research & Learning for STEM, Business & Economics Karen L. Sluzenski Research & Learning Librarian - Business & Economics Richard Langdell Library Collections Services Specialist Amelia B. Looby Research & Learning Librarian - Business & Economics Matthew M. Benzing Research and Learning Librarian - STEM Kenneth Gonzalez-Ponce Library Access Services Specialist Jentry E. Campbell Research and Learning Librarian - STEM All Feldberg Business & Engineering Library Staff Dartmouth Library Baker-Berry Library Book Arts Workshop Evans Map Room Jones Media Center Biomedical Libraries Feldberg Business & Engineering Library Rauner Special Collections Library Records Management Sherman Art Library About Us Strategic Objectives Staff & Departments Subject Librarians Alumni Services Visiting & History Accessibility Library Catalog Careers Friends of the Library More About Us Contact Us 25 North Main Street Hanover, NH, USA 03755 Phone: 603-646-2567 Contact Us Give Us Feedback Connect with Us Facebook Instagram YouTube Footer copyright Dartmouth Copyright © 2020 Trustees of Dartmouth College Privacy