Skip to main content MyUW Calendar Directories Libraries UW Medicine Maps UW News Helpful Links Computing/IT ISC/Workday Husky Card UW Bothell UW Tacoma UW Facebook UW Twitter University of Washington University of Washington Students Parents Faculty & Staff Alumni Quick Links Global home Global learning in our colleges and schools Global partnerships Office of Global Affairs UW Global Travel UW Study Abroad Make a gift Global partnerships A Global University Menu Global home Global learning in our colleges and schools Global partnerships Office of Global Affairs UW Global Travel UW Study Abroad Make a gift Home A Global University Global partnerships As one of the world’s most innovative universities, the University of Washington promotes collaboration across traditional boundaries. Together with partners from academia, industry, communities and non-profits, we are working to solve global problems that impact us all. Strategic initiatives Innovation Imperative Empowering students and researchers of all backgrounds to learn, discover and build solutions to tomorrow’s challenges. Population Health Our 25-year vision to advance the health of people around the world by leveraging capabilities and opportunities at the UW and beyond. Race & Equity at the UW Working together to combat the individual and institutional racism and inequities that persist here and throughout our society. Partnership highlights Global Innovation Exchange GIX connects universities, corporations, and nonprofits from around the world to pioneer new forms of teaching and learning, develop leaders in innovation and collaborate on solutions to global challenges. Association of Pacific Rim Universities Connecting world-class research institutions from around the Pacific, APRU offers many opportunities for UW students, faculty and researchers. Future of Ice The UW is investing in knowledge, education and discovery about the polar regions, and fostering collaborative partnerships with stakeholders. Department of Global Health With over 190 partners globally, the Department’s training and capacity building efforts are improving health in 37 countries around the world. Indigenous Wellness Research Institute A catalyst and hub for local, tribal, state, national and international partnerships to guide and lead research and capacity building efforts. Center for Conservation Biology Through innovative research, education and public outreach, the Center addresses human impacts on threatened and endangered species around the world. Explore our impact UW global engagement data map Partnership planning Support and resources are available for UW departments creating agreements or MOUs with global partners Learn more Delegation visits We can assist with planning your campus visit, connect you with departments of interest, and answer questions about the Seattle region Request assistance Technology transfer CoMotion helps bring innovation to global impact through partnerships across campus and around the world Read more University of Washington Be boundless Connect with us: Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Pinterest Accessibility Contact Us Jobs Campus Safety My UW Rules Docket Privacy Terms Newsletter © 2022 University of Washington | Seattle, WA