Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Finance Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Finance Topics Systems Training Forms & Documents Policies About Buying and Paying Travel and Expense Accounting Operations Payroll Tax and Unclaimed Property Banking and Cash Management Audit and Risk Management Budgets Sponsored Projects: Post-Award Financial Administration International Operations Investments Advisory Committee on Socially Responsible Investing Log Into ARC Log Into Concur About This Site Finance Announcements Finance Departments Careers with Columbia Finance EVP of Finance and Information Technology Financial Reports Organizational Charts Service Center Columbia Finance You are here: Home Finance Topics Advisory Committee on Socially Responsible Investing Advisory Committee on Socially Responsible Investing Advisory Committee on Socially Responsible Investing The Advisory Committee on Socially Responsible Investing (ACSRI) was established as a permanent addition to the University in March 2000. The volunteer committee's purpose is to advise the University Trustees on ethical and social issues that arise in the management of the investments in the University's endowment. ACSRI Charter 2021-2022 Annual Agenda Common Tasks users icon View Our Current Membership bookmark icon View Our Recent News / Actions check-square icon View Proxy Voting Guidelines clock icon Find Meeting Minutes book icon View Annual Reports list icon View Proposal Submission Guidelines newspaper icon Press Inquiries envelope icon Contact Us ACSRI Meeting Dates for Academic Year 2021-2022 September 22, 2021; November 17, 2021; January 19, 2022; March 23, 2022; April 6, 2022; April 13, 2022; April 20, 2022; April 27, 2022 Additional Resources Center for International Earth Science Information Network The Center for International Earth Science Information Network (CIESIN) works at the intersection of the social, natural, and information sciences. Center on Capitalism and Society The Center on Capitalism and Society is endeavoring to build a modern economics of the workings of modern economies. Center on Global Energy Policy The Center on Global Energy Policy's (CGEP) mission is to enable public and private sector leaders to make more informed choices about the world’s most pressing energy issues. Columbia Center on Sustainable Investment The Columbia Center on Sustainable Investment (CCSI) is the only university-based applied research center and forum dedicated to the study, practice, and discussion of sustainable international investment. Columbia's Financial Overview This page offers an overview of University resources, provides answers to a range of questions about topics including the endowment, and links to resources including University financial reports. Columbia Investment Management Company The Columbia Investment Management Company (IMC) is charged with managing the bulk of the University's endowments, also known as managed assets. Columbia School of Social Work and Racial Justice Faculty, students, and staff of the Columbia School of Social Work have undertaken a wide range of racial justice initiatives. Columbia University Endowments Endowment funds are an important part of the University’s operations and play an integral role in helping the University achieve its goals. Columbia University Office of Government and Community Affairs The Office of Government and Community Affairs (GCA) is the University’s primary liaison with federal, state, and local government, as well as with residents, community leaders, and civic organizations in surrounding neighborhoods. Columbia University Relevant Investment Policies Read about our relevant investment policies. Earth Institute Columbia’s Earth Institute blends research in the physical and social sciences, education and practical solutions to help guide the world onto a path toward sustainability. Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory seeks fundamental knowledge about the origin, evolution, and future of the natural world. Sabin Center for Climate Change Law The Sabin Center for Climate Change Law develops legal techniques to fight climate change, trains law students and lawyers in their use, and provides the public with up-to-date resources on key topics in climate law and regulation. Sustainable Columbia Sustainable Columbia is the brand identity for Columbia University’s campus sustainability initiative, centralized through the Environmental Stewardship office and executed by a variety of University departments and projects. The Tamer Center for Social Enterprise The ReEntry Acceleration Program (REAP) at Columbia Business School trains MBA students to deliver business training to incarcerated individuals, develops tools for potential employers, and creates forums for new relationships to shape a solutions-focused dialog around post-incarceration employment. University Life's Racial Justice Mini-Grant Program Annually, University Life invites students to apply for the Racial Justice Mini-Grant Program and share innovative ideas to address racism. Columbia Finance615 West 131st Street, Studebaker Building · New York, NY 10027 Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close