Skip to global navigation Skip to page navigation Skip to content Skip to footer For Current Students, Faculty & Staff Close internal resources For current Butler students, faculty, and staff Directory My.Butler Access Email Canvas Resources For Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Library Academic Calendar Event Calendar Maps & Directions Parking BUPD Search Close Site Search Search for pages, PDFs, and contact information Search Butler.edu Search Browse the Directory Menu Close Use the icon on the left to see more links. Close AboutToggle Sub Menu Maps & Directions At a Glance Experiential Learning Student-Centered Education Innovation Graduate Outcomes Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Community & Engagement Office of the President Strategic Direction Mascot Blue IV Give to Butler COVID-19 Information Admission & AidToggle Sub Menu First-Year Transfer International Graduate & Professional Non-Degree Admitted Students Financial Aid & Scholarships Net Price Calculator Tuition & Costs Find Your Admission Counselor Virtual Tour AcademicsToggle Sub Menu Undergraduate Majors & Minors Graduate & Professional Colleges Three-Year Programs Study Abroad Service-Learning Internships & Careers Academic Services Registration & Records Library Academic Calendar Student LifeToggle Sub Menu Housing & Dining Living in Indy Student Well-Being Recreation Student Involvement Greek Life Campus Safety Volunteering Athletics Arts & Events Esports News & Stories Make a Gift Resources for: Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni & Friends Request Info Schedule a Visit Apply to Butler Resources internal resources For current Butler students, faculty, and staff Directory My.Butler Access Email Canvas Resources For Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Library Academic Calendar Event Calendar Maps & Directions Parking BUPD Search Site Search Search for pages, PDFs, and contact information Search Butler.edu Search Browse the Directory Menu About Maps & DirectionsAt a GlanceExperiential LearningStudent-Centered EducationInnovationGraduate OutcomesDiversity, Equity & InclusionCommunity & EngagementOffice of the PresidentStrategic DirectionMascot Blue IVGive to ButlerCOVID-19 Information Admission & Aid First-YearTransferInternationalGraduate & ProfessionalNon-DegreeAdmitted StudentsFinancial Aid & ScholarshipsNet Price CalculatorTuition & CostsFind Your Admission CounselorVirtual Tour Academics Undergraduate Majors & MinorsGraduate & ProfessionalCollegesThree-Year ProgramsStudy AbroadService-LearningInternships & CareersAcademic ServicesRegistration & RecordsLibraryAcademic Calendar Student Life Housing & DiningLiving in IndyStudent Well-BeingRecreationStudent InvolvementGreek LifeCampus SafetyVolunteering Athletics Arts & Events Esports News & Stories Make a Gift Resources for: Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni & Friends Request Info Schedule a Visit Apply to Butler Home Student Life Living in Indy Living in Indy Student Life Menu Housing & Dining Living in Indy Student Involvement Recreation & Wellness Student Well-Being Clubs & Organizations Greek Life Campus Safety Esports Crossroads of you. When students come to Butler, they’re getting more than just a world-class education. They’re joining the bustling community of Indianapolis, nicknamed the Crossroads of America and home to five professional sports teams, the Indianapolis Motor Speedway, a vibrant arts and culture scene, and many major businesses and corporations. We partner with local businesses large and small, so students have incredible opportunities to explore their future careers before graduation through internships and hands-on learning. And our strong relationship with the community gives students plenty of chances for service learning and volunteering. Our campus is only five miles from downtown, so Bulldogs really get the best of both worlds: a close-knit campus community with easy access to all that Indy has to offer. INDIANAPOLIS IS HOME TO… …more than 850,000 residents —making it the 17th largest city in the United States. In Indianapolis, we welcome all. We are a place that celebrates diverse cultures and shared histories through festivals, arts, and cultural events. …a diverse and vibrant metropolitan area Named by Condé Nast as “the most underrated food city in America,” we also claim the world’s largest single-day sporting event (Indianapolis 500) and North America’s top-rated airport for eight years in a row. …internationally renowned professional and amateur sports In addition to the Colts, Pacers, Fever, Indy Eleven, Indians, and Fuel, we are home base for the NCAA and numerous collegiate and Olympic Sports organizations. …risk takers and barrier breakers From jazz to motorsports to the world’s fastest bicycle wheels, Kurt Vonnegut and John Green to Salesforce and Eli Lilly and Co., our spirited social, cultural, and business entrepreneurs form collaborative partnerships and move big ideas into action. Rankings & Recognition Ranks among the top 25 best places to live for young professionals by U.S. News and World Report (2020) Ranked 10th among best cities for new college grads where jobs are abundant and housing is affordable by Business Insider (2018) Ranked 3rd among best cities for jobs according to Glassdoor’s list of “25 Best Cities for Jobs in 2020.” Named as one of the 21 Best Places to Go in 2021 by Condé Nast Traveler #1 Best Airport in North America, Airports Council International (2012-2020) Arts & Culture As home to the world’s largest children’s museum, a world-renowned symphony, a vibrant theatre scene, and a plethora of professional and amateur arts organizations, Indy has established a name for itself as a vibrant, creative metropolis. Highlights The Children’s Museum of Indianapolis Let your imagination run wild down the halls of the largest children’s museum in the world. Located just minutes from downtown, The Children’s Museum of Indianapolis features five floors of fun and interactive learning that are thrilling for all ages. The new Sports Legends Experience combines indoor and outdoor exhibits so guests can run, dive, jump, putt, and play year round! Butler Arts and Event Center Comprising several venues on Butler University’s campus, the Butler Arts and Event Center features both collegiate and professional performances. BAEC’s largest venue, Clowes Memorial Hall, hosts Broadway in Indianapolis, which brings Broadway-level productions to the Midwest. Also, don’t miss showstopping collegiate performances like Butler Ballet’s The Nutcracker as the next generation of professionals grace the stage. Indianapolis Zoo Located downtown in White River State Park, the Indianapolis Zoo is a 64-acre accredited zoo, aquarium, and botanical garden. The zoo is divided by ecological systems, so visitors can take in the sights, sounds, smells, and, of course, animals in every environment. Approximately 250 species can be seen in these numerous biomes, so go pay them a visit! Indianapolis Public Library College students and business travelers alike will love the serenity and architectural beauty of the Indianapolis Public Library. Originally constructed in 1917, the library has undergone a recent expansion to create a breathtaking glass and steel atrium, which serves as an impressive event space. The city skyline views offered by the sixth floor spaces are a must-see for any Indy explorer. Old National Centre At the heart of downtown sits a nationally-renowned venue that hosts some of the best entertainment in the city. Old National Centre, formerly the Murat Centre, boasts a lineup of Broadway shows, concerts, and more each year. Check out a show and grab dinner or a drink closeby on Mass Ave. Newfields The Indianapolis Museum of Art, located on the Newfields campus, is one of the nation’s largest art museums. Art enthusiasts will love the 152 acres of gardens and grounds featuring the museum’s permanent collection of many cultures and eras, numbering more than 50,000 works. Even if art isn’t really your thing, Newfields also offers 100 Acres: The Virginia B. Fairbanks Art & Nature Park, one of the United States’ foremost museum contemporary sculpture parks, with installations integrated into woodlands, wetlands, lakes, and meadows that are breathtaking no matter your level of interest. Butler students are eligible for a free Student Membership. NCAA Hall of Champions For those who love to follow their legends, the NCAA Hall of Champions boasts two floors of interactive exhibits to engage visitors and create a true-to-life understanding of what it takes to make the grade. The first floor, “Arena,” represents all 24 NCAA sports represented and contains fun features such as a trivia challenge, current team rankings, and video highlights. The second floor, “Play,” is even more interactive as guests can compete virtually and hands-on through sports simulators, a 1930’s retro gymnasium, ski simulator, and more! Indiana State Museum Much more than your average museum, the Indiana State Museum is blazing the trail of interactive museums across the country. Exhibits come to life through costumed actors and intriguing presentations. Spanning three floors of permanent and changing galleries, the museum tells the story of the Hoosier state. The museum also houses unique amenities such as an IMAX movie theater, the Indiana Store, The Farmers Market Café, and the L.S. Ayres Tea Room. Eiteljorg Museum of American Indians and Western Art Prepare to immerse yourself in the beauty of another culture. Named one of the world’s finest Native American and Western Art collections by True West, the Eiteljorg Museum of American Indians and Western Art is one of only two such museums east of the Mississippi. Works of sculpture decorate the lawn and invite guests in to view the traditional and contemporary works of artists such as Georgia O’Keefe and Andy Warhol. Food After visiting dining destinations across the United States, Zagat recognized Indy’s culinary scene as one of the “most exciting food cities in America.” In addition, the food scene in Indy has recently been recognized by Food & Wine, The New York Times, Condé Nast Traveler, and many more as one of the best in the nation. Indianapolis offers over 300 diverse dining options for all palates and price points. International fare, world-famous steakhouses, and sports bars with plenty of televisions for viewing the big game are also just around the corner. Highlights Here are just a few choices within a short drive, bike ride, or even walk from campus. PREGAME MEAL Chatham Tap This British pub is decked out in Butler themed décor and features large TVs broadcasting sports, which makes Chatham Tap the perfect place to head to before you continue down the path to Hinkle Fieldhouse or The Sellick Bowl. With lots of burgers, wraps, and appetizers to choose from, you’ll be able to cheer on the Dawgs with a full heart and belly. Pro Tip: On game day, get there early! The place fills up quickly. BURGER Twenty Tap A local favorite, Twenty Tap takes its name from its emphasis on micro and local brews. This family-friendly gastropub also has excellent burgers, tasty cheese curds, and some yummy vegetarian options. Pro Tip: Grab a spot outside and enjoy some of the best people watching in Midtown. BBQ Fat Dan’s Deli With an emphasis on food that pairs well with a cold drink, Fat Dan’s has some of the best brisket, smoked ribs, and wings around. If you are from the Chicago area and want a taste of home, the Chicago dogs and Italian beef sandwiches are as authentic as they get. Pro Tip: They have tater tots. TATER TOTS! PIZZA Byrne’s Grilled Pizza This is definitely an upgrade from your average pizza. Byrne’s has wood fired pizzas and stromboli that are a massive step up from the delivery you get at the residence halls. Perched within walking distance from campus, it is super conveniently located. Pro Tip: Make it a big night out and grab ice cream, coffee, or cupcakes on the same block. SANDWICH Ripple Bagel and Deli This place is an institution. Ask any Butler grad from the last decade where to get a sandwich and without hesitation, they’ll point you to this spot on the strip in Broad Ripple. They steam the sandwiches, which sounds a bit weird, but believe us, it’s tasty! Pro Tip: The menu is massive, and everyone has a favorite. Ask a friend for their pick before you go. MEXICAN La Piedad Super casual and super good, this beloved restaurant is named for the owner’s hometown in Mexico. When the weather is nice, you can sit out on the deck and enjoy your chips and salsa under twinkling lights. Pro Tip: BRICS ice cream is just a block away. Grab a cone and walk the Monon Trail after dinner. THAI Chiang Mai Noodle With large portions, a good atmosphere, and a menu with just about any Thai dish you can think of, Chiang Mai specializes in more than just their noodle dishes. There’s an outdoor patio that is great for a date or night out with friends. Pro Tip: Want to enjoy it from your couch? You can also order delivery or carry out. SUSHI Sushi Bar A simple name and an even simpler façade, you might be inclined to discount what’s inside this restaurant on the Broad Ripple strip. But if you like sushi, this is a can’t miss destination. Everything is reasonably priced and tasty. Pro Tip: The patio is pet friendly, so all Dawgs—even the four-legged kind—are welcome. VEGETARIAN/VEGAN 3 Sisters’ Cafe With a focus on vegetarian and whole food using locally sourced product, this cafe is open for breakfast and lunch Thursday-Monday. Its location in the heart of Broad Ripple can also not be beat. Pro Tip: Check out the build-your-own grilled cheese for a host of unique cheeses and other toppings. Sports Collegiate, amateur, professional—Indy has it all when it comes to sports, from top-ranked teams to award-winning facilities, and the experience of hosting over 400 national and international events over the past 30 years. Highlights Lucas Oil Stadium At the top of the list of Indy’s incredible sports venues is Lucas Oil Stadium, home of the Indianapolis Colts and Super Bowl XLVI (46). This retractable roof, multi-purpose venue can seat over 63,000 for football games and concerts. Perks of the stadium include public tours given every week that give participants an up-close and personal look at the playing field, an NFL locker room, Lucas Oil Plaza, the press box, and numerous other areas that are generally inaccessible to the public. For diehard football fans, this stadium is a must-see. Gainbridge Fieldhouse Home to the NBA’s Indiana Pacers and the WNBA’s Indiana Fever, Gainbridge Fieldhouse was named the finest NBA basketball arena in the country by the Sports Business Journal–and for good reason! This retro-style fieldhouse in the heart of downtown offers the classic basketball feel that you love paired with the special effects and technology to get fans on their feet. The venue also plays host to various concerts and special events throughout the year, and is a common location for NCAA tournaments and the annual Crossroads Classic basketball series. Indianapolis Motor Speedway Ladies and gentlemen, start your engines! Indianapolis Motor Speedway (IMS) is known as “The Greatest Race Course in the World” by fanatics and casual sightseers alike. Nestled in the town of Speedway, Indiana, within the city of Indianapolis, IMS is most known globally for hosting the largest single-day sporting event in the world, the Indianapolis 500. Fans from every continent make the trip to visit this electric and historic venue. As host to the Verizon IndyCar Series, NASCAR, Red Bull Air Race, LPGA and many other forms of racing and events throughout the year, it’s no wonder that Indy has been named The Racing Capital of the World. If you haven’t been to a race yet, you certainly need to! Victory Field Home to the Triple-A Indianapolis Indians, Victory Field is a 14,200-set ballpark located on the west side of Indianapolis. Recognized as one of the best ballparks in the United States by publications such as Baseball America, Sports Illustrated, and Midwest Living, Victory Field is the perfect spot for a day trip in Indy. The Tribe play a 70-game home schedule running from April all the way through September. Outdoor Recreation With numerous parks, trails, and recreational amenities, Indy is a destination for an outdoorsy or active lifestyle. Highlights Indianapolis Cultural Trail From Mass Ave to Fountain Square, the internationally-acclaimed Cultural Trail connects visitors with these unique neighborhoods. Hop on one of the 250 bikes from the Pacers Bikeshare to explore the city, and dock the bike at one of the 26 stations once you are done. Eagle Creek Park Eagle Creek Park covers more than 3,900 acres across the northside of Indianapolis, rendering it one of the nation’s largest city parks. Hiking and picnicking enthusiasts will enjoy the park’s breathtaking trails. The park also features a unique, 1,400-acre lake that frequently hosts the U.S. Rowing National Championship. Residents of Indy and surrounding areas love this spot for its ropes course, swimming, canoeing, kayaking, and boating. The Canal and White River State Park District Whether it’s a relaxing stroll, a vigorous run, or a paddle boat ride, the Canal and White River State Park Cultural District has something for everyone, including authentic gondolas! This is not your typical waterway, as this outdoor destination also boasts public art, unique cafes, and more! Jobs & Internships Indianapolis is a perfect environment to get early career experience. In fact, Business Insider ranked it 10th among best cities for new college grads where jobs are abundant and housing is affordable. We’re home to many state government offices, as well as major businesses and corporations, so Bulldogs have plenty of options when it comes to finding internships and building a network early on. Indy was recently named one of Forbes’s top 10 U.S. cities for business, especially in the healthcare, education, finance, and tech sectors. In the next five years alone, the city estimates adding 45,000 new jobs, thanks in large part to anchor corporations such as Eli Lilly, Rolls-Royce, Salesforce, and Cummins. But small businesses also flourish in Indianapolis. More than 90,000 have fewer than 10 employees, and another 35,000 have fewer than 50. Featured Corporations in Indy Lilly Delta Faucet Rolls-Royce Salesforce Cummins Roche Diagnostics Visit Indy Lids Indianapolis Symphony Orchestra Travel & Transportation Traveling to and around Indianapolis is easy, convenient and affordable. Known as the Crossroads of America, Indy is within a day’s drive of over half of the country’s population. For those arriving by air, the LEED-certified Indianapolis International Airport is a short, low-traffic 20 minutes from campus. Traffic congestion is a rarity in Indianapolis, and visitors find the city’s street layout straightforward and easy to navigate. Highlights Indianapolis International Airport Consistently named the best airport in North America, Indianapolis International Airport combines state-of-the-art security measures with soaring, smart design and public artwork. Uber Butler has partnered with Uber, an on-demand private driving app, to offer a safe, alternative transportation option to and from campus. New users to Uber can use promo code BUTLER101 to receive $20 off their first ride. Need information on how to use Uber? It’s simple: Use the iPhone or Android app, or visit m.uber.com to request a ride. Sit back and relax. Uber will text you when the vehicle arrives. When your trip ends, Uber will auto-charge your credit card and email you a receipt. Fare split rides with friends for an even more cost-effective way to get around! IndyGo IndyGo can get you there. They operate 31 bus routes throughout Indianapolis, providing nearly 10 million passenger trips a year. Along with the opening of the Julia M. Carson Transit Center in downtown Indianapolis two IndyGo routes (18 & 28) were modified to serve the Butler Campus directly with convenient stops along Sunset Avenue. Use Google Maps to plan your trip with the IndyGo trip-planner. IndyGo now has Real-time arrival information. IndyGo Red Line travels within a few blocks of campus. The Red Line is a bus system that “runs from Broad Ripple through downtown Indy to the University of Indianapolis.” The route will come within a quarter mile of more than 50,000 residents. Throughout most of the day, buses arrive every 10 minutes, and the Red Line operates for 20 hours each day, seven days a week. Pacers Bikeshare Similar to BlueIndy, Indiana Pacers Bikeshare is a great way to explore the city at a low cost. Indiana Pacers Bikeshare has about 20 stations around the Indianapolis Cultural trail, and is a great option if you want to zip around downtown on a sunny day. 4600 Sunset Avenue Indianapolis, IN 46208 800-368-6852 Careers at Butler Legal Consumer Information Website Feedback & Accessibility Sexual Misconduct Resources Incident of Bias Privacy Policy © 2022 Butler University Para ver esta pagina en espanol, véala en el traductor de Google