Skip to main content Temple University Explore Temple’s Schools and Colleges Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Support Temple Temple University Search Site Search Full Menu Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees President History & Traditions Temple Health News & Media Offices Public Information Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Development Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Libraries Innovation Strategy Certificate (Graduate) You are here Home Academics Degrees and Programs Innovation Strategy Certificate (Graduate) Apply Request More Info Innovation Strategy Certificate (Graduate) Admissions Innovation Strategy Graduate Certificate Prepare to drive innovation and build an agile organization with the Innovation Strategy Graduate Certificate in Temple University’s Fox School of Business. This high-impact program equips the next generation of leaders to make strategic decisions and succeed professionally in a rapidly changing competitive landscape. Learn to overcome strategic and tactical challenges to design organizations that reward innovative thinking and embrace disruptive environments. Learn from faculty and other thought leaders who are leading researchers and practitioners in the field. Questions examined in the certificate program include the following. How do firms create or add value through innovation? How does innovation fit into a firm's overall business strategy? How does the value frontier evolve and transform the competitive landscape? How do you structure internal innovation initiatives to reduce resistance to change? How do you balance your innovation investments and portfolio between radical and incremental innovation, and the legacy business? The skills and knowledge gained in answering these questions give certificate participants the ability to remain competitive and transform their organizations. Who might be interested? The Innovation Strategy Graduate Certificate is designed for managers responsible for strategy and innovation; high-potential employees who wish to advance in their careeres and drive innovation at their organizations; and entrepreneurs who want to build organizations focused on innovation and change. With maximum flexibility to suit working professionals, the nine-credit certificate is available completely online, in a traditional in-person learning setting, or in a hybrid format. Request Information Learn more about the Graduate Certificate in Innovation Strategy. Apply Now Ready to apply? Submit your graduate application. Request Information Apply Classes & Curriculum The Innovation Strategy Graduate Certificate features a powerful and rigorous curriculum from the Fox Strategic Management Department. Core courses include Global Innovation Strategy: Creating Agile, Innovative, Globally Competitive Organizations; and Innovation Intelligence: Plan, Build, Protect, and Monetize a Technology/Innovation Portfolio. You may transfer the credits you earn to a Fox Specialized Master’s or MBA program. Learn more about Innovation Strategy Graduate Certificate courses. Related Graduate Degrees Business Administration PhD Business Administration MBA Business Administration DBA Digital Innovation in Marketing MS Innovation Management and Entrepreneurship MS Tuition & Fees In keeping with Temple’s commitment to access and affordability, this Graduate Certificate offers a competitive level of tuition with multiple opportunities for financial support. Tuition rates are set annually by the university and are affected by multiple factors, including program degree level (undergraduate or graduate), course load (full- or part-time), in-state or out-of-state residency, and more. These tuition costs apply to the 2021–2022 academic year. Pennsylvania resident: $1,218.00 per credit Out-of-state: $1,276.00 per credit Learn more about our tuition and fees. Careers The Innovation Strategy Graduate Certificate offers benefits to participants seeking career advancement in their current organizations, and those looking for new opportunities. As innovation becomes critical in rapidly changing industries, managers and employers in all disciplines can benefit from a deeper understanding of innovation strategy. Innovation strategists are in demand, as firms increasingly rely on entrepreneurial thinking to actively improve their innovation capabilities. Certificate graduates combine their newfound expertise in strategy, innovation and change management to assume leadership roles within the following functions, among others. Corporate leadership Strategic management New product development Consulting Change management New corporate ventures and open innovation strategy Organizational design Program Contact Robert McNamee is the managing director of the Innovation and Entrepreneurship Institute and related programs. Phone: 215-204-4119 Email: robert.mcnamee@temple.edu Accreditation The Fox School of Business is accredited by the Association to Advance Collegiate Schools of Business (AACSB). The school has maintained AACSB accreditation since 1934. BU-INVS-GRAD Additional Program Information School/College Site Go back to AcademicsMore in Innovation Strategy Certificate (Graduate) Admissions Apply Request More Info Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Calendar Policies Social Media TUportal TUmail Accessibility Careers at Temple Safety & Emergency Information Ethics & Compliance Privacy Statement Professional Licensure Disclosures Follow Temple University Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community. Apply Request More Info