Skip to main content Harvard University 1 site notification Latest COVID Information Search Search Quick Links Find a Person A to Z Index Menu Academics Academics Explore all programs Browse all of our undergraduate concentrations, graduate degrees, and professional certificates. Harvard Schools Academics Visit each School for information on admissions and financial aid. Explore more Harvard College Harvard Business School Harvard Division of Continuing Education Harvard Divinity School Harvard Faculty of Arts and Sciences Harvard Graduate School of Arts and Sciences Harvard Graduate School of Design Harvard Graduate School of Education Harvard John A. Paulson School of Engineering and Applied Sciences Harvard Kennedy School Harvard Law School Harvard Medical School Harvard Radcliffe Institute Harvard School of Dental Medicine Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health Professional and lifelong learning Free online courses More about academics at Harvard Campus Campus Harvard's Campus Get tickets to our next game, hours and locations for our libraries and museums, and information about your next career move. Libraries Campus Explore our libraries Arnold Arboretum Horticultural Library Baker Library and Special Collections Biblioteca Berenson Botany Libraries Cabot Science Library Countway Library Dumbarton Oaks Research Library Ernst Mayr Library Fine Arts Library Frances Loeb Library Fung Library Gutman Library Harvard Divinity School Library Harvard Film Archive Harvard Law School Library Harvard Map Collection Harvard University Archives Harvard-Yenching Library HKS Library and Knowledge Services Houghton Library Lamont Library Loeb Music Library Robbins Library of Philosophy Schlesinger Library on the History of Women in America Tozzer Library Widener Library Wolbach Library Woodberry Poetry Room Museums Campus Explore our museums The Arnold Arboretum Carpenter Center for the Visual Arts Collection of Historical Scientific Instruments Graduate School of Design Exhibitions Harvard Art Museums Harvard Forest Harvard Museum of Natural History The Harvard Museum of the Ancient Near East Harvard Museums of Science and Culture Harvard University Herbaria Mineralogical and Geological Museum Museum of Comparative Zoology The Peabody Museum of Archaeology and Ethnology Warren Anatomical Museum Athletics Work at Harvard Events Commencement Campus Harvard Commencement for the Class of 2022 Harvard Commencement for the Classes of 2020 & 2021 In Focus In Focus Explore and understand the world with Harvard In Focus is a curated examination of Harvard's research, scholarly work, and community. Recent topics include: Commencement 2022 In Focus Celebrating the Graduates Highlighting the accomplishments and celebrating the bright futures of Harvard’s most recent grads Meet this year's graduates What's inside? The Harvard Gazette's coverage of this year's Commencement Explore each School's events Mental Health In Focus Mental Health Awareness Month To commemorate Mental Health Awareness Month, the Harvard community is exploring how we cope with, manage, and understand mental health and how it impacts our lives. View the feature What's inside? Is a mobile app as good as a therapist? Bipolar breakthrough Climate Solutions In Focus Climate Solutions Faculty and students from across the Harvard community are working on ways to address climate change and its effects. Explore these adaptations What's inside? Zero-waste architecture Better batteries inspired by a BLT Explore the In Focus archives Visit Visit Visit Harvard Ideas and assistance for your trip to our campus. Tours Maps and Directions About About About Harvard Information on how Harvard is structured, explore our long history, and discover our extended community. History of Harvard About History of Harvard Harvard is perhaps best-known because of its enduring history of innovation in education. But even die-hard Harvard buffs are not likely to know all of these Harvard firsts and historical snippets. Learn more History timeline Nobel Laureates Honorary Degrees Harvard Shields Leadership and Governance About Learn about our Leadership Officers and Deans Harvard Corporation Board of Overseers University Professorships Diversity and Inclusion Endowment Harvard in the Community Harvard in the World News News The Harvard Gazette Official news from Harvard University about science, medicine, art, campus life, University issues, and broader national and global concerns. Trending News Stories News Read more news Jacinda Ardern’s forceful reminder: Democracies can die New Zealand Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern delivers warning on erosion of trust in her Commencement address, urging social media reforms and calling on individuals to reject tribalism. Harvard awards seven honorary degrees During today’s Commencement ceremony in Tercentenary Theatre, Harvard will recognize seven with an honorary degree. Humans hot, sweaty, natural-born runners Hairless, clawless, and largely weaponless, ancient humans used the unlikely combination of sweatiness and relentlessness to gain the upper hand over their faster, stronger, generally more dangerous animal prey, Harvard Anthropology Professor Daniel Lieberman said Thursday (April 12). Pursuit of joy starts with truth, Wu tells graduates Class Day speaker Michelle Wu ’07, J.D. ’12, urged the class of 2022 to hold fast to Harvard’s founding motto “veritas,” or truth. Sign up for the Daily Gazette Navigation Quick Links A to Z Index Find a Person Events Media Relations Alumni Give Now Harvard University Close Honoring the Class of 2021 In Focus Honoring the Class of 2021 Mental Health Climate Solutions Celebrating the Class of ’22 Forever ’21 Highlighting the accomplishments and celebrating the bright futures of Harvard’s Class of 2021 Learn about the virtual ceremony and each School’s celebration Honoring the Class of 2021 Whether you missed the ceremony or just want to watch the jubilation all over again, you can explore this year's virtual ceremony with our video playlist. Watch the ceremony Explore the ceremonies Ruth Simmons urges graduates to fight for equality and inclusion Ruth Simmons, one of the nation’s top higher education leaders and president of Prairie View A&M University, called on Harvard and its graduating Class of 2021 to fight to close the chasm of inequality that recent years have illustrated still exists in America. Read more on the Harvard Gazette Harvard President Bacow delivers 2021 Baccalaureate speech President Larry Bacow offered poignant reflections during the Baccalaureate Service honoring the Harvard College Class of 2021. Read more on The Harvard Gazette Harvard to recognize seven with 2021 honorary degrees Seven honorary degrees will be awarded to Frances Hamilton Arnold, Martin Baron, Arlie Russell Hochschild, Salman Amin Khan, Margaret Hilary Marshall, Anna Deveare Smith, and Sebastião Salgado. Read more on The Harvard Gazette Harvard honors new military officers in ROTC commissioning ceremony Eleven undergraduates and one student at Harvard’s Extension School will commission as officers in the military during Commencement week. Read more on The Harvard Gazette Basketball star Jeremy Lin gets candid NBA star and activist Jeremy Lin ’10 spoke to graduating seniors about how he’s come to see his identity as a barrier-breaking Asian American in a new light. Read more on The Harvard Gazette Harvard awards 7,640 degrees, certificates over 2020-21 academic year At the ceremony honoring the Class of 2021, the University awarded a total of 7,640 degrees and certificates. Read more on The Harvard Gazette Harvard Graduate School of Education graduate Shahara Jackson A successful educator on her own, Shahara Jackson came to Harvard with the goal of becoming a transformational superintendent. Learn more about Shahara Harvard Chan School Graduate Lawson Ung Lawson Ung studied eye disease and social determinants of where it’s most common. Learn more about Lawson Harvard Graduate school of arts and sciences graduate Hannah Sim To better share her knowledge of quantum, Hannah Sim writes articles for the general public, sharing her knowledge through open-source software codes, podcasts, and YouTube. Learn more about Hannah Back to the start From acceptance to move-in day to housing day, look back at the Class of 2021’s early years at Harvard. The convocation ceremony President Faust urges the Class of 2021 to connect with classmates and embrace diversity. Nearly 40,000 apply to College Class of ’21 Prior to the start of the Harvard Financial Aid Initiative, fewer than 20,000 students applied for admission. The Class of ’21 arrives, with boxes A busy move-in day as the first-years settle into Yard dorms. Housing day for the class of ’21 A nor’easter didn't stop first-year students from playing in the Yard after learning which House they'll live in. White Coat Day 2017 The HMS/HSDM Class of 2021 received their white coats and met each other and faculty during their orientation to medical and dental school. Meet the Class of 2021 Learn more about these grads’ journeys to Harvard, what they explored while they were here, and where they’re headed next. Read the profiles Beyond the ceremonies Celebrations are smaller, but no less meaningful in a quieter Yard Capturing the moments of celebration as Harvard recognizes the Class of 2021. Read more on The Harvard Gazette Notable Commencements University archivist Megan Sniffin-Marinoff, who is retiring after almost 20 years at Harvard, shares notable Commencements and Harvard University Archives’ role in preserving each year’s ceremony. Read more on The Harvard Gazette The cap (and gown) on a most unusual senior year Harvard Class of ’21 reflects on experiences, gains, and losses during a challenging pandemic year. Read more on The Harvard Gazette Celebrating plant graduation class of 2021 Plant graduation season, an annual rite of passage at the Arnold Arboretum of Harvard University, is an occasion for pomp and circumstance as well as a reminder of our connections to nature and the power of plants. Read more from the Arnold Arboretum Harvard University theses, dissertations, and prize papers Trace intellectual trends and currents across time, learning from Harvard's best and brightest in this collection at the Harvard University Archives. Read more from Harvard Libraries Notable moments from Harvard’s 2020-21 academic year As life returns more to normal, there is so much to reflect on and to celebrate as we look back. Read more on The Harvard Gazette Harvard Extension School graduate Brett Dennis-Duke Brett Dennis-Duke designed a course of study she calls “medical anthropology” which pieced together the philosophical and theoretical connections between social justice and health care. Learn more about Brett Harvard College graduate Eli Langley “If there is one thing I can impart to anybody, it’s that it’s worth fighting to change things. People who come after you may never know your name, but they can benefit from the work that you do. It is worth it.” Learn more about Eli Harvard Engineering School Graduate Daniela Villafuerte When Daniela Villafuerte wasn’t dancing with hip hop, jazz, and ballet troupes or performing in the Harvard-Radcliffe Dramatic Club production of “West Side Story” she was developing a prototype of a device that can track a person’s respiratory rate, heart rate, and oxygen saturation, all through non-contact methods. Learn more about Daniela Grand finale Take a look at some of the the final projects, theses, dissertations, and awards from members of the Class of 2021. Larisa Owusu Larisa Owusu’s thesis, “Iconic Market Women: The Unsung Heroines of Post-Colonial Ghana (1960s-1990s)” was an attempt, she says, to highlight the role that market women played and continue to play in redefining Ghana’s post-colonial development. Read more about the thesis Mojib Ghaznawi Harvard Kennedy School student Mojib Ghaznawi coauthored a Policy Analysis Exercise final thesis, exploring State Department staff retention trends. Read more about his studies Jenna Lang Jenna Lang studied the psychology of communication for her thesis. She says, “This project allowed me to explore how emotion impacts how we perceive news and how much we want to share it.” Read more about the thesis Marwah Aman For her capstone project, SEAS student Marwah Aman developed an accessibility device that reconstructs a physical 3D model of the user’s surroundings. Read more about the project Onisha Etkins The dissertation by Harvard Chan School student Onisha Etkins considers intersectional approaches for understanding the impacts of racism on mental health, including migration history and contact with the criminal legal system. Read more about her studies Jonas LaPier For his capstone project, LaPier developed prediction maps that indicate where heavy metal contamination of well water is more likely. Read more about the project Sahil Lauji Sahil Lauji was selected to participate in the James C. Gaither Junior Fellows program run by the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace. Read more about the award Constance Gist Constance Gist will be honored with the Intellectual Contribution Award for Education Policy and Management (EPM) at HGSE’s Virtual Commencement. Read more about the award Rawan Alhawamdeh For her DCE capstone project, Rawan Alhawamdeh researched and developed an evidence-based-therapy approach to treating ASD, ADHD, and giftedness. Read more about the project Security & Brand Report Copyright Infringement Report Security Issue Trademark Notice Website Accessibility Digital Accessibility Privacy Statement Get In Touch Contact Harvard Maps & Directions Jobs © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube 0:00 0:00