Menu Office of Inclusion, Diversity, and Equity Recruit Retain Reaffirm Home ACT, Mission & Strategic Priorities Overview ACT: ACTION FOR CULTURAL TRANSFORMATION Champion in Inclusion, Diversity, and Equity Award: An Award of Excellence ACT Strategic Pillar Co-Leaders Diversity Engagement Survey ACT Town Hall 2021 About Us Vice Dean Eve Higginbotham OIDE Key Members Advisory Council Publications OIDE Champion in Inclusion, Diversity, and Equity Award: An Award of Excellence PROF (Project Retention of Faculty) Anchor Programs Overview (AMP) Alliance of Minority Physicians (CHEA) Penn Medicine Center for Health Equity Advancement FOCUS on Health & Leadership for Women (LGBT HEALTH) Penn MedQicine Program for LGBTQ Health Penn Center for Global Genomics and Health Equity Penn PROMOTES Research on Sex and Gender in Health, (PEER) Program for Health Equity in Education and Research Audiences Graduate Students Postdoctoral Fellows Medical Students Graduate Medical Education Faculty Year in Review Events Upcoming Events Martin Luther King Jr. Health Equity Symposium Health Equity Week Previous Events Religious Holidays Resources Covid-19 Resources Articles Books Podcasts Ted Talks Videos Compilation of Leadership Development Opportunities for Health Professions Faculty and Practitioners Professional Development Martin Luther King, Jr. 2020 Symposium Keynote Address by Dr. Leandris Liburd, Director of the Office of Minority Health and Health Equity at the Centers for Disease Control. Visit Blog Conversations About Inclusion and Diversity Elevating a Spirit of Hope and Perseverance Fueled by Action for Cultural Transformation (ACT) View Calendar Upcoming Event  Hispanic Heritage Month Princeton Health Presentation What We Are Celebrating 10 Facts Welcome to Penn Medicine's Office of Inclusion, Diversity, and Equity Watch the 2021 MLK Jr. Symposium Here Lasting commitment is born of genuine appreciation for that which we aspire to be. Penn Medicine’s commitment to inclusion and diversity is more than words echoing our evolving society; it is a commitment backed by actions and accountability that are the foundation of our eminence, core values, and the strategic priorities that drive how we discover, educate, and serve the world. Penn Medicine’s five-year strategic plan crafted in 2013, Shaping the Future of Medicine, defined our priorities; one of which was the creation of the Office of Inclusion, Diversity and Equity (OIDE). Our efforts are aimed at continuing the support of diverse faculty, staff, and students, and the several innovative programs that advance our initiatives and values. Our charge is to continue exploring opportunities to embrace diversity and broaden access to people of all ethnicities, historical traditions and economic backgrounds, genders, religions and disabilities, and respecting sexual orientation and veteran status. We are at a pivotal moment in our nation’s history and in our institution. The pandemic we are currently facing conflated with the recent murders of Black men and women by law enforcement entrusted to serve and protect, and subsequent uprisings have shined a light on the many problems deeply engrained in our society and by extension, the medical community. The Office of Inclusion, Diversity, and Equity, in partnership with many other entities across Penn Medicine, is dedicated to changing the culture and breaking down barriers for not only employees but the patients we serve and the community at large. As physicians, scientists, staff, students, and educators, we are in a unique position to lead but we need the entire community to come together to do so. I urge you to visit our site often and let us share in this commitment with you to create sustainable change. Virtual PSOM Community Dialogue on Racism, Racial Justice, and Social Equity Read the summary Watch the recording Office of Inclusion, Diversity, and Equity Annual Report 2020-2021 2019-2020, 2018-19, 2017-18, 2016-17, 2015-16, 2014-15 Five Year Strategic Plan If you would like to help support OIDE's Mission, donate here. View More Tweets Twitter Exploring Racism’s Health Impact in a VA Renal Clinic Study by Penn LDI’s Kevin Jenkins Provides New Insights Into… https://t.co/8VwblQSfbc @UPenn_OID 2 weeks, 6 days ago CELEBRATING BLACK HISTORY MONTH: A TIME FOR REFLECTION, RENEWAL, AND RECOMMITMENT https://t.co/ciSbY2VAZR #PaulFarmer #BlackHistoryMonth @UPenn_OID 3 months ago RT @PennMedBench: A big congratulations to the @PennMedicine scientists who have been elected as 2021 @aaas Fellows for their extraor… https://t.co/WfqqTvktlF @UPenn_OID 4 months ago View More Posts Instagram Contact Directions Phone Email Connect Blog Events Twitter Instagram Resources Useful Links Sitemap © The Trustees of the University of Pennsylvania | Site best viewed in a supported browser. | Report Accessibility Issues and Get Help | Privacy Policy | Site Design: DART Web Team. Home ACT, Mission & Strategic Priorities Overview ACT: ACTION FOR CULTURAL TRANSFORMATION Champion in Inclusion, Diversity, and Equity Award: An Award of Excellence ACT Strategic Pillar Co-Leaders Diversity Engagement Survey ACT Town Hall 2021 Close Menu About Us Vice Dean Eve Higginbotham OIDE Key Members Advisory Council Publications OIDE Champion in Inclusion, Diversity, and Equity Award: An Award of Excellence PROF (Project Retention of Faculty) Close Menu Anchor Programs Overview (AMP) Alliance of Minority Physicians (CHEA) Penn Medicine Center for Health Equity Advancement FOCUS on Health & Leadership for Women (LGBT HEALTH) Penn MedQicine Program for LGBTQ Health Penn Center for Global Genomics and Health Equity Penn PROMOTES Research on Sex and Gender in Health, (PEER) Program for Health Equity in Education and Research Close Menu Audiences Graduate Students Postdoctoral Fellows Medical Students Graduate Medical Education Faculty Close Menu Year in Review Events Upcoming Events Martin Luther King Jr. Health Equity Symposium Health Equity Week Previous Events Close Menu Religious Holidays Resources Covid-19 Resources Articles Books Podcasts Ted Talks Videos Compilation of Leadership Development Opportunities for Health Professions Faculty and Practitioners Professional Development Close Menu Close Menu