Skip to main content University of Texas at Austin Home Human Resources Menu University of Texas at Austin Home Financial and Administrative Services The University of Texas at Austin Financial and Administrative Services Human Resources Search Search GTranslate English EnglishArabicChinese (Simplified)Chinese (Traditional)FrenchGermanItalianPersianPortugueseRussianSpanishSwahiliTurkishVietnamese Search Search Current Employee Expand Applying for University Vacancies Career Management Compensation Compliance Conflict Management Coronavirus Resources Dealing with Workplace Changes or Job Transitions Employee Assistance Program (EAP) Employee Information System Employee Services Flexible Work Arrangements Forms Insurance Learning & Development New Employees Occupational Health Program Retirement Checklist Retirement Programs Staff Awards Sporadic Employment Time Off UTemps Furlough Program FAQs Prospective Employee Expand About Austin Applying Benefits Compensation Learning & Development Temporary Employment Retired Employee Expand Checklist Employment After Retirement Forms for Retired Employees Insurance Part-Time Work Support & Services Student Employee Expand Academic Employment Celebrate Student Employees Compensation Eligibility to Work Employee Insurance & Benefits Employment Resources Finding a Student Job Forms for Student Employees Learning & Development Managing Student Employees New Student Employee Checklist Non-Academic Employment Orientation & Training Student Employee Excellence & Development (SEED) Student Employment Questions and Answers Supervisor’s Checklist for Hiring a New Student Employee Manager & HR Pro Expand Compensation Coronavirus Resources Departmental Compliance Flexible Work Arrangements Forms for Managers Hiring and Separation HR Spectrum I-9 and E-Verify Resources Learning & Development Management Tools Organization Effectiveness Performance Management Timekeeping Training for HR Professionals Workers Compensation Insurance (for Managers) About Expand HR Partnerships Organizational Chart Our Organization Staff Directory Contact Expand Directions Find Your HR Representative Need Help? GTranslate English EnglishArabicChinese (Simplified)Chinese (Traditional)FrenchGermanItalianPersianPortugueseRussianSpanishSwahiliTurkishVietnamese Home Current Employee : Career Management Staff Tuition Assistance Program (STAP) Staff Tuition Assistance Program (STAP) Overview The Staff Tuition Assistance Program (STAP), formerly known as the Staff Educational Benefit (SEB), covers the cost of tuition for courses found in the University of Texas at Austin official course schedule and is available for use in the fall, spring and summer. The program applies to either: One eligible university undergraduate or graduate semester credit course regardless of the number of credit hours, or More than one semester credit course provided the combined number of course hours does not exceed three. Tuition is paid at the resident tuition rate. If you register at the non-resident rate, you pay the difference. Eligibility To be eligible for the STAP, you must: be an active university employee (the STAP is not available to faculty or to students employed in positions that require student status as a condition of employment) be appointed full-time (40 hours a week) If you're in a regular position that doesn't continue for 12 months you may be eligible on an exception basis (e.g. elementary teacher, University Health Services). If you're in such a position you can contact the Human Resource Service Center at 471-HRSC (4772) to request an exception. have worked in a full-time position for at least 12 months prior to the first class date have been regularly admitted to the university as a degree-seeking or non-degree-seeking student For information on how to apply for admission, please visit the Office of Admissions’ website have registered for class For information on how to register for classes, please visit the Office of the Registrar’s website To determine your eligibility for a specific semester, go to STAP Eligibility (EID required). Applying for and using the STAP If you've been admitted to the university and have registered for a specific semester, apply for the program online (EID required). In all cases for the fall and spring semesters, you must apply for the program by 4:30 p.m. on the 12th class day of the semester that you want the program applied. Review Summer Sessions for the deadline to apply for the program for a summer session. You don't need your supervisor's approval to apply for or receive the STAP. You do need your supervisor's approval to take classes during the workday. For further information, please refer to the Revised Handbook of Operating Procedures, 7.E.4, Taking Coursework During the Workday Policy. What the STAP Does Not Cover Dissertation courses with numbers ending in 99 Courses through the Texas Extended Campus (including University Extension Courses) Courses through Executive Education Courses offered through Option III programs Your admissions application fee. (You must pay the application fee when you apply for admission. Fee waivers are available in certain circumstances. If an employee applies for admission and is not accepted, the fee will be refunded. For information call the Office of Admissions at 512-475-7325.) Online courses that are not part of the course catalog, are not considered in-residence, or do not receive formula funding Optional fees such as Longhorn Sports and Cactus yearbook Auditing courses Reimbursement for previous semester's courses Courses at any other college or university Student services, such as the Counseling and Mental Health Center and University Health Services, excluding the Forty Acres Pharmacy Costs associated with required vaccines for entering students are not covered by the SEB. Please see& Required Vaccinations for more information. Recreational Sports membership - You must purchase a RecSports membership to access classes that meet at a RecSports facility (Gregory Gym and Aquatic Complex, Caven Lacrosse and Sports Center at Clark Field, Whitaker Fields and Tennis Complex and the Recreational Sports Center). Confirming the Tuition Bill You must confirm the tuition bill, even when all courses will be covered in full by the STAP. If your attendance is not confirmed on the My Tuition Bill page by the due date, your course(s) will be canceled. If you are taking additional courses that are not covered by the STAP, you have to pay the tuition bill by the due date or all of your courses will be cancelled. Possible Additional Taxes Under current IRS regulations, the STAP is considered taxable income if you apply the benefit to a graduate course. You are responsible for paying these taxes. Tax amounts differ from student to student. STAP payments for undergraduate courses are not taxed, but if you apply the STAP to both grad and undergrad courses, all are taxable. Summer Sessions Covered course work can be taken during either the 12 week summer session, the 9 week summer session, or one of the 6 week summer terms. In all cases, employees requesting the STAP for a summer session course must apply for the program by 4:30 p.m. on the fourth class day of the second summer term. The shortened schedule for enrollment and tuition payment deadlines in the summer sessions means you might pay your tuition and fee bill before applying for the STAP. In this case, you'll receive a refund for the amount that's covered by the STAP. Refunds will be issued after the fourth class day of the summer term for which you are registered. Student Records Update Student records are separate from employee records. Ensure that your student records, especially mailing and e-mail addresses, are up-to-date. All correspondence related to the student accounting portion of the STAP is sent to your student record address. Because your records are separate, when you apply for admission to the university for the first time you're automatically assigned a new EID. To make sure that the Office of Admissions has everything it needs when making decisions, you should visit the EID Self-Service Tools as soon as possible to combine your two EIDs. Required Vaccinations Under state law, all students, including staff, admitted to attend UT Austin must provide documentation that they have had a meningococcal (bacterial meningitis) vaccine or booster dose during the five year period prior to but no later than ten days before the first day of the first semester they will enter the institution. You are exempt from this requirement if you will be age 22 or older on the first day of classes of the semester in which you are currently enrolling. For more information about this vaccine requirement, visit the University Health Services HealthyHorns website. Staff are not eligible for routine vaccines from UHS; however, staff with UT Select insurance are able to obtain preventive vaccines covered at 100%, without co-pay or deductible. Routine vaccines are available through your in-network primary care provider or several major pharmacy retailers. Career Management Performance Management Staff Tuition Assistance Program Competencies Human Resources Human Resource Service Center 1616 Guadalupe St., Suite 1.408 Austin, TX 78701 Phone: 512-471-4772 (HRSC) Phone (Toll Free): 800-687-4178 Fax: 512-232-3524 Website problems? Contact FAS Communications fascommweb@austin.utexas.edu Website Comment Form Facebook Google Translate/En Español Need Help? Find Your HR Representative HR Staff Directory Human Resource Service Center Workday UT Austin Home Emergency Information Site Policies Web Accessibility Policy Web Privacy Policy Adobe Reader © The University of Texas at Austin 2022