Skip Navigation California State University, Fullerton Site Menu Division of Student Affairs Career Center Main Navigation Students Show Extended Virtual Career Center Titan Connection: Jobs & Internships Workshops & Information Sessions Networking Career Fairs & Expos Resumes & Cover Letters Interviewing Titan Takeover: Career Exploration Program Career & Major Exploration Graduate & Professional School College Specific Resources Online Recorded Webinars I Am First Titan Career Ambassadors Resources for Diverse Populations Parker Dewey: Micro-Internships Alumni Show Extended Alumni Career Services Help a Titan Hire a Titan Recruiters Show Extended Post Positions On Titan Connection Recruiting Calendar On-Campus Interviewing (OCI) Connect With Students Employer Partnerships Learn About Our Diverse Students Titan Takeover: Career Exploration Program Parker Dewey: Micro-Internships Faculty & Staff Show Extended Meet your Career Specialist Career Center Commercial (4 minutes) Request a Workshop Get a Titan Connection Account Post a Position Faculty Development Certificate Workshops & Info Sessions Career Fairs & Expos Online Career Guide Reports Schedule Appointment About Us Blog The Career Center is dedicated to providing assistance to our students through a variety of virtual and online amenities. On this page you will find information, services, and tools to help you continue along your career development path. Titan Connection Select Here Appointments Select Here VMOCK Select Here Resume & Cover Letters Select Here Interviews Select Here Career and Major Exploration Select Here Career Assessment Select Here Graduate & Professional School Select Here Workshops & InfoSessions Select Here Video & Webinar Tutorials Select Here Are you a CSUF student looking for a part-time on-campus job, internship, full time career or volunteer opportunity? Titan Connection is your access to hundreds of these opportunities just for Titans and much more. To access Titan Connection click on "Find a Job". Find a Job Scheduled Apppointments: You can schedule a Virtual Career Counseling appointment Online through Titan Connection! Virtually meet with a College Career Specialist or Career Coach on various topics including: graduate school, interview preparation, major/career exploration and many more. Schedule your appointment now using Titan Connection. Note: When logging into Titan Connection, please select Calendar - Counseling Appointment from the left hand column and select, "New Appointment". Drive-Thru Appointments: No time for an appointment? No Problem, Please stop by for a quick 10 to 15 minute Resume/Cover Letter Review or Job Search. Instructions: Select the "Schedule Appointment" button below to login to Titan Connection On the Home Page, on the left-hand menu, select "Counseling Appointment" Select Drive-Thru Button You will be placed in a Queue (Waiting Room) When a Counselor is available, a Zoom Link will be provided for you to join a meeting (Zoom Link will appear on your screen within Titan Connection *NOTE: Drive-Thru Appointments are not intended for Academic Advising. Drive-Thru is on a first come, first serve basis. Please be patient as you wait in the Waiting Room for a Counselor to attend to you. Schedule Appointment your page does not support frames VMock: Your New Virtual Resume Assistant Resumes are a vital part of you landing your dream job. To get that standout resume, you now have access to a powerful and easy-to-use automated online resume review platform from VMock, your Virtual Resume Assistant. Get instant feedback from VMock right after submitting your resume. Analyze your resume anytime, anywhere, 24/7. So no need to wait for someone to have your resume reviewed. Using VMock is as simple as: Log in Upload your resume Get real-time analysis Review the results Make changes based on the analysis Play the Video below to see how VMock Works: Utilizing powerful machine learning algorithms and artificial intelligence, your resume gets benchmarked against thousands of resumes from top institutions from around the world. The software automatically analyzes your resume based on presentation, impact and skills and lets you know what areas you need to improve and how to do so. So don't let your dream job or internship pass you up. VMock is completely free for all Titans to use. So let VMock help you get that perfect resume! Click here to get started! The art of interviewing is a skill acquired through much practice. A strong interview demonstrates a candidate's ability to concisely verbalize how their education and professional background meet the position qualifications. This information is from <a href="https://www.youtube.com/embed/093uJY7oSU8">https://www.youtube.com/embed/093uJY7oSU8</a> Career and major exploration translates into doing research about yourself and relating that information to careers, majors, and industries. Starting your first semester, you can take steps to help you through the process. If you need help along the way, the Career Center is here! Assessments are tools that identify various areas including interests, values, skills and personality. Through this process students can begin to explore majors, jobs and career choices that are most appropriate for them. Strong Interest Inventory The Strong Interest Inventory is an assessment that will help students match their interests with potential majors and careers. $15 due before assessment review Assesses interests, revealing patterns Shows how interest patterns relate to occupations To Take the Strong Interest Inventory Schedule your Major/Career Exploration Phase I with a Career Specialist. Take the Online Assessment(s). The Career Center will provide you with a link to the Assessment via email after you have completed your pre-assessment appointment. Schedule your Assessment Results Review with a Career Specialist. Myers-Briggs Type Indicator (MBTI) The MBTI is an assessment that can provide insight into how your personality compares to others and your work preferences. Research shows that personality traits play a major role in job satisfaction and success. $15 due before assessment review Assesses personality Helps to better understand the relationship between preferences and an ideal work environment To Take the MBTI Schedule your Major/Career Exploration Phase I with a Career Development Specialist. Take the Online Assessment(s). The Career Center will provide you with a link to the Assessment via email after you have completed your pre-assessment appointment. Schedule your Assessment Results Review with the Career Development Specialist. Free Assessments Free assessments can help you discover more about yourself for career and major exploration. Please note: You will be leaving the Career Center website. The Career Center cannot verify the accuracy of these assessments. Interest Assessments Career Finder California Career Zone Interest Assessment Ferguson Interest Assessment Personality Assessments Human Metrics - Select the Jung Typology Test Personality Pathways - Click on “What’s Your Type” on the left margin. Values Assessments California Career Zone Values Assessment Skills Assessments California Career Zone Skills Assessment As a CSUF student, the Career Center offers various resources and strategies to help you navigate the graduate and professional school process. <p>Your browser does not support frames.</p> This site is maintained by Career Center. Last Published 4/27/22 To report problems or comments with this site, please contact careercenter@fullerton.edu. © California State University, Fullerton. All Rights Reserved. Web Accessibility CSUF is committed to ensuring equal accessibility to our users. Let us know about any accessibility problems you encounter using this website. We'll do our best to improve things and get you the information you need. Resources: Download Adobe Acrobat Reader Adobe Reader Download Word viewer, or download Excel viewer, or download PowerPoint viewer Microsoft Viewers Report An ATI Issue Accessible @ CSUF Version_4.3.5 This page uses javascript to help render elements, if you have problems please enable javascript. This page uses accordion styles which rely on javascript. You do not have javascript enabled, some functions will be disabled.