Skip to main content Google Tag Manager Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Prospective Newly Admitted Current Alumni Columbia University School of General Studies Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Admissions Educational Financing Academics Student Services About Undergraduate Admissions How to Apply Eligibility Application Deadlines and Decisions Information Sessions/Campus Visits Transfer Students Postbac Premed Admissions How to Apply Eligibility Application Deadlines and Decisions Information Sessions/Campus Visits Newly Admitted Students International Students Planning Day Placement Exams University-Wide Placement Exams U.S. Military Veterans International Dual Degree Programs Types of Financial Aid Institutional Scholarships Federal and State Grants Loans Private Scholarships and Grants Student Employment Financial Aid for Military Veterans Post-9/11 GI Bill® and the Yellow Ribbon Program Veterans Request for Certification Cost of Attendance Applying for Financial Aid Prospective Students Newly Admitted Students Current Students University Employees Postbac Premed Students Counseling Appointments Enrollment Update Form Student Account Refunds Undergraduate The Core Curriculum Degree Fulfillment Course Listings Majors and Concentrations Research Opportunities Study Abroad Academic Calendar Postbac Premed Program Curriculum & Courses Sample Schedule Course Listings Preparatory Coursework Previously Completed Coursework Glide Year Master’s Programs Academic Calendar Applying to Medical School General Admission Linkage Admission Linkage Specific Program Requirements Reapplicants Letters of Recommendation Academic Policies Registration Enrollment and Courseload Leaves and Withdrawals Academic Integrity and Standards Faculty of Arts and Sciences Undergraduate Announcements Postbac Premed Announcements Academic Advising Academic Resource Center Programs & Services Jumpstart Series Tutoring Peer Advising Campus Services Forms and Guides Graduation Health and Wellness Housing International Students Medical School Fair Planning Your Future Accelerated Master's Programs Fellowships and Research Premedical Clinical and Research Positions Student Life Leadership Development Multicultural & Social Justice Education Programs Student Organizations Upcoming Events Veterans Resources and Initiatives Leadership Mission History Statistics and Facts Notable Alumni University Policies Events Staff Directory Faculty News Press Coverage Media Inquiries School of General Studies You are here: Home Financial Aid Student Support Initiative Financial Aid Student Support Initiative The Preeminent College for Nontraditional Students The School of General Studies (GS) was founded in 1947 based on the simple idea that talented students should have access to a world-class education regardless of when they decide to attend college. Through this unique mission, the undergraduate classroom at Columbia became unlike any other in the Ivy League, and GS itself advanced to the forefront of innovation, responding to societal change and pioneering educational modalities that influence higher education nationally and around the world. As it was 75 years ago, the world today is in need of continued excellence and innovation in the face of contemporary challenges. Under President Lee C. Bollinger’s leadership, and for the first time in the history of Columbia, the University has launched a fundraising initiative singularly focused on improving financial aid for all students. As the only undergraduate college for nontraditional students in the Ivy League, GS is in a unique position to take advantage of this unprecedented opportunity and renew its commitment to attracting, educating, and supporting the best and brightest nontraditional students. Our goal is to raise $60 million—almost doubling our current endowment—over the next four years. Giving Opportunities Top Priorities With these additional funds, we will address many of the challenges that our community faces including the increasing competition from peer institutions to attract nontraditional students, the financial barriers and significant loan debt many of our students assume, and expanding and innovating programming in response to societal change. Preeminent College for Nontraditional Students Educational Access and Equity Innovation and Societal Transformation Who It's For Scholarship support through endowment and current-use gifts can bring the dream of earning a degree at GS within reach for many of our students. Below are just a few students and alumni who have received financial support during their time with us. Jarrell Daniels PALS Scholar Ivan Dominguez '21PBPM NY Medical College student Abby Edwards '21GS Dual Degree Alumna Randee Howard '21GS GS Alumna Chris Thompson '21GS GS Alumnus Larry J. Lawrence Match Fund Larry Lawrence ‘69GS, ‘71BUS has given the Student Support Initiative an incredible start with his deep generosity. Larry has agreed to lead our efforts as the alumni chair of this initiative, continuing a legacy of support for GS that goes back 35 years. With his partnership, and with the unwavering commitment of our alumni and friends, this initiative will open doors and transform lives for our GS students. Through the Larry J. Lawrence Match Fund, Larry has made a commitment of $5M to match scholarship gifts to the School. Endowed gifts between $250,000 and $500,000 paid over four years qualify to be matched dollar-for-dollar with Larry’s gift. The power of the match turning $5M into $10M to reach $60M. Ensuring Columbia GS’s Place as the Preeminent College for Nontraditional Students $30 million in new funds will allow Columbia GS to create endowed and current-use scholarships that serve to support the full array of exceptional nontraditional students who seek out GS as the launching pad for their future endeavors. This commitment will ensure our ability to continue providing the preeminent nontraditional undergraduate educational experience, and in turn, will extend and enhance our position nationally and around the world. Check back soon to learn more about the support we're proving to our students. Expanding Educational Access and Equity $20 million in new endowment and current-use funds will be used to expand educational access and opportunities that Columbia GS provides to its unique student body—many of whom seek out GS after experiencing difficult circumstances that may have prevented them from excelling academically in the past. Check back soon to learn more about how we're expanding access and equity to higher education. Innovation and Societal Transformation With $10 million in initial funding, Columbia GS can continue its tradition of innovation by building new programs and creating new educational pathways designed for nontraditional students. GS has always met this challenge and responded with innovative programs that expand opportunity, create access, and push the boundaries of how we think about elite education. Check back soon to learn about the strides we are making in creating innovative programing. Your Impact Contributions to the GS endowment can have an immediate impact on the lives and success of GS students. Learn more about our giving opportunities below. Giving Opportunities Admissions Undergraduate Admissions Postbac Premed Admissions Newly Admitted Students U.S. Military Veterans International Dual Degree Programs Educational Financing Types of Financial Aid Financial Aid for Military Veterans Cost of Attendance Applying for Financial Aid Counseling Appointments Enrollment Update Form Student Account Refunds Academics Undergraduate Postbac Premed Program Applying to Medical School Academic Policies Faculty of Arts and Sciences Student Services Undergraduate Announcements Postbac Premed Announcements Academic Advising Academic Resource Center Campus Services Forms and Guides Graduation Health and Wellness Housing International Students Medical School Fair Planning Your Future Premedical Clinical and Research Positions Student Life Veterans Resources and Initiatives About Leadership Mission History Statistics and Facts Notable Alumni University Policies Events Staff Directory Faculty News Press Coverage Media Inquiries Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close