Skip to main content Skip to main content Degree Programs Perkins Chapel Bridwell Library Skip to main content Connect Connect Visit Visit Apply Apply Give Give Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. Navigate Search Skip to main content Admission Connect Connect Request Information Meet the Team Visit Campus Visit Campus Virtual Visits Perkins Comes to You Apply Apply Application Steps Application Submission Dates Degrees at a Glance International Students Affording Seminary Affording Seminary Scholarships Financial Literacy Bursar's Office Cost Summary Admit Portal ☰ Perkins School of Theology Perkins Admission Affording Seminary Affording Seminary A Perkins education is a valuable investment in developing your call to serve. The Office of Enrollment Management team is ready to work with you to make your seminary experience affordable with scholarships, need-based grants and loans. We suggest that you also complete the Free Application for Federal Student Aid to determine your qualifications for assistance from other sources. Additional resources and tips on managing your educational and personal expenses also are offered through our Financial Literacy Program. When you apply for admission, you are automatically considered for financial aid. You will receive information about your financial aid package soon after notification of your acceptance to Perkins. For more information on financial aid at Perkins, contact Christina Rhodes, Financial Aid Coordinator, at 214-768-3411 or csrhodes@smu.edu. Affording Perkins 100% Percentage of master's degree-seeking students with demonstrated need receiving financial aid $12,200 Average annual award granted to full-time, degree-seeking students 2 Weeks Time it takes to receive notification of your financial aid package once your completed application is submitted How will I pay for my education? Information on financial assistance, payment options and ways to manage your money. Scholarship Opportunities Bursar's Office Cost Summary Financial Literacy "My decision to [go to Perkins] was partly based on the financial support that I will receive. I wanted to make sure that I could manage my debt." —Bryce Blank (Master of Divinity, Class of 2022) An Academy for the Whole Church in the Whole World Prepare to Serve Our groundbreaking Intern Program allows students to transform classroom knowledge into actual practical experience before graduation. Diverse Community We believe cross-cultural immersion experiences best teach students to build intercultural relationships, resolve cultural conflicts and guide intercultural ventures. Academic Excellence The combination of courses taught by renowned scholars with a diverse list of degree programs best prepares students for a wide variety of roles in ministry. Connect Visit Apply Contact Us Maps and Directions Legal Disclosures © SMU Perkins School of Theology, PO Box 750133, Dallas, TX 75275-0133 214-768-8436 or 1-888-843-6564 twitter facebook youtube share