Workplace Reimagined  - University of Houston Skip to main content Restrict my search to Human Resources Submit Close Login to AccessUH Give to UH Search Human Resources About HR Careers Careers HR Service Center I-9 and eVerify FML Employee Verification Prior State Service CHRI Request Employees Staff Scholarships New Employees Foreign National Employees Graduate Students Temporary Student Employees Employee Recognition Program HR Departments Benefits Family and Medical Leave Act Information ERS Annual Enrollment Benefits at a Glance Benefits Updates Employee Assistance Program ERS Annual Enrollment - TexFlex Insurance Retirement Worker's Compensation at UH Benefits FAQs Compensation HR Business Partners Reduction in Force Employee Terminations Payroll Services Talent Acquisition Why Work for UH? Staff Employment NHO Request CHRI Request Talent Development Virtual Training LinkedIn Learning Policies SAM HR Policies MAPP HR Policies Common Policies & Resources Administrative Responsibility ACA E-Verify FLSA Regulations Update Fitness Release Time and Wellness Leave Policy Workplace Posters PASS Navigation HR Communication HR Online Resource Guide Overview CLICK HERE to review the Alternative Work Arrangements (Interim) Policy How to Request an Alternative Work Arrangement Expand AllCollapse All Step 1 Complete the required A.W.A. training for your role. After you complete the training, save the “Quiz Pass” email confirmation as your proof of completion. Alternative Work Arrangements Training for Individual Contributors HH2209 – Alternative Work Policy – Staff Alternative Work Arrangements Training for Managers and Supervisors (for staff members with direct reports only) HH2208 – Alternative Work Policy – Managers To request in enrollment, log in to P.A.S.S. via AccessUH and request enrollment for the correct course number. The training will be available in TAP the next day for your completion. Review the training in its entirety and complete the quiz to receive credit for the course. Step 2 Complete an A.W.A. Justification Form and submit to your immediate supervisor to begin the approval process. Step 3 *This step will be available in P.A.S.S. beginning March 30, 2022. Complete A.W.A. Request in P.A.S.S. and attach the approved A.W.A. Justification Form in the Attachments section. The attached form must include all required signatures. Submit the completed A.W.A. Request in P.A.S.S. to your immediate supervisor for approval. Step 4 After the P.A.S.S. request is approved, you may begin working your A.W.A. on the approved start date! Forms and Resources How to Sign & Save the A.W.A. Justification Form A.W.A. Justification Form How to Request an A.W.A. in P.A.S.S. Approval Process Workflows Hybrid Requests Approval Process Telecommuting/Remote (100% off-campus) Requests Approval Process Assistance with Adobe How to Update Adobe Acrobat How to Install Adobe Acrobat How to Setup the VPN Windows MAC UH Information Security IT Solutions and Assistance Resources for Supervisors and Managers Determining Employee Eligibilty Tool How to Approve an Employee's A.W.A. in P.A.S.S. Managing Alternative Work Arrangement Guide Managing Alternative Work Arrangements Resource Page Training Resources CATALYST Courses Take Control of Your Productivity – Virtual Edition Do you have items on your to do list that never seem to come off? Does your calendar start off empty in the morning, but end up full before lunch? Can’t remember the last time you didn’t have to eat lunch at your desk? Take control of your time, no matter what schedule you work or what location you’re at, with techniques and tools from this one hour workshop. Click HERE to Enroll! Communicating with Virtual Teams Participants in this workshop will learn and share best practices for communicating with their hybrid teams, including how to minimize distractions, keep a steady flow of information, and maintain strong relationships in a flexible workplace. Click HERE to Enroll! Thriving in a Hybrid Work Environment Splitting time between a home office and an on-campus office comes with a unique set of challenges. In this one hour workshop, participants will learn strategies to maintain productivity and stability in both environments, and how to transition fluidly between the two. Click HERE to Enroll! faqs Expand AllCollapse All Is this policy for all university of Houston’s staff, faculty and students? This policy only applies to staff employees and not to faculty or student workers. What do I need to do to request an alternative work arrangement? A staff employee seeking an alternative work arrangment must submit to his/her immediate supervisor a written request. The request must include a proposal of an alternative work arrangement, proposed methods for the completion of all assigned tasks and job responsibilities related to that alternative work arrangement, and means of conducting job-related communications with required individuals. What do I do if my version of Adobe does not allow me to create a digital signature? How to Update Adobe Acrobat How to Install Adobe Acrobat For additional assistance with Adobe, contact your department's IT staff or UIT. Does this policy allow remote work outside of the state of Texas? The off-campus Alternative Work Location for any alternative work arrangement must be located in the State of Texas and also must be reasonably close enough to the University campus so, if necessary, the employee can be physically present at their Regularly Assigned Place of Employment on the same day as needed. Who can approve the alternative work arrangement? Approval of an alternative work arrangement will be considered by the employee's immediate supervisor in conjunction with additional management approval(s) as delegated by the responsible Vice President. Who will be responsible for any loss or damage to University equipment and operational costs (i.e. cell phone, maintenance, additional expenses) during the alternative work arrangement? The University is not liable for damages to employee-owned equipment being used as part of an alternative work arrangement. The employee is liable for any equipment lost, stolen, or damaged, including negligence, misuse, or abuse. The University is also not liable for operating costs, home maintenance, or any other incidental costs (e.g. utilities, telephone, insurance) arising out of or relating to the employee’s alternative work arrangement. What type of software and internet will be required during an alternative work arrangement? Employee must use only University approved software for connecting with the University’s network (VPN) from their Alternate Work Location and must always run current anti-virus software and follow University security rules, copyright laws, and procedures. Employee is responsible for providing work space, telephone, printing, networking and/or internet capabilities at their Alternate Work Location. Internet access must be via DSL, Cable Modem, or a current bandwidth network. How often will the alternative work arrangement need to be reviewed and/or reassessed? Arrangements for an alternative work must be reviewed at least annually to assess continued feasibility in light of any reduction in the employee's productivity, changes in work needs or service to students or internal or external customers. How can the alternative work arrangement be discontinued? The University, including the employee’s immediate supervisor can discontinue the employee’s participation in an alternative work arrangement at any time and for any reason. Employees may also request an alternative work arrangement be terminated by providing their immediate supervisor with ten business days’ written notice. Where can I find the Alternative Work Arrangement policy? Click here to view MAPP 02.04.10 - Alternative Work Arrangements (Interim) Policy University of Houston Houston, Texas 77204 (713) 743-2255 A–Z Index Academic Calendar Campus Carry Policy Campus Map Career Opportunities Directory Emergency Information Get Help Human Resources Library Mental Health Resources Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Office of the President Parking Report Copyright Infringement Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness Open Records/Public Information Act Texas Veterans Portal Tuition & Fees UH System Virtual Tour ©2022 University of Houston. All rights reserved. Report a problem with this page Texas.gov Texas Homeland Security TRAIL Fraud Reporting Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Linking Notice Privacy Notice Open Records/Public Information Act Institutional Résumé Required Reports Electronic & Information Resources Accessibility Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness University Policies