Skip to main content Skip to main navigation Academic Calendar Committee Menu Baylor>Calendar Committee Calendar Committee The Calendar Committee is appointed by the Faculty Senate and approved by the Administration. They are charged with recommending the academic calendar to be followed each year. They are responsible for a calendar that includes the approved number of class days, final examination schedule and university holidays (when they affect the class day count). They also work with other groups to set dates for Baylor Homecoming, Family Weekend and Diadeloso. Dr. Ronald Morgan is chair of the committee for 2021-2022. Questions about the calendar may be referred to Dr. Morgan. For a complete list of Calendar Committee members, please visit the University Committees - Calendar Committee webpage. Calendar Committee Baylor Events Calendar Homecoming Parents Weekend Diadeloso Show More General Information Colleges, Schools, Libraries & Research Admissions Administration Gateways For... About Baylor Anonymous Reporting Athletics Ask Baylor Bookstore Calendar Campus Map Directory Give Light Give to Baylor Illuminate Mental Health Resources News Pro Futuris Report It Search Social Media Title IX Baylor Libraries College of Arts & Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work George W. Truett Theological Seminary Graduate School Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Louise Herrington School of Nursing Research at Baylor University Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Engineering & Computer Science School of Music More Academics Undergraduate Admissions goBAYLOR Graduate Admissions Baylor Law School Admissions Social Work Graduate Programs George W. Truett Theological Seminary Admissions Online Graduate Professional Education Virtual Tour Visit Campus Annual Fire Safety and Security Notice Athletics Human Resources Marketing and Communications Office of General Counsel Office of the President Office of the Provost Operations, Finance & Administration Senior Administration Student Life University Advancement Baylor Alumni Faculty & Staff Online Graduate Professional Education Parents Prospective Faculty & Staff Prospective Students Students Copyright © Baylor® University. All rights reserved. Legal Disclosures. Baylor University • Waco, Texas 76798 • 1-800-229-5678 Baylor Events Calendar Homecoming Parents Weekend Diadeloso