Skip to main content Toggle subitems Main navigation Meet Princeton Toggle sub-items In Service of Humanity Facts & Figures History Honors & Awards Contact Us Visit Us Our Faculty Our Students Our Alumni Our Staff Our Leadership Academic Freedom and Free Expression Academics Toggle sub-items Studying at Princeton Library Areas of Study Humanities Social Sciences Engineering Natural Sciences Advising Academic Calendar Course Tools Learning Abroad Career Development Continuing Education Innovative Learning Research Toggle sub-items Engineering & Applied Science Humanities Natural Sciences Social Sciences Interdisciplinary Approach Dean for Research Office External Partnerships Facilities & Labs One Community Toggle sub-items Lifelong Connections Student Life Arts & Culture Athletics Living in Princeton, N.J. Housing & Dining Activities & Organizations Cultural & Affinity Groups Health & Wellness Religious Life Serving the Public Good Families Admission & Aid Toggle sub-items Affordable for All About Financial Aid Current Undergraduate Financial Aid Undergraduate Admission Graduate Admission For International Students Utility menu News Events Work at Princeton Services & Resources Work-Life Balance Links for Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Giving Search Sites & People × Share on Facebook Share on Twitter Share on LinkedIn Email Print Three Princeton faculty members awarded NEH grants to support advanced research in the humanities Jamie Saxon, Office of Communications Jan. 12, 2022, 2:07 p.m. A major international project based at Princeton to digitize a “lost archive” from an 18th-century convent and two faculty book projects have received research grants from the National Endowment for the Humanities (NEH) in a round of grants to humanities projects nationwide announced on Jan. 11. Christina Lee (left), associate professor of Spanish and Portuguese; Ekaterina Pravilova, the Rosengarten Chair of Modern and Contemporary History and professor of history; and Wendy Warren, associate professor of history. Photos by Sameer A. Khan/Fotobuddy and Denise Applewhite, Office of Communications Christina Lee, associate professor of Spanish and Portuguese at Princeton, and Cristina Martinez-Juan, research fellow of Philippine Studies at SOAS University of London, have been awarded a $480,000 grant from the NEH/AHRC New Directions for Digital Scholarship in Cultural Institutions program, a joint initiative between NEH and the U.K.’s Arts and Humanities Research Council to advance digital scholarship at museums, libraries and archives. An anonymous photo of the San Pablo Library, circa 1880. The original photographic print is kept at the San Agustin Museum and Archives (the former San Pablo Library), Intramuros, Manila. Their project, titled “The Library of the Convent of San Pablo (Manila, 1762),” will digitize, transcribe, translate and contextualize a multi-language collection of more than 1,500 rare manuscripts, maps and early printed materials that were taken by the British in the 18th century from the Convent of San Pablo in Manila, Philippines, and dispersed throughout the Philippines, United States and United Kingdom. Princeton University Library (PUL) will administer the grant, with Assistant University Librarian for Research Services Anu Vedantham as librarian co-director. The Digital PUL platform will feature the digital objects created by the project. Staff in several PUL units will assist with metadata support, outreach and discoverability. The other two Princeton grants were awarded to faculty members in the Department of History for their scholarship and writing: Ekaterina Pravilova, the Rosengarten Chair of Modern and Contemporary History and professor of history, received a $60,000 grant for research and writing “Russian Truths: Knowledge and Authenticity in the Age of Reforms (1860s–1917),” about the scientific standards of knowledge, authenticity and truth in late 19th-century Russia. Wendy Warren, associate professor of history, received a $55,000 grant for research and writing “The Carceral Colony: Prisons and the Making of America,” a social history of imprisonment in colonial North America. The NEH awarded $24.7 million to 208 humanities projects nationwide to support innovative digital projects for the public, humanities initiatives on college campuses and infrastructure projects at cultural institutions. “These NEH grants will support educators and scholars in enriching our understanding of the past and enable cultural institutions from across the country to expand their offerings, resources and public programming, both in person and online,” said NEH Acting Chair Adam Wolfson. “We look forward to the many new insights and discoveries that these 208 exemplary projects will make possible.” Created in 1965 as an independent federal agency, the National Endowment for the Humanities supports research and learning in history, literature, philosophy and other areas of the humanities by funding selected, peer-reviewed proposals from around the nation. Related Stories Four Princeton faculty members awarded NEH grants Read more Pravilova explores the forces that shaped Imperial Russia Read more African Digital Humanities Project at Princeton awarded over $600,000 in two NEH grants Read more Four Princeton faculty members win Guggenheim Fellowships Read more The humanities 'come home' to Princeton for a 50th-anniversary fete Read more Steward named director of Princeton University Art Museum Read more Women's History Month: Princeton University Library collections Read more View All News Contact links Contact Us Accessibility Advanced People Search Media Inquiries Website Feedback Visiting links Plan a Visit Maps & Shuttles Varsity Athletics Giving to Princeton Academic links Library Academic Calendar Student Links Faculty & Staff Links Footer social media Facebook Twitter Instagram Snapchat LinkedIn YouTube Social Media Directory Equal Opportunity and Nondiscrimination at Princeton University: Princeton University believes that commitment to principles of fairness and respect for all is favorable to the free and open exchange of ideas, and the University seeks to reach out as widely as possible in order to attract the ablest individuals as students, faculty, and staff. In applying this policy, the University is committed to nondiscrimination on the basis of personal beliefs or characteristics such as political views, religion, national or ethnic origin, race, color, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity or expression, pregnancy, age, marital or domestic partnership status, veteran status, disability, genetic information and/or other characteristics protected by applicable law in any phase of its education or employment programs or activities. In addition, pursuant to Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 and supporting regulations, Princeton does not discriminate on the basis of sex in the education programs or activities that it operates; this extends to admission and employment. Inquiries about the application of Title IX and its supporting regulations may be directed to the Assistant Secretary for Civil Rights, Office for Civil Rights, U.S. Department of Education or to the University's Sexual Misconduct/Title IX Coordinator. See Princeton’s full Equal Opportunity Policy and Nondiscrimination Statement. Princeton University Princeton, NJ 08544 Operator: (609) 258-3000 © 2022 The Trustees of Princeton University Subfooter links Copyright Infringement Privacy Notice