Global Navigation ISU News Store Contact Us Offices Iowa State University Hello Visitor! Log In or Register Home Children and Youth by mollyd | Wed, 04/20/2011 - 14:13 Connecting Children and Youth ISU Extension 4-H Youth Development empowers children (K – 3) and youth (4 – 12) to reach their full potential by working and learning in partnership with caring adults. 4-H positive youth development programming provides opportunities for young people to become competent, caring, contributing, confident, and connected citizens with character. Through fun and educational programs that foster youth-adult partnerships over extended periods of time, young people meet their development needs of belonging, mastery, independence, and generosity while strengthening life skills such as communication, leadership, and citizenship. Youth: Looking for information on one of these topics? Iowa State University Extension 4-H Youth Development has Web pages of information on: Explore 4-H Joining 4-H 4-H Project Hot Sheets 4-H Camp Iowa State Fair 4-H Clubs 4-H Afterschool Clover Kids Iowa Americorps State of Promise Operation Military Kids E-SET Scholarships 4-H'ers in action 4-H TV – Youth sharing stories through video, audio and photography. Iowa 4-H Tech Team – Interested in technology? Join the team! Fun activities for kids 4-H Clover Kid Activities - Activities for children in kindergarten through third grade 4-H Online Games - 8 fun games to play! Connect with other teens Iowa 4-H Youth Conference Iowa 4-H Center Camp Join Studio 4-H—Make your own videos through this virtual club ISU collegiate 4-H facebook Science, technology and math clubs in Iowa Extension Video Ricochet youth leadership program Ricochet is an extreme leadership adventure program targeted at middle school students. It challenges youth to step outside their comfort zone and strengthen their skills. See how Clinton County is using this program. Adults helping children and youth The mission of the Iowa 4-H Program is to empower youth to reach their full potential working and learning in partnership with caring adults. Adults: Looking for information on one of these topics? Iowa State University Extension 4-H Youth Development and Families has Web pages of information on: 4-H – Partner opportunities 4-H – Volunteer opportunities Connecting Learning & Living CYFAR Child Care Provider Education Just in Time Parenting Nutrition Education for Youth (EFNEP) Science of Parenting Strengthening Families Program Connect with other adults Science of Parenting blog Science of Parenting podcast or subscribe to the podcast in iTunes Online course 4-H Club Volunteer training – Adult volunteers learn how to help youth reach their full potential Share | Select LanguageEnglishSpanish Publications & Materials See these related publications available on the Extension Store: 4-H Project Hot Sheets Developmental Stages Talk to an expert Locate your county youth coordinator Locate a family specialist for your county Related Content Science, Engineering, and Technology for Youth on eXtension.org Related News Subscribe to RSS headline updates from: Powered by FeedBurner See all Children and Youth news At Work for Iowa All Ages, Interests, Talents Find Niche in 4-H Robotics See all "How Extension Helps" articles Primary Links Block Home Disaster Recovery Events Conference Planning Statewide Calendar Upcoming Conferences Educational Areas 4-H Youth Development Agriculture and Natural Resources Community & Economic Development Human Sciences About Us About ISU Extension County Services Faculty and Staff Directory County Services Finance Finance Diversity and Civil Rights Jobs Leadership Team Office of the Vice President Professional Development Program Development and Evaluation Iowa State University Extension and Outreach, (800) 262-3804, 2150 Beardshear Hall, Ames, IA 50011-2031 Copyright © 2022 Iowa State University | Contact Us | Policies | State & National Extension Partners | For Staff | Website Log In