Skip to main content Skip to main navigation Graduate School Menu About Graduate School Calendar Staff Directory J. Larry Lyon Beth Allison Barr Steve G. Driese Christopher M. Rios Sheila Dooley Sandra B. Harman Anna E. Henderson Tosha A. Hendrickson Eric Hooley Alanna D. Martinez Dana Matthews Alana A. Schaeper Laura Sepanski 2020 Annual Report Admissions COVID-19 Admissions Updates How To Apply Apply Now International: English Proficiency International: Required Documents FAQs Admissions FAQs Admitted Students Additional Information for Admitted International Students Graduate Student Housing Community Moving to Waco Admitted Student FAQs New Graduate Student Orientation 2022 Submitting Test Scores Degrees & Programs Graduate Catalog Baylor Colleges and Schools Benefits & Financial Support Health Insurance Benefits Childbirth & Adoption Short-Term Leave Baylor Funding Opportunities Student Resources Graduate School Deadlines Campus Resources Professional Development All Programs and Workshops On-Campus Research Doctoral Programs On-Campus Master's Programs Online Professional Programs Awards and Funding Opportunities Summer Dissertation Fellowship Doctoral Administrative Fellows Baptist Scholars International Roundtable (BSIR) Baptist College and University Scholars Outstanding Dissertation Award Outstanding Graduate Student Instructor Award Outstanding Graduate Research Award BEAR Grants Travel Awards McNair Doctoral Fellowship Postdoctoral Teaching Fellowship External Funding Resources Dr. Steven G. Driese Outstanding Grant Proposal Award Completing Your Degree Dissertation & Thesis Resources Requirements for Graduation Completing Your Degree FAQs Faculty & Staff Resources General Resources English for Academic Purposes Program GPS Faculty Development Workshops Graduate Council Graduate Curriculum Committee Graduate Faculty Rights and Membership Proposing a New Graduate Degree Search Grad Faculty Graduate Student Payroll Graduate Program Directors GPD Listing Program Director Statement Resources for Directors Recruitment and Admissions Recruiting Funds Slate Log In Baylor>Graduate School>Benefits & Financial Support>Childbirth & Adoption Childbirth & Adoption Accommodation Purpose In recognition of the challenges of balancing the demands of graduate study and parenting a new child, this policy aims to improve the environment for Graduate Assistant (GAs) student-parents by addressing the conflicts and issues that may arise as the two goals of advanced education and parenthood intersect. Childbirth/Adoption Accommodation Policy The goal is to maintain the GA's full-time status in his or her academic program and to promote academic progress with reasonable adjustments to be negotiated within the department. The policy provides accommodation to ease the new parent's return to full participation in classes, research, teaching, or clinical training by reducing required stipend duties and offering appropriate flexibility for coursework, exam, and advisor deadlines. The success of this policy depends upon full and open communication and cooperation among the student, the faculty advisor, the Graduate Program Director, the department chair, and the Dean of the Graduate School. Approval of Childbirth/Adoption requires careful consideration by the Graduate Program Director in consultation with the Graduate School to ensure that the implications for academic progress, visa status, loan eligibility and deferment, and other issues have been thoroughly examined in advance. Eligibility Male or female parents with Graduate Assistant status (GA) of a newly born baby or a newly adopted child are eligible for this accommodation. In the case of two graduate student parents, there would be a limit of one accommodation per family. It is expected that the accommodation will be used only once during the student's time at Baylor, but special situations may be negotiated on a case by case basis. Options Students may choose between two options: (A) Full-time leave for half a term or semester. This option allows students to be fully relieved of their assistantship responsibilities during any period of weeks equalling no more than half the term. (B) Half-time leave for the full term or semester. This option allows students to perform half their assistantship responsibilities (roughly 10 hours) for the entire term. This option is intended to allow students to continue teaching if desired. The GA will receive full funding during the leave, will continue to remain fully-enrolled, and will continue to be eligible for Baylor Graduate Student Health Insurance. The GA should be given clear beginning and ending dates for the leave. If needed, the Graduate Program Director may apply to the Graduate School to assist with funding a replacement graduate student for an amount up to the half semester period at full stipend or the semester period at half-stipend. Any enhancement funds awarded by the Graduate School will be continued as usual at full amounts. Procedures As early as possible, students anticipating childbirth or adoption should discuss their intent to apply for Childbirth/Adoption Accommodation with their faculty advisor and Graduate Program Director (GPD). Together the GPD and student will complete the following process: Step One: Students will consult with their GPDs for the time range of the leave (up to six weeks). Students will provide the GPD and the Graduate School (graduate_records@baylor.edu) with documentation verifying pregnancy and/or adoption. Step Two: Student or GPD will submit the online application form at least one month prior to the anticipated start date. Once approved, the student and GPD will be notified. During the semester of accommodation, the department will pay the student for work served as normal. Any enhancement funds (fellowships) will be paid in the usual ways, without interruption or deduction. Step Three: Additional Graduate School Support. The GPD may request from the Graduate School funding to cover the hiring of another graduate student to replace the accommodated student for the period. The request for additional funding is made through the form linked in step two. The Graduate School will award an amount up to the amounts outlined in the policy. All correspondence to the Graduate School regarding the childbirth and adoption accommodation should be directed to Dr. Chris Rios and/or Alana Schaeper. Other procedural and policy considerations In most cases, the student will continue full time study, with accommodations on deadlines for coursework, exams and other academic work to be negotiated within the department. This will allow international students to maintain their visa status and for all students to maintain financial aid agreements requiring full time enrollment status. During the period of accommodation, the student should remain enrolled so as to be eligible for full-time graduate student benefits including housing, health-insurance, student life center use, and library privileges. As a matter of policy, paid Childbirth/Adoption Accommodation is limited to 6 weeks. However, special considerations that require an unpaid extended accommodation will be addressed on a case-by-case basis in consultation with the GPD and the Graduate School. Examples could include complications of pregnancy, with birth, or post-natal complications and may involve the negotiation of modified duties between the student and GPD. Those graduate students supported by fellowships external to Baylor must adhere to the rules of the granting agency in regard to leaves from work. If the granting agency defers to university policy regarding paid childbirth leave, the leave will be paid by the grant. If the granting agency requires suspension of payment during the leave period, the student will be eligible for substitute payment from the graduate school. This policy is intended for Graduate Assistants (GAs). If the GPD would like to request accommodation for a non-GA, please reach out directly to the Graduate School with the request. Benefits & Financial Support Health Insurance Benefits Childbirth & Adoption Short-Term Leave Baylor Funding Opportunities Baylor Graduate School Baylor Graduate School Morrison Hall, Suite 200 One Bear Place #97264 Waco, TX 76798-7264 (254) 710-3588 (254) 710-3870 GraduateAdmissions@baylor.edu Live Chat ApplyVisitMake a Gift General Information Colleges, Schools, Libraries & Research Admissions Administration Gateways For... About Baylor Anonymous Reporting Athletics Ask Baylor Bookstore Calendar Campus Map Directory Give Light Give to Baylor Illuminate Mental Health Resources News Pro Futuris Report It Search Social Media Title IX Baylor Libraries College of Arts & Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work George W. Truett Theological Seminary Graduate School Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Louise Herrington School of Nursing Research at Baylor University Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Engineering & Computer Science School of Music More Academics Undergraduate Admissions goBAYLOR Graduate Admissions Baylor Law School Admissions Social Work Graduate Programs George W. Truett Theological Seminary Admissions Online Graduate Professional Education Virtual Tour Visit Campus Annual Fire Safety and Security Notice Athletics Human Resources Marketing and Communications Office of General Counsel Office of the President Office of the Provost Operations, Finance & Administration Senior Administration Student Life University Advancement Baylor Alumni Faculty & Staff Online Graduate Professional Education Parents Prospective Faculty & Staff Prospective Students Students Copyright © Baylor® University. All rights reserved. Legal Disclosures. Baylor University • Waco, Texas 76798 • 1-800-229-5678 About Graduate School Calendar Staff Directory J. Larry Lyon Beth Allison Barr Steve G. Driese Christopher M. Rios Sheila Dooley Sandra B. Harman Anna E. Henderson Tosha A. Hendrickson Eric Hooley Alanna D. Martinez Dana Matthews Alana A. Schaeper Laura Sepanski 2020 Annual Report Admissions COVID-19 Admissions Updates How To Apply Apply Now International: English Proficiency International: Required Documents FAQs Admissions FAQs Admitted Students Additional Information for Admitted International Students Graduate Student Housing Community Moving to Waco Admitted Student FAQs New Graduate Student Orientation 2022 Submitting Test Scores Degrees & Programs Graduate Catalog Baylor Colleges and Schools Benefits & Financial Support Health Insurance Benefits Childbirth & Adoption Short-Term Leave Baylor Funding Opportunities Student Resources Graduate School Deadlines Campus Resources Professional Development All Programs and Workshops On-Campus Research Doctoral Programs On-Campus Master's Programs Online Professional Programs Awards and Funding Opportunities Summer Dissertation Fellowship Doctoral Administrative Fellows Baptist Scholars International Roundtable (BSIR) Baptist College and University Scholars Outstanding Dissertation Award Outstanding Graduate Student Instructor Award Outstanding Graduate Research Award BEAR Grants Travel Awards McNair Doctoral Fellowship Postdoctoral Teaching Fellowship External Funding Resources Dr. Steven G. Driese Outstanding Grant Proposal Award Completing Your Degree Dissertation & Thesis Resources Requirements for Graduation Completing Your Degree FAQs Faculty & Staff Resources General Resources English for Academic Purposes Program GPS Faculty Development Workshops Graduate Council Graduate Curriculum Committee Graduate Faculty Rights and Membership Proposing a New Graduate Degree Search Grad Faculty Graduate Student Payroll Graduate Program Directors GPD Listing Program Director Statement Resources for Directors Recruitment and Admissions Recruiting Funds Slate Log In