<form runat="server"></form>
<WebPartPages:SPWebPartManager runat="server"/>
 Skip to Main Content HBS Home About Academic Programs Alumni Faculty & Research Baker Library Giving Harvard Business Review Initiatives News Recruit Map / Directions MBA FAQ Introduce Yourself Blog Visit Apply Academic Experience Entrepreneurship Student Life Career Path Admissions Financial Aid …→ Harvard Business School→ MBA→ Student Life Student Life Activities, Government & Clubs Campus People Community Values The First-Year Experience The Second Year Experience The HBS Community → People→ Perspectives Perspectives Ramya Sundar MBA 2022 Video Video Home Region Chennai, India Undergrad Education National Institute of Technology, Tiruchirappalli (NIT Trichy), 2015 Previous Experience Procter & Gamble HBS Activities Section J treasurer, Consulting for Impact Club co-president “I want to live a life in which I stay stubbornly attached to my core values and do things I truly believe in.” Why did you choose this path at this point in time? My learning curve had plateaued at my previous job. Choosing to do an MBA was part of the promise I made myself to get out of my comfort zone! Coming to HBS is like... ...a roller coaster ride! My journey to HBS has truly been one of a kind – from missed visa appointments to extended checks at customs, getting here was not the most easy thing to do due to COVID. But life on campus is definitely worth all that effort. The campus is stunningly beautiful! Having been in a tropical country all my life, it felt great to experience fall and snow for the first time here. Being part of the HBS community is like... ...being part of a truly global community. I’ve met some incredible people here at HBS. Even though social interactions have been impacted to a certain extent due to COVID this year, we have found our own ways to connect. I feel grateful that I have been able to form genuine, deep relationships with people that I truly look up to. As a kid, what did you want to be when you grew up? A teacher – I looked up to some of my teachers and professors throughout my time at school and university. They have been really instrumental in shaping the way I look at the world today. I realized the influence that a teacher can have on young minds, and wanted to do that myself someday. I’ve not ruled out this option for me just yet – will try to get back to academia at some point in the future! What is your favorite childhood memory? Pongal, the harvest festival – Every year, we gather together as a family to celebrate the start of spring. It’s a 4 day affair with festivities ranging from cooking different varieties of Pongal (a rice dish) to cleaning up the house, getting rid of the old and bringing in the new. Who is one person from your life that you admire the most today? My dad – He is a strong feminist. He taught me to believe from a very young age that both men and women can be equals even if the society around me did not think so. A lot of what I have been able to achieve today is due to his confidence in me! What’s the best thing about your home town? The food! Chennai has an unbelievable variety of options when it come to food. Be it the comforting (yet delicious) Sambhar to the freshly brewed filter-coffee, my hometown definitely has the best to offer. Come visit and indulge yourself in some great food! Home Region Chennai, India Undergrad Education National Institute of Technology, Tiruchirappalli (NIT Trichy), 2015 Previous Experience Procter & Gamble HBS Activities Section J treasurer, Consulting for Impact Club co-president ǁ MBA Admissions Harvard Business School Spangler Welcome Center (Spangler 107) Boston, MA 02163 Phone: 1.617.495.6128 Email: admissions@hbs.edu →Map & Directions →More Contact Information Make a Gift Site Map Jobs Harvard University Trademarks Policies Digital Accessibility Copyright © President & Fellows of Harvard College