Skip to main content iastate.edu Index A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z Directory Maps Safety Sign Ons AccessPlus Canvas CyBox CyMail Okta Outlook Workday More Sign Ons... Iowa State University Office of Student Financial Aid Menu Toggle Search Toggle Search Home Types of Aid Scholarships Scholarship Award Code Request (Staff) Grants Federal Work-Study Loans Loan Resources Calculators Deferment and Forbearance Entrance and Exit Counseling Federal Loan Servicers Federal Student Loan Limits Interest Rates and Origination Fees Loan Consolidation Promissory Notes Repayment Tracking Your Loans Cost Cost of Attendance Undergraduate Students: Fall & Spring Graduate Students: Fall & Spring Veterinary Medicine Students Years 1, 2, 3: Fall & Spring Veterinary Medicine Students Year 4: Summer, Fall, & Spring Cost of Attendance Adjustment Veterinary Medicine Cost of Attendance Adjustment 2022-23 Expense Estimator 2021-22 Net Price Calculator FAFSA Completing the FAFSA Verification Tax Filers Non-Tax Filers Verification Document Deadline Policy Verification Forms FAFSA Dependency Independent Appeals FAFSA FSA ID Making Corrections to the FAFSA Special Conditions Student Aid Report (SAR) Student Eligibility Forms Resources About Your Award Letter Calculators Consortium Agreement FAQs Financial Aid Policies Informational Videos Message from the Director Paying Your Bill Satisfactory Academic Progress (SAP) Appealing Financial Aid Suspension SAP for Graduate Students SAP for Undergraduate Students Veterans & Military Students Veterinary Medicine Students Additional Financial Assistance SNAP Benefit Information Withdrawing and Dropping Classes Other Resources Contact Us Site Index Student Employment America Reads/America Counts America Reads/America Counts Contact General Information Information for Educators Information for Prospective Tutors Average Pay Rates Federal Work-Study Work-Study in Workday Student Employee Recognition Student Employee of the Year National Student Employment Week Student Employment Center (SEC) Student Job Board Post a Job Undergraduate Research Assistantships (URA) Student Financial Success CARES Act (HEERF I), CRSSA Act (HEERF II) and ARP (HEERF III) Reports and FAQs Reports and Disclosures: Student Emergency Aid: CARES Act Report and Disclosure for June 5th, 2020 (pdf) Student Emergency Aid: CARES Act Report and Disclosure for July 17th, 2020 (pdf) Student Emergency Aid: CARES Act Report and Disclosure for August 28th, 2020 (pdf) Student Emergency Aid: CARES Act Report and Disclosure for September 30th, 2020 (pdf) HEERF I Final Student Emergency Aid: CRRSA Act Report and Disclosure for June 30, 2021 (pdf) HEERF II Final Student Emergency Aid: CRRSA & ARP Act Report and Disclosure for September 30, 2021 (pdf) Student Emergency Aid: CRRSA & ARP ACT Report and Disclosure for December 31, 2021 (pdf) Student Emergency Aid: CRRSA & ARP ACT Report and Disclosure for March 31, 2022 (pdf) Institutional Support: CARES Act Report for September 30th, 2020 (pdf) Institutional Support: CARES Act Report for December 31st, 2020 (pdf) HEERF I Final Institutional Support: CRSSA Act Report ending March 31st, 2021 (pdf) Institutional Support: CRRSA Act Report ending June 30, 2021 (pdf) Institutional Support, 2021 Third Quarter Report: 00186900_HEERF_Q32021_10102021 Institutional Support, 2021 Fourth Quarter Report: 00186900_HEERF_Q42021_01102022 Institutional Support, 2022 First Quarter Report:00186900_HEERF_Q12022_04082022 CARES Act (HEERF I) The Coronavirus Aid, Relief and Economic Security (CARES) Act was passed by Congress and signed into law to provide economic relief from COVID-19. One section of the CARES Act established the Higher Education Emergency Relief Fund (HEERF) to help universities provide emergency financial aid grants for students and to assist with institutional expenses related to the disruption of campus operations due to the pandemic. Iowa State received $21.7 million in HEERF funding from the CARES Act, with half ($10.85 million) used for emergency student financial aid grants and the other half for institutional operations The U.S. Department of Education requires institutions to report on usage of their HEERF funds for both student financial aid grants and for institutional support. CARES Act FAQ: Student Financial Aid What types of funding were available? Iowa State University received $10.85 million through the Coronavirus Aid, Relief, and Economic Security (CARES) Act. Iowa State University also received funding through generous donations to the #CycloneStrong fund, and through our participation in the University Innovation Alliance through support they received from ECMC and Course Hero. Who was eligible to apply? Any student – undergraduate, graduate, professional, domestic, international, or undocumented – was eligible to apply. Students must have been enrolled for Spring 2020 or have registered for classes for Summer 2020. We did not consider applications for Fall 2020 as the language of the CARES Act dollars indicated it was to be spent for students whose academic pursuits were interrupted during Spring 2020 due to COVID-19. Each funding source had different criteria, meaning that applications were matched with a fund for which the student would qualify. What were the criteria to qualify? To have qualified for CARES Act funding, students must have: Demonstrated a financial hardship due to the COVID-19 pandemic. Submitted the 2019-20 Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA). Students who did not filed the 2019-20 FAFSA were not eligible. Completed the financial aid verification process, if selected. Met Satisfactory Academic Progress requirements. Utilized all available sources of financial aid, including federal student loans. To have qualified for funds other than CARES Act funds, students must have: Demonstrated a financial hardship due to the COVID-19 pandemic. Met Satisfactory Academic Progress requirements. Utilized all available sources of financial aid, including federal student loans if eligible. Was there a maximum amount? Students were asked to apply for what they needed to meet the expenses of their hardship. Because there were multiple sources of funds, we analyzed the best way in which to assist. We could not guarantee that we could meet a student’s full request. Were students guaranteed full funding for their hardship? Many students experienced hardship and the full impact of the need of all students was unknown. Funds were distributed as equitably as possible, but could not guarantee that students would receive full funding for their request. How did students receive the funds? Funds received through the CARES Act, #CycloneStrong, or the UIA, flowed through the ISU U-Bill system but did NOT apply to any outstanding U-Bill charges. It was deposited directly into a student’s personal account at their financial institution of choice as designated in AccessPlus. Students who had not set up a direct deposit account, were directed to do so at AccessPlus >> Account/U-Bill >> Direct Deposit Sign-up. Money typically took 2-3 business days to appear in a bank account from the date the refund showed on the U-Bill How long did it take before students knew the status of their application? As the volume of applications that were received was unknown, providing an exact date was difficult. Every effort was be made to respond within a week regarding the status of a request. Students received notification via their ISU e-mail address Will funds be available beyond spring semester? The first priority was to assist students who experienced a financial hardship in Spring 2020 or for enrollment in Summer 2020 as a result of a disruption in campus activities due to COVID-19. Funding through the Federal CARES Act was also utilized to assist Pell-eligible undergraduate students who had been enrolled in Spring 2020, and met all other CARES qualifications, with the purchase of a laptop when ISU announced that laptops would be a requirement for the 2020-21 academic year. Currently, all funds from the Federal CARES Act are expended. Students with continuing needs should contact the Office of Student Financial Aid to discuss other available options. CARES Act FAQ: Institutional Support How much funding did ISU receive for institutional expenses related to the disruption of campus operations due to the pandemic? Iowa State University received $10.85 million through the Coronavirus Aid, Relief, and Economic Security (CARES) Act. How can the funds be spent? According to guidance from the U.S. Department of Education, these funds can cover any costs associated with significant changes to the delivery of instruction due to the coronavirus. The USDOE has created specific FAQs to answer questions regarding these funds. CRSSA Act (HEERF II) The Coronavirus Aid, Relief and Economic Security (CARES) Act was passed by Congress and signed into law to provide economic relief from COVID-19. One section of the CARES Act established the Higher Education Emergency Relief Fund (HEERF) to help universities provide emergency financial aid grants for students and to assist with institutional expenses related to the disruption of campus operations due to the pandemic. Iowa State received $21.7 million in HEERF funding from the CARES Act under section 18004(a)(1), with half ($10.85 million) used for emergency student financial aid grants and the other half for institutional operations. On December 27, 2020, the President signed the Coronavirus Response and Relief Supplemental Appropriations Act, 2021 (CRRSAA) (P.L. 116-260). The CRRSA Act requires that an institution receiving funding under section 314(a)(1) provide the “same amount” in financial aid grants to students from the new CRRSAA funds that it was required or which it would have been required to provide under its original CARES Act Student Aid Portion award. The U.S. Department of Education requires institutions to report on usage of their HEERF funds for both student financial aid grants and for institutional support. CRSSA Act FAQ’s: Student Financial Aid What types of funding were available? Iowa State University received $10.85 million through the Coronavirus Aid, Relief, and Economic Security (CARES) Act and an additional $10.85M through the Coronavirus Response and Relief Supplemental Appropriations Act (CRRSAA). Iowa State University also received funding through generous donations to the #CycloneStrong fund, and through our participation in the University Innovation Alliance through support they received from ECMC and Course Hero. Who was eligible to apply? Any student – undergraduate, graduate, professional, domestic, international, or undocumented – was eligible to apply, if not initially awarded through the block awarding process. Students must have been enrolled for Fall 2020 or Spring 2021. Each funding source had different criteria, meaning that students who completed an application and met awarding criteria, were matched to a fund for which the student could qualify. What were the criteria to qualify? To have qualified for CRSSAA funding, students must have: Been enrolled as an undergraduate, graduate, or professional student during 2020‐2021 Been eligible for funding under Title IV of the Higher Education Act of 1965 Demonstrated exceptional need To have qualified for funds other than CRRSAA funds, students must have: Demonstrated a financial hardship Met Satisfactory Academic Progress requirements. Utilized all available sources of financial aid, including federal student loans if eligible. Was there a maximum amount? CRRSAA Funds: Students with an EFC of 0-5711 were awarded $1,600 each; students with an EFC of 5712-10711 were awarded $1,300 each; graduate or professional students whose FAFSA indicated they had dependents were awarded $1,600 each. Remaining funds were disbursed on the basis of an application with the dollar amount awarded contingent on the identified need for the funds. Were students guaranteed full funding for their hardship? Many students experienced hardship and the full impact of the need of all students was unknown. Funds were distributed as equitably as possible, but could not guarantee that students would receive full funding, based on the request submitted. How did students receive the funds? Funds received through CRRSAA, #CycloneStrong, or the UIA, flowed through the ISU U-Bill system but did NOT apply to any outstanding U-Bill charges. It was deposited directly into a student’s personal account at their financial institution of choice as designated in AccessPlus. Students who had not set up a direct deposit account, were directed to do so at AccessPlus >> Account/U-Bill >> Direct Deposit Sign-up. Money typically took 2-3 business days to appear in a bank account from the date the refund showed on the U-Bill. How long did it take before students knew the status of their application? Applications received from those students not awarded through the block awarding process were ongoing. Every effort was be made to respond within a week regarding the status of a request. Students received notification via their ISU e-mail address. Will funds be available beyond spring semester? Currently, all funds from the Federal CRRSA Act are expended. Students with continuing needs should contact the Office of Student Financial Aid to discuss other available options. CRSSA Act FAQ’s: Institutional Support How much funding did ISU receive for institutional expenses related to the CRSSA Act? Iowa State University received $21.59 million through the Coronavirus Response and Relief Supplemental Appropriations Act (CRRSAA). How can the funds be spent? According to guidance from the U.S. Department of Education, these funds can cover: Defraying expenses associated with coronavirus (including lost revenue, reimbursement for expenses already incurred, technology costs associated with a transition to distance education, faculty and staff trainings, and payroll); Carrying out student support activities authorized by the Higher Education Act of 1965, as amended (HEA), that address needs related to coronavirus. The USDOE has created specific FAQs to answer questions regarding these funds. ARP (HEERF III) Iowa State University received $57,735,048 in Higher Education Emergency Relief Funds (HEERF III) from the American Rescue Plan with $28.9 million to be used for emergency student financial aid grants and the remainder designated for institutional operations. As of March 31, 2022, 13,197 students have been awarded $27,687,900. The remaining balance has been reserved for students submitting professional judgement reviews through the Special Conditions process. Office of Student Financial Aid Office of Student Financial Aid 0210 Beardshear Hall 515 Morrill Road Ames, IA 50011-2103 Summer 2022 Office Hours Monday-Friday 7:30 am - 4:00 pm Contact Us financialaid@iastate.edu 515-294-2223 phone 515-294-0851 fax Facebook Twitter Instagram Social Media Directory Copyright © 1995 - Iowa State University of Science and Technology All rights reserved. FAFSA: ISU School Code 001869 Financial Aid Code of Conduct Consumer Information Disclosure CyCash Loading... Home Types of Aid ▼ Scholarships ▼ Scholarship Award Code Request (Staff) Grants Federal Work-Study Loans Loan Resources ▼ Calculators Deferment and Forbearance Entrance and Exit Counseling Federal Loan Servicers Federal Student Loan Limits Interest Rates and Origination Fees Loan Consolidation Promissory Notes Repayment Tracking Your Loans Cost ▼ Cost of Attendance ▼ Undergraduate Students: Fall & Spring Graduate Students: Fall & Spring Veterinary Medicine Students Years 1, 2, 3: Fall & Spring Veterinary Medicine Students Year 4: Summer, Fall, & Spring Cost of Attendance Adjustment Veterinary Medicine Cost of Attendance Adjustment 2022-23 Expense Estimator 2021-22 Net Price Calculator FAFSA ▼ Completing the FAFSA Verification ▼ Tax Filers Non-Tax Filers Verification Document Deadline Policy Verification Forms FAFSA Dependency ▼ Independent Appeals FAFSA FSA ID Making Corrections to the FAFSA Special Conditions Student Aid Report (SAR) Student Eligibility Forms Resources ▼ About Your Award Letter Calculators Consortium Agreement FAQs Financial Aid Policies Informational Videos Message from the Director Paying Your Bill Satisfactory Academic Progress (SAP) ▼ Appealing Financial Aid Suspension SAP for Graduate Students SAP for Undergraduate Students Veterans & Military Students Veterinary Medicine Students Additional Financial Assistance ▼ SNAP Benefit Information Withdrawing and Dropping Classes Other Resources Contact Us Site Index Student Employment ▼ America Reads/America Counts ▼ America Reads/America Counts Contact General Information Information for Educators Information for Prospective Tutors Average Pay Rates Federal Work-Study ▼ Work-Study in Workday Student Employee Recognition ▼ Student Employee of the Year National Student Employment Week Student Employment Center (SEC) Student Job Board ▼ Post a Job Undergraduate Research Assistantships (URA) Student Financial Success