Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Health Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Our Services Appointments Health Topics Events Forms and Guidelines Our Organization News See All Services What's Open Now Patient Resources Quarantine and Isolation Support Coping Tools Immunization Compliance Top Services Birth Control Education Individual Counseling Primary Care Register with Disability Services Sexual Assault: Get Support STI Testing Support Groups Travel Medicine Urgent Medical Concerns Workshops and Trainings Cost of Service Overview Make an Appointment Same Day Service Emergency and After-hours Support Alcohol Body Image Concerns Marijuana Disabilities Other Drugs HIV Insurance Men's Health Mental Health and Well-Being Anxiety Depression Stress Nutrition Physical Activity Relationships Overview Academic Relationships Friendships Roommates Sexual and Reproductive Health Sleep Transgender and Gender Expansive Health Violence Prevention Prevention Consent What Is Sexual Assault? Supporting a Survivor What Is Relationship Abuse? Stalking What Is Sexual Harassment? Bystander Intervention-Step UP! Women's Health See All Events Sexual Assault Awareness Month Columbia Health Flu Season Information Virtual Naloxone Training About Columbia Health Who We Are Who We Serve Confidentiality, Patient Rights, & Patient Responsibilities Operating Philosophy Video Library Your Feedback Staff Directory Health Units Alice! Health Promotion Counseling and Psychological Services Disability Services Gay Health Advocacy Project (GHAP) Insurance Office Medical Services Sexual Violence Response Columbia Health You are here: Home The Quick Escape Button The Quick Escape Button The Quick Escape button appears on every sexual and relationship violence-related page on our site and will point your browser to www.weatherchannel.com in case you need to quickly leave our site. If you are afraid that an abusive spouse, partner, or family member may be monitoring your computer use, please review the information below about safer computer use. Quick Escape Button In the sidebar of all the pages related to sexual violence and partner abuse on our website is a red ESCAPE button. Clicking on that button will automatically take you to The Weather Channel’s web page. We chose that site because weather is something that we’re all interested in and it might be less suspicious than taking you to a blank Google screen, or a shopping site. Internet Safety As you surf the internet on your computer, the websites you visit are stored in your web browser’s history (web browsers are apps like Chrome, Safari, Firefox, and Internet Explorer.) This is true on your computer as well as your phone. Even though you can delete the history of the sites you have visited, there are tools that an individual can use to retrieve it. Additionally, there are software apps that a user can install on your computer to monitor which websites you visit, steal your user names and passwords, and access your email or other sensitive information. If you think your computer or phone may be being monitored, be as safe as possible when browsing for information you do not want your abuser to know you are viewing. Most browsers include a private browsing mode, which will not track history or store other information. Although not completely safe, it is recommended to use these modes as much as possible when browsing sensitive information. Ideally, use a safe computer. Safe computers can be found at the local library, internet café, at shelters, at work, a computer technology center, or at a friend’s home. Always use safe computers when researching things such as travel plans, housing options, legal issues and safety plans. How to Use Private Browsing & Delete History Browser Firefox How to browse privately Click here How to clear browser history and cache Click here Browser Chrome How to browse privately Click here How to clear browser history and cache Click here Browser Safari How to browse privately Click here How to clear browser history and cache Click here Browser Internet Explorer How to browse privately Click here How to clear browser history and cache Click here If you have no choice but to use a computer that may not be safe, always use private mode rather than clearing your history after each session. A blank history can also raise suspicion from your abuser. If you are unable to prevent your history from being tracked for one reason or another and do not want to clear it, make your browsing as hard to track as possible. For example, if you are looking to relocate to California, do not just search for jobs or apartments in California. Also perform searches in other locations to make it harder for an abuser to discover your plans. Email Your abusive partner could have access to your email account. To be safe, open an email account your partner does not know about on a safe computer and use that account for safety planning and sensitive communications. Do not use any personally identifiable or easily guess information when creating user names or passwords. It is a good idea to keep your monitored account active with non-critical emails in order to maintain appearances. Cell Phone Cell phones can be a beacon, tracking your exact location in real time. Call and text history can also be retrieved by an abusive partner. Additionally, a location tracking device (GPS) can be placed on your car or in your purse. If you feel that your phone may be monitored, the safest thing to do is to purchase a pay-as-you-go phone that you keep in a safe place, or to use a phone in a safe place, such as at work, at a friend’s, or at a shelter. Social Media Only post things you want the public to see or know. Once it’s online, it’s out of your control. Be very protective of your personal information like phone numbers, email and physical addresses, your birth date, home town, birth town, the schools you attended, your employer, and other similar information can give an abuser plenty of ways to monitor you and locate you. Even photos can be traced and searched and may provide information you do not want to disclose. In addition to not posting personal information yourself, tell your friends and people close to you to not post anything personal about you either and to not tag you in photos if you are uncomfortable with it. Passwords Keep all passwords private and make them difficult to guess by using no personal information in either your user names or passwords. Do not write them down and leave them anywhere where an abuser may find them. If your computer or phone ask if you would like it to save your user name or password, always say no. Learn more about the Quick Escape button. Make an Appointment Closed Sorry, we are closed. Open Now edit location Check out our office locations and hours Columbia Health Administration Wallach Hall, Suite 125, Mail Code 4202, 1116 Amsterdam Avenue · New York, NY 10027 Phone 212-854-2284 Contact Us [email protected] Internal Use Only Login to Access Follow Us Facebook Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close