Skip to Content Menu Audiences Clemson Home Faculty/Staff Resources Resources A-Z Index Calendar Campus Maps Phonebook Apply Now Make a Gift Prospective Students Current Students Research About Partner News SCIENCE MATTERS Focusing on Discovery, Learning and Engagement Top News & FeaturesMore News Clemson-led research teams launch rockets into aurora borealis to study energy exchange Experiments and Experiences Clemson’s COBRE Symposium features leading experts on genetics of human disease Bradley Awards recognize faculty, graduate student Creative Inquiry mentors Upcoming Events » View full calendar here JUN 3 Summer Seminar Series on Gas Dynamics and Gravity: Enrico Ragusa,... 2:00 pm to 3:15 pm Click event for location. JUN 10 Summer Seminar Series on Gas Dynamics and Gravity: Munan Gong, MP... 2:00 pm to 3:15 pm Click event for location. JUN 17 International Conference and Expo on Applied Microbiology 12:00 pm to 7:00 pm Click event for location. JUN 17 Summer Seminar Series on Gas Dynamics and Gravity: Mark Avara, Io... 2:00 pm to 3:15 pm Click event for location. EXPECT EXCELLENCE COVID-19 Information COVID-19 UPDATES and RESOURCESFACULTY/STAFF RESOURCES COVID-19 BOOKLET FOR PARENTS and CHILDREN Welcome to SCIENCE The faculty, staff and students of the College of Science focus, as a team, on academic, faculty and inclusive excellence, seeking high-impact and transformational experiences. As part of a land-grant University, we understand the value of being locally relevant and embracing the responsibility of improving the lives of South Carolinians. As an aspiring world-class College of Science, we understand the importance of being globally impactful and preparing our graduates to be leaders in an increasingly diverse and interconnected world. The College of Science has one school and four departments that offer 25 undergraduate and graduate degrees: seven Bachelor of Science, four Bachelor of Arts, six Master of Science and eight Doctor of Philosophy. Learn more about the College of Science and our degree programs in our undergraduate viewbook or our new graduate viewbook. Find Out More About Departments and Majors DEPARTMENTS AND MAJORS View the 2019 College Profile The 2019 College Profile has been published in print and online. View a flipbook of the profile, and learn more about the College of Science and its faculty excellence, impact of discovery, research, outreach, engagement and more. Follow or Like the College of Science on Social Media ➥ Facebook — Facebook.com/ClemsonScience ➥ Instagram — @ClemsonScience ➥ Twitter — @ClemsonScience Watch Our 2021 College of Science Video You can also watch the 2018 College of Science video. DEAN’S NEWSLETTERS FACULTY OPENINGS Special Commemorative Programs To honor our Spring 2020 and Summer 2020 graduates — whose commencements were delayed because of the COVID-19 pandemic — the College of Science produced personalized commemorative programs. ➥ View the Spring 2020 commemorative program ➥ View the Summer 2020 commemorative program By the numbers #1 2018 ranking of Clemson’s Career Services Program, according to The Princeton Review. 24 Percentage of Honors College students who are pursing College of Science majors. Give to the College Like Us on Facebook Copyright © 2019 Clemson University College of Science | 118 Long Hall, Clemson, SC 29634 864-656-3015 | Email Us