Skip to main content MyUW Calendar Directories Libraries UW Medicine Maps UW News Helpful Links Computing/IT ISC/Workday Husky Card UW Bothell UW Tacoma UW Facebook UW Twitter University of Washington University of Washington Students Parents Faculty & Staff Alumni Quick Links About COVID-19 Stories UW Medicine stories Media coverage Experts for journalists FAQ Stories All stories News releases UW News blog UW Notebook Official notices UW in the media Multimedia Video stories Soundbites/b-roll Interactives Experts Directory Expert quotes COVID-19 experts Speakers Bureau Media contacts For Journalists For researchers Media Training Data and Reports UW News Menu About COVID-19 Stories UW Medicine stories Media coverage Experts for journalists FAQ Stories All stories News releases UW News blog UW Notebook Official notices UW in the media Multimedia Video stories Soundbites/b-roll Interactives Experts Directory Expert quotes COVID-19 experts Speakers Bureau Media contacts For Journalists For researchers Media Training Data and Reports Home UW News For researchers & staff Media Training Media Training Close Menu Home For researchers & staff Data and Reports Media Training Have an interview with a journalist coming up soon? Here are a couple of resources to help you prepare for your upcoming interview with a reporter. If schedules allow, we can also try to fit in a brief, one-on-one media training with you. Please reach out to the Public Information Officer who covers your academic subject to get started. You can also download our interview tipsheets below. Media interview tips Resource: Interview tips for print/online stories and broadcast (pdf) Remote interviews from home: Do… Don’t… Pay attention to your background Rely on your computer’s built-in mic Remove distractions as much as possible Have a bright window or light behind you Eliminate background noise by closing doors/windows Hold your laptop/camera in your lap or with your hands Use wireless earbuds with a built-in mic (or an external mic) if you have them Angle the camera really low or really high Look into your webcam/camera as you speak Face a window/soft light if you can Resource: Download this table as a PDF Have an interview in the future or curious about media training? The UW News office offers one-on-one, small group and department-level media training — including practice for broadcast interviews. Please fill out the form below to get started. Have an idea you want to write about in an op-ed or analysis piece? Many mainstream news outlets publish opinion and analysis pieces written by subject-matter experts on topics that are relevant to their audiences or that provide context for an ongoing news item. The UW is a partner institution with The Conversation, a news analysis website that publishes short pieces written by academics on relevant issues. Whether you’re interested in writing for The Conversation or seeking to publish an op-ed in a more traditional news outlet, we can help. Reach out to the Public Information Officer who covers your academic subject to start the conversation about your idea and see how we can help you pitch it to media outlets. We also can do one-on-one, small group and department-level advising sessions for op-ed and analysis writing. You can also learn more by downloading our op-ed writing guide below. Resource: “Want to write an op-ed?” (pdf) Home For researchers & staff Data and Reports Media Training Search UW News Search for: UW Experts Ukraine Climate COVID-19 Full directory Categories Browse Administrative affairs Arts and entertainment Buildings and grounds Education Engineering Environment For UW employees Health and medicine Honors and awards Interactive Learning News releases News roundups Official notices Politics and government Population Health Profiles Research Science Social science Technology UW and the community UW Notebook UW Today blog Latest news releases Critical race theory at center of UW study of unequal access to treatment for opioid addiction 3 days ago Seattle democracy vouchers increase donations, number of candidates in city elections 4 days ago Social cohesion found to be key risk factor in early COVID infections 1 week ago More Connect Campus publications A&S Perspectives College of Education University of Washington Magazine The Daily UW Press More publications Evans School Foster School of Business UW Medicine Newsroom Information School IT Connect News Jackson School Law School News President's blog School of Dentistry School of Nursing School of Pharmacy School of Public Health School of Social Work The Trend in Engineering UW Libraries: News & Events UW Video Washington Engineer UW Today Newsletter Subscribe UW Today Daily UW Today Week in Review If you're trying to subscribe with a non-UW email address, please email uwnews@uw.edu for assistance. For UW employees Submission guidelines Submission form University of Washington Be boundless Connect with us: Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Pinterest Accessibility Contact Us Jobs Campus Safety My UW Rules Docket Privacy Terms Newsletter © 2022 University of Washington | Seattle, WA