Authorization to Release of Medical Records - University of Houston Skip to main content Restrict my search to Counseling and Psychological Services Submit Close Student Affairs and Enrollment Services Login to AccessUH Give to UH Search Counseling and Psychological Services Home About Us Accreditations Contact & Location Information Statement on Diversity Office Hours Mission and Vision CAPS Staff Confidentiality Eligibility for CAPS Services Fees Services First Visit (Triage) Essential Skills Workshops Single Session Therapy (SST) Group Counseling Couples Counseling (Short-Term) Individual Counseling (Short-Term) Community Referrals Crisis Intervention CAPS Defusing and Debriefing Process Conduct Assessment and Response Team Helping Students of Concern Get help for Sexual Assault What to do if you are in crisis Resources Harrassment, Assault/Abuse English Language Learners Faculty & Staff Parents & Loved Ones Race Related Stress Resources Self-Help Resources Students First Generation College Students What is Greek Life? International Students LGBTQIA Career Resources Student Athletes Students of Color Students with Children Students with DisABILITIES Returning Adult Students Veterans Texas Sanctuary Cities FAQ Undocumented Students DACA: What You Need to Know DACA FAQ Dream Scholars UH Resources COVID-19 Resources Outreach Outreach Request College Student Grief Awareness Let's Talk Program CAPS Liaisons Suicide Prevention Training: QPR Coogs Conquer (C-2) Series Support Groups Latinas REACH Sista Circle: Black Grads Rainbow Wellness Group Newsletters Calendar Clinical Training APA Internship Practicum Training Forms Appeals Authorization to Release of Medical Records Informed Consent for Counseling Services Medical Withdrawal Application Giving UH Home Counseling and Psychological Services Forms Authorization to Release of Medical Records Forms Appeals Authorization to Release of Medical Records Informed Consent for Counseling Services Medical Withdrawal Application Authorization to Release of Medical Records All information is considered confidential and will not be released without the patient’s written consent or a signed court order. Counseling and Psychological Services retains medical records for 7 years past the last date on which the service was given. Your medical records may include history, diagnoses, and/or treatment of drug or alcohol abuse, mental illness, or communicable disease, including Human Immunodeficiency Virus (HIV) and Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome (AIDS). The charge for this service is $1.00 per page for the first 25 pages. After the first 25 pages the fee is 50 cents per page payable by credit card or charge to your student account. To request copies of your records Send or bring a completed Authorization to Release Mental Health Records Form and payment of applicable fees. IN PERSON Submit an Authorization for Release of Mental Health Records Form with applicable fees and a picture ID to the Counseling and Psychological Service front desk. Cash, checks, Visa, Discover or MasterCard accepted. MAILED REQUESTS Send a completed Authorization for Release of Mental Health Records Form, legible copy of your driver’s license and applicable fees to Counseling and Psychological Services. Checks accepted. FAX REQUESTS Fax a completed Authorization for Release of Mental Health Records Form and a legible copy of your driver’s license to Counseling and Psychological Services at 713-743-5446. Contact Counseling and Psychological Services at 713-743-5454 after faxing your request to render payment of applicable fees by Visa, Discover or MasterCard. Counseling and Psychological Services will respond to complete/authorized request for mental health records within approximately seven (7) to fifteen (15) days after the receipt of a valid request and applicable fees. Records may be sent by mail or held for pick-up. Upon request Counseling and Psychological Services will fax records. Please read the instructions above before completing the authorization form. Authorization Form Related Links Authorization to Release of Medical Records University of Houston Houston, Texas 77204 (713) 743-2255 A–Z Index Academic Calendar Campus Carry Policy Campus Map Career Opportunities Directory Emergency Information Get Help Human Resources Library Mental Health Resources Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Office of the President Parking Report Copyright Infringement Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness Open Records/Public Information Act Texas Veterans Portal Tuition & Fees UH System Virtual Tour ©2022 University of Houston. All rights reserved. Report a problem with this page Texas.gov Texas Homeland Security TRAIL Fraud Reporting Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Linking Notice Privacy Notice Open Records/Public Information Act Institutional Résumé Required Reports Electronic & Information Resources Accessibility Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness University Policies