Skip to main content Menu Resources Home Admissions Campus Life Academics Visit Outreach Research About Apply or Give Apply Now Make a Gift Residency Classification Transfer Students If you are confused about why your residency is in question, please see our Residency in Question page. Once all parts of the residency application have been submitted, it will take 24 hours for the application to be downloaded and for it to show as under review in the student’s iRoar portal. The process of reviewing a residency application can take up to 8 weeks. Once a decision has been made, the residency director will send an email with that decision. Students can check their iRoar account to see when their application was received. After logging into iRoar, click on “Financial Aid” and then “My Financial Aid.” If additional information is requested in order to make a decision, an email will be sent. If a residency application is approved: The scholarship team will be notified of the approved residency application and the student will be reviewed for any eligible state scholarships. If a residency application is denied: You are entitled to appeal this decision if you have additional information that you can present. Should you decide to pursue an appeal, instructions and a link will be provided in the denial letter. Your appeal will be reviewed by the University Residency Appeals Committee, which may include advisory assistance from the University's general counsel. Appeals generally are sent to the committee on a weekly basis as their schedule permits after the semester starts. The results of the second review will be binding and final and will be retroactive if granted. All of our laws and regulations concerning in-state residency can be found at the SC Commission on Higher Education’s (CHE) website www.che.sc.gov. If you have any other questions, please see our FAQ and Residency Guidelines pages Home First Year Students Transfer Students Residency Guidelines Military Residency Requirements Residency Checklist FAQ Contact Us Residency in Question What Happens Next? Related Links Student Financial Aid Home Admissions Campus Life Academics Visit Outreach Research About Apply To Clemson Undergraduate Graduate Professional Online Education Employment Opportunities Policy/Terms of Use Text Version Web Accessibility Ethics/Safety Hotline Privacy Policy Site Information Copyright © 2022 Clemson University Clemson, South Carolina 29634 864-656-3311 Contact Clemson Stories for the Clemson Family Clemson University on Facebook Clemson University on Twitter Clemson University on LinkedIn Clemson University on Flickr Clemson University on Instagram