Skip to main content UCF News | Stories of Impact + Innovation | Orlando, FL Sections × UCF News | Stories of Impact + Innovation | Orlando, FL Arts Business Colleges Community Health Opinions Science & Tech Sports Student Life Tuesday, May 31, 2022 88ºF Mostly cloudy Colleges & Campus UCF Graduate Programs Score Big with US News Rankings By Alina Hernandez | March 16, 2017 Update: Check out UCF’s 2018 US News College Rankings for the latest news on UCF as a one of the country’s most innovative colleges. Twenty-two University of Central Florida graduate programs were ranked in the top 100 in their respective fields by U.S. News & World Report’s Best Graduate Schools of 2018 released Tuesday. For the first time all seven eligible programs in the College of Engineering and Computer Science ranked among the best programs in the nation, according to the annual survey that ranks more than 800 public and private institutions. UCF’s Top Ranked Degrees UCF’s best-ranked program is Counselor Education in the College of Education & Human Performance, which moved up two spots to No. 7. “UCF is on an upward trajectory because we are harnessing the power of our scale and our pursuit of excellence to transform higher education in the nation,” said UCF Provost and Executive Vice President Dale Whittaker. “These rankings are an important recognition of our academic excellence and rigor – and a tribute to the work of our dedicated faculty. Beyond rankings, though, we truly want to be known as a university of great impact to our students and society.” Overall, the College of Engineering & Computer Science moved up three spots to No. 46 among public universities. Engineering, in particular, uses the power of scale to produce excellence. The Engineering programs ranked are Industrial Engineering, No. 38; Electrical Engineering, No. 55; Computer Engineering, No. 64; Mechanical Engineering, No.69; Materials Engineering, No. 71 Environmental Engineering, No. 74; Civil Engineering, No. 82. “Our three-spot jump in the rankings is a testament to our college’s growing national reputation,” said Michael Georgiopoulos, dean of UCF College of Engineering and Computer Science. “Our faculty, including 20 new members who have recently joined UCF, are pushing the boundaries of scientific discovery in their fields. As one of the nation’s largest producers of engineers and computer scientists, UCF provides high-quality, high-value education, and endless opportunities for students to pursue breakthrough research that is relevant to high-tech industry and vital to our nation’s future.” How Does U.S. News Come Up With the Rankings? The Best Graduate Schools rankings are based on peer and expert opinions about the quality of a program and some statistical data that measures the quality of a school’s faculty, research and students. Breaking into the Top 20 in the Nation In addition to the seventh-ranked Counselor of Education program, UCF’s College of Education & Human Performance has the fourth-highest ranked program at UCF – Special Education, which is 20th nationwide. “We are delighted to be recognized, and especially to see the addition of our Exceptional Education program added to the list of Top 20 programs nationally,” said Pamela Carroll, dean of the college. “Our Counselor Education program continues to do fine work, with growth particularly in its marriage and family program through its federally funded Project Harmony and the excellent work it is doing to provide counseling opportunities in area elementary schools. “ Among Top 100 programs that made significant gains, UCF College of Nursing’s Master of Science in Nursing ranked No. 82, up 27 notches, while the Doctor of Nursing Practice ranked No. 76, up 24 spots. “Currently, there is significant demand for advanced practice nurses as well as nurses with doctorate degrees to serve as leaders, educators and researchers. Our growth in these highly respected national rankings emphasizes our commitment to educational excellence and to meeting the nation’s ever-changing health care needs,” said Mary Lou Sole, dean of the UCF College of Nursing. “To be named among the top 100 nursing graduate programs is an incredible honor not only for the college, but for our faculty, students and Knight nurses nationwide.” Other top performers were UCF’s College of Medicine, celebrating its 11th year, which ranked in Research at No. 92. Among other rankings: The College of Arts & Humanities’ English program ranked 137, the first time it’s been ranked. The College of Business’ part-time Master of Business Administration ranked No. 108 The College of Science’s Sociology program ranked No. 102, the first time it’s been ranked. Other programs not ranked this year continue with prior standings. They are: Communication Sciences and Disorders, No. 53; Computer Science, No. 90; Health Services Administration, No. 38; Nonprofit Management, No. 17; Optics and Photonics, No. 14; Physics, No. 85; Public Administration, No. 63; Social Work, No. 78. The Best Graduate Schools of 2018 edition can be purchased on newsstands. Forbes also listed UCF on this year’s list of America’s Best Value Colleges. UCF was ranked 188th on the list of the top 300 public and private institutions around the nation. Also, check out the UCF Online master’s programs on the rise in the 2017 US News Rankings. View the full list of UCF’s rankings. Share this content on Facebook Tweet this content Share this content on LinkedIn More Headlines Celebrating the National Pan-Hellenic Council’s Divine Nine at UCF May 31, 2022 UCF Football Venue to Become FBC Mortgage Stadium May 31, 2022 Turning Events into Careers May 31, 2022 UCF Students Oust Top Teams at 2022 North America Collegiate Programming Contest, Advance to World Finals May 31, 2022 More About College of Engineering and Computer Science 5 UCF Scholars to be Inducted into Academy of Science, Engineering and Medicine of Florida May 20, 2022 Elite Students Coming to UCF for North America Collegiate Programming Contest May 18, 2022 Aerodynamics of Perching Birds Could Inform Aircraft Design May 17, 2022 More About Colleges & Campus Knights Do That Podcast: Best Moments of Season 1 and 2 May 31, 2022 When Hurricanes Strike, Social Media Can Save Lives May 27, 2022 How to Prepare for Hurricane Season May 27, 2022 More Topics College of Engineering and Computer Science Pegasus Briefs College of Nursing rankings Dale Whittaker University of Central Florida About UCF Contact Us Faculty Online Degrees Policies Privacy Notice Public Records Regulations Report a Concern UCF News 4000 Central Florida Blvd. Orlando, Florida, 32816 | 407.823.2000 © University of Central Florida