Skip navigation Information For: Current Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Brown University Brown Grad School About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life A to Z Index People Directory Graduate School Apply News Archive Graduate School Skip to Navigation News Archive Cadence Lee Recognized with an Outstanding Academic Accomplishment Award Each year, Brown University presents an award to a master’s student who demonstrates outstanding academic accomplishment. Past recipients have represented a wide-array of exceptional students, and this year is no different. Cadence Lee ’21 Sc.M., will be honored with the Brown Academic Accomplishment Award for her outstanding contributions during her time in the master of science in biotechnology (Sc.M.) program. Dr. Maheen Mausoof Adamson ‘22 Sc.M. Wins Professional Excellence Award The Brown University Master’s Award for Professional Excellence recognizes a Brown University master’s student whose outstanding contributions have influenced or contributed to the field or profession. This year’s recipient is Dr. Maheen Mausoof Adamson ’22 Sc.M., a graduate of the master’s in healthcare leadership program at the School of Professional Studies at Brown University. This award recognizes Adamson’s notable accomplishments during the master’s in healthcare leadership program, including her work on the Critical Challenge Project. Kevin Boyce Selected for the Master’s Award for Engaged Citizenship Service to the community, the nation and the world is embedded in the fabric of Brown University. That’s why each year, the institution honors a master’s student with the Master’s Award for Engaged Citizenship and Community Service. The 2022 awardee is Kevin Boyce ’22 MPA, a service minded, unapologetic justice oriented, and thoughtful student leader. He is being honored for his incredible commitment and dedication to creating a more inclusive community at Brown University, particularly for students of color. Astrophysicist Brian G. Keating ‘95 Sc.M., ’00 Ph.D. Selected for Horace Mann Medal The 2022 Horace Mann Medal is awarded to Brian G. Keating, the Chancellor’s Distinguished Professor of Physics at UC San Diego's Center for Astrophysics and Space Sciences. The Medal is awarded at Commencement to a Brown University Graduate School alum who has made significant contributions in their field. Join us on Saturday, May 28 at 12:30 pm at 85 Waterman Street for his forum presentation, Think Like Galileo Galilei: How to Remain Relevant for Half a Millennium. Thomas A. Lewis named Interim Dean of Graduate School Professor of Religious Studies Thomas A. Lewis, known to most as Tal, has been appointed the Interim Dean of Brown’s Graduate School, effective July 1, 2022. He currently serves as the Co-Deputy Dean and Associate Dean of Academic Affairs at the Graduate School, and will serve as Interim Dean for academic year 2022-23. Lewis will succeed Andrew Campbell, who will return to the faculty after completing his current term as Dean in June. In this role, Tal will be responsible for advancing the excellence of Brown's graduate programs, increasing support for our graduate students, and strengthening the broader structure for graduate education across the University. Andrew Campbell to step down as Graduate School dean, return to Brown faculty Andrew G. Campbell, the 15th dean of the Graduate School of Brown University, will step down after six years of leadership effective June 30, 2022, to return to research and teaching as a professor of medical science at Brown. Campbell’s six-year tenure as dean has included record enrollment growth and a marked increase in diversity among Brown graduate students. He has been responsible for engaging and supporting more than 2,600 students enrolled in doctoral and master’s programs in more than 40 departments, centers and institutes, including the Division of Biology and Medicine, the School of Engineering, the School of Public Health and the School of Professional Studies. Read more. Community Announcement on Assistant Director of Graduate Academic Diversity Position The Graduate School is pleased to announce the appointment of Maija Hallsmith as the inaugural Assistant Director of Academic Diversity for the Graduate School. In this role she will be responsible for developing and building on work with graduate programs, faculty and students that advances recruitment, student academic success, and retention to promote increased diversity in all of Brown’s graduate programs. Read more. For physics Ph.D. student, exploring the unknown universe and mentoring the next generation In speaking with Farrah Simpson, the excitement in her voice when the conversation turns to physics — and mentoring young students who might pursue the science she loves — is unmistakable. “I love being able to have a positive impact on other people’s lives,” said Simpson, a Ph.D. student at Brown University. “I was always curious growing up. I remember I would always ask random questions that my physics teacher wasn’t able to answer, and I’d go off and try to figure it out myself.” Simpson, who is from Jamaica, enrolled at Brown in 2018 after earning a bachelor’s degree at Columbia University. Last fall, Fermilab — the U.S. Department of Energy’s particle physics and accelerator laboratory — named her as one of two students in the nation appointed as 2022 Graduate Scholars to work at the lab’s Large Hadron Collider Physics Center. Read more. Holiday Food Drive, Nov. 15 - Dec. 6 All are welcome to particiate in the Graduate School's 13th annual Food Drive to benefit the Rhode Island Community Food Bank. We are collecting food from November 15 - December 6, 2021. Please drop off needed canned goods (see list), in the Food Bank boxes to Horace Mann, at 47 George St (boxes in the lobby & 3rd floor) or the Arnold Lab. Be sure to check the expiration date. Guido Imbens '91 Ph.D. Wins Nobel Prize in Economic Sciences Guido Imbens, a Stanford University economist who earned his Ph.D. from Brown University in 1991, is one of three recipients of the 2021 Nobel Prize in Economic Sciences, the Royal Swedish Academy of Sciences announced on Monday, Oct. 11, in a live-streamed presentation. Imbens and colleague Joshua Angrist, an economist at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, were awarded the prize in recognition of their methodological contributions to the analysis of causal relationships, according to the academy. The pair split the prize with David Card of the University of California, Berkeley, whose empirical contributions to labor economics helped launch a new era of natural experiments across the social sciences. Imbens was also awarded the 2017 Horace Mann Medal — an annual honor to a Brown Graduate School graduate who has made important contributions in their field — in recognition of his important contributions to the field of economics. Read more. 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 … next › last » Home About the Graduate School Healthy Brown FAQs for Graduate Students Academics & Research Living & Resources Financing & Support Admitted Students & Orientation Application Information For Graduate Students For Faculty and Staff Brown University Brown University Graduate School Box 1867 Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-2600 Maps & Directions / Contact Us / Accessibility © 2022 Brown University Resources Graduate School Handbook Academic Code CareerLAB Brown University Writing Center Sarah Doyle Center for Women and Gender Sheridan Center for Teaching & Learning Top Destinations Admission Inquiry Form Commencement Five-Year Ph.D. Support Open Graduate Education External Funding Application Process International Applicants