Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. Legal Affairs & General Counsel General Counsel right arrow down arrow Office of General Counsel right arrow down arrow Public Records Requests Contracting with UC Ethics Attorneys & Staff Contact Us Enterprise Risk Management right arrow down arrow Insurance & Claims right arrow down arrow Insurance Verification or Claims History right arrow down arrow Claims History / Proof of Insurance Request Non-Employee Exception Sheet Medical Malpractice Cross Reference Certificate of Insurance Loss Control & Training right arrow down arrow Drones right arrow down arrow Flight Request Form Fleet Safety right arrow down arrow Driver Registration Protection of Minors Special Events Student Organizations About the Process right arrow down arrow Staff FAQ's Ask a Risk Manager Privacy Internal Audit Home » About UC » Legal Affairs & General Counsel » Enterprise Risk Management » Loss Control & Training » Drones Set Navigation title in component Insurance & Claims Insurance Verification or Claims History Claims History / Proof of Insurance Request Non-Employee Exception Sheet Medical Malpractice Cross Reference Certificate of Insurance Loss Control & Training Drones Flight Request Form Fleet Safety Driver Registration Protection of Minors Special Events Student Organizations About the Process Staff FAQ's Ask a Risk Manager Drones What is an Unmanned Aircraft System? The law defines an unmanned aircraft system (UAS) as "an aircraft that is operated without the possibility of direct human intervention from within or on the aircraft." An unmanned aircraft does not have a human pilot onboard, but instead is controlled from the ground. UAS are most commonly referred to as drones, but also include radio-controlled, fixed-wing aircrafts, helicopters, rotorcraft models, and quadcopters. The operation of unmanned aircraft systems is regulated by the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) and relevant state law. University compliance will reduce any risks to the safety, security and privacy of the University community in connection with UAS flights. All UAS flights and/or UAS flights on University property must be pre-approved. Recreational or hobbyist use of UAS is strictly prohibited on UC property at all times. Using a UAS to take photographs or videos for personal use is considered recreational use and is therefore prohibited. What are the rules for UAS flights? UAS flights are permissible under the following conditions: Pilot must have a Remote Pilot Certificate and approval from the University available at all times during the flight Pilot may only operate one aircraft at a time Flight must take place during daylight hours Flight cannot take place over people Aircraft must weigh less than 55 lbs Aircraft maximum groundspeed is less than 100 mph Aircraft maximum altitude is 400 feet above ground level Aircraft is within sight at all times during flight Provide proper notifications to any hospital air care unit(s) within 2 nautical miles and any airport(s) within 5 nautical miles If the flight does not meet these conditions, the University may seek a variance if the educational or research purpose is deemed mission critical. Schedule My Flight As soon as practicable, but at least two weeks in advance of your scheduled UAS flight, the UC department/group must: Submit the following documentation to Enterprise Risk Management: Copy of Remote Pilot Certificate Certificate of Insurance Flight plan (date/time, purpose, area covered, etc.) UAS (drone) flight request form Provide proper notifications to any hospital air care unit(s) within 2 nautical miles and any airport(s) within 5 nautical miles. Insure My Drone Does your department have a drone? We can insure it! Ask A Risk Manager Resources Federal Aviation Administration B4UFLY smartphone app Flight Notifications CVG airport Lunken airport University of Cincinnati 2600 Clifton Ave Cincinnati OH 45221 513-556-0000 UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati University of Cincinnati 2600 Clifton Ave Cincinnati OH 45221 513-556-0000 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top