Skip to main content Alumni Current Students Prospective Students MSHP Applicants MD-MSHP Applicants Menu Master of Science in Health Policy Research Home About About PennMSHP People News Curriculum Degree requirements Courses Other Training and Support Research Other Training Certificates Institutes Summer Fellowships HSR at Penn What is HSR? Affiliated Centers and Institutes Redefining the 'other', first-year Jason Tong writes on what it means to be an Asian American. COVID 19 Stimulus package: a prescription for health? Read more from alumnus George Dalembert for the Philadelphia Inquirer. Second-Years Dan Resnick and Jeff Eugene warn against side effects of insurance disclosures in providing health care. Does Remdesivir work against COVID-19? Read more from first-year Ravi Gupta. Welcome to MSHP Training Researchers to Improve the Nation's Health System The Penn Master of Science in Health Policy Research (PennMSHP) is a rigorous, skills-based research degree that enables clinicians to leverage their knowledge of medical practice to improve the ways in which health care is organized, financed, managed and delivered. How to Apply Events Calendar Keep up with the Latest: MSHP Newsletters Sign up to receive the Quarterly MSHP Newsletter! Program Video What is PennMSHP? Tweets by Penn_MSHP course instructors and mentors 97% graduation rate 72% of alumni work in research/academia and the rest in a broad spectrum of industries Contact Us Master of Science in Health Policy Research 1310 Blockley Hall 423 Guardian Drive Philadelphia, PA 19104-6021 (p) 215-573-2740 (f) 215-573-2742 mshp@pennmedicine.upenn.edu Follow Us: © 2022 Master of Science in Health Policy Research. All Rights Reserved. Alumni Current Students Prospective Students MSHP Applicants MD-MSHP Applicants Home About About PennMSHP People Leadership Course Instructors Mentors Staff Current Students Recent Alumni News Curriculum Degree requirements Courses Other Training and Support Research Other Training Certificates Institutes Summer Fellowships HSR at Penn What is HSR? Affiliated Centers and Institutes