Request Information For more information or to speak to an admissions counselor, please fill out this form: First Name Please enter your first name. Last Name Please enter your last name. Email Address Please enter a valid email address. Phone Number Please enter a valid phone number (numbers only). Program of Interest Select One...Online MBAMBA Direct Please select the program you're interested in. Learn More Please wait By providing my information and clicking the "Submit" button, I consent to be contacted via telephone (including a cell phone, if provided), email, and text message. Thank you! A program representative will be reaching out to you shortly. Which SMU Cox program is the best for you? How many years ago did you graduate from college? Select One...0-34-88+ Please select an option. Next Step How many years of full-time work experience do you have? Select One...0-34-88+ Please select an option. Back Next Step Current or past military service? Select One...YesNo Please select an option. Back See Results Thanks! Our MBA Direct program is an online, part-time MBA program designed for recent grads and early career professionals like you. Visit our MBA comparison page to learn more about the program or complete the Request Information form to speak to one of our Enrollment Advisors. Thanks! Our Online MBA program is an online, part-time MBA program designed for working professionals like you. Visit our MBA comparison page to learn more about the program or complete the Request Information form to speak to one of our Enrollment Advisors. Select a program: Online MBA Admissions MBA Direct Admissions Apply Now Menu Menu Online Programs Online MBA Enhance your career trajectory and gain a competitive edge in the job market while pursuing a world-class MBA at a part-time pace. MBA Direct Accelerate your career with the MBA Direct, an online, part-time MBA program designed for recent graduates and early career professionals with less than three years of experience. Compare SMU Cox Graduate Programs About The Cox Advantage Global Immersions Our Curriculum Our Faculty Student Stories Connect Events Meet With Us News SMU Cox Today Cox On Campus Admissions Application Information Tuition and Financial Aid Meet Our Team Class Profiles Key Dates Blog Request Info Unmute Video Mute Video An MBA Program Built for Early Career Professionals Designed for recent college graduates and professionals with less than three years of work experience, the Cox MBA Direct offers you the opportunity to earn an MBA now and accelerate your career goals. Created with early career professionals in mind, this part-time degree with optional on-campus electives combines highly interactive, synchronized online class sessions with a comprehensive curriculum designed to challenge students and foster the skills needed to solve real-world problems. MBA Direct candidates will experience the academic rigor and collaborative community of Cox, all while gaining three years of valuable work experience throughout the course of the program. The program’s flexibility and structure allow students to focus on the Cox curriculum at a mindful pace as they advance their current career or begin recruiting to pivot into a different post-graduate position. Applicants with three or more years of experience who are interested in the convenience and flexibility of an online MBA should consider the Cox Online MBA program. Program at a Glance 33 months, 53 credit hours Part-time, Weeknight evenings Live-Online Sessions with on-campus access & elective options Average Work Experience: 15 months Average Age: 24 years Curriculum includes one 4-day immersion experience Curriculum Overview An Innovative Curriculum Enhance your business analytics foundation through core courses like Data Analysis, Micro and Macro Economics, and Financial Accounting Participate in interactive, online courses specifically curated for intimate learning and application focused course content Build your professional experience while pursuing an MBA with a part-time curriculum paced over three years Tailor your degree to your specific interests with the option to take on or off campus business electives Take on and help solve pressing business challenges through global immersion experiences Explore Our Curriculum Why Choose MBA Direct? The Cox MBA Direct Advantage Accelerate your career alongside other driven, emerging leaders Join a one-of-a-kind MBA program, designed specifically for early career professionals Collaborate with your classmates & professors through live courses and intimate breakout groups Gain international business perspective during a global immersion Connect with a network of global leaders and 40,000+ alumni and have an ally for life Prepare for MBA-level jobs, gaining valuable work experience while completing the program Learn More Our Foundational Pillars Leadership At Cox, we know what it takes to become a well-rounded business leader. From managing cross-functional teams to thinking innovatively, you will hone your business leadership skills for the changing world of work. Analytics Data analytics now has a bigger impact on business than ever before. As an online MBA candidate you will learn data analytics skills and how to clearly communicate findings to colleagues and management, no matter the industry. Experiential Learning You will gain hands-on experience by examining the challenges of real companies and applying your own solutions. Our model of experiential learning provides the framework to keep building on the knowledge and skills you acquire over the course of the program. Learn More Additional Benefits Access to the stunning SMU Cox campus, extensive resources and robust variety of student groups In addition to mentorship from faculty, Cox offers Career Management Services for each student All applicants are considered for merit-based scholarship, with 60% of students receiving awards Our enrollment team is standing by to answer your questions and support you throughout the application process. Schedule a time to connect with us below! Meet with us Key Dates & Deadlines Fall 2022 Spring 2023 Early Review $2,500 scholarship December 15, 2021 August 12, 2022 Priority Submit I $2,000 scholarship February 11, 2022 September 16, 2022 Priority Submit II April 22, 2022 October 14, 2022 Final Submit Deadline June 24, 2022 November 11, 2022 Start of MBA Direct Classes August 22, 2022 January 9, 2023 All applicants will be evaluated for merit-based scholarships. Ready to invest in yourself and your career? Request More Information World Changers Shaped Here Online MBA MBA Direct About Key Dates Events Admissions FAQ Blog © 2022 Cox School of Business | Southern Methodist University PO Box 750333Dallas, Texas75275-0333 cox.mbaonline@smu.edu| 214-842-6486smu.edu Privacy Policy | Terms of Use