COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW WSU News Courtesy Wichita State's Dr. Jeoung Min Lee, assistant professor in the School of Social Work, hopes that her research will help shape anti-bullying programs in K-12 schools. August 09, 2021school of social workResearchGrowing Innovation and ResearchFairmount College of Liberal Arts and SciencesFaculty/Staff WSU researcher advocates for a community approach to stop bullying By Sara Ornelas, Marketing Content Strategist Multidimensional support systems are the key to preventing bullying and cyberbullying and can help lessen the psychosocial side effects of being a victim of bullying, according to a study done by one Wichita State researcher. “To prevent school bullying and cyberbullying, teachers, parents, siblings, peers, neighbors, community, job status, religion and school policy must be involved in the prevention program,” said Dr. Jeoung Min Lee, assistant professor in Wichita State University’s School of Social Work. For her research, Lee collected data from 261 Wichita State students and learned that 213 of the subjects had bullying experiences during their K-12 schooling, and 160 of those had recent cyberbullying experiences. About 75% of bullied students are currently experiencing cyberbullying, according to Lee’s research. “I found that bullying is associated with cyberbullying,” she said. “If students had previous bullying experiences during K-12 school years, they are more likely to become victims of cyberbullying in college.” Additionally, victims of cyberbullying have psychosocial problems. “They have higher levels of depression and hopelessness, suicidal thoughts and attempted suicide,” Lee said. “However, I found that supportive teachers and parents are protective factors against becoming cyberbullying victims.” To prevent bullying in middle and high school, teachers and school social workers need to be involved in bullying intervention programs, care for students’ needs, and sensitively understand students’ problems, Lee said. “Also, parental support is another protective factor, so parents’ supportive caring, monitoring of their child’s behaviors, and good communication with their child are very important to prevent cyberbullying victimization,” she said. Lee is hoping that her research will help inform anti-bullying programs in the United States. “The most well-known famous bullying programs conducted are from Europe, but they are not effective for U.S. students we have more diversity in our schools,” she said. “To provide an adequate program for U.S. students, we need more research to find risk and protective factors to reflect the array of diversity in our schools.” Lee hopes the findings of her research will help modify the current bullying programs in the United States. To mitigate the psychosocial effects of bullying and cyberbullying, Lee says, it’s important to use a community approach to reach children in middle school and high school. “School teachers and social workers will be instrumental in bullying prevention, and they may need to receive additional education and training in how to handle bullying incidents,” she said. When a student begins college, parents are instrumental in helping to minimize the impact of bullying. School of Social Work The School of Social Work at Wichita State University prepares its students to enter one of the most rewarding and challenging professions in the human services. WSU offers fully accredited bachelor's and master's programs that take advantage of the university's location in the state's largest city. Learn more about WSU's School of Social Work Read more stories like this Related Stories computer science Wichita State team will help Kansas communities deal with natural disasters Talent Pipeline NIAR WERX announces MRO program expansion with Erickson Precision Ventures Talent Pipeline Beyond the Classroom: Alia Michaelis Aviation As passengers return, airline performance dips in Airline Quality Ratings 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©