Skip to main content MyUW Calendar Directories Libraries UW Medicine Maps UW News Helpful Links Computing/IT ISC/Workday Husky Card UW Bothell UW Tacoma UW Facebook UW Twitter University of Washington University of Washington Students Parents Faculty & Staff Alumni Quick Links About Our Units Working at UW Student Life COVID-19 Info & Updates Support Student Life Living & dining On-Campus Housing Off-Campus Housing Fraternity Housing Sorority Housing Residential Dining Husky Den Food Court Groups & activities Associated Students of UW CIRCLE The Daily Ethnic Cultural Center Fraternity and Sorority Life Graduate and Professional Student Senate The HUB Husky Neighborhood Interns Peer Health Educators Q Center Recreation Residential Life Student Activities Office Unite UW: Once united, never divided Health Campus Food Pantry Counseling Crisis Connections Emergency Care Health Advocacy, Training & Education Medical Care Mental Health Recreation Digital Wellness 101: Taking Control of Your Life Online Task Force on Student Mental Health Campus safety Bias Incident Advisory Committee Community Standards and Student Conduct Husky NightWalk SafeCampus Sexual Assault Resources Student Care and Consultation UW Police Department UWPD Victim Advocacy Career prep Career & Internship Center Finding and maximizing campus jobs Blog Student Life Menu About Our Units Working at UW Student Life COVID-19 Info & Updates Support Student Life Living & dining On-Campus Housing Off-Campus Housing Fraternity Housing Sorority Housing Residential Dining Husky Den Food Court Groups & activities Associated Students of UW CIRCLE The Daily Ethnic Cultural Center Fraternity and Sorority Life Graduate and Professional Student Senate The HUB Husky Neighborhood Interns Peer Health Educators Q Center Recreation Residential Life Student Activities Office Unite UW: Once united, never divided Health Campus Food Pantry Counseling Crisis Connections Emergency Care Health Advocacy, Training & Education Medical Care Mental Health Recreation Digital Wellness 101: Taking Control of Your Life Online Task Force on Student Mental Health Campus safety Bias Incident Advisory Committee Community Standards and Student Conduct Husky NightWalk SafeCampus Sexual Assault Resources Student Care and Consultation UW Police Department UWPD Victim Advocacy Career prep Career & Internship Center Finding and maximizing campus jobs Blog Home Student Life Messages to the Community Spring 2022 Resources & Opportunities (Vol. 3) – Husky Pawket Guide May 3, 2022 Spring 2022 Resources & Opportunities (Vol. 3) – Husky Pawket Guide Hi Huskies, Amidst midterms and the many roles and responsibilities that come with being a student, a reminder to please make time to relax and care for yourself. Nothing is more important than your health and well-being! Be sure to check out the opportunities below to build community and continue having a successful spring. A note for graduates – Don’t miss the special Commencement section with news and reminders to help you prepare for the celebration! Contents Health and Safety Connecting with Community Mental Health Moment Career and Internships Navigating UW Commencement 1. Health and Safety Due to increased COVID-19 cases in our region, wearing a well-fitted, high-quality mask (e.g., KN95, N95, KF94 and surgical masks) indoors is now strongly recommended. These types of masks provide you with more protection than a cloth face covering and are available for free in several locations on each campus. Bloodworks NW Donation Drive: Consider helping our community by giving blood on the UW Seattle campus, May 16-17 or June 2-3. Make sure to check the sign-up link for appointments to ensure that there are still available slots! You can find out fast about possible COVID-19 exposures through the WA Notify app — it’s free and anonymous. The SafeZone App helps you get the right assistance quickly with just a tap of your phone. IF YOU HAVE COVID-19 SYMPTOMS If you are currently experiencing COVID-19 symptoms, please stay home and follow the instructions for what to do if you feel sick. Back to top 2. Connecting with Community UWild Adventures offers a wide variety of opportunities for learning and exploration to help you get outdoors. May the Fourth Be With You! Stop by the HUB on May 4 for a Star Wars Pop-Up Play and build your own lightsaber! RSOs are busy this month…Make sure to check out JSA’s Matsuri on May 7, ISA’s Keraton on May 7, Hui Hoaloha ‘Ulana’s Spring Luau on May 14, TSA’s Night Market on May 14, or Desi Dhamaka on May 15. Support your Dawgs – Dawg Pack tickets go on sale May 6, UW Rowing hosts the Netherland men’s and Great Britain women’s national teams May 7, or bring your pup to Husky Ballpark for Bark in the Park on May 7. Go Huskies! Dabble much? Check out all the Perks & Recreation Housing & Food Services has to offer including classes, programs, and spaces like Area 01, The MILL, and The 8. ASUW Arts + Entertainment presents Spring Show 2022 on May 13. Stay tuned for this year’s line-up… EVENTS & OPPORTUNITIES The UW Seattle Campus Calendar highlights opportunities to get involved around campus and connect with other Huskies. Back to top 3. Mental Health Moment Peer Wellness Coaching connects students with trained peers to identify areas of growth and barriers to success in order to help you strengthen and enhance personal well-being, solve problems effectively, and work toward intentional change in life. Learn more and schedule. NEED TO TALK? 24/7 consultation from a counselor is available to UW students through My Student Support Program (My SSP). If you are feeling overwhelmed, concerned about a friend, or you’re not sure what you need but you’d like to talk, My SSP is a great option. My SSP provides same-day, confidential mental health and crisis intervention support, 24/7 and in multiple languages. Connect via phone, online chat, or the My SSP app. Learn more at mentalhealth.uw.edu. Back to top 4. Career and Internships Applications for the fall Industry Mentorship Program are now open! The Industry Mentorship Program (1 credit) provides undergrads a glimpse of what it’s like to work in an industry and what it takes to get there. Fall quarter will feature ‘Non-Tech in Tech’ and applications are due May 10. FEATURED JOBS & COURSES There are jobs and internships out there, and it’s as important as ever to build your skills, experience, and network. Here are a few things you may want to check out: Job/internship postings (undergrad): Seattle Art Museum – Emerging Arts Leader Intern Applications due May 25 Trane Technologies – Service Coordinator Applications due June 30 Kaiser Permanente – Strategic Market Planning Analyst Applications due May 27 EVERY – Data Scientist Intern Applications due June 10 AECOM – Entry Level Industrial Hygienist Applications due December 30 NewsChannel 21 – Multimedia Journalist Applications due June 15 Job/internship postings (graduate): Allen Institute – Scientist, Biologically Realistic Modeling – Mindscope Applications due May 31 Washington State Department of Ecology – Forest and Fish Hydrogeologist Applications due May 10 Conception – Bioinformatician Applications due August 1 Two Chairs – Psychotherapist Applications due September 30 Fred Hutchinson Cancer Center – Post-Doctoral Research Fellow Applications due May 20 Vectra – Data Scientist Applications due May 23 CAREER SUPPORT The Career & Internship Center is here to support you with guidance and resources, including Handshake, UW’s online job and internship platform. Back to top 5. Navigating UW Meet your 2022-23 ASUW Board of Directors! Graduate and Professional Students interested in running for a GPSS officer position – candidate applications are due May 9; Elections are May 18 Free PathwayU Career Assessments: Discover your passion and connect it to college and careers. Take assessments to gain insights on your interests, values, personality, and workplace preferences and get a list of career matches to explore. With a ton of free workshops and special events, there is something happening nearly every day of the month at #YourUWLibrary! Check-out what’s happening this month, plus learn about new hours for the end of the quarter and summer operations. Is your media usage helping or hurting your well-being? Learn about the positive and negative impacts of media consumption at your own pace with LiveWell Peer Health Educators’ Media Literacy Booklet. Considering grad school, but not sure about how to pay for it? Learn how to navigate funding resources at UW Libraries’ Finding Funding for Graduate School workshop on May 19. UW Emergency Aid assists students who are experiencing unexpected financial hardships that may disrupt their education or prevent them from earning their UW degree, including food insecurity, emergency medical/dental costs, family emergencies, and more. ACADEMIC ACCOMMODATIONS Students with disabilities can request academic accommodations at any time through the Disability Resources for Students office. Learn more about accommodations. Back to top 6. Commencement Ready, set, graduate! Get ready to participate in Commencement by reviewing the graduation checklist. Participating in Commencement in Husky Stadium? Need a cap and gown or other regalia? Fill out the Registration/Order Form, May 4 – 22. Don’t miss the over 100 college, school, department and cultural commencement ceremonies! You are a Husky for life! The UW Alumni Association is rewarding your achievement with a gift… free digital membership, good for one year! And don’t miss these grad events: Graduate and professional students – join the Graduate & Professional Student Senate and UWAA in Sylvan Grove on May 13 for a toast to the future! Free donuts and coffee for grads! Grab a snack and take a picture with UWAA’s giant inflatable Husky on May 16 from 9am-12pm in Red Square. CONGRADULATIONS! Keep us up-to-date on your graduation celebrations using #uwgrad22 Learn more at washington.edu/graduation. Back to top Sign up for future Pawket Guide emails: Connect with us Email us or call 206-543-4972 Blog Spring 2022 Resources & Opportunities (Vol. 4) – Husky Pawket Guide 2 weeks ago Spring 2022 Resources & Opportunities (Vol. 3) – Husky Pawket Guide 4 weeks ago Spring 2022 Resources & Opportunities (Vol. 2) – Husky Pawket Guide 1 month ago Useful links Academic resources Academic calendar Disability Resources for Students Student Guide Libraries MyPlan MyUW Academic advising Diversity resources UAA Financial services Financial aid Tuition and fees Husky Card Getting around Campus map Transportation options U-PASS Student Life staff site University of Washington Be boundless Connect with us: Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Pinterest Accessibility Contact Us Jobs Campus Safety My UW Rules Docket Privacy Terms Newsletter © 2022 University of Washington | Seattle, WA