COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW College of Health Professions Advising Center Section Menu CHP Student Advising Center Home New CHP Students Transfer Students Application for Degree Degree Check Sheets Exceptions Petition Scholarships Student Groups College of Health Professions Home Staff Directory Contact Us Student Recognition and Awards Information Sessions The College of Health Professions (CHP) Advising Center is committed to staying connected with our students. Keeping health and safety in mind for our students and staff, all advising services are available via remote options. CHP Degrees Location & Hours Scholarships College of Health Professions (CHP) Advising Center Welcome to the CHP Advising Center! CHP advisors are dedicated to helping students reach their academic and professional career goals. If you have questions about CHP majors, applying to our undergraduate professional programs, university policies, your academic plan, transfer courses, or resources on campus, contact us for assistance. Office Hours: Monday - Friday, 8 a.m. - 5 p.m. Appointments are available via Zoom, phone, or in-person. Contact us if you need assistance outside of our normal business hours. Phone: 316-978-3304, option 2 Email: chp.advisor@wichita.edu We offer the following types of appointments: Prospective Student Appointments If you plan to transfer to Wichita State in the future and have questions about CHP undergraduate programs and/or want to review how your transfer courses apply to program prerequisites. Shocker Connection Appointments for New Students If you are newly admitted to the university as a transfer student or returning adult student, have been assigned a WSU ID (A123B123), and are ready to enroll. Current Student Appointments If you are a current student continuing at Wichita State, you can schedule an appointment via https://wichita.campus.eab.com. Triage Advising During office hours, an advisor is available to provide immediate assistance for general questions. A follow-up appointment may need to be scheduled. To connect with an advisor, call 316-978-3304 option #2 or email us at chp.advisor@wichita.edu. First-Year Undergraduate Students (students starting college at Wichita State directly out of high school): contact your first-year advisor for assistance. If you have specific questions about CHP majors, your long-term education plan, or applying to your professional program, CHP advisors are happy to help. Connect with us by email (chp.advisor@wichita.edu) or schedule an appointment via this link: https://wichita.campus.eab.com. Students who are registered nurses and registered dental hygienists have a dedicated advisor for online degree completion programs. Schedule an appointment by calling 316-978-7332. Transferring to Wichita State If you plan to transfer to Wichita State University, you should start working with an academic advisor in the CHP Advising Center to get information on admission deadlines and curriculum. For students currently enrolled at a Kansas community college we offer dual advising. Dual advising allows students planning to transfer to WSU to develop a plan of study, avoid unnecessary enrollment duplication and receive up-to-date information. To get started, complete the Dual Advising Form. Learn More Social Media Links / News CHP Facebook CHP Twitter WSU NEWS I am a: New Student Graduating Student Prospective Student Transfer Student I need help finding: Degree Check Sheets Exception Petition Scholarships Student Organizations 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©