Skip to content Summer 2022: Coronavirus Information Learn More Harvard Summer School Harvard Division of Continuing Education Adult & College Students Course Formats & Technology Explore Courses Course Registration Tuition, Fees and Payment Summer Academic Calendar Harvard College Students High School Students Experience Harvard 2-Week Pre-College Program 7-Week Flexible Secondary School Program Events Study Abroad Browse Programs How To Apply Costs and Funding Policies and Safety For Admitted Students Students in Need of Accommodations For Students Campus Life Support and Services Policies and Regulations Activities, Athletics, and Museums Blog About Meet the Dean Our Mission MyDCE Login Request Info Harvard Summer School Harvard Division of Continuing Education Study at Harvard This Summer Course Formats & Technology Explore Courses Course Registration Browse Courses Tuition, Fees and Payment Summer Academic Calendar Harvard College Students College Programs for High School Students 2-Week Residential Pre-College Program Browse Pre-College Courses 7-Week Flexible Secondary School Program Browse Secondary School Courses Events Study Abroad Browse Programs How To Apply Costs and Funding For Students MyDCE Login Activities, Athletics, and Museums Campus Life Support and Services Policies and Regulations About Mission Meet The Dean Contact Us Media Requests Harvard Summer School Blog Forms Summer Jobs for Harvard Students Website Archives Privacy Statement Start your education journey today. Request Info Student Login Twitter Facebook YouTube Instagram Study at Harvard This Summer Summer Courses for Adult and College Students 2022 Summer Session Dates 7-Week Session June 21–August 6 3-Week Session I June 21 – July 7 3-Week Session II July 10 – July 29 Find a Course With more than 400 open-enrollment courses in over 60 subjects, Harvard Summer School can help you discover your passion and achieve your academic and professional goals. Browse 2022 Courses Your Summer School Experience In our classrooms — no matter in person or online — you’ll find: Harvard faculty and industry experts dedicated to helping you expand your skills and sparking intellectual curiosity A rigorous, inclusive learning environment filled with rich interactions An intensive curriculum designed to be completed in a shorter summer session than a fall or spring semester An international network of peers like you—driven, curious, and committed to growth Access to Harvard’s renowned libraries, museums, and computer labs Course Registration and Deadlines Hanne Twedt Berli The professors offered valuable tips and encouragement throughout my courses. I was not used to having professors who knew every student’s name and backgrounds, but the professors I had at Harvard truly made an effort to get to know all of us.Meet Hanne Twedt Berli Interested in joining us this summer? Sign up for our email list to receive updates on courses and registration. Get Information Course Formats You can take Harvard Summer School courses in a variety of formats, so you can find the option that works best with your schedule. Course formats include: Online (live synchronous or asynchronous) On campus at Harvard Online with one intensive on-campus weekend Types of Courses Browse Courses by Topic Arts, Writing, and the Humanities View More Comparative Literature Creative Writing Dramatic Arts English Expository Writing Film and Visual Arts History of Art and Architecture Humanities Journalism Linguistics Museum Studies Music Philosophy Business & Economics View More Management Economics Computer Science, Math, and Engineering View More Applied Math Computer Science Digital Media Engineering Sciences Information Management Systems Mathematics Review Math Statistics Foreign Languages and Literatures View More Arabic Celtic Languages and Literatures Chinese French German Greek Italian Japanese Korean Latin Russian Sanskrit Spanish Ukrainian Uyghur Sciences View More Astronomy Biology Biotechnology Chemistry Environmental Studies Earth and Planetary Sciences Mind, Brain, and Behavior Physics Psychology Study of Societies, Past and Present View More African and African American Studies Anthropology Government History History of Science Legal Studies Religion Social Sciences Sociology Women, Gender, and Sexuality Studies Explore Courses Learn more about the options you can choose from at Harvard Summer School — from our most popular courses to specially-designed Career Pathways and Summer Seminars. Learn About Course Options Ready to get started? Find your summer course. Registration is Open Who takes Harvard Summer School courses? Harvard Extension Degree and Certificate Students: You can make progress toward a certificate or degree during the summer. Taking a single course over the summer can help you accelerate your path to a credential. Learn more about graduate certificates or degrees offered through Harvard Extension School. If you’re a current Harvard Extension School student, see information for Extension students on taking Summer School courses. College Students: Any college student, whether enrolled at Harvard College or another university, can take a Harvard Summer School course for college credit. Whether you want to complete a general education course over the summer, or if there is a course or professor at Harvard you’re interested in, all you need to do is register. Lifelong Learners: The summer can be the perfect time to explore a subject you’re curious about. Maybe you’ve always wanted to learn a new language or study psychology, or maybe you’re in a career that has changed since you earned your degree and you want to update your knowledge of a topic such as computer science. Harvard Summer School has hundreds of courses to choose from, and they’re open-enrollment. International Students: Harvard Summer School sponsors F-1 student visas for international students enrolling full time for credit in courses on campus. Learn more about taking courses as an international student. Enrolled at Harvard? Harvard Extension School Students If you’re looking for summer courses that apply toward a degree or certificate, the Extension School course catalog includes options to search for Summer School courses. Harvard College Students Many summer courses count toward your degree if taken for credit after matriculating at Harvard College. Start your education journey today. Request Info Follow Harvard Summer School Twitter Facebook Instagram YouTube Harvard Division of Continuing Education A division of Harvard University dedicated to bringing rigorous programs and innovative online teaching capabilities to distance learners, working professionals, high school students, college students, and those seeking higher learning in retirement. Harvard Extension School Harvard degrees, certificates and courses—online, in the evenings, and at your own pace. Harvard Summer School Academic summer opportunities for adult, college and high school students—at Harvard and abroad. Harvard Professional Development Short, intensive programs to develop skills and strengthen your professional profile. Harvard Institute for Learning in Retirement Peer learning in the liberal arts—a community program for retired and semi-retired professionals. Harvard Division of Continuing Education Privacy Statement Accessibility Rights & Regulations Digital Accessibility Policy Harvard.edu Cookie Settings Copyright ©2022 President and Fellows of Harvard College