Skip to main content Skip to main navigation College of Arts & Sciences Menu About A Message from the Dean History of the College Academic Departments Arts & Sciences News Arts & Sciences Magazine A & S Magazine Archives A & S Magazine - Spring 2020 A & S Magazine - Fall 2020 A & S Magazine - Spring 2019 A & S Magazine - Fall 2019 A & S Magazine - Spring 2018 A & S Magazine - Fall 2018 A & S Magazine - Spring 2017 A & S Magazine - Fall 2017 A & S Magazine - Spring 2016 A & S Magazine - Fall 2016 A & S Magazine - Spring 2015 A & S Magazine - Fall 2015 A & S Magazine - Spring 2014 A & S Magazine - Fall 2014 A & S Magazine - Spring 2013 A & S Magazine - Fall 2013 Arts & Sciences Quick Facts Arts & Sciences Vision Board of Advocates Dean's Office Contacts James Vardaman Endowed Professorship Majors in Arts & Sciences Prominent Alumni Search Arts & Sciences Strategic Plan Introduction Pillar 1 - The Christian Educational Environment Pillar 2 - Transformational Undergraduate Education Pillar 3 - Research Pillar 4 - Human Performance in the Arts Pillar 5 - Fostering Diversity, Inclusion and Equity Signature Academic Initiatives Financial Model Appendix Diversity, Equity, & Inclusion DEI in the Curriculum DEI in Faculty & Staff DEI in Research Student Support for DEI Opportunities for DEI Engagement Upcoming Events Arts & Sciences Committees A&S Curriculum Committee A&S Core Curriculum Advisory Committee Creative Arts Experience Committee A&S Faculty Award Nominations Committee Students Attendance Policy Dean's Office Contacts Forms for Current Students Graduation Application Graduation and Commencement BearWeb Degree Audit Graduation Application University Commencement Majors in Arts & Sciences Advisement in Arts & Sciences Changing Your Major or Minor List of Majors in Arts & Sciences Planning for Your Major Prehealth Programs Arts & Sciences Core Curriculum Office of Engaged Learning Registering for Classes Prospective Students Special Academic Programs Scholarships (National and International) Student Life and Activities Calendar Campus Activities Campus Dining Campus Map Counseling Center Lariat Newspaper McLane Student Life Center (SLC) Title IX Office Transfer Credit Various Additional Academic Resources Wintermester Core Curriculum Health Education Baylor Prehealth Programs Baylor2 Medical Track Environmental Health Science Hillis Scholars Program Medical Humanities Science and Health Living & Learning Center Science Research Fellows Tropical Medicine Faculty & Staff Arts & Sciences Core Curriculum General Information Academic Departments and Programs Academic Centers and Institutes Faculty and Staff Directory Faculty Editorships Arts & Sciences Committees Academic Resources Arts & Sciences Technology Center College Retention Goals and Plans Digital Measures Employment in Arts & Sciences Faculty Handbook Faculty Senate Staff Council Tenure Policy Online Teaching Resources Interdisciplinary Programs Research and Career Development Academy for Teaching and Learning Faculty Career Development Grand Challenge (Global Health) Vice Provost for Research Alumni & Parents Alumni and Friends Parents and Families Give Baylor>Arts & Sciences>About>Strategic Plan>Signature Academic Initiatives>Human Flourishing, Leadership and Ethics A&Spire to Illuminate Signature Academic Initiatives HUMAN FLOURISHING, LEADERSHIP AND ETHICS Baptist Studies Center for Research Pro Ecclesia, Pro Texana. Those words embody the mission of Baylor University with an emphasis on both the centricity of ever deepening faith and outstanding academic research that will contribute to the body of knowledge throughout the world. The purpose of the Baptist Studies Center for Research (BSCR) is to influence the future of the global community of Baptists by researching the Baptist story and to influence the future of Baylor University by preserving and enhancing the Baptist narrative as part of the University’s work. Initiated in the Department of Religion where Baptist historians are already at work, BSCR will be an integral part of the College of Arts & Sciences in partnership with three academic areas: the Department of History, the Department of Religion, and the J.M. Dawson Institute for Church-State Studies. Faculty in BSCR will collaborate with departments and other academic units across the Baylor campus, including the George W. Truett Theological Seminary, the Diana R. Garland School of Social Work, and the Baylor University Libraries. Core objectives of the BSCR include sponsoring research in Baptist Studies; promoting a Ph.D. in History and Religion with an emphasis in Baptist Studies; collaborating with Baptist scholarly professional organizations such as the National Association of Baptist Professors of Religion and the Baptist History and Heritage Society; establishing an endowed lecture series focused on Baptist Identity; and sponsoring undergraduate and graduate student travel for research to Baylor sites, as well as other student educational opportunities. The endowed lecture series on the role of religious liberty and the separation of church and state, as central aspects of Baptist identity, will involve collaboration with the J. M. Dawson Institute of Church-State Studies. BSCR will support the work of visiting scholars who are specialists in various dimensions of Baptist studies in order to facilitate research, enhance the work of Baptist undergraduate and graduate students, and present the historic Baptist witness to the public. Although the current ecclesial and academic setting is not friendly to denominational causes, the Baptist story has contributed in a significant manner to the Christian church, cultures, and human flourishing through the centuries. “The preservers of history are as heroic as its makers.” Thus proclaims the lettering on Pat Neff Hall. The BSCR will use the resources of the present to preserve the past, the history of more than 400 years of Baptist tradition, and in so doing contribute to the future of Baptist life. A significant aspect of ensuring that the history and mission of Baylor University continues is to endow a chair in Baptist Studies. The world of church and Baptist life keeps changing, but the move to the future must be informed by history and theological tradition. Research supported by the BSCR will inform that present and future life by providing the logical context for this work. The endowed chair and a vibrant BSCR will ensure an ongoing Baptist voice at Baylor and contribute to both Ecclesia and Texana. Goal 1: Implement the Baptist Studies Center for Research. Action Steps 1.1 Seek funding opportunities to endow the initiative or to endow components of it through endowed chairs by using the University match program. 1.2 Seek University support to expand this program incrementally through faculty and staff lines, including startup and facilities costs. 1.3 Depending on the success of the program, consider the formation of a Center that includes an administrative structure. Center for Ethics The theme of ethical decision-making is represented in each of Illuminate’s Signature Academic Initiatives, from research on health and the environment; use of data and development of materials; and creation of systems where humans can flourish in the United States, in Latin America, and throughout the world. Consistently exhibiting ethical behavior allows us to organize our actions and pursuits to a particular end, distinguishing between good and evil, right and wrong, or virtue and vice. Baylor University as a Christian institution is openly and self-consciously invested in seeking to do good in all aspects of its existence as it strives to serve the church and the world — Pro Ecclesia, Pro Texana. The Center for Ethics initiative will use three complementary strategies to achieve success: developing ethical literacy; cultivating research and creative activity; and expanding outreach and community engagement. To develop ethical literacy, the Center for Ethics will incorporate ethics into the curriculum at both the undergraduate and graduate levels by offering a collection of undergraduate minors in ethics, offering a graduate certificate in ethics (effectively a minor/concentration), creating an MA in Bioethics, and creating a Certificate in Clinical Ethics. To cultivate transdisciplinary research and creative activity, efforts will be classified into six motifs: Ethical Theory, Virtue, and Character; Health and Bioethics; Aesthetics and Ethics; Science and Environmental Ethics; Military Ethics; and Race, Religion, and Civic Life. Furthermore, outreach and community engagement by the Center for Ethics will involve the development of ethics resources, cultivating international relationships, and supporting the Fellowship of Protestant Ethicists. In order to support current faculty, funding for this initiative will enable Arts & Sciences to hire seven additional faculty who possess training and expertise in ethics and who are capable of leading conversation in the research motifs. Funds dedicated to this initiative will provide a competitive ethics research fellowship to enable a researcher to join the Center for Ethics for a semester. In partnership with the ATL, the Center will create team-led Faculty Seminars in the summer to provide current faculty time and assistance in refining courses appropriate for inclusion in an ethics minor. These seminars will facilitate networking among faculty who share the interests and goals inherent in this initiative and lead to on-going collaborations by the faculty fellows. Postdoctoral Fellowships are high-profile research positions with significant independence and resources to attract some of the best young scholars who will interact closely with faculty and students. To provide continual enrichment of ethics research and teaching on campus and to equip select Ph.D. graduates from around the world who possess unique skills and experiences that will enable subsequent placement in R1 faculty positions, the Initiative will hire one new postdoctoral fellow each year. A prospective postdoctoral fellow can apply to work within any of the six research areas and will teach in the department most closely aligned the fellow’s research specializations. These fellowships provide stipends, along with travel funds, supplies, and other resources to help with their research. The research programs that develop around human flourishing and ethics will provide a single venue dedicated to addressing the ethical, social, and technological challenges facing the contemporary world. Baylor will support bold and distinctive cooperation between a variety of academic disciplines and methodologies charged with advancing teaching, research, and application in the broad aspects of human flourishing and ethics. Goal 1: Implement the Center for Ethics. Action Steps 1.1 Form a committee of faculty and staff to identify strategic areas of academic strength. Year 1: Currently, 44 faculty members are engaged in ethics-related research and curricular development organized around six working groups: Bioethics; Data Ethics; Ethics in the Professions; Fundamentals of Ethics; Global Ethics; and Science of Human Flourishing. The Center would draw participants from 11 academic units across campus (Law School, George W. Truett Theological Seminary, Hankamer School of Business, Louise Herrington School of Nursing, Robbins College of health and Human Sciences, Institute for Studies of Religion (ISR), Honors College, University Libraries, Diana R. Garland School of Social Work, School of Engineering & Computer Science, and College of Arts & Sciences). A Certificate in Bioethics has been approved; a Certificate in Data Ethics is in progress; and an MA in Global Ethics (offered jointly with Hong Kong Baptist University) is in progress. Over the past three years, preliminary scholarly activity by the research groups has resulted in 82 publications and 58 presentations on ethics-related topics. In April 2021, the Center sponsored two public events: "Dignity for Deeply Forgetful People: How Caregivers Meet the Challenges of Alzheimer's Disease: A Conversation with Stephen Post," and "The Myrick and Steuernagel Book Launch," an Ethics in the Professions program held in cooperation with the Baylor School of Music. 1.2 Seek funding opportunities to endow the collaborative or to endow components of it through endowed chairs by using the University match program. 1.3 Seek University support to expand the program incrementally through faculty and staff lines, including startup and facilities costs. 1.4 Depending on the success of the program, consider the formation of a Center that includes an administrative structure. About A Message from the Dean History of the College Academic Departments Arts & Sciences News Arts & Sciences Magazine A & S Magazine Archives A & S Magazine - Spring 2020 A & S Magazine - Fall 2020 A & S Magazine - Spring 2019 A & S Magazine - Fall 2019 A & S Magazine - Spring 2018 A & S Magazine - Fall 2018 A & S Magazine - Spring 2017 A & S Magazine - Fall 2017 A & S Magazine - Spring 2016 A & S Magazine - Fall 2016 A & S Magazine - Spring 2015 A & S Magazine - Fall 2015 A & S Magazine - Spring 2014 A & S Magazine - Fall 2014 A & S Magazine - Spring 2013 A & S Magazine - Fall 2013 Arts & Sciences Quick Facts Arts & Sciences Vision Board of Advocates Dean's Office Contacts James Vardaman Endowed Professorship Majors in Arts & Sciences Prominent Alumni Search Arts & Sciences Strategic Plan Introduction Pillar 1 - The Christian Educational Environment Pillar 2 - Transformational Undergraduate Education Pillar 3 - Research Pillar 4 - Human Performance in the Arts Pillar 5 - Fostering Diversity, Inclusion and Equity Signature Academic Initiatives Health Materials Science Human Flourishing, Leadership and Ethics Baylor in Latin America Data Sciences Financial Model Appendix Diversity, Equity, & Inclusion DEI in the Curriculum DEI in Faculty & Staff DEI in Research Student Support for DEI Opportunities for DEI Engagement Upcoming Events Arts & Sciences Committees A&S Curriculum Committee A&S Core Curriculum Advisory Committee Creative Arts Experience Committee A&S Faculty Award Nominations Committee Show More General Information Colleges, Schools, Libraries & Research Admissions Administration Gateways For... About Baylor Anonymous Reporting Athletics Ask Baylor Bookstore Calendar Campus Map Directory Give Light Give to Baylor Illuminate Mental Health Resources News Pro Futuris Report It Search Social Media Title IX Baylor Libraries College of Arts & Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work George W. Truett Theological Seminary Graduate School Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Louise Herrington School of Nursing Research at Baylor University Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Engineering & Computer Science School of Music More Academics Undergraduate Admissions goBAYLOR Graduate Admissions Baylor Law School Admissions Social Work Graduate Programs George W. Truett Theological Seminary Admissions Online Graduate Professional Education Virtual Tour Visit Campus Annual Fire Safety and Security Notice Athletics Human Resources Marketing and Communications Office of General Counsel Office of the President Office of the Provost Operations, Finance & Administration Senior Administration Student Life University Advancement Baylor Alumni Faculty & Staff Online Graduate Professional Education Parents Prospective Faculty & Staff Prospective Students Students College of Arts & Sciences College of Arts & Sciences One Bear Place #97344 Waco, TX 76798-7344 (254) 710-3361 Facebook Twitter Copyright © Baylor® University. All rights reserved. Legal Disclosures. Baylor University • Waco, Texas 76798 • 1-800-229-5678 About A Message from the Dean History of the College Academic Departments Arts & Sciences News Arts & Sciences Magazine A & S Magazine Archives A & S Magazine - Spring 2020 A & S Magazine - Fall 2020 A & S Magazine - Spring 2019 A & S Magazine - Fall 2019 A & S Magazine - Spring 2018 A & S Magazine - Fall 2018 A & S Magazine - Spring 2017 A & S Magazine - Fall 2017 A & S Magazine - Spring 2016 A & S Magazine - Fall 2016 A & S Magazine - Spring 2015 A & S Magazine - Fall 2015 A & S Magazine - Spring 2014 A & S Magazine - Fall 2014 A & S Magazine - Spring 2013 A & S Magazine - Fall 2013 Arts & Sciences Quick Facts Arts & Sciences Vision Board of Advocates Dean's Office Contacts James Vardaman Endowed Professorship Majors in Arts & Sciences Prominent Alumni Search Arts & Sciences Strategic Plan Introduction Pillar 1 - The Christian Educational Environment Pillar 2 - Transformational Undergraduate Education Pillar 3 - Research Pillar 4 - Human Performance in the Arts Pillar 5 - Fostering Diversity, Inclusion and Equity Signature Academic Initiatives Health Materials Science Human Flourishing, Leadership and Ethics Baylor in Latin America Data Sciences Financial Model Appendix Diversity, Equity, & Inclusion DEI in the Curriculum DEI in Faculty & Staff DEI in Research Student Support for DEI Opportunities for DEI Engagement Upcoming Events Arts & Sciences Committees A&S Curriculum Committee A&S Core Curriculum Advisory Committee Creative Arts Experience Committee A&S Faculty Award Nominations Committee Students Attendance Policy Dean's Office Contacts Forms for Current Students Graduation Application Graduation and Commencement BearWeb Degree Audit Graduation Application University Commencement Majors in Arts & Sciences Advisement in Arts & Sciences Changing Your Major or Minor List of Majors in Arts & Sciences Planning for Your Major Prehealth Programs Arts & Sciences Core Curriculum Office of Engaged Learning Registering for Classes Prospective Students Special Academic Programs Scholarships (National and International) Student Life and Activities Calendar Campus Activities Campus Dining Campus Map Counseling Center Lariat Newspaper McLane Student Life Center (SLC) Title IX Office Transfer Credit Various Additional Academic Resources Wintermester Core Curriculum Health Education Baylor Prehealth Programs Baylor2 Medical Track Environmental Health Science Hillis Scholars Program Medical Humanities Science and Health Living & Learning Center Science Research Fellows Tropical Medicine Faculty & Staff Arts & Sciences Core Curriculum General Information Academic Departments and Programs Academic Centers and Institutes Faculty and Staff Directory Faculty Editorships Arts & Sciences Committees Academic Resources Arts & Sciences Technology Center College Retention Goals and Plans Digital Measures Employment in Arts & Sciences Faculty Handbook Faculty Senate Staff Council Tenure Policy Online Teaching Resources Interdisciplinary Programs Research and Career Development Academy for Teaching and Learning Faculty Career Development Grand Challenge (Global Health) Vice Provost for Research Alumni & Parents Alumni and Friends Parents and Families Give