COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW Details: Nursing - Nursing Education, Master's Master'sNursing - Nursing Education All Programs College of Health Professions School of Nursing Take your nursing career to the next level with a Master of Science in nursing (MSN) from Wichita State University. This full- or part-time totally online program builds on your professional experience, to help you become a qualified nursing educator. Learn how Nursing Education is the right fit for you. Request Info Start Your Application Applied learning at Wichita State At Wichita State, applied learning is everything. In fact, every degree we offer has a guaranteed applied learning or research experience built right into it equipping you with the relevant skills and experience to make you workforce ready before graduation. Learn about our innovative approach Admission to the program In addition to the general university requirements for admission to graduate studies, the School of Nursing requires: A bachelor’s degree with a major in nursing from a nationally accredited (NLN or CCNE) school Admission to the WSU Graduate School A minimum 3.0 GPA in the last 60 hours of nursing undergraduate coursework School of Nursing approval For additional admission details, click on the link below. Admission requirements Curriculum All students must identify their concentration through the school of nursing admission process and take all required courses with a minimum total of 36 credit hours for leadership/administration and a minimum of 37 credit hours for education MSN degrees. View the curriculum Careers A nursing degree from Wichita State will give you the knowledge and practical skills for high-paying, high-demand nursing careers in diverse health care settings such as hospitals, nursing and residential care facilities, schools and government. Learn more about careers in this field 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©