COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW Details: Special Education - High Incidence Alternative Certification, Master's Master'sSpecial Education - High Incidence Alternative Certification All Programs College of Applied Studies Intervention Services and Leadership in Education Wichita State’s Master of Education (MEd) in special education—high incidence alternative certification program—provides paraprofessionals holding a bachelor’s degree outside of the field of education with a route to becoming a special education teacher of record. This fully online program prepares reflective practitioners who possess both theoretical understanding and practical skills for teaching students with mild to moderate disabilities. Learn how Special Education - High Incidence Alternative Certification is the right fit for you. Request Info Start Your Application Applied learning at Wichita State At Wichita State, applied learning is everything. In fact, every degree we offer has a guaranteed applied learning or research experience built right into it equipping you with the relevant skills and experience to make you workforce ready before graduation. Learn about our innovative approach Admission to the program The special education—high incidence alternative certification degree—is available for paraprofessionals holding a bachelor’s degree outside the field of education. Admission requirements include: Admission into the WSU Graduate School Employment verification Letter of recommendation For additional details, click the link below. Admission requirements Inside the Program Cousin with autism inspires student to write book WSU student Amy Lightfoot has authored a children’s book titled “My Cousin Lili.” The book is the real-life story about Lightfoot and how her cousin Lilian, who has autism spectrum disorder, inspired her to understand and love people with disabilities. Curriculum The high incidence alternative certification program curriculum comprises 37-38 credit hours of online coursework and prepares you to work with students with mild to moderate disabilities. The program combines coursework, practical experience and a capstone project or thesis. View the curriculum Careers A graduate degree from Wichita State’s College of Applied Studies will give you the knowledge, skills and confidence to make a positive impact in the classroom—and on your career. Learn more about careers in this field Similar Programs Special Education - Low Incidence (Master's) Special Education - High Incidence (Master's) 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©