Skip to main content Apply Canvas Map Calendar Library Directory MyUW more_vert more_vert Close Search Tools 25Live Canvas Catalyst Directory IT Help Library MyUW Office365 Panopto Scout Workday Zoom Search Office of the Chancellor Office of the Chancellor About the Chancellor expand_more Biography Campus Communications Contact History of the office Town Halls & Campus Updates UW Tacoma Facts Vision, mission, and values Initiatives expand_more Business Diversity & Equity Program COVID-19 Resources add Health, testing and vaccines Spring Quarter 2022 Frequently Asked Questions Resources for faculty & staff Communications on COVID-19 Husky PACK Pledge Campus Climate Initiative add UW Climate Survey Reports and Implementation Plans UW Climate Survey Response and Implementation Dressel Scholars Program add Mentorship Program Past Dressel Scholars Strategic Planning add Coordinating Committee Administration expand_more Chancellor's Cabinet Directors and deans Advisory Board Campus committees UW Leadership Leadership Searches Recognition & Awards expand_more Chancellor's Medal Distinguished Community Engagement Award Distinguished Librarian Award Distinguished Research Award add Nomination Information Distinguished Service Award Distinguished Teaching Award add Nomination Information President's Medal Divisions expand_more Academic Affairs Advancement Equity & Inclusion Finance & Administration Information Technology Student Affairs MyUW Map Tools Breadcrumb Home Office of the Chancellor Health, testing and vaccines Health, testing and vaccines Getting tested for COVID-19 The following COVID-19 testing options are available at no cost to you: Husky Coronavirus Testing program has self-test kits available on the 1st floor of the Tacoma Paper & Stationery Building (TPS). Finished tests can be placed in the dropbox there as well. The dropbox is available during regular building hours. Kits are available for pick up: Mondays: 9 am - 4:30 pm Tuesdays: 1 - 5 pm Wednesdays: 9 am - 5 pm Thursdays: 1 - 4:30 pm Fridays: 9 am - 5 pm If you are not already enrolled in the testing program, you can enroll online. Pierce County testing sites Public Health – Seattle & King County testing sites Additional testing options UW Medicine offers testing for current patients. Visit the patient portal to make an appointment. Most pharmacies offer COVID-19 testing that is billed to your health insurance. Your personal health care provider may be able to arrange testing. Multilingual information about COVID-19 testing options is available from the Washington State Department of Health. Getting vaccinated In order to protect the health and safety of our community, the University of Washington is requiring all students and employees to be vaccinated against COVID-19, with limited exemptions allowed. Students and UW personnel will need to attest to being fully vaccinated or declare an exemption. All students and personnel should get vaccinated as soon as possible, wherever they are currently living. Vaccines authorized by the United States, by the World Health Organization or by other nations will meet this requirement. More information on COVID-19 vaccines How and where to get vaccinated Vaccinate WA: COVID-19 Vaccine Availability COVID-19 vaccine prioritization guidance UW Medicine COVID-19 vaccines guide Centers for Disease Control and Prevention COVID-19 vaccines page Washington Department of Health COVID-19 vaccines page Tacoma Pierce County Health Department COVID-19 vaccines FAQ Other health resources Student Health Services (students can also use CHI Virtual Urgent Care.) Counseling & Psychological Services is open for phone or videoconference appointments (students only). UW Carelink (faculty and staff only) UW Human Resources site Much more information on health, wellness and prevention is available on the UW central coronavirus FAQ. If you are not feeling well If you are sick with any potential illness, you must stay home, regardless of your vaccination status. COVID-19’s most common symptoms are fever, cough and shortness of breath. If you’re symptomatic, take the following steps to protect yourself and your loved ones: Get tested and stay home until you receive your test result. Husky Coronavirus Testing participants: Report your symptoms in the daily survey to receive testing instructions. You will hear from the UW COVID-19 Response and Prevention Team if you test positive. If you are not enrolled in Husky Coronavirus Testing, you can still sign up for testing through this voluntary research study, or access testing through public testing sites, pharmacies, or potentially your health care provider. To protect the health of other people, do NOT visit a doctor’s office, urgent care clinic or other health facility without notifying them that you may have COVID-19. If you have confirmed or suspected COVID-19, immediately notify the UW COVID-19 Response and Prevention Team at covidehc@uw.edu or 206.616.3344. UW medical center personnel should contact their respective employee health services. Follow public health guidelines to help you recover and protect loved ones from getting sick. Stay home, stay masked and stay 6 feet away from other people and pets whenever possible. For more about the steps you’ll need to take, see our FAQ, “What do I do if I have confirmed or suspected COVID-19?” You can also learn more from Public Health – Seattle & King County and the Washington State Department of Health. If you think you have COVID-19 or have come in contact with someone who has been diagnosed with COVID-19 Stay home. Do not go to campus. Avoid public places. Call your health provider and follow their advice. Students can also use CHI Virtual Urgent Care. STUDENTS: Email Dr. Bernard Anderson, Associate Vice Chancellor for Student Life, at bander48@uw.edu, to learn of available support services and the procedure for academic accommodation. FACULTY AND STAFF: Contact UW’s COVID-19 Response & Prevention Team at covidehc@uw.edu or 206-616-3344. Contact Office of the Chancellor email uwtchancellor@uw.edu phone_iphone 253-692-5646 ACADEMICS Academic advising Academic calendar Canvas Library Schools and programs Study Abroad Teaching and Learning Center CAMPUS Campus Safety Equity & Inclusion Financial Aid Housing Information Technology Student Life University Y Student Center ABOUT UW TACOMA Administration Admissions Institutional Research Jobs Parking & transportation Research UW Alerts UWNetID login UW Seattle | UW Bothell © 2022 University of Washington Tacoma 1900 Commerce Street, Tacoma, WA 98402-3100 Contact us | Terms of Use | Privacy Policy