Global Navigation ISU News Store Contact Us Offices Iowa State University Hello Visitor! Log In or Register About Us About ISU Extension Extension and Outreach Administration Leadership Team Office of the Vice President Organizational Chart NIFA Combined Plans of Work and Final Reports Strategic Plan Resources County Services Iowa Extension Council Association Finance Human Resources Professional Development Diversity and Civil Rights Faculty and Staff Directory Home About ISU Extension and Outreach by mollyd | Mon, 12/27/2010 - 16:23 VISION ISU Extension and Outreach will advance land-grant values by engaging all Iowans in solving today’s problems and preparing for a thriving future. MISSION ISU Extension and Outreach builds a strong Iowa by engaging all Iowans in research, education, and extension experiences to address current and emerging real-life challenges. CORE VALUES The Extension Professional’s Creed embodies ISU Extension and Outreach’s core values for building a strong Iowa in partnership with all Iowans. Read our 2017-2022 Extension and Outreach Strategic Plan. Learn about our land grant legacy. JOIN US! We're your lifelong partner. Join us as a learner, volunteer, or advocate. Learn -- get answers and information you can trust. Call our hotlines. Visit our online store. Subscribe to our blogs. Watch our videos. Visit your county office. Connect with our programs in agriculture and natural resources, community and economic development, human sciences, and 4-H youth development. Volunteer Become one of our 900 elected extension council members and build a #strongIowa in your county. Help Iowa youth learn and discover their potential. Volunteer with 4-H Youth Development. Become a Master Gardener -- share your love for gardening and enhance your community. Visit your county office for more opportunities. Advocate Connect with us: Share our story with your friends and family. Share | Select LanguageEnglishSpanish Related Content Quick Facts about ISU Extension and Outreach Connect with Extension Locate a County Office Follow us on Twitter Find us on Facebook Follow us on Instagram Find us on Linked In Find us on YouTube View our Pinterest boards View our Social Media Directory Blogs Ask a Question Hotlines Primary Links Block Home Disaster Recovery Events Conference Planning Statewide Calendar Upcoming Conferences Educational Areas 4-H Youth Development Agriculture and Natural Resources Community & Economic Development Human Sciences About Us About ISU Extension County Services Faculty and Staff Directory County Services Finance Finance Diversity and Civil Rights Jobs Leadership Team Office of the Vice President Professional Development Program Development and Evaluation Iowa State University Extension and Outreach, (800) 262-3804, 2150 Beardshear Hall, Ames, IA 50011-2031 Copyright © 2022 Iowa State University | Contact Us | Policies | State & National Extension Partners | For Staff | Website Log In