Skip to main content College of Humanities and Social Sciences Menu Close About Contact Us Meet the Dean Stats and Strengths Faculty and Staff Directory Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Dean’s Board Academics Undergraduate Degrees Graduate Degrees Add or Change Majors and Minors Departments What Can I Do With My Degree? Admissions Visit Student Resources Scholarships Career Services Internships, Study Abroad and More Campus Life Advising Research Centers Humanities Extension Program Research Office Faculty and Staff Resources Academic Resources Research Resources Communication Resources Update Your Profile Page Business Services (site) CHASS IT (site) Giving Ways to Give News Events Accolades Magazine COVID-19 Updates About About Contact Us Meet the Dean Stats and Strengths Faculty and Staff Directory Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Dean’s Board Academics Academics Undergraduate Degrees Graduate Degrees Add or Change Majors and Minors Departments What Can I Do With My Degree? Admissions Visit Student Resources Student Resources Scholarships Career Services Internships, Study Abroad and More Campus Life Advising Research Research Centers Humanities Extension Program Research Office Faculty and Staff Resources Faculty and Staff Resources Academic Resources Research Resources Communication Resources Update Your Profile Page Business Services (site) CHASS IT (site) Giving Giving Ways to Give News News Events Accolades Magazine COVID-19 Updates Diversity, Equity and Inclusion We are committed to fostering an environment where all feel valued and appreciated. Our college is a campus leader in promoting and exploring diversity through our words and our actions. Diversity in Thought, Word and Action We know the challenges of racism and inequity can’t be easily fixed. But we’re determined to do all we can to build a community where the voices of the disenfranchised are heard and respected, where change happens, where we are one Pack. We are committed to holding courageous conversations that take place through: Diversity training for all faculty and staff. Workshops that raise awareness. Regular departmental conversations that include students, faculty, staff and administrators. An annual forum on teaching and racism. We are committed to acting on our priorities to confront and address systemic racism in our college by: Recruiting — and retaining — students, faculty and staff from widely diverse backgrounds. Coaching each and every faculty hiring committee at the outset of their recruitment to ensure we reach out to diverse candidates. Creating and implementing intentional ways to ensure that members of diverse backgrounds not only join our college, but become full members of our community. Scholarship, Involvement and Academic Opportunities Our college awards various merit and need-based scholarships. Visit the Pack ASSIST portal to learn about additional opportunities across the university. We have more than two-dozen student organizations that allow students to explore their interests and broaden their perspectives. NC State Multicultural Student Affairs is a great resource for academic support and civic engagement on campus and beyond. Exploring and celebrating diversity English Department Wins Chancellor’s Creating Community Award The English department received a 2022 Chancellor’s Creating Community Award in recognition of its contributions to furthering NC State’s equity, diversity and inclusion (DEI) goals. Fostering Equity Between Race, Disability MALS graduate Baiyina Muhammad aims to amplify the voices and experiences of Black people with disabilities in North Carolina. Humanities and Social Sciences Faculty, Students Lead NC State’s Inaugural Equity Research Symposium More than 35 faculty and students from the College of Humanities and Social Sciences presented their work at NC State’s inaugural equity research symposium. Contact Us Assistant Dean for Diversity Juliana Makuchi Nfah-Abbenyi Distinguished Professor of English and Comparative Literature Phone: 919-513-8057 Office: 212 Tompkins Hall Email: jmphd@ncsu.edu‌ Student Diversity Coordinator Joe Johnson, MSW Phone: 919-513-1832 Office: 106Q Caldwell Hall Email: jwjohns4@ncsu.edu‌ Office for Institutional Equity and Diversity NC State OIED fosters an inclusive, accessible and diverse intellectual and cultural campus experience at NC State. Visit OIED College of Humanities and Social Sciences Home 106 Caldwell Hall Campus Box 8101 Raleigh, NC 27695-8101 919.515.2468 Newsletter Signup Email Email This field is for validation purposes and should be left unchanged. Submit Humanities and Social Sciences Home Contact Us Faculty and Staff Directory Update Your Profile Page News Events Faculty and Staff Resources Accessibility Privacy Connect With Us Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Instagram YouTube © 2022 NC State University. All rights reserved.