Skip to main content MyUW Calendar Directories Libraries UW Medicine Maps UW News Helpful Links Computing/IT ISC/Workday Husky Card UW Bothell UW Tacoma UW Facebook UW Twitter University of Washington University of Washington Students Parents Faculty & Staff Alumni Quick Links About Our Units Working at UW Student Life COVID-19 Info & Updates Support Student Life Living & dining On-Campus Housing Off-Campus Housing Fraternity Housing Sorority Housing Residential Dining Husky Den Food Court Groups & activities Associated Students of UW CIRCLE The Daily Ethnic Cultural Center Fraternity and Sorority Life Graduate and Professional Student Senate The HUB Husky Neighborhood Interns Peer Health Educators Q Center Recreation Residential Life Student Activities Office Unite UW: Once united, never divided Health Campus Food Pantry Counseling Crisis Connections Emergency Care Health Advocacy, Training & Education Medical Care Mental Health Recreation Digital Wellness 101: Taking Control of Your Life Online Task Force on Student Mental Health Campus safety Bias Incident Advisory Committee Community Standards and Student Conduct Husky NightWalk SafeCampus Sexual Assault Resources Student Care and Consultation UW Police Department UWPD Victim Advocacy Career prep Career & Internship Center Finding and maximizing campus jobs Blog Student Life Menu About Our Units Working at UW Student Life COVID-19 Info & Updates Support Student Life Living & dining On-Campus Housing Off-Campus Housing Fraternity Housing Sorority Housing Residential Dining Husky Den Food Court Groups & activities Associated Students of UW CIRCLE The Daily Ethnic Cultural Center Fraternity and Sorority Life Graduate and Professional Student Senate The HUB Husky Neighborhood Interns Peer Health Educators Q Center Recreation Residential Life Student Activities Office Unite UW: Once united, never divided Health Campus Food Pantry Counseling Crisis Connections Emergency Care Health Advocacy, Training & Education Medical Care Mental Health Recreation Digital Wellness 101: Taking Control of Your Life Online Task Force on Student Mental Health Campus safety Bias Incident Advisory Committee Community Standards and Student Conduct Husky NightWalk SafeCampus Sexual Assault Resources Student Care and Consultation UW Police Department UWPD Victim Advocacy Career prep Career & Internship Center Finding and maximizing campus jobs Blog Home Student Life Messages to the Community Spring 2022 Resources & Opportunities (Vol. 2) – Husky Pawket Guide April 20, 2022 Spring 2022 Resources & Opportunities (Vol. 2) – Husky Pawket Guide Hi Huskies, We’re still early in the quarter and there are plenty of ways to get engaged with activities around campus and make the most of your Husky Experience. Below are some opportunities to connect with others, as well as a handful of resources to help you succeed. Contents Health and Safety Connecting with Community Mental Health Moment Career and Internships Navigating UW 1. Health and Safety Being fully vaccinated, including getting a booster shot, continues to be a critical protective measure against COVID for individuals and our communities. See where vaccines are available. It takes all of us to remain vigilant and help mitigate acts of discrimination. Here are some helpful resources from the School of Social Work, including how to report bias incidents and opportunities for bystander intervention training. SafeCampus is available any time if you ever need to anonymously discuss safety and well-being concerns for yourself or others. Work 1:1 with a UW Recreation registered dietitian for individualized nutrition counseling to develop positive eating habits and a healthy relationship with food. IF YOU HAVE COVID-19 SYMPTOMS If you are currently experiencing COVID-19 symptoms, please stay home and follow the instructions for what to do if you feel sick. Back to top 2. Connecting with Community Mighty are the women who wear the purple and the gold! Cheer on the Dawgs as they play Seattle U on April 26 at Husky Softball Stadium. Current UW students can present their Husky Card for free admission to all UW sporting events excluding football and men’s basketball. UW’s CIRCLE offers a variety of engagement opportunities and resources for international students, such as CIRCLE of Friends. Explore RSOs via RCast @ the HUB, a series from the HUB’s Resource Center where leaders of Registered Student Organizations at UW dive into what they do (and why you should join). Join Microsoft President & Vice Chair, Brad Smith, and explore issues of responsibility and risk in the technological space on April 28. Switch up your study vibe and kick back with live music from UW artists at the HUB’s Listening Lounge on April 26 from 1:30-2:45pm. Or sign-up here if you’re ready to hop on the mic! Check out the 3MT Competition, a fast-paced, enlightening event where graduate students compete for cash prizes by presenting their research in 3 minutes with 1 slide. Today is the last day to vote in the ASUW Elections! Cast your vote for your next ASUW Board of Directors! EVENTS & OPPORTUNITIES The UW Seattle Campus Calendar highlights opportunities to get involved around campus and connect with other Huskies. Back to top 3. Mental Health Moment Spring 2022 mental health groups, workshops, and trainings From therapy groups to non-therapy support programs and training opportunities, there are a range of offerings during spring quarter to help you actively (and proactively) manage your well-being. NEED TO TALK? 24/7 consultation from a counselor is available to UW students through My Student Support Program (My SSP). If you are feeling overwhelmed, concerned about a friend, or you’re not sure what you need but you’d like to talk, My SSP is a great option. My SSP provides same-day, confidential mental health and crisis intervention support, 24/7 and in multiple languages. Connect via phone, online chat, or the My SSP app. Learn more at mentalhealth.uw.edu. Back to top 4. Career and Internships Huskies in Population Health – Alumni Career Panel Explore career pathways on April 28 with UW alumni that seek to improve health and well-being in the broad field of population health. FEATURED JOBS & COURSES There are jobs and internships out there, and it’s as important as ever to build your skills, experience, and network. Here are a few things you may want to check out: Job/internship postings (undergrad): Walker Sands – PR Intern Applications due April 29 Lumen Bioscience – Lab Technician, Assay Development Applications due April 29 Macy’s – Store Management Internship Program Applications due April 29 The Coca-Cola Company – Analyst, Business Analytics Applications due April 29 International Rescue Committee – Social Media Intern Applications due April 28 CDC Foundation – School Liaison Applications due April 30 Job/internship postings (graduate): Palo Alto Networks – Product Management Intern Applications due April 29 Women’s Congressional Policy Institute – Congressional Fellowship on Women and Public Policy Applications due June 6 Kaiser Permanente – Marketing, Masters Intern Applications due April 29 Denali Therapeutics – Intern, Biostatistician Applications due May 31 Indeed – Data Scientist Applications due April 29 Visa – Software Engineer Intern (Masters) Applications due April 29 CAREER SUPPORT The Career & Internship Center is here to support you with guidance and resources, including Handshake, UW’s online job and internship platform. Back to top 5. Navigating UW Your research project– papers, posters, art, websites, musical compositions, etc., could win you $1,000 through the UW Libraries Undergraduate Research Award! Applications are due May 2. Hoping for a scholarship? Check out this advice from the UW’s scholarship office and Arts & Sciences students. You can get tailored study skills tips based on your answers to UW Academic Support Programs’ brief Study Skills quiz. Explore issues of surveillance and privacy that impact students, researchers, and their work across platforms on May 3 during Library Privacy Week. UW released its first Title IX Annual Report focused on sex- and gender-based violence and harassment and will hold community conversations on May 11 and 19. It’s a big campus… Scout your study spot! Scout can help you find a place to study, with options to filter by noise level, proximity to food, printers, whiteboards, and more. ACADEMIC ACCOMMODATIONS Students with disabilities can request academic accommodations at any time through the Disability Resources for Students office. Learn more about accommodations. Back to top Sign up for future Pawket Guide emails: Connect with us Email us or call 206-543-4972 Blog Spring 2022 Resources & Opportunities (Vol. 4) – Husky Pawket Guide 2 weeks ago Spring 2022 Resources & Opportunities (Vol. 3) – Husky Pawket Guide 4 weeks ago Spring 2022 Resources & Opportunities (Vol. 2) – Husky Pawket Guide 1 month ago Useful links Academic resources Academic calendar Disability Resources for Students Student Guide Libraries MyPlan MyUW Academic advising Diversity resources UAA Financial services Financial aid Tuition and fees Husky Card Getting around Campus map Transportation options U-PASS Student Life staff site University of Washington Be boundless Connect with us: Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Pinterest Accessibility Contact Us Jobs Campus Safety My UW Rules Docket Privacy Terms Newsletter © 2022 University of Washington | Seattle, WA