Skip to main content Close search Search for people, topics, events, etc. Search Go to homepage Toggle menu Toggle search Close menu Events & Exhibitions Visit Upcoming Events Past Events Fellowship Fellows Become a Fellow Schlesinger Library About the Library Research Services Collections Visit the Library News & Ideas Opportunities For Students For Researchers For Educators Toggle search About Give Media Harvard and Slavery Opportunities For Students For Researchers For Educators About Give Media Harvard and Slavery Website Policies Share Share this page on Facebook Share this page on Twitter Share this page on LinkedIn Copy Link Privacy Statement Digital Accessibility Policy Trademark Notice Report Copyright Infringement Report Security Issue Privacy Statement The following discloses our information gathering and use practices for the Harvard Radcliffe Institute website (https://www.radcliffe.harvard.edu), which relate to our “Subscribe for News” function. Our website contains links to other Harvard Radcliffe Institute and Harvard University functions and activities, to which this Privacy Statement does not apply. Information Gathering When you want to subscribe to our e–mail newsletters or publications, we will ask you to provide your name, e-mail address, mailing address, and telephone number, the last at your option. You will also need to tell us what kinds of publications you wish to receive. We use this information to respond to your requests. Our staff occasionally monitors search terms that users enter into the website search engine but this tracking is never associated with individual users. Other Use of Information In addition to the use described above, we may also use your information to improve web services or other communications to users. For example, our web server software generates log files of the IP addresses of computers that access this website and of what files they access. We may use your IP address and files you access to help diagnose problems with our server and to administer our website. We may also use this information to tailor site content to user needs and to generate aggregate statistical reports. At no time do we disclose site usage by individual IP addresses. We do not link IP addresses to anything personally identifiable. This means user sessions may be analyzed, but the users will remain anonymous. Sharing of Information We share your information with Harvard’s Alumni Affairs & Development office. User information may also be shared with third-party vendors to help provide Harvard Radcliffe Institute activities described above. We will not share, sell, rent, swap, or authorize any third party to use your e-mail address for commercial purposes without your permission. We may use third parties such as Google Analytics to generate reports on site usage, web traffic, user behavior, and user interests in order to optimize our website for our visitors. We also use geographic, demographic, and interest-based reports of our website visitors to create custom audience lists. We may also provide your information to third parties in circumstances where we believe that doing so is necessary or appropriate to satisfy any applicable law, regulation, legal process, or governmental request; detect, prevent or otherwise address fraud, security, or technical issues; or protect our rights and safety and the rights and safety of our users or others. Cookies We may use cookies to maintain a user’s identity between web sessions. Cookies are small files that are stored on your computer (unless you block them). We use cookies to understand and save your preferences for future visits and compile aggregate data about site traffic and site interaction so that we can offer better site experiences and tools in the future. You may disable cookies through your individual browser options or you can opt out of the collection and use of this information through tools like the Network Advertising Initiative opt-out page. Other Websites This website may contain links to external websites. We are not responsible for the privacy practices or the content of such websites. Information Protection This site has reasonable security measures in place to help protect against the loss, misuse, and alteration of the information under our control. However, no method of transmission over the Internet or method of electronic storage is 100% secure. European Union General Data Protection Regulation If you are located in the European Union, Iceland, Liechtenstein, or Norway (the European Economic Area), or in the United Kingdom, Harvard’s Additional EEA Privacy Disclosures may apply to your data in connection with certain Radcliffe Institute programs. Contact If you have any questions about this privacy statement, the practices of this site, or your dealings with this site, you can contact: Radcliffe Institute for Advanced Study Harvard University Office of Communications info@radcliffe.harvard.edu Changes to This Privacy Statement This Privacy Statement may be amended from time to time. Any such changes will be posted on this page. This Privacy Statement was last updated April 22, 2021. > Digital Accessibility Policy > Harvard University Trademark Notice Report Copyright Infringement In accordance with the Digital Millennium Copyright Act (“DMCA”), Pub. L. 105-304, Harvard has designated an agent to receive notification of alleged copyright infringement occurring in the radcliffe.harvard.edu domain. If you believe that your copyrighted work is being infringed, notify our designated agent specified below. Please note, this agent is for reporting of copyright infringement and is not the correct person to answer requests for copyright permission. Tracy Walden Harvard University Information Technology IT Security | Policy, Risk and Compliance +1.617.496.8515 784 Memorial Drive Cambridge, MA 02139 E-mail: dmca@harvard.edu The Digital Millennium Copyright Act requires that all infringement claims must be in writing and must include the following information: A physical or electronic signature of the copyright owner or the person authorized to act on its behalf; A description of the copyrighted work claimed to have been infringed; A description of the infringing material and information reasonably sufficient to permit Harvard to locate the material; Your contact information, including your address, telephone number, and e-mail; A statement by you that you have a good faith belief that use of the material in the manner complained of is not authorized by the copyright owner, its agent, or the law; and A statement that the information in the notification is accurate, and, under the pains and penalties of perjury, that you are authorized to act on behalf of the copyright owner. Report Security Issue If you believe you have discovered a vulnerability or have a security incident to report, please see Report an Incident for next steps. Use this process for all information security incidents to ensure they are captured correctly and handled in a timely manner. If you’ve discovered a security concern, we will work with you to make sure that we understand the scope of the issue and that we address the exposure. When given sufficient notification, we will do our best to work with any responsible party alerting us to a security issue, assign resources to investigate the issue swiftly, and engage a response team appropriate to the severity of the issue. Find out more about Harvard University IT Security. Share: Share this page on Facebook Share this page on Twitter Share this page on LinkedIn Back to top B a c k t o t o p Get the latest Radcliffe news delivered to your inbox Enter your e-mail address Continue Radcliffe Institute for Advanced Study Harvard University 10 Garden Street Cambridge, MA 02138 Directions Give Now Contact Visit Careers Housing Meeting Spaces Site Map Digital Accessibility Accessibility Harvard University Policies Follow us on Facebook Follow us on Twitter Follow us onInstagram Subscribe to our RSS feed Visit our LinkedIn page Visit our YouTube channel © 2022 President and Fellows of Harvard College