Skip To Main Content Apply Visit Request Info Event Calendar search Apply Visit Request Info Search By Keyword About CSU At a Glance Our History What We Believe Our Community Campus Map Meet President Costin Strategic Plan Board of Trustees University Resources Accreditation Diversity Church Relations Academics Degree Matching Colleges Centers and Institutes Undergraduate Programs Internships (ELI) Honors Program International Programs Study Abroad Certificate Programs CSU Scholars Academy Air Force ROTC Army ROTC Library Academic Calendar Academic Catalog Office of the Registrar Admissions Apply Financial Aid Visit CSU Transfer Students Accepted Students Life at CSU Welcome to CSU Student Organizations CSU Traditions Campus Recreation Campus Ministries Student Resources Residence Life Housing Options Commuter Students Dining CSU Bookstore Counseling Services Security Graduate School Charleston Southern Online Athletics Info for… New Students Current Students Parents Alumni School & Guidance Counselors Faculty & Staff Virtual Tour MyCSU Online Payments Event Calendar Directory Newsroom Social Media Directory Giving Welcome to Buc Nation! Apply Here Welcome to Buc Nation! Previous Slide Next Slide I’m interested in:Undergraduate ProgramsGraduate ProgramsOnline Programs Your best is within reach at CSU. You will learn to think broadly and deeply about ideas, to engage biblical truths that ignite your curiosity, and to ask questions of the world and yourself – all aimed at preparing you to discover your purpose and achieve success in living it out. At Charleston Southern University, your purpose is our mission. Find your programImagine yourself hereYou can afford CSU Take our degree-match quizYour Passport to PurposeTake a virtual tour Charleston there’s no other city like it In the heart of the Lowcountry, Charleston has it all – great food, beautiful beaches and a booming economy. Schedule a visit About CSU A student-to-faculty ratio of 12:1 offers access to professors you can’t get at a larger university. Our vision: To be a Christian university nationally recognized for integrating faith in learning, leading and serving. Build new skills, professional contacts and your resume through internships in CSU's ELI program. Your first step There’s no better time to take your first step with CSU. Apply NowVisit CampusRequest InfoTake a Virtual Tour The atmosphere here at CSU is unlike any other place I've ever been, it feels like one big family.Josh Bridges,Class of 2023 CSU News & Events Prospective Bucs can earn $1000 with CSU campus visit Categories: Campus wide Prospective Bucs can earn $1000 with CSU campus visit Prospective students have an opportunity to receive $1,000 after touring Charleston Southern University, the Lowcountry’s only Christian higher educ…Continue reading: Prospective Bucs can earn $1000 with CSU campus visit More News Statement regarding incoming student’s social post Statement regarding incoming student’s social post Charleston Southern University Athletics and administration is aware of an incoming freshm…READ MORE: Statement regarding incoming student’s social post This is our Golden Hour. Ticktock. This is our Golden Hour. Ticktock. Almost everyone who has seen combat up close would affirm General William T. Sherman’s o…READ MORE: This is our Golden Hour. Ticktock. CSU names Spring 2022 Dean’s List CSU names Spring 2022 Dean’s List Charleston Southern University had 795 students named to the Dean’s List for the spring …READ MORE: CSU names Spring 2022 Dean’s List View the newsroom Upcoming Events See the Calendar Follow CSU on Social Media! Charleston Southern University (CSU) does not illegally discriminate on the basis of race, age, color, national or ethnic origin, disability, sex, pregnancy, childbirth or related medical conditions, religion, genetic information, veteran or military status, or any other basis on which the university is prohibited from discrimination under local, state, or federal law, in its employment or in the provision of its services. CSU admits students under this policy in the administration of its educational policies, admissions policies, scholarship and loan programs, and athletic and other school-administered programs. In order to fulfill its purpose, the university may legally discriminate on the basis of religion in employment. 9200 University Boulevard Charleston, SC 29406 843-863-7000 instagram facebook twitter linkedin youtube Contact Us Directory Newsroom Offices Campus Map MyCSU Library Careers BACK TO TOP A-Z Index Privacy / Terms of Use Nondiscrimination Campus Security © 2022