Skip to Main Content Brown University Carney Institute for Brain Science Center for Computational Brain Science Secondary Navigation Navigation Give to Carney Search Menu Site Navigation Home About Leadership/Contact Research Training & Education Competitions BRAINSTORM About Research Projects Innovators Contact/Leadership Events Events CCBS Seminars Events Archive Search Carney Institute for Brain Science Center for Computational Brain Science Center for Computational Brain Science A world-class center focused on computational approaches to solve the big questions of our time. Center for Computational Brain Science A world-class center focused on computational approaches to solve the big questions of our time. The Center for Computational Brain Science within the Carney Institute for Brain Science harnesses Brown University’s expertise in computation, cognition and systems neuroscience toward new brain health solutions. The human brain is a computational organ. It stores a lifetime of memories, recognizes faces in the blink of an eye, learns from experience, plans for the future and communicates fluidly. To demystify how the brain accomplishes such complex tasks with precision and speed, the Center for Computational Brain Science (CCBS) fosters collaborations between basic brain science researchers and engineers, mathematicians and computer scientists, and brings computational neuroscience innovations to clinical applications and commercialization. CCBS catalyzes new collaborations across campus, engaging mathematicians, computer scientists, biologists, behavioral economists and cognitive neuroscientists. The center allows for integration across levels of computational analysis, which is critical for understanding the brain. Building on Brown’s Open Curriculum, the center provides cross-training in computational methods for students, basic scientists and physician-scientists. The center also enhances community engagement in computational brain science through hackathons, modeling challenges and scientific symposiums. CCBS invests in high-risk, high-gain research with the potential for conversion to startups, thereby accelerating the translation of computational approaches to clinical applications and commercialization. Research Housed within Brown's Carney Institute for Brain Science, CCBS promotes rigorous, collaborative research. The center has three focus areas of research: Computational psychiatry/neurology, neurotechnology and neuromodulation; computational vision; and neural computation, artificial intelligence and machine learning. Research Projects Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University Brown University For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home About Leadership/Contact Research Training & Education Competitions BRAINSTORM About Research Projects Innovators Contact/Leadership Events Events CCBS Seminars Events Archive Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation Give to Carney This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Center for Computational Brain Science Open details for Center for Computational Brain Science Bookmark this Page