Skip to main content Google Tag Manager Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Prospective Newly Admitted Current Alumni Columbia University School of General Studies Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Admissions Educational Financing Academics Student Services About Undergraduate Admissions How to Apply Eligibility Application Deadlines and Decisions Information Sessions/Campus Visits Transfer Students Postbac Premed Admissions How to Apply Eligibility Application Deadlines and Decisions Information Sessions/Campus Visits Newly Admitted Students International Students Planning Day Placement Exams University-Wide Placement Exams U.S. Military Veterans International Dual Degree Programs Types of Financial Aid Institutional Scholarships Federal and State Grants Loans Private Scholarships and Grants Student Employment Financial Aid for Military Veterans Post-9/11 GI Bill® and the Yellow Ribbon Program Veterans Request for Certification Cost of Attendance Applying for Financial Aid Prospective Students Newly Admitted Students Current Students University Employees Postbac Premed Students Counseling Appointments Enrollment Update Form Student Account Refunds Undergraduate The Core Curriculum Degree Fulfillment Course Listings Majors and Concentrations Research Opportunities Study Abroad Academic Calendar Postbac Premed Program Curriculum & Courses Sample Schedule Course Listings Preparatory Coursework Previously Completed Coursework Glide Year Master’s Programs Academic Calendar Applying to Medical School General Admission Linkage Admission Linkage Specific Program Requirements Reapplicants Letters of Recommendation Academic Policies Registration Enrollment and Courseload Leaves and Withdrawals Academic Integrity and Standards Faculty of Arts and Sciences Undergraduate Announcements Postbac Premed Announcements Academic Advising Academic Resource Center Programs & Services Jumpstart Series Tutoring Peer Advising Campus Services Forms and Guides Graduation Health and Wellness Housing International Students Medical School Fair Planning Your Future Accelerated Master's Programs Fellowships and Research Premedical Clinical and Research Positions Student Life Leadership Development Multicultural & Social Justice Education Programs Student Organizations Upcoming Events Veterans Resources and Initiatives Leadership Mission History Statistics and Facts Notable Alumni University Policies Events Staff Directory Faculty News Press Coverage Media Inquiries School of General Studies You are here: Home Admissions Undergraduate Admissions Transfer Students Transfer Students The School of General Studies welcomes applications from transfer students. In recent years, more than 75 percent of students in our entering classes transferred credit to Columbia. There is no separate application procedure for transfer students. For the official GS policy on transfer credit, including Advanced Placement exam credit, see the Transfer Credit page. Credits There is no minimum number of credits required. Students apply when they feel ready to complete the bachelor’s degree, whether that means entering with no college credit, or many previous credits earned. Students may transfer up to 12 credits toward their majors. Any additional credits taken toward the major may potentially transfer as elective credits. Students may transfer up to 60 credits of liberal arts coursework toward their undergraduate degree as long as the grades are C or above and the credits are considered equivalent to those offered at Columbia. GS transfers up to six credits of non-liberal arts coursework. One semester of English composition will transfer. Math courses transfer at the level of pre-calculus and above, as well as statistics. Up to 15 credits of non-degree coursework (for students not enrolled in a degree program) will transfer. Online courses and independent study will not transfer. GPA Although no minimum GPA is required for admission, if a student has recently been enrolled in a college or university, it is expected that he or she will have performed very well (an A average or 3.7 - 3.8 GPA). It is important to note, however, that the Admissions Committee also takes into account standardized test scores, the autobiographical essay, recommendations, and high school performance. Some applicants may also be asked to interview. Once a student has matriculated at Columbia, his or her GPA only includes grades earned at Columbia. Therefore, the GPA at graduation will reflect only those grades earned at Columbia. Transcripts High school transcripts, secondary school records, or GED/TASC test results are required from any student with less than 30 earned college course credits. Applicants with a GED or TASC and two or more years of high school are required to submit their high school transcripts. Please note: Students admitted to the School of General Studies are required to submit official transcripts from high school as well as documentation of high school graduation prior to enrollment. Online Application Request More Information Contact Information Office of Admissions Columbia University School of General Studies 408 Lewisohn Hall, MC 4101 2970 Broadway New York, NY 10027 Phone: +1 (212) 854-2772 Toll Free: (800) 895-1169 Fax: +1 (212) 854-6316 [email protected] Admissions Undergraduate Admissions Postbac Premed Admissions Newly Admitted Students U.S. Military Veterans International Dual Degree Programs Educational Financing Types of Financial Aid Financial Aid for Military Veterans Cost of Attendance Applying for Financial Aid Counseling Appointments Enrollment Update Form Student Account Refunds Academics Undergraduate Postbac Premed Program Applying to Medical School Academic Policies Faculty of Arts and Sciences Student Services Undergraduate Announcements Postbac Premed Announcements Academic Advising Academic Resource Center Campus Services Forms and Guides Graduation Health and Wellness Housing International Students Medical School Fair Planning Your Future Premedical Clinical and Research Positions Student Life Veterans Resources and Initiatives About Leadership Mission History Statistics and Facts Notable Alumni University Policies Events Staff Directory Faculty News Press Coverage Media Inquiries Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close