Search | Directories | Reference Tools UW Home > Discover UW > Student Guide UW Bothell Course Descriptions UW Tacoma Course Descriptions Glossary COLLEGE OF ARTS & SCIENCES CLASSICS Detailed course offerings (Time Schedule) are available for Spring Quarter 2022 Summer Quarter 2022 Autumn Quarter 2022 CLAS 101 Latin and Greek in Current Use (2) VLPA Designed to improve and increase English vocabulary through a study of the Latin and Greek elements in English, with emphasis on words in current literary and scientific use. No auditors. Knowledge of Latin or Greek is not required. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: CLAS 101 CLAS 102 Grammar and Syntax through Latin (3) VLPA Improve familiarity with basic grammar, syntax, logic through study of mechanics of the Latin language. For Educational Opportunity Program students only. No auditors. Knowledge of Latin or Greek not required. View course details in MyPlan: CLAS 102 CLAS 122 Gateway to the Ancient Greco-Roman World (5) VLPA/I&S, DIV Catherine M Connors Introduction to Greek and Roman ways of understanding and shaping the world. Art, architecture, literature, science, and religion are used to examine ancient ideas about the relationships between man and woman, free person and slave, native and foreigner, civilization and the natural world, mortal and divine. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: CLAS 122 CLAS 205 Bioscientific Vocabulary Building From Latin and Greek (3) VLPA Designed to help the student master the scientific vocabulary of his or her particular field by a study of the Latin and Greek roots that are used to create the majority of scientific terms. No auditors. Knowledge of Latin or Greek is not required. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: CLAS 205 CLAS 210 Greek and Roman Classics in English (5) VLPA Blondell, Clauss, Connors, Gowing, Hinds, Hollmann, Kamen, Levaniouk, Levin-Richardson, Stroup, Topper Introduction to classical literature through a study of the major Greek and Latin authors in modern translation. Offered: AWSp. View course details in MyPlan: CLAS 210 CLAS 231 Race, Identity, and the Ancient Mediterranean World (5) I&S, DIV M. Green, K. Topper Explores ancient authors' perceptions of others (foreigners, "barbarians," people on the margins of their known-worlds, slaves, etc.) alongside current scholarship on ancient perceptions of race and identity. Also examines how different groups/nations in nineteenth/twenty-first centuries used their views of Greek and Roman societies to make modern claims about race, white privileges, and power. Offered: jointly with HSTAM 231. View course details in MyPlan: CLAS 231 CLAS 239 Greece: From Ancient to Modern (5) VLPA/I&S A. HOLLMANN, N. KLAPAKI How are Ancient and Modern Greece connected to each other? Learn about great moments in Ancient Greek culture (tyranny and democracy, tragedy and comedy, athletics and art) and the complex ways Modern Greece has drawn on this heritage by exploring ancient and modern texts and images. Offered: jointly with JSIS A 239. View course details in MyPlan: CLAS 239 CLAS 314 Science, Technology, Engineering, and Mathematics in the Ancient World (5) I&S/VLPA J. Clauss, S. Stroup Examines science, technology, engineering, mathematics, and medicine in the cultures of Greece and Rome, from the late Bronze Age to early Roman Empire. View course details in MyPlan: CLAS 314 CLAS 320 Society and Status in Greece and Rome (5) VLPA/I&S, DIV D. KAMEN Examines the societies of ancient Greece and Rome, with a special focus on status, class, and gender. The diversity of human experience is explored through the study of men, women, children, the elderly, slaves, housing, dress, food, sexuality, medicine, death, religion, theater, politics, law, economics, travel, warfare, art, and athletics. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: CLAS 320 CLAS 324 Greek and Roman Athletics (5) I&S, DIV Surveys Greek athletics and Roman gladiatorial events; the place of athletic and violent spectacle in ancient politics, economy, art, and literature; the role of marginalized populations (especially women, slaves, POWs, and ethnic minorities) in these events, with focus on the ongoing marginalization and disposability of female athletes and athletes of Color on campus and in the community. View course details in MyPlan: CLAS 324 CLAS 326 Women in Antiquity (5) VLPA/I&S, DIV Connors, Levaniouk A broad survey of primary sources in medicine, law, philosophy, religious ritual, myth, history, and ethnography, informed by perspectives from literature, art, and archaeology. Provides students the tools to analyze the social roles of women in ancient Greece and Rome. View course details in MyPlan: CLAS 326 CLAS 328 Sex, Gender, and Representation in Greek and Roman Literature (3) VLPA/I&S, DIV Hinds, Levin-Richardson, Stroup Affirmation and inversion of gender roles in Greek and Roman literature, myths of male and female heroism; marginalization of female consciousness; interaction of gender, status, and sexual preference in love poetry. Readings from epic, drama, historiography, romance, and lyric. View course details in MyPlan: CLAS 328 CLAS 329 Greek and Roman Slavery (5) I&S/VLPA, DIV Examines slavery in ancient Greece and Rome, investigating chattel slavery and serfdom, the slave supply and slave numbers, the economic role of slavery, the legal status and treatment of slaves, the resistance of slaves, the freeing of slaves, and ideologies of and attitudes toward slavery. Offered: AWSp. View course details in MyPlan: CLAS 329 CLAS 330 The Age of Augustus (5) VLPA/I&S Gowing Detailed study of the history and culture of the reign of Augustus, the first Roman emperor (31 BC-AD 14). Includes readings in Augustan authors such as Vergil, Ovid, and Horace as well as the study of Augustan art and architecture. Offered: jointly with HSTAM 330. View course details in MyPlan: CLAS 330 CLAS 335 The Age of Nero (5) VLPA/I&S C. Connors, A. Gowing, S. Levin-Richardson, S. Stroup Detailed study of the history and culture of the reign of the Roman Emperor Nero (AD 54-68). Includes readings in the historian Tacitus' account of Nero, as well as in authors such as Petronius, Lucan, and Seneca, and consideration of the artistic and architectural achievements of the period. Recommended: HSTAM 111, HSTAM 302, HSTAM 312, or HSTAM 313; CLAS 122, CLAS 320, CLAS 329, or CLAS 330 Offered: jointly with HSTAM 335; AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: CLAS 335 CLAS 345 Modern Ways To Write About The Ancient World (5) VLPA C. Connors Development of expertise in expository and persuasive writing through study of Ancient Greek and Roman literature and culture. Recommended: a strong interest in ancient Greece and Rome is recommended. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: CLAS 345 CLAS 360 Jews, Greeks, and Romans in the Ancient World (5) VLPA Stroup Examines the interactions between populations of Jews, Greeks, and Romans in the ancient Mediterranean from the late Bronze Age through the early Talmudic period, informed by perspectives from literature (religious and secular), art, and archaeology. Offered: jointly with JEW ST 360. View course details in MyPlan: CLAS 360 CLAS 399 Study Abroad: Classics (3-15, max. 20) VLPA For participants in Classics overseas study programs. Specific course content determined by assigned faculty member. Credit not applicable to majors in the Classics Department without approval. View course details in MyPlan: CLAS 399 CLAS 405 Undergraduate Seminar in Classics (5, max. 15) Seminar on a broadly defined topic in classics. Includes reading in Latin or Greek as appropriate for individual students. Additional readings of works in English translation and works of scholarship chosen to give undergraduate majors familiarity with research methods and perspective on the discipline. View course details in MyPlan: CLAS 405 CLAS 410 The Classical Tradition (3-5) VLPA C. Connors, S. Hinds Study of the Classical Tradition, including the reception of ancient Greek and Roman texts, objects, and ideas within the history of Western literature, art, thought, and scholarly disciplines. Exploration of its interrelationship with the ethos of the various ages in which significant developments occurred. Offered: AWSp. View course details in MyPlan: CLAS 410 CLAS 420 Freedom in Ancient Rome and the Modern World (3/5) VLPA/I&S, DIV A. Gowing Examination of the concept of 'freedom' in Ancient Rome, from its founding in the eighth century BC to the fourth century AD. Special attention to comparing the Roman perspective with some modern views of 'freedom', including (but not limited to) the United States from its founding to the present day. Recommended: HSTAM 111, 302, 312, or 313; CLAS 122, 320, or 329 Offered: jointly with HSTAM 420; AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: CLAS 420 CLAS 422 Intellectual History of Classical Greece (5) VLPA/I&S Blondell Uses Plato's Republic as a core text to explore a range of issues of ancient and contemporary interest, such as justice, political theory, education, gender, and the nature of the soul. Besides the Republic and other works of Plato, reading are taken from Homer, Hesiod, the dramatists, and other authors. Taught in English. View course details in MyPlan: CLAS 422 CLAS 423 Gender and Heroism in Ancient Greek Thought (5) I&S/VLPA, DIV R. Blondell Examines gender and heroism as mutually constitutive categories in Greek thought, and ways in which they work to uphold or subvert power structures among men and women in their various statuses under patriarchy. Topics will include the multiple conceptions of male and female heroism (mythic, epic, tragic, comic, philosophical, religious) and the ways they are endorsed or critiqued in a variety of literary and philosophical texts. Recommended: Previous coursework in Classics at the 200- or 300-level Offered: AWSp. View course details in MyPlan: CLAS 423 CLAS 424 The Epic Tradition (5) VLPA Clauss, Levaniouk Ancient and medieval epic and heroic poetry of Europe in English: the Iliad, Odyssey, and Aeneid; the Roland or a comparable work from the medieval oral tradition; pre-Greek forerunners, other Greco-Roman literary epics, and later medieval and Renaissance developments and adaptations of the genre. Choice of reading material varies according to instructor's preference. Offered: jointly with C LIT 424. View course details in MyPlan: CLAS 424 CLAS 427 Greek and Roman Tragedy in English (5) VLPA Stroup Study of the development of Greek and Roman tragedy, with extensive readings in representative plays of Aeschylus, Sophocles, Euripides, and Seneca. View course details in MyPlan: CLAS 427 CLAS 428 Greek and Roman Comedy in English (5) VLPA Stroup Readings from the comedies of Aristophanes, Plautus, and Terence. View course details in MyPlan: CLAS 428 CLAS 430 Greek and Roman Mythology (3/5) VLPA Principal myths found in classical and later literature. Offered: AWSp. View course details in MyPlan: CLAS 430 CLAS 432 Classical Mythology in Film (5) VLPA James J Clauss Comparison and discussion of classical myths and modern films inspired by them. Promotes access to the reading of classical mythology. Analyzes significant differences between ancient literary and modern cinematographic representations of the myth. View course details in MyPlan: CLAS 432 CLAS 435 The Ancient Novel (3) VLPA Connors Reading and discussion of the principal Greek and Roman novels, the earliest European prose fiction, with attention to earlier literature and to imperial culture. View course details in MyPlan: CLAS 435 CLAS 445 Greek and Roman Religion (5) VLPA/I&S Hollmann, Levaniouk Religion in the social life of the Greeks and Romans, with emphasis placed on their public rituals and festivals. Attention is given to the priesthoods, personal piety, rituals of purification and healing, and the conflict of religions in the early Roman Empire. Many lectures illustrated by slides. Offered: jointly with RELIG 445. View course details in MyPlan: CLAS 445 CLAS 490 Supervised Study (1-6, max. 18) Individual study in classical topics by arrangement. View course details in MyPlan: CLAS 490 CLAS 495 Senior Essay (1-3, max. 4) VLPA Usually written in conjunction with another course in the final year of study in the major. View course details in MyPlan: CLAS 495 CLAS 496 Special Topics (2-5, max. 15) VLPA Offered occasionally by visitors or resident faculty. View course details in MyPlan: CLAS 496 CLAS 510 Interdisciplinary Seminar in Classics (3-5, max. 25) Advanced work on Greek and Latin studies in English translation. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: CLAS 510 CLAS 520 Seminar (5, max. 45) Advanced comparative work on Greek and Latin materials studied in both original languages. View course details in MyPlan: CLAS 520 CLAS 525 Proseminar (5) Introduces graduate students to the chief subfields, together with their various methodologies and resources, of the broad discipline of classical studies. View course details in MyPlan: CLAS 525 CLAS 540 Topics in Greek and Latin Literary History (5, max. 25) Reading of a range of Greek and Latin texts by various authors. View course details in MyPlan: CLAS 540 CLAS 700 Master's Thesis (*-) View course details in MyPlan: CLAS 700 CLAS 800 Doctoral Dissertation (*-) View course details in MyPlan: CLAS 800 Office of the University Registrar registrar@uw.edu Modified: May 30, 2022