Tuck COVID-19 Information and Campus Updates Tuck School of Business at Dartmouth Loading... Menu Search Tuck About Why Tuck? Mission, Vision, & Strategy Tuck Leadership Meet the Dean Facts & Figures See Our Campus (Map) Accessibility Staff Directory Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Dartmouth Collaborations MBA Admissions Student Stories Alumni Stories Tuck 360: MBA Blog Academic Experience Life at Tuck Housing Options Partners and Families Clubs and Activities Tuck Student Board Centers Career Services Finance Your Degree Business Bridge Executive Education Faculty & Research How We Teach Faculty Directory Academic Groups Faculty Recruiting Research & Insights Faculty in the News Research Highlights News All News School News Research & Insights In the Media Events MBA Program Rankings Social Media For Journalists Recruiting Executive Education myTUCK Master of Health Care Delivery Science About Why Tuck? Mission, Vision, & Strategy Tuck Leadership Board of Advisors Tuck Asia Pacific Council Tuck Latin America and Caribbean Council Tuck Europe, Middle East, and Africa (EMEA) Council TAG Executive Committee MBA Council Meet the Dean Meet Matthew J. Slaughter: Videos Bio & CV Contact the Dean's Office Facts & Figures History See Our Campus (Map) Accessibility Staff Directory Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Dartmouth Collaborations Master of Engineering Management Program Master of Health Care Delivery Science TuckLAB Undergraduate Business Training Join the Tuck Community Apply Today Connect With Us MBA Student Stories Alumni Stories Tuck 360: MBA Blog Academic Experience Required Curriculum Elective Curriculum Management Science and Quantitative Methods Option First-Year Project Leadership Development TuckGO Centers Academic Calendar Life at Tuck Dartmouth College Diversity Military Veterans Hanover and the Upper Valley Admissions Applying to Tuck Class Profile Admissions Criteria Important Dates Visit and Interview Accessibility Attend an Event Admissions FAQs Connect with Our Community Housing Options Partners and Families Clubs and Activities Tuck Student Board Career Services Employment Statistics Meet Our Career Advisers Top Hiring Companies Recruit a Tuck Student Finance Your Degree Tuition and Costs Scholarships, Fellowships, and Sponsorships Loan Programs Online Resources Financial Aid Applications Financial Aid FAQs Join the Tuck Community Apply Today Connect With Us Business Bridge Executive Education Advanced Management Program Diversity Business Programs Global Leadership Next Step Leadership and Strategic Impact Join the Tuck Community Apply Today Connect With Us Faculty & Research How We Teach Faculty Directory Faculty Recruiting Research Groups Emeriti Faculty in the News Research & Insights Join the Tuck Community Apply Today Connect With Us News All News School News Research & Insights In the Media Events MBA Program Rankings Social Media For Journalists Join the Tuck Community Apply Today Connect With Us Search Search Tuck Cancel Financial Aid Applications Students can apply for educational loans by the published key financial aid deadlines. The financial aid office determines their eligibility for loans based on a variety of factors, including cost of the program, the student's ability to contribute, debt levels consistent with successful repayment, and the school's availability of funds. The school reserves the right to limit or decline institutional and international loans on the basis of a student’s overall debt burden, credit history, or other relevant factors. Key Financial Aid Dates Application Round FAFSA*/International Application for Financial Aid Due Round 1 March 3, 2023 Round 2 March 24, 2023 Round 3 May 12, 2023 Round 1 Consortium March 3, 2023 Round 2 Consortium March 24, 2023 Applications are due by 5:00 p.m. EST *Free Application for Federal Student Aid Financial aid applications should only be submitted after the student is admitted. Students are eligible to apply for financial aid prior to matriculation and at any point during the academic year. Please note institutional aid is limited and may not be available at a later time. How to Apply for Education Loans U.S. Citizens and Permanent Residents Complete the Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA). Dartmouth’s code is 002573. The FAFSA requires prior-prior tax documentation. For the academic year 2021-22, you will use your 2020 tax return. Learn how to use the IRS data retrieval tool to simplify completing your FAFSA. International Citizens Admitted students will have access to the International Application for Financial Aid on the Admitted students website. Documentation required to submit the application: Signed copies of the 2020 tax return you filed in your country (and those of your spouse, if applicable). If you are not required to file a return, a statement from your employer stating all earnings, allowances, and taxes paid during 2020. All amounts on tax returns and/or financial statements must be converted to U.S. dollars, and the corresponding lines related to income, allowances, and taxes must be translated into English. We do not need a certified or notarized copy of your currency conversion. Helpful Information If you submit the required documentation by the key deadline, we will email your financial aid eligibility letter to Round 1 admits by Admitted Students Weekend and Round 2 and 3 prior to the enrollment deposit deadline. If you cannot meet the deadline, you are still eligible to apply for financial aid and can do so at any point in time. Apply Now Connect With Us Take a 360° Tour of Campus Helpful Links Application Materials Additional Info for Applicants Financing Your Degree Admissions FAQ Visit and Interview Accessibility Attend an Event Tuck Ambassadors Tuck on Social Tuck 360: MBA Blog Tuck’s 2022-2023 Essay Questions Tuition and Costs Scholarships and Fellowships Online Resources Financial Aid FAQs Loan Programs Applying to Tuck Finance Your Degree Home Admissions Home 100 Tuck Hall Hanover, NH 03755 USA Center for Business, Government & Society Center for Digital Strategies Center for Entrepreneurship Center for Health Care Center for Private Equity and Venture Capital Revers Center for Energy, Sustainability and Innovation Apply Admissions Financial Aid Application Deadlines Admissions FAQs Contact Directions Campus Map Accessibility Area Lodging Give to Tuck MyTuck for Alumni TuckStuff Store TuckConnect Intranet Employment For Recruiters For Journalists Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkedIn YouTube Back to Top © , The Trustees of Dartmouth College. All rights reserved. | Privacy