Skip to main content Temple University Explore Temple’s Schools and Colleges Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Support Temple Temple University Search Site Search Full Menu Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees President History & Traditions Temple Health News & Media Offices Public Information Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Development Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Libraries Linguistics Certificate (Undergraduate) You are here Home Academics Degrees and Programs Linguistics Certificate (Undergraduate) Apply Request More Info Linguistics Certificate (Undergraduate) Accreditation Linguistics Undergraduate Certificate In the Linguistics Undergraduate Certificate program at Temple’s College of Public Health, students study the building blocks of human communication. This academic certificate introduces you to the scientific study of language, including its structure and use, theoretical models, and real-life applications. It helps students enhance analytical and critical thinking skills, and provides a foundation for those planning careers in the clinical, education or research area. You will take core courses on topics including introductory linguistics, language and syntax. All certificate students also take a seminar, Topics in Communication Sciences and Disorders, which varies based on the semester. See a full list of program courses. A linguistics certificate is particularly useful for students majoring in anthropology; cognitive science; computer science; education; English; foreign languages; speech, language and hearing science; neuroscience and psychology. This program also gives students practical skills in the study of foreign languages or American Sign Language (ASL). Students wishing to declare and pursue the Certificate in Linguistics should contact the undergraduate academic advisor for the Department of Communication Sciences & Disorders, Maria Sarmiento. Email: tuh41194@temple.edu Program Format The linguistics certificate is earned as an addition to a student’s declared major. You can complete the certificate with 15 to 24 credits, depending on your track and fulfillment of language requirements. Speech, Language and Hearing majors: 18 credits Other majors who have completed a third-semester ASL or foreign language course: 15 credits Other majors who have not completed any ASL or foreign language course: 24–26 credits (The number of credits depends on successful waivers of language requirements.) Related Undergraduate Programs in the College of Public Health Speech, Language and Hearing Science BA American Sign Language Certificate Laptop Requirement Laptops are integrated into the curriculum at the College of Public Health to improve opportunities for active learning and provide greater access to specialized software and required tools in and out of the classroom. Incoming students are required to have a laptop that meets certain minimum hardware specifications. Review full laptop requirements. Tuition & Fees The tuition for this Certificate Program is based on school or college of your major, program degree level (undergraduate or graduate), course load (full- or part-time), in-state or out-of-state residency, and more. Learn more about our tuition and fees. HP-LING-CERT Additional Program Information Visit College Site View Program Details Go back to AcademicsMore in Linguistics Certificate (Undergraduate) Accreditation Apply Request More Info Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Calendar Policies Social Media TUportal TUmail Accessibility Careers at Temple Safety & Emergency Information Ethics & Compliance Privacy Statement Professional Licensure Disclosures Follow Temple University Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community. Apply Request More Info