You may be trying to access this site from a secured browser on the server. Please enable scripts and reload this page. Turn on more accessible mode Turn off more accessible mode Skip Ribbon Commands Skip to main content Turn off Animations Turn on Animations Academic Resources Academic Calendar Academic Success BlueStar Campus Connect DePaul Central Desire2Learn (D2L) Email (Students/Faculty/Staff) University Catalog Library Campus Resources Campus Security Bookstore Campus Maps Events University Resources Directory Athletics Employment Sites A-Z Information For Alumni & Friends Current Students Faculty & Staff DePaul UniversityDivision of Student AffairsDivision of Student AffairsStudent Affairs DePaul Shortcuts Division of Student Affairs About Diversity & Culture Student Life Student Services Events Title IX Resources Recent About Student Life Student Services Diversity & Culture Events Title IX Resources DePaul Shortcuts Academic Resources Academic Calendar Academic Success BlueStar Campus Connect DePaul Central Desire2Learn (D2L) Email (Students/Faculty/Staff) University Catalog Library Campus Resources Campus Security Bookstore Campus Maps Events University Resources Directory Athletics Employment Sites A-Z Information For Alumni & Friends Current Students Faculty & Staff Apply Online Request Info Visit Campus About Mission, Vision, Purpose & Values Administration Departments Staff Directory Assessment Employment and Internships Committees Staff Achievement Communication Collaboration Technology Professional Development Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Student Life Student Organizations Student Conduct Leadership Opportunities Involvement Calculator Student Discounts For New Students Student Publications Living On Campus Forms Student Services Academic Access and Attainment Career Services Community Resources Counseling Emergency Protocols Financial Awards For Specific Populations Health & Wellness STARS Student Success Coaching Transfer Peer Mentors TRiO Diversity & Culture Identity-specific Cultural and Resource Centers College Transitions Scholarships Post-college Success Academic Support Cultural Student Organizations Our Commitment Events Blue Demon Welcome Blue Demon Week Black History Month Family Weekend FEST Voter Registration Graduation Activities Holidays at DePaul Involvement Fairs Midnight Breakfast New Student Service Day Vincentian Service Day Winter Welcome Week Tree Lighting Ceremony Check-in Title IX Rights and Options for Survivors What do I do if I am Accused? Discrimination and Harassment Reporting Obligations Athletics Pregnant & Parenting Student Rights Gender Identity Sexual Violence Prevention and Education Reports and Training Resources Faculty & Staff Parents & Family Spirituality Legacy of Leadership Staff Intranet Student Affairs Main Content FEST 2022 is Friday, May 27th Commencement is Saturday, June 11th & Sunday, June 12th, 2022 Midnight Breakfast is Tuesday, May 24th, 2022 In Student Affairs, we believe in the dignity and promise of every student and their ability to positively impact our world. A DePaul education encompasses both the scholarship and research of classroom learning and the intellectual, spiritual, moral and personal growth of campus life. This site is designed to acquaint students, faculty and staff with the programs, services, resources and opportunities of the Division of Student Affairs. Through these programs, we strive to develop students into well-rounded individuals who will have a positive impact on their communities and our world. Resources Reporting Cases of COVID-19 Student Handbook Faculty Guide to Student Affairs Title IX Information Departments Commencement Kickoff is coming in June! Pick up your tickets, cap and gown, and get ready to graduate! The day you attend Commencement Kickoff depends on your College. To find out exact dates and to learn more, click here! Brain Fuel Week takes place from May 31st to June 3rd From "Study Jam with HEAT", to "Field Day Frenzy", plenty of events await you to help combat stress before finals! Click here to find an event and register on DeHub! Step Inside The APIDA Cultural Center! The Asian Pacific Islander Desi American Cultural Center is the focus of the latest in Newsline's cultural center series: click here for the article! Division of Student Affairs Loop Campus 25 E. Jackson, Lewis 1400 Chicago, IL 60604 (312) 362-5680 studentaffairs@depaul.edu Lincoln Park Campus 2250 N. Sheffield, Student Center 307 Chicago, IL 60614 (773) 325-4852 studentaffairs@depaul.edu 2001-2018 DePaul University | Disclaimer | Contact Us | Emergency Plan | Consumer Information | IBHE Complaints | Privacy StatementEditor Login Student Affairs