Skip navigation Information For: Current Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Brown University Brown Grad School About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life A to Z Index People Directory Graduate School Academics & Research Distinctive Opportunities Deans’ Faculty Fellows Program Graduate School Skip to Navigation Deans’ Faculty Fellows Program The Offices of the Dean of the Graduate School and the Dean of the Faculty are pleased to continue the expanded Deans’ Faculty Fellows Program for 2022-2023. The Deans’ Faculty Fellows program will award selected students a two-semester academic year appointment as Visiting Assistant Professors, following completion of the PhD degree. Deans’ Faculty Fellows Opportunities Opportunities for Deans’ Faculty Fellows will be posted in early December following a call to departments and centers across campus to submit interest in hosting fellows in their units. The Deans’ Faculty Fellows program will prioritize opportunities that can host students from departments that have paused admission, that support DIAP-related initiatives, that are aligned with University teaching and administrative needs, and that offer students valuable career development. Opportunities will involve hosting a Fellow for two semesters (Fall 2022 and Spring 2023), with the Fellow teaching or co-teaching one course each semester. Some opportunities may replace one course with an administrative or research position. Deans’ Faculty Fellows may take on additional research or teaching duties if funding is available from grants or other departmental sources. Fellows appointed for the 2022-2023 academic year (Fall 2022 and Spring 2023) will receive a salary of $32,000 for 9 months ($16,000 per semester). Fellows who are not otherwise insured and who seek health insurance through Brown will receive an additional taxable health subsidy of $6,500 (for 9 months; $3,250 for 1 semester). For graduate programs that did not pause admissions for 2021-2022 admissions cycle, funding for positions will be drawn primarily from departmental resources. Applicant Eligibility Applicants must be recent Brown PhD alumni, who have the PhD in hand, or Brown doctoral students who commit to completing all requirements for the degree (including completing, defending, and depositing the dissertation) by August 1, 2022. Applicants may be in any year in their graduate program at the time of application, including in year six or above. Brown PhD alumni who received the degree in October 2021 or earlier are not eligible. The fellowships will begin in the fall semester of 2022. The program is open to students of all nationalities. However, international students will have to arrange with the Office of International Students and Scholars (OISSS) for authorization for employment for the term of the appointment (Optional Practical Training). Please note that many students are limited to just 12 months of OPT, and the appointment as a Visiting Assistant Professor will count for 9 months of the OPT. Interested international students should consult in advance with OISSS and follow all guidance as directed, as the process is time-sensitive and delays may prevent stepping into the DFF role. Applicant Selection Criteria The applicant selection criteria will include the applicant’s record of excellence in teaching and scholarship; their commitment to diversity, equity, and inclusion; their timely completion of the degree (with extra consideration for applicants completing in 6 years or less), or, for applicants who do not have the PhD in hand, their timely progress toward degree completion and their plan for completion; and, for all applicants, the support from the advisor and department. Application The application, available in December, will be through UFunds. Applicants should review the posted Deans’ Faculty Fellows opportunities (to be posted in December). Step 1: Applicant completes the Deans’ Faculty Fellows Application Form in UFunds, including the email address of their faculty advisor, director of graduate study, and department chair. Applicants may apply to be considered for up to three posted Deans’ Faculty Fellows opportunities. (The application will be available in December under “Graduate School Distinctive Opportunities” UFunds.) Step 2: The DGS and advisor receive an email prompting them to complete the relevant section of the form in UFunds. When applicable, Chairs receive a request to confirm funding availability. All application materials are due December 20. Selection announcements are anticipated in February 2021. Please note that applicants who are eligible for COVID Appointment Extensions may apply for a summer-only appointment extension if selected for a DFF or submit an application for an academic year extension if not selected for a DFF. For questions, please contact Associate Dean of Student Development, Vanessa Ryan at [email protected]. Home About the Graduate School Healthy Brown FAQs for Graduate Students Academics & Research Ph.D. Requirements Master's Requirements Fields of Study Post-Baccalaureate Research Education Program (PREP) Fifth-Year Master's Degree Concurrent Bachelor's/Master's Degrees Distinctive Opportunities Open Graduate Education Travel Research Funding Deans’ Faculty Fellows Program Interdisciplinary Opportunities Teaching Fellowships for Advanced Students Brown Executive Scholars Training Program Effective Performance Workshops Doctoral Certificates Graduate Advising and Mentoring Rules & Regulations Course Registration Research Professional Development Training Opportunities, Events & Tools Partnerships & Exchanges Living & Resources Financing & Support Admitted Students & Orientation Application Information For Graduate Students For Faculty and Staff Related Items Application via UFunds Dissertation Completion Proposal Past Deans’ Faculty Fellows Current Deans’ Faculty Fellows Deans’ Faculty Fellows Program Opportunities for 2022-2023 Brown University Brown University Graduate School Box 1867 Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-2600 Maps & Directions / Contact Us / Accessibility © 2022 Brown University Resources Graduate School Handbook Academic Code CareerLAB Brown University Writing Center Sarah Doyle Center for Women and Gender Sheridan Center for Teaching & Learning Top Destinations Admission Inquiry Form Commencement Five-Year Ph.D. Support Open Graduate Education External Funding Application Process International Applicants