Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Information For Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff Search BC.edu Links Campus Safety Menu Main Nav Campus Safety What to do in an emergency Back Back Close About Overview FAQ BC Police Department Overview About Meet Our Team In Memory FAQ News Accreditation Contact Community Relations & Crime Prevention Community Resource Officer (CRO) R.A.D. Programs Crime Prevention Education Compliments or Complaints Services Emergency Management Overview Potential Hazards Communication How to Prepare What to Do in an Emergency Students with Disabilities Environmental Health & Safety Overview Laboratory Safety Occupational Health & Safety Programs Indoor Environmental Quality Fire Safety Contact Documents Overview Crime Alerts Annual Campus Security & Fire Safety Report Business Continuity Emergency Plans and Publications What to do in an emergency Close Directory A to Z Listing Search BC.edu Find pages or people Search Close Close Apply Visit Give Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close Potential Hazards Home Emergency Management Potential Hazards Emergency Management Potential Hazards Communication How to Prepare What to Do in an Emergency Students with Disabilities Boston College is a very safe and secure campus where emergencies rarely occur. However, knowing what hazards could occur — and what to do should they occur — is one of the best steps to being prepared. Print Open All Close All Fire Immediate Emergency Actions If you notice fire, smoke or any evidence of fire… Activate the nearest fire alarm or call 911. Call BC Police at 617-552-4444 if possible after you go outside. If there are no fire alarms, knock on doors and yell “fire” as you exit the building. Evacuate the building and DO NOT use elevators! Close doors as you leave. Feel closed doors with the back of your hand. DO NOT open if doors are hot. Move well away from the building when evacuating. Assist others evacuating and let officials know if someone needs help. For More Information About Fires and Preparedness BC Fire Safety Page BC Residential Life Fire Safety Policies Fire Safety & Education for College Students Center for Campus Fire Safety U.S. Fire Administration National Fire Protection Association Ready.gov Fire Page Massachusetts Department of Fire Services Power Outage Immediate Emergency Actions If the power suddenly goes off in the building you are in… Move cautiously to a lighted area. Exits may be indicated by lighted signs if the emergency power is operating. Turn off and unplug computers and other voltage sensitive equipment. To report localized outages, contact the Facilities Work Order Center at 617-552-3048. For information about a prolonged outage, check the BC Emergency website. For More Information on Power Outages and Preparedness American Red Cross Power Outage Checklist Massachusetts Emergency Management Agency FEMA Power Outage Preparedness Eversource Electric Power Outage Safety Page Hazardous Materials Immediate Emergency Actions If you see a chemical spill, detect a strange odor or witness people showing signs of chemical exposure… Move away from the hazard to a safe location. If it is an emergency situation or if anyone is in danger, call BC Police at 617-552-4444. Follow instructions of emergency personnel and be prepared to evacuate or shelter in place. Alert others to stay clear of the area. Notify emergency personnel if you have been exposed to the hazard or have information about the release. For More Information on Hazardous Materials and Preparedness Boston College Environmental Health and Safety FEMA Ready Website American Red Cross OSHA Chemical Hazards & Toxic Substances Earthquake Immediate Emergency Actions If the ground or building you are in begins to shake… If inside, get under a sturdy piece of furniture such as a desk if available, cover your head and neck with your arms and hold on until the shaking stops. Stay away from windows, hanging objects or tall furniture that can topple over or fall off the wall. Stay where you are until the shaking stops. After the shaking stops, evacuate the building. DO NOT use elevators. If outside move to a clear area away from trees, poles and buildings. For More Information on Earthquakes and Preparedness Boston College Weston Observatory (Earthquake Monitoring and Research) U.S. Geological Survey Earthquake Hazard Program National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration Earthquake Info Federal Emergency Management Agency Earthquake Info FEMA Ready Earthquake Info Massachusetts Emergency Management Agency American Red Cross Earthquake Safety Earthquake Country Alliance Federal Alliance for Safe Homes (FLASH) Severe Weather Immediate Emergency Actions If you see or hear threatening weather (ie: tornado, high winds, lightning, thunder, etc) or hear that a Warning has been issued for your area… Seek shelter and get inside immediately to an interior room or hallway. Shut all doors and windows. Stay away from exterior windows and doors. Seek information: check the BC Emergency Website. DO NOT go outside until the storm has passed. After the storm has ended be aware of downed wires and falling objects. For More Information About Severe Weather and Preparedness Winter Weather Preparedness.pdf Spring and Summer Severe Weather Preparedness.pdf National Weather Service Boston Area Forecast Office National Weather Service Weather Safety FEMA Ready Website Massachusetts Emergency Management Agency American Red Cross Federal Alliance for Safe Homes (FLASH) Hurricanes Familiarize yourself with the terms that are used to identify a hurricane. A hurricane watch means a hurricane is possible in your area within the next 48 hours. Be prepared to evacuate. Monitor local radio and television news outlets or listen to NOAA Weather Radio for the latest developments. A hurricane warning is when a hurricane is expected in your area in the next 36 hours. If local authorities advise you to evacuate, leave immediately. If a Hurricane/Tropical Storm Watch/Warning is issued for your area.. Prepare where you live for storm impacts by taking in outdoor items, closing/securing doors/windows and ready your Emergency Supply Kit. Seek information: check the BC Emergency Website. DO NOT go outside until the entire storm has passed. Listen to official information from authorities about when it is safe to venture outside. After the storm has ended be aware of downed wires, broken trees and falling objects. For More Information About Hurricanes and Tropical Weather National Weather Service Massachusetts Emergency Management Agency Federal Emergency Management Agency American Red Cross Federal Alliance for Safe Homes (FLASH) Violent Act or Threat Immediate Emergency Actions If you see a person acting suspiciously, someone violently threatening/injuring someone or a person with a weapon… Do not physically confront the person and do not block the person’s access to an exit. Do not let anyone into a locked building/office. Keep away from the area and alert others to the danger. Call BC Police at 617-552-4444. Provide as much information as possible about the person and his or her direction of travel. Follow instructions of emergency personnel. If told to seek safe shelter, get inside immediately and lock doors. For More Information on Violent Acts, Threats, and Preparedness Safety Guidelines When Encountering Armed subjects.pdf BC Active Shooter Training Video DHS Active Shooter Preparedness FBI Active Shooter Resources FEMA Online Course - Workplace Security Awareness FEMA Online Course - Active Shooter: What You Can Do Bomb Threat/Suspicious Package Immediate Emergency Actions If you see a suspicious package/object or are alerted to a bomb threat… Do not touch or disturb the object. Call BC Police at 617-552-4444. Provide as much information as possible about the threat or object. Notify your supervisor/resident staff. Be prepared to evacuate. If told to evacuate, as you leave, look around for anything suspicious and report to the authorities. For More Information on Bomb Threats and Suspicious Packages DHS Bomb Threat Training Video - What You Can Do FEMA Ready Website Massachusetts Bomb Threat Checklist U.S. Postal Sevice Suspicious Mail or Package Protocols Cyber Threats Computing resources and technology have become integrated and necessary tools we use in everyday life. They provide access to unlimited information and resources and generally make our quality of life better. However, the conveniences of modern technology can also bring a whole new world of threats and risks we all need to be aware of and prepared for. These include identity theft, computer viruses, hackers, cyber predators and others. Use the links below to stay aware of these threats and what you can do to be prepared: BC Information Technology Safe Computing FEMA Ready Site DHS Stop. Think. Connect. Health Emergencies We all want to be healthy, happy and safe. Eating right, getting adequate rest and taking care of ourselves is the best way to maintain a healthy lifestyle. Sometimes despite our best efforts; we can become ill or exposed to germs, viruses, bacteria and other organisms which can make us sick. Being aware of these potential health threats and what you can do to protect yourself from them is the best defense. Use the links below to learn more about healthy habits, health risks and resources. Boston College COVID-19 Updates Boston College Health Services Massachusetts Department of Public Health U.S. Centers for Disease Control U.S. Centers for Disease Control Travel Health Alerts World Health Organization FEMA Ready Site American Red Cross Back To Top Back To Top BC Campus Safety 140 Commonwealth Avenue Chestnut Hill, MA 02467 About BC Police Department Emergency Preparedness Environmental Health & Safety Documents To report a campus emergency: Call BC Police @ 617-552-4444 In case of fire call 911 Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College