Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Morrissey College of Arts and Sciences Information For Search BC.edu Links Romance Languages Menu Main Nav Romance Languages and Literatures Department Romance Languages Contact Back Back Close About Overview News and Notes Contact Giving to Romance Languages and Literatures People Overview Faculty Openings Undergraduate Overview Majors and Minors Course Offerings Language Programs French Curriculum and Courses Language Requirement Major and Minor in French Other Opportunities to Learn French on Campus Study and Work Abroad FAQ and Useful Links Italian Why Study Italian? Language Requirement Curriculum and Courses Major and Minor in Italian Study Abroad FAQ Portuguese Why Learn Portuguese? Spanish Where to Start Language Requirement General Guidelines for Placement Get Ready for the Semester Coordinators Curriculum and Courses Major and Minor in Hispanic Studies Other Opportunities to Learn Spanish on Campus Study and Work Abroad FAQ Language Placement Language Requirement For Language Instructors Honors Program Undergraduate Honors Theses Current Year - 2002 Honors Theses 1986-2001 Honor Societies Study Abroad Teach Abroad Academic Integrity Graduate Overview Master of Arts Programs Course Offerings Graduate Resources Nguyen Prize for Academic Excellence Nguyen Research Travel Prize Nguyen Fund for Graduate Student Professional Formation Ecole Normale Supérieure Exchange Graduate Funding Our Students Graduate Degree Recipients Previous Degree Recipients Career Paths of Doctoral Graduates Career Paths of Masters Graduates Ph.D. Dissertations Graduate Conference Language Careers Close Contact Directory A to Z Listing Search Morrissey College Search BC.edu Find pages or people Search Close Close BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close Romance Languages and Literatures Home Undergraduate Language Programs Italian Italian Why Study Italian? Language Requirement Curriculum and Courses Major and Minor in Italian Study Abroad FAQ Italian Language Program Welcome to the Italian Language Program at BC! At Boston College students will find a wide range of opportunities to develop and practice their Italian and enjoy the beauty and diversity of Italian culture. The Italian Language Program offers courses and supplementary practica for students at all levels of proficiency. Each semester between 250 and 300 students—including Italian Studies majors and minors and students in other disciplines—enroll in our program's language courses, which are taught by dedicated professors and graduate-level instructors. Composed of six semesters of language instruction over three years, our curriculum has been carefully designed to foster progressive acquisition of proficiency in Italian. From the first day of class, students are exposed to the Italian language and trained to practice the essential skills (speaking, listening, reading and writing) while expanding their vocabulary and learning new grammar points and structures in context. All courses incorporate the study of Italian culture. Students build their language skills while learning to understand relevant sociocultural and historical aspects of Italy and appreciate and celebrate the differences between its culture and our own. Learning Outcomes ELEMENTARY ITALIAN Elementary Italian focuses on building students’ communication skills. From the first day of class, students will interact in Italian with the instructor and their classmates. By the end of the second semester, students should be able to successfully manage a significant number of spoken and written communicative tasks in different verb tenses in the target language. Upon successful completion of the Elementary sequence (ITAL1003 and ITAL1004), students should be able to: speak in Italian to describe, narrate stories, and carry on spontaneous conversations about topics such as family, daily activities, food, clothing, health, likes and dislikes and events in the past. comprehend the target language well enough to understand the main ideas and additional details in short conversations referring to the topics mentioned above and other situations in different verb tenses. read and understand texts (some prepared specifically for students and some primary sources) dealing with a variety of cultural products and practices. write basic compositions about a variety of themes in simple but complete sentences and compose short paragraphs, displaying good control of Italian grammar and sentence structure. recognize, appreciate and compare similarities and differences between their own culture and Italian culture. INTERMEDIATE ITALIAN Intermediate Italian also follows a communicative approach. Class is conducted entirely in the target language. Nearly all course materials are primary sources, carefully chosen to match the students’ interests and capabilities. At the end of the second semester students will be able to express opinions on a wide variety of topics of personal interest and in different communicative settings. Upon successful completion of the Intermediate sequence (ITAL1113 and ITAL1114) students should be able to: speak in the target language to narrate and describe in the present, past and future and express opinions about topics relating to their own lives and the lives of Italians, especially around topics such as student and family life, traveling, cinema, Italian products and economy, music, holidays, Italian art and current events in Italy. comprehend more complex and formal spoken language, including primary-source videos and recordings, with some assistance. read selected primary sources on everyday topics with assistance from tools such as vocabulary annotations and comprehension aids. write paragraphs in Italian in a variety of formats, from summaries and cross-cultural observations to more formal but guided research papers based on course themes. understand and appreciate current and classic elements of a foreign culture, especially as they relate to the lives of young people in Italy, and make comparisons to their own cultural experiences. CONVERSATION, COMPOSITION, AND READING (CCR) In Conversation, Composition and Reading (CCR), students will increase their fluency and solidify their spoken and written accuracy in Italian while focusing on complex grammar topics, expanding their vocabulary and broadening their understanding of diverse cultural and historical aspects of Italy. CCR fosters students’ analytical, critical and creative skills in the target language through the study of primary source materials such as newspapers, reports, short films and literary texts and through systematic practice of three essential modes of communication: interpersonal, presentational and interpretive. Upon successful completion of the CCR sequence (ITAL2213 and ITAL2214) students should be able to: speak spontaneously in conversations on topics that are familiar, of personal interest, or pertinent to everyday life. Students should also be able to speak about more formal or specific topics with preparation. comprehend the main ideas and relevant details of extended general speech from diverse primary audiovisual materials in standard language. read and interpret extensive articles and reports related to contemporary topics, understanding important details and nuances. Students should also be able to understand contemporary literary texts in the target language with some assistance. write clear and detailed compositions in which they support their views on a wide variety of general topics. Students should also be able to write narrative and argumentative essays on specific topics with previous preparation. understand and appreciate the diverse culture of Italy and develop an awareness of the historical, political and sociocultural differences between their culture and our own. understand and appreciate current and classic elements of a foreign culture, especially as they relate to the lives of young people in Italy, and make comparisons to their own cultural experiences. CONVERSATION, COMPOSITION, AND READING (CCR) In Conversation, Composition and Reading (CCR), students will increase their fluency and solidify their spoken and written accuracy in Italian while focusing on complex grammar topics, expanding their vocabulary and broadening their understanding of diverse cultural and historical aspects of Italy. CCR fosters students’ analytical, critical and creative skills in the target language through the study of primary source materials such as newspapers, reports, short films and literary texts and through systematic practice of three essential modes of communication: interpersonal, presentational and interpretive. Upon successful completion of the CCR sequence (ITAL2213 and ITAL2214) students should be able to: speak spontaneously in conversations on topics that are familiar, of personal interest, or pertinent to everyday life. Students should also be able to speak about more formal or specific topics with preparation. comprehend the main ideas and relevant details of extended general speech from diverse primary audiovisual materials in standard language. read and interpret extensive articles and reports related to contemporary topics, understanding important details and nuances. Students should also be able to understand contemporary literary texts in the target language with some assistance. write clear and detailed compositions in which they support their views on a wide variety of general topics. Students should also be able to write narrative and argumentative essays on specific topics with previous preparation. understand and appreciate the diverse culture of Italy and develop an awareness of the historical, political and sociocultural differences between their culture and our own. Back To Top Back To Top Romance Languages and Literatures Department Lyons Hall 304 617-552-3820 rll@bc.edu Morrissey College of Arts and Sciences Gasson Hall 140 Commonwealth Avenue Chestnut Hill, MA 02467 About Undergraduate Graduate Faculty & Research Departments Contact Departments Art, Art History, and Film Biology Chemistry Classical Studies Communication Computer Science Earth and Environmental Sciences Economics Engineering English German Studies History Mathematics Music Philosophy Physics Political Science Psychology Romance Languages and Literatures Slavic & Eastern Languages and Literatures Sociology Theatre Theology Giving to the Department Apply Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College