Skip to content Cornell University Search toggle menu close About Cornell About Cornell Overview University Facts Maps & Directions Mission & Vision Core Values Locations Ithaca New York City Related Links Diversity Indigenous Engagement Economic Impact Sustainability Global Cornell Leadership Admissions Overview Undergraduate Apply Admissions Dates and Deadlines Costs and Aid Graduate Admissions Fields of Study Financial Support Continuing Education & Summer Sessions Summer Sessions Winter Sessions Part-time Study Academics Academics Overview Fields of Study Colleges & Schools Departments Library Continuing Education Related Links Office of the Provost Academic Calendar Course Catalog Global Learning Learning Goals Research Overview Explore Cornell Research Extreme Talent. Radical Collaboration. Results That Matter. Related Links Vice President for Research and Innovation Centers & Institutes Technology Licensing (CTL) Graduate Research Undergraduate Research OVPRI Research Publications Public Engagement Overview Featured CCE helps Buffalo get school food truck rolling Related Links Cornell Cooperative Extension Engaged Cornell Hub Land Grant to New York State New York State Impact Life at Cornell Life at Cornell Overview Athletics & Recreation Arts & Culture Health & Safety Live, Work, Travel Student Life Related Links Find Your Networks Center for First-Year Students Clubs & Student Groups More Toggle navigation Apply Undergraduate Graduate Visit Give Students Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Search Search Site Information Accessibility Statement Cornell University is committed to diversity and inclusiveness, with the goal of providing an accessible, usable, and welcoming environment to all. As we worked to redesign cornell.edu in 2014, user accessibility was foremost in our minds and we will continue to prioritize it in the following ways: All videos featured on the cornell.edu site will have captions. When posting timely content or breaking news such as live streams, initial archives of press conferences, and the like, captions may not be immediately available to users, but will be added to the file in short order. Captions will be turned off by default, but will be selectable by the user via the player interface. The cornell.edu team will work with Student Disability Services to do routine accessibility audits by people with disabilities. Additionally, we will run regular accessibility scans using tools available to us online. We will continue to code the site using best practices regarding accessibility and will stay abreast of developments in the field as the site matures, making changes as necessary and appropriate. Supported Browsers We have performed extensive testing to ensure usability across a wide range of platforms and devices. However, to maximize your experience, we recommend a modern browser. We support the current and previous two releases of Chrome, Firefox, Safari and Edge, and the iOS and Android mobile operating systems. This site requires JavaScript and utilizes cookies. Helpful Links expand menu Academic Calendar Leadership Careers Events News Title IX Emergency Preparedness Visiting Cornell expand menu Campus Tours Maps & Directions Ithaca-NYC Travel Johnson Museum Botanic Gardens Ithaca Ithaca Today expand menu Live View Weather 79°F / 26°C Ithaca, New York University Privacy Web Accessibility Assistance Copyright Site Information Contact Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube