Skip to main content Skip to main navigation SearchMenu Baylor>Search Find Site By A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z Websites starting with 'I': I-35 Construction The Texas Department of Transportation, the City of Waco and Baylor University are preparing for the first phase of a major, multi-year reconstruction project on Interstate 35, which will have a significant impact on the University for the duration of the project. Aligning with TxDOT’s communications efforts, Baylor University has assembled a campus-wide subcommittee to develop a plan for timely communications to faculty, staff, students, alumni and visitors as details are finalized on the I-35 project. ID Card Baylor University's ID card is a single-card program that combines many features including identification, library privileges, building access, lab access, meal plans, selected student functions, football ticket distribution, plus other activities. Ignite Login to Baylor’s transformational enterprise system based on cloud technology that revolutionizes financial, human resources, and grants management processes, providing better information and more focus on impactful work in support of Illuminate. Ignite Information & Training This website will provide you with information and training resources for Ignite, Baylor’s transformational enterprise system based on cloud technology that revolutionizes financial, human resources, and grants management processes, providing better information and more focus on impactful work in support of Illuminate. Illuminate Baylor University has embarked on a new Academic Strategic Plan - Illuminate - that draws upon the institution’s heritage and commitment to becoming a preeminent Christian research university, as outlined in Pro Futuris. Impact Living-Learning Center Impact LLC is open to Baylor students of all majors who share a belief in the power of transformative education as a key element in all disciplines, while providing a special home for students pursuing education as a future profession. Inauguration The inauguration and installation of Linda A. Livingstone as Baylor University's fifteenth president will be on Thursday, October 26, in the Ferrell Center, located at the intersection of University Parks Drive and LaSalle Avenue. Informatics The Baylor Computer Science department offers a Bachelor of Science in Bioinformatics. Information Systems and Business Analytics The Information Systems Department's primary goal is to excel in teaching quantitative and critical thinking skills as well as interpersonal skills. Students are given opportunities to develop strong abilities in areas such as leadership, written and oral communications, and teamwork. Information on Undergraduate Degree programs is found here. Information Technology Services Whether it is a student checking their e-mail in the Student Life Center, a faculty member providing information to students via the web, Baylor employees looking for support systems, or prospective students or friends of Baylor looking for information on the Baylor website: The Baylor ITS organizations are committed to providing world-class service. Institute for Air Science The Institute for Air Science was created in 1991 with the goal of advancing Baylor University's mission through research, public service and the education of a new generation of pilots. In the same year, the institute initiated the Bachelor of Science in Aviation Science (B.S.A.S.) degree, and graduated its first class in 1995. Institute for Faith & Learning The Institute for Faith and Learning was founded in 1997 to assist Baylor in achieving its mission of integrating academic excellence and Christian commitment, and its goal of becoming a university of the first rank committed to its Baptist and Christian heritage. Institute for Oral History Located since 1970 in Central Texas, the Institute for Oral History is a freestanding research department within the Division of Academic Affairs of Baylor University. Institute for Studies of Religion (ISR) ISR - Institute of Study on Religion Institute of Biomedical Studies The home page of the Institute of Biomedical Studies. Institutional Effectiveness The mission of the Office of Institutional Effectiveness (IE) is to provide leadership and assistance in developing and overseeing processes designed to enhance the effectiveness of programs and services at Baylor University. Institutional Events Institutional Events staff welcomes the opportunity to assist you with your special event. Our services include facility reservations, menu planning, audio/visual services, event production, event communications and much more. Let us help you create the WOW experience that you and your guests deserve. Institutional Research The primary mission of Institutional Research is to conduct research in order to provide information which supports institutional planning, policy information, and decision making. Institutional Review Board Baylor University operates a Human Research Protection Program (HRPP) to protect the rights and welfare of individuals who volunteer to participate in the research mission of Baylor. While the ultimate responsibility for the treatment of all human subjects in research rests with the individual researcher (faculty, students, or staff) who has been given the privilege to conduct research with humans, the IRB exists as a safeguard to promote the ethical and responsible treatment of human subjects in research, by conducting an ethical review of research studies while providing education and guidance for the research community. Interior Design The mission of Baylor University’s Interior Design program is to provide a transformative undergraduate education that prepares students to serve with Christian integrity in a diverse and global marketplace, equipped to address human needs by applying research methodology that promotes the health, safety and well-being of all users within the built environment. Interlibrary Services It is physically and fiscally impossible for the Baylor Libraries to own every document or information resource needed to support all scholarly activities of its clients. Interlibrary Services is a dedicated team of men and women in the Libraries who try to locate the desired items in other collections around the world and then try to obtain them for temporary use by our clients. Internal Audit and Management Analysis The mission of the Office of Internal Audit and Management Analysis is to support Baylor University by promoting integrity and compliance in all university operations. International Student and Scholar Services The International Student and Scholar Services (ISSS) Office provides guidance and support to those at Baylor who have an F-1 visa or J-1 visa, helping them with their initial transition to Baylor and their connection to the Baylor experience. Italian The home page for the Italian language department. ITS - Self Service Help Search for answers/knowledge about Information Technology systems and services at your convenience. The solutions here have been provided by Right Answers Knowledge-Pak and from Baylor-owned training materials. Show More General Information Colleges, Schools, Libraries & Research Admissions Administration Gateways For... About Baylor Anonymous Reporting Athletics Ask Baylor Bookstore Calendar Campus Map Directory Give Light Give to Baylor Illuminate Mental Health Resources News Pro Futuris Report It Search Social Media Title IX Baylor Libraries College of Arts & Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work George W. Truett Theological Seminary Graduate School Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Louise Herrington School of Nursing Research at Baylor University Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Engineering & Computer Science School of Music More Academics Undergraduate Admissions goBAYLOR Graduate Admissions Baylor Law School Admissions Social Work Graduate Programs George W. Truett Theological Seminary Admissions Online Graduate Professional Education Virtual Tour Visit Campus Annual Fire Safety and Security Notice Athletics Human Resources Marketing and Communications Office of General Counsel Office of the President Office of the Provost Operations, Finance & Administration Senior Administration Student Life University Advancement Baylor Alumni Faculty & Staff Online Graduate Professional Education Parents Prospective Faculty & Staff Prospective Students Students Copyright © Baylor® University. All rights reserved. Legal Disclosures. Baylor University • Waco, Texas 76798 • 1-800-229-5678