Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu UofM Media Room Publications News Releases Podcasts Events Resources Contact Us Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact News Releases Awards News Releases Archive Take Action Music Performance Calendar Upcoming Art Exhibits University Events Contact Us Follow Us Online InstagramFacebooktwitterYoutubeLinkedIn Home UofM Media Room News Releases UMRF Ventures University of Memphis Research Foundation Announces Grand Opening of Student-Operated Call Center FedEx Signs on as First Customer August 29, 2017 - The University of Memphis Research Foundation and its wholly-owned subsidiary, UMRF Ventures Inc., announce the grand opening of a unique, student-operated call center as part of an economic development initiative designed to provide real and transferable opportunities to students in the Memphis community. In addition, the University announced that FedEx has signed on as the venture's first customer. Once operational, student employees at the support center will handle technical support calls from FedEx team members, including "first level" technical support, like phone configuration and basic application and computing device troubleshooting. It is expected that the center will initially employ approximately 20 student agents from 8 a.m. to 8 p.m. seven days a week, 365 days a year. "Our first goal as an academic institution is to prepare our students for success after graduation. We know that students who study, live and work on campus are more engaged in the life of the University. This leads them to graduate faster plus have stronger GPAs," said UofM President M. David Rudd. "The UMRF Ventures call center at the FedEx Institute of Technology serves as a template for future opportunities that benefit our students. We welcome other businesses and nonprofit organizations to partner with us in innovative ways that utilize the skills of the best and brightest students in our region." "We're pleased to mark the beginning of this innovative agreement between the University of Memphis and FedEx," said Robert B. Carter, executive vice president and chief information officer for FedEx Corporation. "We have a long-standing relationship with the University and believe that this venture will benefit the students, the Memphis community and FedEx." Tom Kadien, CEO of UMRF Ventures, said, "This is the first of many steps on a journey toward creating opportunities for more students to earn good wages in a professional environment and to become the most competitive candidates they can be in any job market. Corporations like FedEx that invest in the future workforce with innovative programs like this know that they are contributing to the long-term success of their companies." Chloe Sutton, a call center supervisor and master's student at the UofM, said, "This is an amazing opportunity for me to gain professional experience with one of the world's largest companies and it helps me pay for my graduate degree while doing meaningful work." UMRF Ventures, FedEx and the UofM will celebrate the grand opening of the call center with a launch/media event Aug. 31 at 3:30 p.m. at the FedEx Institute of Technology. For more information on this event, contact mdawson@memphis.edu. For media information regarding UMRF Ventures, contact tomkdn56@umrfventures.com. FOR MORE INFORMATION Mary Ann Dawson 901.678.1592 mdawson@memphis.edu Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 3/22/22 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.