Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu UofM Media Room Publications News Releases Podcasts Events Resources Contact Us Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact Take Action Music Performance Calendar Upcoming Art Exhibits University Events Contact Us Follow Us Online InstagramFacebooktwitterYoutubeLinkedIn Home UofM Media Room Resources Calendar Guidelines Guidelines for use of UofM Campus Calendar Who can submit events to the calendar for approval? Students, faculty and staff with a @memphis.edu email address are encouraged to submit events to the calendar to increase exposure and share information with the campus community. What types of events may be posted? Events may include university-sponsored lectures, workshops, training programs, arts events, sporting events, social events, University holidays and academic deadlines. They may include on-campus events or selected off-campus events sponsored by a UofM group. Only open events will be approved to be listed. Paid/ticketed events are acceptable, as long as anyone has an opportunity to purchase a ticket. Events restricted to a specific guest list will not be added. Events must be of broad interest to the overall campus community, a large segment of the campus community (e.g., all faculty, staff or students) or the general public. Campus calendar postings will be restricted to events sponsored or co-sponsored by organizations or departments officially with the University of Memphis Events that will NOT be posted include: events where UofM serves only as the venue for a non-University event, general deadlines or reminders, promotional or sales events, job postings or other non-event advertisements. How do I submit events to the calendar? Calendar requests will only be accepted through the “Submit an Event” form. Use the UofM Campus Calendar as a planning resource before scheduling your event to see what other events are happening that day. You must confirm your space and all event details before submitting the event for the calendar. Keep your description short while including why the viewer would want to attend. Use a descriptive title. For example, rather than “Chemistry Seminar,” give the name of the seminar topic. Limit to eight words or fewer. Since the calendar is viewable to the general public, include who the event is for in the body field. Spell out acronyms, avoid exclamation points, check spelling, indicate if RSVP is required. Submit your event as early as possible, but no later than one week prior to the event. Select a category/categories that accurately describe your event. If a category is not listed that would better suit your event, include a request in the notes to the administrator. If your event is a series or ongoing event, please make a notation in the notes to the administrator. If the series has random dates (i.e. every other Friday or the 15th of each month), you must submit each event separately. The administrator will link the events together. If it occurs the same time each week (i.e. every Monday), include that in the notes to administrator and only submit the first event in the series. Images should be no wider than 400px or larger than 72 dpi. Who reviews my event submission? The campus calendar is managed by the Department of Marketing & Communication. All events must be approved by the Campus Calendar administrator prior to posting on the calendar. The calendar administrator may decline a submission request if: The event does not conform to the guidelines above. The submission form is not properly completed. The requestor does not provide a valid @memphis.edu email address and contact information. The request includes inappropriate or offensive content, including profanity; references to illegal activities; defamatory or harassing language aimed at an individual or group; etc. Other reasons at the discretion of the calendar administrator You will receive an email notification as to whether or not your event was approved or denied. How do I make changes to my submission? Event submitters are responsible for assuring that the information for each event they submit is accurate and up-to-date. If an event is changed, postponed or canceled, you must notify the calendar administrator at hrowsey@memphis.edu immediately. How do I access RSVPs for my event? (insert instructions for accessing RSVPs) Featured/Homepage Events Some events will be selected to be a "featured event" on the calendar or to be listed on the memphis.edu homepage under "Upcoming Events.” Selection will be determined by the University Calendar admins and will primarily be based on the event’s appeal to a wide audience or tie-in to UofM’s strategic goals. Disclaimer: Despite our best efforts, event information is subject to change and some information may be incorrect. We may not have information on an event you want to attend. We regret any inconvenience caused as a result, but the Department of Marketing and Communication is not responsible for any miscommunication by the event hosts. If you have a question about an event you saw on the University Calendar, please refer to the contact information on the detail page for that event. If you have additional questions or have submitted an event for approval and have not been contacted within 48 hours of submission, please contact hrowsey@memphis.edu or 901.678.2333. Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 3/22/22 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.