Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. LGBTQ Center right arrow down arrow About Us Signature Programs right arrow down arrow Pride Ambassador Program Cincinnati Pride Support Groups Trainings and Presentations right arrow down arrow Open Enrollment Safe Zone Training Resources Home » Campus Life » LGBTQ Center LGBTQ Center Gender Marker Update Mission The LGBTQ Center supports the mission of the University of Cincinnati through a commitment to diversity, equity, leadership development, and intellectual inquiry with particular respect to sexual orientation and gender identity. The Center is an inclusive campus community that welcomes people of all sexual orientations and gender identities and provides support, resources and advocacy. The Center facilitates LGBTQ visibility by promoting and enhancing understanding, acceptance, and awareness regarding LGBTQ issues. Purpose The LGBTQ Center enhances the campus community for LGBTQ students and their allies through intentional advocacy, providing a safe space, intersectional programming, and access to culturally relevant resources. Campus Climate The University of Cincinnati is a Premier Campus, earning 4.5 out of 5 stars in the Campus Pride Index, a national listing of LGBTQ-friendly colleges and universities. The index is an overall indicator of institutional commitment to LGBTQ-inclusive policy, program and practice. Additionally, in a recent national ranking the University has been ranked #52 among the top LGBTQ-friendliest coileges and universities. Directions The LGBTQ Center is located on the 5th floor of Steger Student Life Center. We can be accessed quickly by the outdoor stairwell across from Starbucks. Accessible Route: Enter Steger Student Life Center through the entrance (with automated open button) on the ground level near Student Activities and Leadership Development (SALD). Entrance is located on Mainstreet accross from the Campus Recreation Center and Center Court Dining Hall. Take the elevator to the 5th floor. Turn left out of the elevator and continue down the hallway to room 565. Request More Information LGBTQ Center 2801 UC Main Street 565 Steger Student Life Center Cincinnati, OH 45221-0179 513-556-0009 UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati LGBTQ Center 2801 UC Main Street 565 Steger Student Life Center Cincinnati, OH 45221-0179 513-556-0009 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top