Skip to site alert. Skip to content Columbia School of Nursing Students Alumni Faculty Contact Us Search Make a Gift About Us About Us Message From the Dean Leadership Faculty Our Culture News Events Facts and Figures Accreditation Make a Gift Contact Us Our Culture Diversity and Cultural Affairs Civility Statement Social Justice and Health Equity and Anti-Racism Commitment Sustainability Our History Jonas Partnership Join Our Team Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Learn about our commitment to social justice and health equality and anti-racism. View Our Progress Academics Academics A Columbia Nursing Education Admissions at a Glance Academic Programs Courses Financial Aid Continuing Nursing Education Helene Fuld Health Trust Simulation Center Academic Programs Doctor of Nursing Practice Doctor of Nursing Practice in Nurse Anesthesia Doctor of Philosophy Masters Direct Entry Program For Non-Nurses Masters in Advanced Clinical Management and Leadership Online Prerequisites for Entry to Nursing Transgender Non-Binary (Trans NB) Health Care for Advance Practice Nurses and PAs Palliative Care Throughout the Lifespan for Advanced Practice Registered Nurses (APRNs) Admissions at a Glance Learn more about Admissions at Columbia Nursing, including important dates and deadlines, and how to apply to all of our programs. Learn More About Admissions Research Research Research Faculty and Postdoctoral Fellows Research Areas of Focus Research Centers and Programs Training Programs Research Resources Research Centers and Programs Center for Health Policy Center for Improving Palliative Care for Vulnerable Adults with MCC Precision in Symptom Self-Management Center Center for Healthcare Delivery Research and Innovations Center for Research on People of Color Center for Sexual and Gender Minority Health Research Linking to Improve Nursing Knowledge Research Areas of Focus Explore the research areas of focus conducted by our faculty, postdocs, and students. View Our Focus Areas Patient Care Global Health Global Health Global Opportunities for Students Global Research International Visitors WHO Collaborating Center Contact Global Opportunities for Students Global opportunities for clinical practicum and research may be available for MDE and doctoral students at Columbia Nursing. Get More Information You are here Home > Academics > Admissions at a Glance A Columbia Nursing Education Admissions at a Glance Admissions Events Academic Programs Courses Financial Aid Continuing Nursing Education Helene Fuld Health Trust Simulation Center Admissions at a Glance Program Information and Application Deadlines 2023 Applications Applications for many of our programs will become available in June 2022 along with updated deadline information. Please review the detailed information provided for each of the nursing programs, including admission information and curriculum. Join our mailing list and receive our digital brochure: Join Our Mailing List Attend an Event Attend an event to learn more about our programs and deadlines. Attend an Event Attend an Event Meet with Admissions Meet with Admissions to get your questions answered. Meet with Admissions Meet with Admissions Masters Direct Entry (MDE) Program for Non-Nurses Our 15-month MDE program will prepare students to enter the nursing profession as masters-credentialed registered nurses with a focus on care coordination. Deadline: October 2022 Apply to the MDE Program Doctor of Nursing Practice (DNP) in Nurse Anesthesia The Doctor of Nursing Practice in Nurse Anesthesia program prepares students for advanced clinical practice. Deadline: September 2022 Apply to the Nurse Anesthesia Program Doctor of Nursing Practice (DNP) The DNP program prepares registered nurses and advanced practice nurses to provide fully accountable and continuous care to patients across settings and during transitions. Deadline: January 2023 Apply to the DNP Program Doctor of Philosophy (PhD) Building on a foundation in nursing science and research methods, PhD graduates conduct evidence-based research independently and as part of interdisciplinary teams. Deadline: December 2022 Apply to the PhD Program Masters in Advanced Clinical Management and Leadership The Masters in Advanced Clinical Management and Leadership grew from our relationship with our affiliates to advance the education of Bachelors prepared RNs to the Masters level. Deadline: March 1, 2022 Note: This program is limited to employees of NewYork-Presbyterian Hospital. Apply to the ACML Program Online Prerequisites for Entry to Nursing (OPEN) Program The Online Prerequisites for Entry to Nursing (OPEN) program allows non-nurses to take courses needed to apply to nursing school or other health professions that require science prerequisites. Fall 2022 Entry Deadline: June 28, 2022 Spring 2023 Entry Deadline: October 28, 2022* Apply to the OPEN Program *Applications will become available in July 2022. Transgender Non-Binary (Trans NB) Health Care for Advance Practice Nurses and PAs Program The Transgender Non-Binary Health Care Certificate Program is designed for advanced practice nurses and physician assistants to advance their knowledge and skills to provide quality care to trans NB people. Deadline: June 1, 2022 Apply to the Trans NB Program Palliative Care Throughout the Lifespan for Advanced Practice Registered Nurses (APRNs) The Palliative Care Throught the Lifespan Certificate Program takes a true lifespan approach in preparing advance practice registered nurses to address palliative care for perinatal, pediatric, adult and geriatric patients and families. Deadline: June 15, 2022 Apply to the Palliative Care CPA Program What is it like to be a student at Columbia Nursing? View Our Student Profiles View Our Student Profiles Contact the Office of Admissions 560 West 168th Street New York, NY 10032 United States 212-305-5756 Preferred: nursing@cumc.columbia.edu Open location in Google Maps Walk-in Hours: Mon, Tue, and Fri: 10:00 AM - 4:00 PM Appointments Only: Wed and Thu: 10:00 AM - 4:00 PM Note: We are not accepting any walk-ins or in-person appointments until further notice. General FAQ Does Columbia University School of Nursing offer distance learning programs? Columbia Nursing offers two distance learning programs - the Online Prerequisites for Entry to Nursing (OPEN) program and the Transgender/Gender Non-Binary (Trans GNB) Health Care for Nurse Practitioners certificate program. Are part-time programs offered? Columbia Nursing does not offer part-time academic programs. However, many of our programs allow students to work in some capacity, typically part-time or per diem. Does Columbia Nursing accept transfer credits from other schools? Columbia Nursing accepts up to nine credits of coursework for Advanced Standing. Once accepted into the program and prior to the start of classes, accepted students are provided information regarding how to apply for Advanced Standing. Can I study abroad while at Columbia Nursing? The Office of Global Health works with students who would like to seek an opportunity to study abroad. The countries with which Columbia Nursing has partnerships include, but are not limited to: the Dominican Republic, Jamaica, Mexico, Spain, Nepal, Italy, and Malawi. For questions on opportunities, please email globalfellows@cumc.columbia.edu. Does Columbia Nursing offer housing? Yes! Columbia University offers limited on-campus housing opportunities for Columbia University Irving Medical Center students in addition to off-campus housing resources. For more information on housing, visit our Office of Housing Services website. Admissions FAQ Columbia Nursing follows a holistic admission process. What does that mean? Columbia Nursing considers all components of the application during the review process. This, in turn, is a balanced review of the applicant’s experiences, attributes, and academic metrics which determines the value of the applicant as a nursing student in one of our programs. What does the admissions committee consider to be a competitive grade point average? There is no minimum grade point average (GPA) required for our programs. How does Columbia Nursing compute my grade point average? Columbia Nursing uses the cumulative GPA achieved at the institution from where you completed your degree or where you completed the majority of your degree credits. We do not combine the GPA achieved if an applicant attended multiple institutions. Please note that applicants are required to submit transcripts for all institutions attended regardless of its relevancy to a nursing program. Does Columbia Nursing require the GREs? Columbia Nursing does not require the GREs for admission into our academic programs, except for applicants who are applying to the PhD program. Where can I complete the required prerequisites? Prerequisites can be completed at a regionally accredited college or university, in-person, or online. Here is a reference list of regionally accredited institutions. When do I need to complete my prerequisite courses? Prerequisite courses are required to be completed prior to the start of classes in the program, not by the application deadline. Are exceptions granted for the prerequisite course grade if I don't meet the minimum grade? Unfortunately, no exceptions are granted on the minimum prerequisite course grade. Applicants will need to retake the course if they do not meet the minimum grade requirement. If I retake a prerequisite and earn a higher grade, will Columbia consider the better grade? Yes, we will consider the higher grade when reviewing prerequisite courses up until a decision has been made on the application. If you retake a course after the application deadline and it is not reflected on the application, please ensure to contact the Office of Admissions to update your application accordingly. Is there an expiration date for prerequisite courses that I have completed? The only course that has an “expiration date” is Statistics which must have been completed five years prior to the start date of the program you are applying to (i.e. for Summer 2022 start, Statistics must have been completed no earlier than Spring 2017). Do you require labs for prerequisite courses? Labs are not required for the prerequisite courses. However, please check with the state in which you anticipate to gain licensure in to determine whether the completion of lab courses are required in order to be licensed in that state. When are applications available? Applications are open in June for a program that starts the following year. For example, applications for programs starting in 2022 are available in June 2021. Do you accept applicants on a rolling basis? No, we do not accept applicants on a rolling basis as our programs operate on a cohort model. Who reviews my application? Applications are reviewed by an admissions committee composed of program directors, faculty, and admissions staff. Who should write my letters of recommendation? Letters of recommendations should be written by supervisors, professors, or advisors who know you well and who can speak to your skills. For more information on the recommendation letters, please ensure to review our application requirements. How are decision letters distributed? Decision letters are posted to the online application. Once decisions are made, an email will be sent to the applicant to log into their account to view their decision. What is your process for waitlisted students? During application review, the admissions committee may decide to waitlist an application. If so, waitlisted applicants will be notified of their status. Waitlisted applicants must electronically submit the Waitlist Intent Form (which is attached to their decision letter) in order to indicate their intent to be placed on the waitlist. Applicants who have been waitlisted are welcome to submit any updates to their application (i.e. resume or prerequisite updates) through the electronic application portal. If the admissions committee decides to accept applicants from the waitlist, applicants will be notified accordingly. Applicants may be accepted off of the waitlist up until New Student Orientation. Can I reapply if I am not offered admission into the program? Absolutely. If your application is denied admission, you can apply to the program again the following year. We encourage applicants who seek to reapply to review the components of their previously submitted application in order to increase their competitiveness. For questions, please contact the Office of Admissions. Columbia University Irving Medical Center NewYork-Presbyterian ColumbiaDoctors About Us Academics Research Patient Care Global Health Contact Us Students Alumni Intranet Careers Columbia University School of Nursing 560 West 168th Street New York, NY 10032 United States Follow Us Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube LinkedIn Back to top