Skip to content Clemson University COVID-19 Extension Updates and Resources ... More Information » close Clemson University Search Menu Close Sorry, your browser does not support inline SVG. Sorry, your browser does not support inline SVG. Apply Giving News Resources for Students Faculty & Staff Parents Alumni Clemson University Academics Forward Arrow Back Arrow Back Academics Home Employment Opportunities Apply for Admission Colleges College of Agriculture, Forestry and Life Sciences College of Architecture, Arts and Humanities College of Behavioral, Social and Health Sciences Wilbur O. and Ann Powers College of Business College of Education College of Engineering, Computing and Applied Sciences College of Science Graduate School Academic Resources Academic Calendar Registrar Division of Undergraduate Studies Center for Career and Professional Development Academic Success Center GRAD 360° Libraries Outside the Classroom PEER/WISE Call Me MISTER® Creative Inquiry and Undergraduate Research Cooperative Education University Professional Internship and Co-op Program (UPIC) Study Abroad Admissions Forward Arrow Back Arrow Back Admissions Home Schedule a Tour Apply for Admission Applying to Clemson First-Year Undergraduate Transfer Undergraduate International Undergraduate Graduate Students Academic Opportunities Majors Graduate Programs Online Graduate Programs Scholar Programs Paths to Graduate School Honors College Experiential Learning Financial Aid Tuition and Fee Calculator Undergraduate Financial Aid Graduate Fellowships and Awards Residency Requirements Campus Life Forward Arrow Back Arrow Back Campus Life Home Club Sports Brooks Center for the Performing Arts Join Your Clemson Family Finding Your Community Living-Learning Communities Student Veterans Multicultural Programs FIRST Army ROTC Air Force ROTC Services On Campus Housing & Dining Campus Recreation Parking and Transportation Student Health Services TigerOne Card Services Clemson Athletics Get Involved Clubs and Organizations Fraternity and Sorority Life Orientation Ambassadors Tiger Media Graduate Student Government Undergraduate Student Government Research Forward Arrow Back Arrow Back Research Home Clemson University Research Foundation (CURF) Division of Research Research Opportunities Student Research at Clemson Creative Inquiry Research Facilities Postdoctoral Affairs Serving South Carolina Through Research School of Health Research Public Service and Agriculture Clemson Experimental Forest Clemson Extension Clemson Research and Education Centers Public Service and Agriculture Research Farm Services Innovation and Economic Development Corporate Partnerships and Strategic Initiatives Clemson University International Center for Automotive Research (CU-ICAR) Clemson University Restoration Institute (CURI) Clemson University Biomedical Engineering Innovation Campus (CUBEInC) Center for Human Genetics Innovation Campus and Technology Park About Clemson Forward Arrow Back Arrow Back About Clemson Home Clemson News Clemson Athletics For Tigers Applying to Clemson Working at Clemson Traditions Military Heritage Things To Do in Clemson Visit Clemson Campus Resources Employment Opportunities Home and Garden Information Center Brand Guidelines CCIT Academic Calendar Training ClemsonForward Campus Leadership Board of Trustees President Academic Affairs and Provost Inclusion and Equity Student Affairs Faculty Senate Staff Senate Search Resources for Current Students Parents Faculty & Staff Alumni Research About CAFLS Research Forward Arrow About CAFLS Research Explore CAFLS Research & Scholarship Endowed Chairs and Titled Professors Godley-Snell Award Strategic Plan Back Arrow Back Research and Education Centers Forward Arrow Research and Education Centers Overview of All RECs Baruch Institute of Coastal Ecology And Forest Science Coastal Research & Education Center Edisto Research & Education Center Pee Dee Research & Education Center Piedmont Research & Education Center Sandhill Research & Education Center Back Arrow Back Centers & Institutes Forward Arrow Centers & Institutes Back Arrow Back Graduate Programs For Researchers (log-in req) Forward Arrow For Researchers (log-in req) Technical Contribution Information for Researchers Grant Support Services CAFLS Research Development Forward Arrow CAFLS Research Development Data Management Services How to Locate Funding using SPIN USDA Funding Request for Assistance CAFLS/PSA Submission Policy Back Arrow Back Federal Projects Back Arrow Back Apply Giving News Sikes Hall Icon Main Menu Forward Arrow Icon Back Arrow Icon Back Clemson University Academics Academics Home Employment Opportunities Apply for Admission Colleges College of Agriculture, Forestry and Life Sciences College of Architecture, Arts and Humanities College of Behavioral, Social and Health Sciences Wilbur O. and Ann Powers College of Business College of Education College of Engineering, Computing and Applied Sciences College of Science Graduate School Academic Resources Academic Calendar Registrar Division of Undergraduate Studies Center for Career and Professional Development Academic Success Center GRAD 360° Libraries Outside the Classroom PEER/WISE Call Me MISTER® Creative Inquiry and Undergraduate Research Cooperative Education University Professional Internship and Co-op Program (UPIC) Study Abroad Admissions Admissions Home Schedule a Tour Apply for Admission Applying to Clemson First-Year Undergraduate Transfer Undergraduate International Undergraduate Graduate Students Academic Opportunities Majors Graduate Programs Online Graduate Programs Scholar Programs Paths to Graduate School Honors College Experiential Learning Financial Aid Tuition and Fee Calculator Undergraduate Financial Aid Graduate Fellowships and Awards Residency Requirements Campus Life Campus Life Home Club Sports Brooks Center for the Performing Arts Join Your Clemson Family Finding Your Community Living-Learning Communities Student Veterans Multicultural Programs FIRST Army ROTC Air Force ROTC Services On Campus Housing & Dining Campus Recreation Parking and Transportation Student Health Services TigerOne Card Services Clemson Athletics Get Involved Clubs and Organizations Fraternity and Sorority Life Orientation Ambassadors Tiger Media Graduate Student Government Undergraduate Student Government Research Research Home Clemson University Research Foundation (CURF) Division of Research Research Opportunities Student Research at Clemson Creative Inquiry Research Facilities Postdoctoral Affairs Serving South Carolina Through Research School of Health Research Public Service and Agriculture Clemson Experimental Forest Clemson Extension Clemson Research and Education Centers Public Service and Agriculture Research Farm Services Innovation and Economic Development Corporate Partnerships and Strategic Initiatives Clemson University International Center for Automotive Research (CU-ICAR) Clemson University Restoration Institute (CURI) Clemson University Biomedical Engineering Innovation Campus (CUBEInC) Center for Human Genetics Innovation Campus and Technology Park About Clemson About Clemson Home Clemson News Clemson Athletics For Tigers Applying to Clemson Working at Clemson Traditions Military Heritage Things To Do in Clemson Visit Clemson Campus Resources Employment Opportunities Home and Garden Information Center Brand Guidelines CCIT Academic Calendar Training ClemsonForward Campus Leadership Board of Trustees President Academic Affairs and Provost Inclusion and Equity Student Affairs Faculty Senate Staff Senate Search close Research About CAFLS Research show submenu for About CAFLS Research Explore CAFLS Research & Scholarship Endowed Chairs and Titled Professors Godley-Snell Award Strategic Plan Research and Education Centers show submenu for Research and Education Centers Overview of All RECs Baruch Institute of Coastal Ecology And Forest Science Coastal Research & Education Center Edisto Research & Education Center Pee Dee Research & Education Center Piedmont Research & Education Center Sandhill Research & Education Center Centers & Institutes Graduate Programs For Researchers (log-in req) show submenu for For Researchers (log-in req) Technical Contribution Information for Researchers Grant Support Services CAFLS Research Development show submenu for CAFLS Research Development Data Management Services How to Locate Funding using SPIN USDA Funding Request for Assistance CAFLS/PSA Submission Policy Federal Projects Clemson Home CAFLS Research About CAFLS Research Current: Strategic Plan CAFLS Research Strategic Plan 2020-2026 Building a national reputation for excellence in research and scholarship The College of Agriculture, Forestry and Life Sciences provides integrated education, research, Extension, and public service in the grand challenges of global food supply and safety, human and animal nutrition, agricultural systems efficiency, environmental conservation, sustainable packaging and renewable resources. Through rigorous experiential and classroom learning opportunities, CAFLS readies its graduates to assume leadership roles in industries essential to ensuring the future security and prosperity of South Carolinians and our growing global population. The strategic plan of the College of Agriculture, Forestry and Life Sciences offers priorities and core tactics for strengthening research capacity across the decade of 2016 to 2026. Two goals are addressed within this document: GOAL 3: Strengthen CAFLS graduate student programs. Objectives: Strengthen courses and programs that support graduate student success. Enhance national recognition of graduate student programs through proactive marketing. Develop and implement graduate student recruitment and incentive plans to attract high-quality applicants and increase enrollment. Increase the number of professional development opportunities for graduate students. GOAL 4: Strengthen research quality and impact. Objectives: Develop an action plan to build a national reputation for excellence in research and scholarship. Increase research and scholarship productivity. Improve, upgrade, and expand research infrastructure and support. Charge to Committee The committee was charged with creating implementation plans and recommendations for CAFLS Research goals and objectives and aligning these plans to achieve ClemsonForward Research Goals. Three subcommittees worked on specific CAFLS goals and objectives, planned their own meetings, and submitted reports at full committee meetings. Each subcommittee developed implementation plans for achieving the CAFLS research goals and specific objectives. Implementation plans were expected to: outline major actions/tasks needed to achieve the objectives; identify any risks or concerns that will need to be addressed; clarify management oversight; determine resources needed and proposed funding strategies; and establish specific metrics for success. The plan also was expected to include the status of actions already taken to achieve goals and objectives. The following groups or individuals were used to advise the committee: Graduate Program Coordinators Academic Department Chairs Endowed Chairs REC Directors Research Development Strategist (Mira Mihajlovich) HR Strategist (Tan Davis) Subcommittees Subcommittee on Graduate Programs Argüelles-Ramos, C. Jachowski, C. Privette Propose implementation strategies and actions needed to strengthen graduate programs. CAFLS GOAL 3: Strengthen CAFLS graduate student programs and enrollment. Objective 1. Increase doctoral student enrollment. Objective 2. Strengthen course offerings for graduate student programs. Objective 3. Increase professional development opportunities for graduate students. Subcommittee on Research Relevance & Capacity Andrae, K. Coleman, A. Chow, K. Kirk Assess current research infrastructure and capacity, and determine future needs. Identify actions needed to ensure relevance to S.C stakeholders. CAFLS GOAL 4: Strengthen research quality and impact. Objective 1. Assess research infrastructure and capacity. Objective 2. Ensure relevance to S.C. stakeholders. Subcommittee on Research Productivity Boyles, K. Gasic, A. Hurley, B. Ward Identify actions to increase faculty research and productivity and to promote faculty professional development. CAFLS GOAL 4: Strengthen research quality and impact. Objective 3. Promote faculty professional development for research excellence. Objective 4. Increase research and scholarship productivity. Goals and Objectives Strengthen CAFLS Graduate Student Programs and Enrollment Objective 1. Increase doctoral student enrollment. MARKETING: Enhance national recognition of graduate student programs through proactive marketing. TUITION WAIVERS: Adopt a policy that requires all graduate assistantships in the college to be full-time. PARTNERSHIPS: Partner with industry and corporations to sponsor assistantships. COMPETITIVE GRANTS: Encourage and facilitate inclusion of graduate assistantships in grant submissions by faculty. Objective 2. Strengthen course and program offerings for graduate student programs. FOUNDATION: Develop a core of courses that reflect foundational knowledge, skills (e.g., teaching, grant-writing, publishing, etc.), and address emerging issues in the disciplines. INTERDISCIPLINARY: Develop certificate programs and online delivery of interdisciplinary MS programs. EXPOSURE: Encourage faculty to develop interdisciplinary grant proposals in order to facilitate exposure of GRAs to interdisciplinary research. OFF-CAMPUS FACULTY: Utilizing Research and Education Centers (REC) expertise to educate graduate students through enhanced course offerings. TEACHING: Improve awareness and increase co-teaching of currently offered but underutilized, graduate courses that are broadly applicable. Objective 3. Increase professional development opportunities for graduate students. SCIENTIFIC MEETINGS: Increase the number of students who attend and present at national and international scientific meetings. INTERDISCIPLINARY: Encourage on-campus and off-campus faculty to develop interdisciplinary, University-wide workshops and training programs for graduate students. Objective 4. Improve professional development opportunities for graduate students. PROFESSIONAL DEVELOPMENT: Increase faculty and graduate student utilization of professional development offered by the Graduate School via GRAD 360. SEMINAR: Encourage graduate students to coordinate a Departmental or College-level seminar series. REC FACILITIES: Initiate an annual research symposium for CAFLS graduate students to be hosted at REC facilities on a rotating basis. TEACHING: Develop a process for graduate students to contribute to teaching. Objective 5. Assess research infrastructure and capacity. DATABASE: Create and maintain an internal, searchable research infrastructure and capacity database to promote faculty collaboration. CLEAR POLICIES: Develop and communicate clear policies for resource requests regarding the organization and oversight of land and facilities available to CAFLS faculty. CORE EQUIPMENT: Assess the need, cost and impact of purchasing core equipment and instrumentation to support basic research. INFRASTRUCTURE: Leverage resource databases and needed equipment, space, and facilities for planned state funding research infrastructure requests. TECHNICAL SUPPORT: Determine factors that impact recruitment and retention of technical support. Strengthen Research Quality and Impact Objective 6. Ensure relevance to S.C. stakeholders. ADVISORY COUNCILS: Include individuals with research interests on Advisory Councils for every academic department and REC. COMMODITY BOARDS: Strengthen relationships with commodity boards and associations representing agriculture and forestry sectors in South Carolina. EXTERNAL STAKEHOLDERS: Develop a public, web-based inventory of CAFLS faculty research topics. POLICYMAKERS: Develop a research communications plan targeted to external stakeholders and policymakers in South Carolina. EXTENSION: Improve dissemination of research information through Clemson Extension channels. CAPACITY GRANTS: Communicate the relevance of Hatch and McIntire-Stennis Project funds in addressing South Carolina agriculture and forestry-related problems. Objective 7. Increase research scholarship and productivity. COMMUNICATION: Improve awareness and communication of university, college and departmental resources to enhance and support faculty research & scholarship. RESEARCH THEMES: Identify research program themes that are aligned with state needs. Objective 8. Promote faculty professional development for research excellence. RESEARCH PROFILES: Create relevant and engaging research profiles for every CAFLS research faculty member. FACULTY MENTORING: Develop faculty mentoring program focused on research excellence. ENTREPRENEURSHIP: Define CAFLS position on value of entrepreneurship in TPR process. Committee Members The names listed reflect those holding this position at the time of this document's authorship; individuals may no longer be in this role. Primary Members Mireille Argüelles-Ramos Charles Privette Andrew Hurley Cathy Jachowski Ksenija Gasic Kendall Kirk Richard Boyles Alex Chow John Andrae Brian Ward Kathy Coleman Department Chair Advisors Charles Privette Kristine Vernon Greg Yarrow Carlyle Brewster Jeff Rhodehamel Graduate Program Coordinator Advisors Guido Schnabel Mike Caterino Paul Dawson Dale Layfield David Willis Kyle Barrett Jeri Jones REC Director Advisors John Andrae Matt Smith Skip Van Bloem Kathy Coleman Chris Ray Endowed Chair Advisors Rob Baldwin Michael Caterino Kay Cooksey Susan Duckett Stephen Kresovich Patrick McMillan Drew Lanham Coordination Paula Agudelo Kathy Woodard Staff Advisors Tan Davis Mira Mihajlovich Kayla Steele Payne CAFLS Research Copyright © Clemson University CAFLS Research | 104 Barre Hall, Clemson, SC 29634-0303 (864) 656-0681 | Page Update Request intro-arrow Engage With Us Through Facebook Instagram Twitter LinkedIn YouTube Clemson University Facebook Instagram Twitter Linkedin Youtube Tiktok Policy/Terms of Use Web Accessibility Ethics/Safety Hotline Privacy Policy Copyright © 2022 Clemson University • Clemson, South Carolina 29634 Clemson University Facebook Instagram Twitter Linkedin Youtube Tiktok Resources A-Z Index Campus Map CU Safety Directory Webcams Apply to Clemson