Engineering Technology - University of Houston Skip to main content Restrict my search to College of Technology Submit Close Login to AccessUH Give to Engineering Technology Search College of Technology Programs & Degrees Undergraduate Degrees Graduate Degrees Accelerated Program Minors Vision and Mission Petroleum Technology Initiative People Faculty Staff Boards of Advisors Advising UH Home College of Technology Departments Engineering Technology The degree is Engineering Technology, the career is engineering. Based on the trademarked CDIO educational framework, the Engineering profession covers a range of activities from Conceive and Design to Implement and Operate. Technology is a vital component of the Implement and Operate phase of the CDIO model. Devoted to the application of engineering principles and the implementation of technological advances that benefit humanity, engineering technology professionals apply their knowledge of mathematical and natural sciences gained through higher education with practical experience. Our program prepares graduates for the practice of engineering in product improvement, manufacturing, and engineering operational functions. Progressive degree plans are reinforced with experiential learning as the educational backbone. Students focus on analyzing, applying, implementing and improving existing and emerging technologies through challenging project-based labs, synchronized with the lectures and designed to stimulate innovation. In the News Alumni Spotlight: Dan Allford on Manufacturing Success Dan Allford has continued innovating since he started his company, ARC Specialties, nearly 40 years ago from his garage. Over the course of ... Research Experience for High School Teachers in Design and Manufacturing Twelve local high school teachers are ready to inspire the next generation of students after completing an extensive six-week Research Exper... Visiting Fulbright Student Joins College of Technology As part of the Fulbright Joint-Supervision Program, Safae Bourhnane, a Ph.D. student from Morocco, is visiting the lab of Dr. Driss Benhaddo... Dr. Lei Fan Selected for NSF Grant Award for Power System Flexibility Research Dr. Lei Fan's research aims to develop a comprehensive and integrated framework for power system flexibility including metric assessment, ma... Engineering Technology Researchers Win Award to Develop Renewable Energy Assessment Tool Three Engineering Technology faculty members, Driss Benhaddou (Lead), Lei Fan, and Jian Shi, collaborated with HARC-Houston Advanced Researc... Biotech Students Study Vaccine Development As researchers around the world move to create a suitable vaccine to combat Covid-19, those pursuing studies in biotechnology find their bur... Biotechnology Professor Recognized for Leadership in Promoting STEM Education Rupa Iyer Named Outstanding Woman in Science Rupa Iyer, founding director of biotechnology programs and former associate dean of research and graduate studies at the University of Houst... Gulf Research Program Awards $1.44 Million Grant for Development of Tools to Improve Offshore Industry Safety Researchers from the University of Houston, Lamar University, and the American Bureau of Shipping, have been awarded $1,440,330 through the ... From helping you make decisions about your major to making preparations for graduation, we are here to assist. With our advanced facilities, award winning faculty and industry connections, the Engineering Technology department offers students unique opportunities to achieve their highest potential and graduate with confidence in their skills. Undergraduate Degrees Bachelor of Science in Biotechnology The Biotechnology program prepares students with a strong foundation in skills that transform our future world. With practical, hands-on training, innovative research and teaching, the program attracts students who are eager to discover ways to contribute to the health of society and the environment. The Bioprocessing and Bioinformatics tracks offer the flexibility to adapt the degree based on interests, educational background and career goals. Bachelor of Science in Computer Engineering Technology The Computer Engineering Technology (CET) Bachelor of Science (BS) degree is a research-oriented, project-based, practical program where students learn about analog and digital electronics, microprocessor architecture and programming, hardware and software design, networked embedded systems, operating systems, communication, and computer networks. The CET program incorporates applications such as cyber-physical systems, smart and clean energy, healthcare and bio-medical systems, smart sensors, and embedded controls. Bachelor of Science in Electrical Power Engineering Technology Earning a degree in Electrical Power Engineering Technology provides you with the right combination of skills for designing, analyzing, and improving computer-based power generation, delivery, and end-user systems. In addition to studying electrical motors and generators, computer-based controls, and alternative energy sources, you will learn about electrical power generating transmission and distribution systems, electrical power protection systems, and power electronics that increase the reliability and efficiency of electrical energy systems. Bachelor of Science in Mechanical Engineering Technology The Mechanical Engineering Technology program offers advanced teaching and research laboratories with courses in computer aided engineering, biomedical systems, advanced material design, manufacturing, systems integration, oil and gas applications, energy and efficient project management. Students gain highly developed expertise in design, analysis and manufacturing mechanical systems. Graduate Degrees Master of Science in Biotechnology The Master of Science in Engineering Technology - Biotechnology Track - emphasizes bioprocessing, protein engineering, computational biology, and federal regulations. Designed to help prepare individuals to conduct or supervise research and development in biotechnology or medical fields, this degree is a highly inter- and multi-disciplinary field that defines biotechnology education and research for the future. Master of Science in Computational Health Informatics The Master of Science in Engineering Technology with an emphasis in Computational Health Informatics is a highly interdisciplinary degree that aims at preparing the next generation of engineers for a career in the technological transformation of healthcare. The program places specific emphasis on mobile computing, medical imaging and instrumentation, wearable sensors, multimodal data mining, and information security as applied to health care delivery. Master of Science in Mechanical Engineering Technology The Master of Science in Mechanical Engineering Technology graduate program builds upon our recognized Bachelor of Science degree, providing students with highly developed expertise in design and analysis of mechanical systems. The M.S. program offers courses and leading-edge research experience in several applied areas including instrumentation and measurement, biomedical systems, advanced materials design, manufacturing, systems integration, oil and gas applications, and energy. Master of Science in Network Communications The Master of Science in Engineering Technology with an emphasis in Network Communications is advances your knowledge of computer networking. Supported by industry partnerships, the program encourages students to gain real-world practical experience. Graduates of our program land management and supervisory roles in virtually every industry where networking technologies are essential. The comprehensive program offers courses ranging from networking fundamentals, security, network management to protocols, and algorithms. It prepares you for a variety of application areas such as optical networking, sensor networks, wireless networks and network programming. In addition to an enriching academic experience, there are opportunities for competitive research and instruction funding. Minors ET Minors Students wishing to obtain a minor may choose any approved minor program within the College of Technology. Students who have declared a major in Mechanical Engineering Technology may not declare a minor in Manufacturing Systems. Minimum requirements range from 15 to 18 semester hours of course work, of which 9 must be advanced; 9 semester hours in residence at UH of which 6 must be advanced; and a 2.0 minimum grade point average in all courses in the minor at the University of Houston. For official requirements, see the University of Houston Catalog. Bioinformatics in Biotechnology and Biomedical Sciences Bioprocessing in Biomedical and Biopharmaceutical Sciences Computer Engineering Technology Electrical Power Engineering Technology Manufacturing Systems See an Advisor Students are encouraged to visit with their advisor regularly to update their degree plan and to stay informed about the resources offered by the College of Technology. FAQs Have questions? Check out our FAQs for assistance. Advising Forms Forms necessary for your academic planning including change of major, and general petition form. Contact Us College of Technology Building 4730 Calhoun Road #304 Houston, TX 77204-4020 Phone: 713-743-4040 Fax: 713-743-4032 Student Organizations Institute for Electrical and Electronics Engineers IEEE, the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, is the world’s largest professional association dedicated to advancing technological innovation and excellence for the benefit of humanity. Institution of Mechanical Engineers Objectives of the Institution of Mechanical Engineers are to supplement the existing curriculum with a series of hands-on workshops, as well as to provide a vehicle for connecting students with potential mentors within the industry. International Society of Automation Enable members, including world-wide subject matter experts, automation suppliers, and end-users, to work together to develop and deliver the highest quality, unbiased automation information, including standards, training, publications, and certifications. Marine Technology Society The University of Houston Marine Technology Society Student Chapter is working to lead the way in solving global issues by enhancing the dissemination of marine technology information with related educational programs. Society for Biological Engineering The Society for Biological Engineering devotes their efforts to integrating our members with industries that can benefit from the knowledge and skill-set of an engineer, technologist, and biologist combined. Society of Manufacturing Engineers The Society of Manufacturing Engineers is a great way to connect with the industry through technical lectures, plant tours, and conferences. American Society of Mechanical Engineers. Here at the University of Houston, ASME- College of Technology strives to support the academic & professional development of students pursuing engineering technology degrees. Join us on this journey as we set the standard! 4230 MLK Blvd. #300 Houston, TX 77204-4021 Phone: 713-743-4100 Phone(Sugar Land): 832-842-3054 A–Z Index Academic Calendar Campus Carry Policy Campus Maps Careers Opportunities Directory Emergency Information Get Help Human Resources Library Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Office of the President Parking Social Media Title IX — Sexual Misconduct Texas Veterans Portal Tuition & Fees UH System ©2022 University of Houston. All rights reserved. Report a problem with this page Texas.gov Texas Homeland Security TRAIL Fraud Reporting Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Linking Notice Privacy Notice Open Records/Public Information Act Institutional Résumé Required Reports Electronic & Information Resources Accessibility Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness University Policies