Skip to main content Go to site search Go to primary navigation Go to resources navigation Penn COVID-19 Response » Penn Home Toggle Site Navigation Toggle Site Search Academics More Academics Undergraduate Graduate Schools Global Initiatives Interdisciplinary Online Learning Off-campus Learning Libraries Admissions & Aid Athletics Research & Innovation More Research & Innovation Research Enterprise Research News Life at Penn More Life at Penn Arts & Culture Community Involvement More Community Involvement Penn & Philadelphia Diversity Groups & Organizations Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Safety & Security More Safety & Security Emergency Contacts Emergency Preparedness Spirituality & Religion About More About Introduction to Penn History Facts News, Media, & Communication Services Sustainability FAQ Penn’s Interim President, Wendell Pritchett Trustees & Administration Policies Toggle Site Search Resources Current Students Faculty & Staff Parents Alumni Visitors A-Z Directory Webmail Services Give to Penn Search Search Close Breadcrumb Home / About / Disclaimer Disclaimer The University of Pennsylvania makes world wide web resources available to all segments of the University community and may provide listings of and/or links to web pages maintained by University faculty, students, staff, student organizations, non-University organizations and others. The University web space contains web pages that have been created by the University and its schools, departments or other administrative offices, as well as web pages generated by groups or individuals. University departments, schools, and administrative offices strive to ensure the accuracy of their web pages. If you have a question or concern regarding any of the University web pages, please contact that department directly. Personal, individual or group web pages are not endorsed, edited or approved by the University. The content and the items accessible from the pages are the sole responsibility of their creators and do not represent positions, policies or opinions of the University of Pennsylvania. If you have any questions about a particular page or document, please contact the site's author directly. Some University of Pennsylvania web pages may contain links to web pages created by sources outside the University. The existence of these links does not suggest that the University approves or endorses the content of these web pages. University Communications is responsible for the maintenance and design of the University of Pennsylvania home page and the central web pages but is not responsible for the timeliness or completeness of the information provided by other departments, individuals or schools. If you have any questions, comments or concerns about the University of Pennsylvania web pages, please send an email to webmaster@upenn.edu. To learn more about the University of Pennsylvania web policies, click on the links below: Policy on Acceptable Use of Electronic Resources Guidelines on Open Expression Philadelphia, PA 19104 Telephone: (215) 898-5000 Contact Us Maps Parking Navigate Alumni Athletics Diversity Health Care Libraries Online Learning Penn Global Penn's Heritage As America’s first university, Penn has a history that dates back to 1740 and shares many ties with the colonial city of Philadelphia and the birth of our nation. Our History Disclaimer Emergency Services Nondiscrimination Privacy Policy Report Accessibility Issues and Get Help Report Copyright Infringement Back To Top