Skip to main content Skip to main content DIVISION of ENROLLMENT SERVICES Skip to main content &nbsp;<b>Student Quicklinks</b> Student Quicklinks &nbsp;<b>Faculty/Staff Quicklinks</b> Faculty/Staff Quicklinks Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. Navigate Search Skip to main content Financial Aid The Financial Aid Process The Financial Aid Process Texas Residency Rules for State Aid Dates & Deadlines Texas Application for State Financial Aid (TASFA) Financial Aid Status Disbursement of Aid Appeals Due to Special Circumstances Helpful hints for completing the FAFSA and CSS/Financial Aid PROFILE Verification Process Are you Dependent or Independent? How to Accept/Decline Financial Aid Refunds Costs Types of Aid Types of Aid Scholarships Loans Grants Student Employment Graduate Financial Aid Federal Government Funded Financial Aid Programs SMU Funded Financial Aid Programs Summer and May Inter-Term Financial Aid Options for Undergraduate Students Veteran Benefits How Enrollment Level Affects Aid Satisfactory Academic Progress (SAP) Process Forms Library Financial Aid Glossary Frequently Asked Questions Contact Us ☰ Financial Aid The Financial Aid Process Appeals Due to Special Circumstances Appeals Due to Special Circumstances SMU recognizes that students and families occasionally face unexpected circumstances that may significantly impact the overall cost of attendance or their ability to cover those costs. The Office of Financial Aid is authorized by the U.S. Dept of Education to consider special circumstances through an appeals process, reviewed on a case by case basis, with limits to what and how special circumstances may be considered. Appeal Requirements Students who wish to submit an appeal must first verify the accuracy of current FAFSA data as well as resolve any conflicting information. The “verification process” compares the information reported on the FAFSA with official documentation submitted by the student and family such as an official, tax transcript Students and their parents must request an official copy of the tax transcript from the IRS which must be submitted to SMU for verification. In addition to tax documents, students and/or their families may be required to submit additional documents to clarify or resolve any conflicting information. Schools may not consider any special circumstances until after verification is complete. Each appeal must include a written statement explaining the specific circumstances as well as a plan to manage the circumstances in the future. The following list provides information on the type of circumstances that may be considered along with the documentation requirements for each. Additionally, the appeal must include information on current income such as: Estimated gross wages earned from work Unemployment benefits Child Support received Disability benefits Other untaxed income Other taxable income such as interest income, dividends, or alimony Each appeal must be submitted to the Office of Financial Aid as a single complete packet. Items submitted for review without documentation will not be considered. Additional documentation may be requested by the Office of Financial Aid at any time during the review process If you are unsure if an appeal will be beneficial for you or if you have more questions on the appeal process, the Division of Enrollment Services/Office of Financial Aid has recorded the SMU Undergraduate Financial Aid Appeal Presentation for you to view at your convenience. If you are ready to begin the process, please contact your Financial Aid Advisor for the next steps. Student Services Quicklinks× Faculty/Staff Quicklinks× Contact Us Maps and Directions Legal Disclosures © Southern Methodist University, PO Box 750100, Dallas, TX 75275 twitter facebook instagram linkedin youtube share