Skip to main content Skip to main content Prospective Students Current Students Alumni More Faculty/Staff News Media Parents Skip to main content Apply Apply Give Give Follow Us Follow Us Twitter Follow Us Facebook Follow Us Instagram Follow Us LinkedIn Follow Us YouTube Follow Us Social Stream Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. Navigate Search Skip to main content News Contact Us Experts Latest News Latest News 2021 2020 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 Broadcast Studio Research ☰ Featured News SMU News Featured News New Program at SMU Assists Military Service Members and Veterans with Transition to the Classroom, Workforce New Program at SMU Assists Military Service Members and Veterans with Transition to the Classroom, Workforce Eight-week program launching in April offers SMU graduate, certificate courses April 11, 2022 DALLAS (SMU) – Military service members, veterans, and others can now enroll in a new program at SMU that aims to help them succeed in the classroom and workforce. The Catalyst Program at SMU, which welcomes its first cohort of students later this month, introduces participants to academic courses at SMU and related career-building experience at several area partner companies and organizations. The program is recognized by the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs and the Texas Veterans Commission and eligible participants may use their Veterans Educational Benefits to fund the full cost of the program. Students will engage in a career transition-focused curriculum, receive brand management training, earn a professional certificate in project management, and complete six graduate-level credit hours. “SMU strives to be among our nation’s best when it comes to serving the military community,” Robert Hurst, assistant director of veterans affairs at SMU, said. “The Catalyst Program at SMU is another example of SMU’s concerted efforts to support veterans, military service members, and their families as they consider what may come next in their professional lives.” According to Hurst, the program will be the first of its kind in Texas and will help guide participants through the transition process from service to the classroom or the workforce. Veterans enrolled in the first cohort of the program will attend the Executive Leadership course offered through the SMU Cox School of Business MBA program, and complete coursework offered through the interdisciplinary Master’s of Science in Data Science program administered by the SMU Global and Online division. The two certificate programs, Project Management and Brand Management, are offered through the SMU Continuing and Professional Education (CAPE) division. Students will have opportunities to work with top companies with real-life operational challenges to solve while collaborating with other students to understand the issues and propose solutions. By completing the course work and professional interactions, program organizers believe participants will gain exposure to different areas of employment and be able to demonstrate individual strengths and knowledge to hiring managers, which has the potential to generate career opportunities. The Catalyst at SMU is also open to non-veterans who wish to benefit from the curriculum and professional career building opportunities. “While the program is geared toward our service members and their family members, it is not an exclusive program,” Hurst said. “We encourage everyone, regardless of background, to attend. With the incorporation of case studies from our workforce partners, graduate-level course work and professional certificates, there is something for everyone within the program,” he said. SMU recently earned the special designation of a Military FriendlyⓇ School for its outreach and engagement efforts. The designation recognizes an organization’s “commitment, effort and success in creating sustainable and meaningful benefit for the military community.” “We are truly grateful for this recognition and excited to build upon the hard work and dedication shown across the SMU community and its faculty and staff,” Hurst added. More information about the Catalyst at SMU Program, including course and program descriptions, tuition and fees, and financial aid, is available online. ### SMU is the nationally ranked global research university in the dynamic city of Dallas. SMU’s alumni, faculty and more than 12,000 students in eight degree-granting schools demonstrate an entrepreneurial spirit as they lead change in their professions, communities and the world. SMU News Broadcast Studio Contact Us SMU Research Blog Experts News Archives Featured News Research Apply Visit School Cox School of Business Dedman College of Humanities and Sciences Dedman School of Law Lyle School of Engineering Meadows School of the Arts Moody School of Graduate and Advanced Studies Perkins School of Theology Simmons School of Education and Human Development Explore SMU Magazine Academic Calendar Events Calendar Guildhall Continuing and Professional Education Athletics Employment at SMU Campus Reporting a Bias Incident Report Sexual Misconduct Emergency Preparedness Student Life George W. Bush Presidential Center SMU Libraries Meadows Museum Tate Lecture Series Contact Us Maps and Directions Legal Disclosures © Southern Methodist University, PO Box 750100, Dallas, TX 75275 twitter facebook instagram linkedin youtube share