Skip to main content Temple University Explore Temple’s Schools and Colleges Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Support Temple Temple University Search Site Search Full Menu Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees President History & Traditions Temple Health News & Media Offices Public Information Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Development Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Libraries Health Outcomes and Measurement Science Certificate (Graduate) You are here Home Academics Degrees and Programs Health Outcomes and Measurement Science Certificate (Graduate) Apply Request More Info Health Outcomes and Measurement Science Certificate (Graduate) Accreditation Admissions Information Required Courses Graduate Certificate in Health Outcomes and Measurement Science The Graduate Certificate in Health Outcomes and Measurement Science in Temple’s College of Public Health focuses on the identification, development and use of person-centered outcomes in clinical and research applications. This certificate is designed for graduate students and current professionals in clinical or research disciplines who want to integrate evidence-based health outcomes into their work. It will train you to choose appropriate outcomes, develop measures and apply them in order to improve your practice or advance your research. Within the current health ecosystem, clinicians and researchers face a growing need to incorporate standardized measures of health using patient-centered and patient-reported outcomes—the self-reported status of a person’s physical and mental health and functioning. Measurements of these outcomes are becoming widespread in clinical practice in order to improve care and assess performance of healthcare systems. As a student in this program, you will gain an understanding of clinical outcomes qualification processes and standards; how to apply and interpret health outcomes in clinical practice and research; qualitative methods for outcomes measure development; survey methodology and measurement; the use of statistical approaches to develop high-quality outcomes and tests; and traditional and modern measurement approaches to health outcomes, with a focus on person-centered and person-reported outcomes. The admissions process you'll follow depends on if you are applying as a matriculated or non-matriculated graduate student. Please be sure to carefully review the admissions information for this certificate program. What sets apart our Graduate Certificate in Health Outcomes and Measurement Science? A unique program for healthcare students and professionals: The certificate gives you the knowledge and skills to improve your clinical or research versatility and distinguish yourself in an increasingly competitive market. It is the only certificate of its kind in the Philadelphia region. Designed for professionals: The certificate is offered entirely online and can be taken for academic credit in several clinical professional programs. Renowned, interdisciplinary faculty: Courses are taught by nationally recognized faculty from a range of disciplines within the College of Public Health, including biostatistics, epidemiology, health services administration and policy, occupational therapy, physical therapy, and social work. Program Curriculum The 12-credit, four-course certificate program is available either as an independent program or as a supplement to your primary degree at Temple University. You can complete the certificate entirely online on a part-time basis and finish it in two years or less. See a full list of program courses. Our Advisors The College of Public Health offers extensive, personalized advising to students in each department. If you have questions about the certificate program, contact one of the program directors. Carole A. Tucker Certificate program co-director Email: carole.tucker@temple.edu Katherine B. Bevans Certificate program co-director Email: katherine.bevans@temple.edu Related Graduate Degrees Applied Biostatistics MPH Epidemiology MS Epidemiology MPH Epidemiology PhD Nursing DNP Occupational Therapy MOT Occupational Therapy OTD Physical Therapy DPT Recreational Therapy MS Social and Behavioral Sciences MPH Social and Behavioral Sciences PhD Tuition & Fees In keeping with Temple’s commitment to access and affordability, this Graduate Certificate offers a competitive level of tuition with multiple opportunities for financial support. Tuition rates are set annually by the university and are affected by multiple factors, including program degree level (undergraduate or graduate), course load (full- or part-time), in-state or out-of-state residency, and more. These tuition costs apply to the 2021–2022 academic year. Pennsylvania resident: $1,020.00 per credit Out-of-state: $1,398.00 per credit Learn more about our tuition and fees. HP-HOMS-GRAD Additional Program Information Visit College Site View Program Details Go back to AcademicsMore in Health Outcomes and Measurement Science Certificate (Graduate) Accreditation Admissions Information Required Courses Apply Request More Info Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Calendar Policies Social Media TUportal TUmail Accessibility Careers at Temple Safety & Emergency Information Ethics & Compliance Privacy Statement Professional Licensure Disclosures Follow Temple University Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community. Apply Request More Info