Skip to main content Temple University Explore Temple’s Schools and Colleges Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Support Temple Temple University Search Site Search Full Menu Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees President History & Traditions Temple Health News & Media Offices Public Information Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Development Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Libraries Graduate and Professional You are here Home Admissions Graduate & Professional Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Preferred Name Use Pronoun Use and Gender Identity Temple Thought Leaders Housing & Dining Health & Wellness COVID-19: Keeping Our Community Safe & Healthy COVID-19 FAQ Testing & Tracing Vaccines Academics, Tuition & Aid Temple HEERF III Grant Student Housing & On-campus Life Work-life for Faculty & Staff Faculty Teaching Information Return Scenario Planning Temple Community Health Advisory Group University Communication Vaccination Rates and Active COVID-19 Cases at Temple University International Campuses and Programs City Life Philadelphia Visiting Temple Accommodations Dining Options Religious Services Information FAQs Safety Main Campus and Philadelphia Safety FAQ Contact Temple RAVE Temple Guardian App Community Programs and Research University News Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Campus Life Arts and Culture Clubs and Organizations Housing, Dining and OWLcards Parking and Transportation Safety Student Banking Student Centers Wireless, Computers and Phone Academics Advising and Academic Support Courses and Calendars International Students Libraries Registration, Grades and Books Schools and Colleges Health and Wellness Athletics and Fitness Health and Counseling Tuition and Financial Aid Financial Aid Tuition and Billing Careers and Internships Career Center Internships Student Jobs Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees Presidential Search President University Leadership Board of Trustees Updates Past Presidents 2019 State of the University History & Traditions Russell Conwell Temple Traditions Acres of Diamonds Honorary Degrees Past Honorary Degree Recipients Temple Health News & Media Media Mentions Temple University Wallpapers Temple's Impact Career in Charitable Change Fueled by Temple Experiences Advancing Breast Cancer Research Leaders in HIV Research 21st-century Learning Temple Firsts Paving the Way Medical & Community Support Student Support Contact members of Strategic Marketing and Communications Offices Public Information Facts About Temple Faculty & Staff Resources Working at Temple Calendars and Time Off Holiday Schedule Careers at Temple Human Resources Performance and Training Business Services Catering Exception Policy Double Tree Catering/ Conferences Contact Frequently Asked Questions Trademark Licensing Policy Corporate Responsibility Logo and Graphics Guide Guidelines for Trademark Use The Student, Faculty and Staff Guide to Ordering Licensed Temple Products Becoming Licensed Trademark and Licensing FAQ Where to Buy Temple Gear University-approved Hotels Club Quarters DoubleTree Hotel Hilton Garden Inn Hilton Philadelphia at Penn's Landing Loews Hotel Sonesta Philadelphia The Conwell Inn Campus Services Computers, Email and Phones Conferences and Meetings Health Sciences Center Form Main Campus Meeting Space Howard Gittis Student Center Form Documents & Insurance Facilities and Space ID Cards Parking and Transportation Faculty Resources Calendars, Schedules and Grades Courses and Curricula Instructional Resources Faculty Senate and News Research and Grants Finance and Travel Accounting and Budget Employee Banking and Finance Tuition Remission Travel and Expenses Wellness and Safety Fitness and Health Safety and Alerts Campus Development Frequently Asked Questions Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Data Integrity and Data Verification Unit In-scope Materials Quick Reference Guide Rankings Data Overview and Updates Additional Resources Frequently Asked Questions FAQ: Fox School of Business MBA rankings Enterprise Risk Management Key Terms and Definitions Helpline Frequently Asked Questions Resources Compliance With the Four Pillars Who We Are Libraries Charles Library Careers aren’t shaped solely in classrooms. At Temple University, we believe they’re also forged and furthered through real-world experience, driven by desire and realized through hard work. This philosophy is one of the reasons that each year, nearly 6,500 graduate and professional students choose to pursue an advanced degree here. Why else should you choose Temple to further your education? Flexible course schedules. A globally respected education. Dynamic faculty. A robust research environment. And campuses both close to home and overseas. Admissions Requirements Requirements for graduate admissions to each school and college can be found on their respective websites. Apply online or explore more information about graduate admissions and application procedures on the Graduate School website. Art Tyler School of Art and Architecture Tyler’s graduate programs are for students whose work has achieved strong definition and who seek continued growth and education in their discipline. We boast a preeminent reputation; a spacious, state-of-the-art facility; and close proximity to our region’s rich cultural offerings. Learn more about the Tyler School of Art and Architecture. Business Fox School of Business The Fox School of Business prepares you to be a leader in today’s increasingly digital, global economy. Our advanced degree programs emphasize entrepreneurship, drive innovation through the use of technology, and broaden your understanding of both domestic and foreign business practices. Learn more about the Fox School of Business. Dentistry Maurice H. Kornberg School of Dentistry You will receive extensive experience and an exceptional clinical education from the Kornberg School of Dentistry. Our dental clinic handles more than 100,000 visits annually, providing an immersive environment in which to hone your diagnostic and clinical skills. Learn more about the Kornberg School of Dentistry. Education College of Education and Human Development For those with advanced degrees, opportunities abound in the education field. By combining research, best practices and real-world experience, undergraduate and graduate programs in the College of Education and Human Development prepare you to be a stronger teacher and a leader. Learn more about the College of Education and Human Development. Engineering College of Engineering Those wishing to increase their knowledge or advance their careers in the engineering field can do so through the College of Engineering. Here, you can engage in cutting-edge research while being taught by faculty members who are published widely and whose research is funded by private and governmental sources. Learn more about the College of Engineering. Law Beasley School of Law The Beasley School of Law is widely respected for our outstanding faculty who blend groundbreaking scholarship with real-world experience and a passion for teaching. Our program prepares you to practice in any setting. Learn more about the Beasley School of Law. Liberal Arts College of Liberal Arts Through our graduate degree programs, students in the College of Liberal Arts are equipped to become vanguards of integrated and innovative thinking. We emphasize international studies, a global perspective and study-abroad opportunities that encourage the positive exchange of ideas and prepare you to impact the world. Learn more about the College of Liberal Arts. Media and Communication Lew Klein College of Media and Communication Located in the nation’s fourth–largest media market, the Klein College of Media and Communication prepares you not only to succeed, but to lead. Our many notable alumni have achieved success as Pulitzer Prize-winning journalists, broadcast executives and prominent on-air talent. Learn more about the Klein College of Media and Communication. Medicine Lewis Katz School of Medicine Nationally ranked by U.S. News and World Report, the School of Medicine prepares you for a rewarding career in either medical practice or research. The combined energy created by our enthusiastic faculty, state-of-the-art technology and soaring new facilities make Temple one of the most exciting places to study medicine today. Learn more about the Katz School of Medicine. Music and Dance Boyer College of Music and Dance Location and leadership are the qualities that draw students from around the world to the Boyer College of Music and Dance. You will learn from leading composers, conductors, performers and choreographers while benefiting from our proximity to Philadelphia’s vast cultural offerings. Learn more about the Boyer College of Music and Dance. Pharmacy School of Pharmacy The School of Pharmacy is located in Temple's bustling Health Sciences Center and near many of the nation’s top pharmaceutical companies. As a student, you will enjoy the ideal combination of a high-quality education, dedicated faculty, active research programs, diversity, community service and a supportive atmosphere. Learn more about the School of Pharmacy. Podiatric Medicine School of Podiatric Medicine Hands-on experience is critical to the development and success of students in the School of Podiatric Medicine. Our Foot and Ankle Institute—one of the most comprehensive centers for podiatric treatment in the world—provides you with a rich environment in which to learn innovative procedures and advance your professional skills. Learn more about the School of Podiatric Medicine. Public Health College of Public Health Rapid changes in healthcare and social services require that professionals in these fields possess advanced knowledge and expertise. The College of Public Health can provide you with the education, practical experience and insight you need to enjoy a vital, vibrant career. Learn more about the College of Public Health. Science and Technology College of Science and Technology It’s hard to deny the important role the College of Science and Technology plays in the science and technology enterprise of Philadelphia, the region and the nation. Our graduate programs encourage scientific exploration and prepare you to influence the lives of future generations. Learn more about the College of Science and Technology. Social Work School of Social Work For decades, the School of Social Work has empowered students to make societal transformations that eliminate injustices and advance the quality of life for all. As a student, you will engage in educational exercises, research activities and public service that encourage critical thinking and develop leadership skills. Learn more about the School of Social Work. Sport, Tourism and Hospitality Management School of Sport, Tourism and Hospitality Management Throughout the Philadelphia region and the world, the School of Tourism and Hospitality Management stands as a model for innovative teaching and research. Our graduate programs prepare you to assume leadership roles and conduct industry-focused research in the areas of tourism, hospitality, and sport and recreation management. Learn more about the School of Sport, Tourism and Hospitality Management. Theater, Film and Media arts School of Theater, Film and Media Arts Temple offers a professional training program in theater and a film and video program, each leading to the MFA. Through the MFA program in theater, actors, designers and technicians collaborate with professional faculty, staff and guest artists to bring contemporary theater to a diverse audience. The graduate program in film and media arts trains professional filmmakers, videomakers, screenwriters and media artists who seek a challenge. Learn more about Temple’s graduate theater program and film and media arts studies. Students with Disabilities When applying for graduate admission to Temple, students with disabilities should follow the standard application process. The presence of a disability is not considered in admissions; documentation should not be sent to the Admissions office. Disability Resources and Services can answer your questions about the resources available. Learn more about Temple’s disability services. Veterans Designated a military-friendly school by G.I. Jobs magazine, Temple is committed to the success of its students who are military service members or veterans. We can help you navigate the admissions process and to make a smooth transition from military to college life. Learn more about Temple's commitment to our veterans. Go back to AdmissionsMore in Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Calendar Policies Social Media TUportal TUmail Accessibility Careers at Temple Safety & Emergency Information Ethics & Compliance Privacy Statement Professional Licensure Disclosures Follow Temple University Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community.