Brown University Quick Exit General Health Physical Health Acne Asthma Breast Exams Bronchitis Colds Concussion Headaches Meningitis Mononucleosis Sleep Seasonal Flu Sun Safety and Skin Cancer Stomach Flu Testicular Self-Exams Travel and Health Yeast Infection Emotional Wellbeing Mindfulness Sleep Stress Self-Care Techniques for Stress Relief Wellness on Campus Social Wellbeing Community, Connection and Coping: Remote Resources Consent Economic Stress Roommate Relationships Unlearning Toxic Masculinity Reproductive Health Abortion Adoption Amenorrhea Bacterial Vaginosis Colposcopy Erectile Dysfunction Pregnancy Gender Care GYN Visits HPV Vaccine Menstruation Pelvic Inflammatory Disease Pregnancy Tests Premature Ejaculation Prenatal Care Testicular Self-Exams Accessing Care Gender Care GYN Visits LGBTQ Health Care at Health Services Men's Health Exams Pregnancy Tests STI Testing Options Resources and Links Nutrition & Eating Concerns Eating Well at Brown Being a Vegetarian Dietary Guidelines Eating Off Meal Plan Meal Plan And Dining Information Supplements Eating Concerns and Body Image Body Image Concerns Eating Concerns Help at Brown Sports Nutrition Relative Energy Deficiency in Sport (RED-S) Sports Nutrition Accessing Care Help at Brown Worried about a Friend Sexual Health Sex 101 SHAG! Erectile Dysfunction Orgasm Premature Ejaculation Sex and Alcohol Sex Toys Sexually Explicit Media Contraception Birth Control Pills Cervical Cap Condoms Depo-Provera Emergency Contraception Fertility Awareness Method Implant Internal Condoms IUD Ortho Evra (The Patch) Ring Spermicides and Lubricants The Recent Election & Contraception Access Withdrawal (Pull Out Method) Reproductive Health Abortion Adoption Amenorrhea Colposcopy Erectile Dysfunction Pregnancy GYN Visits HPV Vaccine Menstruation Pelvic Inflammatory Disease Pregnancy Tests Prenatal Care Testicular Self-Exams Yeast Infection Safer Sex Ship n SHAG! Sexual Health and Safer Sex During Covid-19 Abstinence Condoms Dental Dams Internal Condoms Post Exposure Prophylaxis (PEP) Pre Exposure Prophylaxis (PrEP) Safer Sex Withdrawal (Pull Out Method) STIs AIDS/HIV Bacterial Vaginosis Chlamydia Colposcopy Gonorrhea Hepatitis B Herpes HPV and Genital Warts HPV Vaccine Molluscum Contagiosum Oral Sex and STIs Pelvic Inflammatory Disease Pubic Lice and Scabies Sexually Transmitted Infections Syphilis Talking with a Partner STI Testing Options Trichomoniasis Urinary Tract Infections Yeast Infection Sexual Assault & Dating Violence Get Help Sexual Assault Response Line SHARE Advocates Dating Violence First Five Days After an Assault Male Survivors Sexual Violence and Assault Sexual Harassment Stalking Help a Friend SHARE Advocates How to Help a Friend Get Involved in Prevention Interrupting the Red Zone: How we keep each other safe Culture of Respect Collective Sexual Assault Peer Education (SAPE) Help Prevent Sexual Assault Unlearning Toxic Masculinity Relationships and Communication Consent Dating Violence Learn More Common Reactions to Sexual Violence and Assault Predatory Drugs Sexual Misconduct and Title IX Sexual Violence: Key Terms Resources and Links Alcohol & Other Drugs Alcohol Alcohol and Your Body Recognizing a Problem Risks and Realities Sex and Alcohol Ways to Cut Down Other Drugs Caffeine Cocaine Ecstasy Energy Drinks GHB Inhalants Ketamine LSD Marijuana Methamphetamine Predatory Drugs Psilocybin (Mushrooms) Rohypnol Tobacco Smokeless Tobacco Smoking Cessation Tobacco Learn More Law and Policy Summary Educational Links Accessing Care Resources at Brown Off Campus Resources Calling EMS How to Help a Friend Quit Smoking How to Talk to a Friend about Drinking or Drug Use Google Tag Manager Safer Sex Sexual Health and Safer Sex During Covid-19 What does sexual health look like during a time of social distancing? How do we take care of ourselves and our partners and still benefit from the positive, healthy effects of intimacy and pleasure? Understanding risk reducing measures along with strategies for open and honest communication regarding risks are key to maintaining personal and community wellbeing during the pandemic. Sources for the information on this page: Centers for Disease Control, RI Dept. of Health, NYC Health. How is Covid-19 transmitted? In understanding and assessing risk with sexual activity, it is important to review how we understand that Covid-19 can be contracted. Covid-19 is spread mainly through person-to-person contact, when people are within 6 feet of each other. The virus spreads via respiratory droplets which are released when an infected individual sneezes, coughs, or speaks. These droplets can land in the mouths or noses of people who are nearby or possibly be inhaled into the lungs. Covid-19 can also be passed through saliva and mucus. The virus has also been found in the feces of people who are infected. More studies are needed to determine if Covid-19 can be passed through semen or vaginal fluids. It is possible that Covid-19 could also be contracted by touching a surface that has the virus on it and then touching your mouth, nose, or eyes. There are also some case studies that suggest that Covid-19 may be transmitted through the air. These are not thought to be the main way the virus spreads but are possible avenues for transmission. It is important to remember that we are still learning more about how this virus spreads. How is Covid-19 spread through sexual activity? Covid-19 can be spread whenever we are within 6 feet of someone. Meaning, If you are close enough to touch a partner, you are close enough to transmit or contract Covid-19. Kissing is a particularly high risk activity for Covid-19 transmission. Besides being a very close contact activity, kissing can easily transmit infectious droplets through saliva which can pass the virus. Who can I safely have close contact and sexual activity with? During this time of social distancing, the safest partners for sexual activity are yourself or a partner or partners who are members of your household or pod, so long as you are all consistently practicing social distancing, handwashing and wearing masks when in public. It is safest to avoid sexual activity with anyone that is not a member of your household or pod and particularly to avoid sexual activity with new or casual partners. You can also reduce the risk of contracting or spreading Covid-19 by limiting your number of sexual partners, and/or having conversations with potential sexual partners (including casual sex partners, i.e. hook-up’s) about their risk tolerance and testing status. Finally, make sure you are having conversations with all of your close contacts, sexual or otherwise, about their social distancing, hygiene, and face covering practices. What are non-contact options for sexual activity? Exploring non-contact forms of sexual expression can prevent the spread of Covid-19. Masturbation is safer than in-person contact and can be a fulfilling way to experience sex and sensuality. Check out Planned Parenthood’s guide to self-pleasuring and Covid on Twitter. You might also consider sexual connection and expression that can happen over the internet or the phone. In all sexual situations, the need for mutual consent is paramount and you will want to be sure that everyone is in agreement about guidelines for privacy. While virtual intimacy is as safe as masturbation in terms of physical risk, it can expose someone to the risk of screenshots, videos or images being shared without their consent. How can I reduce the risk of Covid-19 during close contact sexual activity? It is important to remember that although we may take a number of steps to reduce risk for in-person sexual activities, none of these activities are risk-free. However, sexual activity with others can be an important key to our wellbeing and there are steps we can take to minimize our risk. With that in mind, if you choose to have in-person sexual activity, consider using some or all of these risk reduction strategies for Covid-19 prevention: Have sex with just one partner who you live with or otherwise limit your number of sexual partners as well as the number of people you come in close physical contact with. Before physically meeting with a potential partner the first time, arrange to meet for a “first date” virtually via Facetime or another online platform. If you don’t hit it off, don’t meet up in person. If you do, use the opportunity to discuss your risk reduction approach for when you do meet up in person. Ask partners about their social distancing, risk tolerance and face covering practices -- how are they limiting exposure in other situations they are in? Have both or all partners take a test and get results before an in-person meet-up. Remember, even if you receive a negative test, you still need to continue to follow all public health protocols to help limit the spread of the virus. Wear a mask whenever you are within 6 feet of each other and during sex. Do not kiss each other. Avoid contact with other bodily fluids (use condoms, dental dams, etc. or abstain from activities which would expose you to fluids). Wash up before and after sex, including thorough hand washing and cleaning of any shared sex toys or other high touch objects. Keep a record of the encounters with other people and places you go on a day-to-day basis and ask sexual partners to do the same. The RI Department of Health has an app you can use for contact and location tracing. Download it here: https://health.ri.gov/covid/crush/ How can I communicate with my sexual partner(s) that I want to use COVID-19 precautions? Communication surrounding sex can be difficult to start, but is is always very important. With COVID-19 precautions, you can frame it as a conversation around informed consent. If you want to use COVID-19 precautions during sex, it is good to discuss it openly and honestly, similar to how you might approach birth control or STI prevention methods like condoms. Approach the subject in a context outside of sexual activity and come to an agreement beforehand. It is important to approach consent not only with your sexual partner(s), but those who you interact with regularly. Discuss what safety precautions you and your regular contact group will agree to in order to reduce the chances of exposure. This Covid Care article on medium.com offers communication tools for conversations with sexual and other close contacts including a numbered risk tolerance scale and a mapping activity. How can I get safer sex supplies? At Brown, free safer sex supplies are available for online ordering via BWell by Mail with delivery to your on campus mailbox for campus mailbox delivery only. The pharmacy in Health Services also offers supplies for purchase. In addition, if you are being seen at Heatlh Services for any reason, you can ask your provider for a free safer sex supply kit. How can I access STI testing? Health Services continues to offer a full range of preventive health services, including STI testing. Learn more about STI testing at Brown and in Providence here or call Health Services at 401-863-3953 to schedule an appointment. What if I’m not feeling well? If you feel unwell, or even start to feel unwell, self-isolate and avoid kissing, sex or any close contact with others. Use the CDC’s symptom checker to get advice about what to do next or Brown students can call Health Services at 401-863-3953. If you have been exposed to someone with COVID-19, avoid close contact with anyone outside your household and follow guidance about how to prevent exposing others. Brown’s guidance is available on the Healthy Brown website. If you or your partner have a medical condition that can lead to severe COVID-19 illness, youmay want to skip sex. Medical conditions include lung disease, moderate to severe asthma, heart disease, diabetes, obesity, kidney disease, liver disease, cancer or a weakened immune system (for example, having unsuppressed HIV or a low CD4 count). If I am infected with Covid-19, when is it safe for me to resume sexual activity? The guidelines would be the same as those for returning to work or school or otherwise emerging from isolation. Click here to review current guidance from the CDC for when you can be around others after infection. About BWell: Quick Links About Us Staff Confidential Appointments Sexual Assault Response Line Workshops Peer Education Programs Health Empowerment Tools PHONE NUMBERS 401.863-2794 Health Promotion 401.863-3953 Health Services 401.863-6000 Sexual Assault Response Line 401.863-4111 EMS 401.863-3476 Counseling & Psychological Services 401.863-4111 DPS Make an Appointment View the SHAG video series! Ship n SHAG! Place an order with Ship n SHAG and get free safer sex supplies discreetly delivered to your campus mailbox! Get Involved Meet Our Staff About Us Make an Appointment Brown University BWell Health Promotion Health and Wellness Brown University Box 1928 450 Brook Street Providence, Rhode Island, 02912 Phone 401-863-2794 Fax 401-863-7953 [email protected] © 2022 Brown University Connect: [email protected] Related Offices Brown EMS Counseling and Psychological Services Health Services Social Media BWell on Facebook SHAG on Facebook BURP on Facebook Health Services on Facebook