Skip to main content Skip to main navigation Open Mobile Navigation Information Technology Services About Campus Technology Partners Training/Seminars Policies + Guidelines Security #BearAware Baylor ITS Staff Badges Bear ID Data Classification Standards Information Security Program Plan Network Filtering Solutions + Services Support Information Technology Services Information Technology Services empowers Baylor University by providing and supporting technology solutions for faculty, staff, and students. View real-time system status updates, learn about our organization and its consultation services, and navigate to HelpDesk+ for software and hardware support. Support and Solutions HelpDesk+ provides premiere technology support and equipment that empowers research and learning at Baylor. We also consult with researchers, departments, and administrative units to discover technology solutions to meet a variety of needs. HelpDesk+ Looking for technical support, equipment for checkout, audio/video production, 3D printing, or other maker resources? Start your support journey here. IT Consultations Are you looking for software, hardware, or other technical solutions to enable your research or your operations? Learn more about our technology consultancy services. Webex and BigBlueButton Access Ending Soon Access to Webex and BigBlueButton within Canvas will end at the end of the spring term. Microsoft Teams and Zoom will serve as Baylor's videoconferencing solutions moving forward. Learn More Something Not Working? Check System Status! Visit systemstatus.baylor.edu for 24/7 real-time updates on the status of technology systems at Baylor. LEARN MORE Microsoft 365 Microsoft 365 provides a growing suite of productivity solutions that includes Word, Excel, PowerPoint, Teams, Outlook, and so much more... Log In Box Box provides a growing suite of collaboration tools that empower teams to create ideas, develop and edit files, and manage projects. Log In LinkedIn Learning LinkedIn Learning provides more than 16,000 courses on a wide array of topics to help Baylor students, staff, and faculty continue their growth. Learn More Zoom Zoom provides a robust remote communication and collaboration platform to support virtual instruction, team meetings, webinars and other online events. Learn More Be #BearAware In and Out of....The Office #BearAware is Baylor's annual cybersecurity awareness initiative. A secure cyber environment starts with responsible, wise actions by each person in the Baylor community. Learn More Policies Technology Purchasing Move Packet Reset Password System Status News More News Mar. 31, 2022 Webex and BigBlueButton Access Ending Soon Access to Webex and BigBlueButton within Canvas will end at the end of the spring term. Microsoft Teams and Zoom will serve as Baylor's videoconferencing solutions moving forward. Read More Mar. 29, 2022 Global Phishing Attacks Reach New Heights in 2021 The global non-profit Anti-Phishing Working Group released its Q4 report in late February, finding that phishing, spearing, and ransomware attacks have reached record levels. Read More Feb. 15, 2022 BearAware Alert: Phishing This past weekend the Baylor community experienced a series of email phishing attacks. DUO two-factor authentication provides a barrier of protection for the university against phishing attacks and other outside access to Baylor information systems. Only approve DUO pushes, phone calls, and use tokens that you know you have requested, and report emails that appear "phishy" to abuse@baylor.edu. Read More Feb. 11, 2022 Majority of faculty respond positively in transition from phones to Microsoft Teams [Baylor Lariat] While some faculty members said they have experienced difficulties following the transition from traditional landlines to the Microsoft Teams Call platform last semester, Jon Allen, chief information officer and chief information security officer, said via email the vast majority of feedback he has received has been positive. Read More Information Technology Services One Bear Place #97268 Waco, Texas 76798-7268 (254) 710-4357 helpdesk@baylor.edu About Back Campus Technology Partners Training/Seminars Policies + Guidelines Security Back #BearAware Baylor ITS Staff Badges Bear ID Data Classification Standards Information Security Program Plan Network Filtering Solutions + Services Support General Information Academics & Research Administration Admissions Gateways for ... About Baylor Athletics Ask Baylor Bookstore Calendar Campus Map Directory Give Light Give to Baylor Illuminate News Pro Futuris Search Social Media Baylor Libraries College of Arts & Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work George W. Truett Theological Seminary Graduate School Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Louise Herrington School of Nursing Research at Baylor University Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Engineering & Computer Science School of Music More Academics Athletics Human Resources Marketing and Communications Office of General Counsel Office of the President Office of the Provost Operations, Finance & Administration Senior Administration Student Life University Advancement Undergraduate Admissions goBAYLOR Graduate Admissions Baylor Law School Admissions Social Work Graduate Programs George W. Truett Theological Seminary Admissions Online Graduate Professional Education Virtual Tour Visit Campus Alumni & Friends Faculty & Staff Online Graduate Professional Education Parents Prospective Faculty & Staff Prospective Students Students Accessibility Anonymous Reporting Annual Fire Safety and Security Notice Digital Privacy Legal Disclosures Mental Health Resources Report It Title IX Copyright © Baylor® University. All rights reserved. Baylor University • Waco, Texas 76798 • 1-800-229-5678