Skip to Main Content Search the Site Submit Site Search Start typing, then use the up and down arrows to select an option from the list give menu The University About Academics Programs Administration Admissions Centers & Institutes Patient Care Research Services Student Services & Resources Vitals Spirit Shop Resources 87th Texas Legislative Session Announcements Events Directory Campuses Catalog Human Resources Libraries Online Bookstore Safety Services Webraider Portal Give Info For... SAFE | COVID-19 Prospective Students Current Students Residents Faculty & Staff Jobs at TTUHSC Alumni & Friends Give to TTUHSC Patient Care Visitors & Community Media The Counseling Center @TTUHSC Home Centers & Institutes Counseling Counseling Counseling Center Home Employee Assistance Program Program of Assistance for TTUHSC Students Resources EMDR TAO FAQ'S Our Staff Counselors Employer Information Supervisor Referrals Contact Information Caring & Confidential The Counseling Center @TTUHSC is an Employee Assistance Program (EAP) and the Program of Assistance for Students (PAS) of TTUHSC. Our staff of trained professionals (all counselors are licensed by the state of Texas) is committed to providing quality counseling and assistance for individuals, couples, families, and work groups. Employers contract with us to give you a set number of confidential counseling sessions, all of which are provided at no cost to you. We strive to create and maintain an environment that enhances and encourages the positive self-image of the client and family, and preserves human dignity. Services are free (6-8 sessions to those who qualify) and completely confidential. We welcome the opportunity to work with you to develop a healthier, more satisfying life. The Counseling Center addresses a full range of emotional and behavioral problems that impair job performance and contribute to rising employer costs. See Contact Information for all TTUHSC campuses.The services we offer are: Individual, Couples and Family Counseling Referrals Wellness Workshops Critical Incident Stress Management New Employee Orientations Employee and Departmental Interventions 24-hour Crisis Line Make an Appointment The Counseling Center @ TTUHSC provides consultation and therapeutic services to employers, and their employees, with the primary mission being to promote health and wellness in the workplace. Call 806.743.1327 or 800.327.0328 counselingcenter@ttuhsc.edu Follow us on Facebook or Instagram *** Check out Coronavirus Explained on Netflix, specifically 3rd video, HOW TO COPE If you are in crisis and one of the following applies to you: You feel you are in immediate danger of harming yourself. You feel you are in immediate danger of harming someone else. You have recently been assaulted or had a traumatic experience. Please do one of the following: Call 911 – you will be connected with the police who can help you get emergency services. Call the Starcare Crisis Team (806-740-1414). Go to your local emergency room. Texas Suicide Prevention Discovering the truth about ourselves is a lifetime's work, but it's worth the effort. Fred Rogers Quick Links Sitemap Title IX Clery Annual Report Emergency Preparedness Equal Opportunity Accessibility Open Record Requests TTUHSC Energy Conservation Report Texas Tech University System Texas Tech University TTUHSC El Paso Angelo State University Midwestern State University State of Texas Website Statewide Search (T.R.A.I.L) Online Institutional Resumes Site Policies, Manuals and State Reporting Texas Homeland Security SAO Fraud Reporting DMCA Compliance Fraud and Misconduct Hotline Texas Veterans Portal Mental Health Resources Campus Carry Translate a TTUHSC Page Contact Maps & Directions Jobs at TTUHSC Contact TTUHSC Site Policies Privacy Notice Website Update Request Media Inquiries Texas Tech University Health Sciences Center 3601 4th Street, Lubbock TX 79430 T: 806.743.1000 ©2020 TTUHSC Facebook Instagram LinkedIn Twitter Youtube ©