Skip to main content Admissions Outcomes The Student Experience Financial Aid Degree Finder Academics Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Research, Scholarship & Creativity Centers & Institutes Geisel School of Medicine Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Thayer School of Engineering Tuck School of Business Campus Life Events Diversity & Inclusion Athletics & Recreation Student Groups & Activities Residential Life More About News Giving News Media Search Dartmouth College Explore Dartmouth Admin Site Banner Ethics Institute Contact Us Ethics.Institute@Dartmouth.EDUContact & Department Info Mail Main menu Menu Home About About the Institute Endowment Join Our Mailing List People Back to Top Nav News & Events News & Events Annual Events Dorsett Fellowship Lecture Series Aaron Lecture Series Moral and Political Philosophy Workshop Special Events Undergrad Meet and Greets Pediatric Ethics Conference Back to Top Nav Programs Annual Moral & Political Philosophy Workshop Law & Ethics Fellowship Back to Top Nav Students Law & Ethics Fellowship Law and Ethics Fellows Attend a Meet & Greet Thomas D. Sayles Research Grant Phillips Family Award Ethics Across the Curriculum Graduate School Ethics Training Back to Top Nav Faculty Sayles Research Grant Classroom Enhancement Grant Co-sponsorships Manuscript Review Back to Top Nav Search form Search this site CloseGo Search 2022 Law and Ethics Fellowship The 2022 Law and Ethics fellowship program is a two-term fellowship that introduces students to the study and application of ethics and its relationship to the practice of disagreement on the Supreme Court and some pending cases on its docket. Students will meet with a range of scholars, including our named lecturers Steven Pinker and Nita Farahany, in a small, informal group setting. Ethics Across the Curriculum Normative questions are at the core of the study of ethics. This includes not just those working in moral and political philosophy but those who also study legal institutions and norms, religious ethics, health care ethics, welfare economics and a range of other topics and issues. The Institute seeks to build upon this core as it affirms an ecumenical definition of "ethics," one that intersects with a range of disciplines across the Dartmouth curriculum. Phillips Family Award in Ethics The Phillips Family Award in Ethics is presented annually to an undergraduate student from Dartmouth College who has successfully demonstrated strength and interest in applied and professional ethics. A prize of up to $1000 is awarded to the winning paper or papers. Apply here. PreviousNext Congratulations to our 2022 Law and Ethics Fellows Law and Ethics Fellowship Fellows meet with scholars and discuss new research on the Constitution and ethics, pending cases before the Supreme Court, and attend our public lectures. Learn more Application Deadline June 5, 2022 Phillips Family Award in Ethics Congratulations to the 2021 Phillips Family Award in Ethics winners Noah Campbell '21 and Delphine Jrolf '21. Read their senior theses here. DEADLINE for fall term: August 12, 2022 Sayles Student Research Grants The Ethics Institute seeks to advance Dartmouth's unique teacher scholar model by providing graduate and undergraduate students funds to work on a research project under the supervision of a Dartmouth faculty advisor. Learn more News & Events view all Jun 03 1:00PM EEES Grad. Program Thesis Haldeman Hall 41 (Kreindler Conference Hall) Grant Gutierrez will present his PhD thesis: Navigating Acceptable Risk: Environmental Justice and the Politics of Ecological Improvement in Puget Sound. Jun 05 12:00AM Phillips Family Award in Ethics Deadline June 5, 2022 Blunt Alumni Center, Room 201 The Phillips Family Award in Ethics is presented annually to an undergraduate from Dartmouth College who has demonstrated strength and interest in applied and professional ethics. Jun 07 12:15PM Creating, Using, Misusing, and Detecting Deep Fakes ECSC, Teal 116 Hany will provide an overview of how synthetic media is created, how it is being used and misused, and if and how it can be perceptually and forensically distinguished from reality Aug 12 3:00PM Sayles Student Research Grant Fall Applications Due Blunt Alumni Center, Suite 201 The Ethics Institute seeks to advance Dartmouth's unique teacher scholar model by providing graduate and undergraduate students funds to work on an ethics-related research project. Sep 23 9:00AM Workshop on Constitutional Theory and General Jurisprudence To be announced This workshop aims to examine the philosophical foundations of some of the most pressing debates in contemporary American constitutional theory. Sep 24 9:00AM Workshop on Constitutional Theory and General Jurisprudence To be announced This workshop aims to examine the philosophical foundations of some of the most pressing debates in contemporary American constitutional theory. Main menu Dartmouth College Ethics Institute About About the Institute Endowment Join Our Mailing List People News & Events News & Events Annual Events Dorsett Fellowship Lecture Series Aaron Lecture Series Moral and Political Philosophy Workshop Special Events Undergrad Meet and Greets Pediatric Ethics Conference Programs Annual Moral & Political Philosophy Workshop Law & Ethics Fellowship Students Law & Ethics Fellowship Law and Ethics Fellows Attend a Meet & Greet Thomas D. Sayles Research Grant Phillips Family Award Ethics Across the Curriculum Graduate School Ethics Training Faculty Sayles Research Grant Classroom Enhancement Grant Co-sponsorships Manuscript Review Ribbon Footer People Director Sonu Bedi Sonu.S.Bedi@Dartmouth.edu Program Coordinator Diane Belback Diane.N.Belback@Dartmouth.edu Find Us Address 6031 Blunt Alumni Center Suite 201 20 North Main Street Hanover, NH 03755Come find us! Phone: 646-1263 HB: HB 6031 Email: Ethics.Institute@Dartmouth.EDU More Contact Information Close Contact Us My Dartmouth Students Faculty Staff Alumni Families Find it Fast A-Z Index Campus Map Directory Events News Visit Resources Dartmouth at a Glance Accessibility Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Careers Sexual Respect & Title IX Connect With Us Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College • Privacy • Policies • Contact • Site or Accessibility Feedback