Skip to main content Google Tag Manager Explore Brown University Search Brown Show/Hide powered by Learn More About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life Find A to Z Index People Directory Information for Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Top Destinations Global Brown Watson Institute Graduate School Alpert Medical School School of Public Health School of Engineering Swearer Center. Brown University. Search form Search Home About Programs Voting at Brown Events at Swearer about programs People Stories Students Faculty Community Partners Friends & Alumni Sign up for our Newsletter Students Undergraduate Students Learn, act, reflect, integrate and begin again - this is experiential education. Students access opportunities to engage with communities through the Swearer Center, building the capacities of community partners to address inequities and social injustice. By forging authentic, reciprocal relationships with partners, students gain skills through collaboration. Students create and apply knowledge, skills, values and academic pursuits to make positive social change, to consider their position in the world, and to construct the purpose they will carry into life after Brown. Through BrownEngage, students can explore community engagement opportunities, join 500 Brown undergraduates in Community Corps (a Swearer Center program for students engaging in direct service), participate in programs or fellowships, access trainings and workshops, register for events and reflect upon and share experiences. Our programs, events and activities reflect the perspectives of community engagement, engaged scholarship and social innovation and are guided by the Swearer Center’s core learning outcomes. Peer Advising Student Advisory Committee (SAC) SAC Student Support Funding Student Awards Engaged Research Mini-Grants Graduate Students Graduate students who are already engaged with–or would like to engage with–community partners in their research, teaching, creative activities, or any aspect of their professional or personal life are welcome to participate in the Swearer Center community. Students in any academic program can apply for research and program administration fellowships at the Swearer Center; join learning communities or attend events to learn, reflect, and strategize with colleagues; mentor undergraduate students; and consult with Swearer Center staff about their interests. See more information on the graduate student opportunities page. Opportunities for Graduate Students Propose a Workshop BrownEngage initiatives Learn about our initiatives for students, faculty, and community partners. workshops Find a workshop to help build your personal and professional toolkit for engagement. courses Find an engaged scholar course. programs Find the program that fits your interest to engage and innovate with communities! Celebrating the Class of 2022. read> Introducing the Engaged Scholarship Certificate. read> Get to know our new Executive Director, Mary Jo Callan. read> Swearer Center Signs National Pledge to Prioritize Civic Engagement. read> See All Students Stories Contact Swearer Center Brown University 2 Stimson Avenue Box 1974 Providence, R.I. 02912 +1 401 863 2338 s[email protected] Quicklinks Home About Programs Voting at Brown Events at Swearer BrownEngage Connect Swearer http://www.facebook.com/SwearerCenter https://twitter.com/swearercenter https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCDdrA9Z9vbwIOAjCHxjvp7Q https://www.instagram.com/swearercenter/ https://www.linkedin.com/company/swearercenter Giving to Brown Brown University Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-1000 Maps & Directions / Contact Us / Accessibility © 2016 Brown University Connect: [email protected] Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram iTunes U LinkedIn SnapChat