Skip Navigation California State University, Fullerton Site Menu College of Engineering and Computer Science Software Engineering Program Main Navigation About Program Cost Courses FAQ How to Apply How to Enroll Faculty Contact and Support Program Brochure Program Handbook Orientation and Midpoint Seminars Workshop and Lectures Online Master of Science in Software Engineering (MSE) Program The MSE program is designed for professionals working in the field of computer science who wish to further their skills and pursue graduate level education in software engineering. The MSE curriculum covers industry de-facto standard and international standard models in software process, software process assessment and improvement, software requirements, software architectural design, software testing, software project management, software measurement, and software engineering ethics, such as agile processes, Scrum, XP, CMMI/SCAMPI, ISO 12207/15504, ISO/IEEE standards, SESC framework, test process, agile testing, maintenance metrics, Attribute-Driven Design (ADD), estimation and scheduling, project planning, and many current practices in the field. Applications for Fall 2022 admission are open! Application (Cal State Apply) Deadline: International students: April 1, 2022 Domestic students: July 1, 2022 Required Documents Deadline: International students: April 17, 2022 Domestic students: July 17, 2022 See How to Apply for more details. Fall 2022 enrollment is open now. For more information, please refer to the Registration Guide . Students in fully online programs (including MSE) are not required to submit vaccine records at this time. For more information, please visit coronavirus.fullerton.edu. ONLINE PROGRAM All courses 100% online Asynchronous course delivery If you want to discuss the program, curriculum, or admission requirements in person or online, please contact the program coordinator, Dr. Ryu, at tryu@fullerton.edu. Free Summer Coding Bootcamp July 1 - July 31, 2022 The Bootcamp is to help those who do not have much coding experience and wish to learn the following techniques: Basic Web or mobile application development techniques using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, React, Node, and Relational or NoSQL database Microservices and service-oriented architecture Serverless computing with AWS Lambda Optionally, continuous integration and continuous deployment (CI/CD) practice If you are interested in the Bootcamp, please sign up HERE as soon as possible since the seats are limited. RECOGNIZED PROGRAM Ranked 25th in the Best online Engineering Programs by US News and World reports. Ranked 1st in the Top 25 Online Master’s in Software Engineering, Intelligent.com, 2021. Ranked 2nd in the 25 Best Online Master’s Degrees in Software Engineering 2020, Best Value Schools, 2021 Ranked 5th in 25 Best Online Master's in Software Engineering Degrees by Best Computer Science Schools. (2017-2018). Ranked 7th in the Best Online Master’s in Software Engineering Degrees, College Choice, 2021 AFFORDABLE PROGRAM Ranked 1st in the most Affordable Online Master’s in Software Engineering Degrees by Best Computer Science Schools . Ranked 6th in the Online Master’s Degrees in Software Engineering, AffordableColleges.com, 2020 "You get the opportunity to network with likeminded individuals in the industry and work with them to simultaneously expand and hone in on your own skillset." - Corey A. Rogers, MSE alumni (2014 - 2016) Academic Calendar: https://apps.fullerton.edu/AcademicCalendar/ Contact us Contact our staff for any queries related to the MSE program Contact Us Requirements Know more about the Requirements and how to apply to MSE program Requirements Courses and Schedule See detailed information about the courses and schedule Courses This site is maintained by College of Engineering and Computer Science. Last Published 5/28/22 To report problems or comments with this site, please contact ecswebmaster@fullerton.edu. © California State University, Fullerton. All Rights Reserved. Web Accessibility CSUF is committed to ensuring equal accessibility to our users. Let us know about any accessibility problems you encounter using this website. We'll do our best to improve things and get you the information you need. Resources: Download Adobe Acrobat Reader Adobe Reader Download Word viewer, or download Excel viewer, or download PowerPoint viewer Microsoft Viewers Report An ATI Issue Accessible @ CSUF Version_4.8.10 This page uses AJAX data import which rely on javascript. You do not have javascript enabled, some functions will be disabled. This page uses javascript to help render elements, if you have problems please enable javascript.