Skip to main content Research and Creative Activity × Coronavirus Updates Skip to main content FSU | Office of Research FSU | Office of Research Search FSU Navigation Select Search Type This Site FSU Sites Student Directory Faculty & Staff Directory Departments & Services Search Search Academics Admissions Research Faculty Students Veterans Support FSU Research and Creative Activity FSU astrophysicist chosen for key role in international science collaboration mapping remnant light from the Big Bang Read more about FSU astrophysicist chosen for key role in international science collaboration mapping remnant light from the Big Bang ‘Our best selves’: FSU poets celebrate National Poetry Month 2022 Read more about ‘Our best selves’: FSU poets celebrate National Poetry Month 2022 FSU College of Nursing launches new Center for Brain Science and Symptom Management Read more about FSU College of Nursing launches new Center for Brain Science and Symptom Management FSU Religion faculty awarded prestigious Luce Foundation grant to examine race, build health equity Read more about FSU Religion faculty awarded prestigious Luce Foundation grant to examine race, build health equity What is FSU Research and Creative Activity? Analyzing the long-term effects of the 2010 Deepwater Horizon oil spill. Understanding how people make decisions. Exploring new filmmaking techniques. Pushing the boundaries of alternative energy. Producing new and inspiring creative works of art. These are just a small sampling of the different types of research and creative activities taking place at FSU on a daily basis. Research and creative activity is about discovery. It’s about having an idea and finding the right environment in which to explore that idea. At FSU, we take great pride in our ability to provide supportive environments for the exploration of all types of ideas; and with approximately $200 million in research expenditures each year, and more than 50 prominent research centers and institutes calling our campuses home, FSU continues to be one of the top idea-incubators in the nation. BIG BETS - Florida Center for Reading Research FSU Research on Twitter Skip FSU Research Twitter feed Tweets by FSUResearch FSU Research Fact $328.6 Million The total research expenditures for FSU, which includes federal, state and other funding sources. These funds are used by student and faculty researchers to gain new knowledge and pursue new discoveries in a multitude of areas. The ultimate goal of their research? To save lives, improve society and help drive human advancement. Areas of Interest Office of Research FSU Faculty Information Undergraduate Research Graduate Student Research Research Centers and Institutes Annual Research Statistics COVID-19 FAQ for Researchers FSU Research Makes News 4/18/22 Fighting with a loved one is healthy if you do it right. Here’s how (CNN) 03/29/22 Puttering around: Why small tasks feel so therapeutic (BBC) 4/12/22 Why Airbnb Cleaning Fees Cost So Much Now (Wall Street Journal) 4/24/2022 Why did women vote for Hitler? Long-forgotten essays hold some answers (Yahoo) More Research News Address 3012 Westcott North Tallahassee, Florida 32306 Maps Contact Email: research@magnet.fsu.edu Phone: 850-644-9694 See Directory for a full list of research offices Office Hours Monday - Friday: 8:00 AM - 5:00 PM EST Technical Problems? Public Records Requests © Florida State University Tallahassee, FL 32306 FSU Directory Assistance Questions or Comments Privacy Policy Copyright Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube LinkedIn More FSU Social Media © Florida State University | Tallahassee, FL 32306 | 850-644-9694 × ×