Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Teacher Education and Clinical Practice About Admission to TEP Undergraduate Graduate Residency/Clinical Practice Licensure/Apply Forms Praxis Events FAQ Contact Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact Undergraduate Advising Undergraduate Advising FormsICL Undergraduate MajorsAdditional Teaching Areas Transfer Students Teacher Licensure Praxis Test Praxis InformationPraxis Core ResourcesPraxis Undergraduate Scholarship Scholarships EdTPA Graduation Educator Dispositions Assessment Take Action Praxis Exams Dates and Deadlines Scholarships & Awards Contact Us Follow Us Online InstagramFacebooktwitter Home Teacher Education and Clinical Practice Undergraduate Undergraduate Advising The Teacher Education Office advises the following ICL undergraduate majors. Click each link to choose your career path: I want to teach or work with children from infant-8 years old and earn licensure for PreK-3rd grade. Human Development and Learning (Early Childhood Education) I want to teach math for grades 6-12 with this program that combines math content knowledge with education expertise. Integrative Studies: Secondary Math (6-12th grade licensure) I want to work with youth in non-school settings and non-profits. I want to take specialized courses focused on diversity, equity and inclusion and gain real-world experience to work with youth. Integrative Studies: Youth Development (Non-Licensure) Youth Development concentration website> I want to teach elementary students in Kindergarten through 5th grade and/or teach/work in a Special Education program serving students in K-12. Teaching All Learners (Elementary K-5 and Interventionist K-12 [dual licensure program]) Undergraduate Advisor Ta'Juanna Smith is the COE Undergraduate advisor. Her email address is tnsmith6@memphis.edu. Before you meet with the advisor, it may be helpful to look over the appropriate program-advising sheet above and review the program requirements for the degree you seek. To schedule an appointment with the advisor, please visit Navigate or contact Ta'Juanna. K-12 Education Minor Are you interested in teaching but have a minor outside of education? Learn more about the new K-12 Education Minor>. View the K-12 Education Minor degree sheet>. Videos Become a Tiger and Become a Teacher with the COE Additional Majors For education majors outside of Instruction, Curriculum, and Leadership (ICL) Department, please visit the following websites or contact the area advisor for more information: English as a Second Language Music Education Physical Education Visual Art Education Bridget Wells Dr. Heather Klossner Kathy Walker Dr. Bryna Bobick Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 2/24/22 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.