Skip to main content Main navigation Mobile Educational Programs Master’s Programs Executive Education Doctoral Programs Public Leadership Credential Courses Academic Calendars & Policies Admissions & Aid Master's Program Admissions Executive Education Admissions Doctoral Program Admissions Funding Your Education Faculty & Research Faculty Profiles Publications Policy Topics PolicyCast Library & Knowledge Services Centers & Initiatives Ash Center for Democratic Governance and Innovation Belfer Center for Science and International Affairs Carr Center for Human Rights Policy Center for International Development Center for Public Leadership Institute of Politics Malcolm Wiener Center for Social Policy Mossavar-Rahmani Center for Business and Government Shorenstein Center on Media, Politics and Public Policy Taubman Center for State and Local Government Women and Public Policy Program All Initiatives Alumni Connect Volunteer Give Back Benefits Events About More COVID-19: Keep HKS Healthy Commencement About News & Announcements Events Student Life Directory Employers HKS Magazine Contact Us Search Search Main navigation Educational Programs Master’s Programs Executive Education Doctoral Programs Public Leadership Credential Courses Academic Calendars & Policies Admissions & Aid Master's Program Admissions Executive Education Admissions Doctoral Program Admissions Funding Your Education Faculty & Research Faculty Profiles Publications Policy Topics PolicyCast Library & Knowledge Services Centers & Initiatives Ash Center for Democratic Governance and Innovation Belfer Center for Science and International Affairs Carr Center for Human Rights Policy Center for International Development Center for Public Leadership Institute of Politics Malcolm Wiener Center for Social Policy Mossavar-Rahmani Center for Business and Government Shorenstein Center on Media, Politics and Public Policy Taubman Center for State and Local Government Women and Public Policy Program All Initiatives Alumni Connect Volunteer Give Back Benefits Events About More COVID-19: Keep HKS Healthy Commencement About News & Announcements Events Student Life Directory Employers HKS Magazine Contact Us Search Search Employers In This Section More Employers About Our Graduates Hire HKS Post a Job, Internship, or Fellowship Host a Summer Intern Become a PAE Client Contact Us In This Section You are here Home Employers Let's change the world together. Harvard Kennedy School students and graduates want to advance the mission and work of your organization. And they know how, using their accrued knowledge, skills, and perspectives to help tackle the growing challenges of our complex world. That’s good for society, and good for you. From internships to client-based projects like our Policy Analysis Exercise, you can gain from our students’ initiative and drive. Through recruiting and hiring, join a range of employers that benefit from the expertise and exceptional talent of our graduates. We teach integrative approaches to analyzing complex problems at HKS. Our graduates understand issues through a global and multi-disciplinary perspective, equipping them to innovate, build teams, and lead. They have the tools to advance the public interest across sectors in ways that are versatile, forward-thinking, and effective. Explore these pages to learn how our students and graduates can serve the needs of your organization, how to hire HKS, and the ways to connect with our talent by reading our recruiting policy. At Harvard Kennedy School, our mission is to empower citizens and nations through leadership, teaching, practice, and scholarship. With our commitment to bold and value-driven leadership, we are a place that convenes the best minds to create change. About Our Graduates Our graduates are making their mark in the public, nonprofit, and private sectors and solving challenges across the globe. Hire HKS Recruit and interview talented students, participate in our career fairs and events, and lead informal discussions—all remotely. Employment Snapshot HKS alumni are making lasting impact across industries, sectors, and national borders. Read about the positions accepted by our students by graduating class. 79 John F. Kennedy Street Cambridge, MA 02138 617-495-1100 Ask What You Can Do Master’s Programs Executive Education Doctoral Programs Public Leadership Credential Admissions Events Give Now Alumni Jobs Contact Us Privacy Web Accessibility Copyright © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College. https://www.facebook.com/harvardkennedyschool/ https://twitter.com/kennedy_school https://www.linkedin.com/school/harvard-kennedy-school-of-government/ https://www.youtube.com/user/HarvardKennedySchool http://instagram.com/harvardkennedyschool/