Skip to main content Temple University Explore Temple’s Schools and Colleges Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Support Temple Temple University Search Site Search Full Menu Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees President History & Traditions Temple Health News & Media Offices Public Information Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Development Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Libraries Policy and Organizational Studies PhD You are here Home Academics Degrees and Programs Policy and Organizational Studies PhD Apply Visit Request More Info Policy and Organizational Studies PhD Admissions Information Careers & Opportunities Curriculum Our Faculty Research & Facilities Scholarships & Financial Aid Policy and Organizational Studies PhD Deepen your understanding of how to manage the change process within educational, community, or other types of organizational systems while specializing in a subject that inspires you. Earn the interdisciplinary Policy and Organizational Studies PhD, which includes concentrations in Adult and Organizational Development, Higher Education, and Urban Education, from Temple’s College of Education and Human Development. Immerse yourself in a program that embraces social justice-oriented, and community-connected scholarship as you gain a firm foundational understanding of social science and policy analysis. Refine your research skills by completing multiple courses in research methods, including qualitative and quantitative research. Build upon your fundamental education knowledge and concentrate on a specialization of your choice while taking advantage of Temple’s location in the midst of Philadelphia’s highly diverse communities. Apply your knowledge through research and teaching apprenticeships in real-world settings within the city’s dense network of educational districts and institutions. For full course and curriculum information, look to your specific concentration. Concentrations Choose to focus on one of the following concentrations as you pursue the Policy and Organizational Studies PhD. Adult and Organizational Development Develop the theoretical knowledge and research methodology to discover or create new protocols or support systems that help adults, teams, and organizations develop constructive processes for addressing conflict and adapting to change. Higher Education Prepare for senior leadership positions in colleges and universities by developing the doctorate-level expertise to construct new ways to improve institutional effectiveness, college access and success, or student affairs leadership. Urban Education Position yourself to break new ground in urban school reform policy and practice by developing deep theoretical understanding of such schools’ social context and the precise research methodology needed to uncover new insights. Tuition & Fees In keeping with Temple’s commitment to access and affordability, this Doctor of Philosophy offers a competitive level of tuition with multiple opportunities for financial support. Tuition rates are set annually by the university and are affected by multiple factors, including program degree level (undergraduate or graduate), course load (full- or part-time), in-state or out-of-state residency, and more. These tuition costs apply to the 2021–2022 academic year. Pennsylvania resident: $966.00 per credit Out-of-state: $1,329.00 per credit Learn more about our tuition and fees. Student Clubs & Organizations Find peer support and leadership opportunities while tackling the challenges of your program by joining organizations such as the ones below. The Graduate Student Organization of the College of Education and Human Development runs community-based events like school supply drives as well as professional development workshops and activities. The organization upholds a strong commitment to social justice, regularly organizing political events and engaging in projects with community partners. The Temple University Graduate Students Association, a student employee union, maintains positive working lives and conditions for graduate student assistants. Adult and Organizational Development Program Contact Charles Price, associate professor, is the faculty program coordinator of the Policy and Organizational Studies PhD with a concentration in Adult and Organizational Development. Phone: 215-204-5738 Email: charles.price1@temple.edu Higher Education Program Contact James Earl Davis, professor, is the faculty program contact for the Policy and Organizational Studies PhD with a concentration in Higher Education. Phone: 215-204-3002 Email: jdavis21@temple.edu Urban Education Program Contact Edward Fergus, associate professor, is the faculty program coordinator of the Policy and Organizational Studies PhD with a concentration in Urban Education. Phone: 215-204-6403 Email: edward.fergus@temple.edu Questions For more information about this program, the College of Education and Human Development, how to apply for admission, and your application status, contact Enrollment Management. Enrollment Management Phone: 215-204-8011 Email: educate@temple.edu ED-POS-PHD Additional Program Information Visit College Site View Program Details Go back to AcademicsMore in Policy and Organizational Studies PhD Admissions Information Careers & Opportunities Curriculum Our Faculty Research & Facilities Scholarships & Financial Aid Apply Visit Request More Info Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Calendar Policies Social Media TUportal TUmail Accessibility Careers at Temple Safety & Emergency Information Ethics & Compliance Privacy Statement Professional Licensure Disclosures Follow Temple University Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community. Apply Visit Request More Info