COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW WSU News While still working toward her degree in health management at Wichita State, Madeline Shonka also devoted her time to creating Co-Immunity, a health tech startup for people with chronic illness. April 29, 2022College of Health ProfessionsEntrepreneurApplied LearningGraduate Meet a Shocker: Madeline Shonka By Abigail Klein, public relations advisor Madeline Shonka is an entrepreneur who started Co-Immunity, a health tech startup for people with chronic illnesses while a student at Wichita State. Madeline is one of more than 2,400 students eligible for spring/summer 2022 graduation. Learn more about her time at WSU and what is next for the grad. Hometown Wichita, Kansas Degree Bachelor of Science in Health Management What made you want to attend Wichita State? The proximity to home, the size, and the involvement opportunities were what led me to choose Wichita State. What was been your biggest challenge as a student, and how did you overcome it? My biggest challenge in college was being chronically ill. I have lupus which makes life complicated, but thankfully Wichita State has an incredible Office of Disability Services. Communication was key to navigating as a student. What has been your most helpful learning experience at Wichita State? With the help of mentors like Rob Gerlach, Tech Transfer and Commercialization executive director, Dr. Suzanne Hawley, College of Health Professions Department of Public Health Sciences professor, and the Center for Entrepreneurship I was able to create a 501(c)(3) non-profit and health tech startup called Co-Immunity for people with chronic illness. It has been an incredible applied learning experience. What are your plans after graduation? I moved in April to Minneapolis to pursue Co-Immunity and our newly launched chronic illness symptom tracking app, CoVstat. How did the COVID-19 pandemic affected your time at Wichita State? It definitely changed things. As a health management major, I was actually taking an epidemiology class during the beginning of COVID-19 which was incredibly interesting. Dr. Amy Drassen Ham did an excellent job of keeping us informed early on as it first spread before lockdown. She capitalized on the fact that we were going to witness a part of history. What advice would you give other Wichita State students? Get involved and try new things. One of my favorite classes was a criminal justice serial killer class. Bachelor of Science in Health Managment The fast paced health care environment needs managers with solid business skills who can apply creative approaches to health care delivery and support services. You will be prepared to plan, direct and coordinate medical and health services and adapt quickly to changes in health care laws, regulations and technology. Health care is a business with all the challenges of effective and efficient business operations. As a health care manager you will demonstrate strong business skills tempered with the traditional medical mission of service to others. Learn more about Bachelor of Science in Health Managment Read more stories like this Related Stories Talent Pipeline Beyond the Classroom: Anllir Ramirez-Tenorio Access and Affordability Beyond the Classroom: Keegan Staats Talent Pipeline Beyond the Classroom: Alia Michaelis students Meet a Shocker: Cameron McGinley 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©