Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Information For Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff Search BC.edu Links Vice Provost for Research Menu Main Nav Vice Provost for Research Vice Provost for Research Contact Back Back Close About Overview Research Facilities Animal Care Facility Clean Room Electron Microscopy Flow Cytometry BD FACSAria Cell Sorter Imaging Facility Isotope Geochemistry Magnetic Resonance Mass Spectrometry Scientific Instrumentation & Machining Services Transmission Electron Microscope X-ray Crystallography Materials Characterization Training News Contact Policies Related Links Research Policies at Boston College VPR Organization Chart (PDF) Internal Grant Opportunities Sponsored Programs Overview Coronavirus Updates BC Research Policies & Federal Regulations University Research and Projects Policy Funding Assistance Documentation & Forms Institutional Profile PeopleSoft Financials Technology Transfer Overview Invention Disclosure Guidance and Education Faculty and Staff Students Partners and Industry Documents Frequently Asked Questions Research Security, Integrity and Compliance Overview Research Security Research Integrity Research Misconduct Export Controls Research Protections Overview Policies & Procedures Forms & Templates Protocol Submission Authorization Agreements Training International Research Animal Welfare Contact Postdoctoral Affairs ResearchMatch Related Links ORP Standard Operating Procedures document Policy for the Protection of Human Research Participants IRB Committee Bylaws Human Subjects Payment Policy Gift Card Distribution Log Close Contact Directory A to Z Listing Search VPR website Search BC.edu Find pages or people Search Close Close Apply Visit Give Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close Home About News News Tracking the opioid epidemic A new, penny-sized sensor developed by researchers from BC, BU, and Giner Labs uses wastewater to measure opioid use at the local level. Boston College to partner on study of hazards from plastics An international team will survey health risks posed across the continuum of plastic production, use, and disposal. BC study shows rise in adolescent handgun carrying Researchers at Boston College's Lynch School find uptick particularly among white, rural, and higher income teens. BC research report looks at Medicare and prescription drug costs A Center for Retirement Research brief explored the financial implications of Alzheimer's drug Aduhelm. U.S. Army Corps of Engineers awards $6.2M grant to BC research team A four-year partnership will examine water quality in watersheds and along coastlines in three U.S. regions. Predicting the future of COVID Boston College biologists develop a computational model to detect emerging Coronavirus strains. What happens when you ban sale of flavored tobacco products? BC researchers will study the effect of state policies on young people's use of the products. Exotic metals BC research reveals new insights on the unique properties and phenomena of 'kagome lattice' superconductors. Air pollution’s deadly toll BC Global Observatory uncovers air pollution's striking economic and human cost in Africa's first continent-wide survey. Liquid-like electron flow Boston College researchers reveal a novel metal where electrons flow with fluid-like dynamics. NSF grant will support deeper understanding of ocean ecosystems The $25 miillion grant will establish a new interdisciplinary center composed of universities, including Boston College, and marine biology labs. Study will probe link between work and well-being A $1.7 million grant supports two long-terms projects by BC School of Social Work researchers. Cottrell Plus SEED Award The award to physicist Ziqiang Wang recognizes singular exceptional endeavors and supports high impact research. Reconsidering early plant life New research from BC paleobotanist Paul Strother helps explain the evolution of land plants from freshwater algae. Spotty superconductivity A high-temp superconductor reveals new insights into how it enters the nematic state, a BC-led research team reports. Schiller Institute awards inaugural grants Fifteen grants will support collaborative projects by faculty and researchers from across Boston College. High-energy physics BC physicists' discovery of the 'layer Hall effect' in a unique material could lead to ultra-efficient electronic advances. Trust, but verify Machine learning systems need informed (i.e., human) oversight, say Carroll School of Management researchers. Peer pressure A BC-led study finds social networks play a powerful role in adoption of clean cooking fuel in India. "Coping with Defeat" New from political scientist Jonathan Laurence, the book addresses Sunni Islam, Roman Catholicism, and the modern state. Finding the 'missing link' The discovery of a billion-year-old fossil offers new insight into animal evolution, BC researcher says. Scientists detect Pleistocence permafrost thaw Permafrost thawed as recently as 400,000 years ago, when temperatures were not much higher than today, BC researchers report. Lynch School team scrutinizes teacher prep Researchers examine preparation at new graduate schools of education not affiliated with colleges or universities. Secondhand smoke heightens oral cancer risks Exposure could hike risk by 51 percent, researchers including BC Global Observatory on Pollution and Health co-director report. A new leaf A spinach leaf proves to be an edible scaffold for lab-grown meat, Professor of Engineering Glenn Gaudette reports. Research project to focus on urban Catholic schools The NCEA-Boston College collaboration will provide a vision for urban Catholic education for the next 20 years. A long look at logos New research from BC's Carroll School of Management shows logos are an indispensible tool for influencing consumers. The impact of trauma The BC School of Social Work initiative integrates teaching, fieldwork, and research into one holistic program. Seeds of gender salary gap sown early BC psychologist's study is first to identify a gap in negotiation style among children. BC physicist wins NSF CAREER Award Two National Science Foundation grants will support Brian Zhou's research and teaching in quantum science. For the birds BC biologist contributes to a milestone in avian research. $2.9 million grant for retirement research Social Security Administration award will fund projects including study of the pandemic's impact on older workers. The case for masks A BC Law prof's new book presents science-based advice for life during the pandemic. Identifying super polluters A new book analyzes the most egregious fossil-fueled power plant polluters across more than 160 nations. 'The babysitter of last resort' Early results of a pandemic study show kids' increased screen time can be an indicator of family distress. The toll of air pollution in India Pollution-related deaths numbered 1.67 million in a single year, according to a report led by BC researchers. 'Reserve system' for equitable COVID vaccine allocation BC economists and colleagues develop a mechanism to ensure vulnerable communities receive a fair share. Learning from man’s best friend BC's Canine Cognition Center studies how dogs think—and what that says about humans. Finding fault A BC professor exposes the hidden history of human-induced earthquakes. Formative education in action BC faculty research projects explore what it means to educate the whole person. New Calderwood University Professor in Islamic and Asian Art Emine Fetvaci is a prominent scholar and teacher whose research areas include Ottoman, Mughal, and Safavid art and architecture. Understanding pediatric celiac disease A Mathers Foundation grant will support research by BC biologist Emrah Altindis that links gut microbes to autoimmune diseases in children. Oceans in peril, humans at risk Widespread ocean pollution threatens the health of more than three billion people, an international scientific coalition led by BC researchers reports. Studying the ocean's history A BC researcher uses deep-sea corals to unlock secrets of past rapid carbon dioxide increase. What happens when child soldiers return home? Theresa Betancourt's research could help change the way we treat trauma in under-resourced regions of the world. Measuring the COVID effect BC researchers launch new KidsTalk app to study the pandemic's impact on children's language development. Building connections BC's Schiller Institute for Integrated Science and Society—a much-anticipated locus of interdisciplinary work—is developing its first initiatives. The 'gig' economy It showed promise. What went wrong? A new book by BC sociologist Juliet Schor sheds light on the sharing economy. Advancing Research and Scholarship Day This year's event focuses on teaching and research related to COVID-19. 'Migration Narratives' A new book co-authored by Lynch School Dean Stanton Wortham explores a Mexican migrant community’s growth in an American town. The politics of school reopenings A BC researcher finds local political conditions play a big role in whether K-12 public schools offer in-person classes this fall. Investment during lockdown A new app was a powerful trading tool for individuals stuck at home due to the pandemic, a BC finance professor reports. Studying remote work Sociologist Wen Fan's NSF-funded project examines the experience of remote work and the sustainability of the work-from-home model post-COVID. Inspired by nature Boston College chemists use a multi-catalyst system to convert greenhouse gas carbon dioxide into methanol. Incentives to give the gift of life Boston College economists Tayfun Sönmez and Utku Ünver work to increase life-changing plasma donations to coronavirus patients. A population in peril BC School of Social Work and Harvard Global Health Institute outline a crisis among asylum seekers at the U.S.- Mexico border. Pandemic quiets the earth BC researcher Alan Kafka and an international team reveal COVID-19 shutdowns markedly reduced Earth’s seismic “noise.” Closing the opportunity gap Lynch School researcher says "critical consciousness" can bridge disparity between low-income youth and more privileged peers. Dual honors for BC sociologist Sarah Babb's research earns awards from two sections of the American Sociological Association. A new spin on magnetism A new approach by BC researchers creates synthetic layered magnets with an unprecedented level of control over their magnetic properties. Grant supports DREME Network Heising-Simons Foundation funding supports the research and resource development initiative focused on math education for young children. Up in the air BC’s Global Observatory on Pollution and Health will study air pollution-related deaths and disease in Massachusetts. Air pollution interventions A global research report co-sponsored by BC's Schiller Institute identifies the top five actions to benefit both health and climate. A new approach to math learning U.S. Department of Education awards Lynch School team $1.4-million to support study of math learning for low-income students. APSA Pritchett Award winner Professor Ken Kersch is honored for his work on book on development of conservative constitutional thought. Positive youth development BC, Tufts researchers extend a landmark study of how adolescents thrive. The evolution of 'dad' A BC researcher and international colleagues reexamine the origins of human fatherhood. NSF CAREER award National Science Foundation funding will support study of the brain mechanisms that fuel recognition and understanding. In sickness and in filth Biases against the physically unclean extend to the sick, holding implications in the COVID-19 era, researchers find. Targeting infections BC scientists develop a prototype sensor to rapidly identify a bacterial species and its antibiotic-resistance. The Coronavirus equipment crisis Boston College and MIT economists develop a matching mechanism to help medical authorities ration crucial equipment. Pandemic policy analysis BC Law faculty track the quality of legislation and directives around the COVID-19 outbreak. Bottle drive A nursing faculty member is on a mission to improve care for infants and toddlers who struggle with feeding. Outstanding Book Award winners All nine collaborators honored by the American Association of Colleges for Teacher Education are Lynch School faculty or alumni. Banking on others Carroll School of Management professors propose a 'win-win' strategy for mainstream banks to thrive in 'banking deserts.' Paying a price for public access Making private business premises available to the public may brew problems, BC finance researchers find. BC ranked 10th worldwide in theology, divinity, & religious studies 2020 QS World University Rankings are based on academic and employer reputation and global research impact. Gun policies linked to workplace homicide rate States that toughened firearms policies saw declines in the rate of workplace homicides, according to BC researchers. Research grants for BC scientists Chemist Jia Niu receives an NSF CAREER Young Investigator Award; Mathers Foundation supports work by biologist Emrah Altindis. NSF grants for BC researchers Three Psychology and Neuroscience faculty members received awards for projects related to human learning and memory. Laura J. Steinberg to head Schiller Institute Internationally respected civil and environmental engineering scholar is named the inaugural Seidner Family Executive Director of the integrated science facility. An enriched conductor Professor of Physics David Broido and international colleagues report an advance in ultrahigh thermal conductivity. The 'impostor syndrome' Luxury consumption can be a double-edge sword, a Carroll School researcher reports. 'Best book' award BC historian Penelope Ismay receives a major honor for 'Trust Among Strangers: Friendly Societies in Modern Britain.' Love, lies, and money Financial infidelity is yet another peril facing modern relationships, researchers say. International Security Studies award BC political scientist Lindsey O'Rourke is honored for her book on covert regime change. Arab American health A study led by a Connell School of Nursing researcher looks at health behaviors and outcomes across three generations of Arab immigrants. Unearthing history Boston College researchers pinpoint the source of the unique chemical composition of volcanic rocks. Alpha Sigma Nu Book Awards Two publications by Boston College educators are recognized by the honor society of Jesuit colleges and universities. NSF CAREER Award Assistant Professor of Chemistry Matthias Waegele is recognized for his research toward cleaner energy sources. $2.3M New Innovator Award BC chemist Jia Niu is recognized by NIH’s High-Risk, High-Reward Research Program, which funds highly innovative work proposed by extraordinarily creative scientists. Energy Research Award BC physicist and quantum materials researcher Ilija Zeljkovic is selected for a U.S. Department of Energy program. Public schools and immigration A study led by Lynch School Associate Professor Rebecca Lowenhaupt will study how educators interpret and respond to rapidly changing policies. 2020 Divergent Award for Excellence Lynch School Assistant Professor Jon Wargo is recognized for research in 21st century literacies. Why we help The brain’s pathways to imagination may hold the key to altruistic behavior, Boston College researchers find. Solving a vexing vortex BC physicists proffer a new theory toward an advance in quantum computing. Targeting cancer An international research team uncovers a drug and diet pairing that could fight a deadly brain cancer. Decrypting ICOs Are they a game-changing disruption of the global financial system—or not? A BC Carroll School researcher weighs in. Our polluted planet Led by acclaimed epidemiologist and public health champion Philip Landrigan ’63, a new BC program takes on a global killer. Opposites attract They may drive each other crazy, but they can still make mutually satisfying decisions, a Carroll School researcher finds. Back To Top Back To Top Vice Provost for Research Boston College, Waul House 270 Hammond Street Chestnut Hill, MA 02467 vproffice@bc.edu 140 Commonwealth Avenue Chestnut Hill, MA 02467 Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College