Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Department of Political Science Undergraduate Graduate BA/MA JD/MA Advising Internships People News & Events Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact JD/MA Program Resources Contact Admissions Requirements Law Courses Required Law Electives Other Take Action Alumni and Friends Make a Gift to Political Science Registered Student Organizations / Clubs Contact Follow Us Online Facebook Home Political Science JD/MA JD/MA Program Over the years, both undergraduate and graduate students at the University of Memphis have requested a dual program for the Law J.D. and the Political Science M.A. degree programs. The advantage of such a program is that credit towards degrees in these career-related disciplines can be earned simultaneously if admissions and curricula are carefully structured. Many reputable institutions elsewhere, such as Yale, Duke, Syracuse, Tulane, and Cincinnati, have such programs. None of them, however, is close to Memphis, so adding the program provides a competitive advantage in the Mid-South. Requirements for the program are below. Basically, students may begin the M.A. in Political Science and then, pending separate admission, attend Law School where they may apply 16 credit hours (see below) to finish the M.A. Alternatively, they may first begin Law School and, pending separate admission, follow with the M.A. degree and similarly apply 16 hours of Law School credit to the M.A. Contact This is a wonderful opportunity for students. If you have any questions, please contact Dr. Derefe Chevannes, POLS Graduate Recruitment Coordinator or Dr. Matthias Kaelberer, Department Chair. To view a comprehensive brochure about the program, please click the image below. Dual MA-JD Program A. Program Admission: Admission to the dual program will require separate admission to each program. However, for applications to the joint program, the Political Science Department will accept LSAT scores in lieu of the GRE. Students are admitted into each program separately; completion of one degree is not contingent upon completion of both. B. Program Requirements: 1. Dual Credit Students may earn up to a maximum of sixteen hours of dual credit for law courses taken at the law school. The remaining hours toward the M.A. in Political Science must be taken in Political Science. The following courses will qualify for both the J.D. and M.A. in Political Science: Law Courses Required at Law School Constitutional Law 4 hours, Criminal Law 3 hours, Criminal Procedure I 3 hours Law School Electives Administrative Law 3 hours, Criminal Procedure II 2 hours, Federal Courts 3 hours, Civil Rights 3 hours, Constitutional Law Seminar 2 hours, Tennessee Con Law 2 hours, Jurisprudence 2 hours, Public International Law 3 hours, Comparative Law 2 hours, Immigration Law 3 hours, Environmental Law 3 hours Other Requirements For students in the dual program, their first year of law school must include only classes that are part of the J.D. program. With the above exceptions, all the normal requirements for admission and graduation for a J.D. and for an M.A. in Political Science apply. Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/12/21 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.