Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu College of Health Sciences About Undergraduate Graduate Certificates & Continuing Ed Students Research Centers & Institutes News & Events Contact Us Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact Graduate Graduate Admissions MS Exercise, Sport & Movement Science MS Health Promotion MS Exercise Nutrition MS Physical Education Teacher Education MS Environmental Nutrition MS Nutrition Science MS Clinical Nutrition AboutAdmissionsMS & DI Combined ProgramResourcesStudentsPreceptors PhD Applied Physiology & Neuromechanics About Admissions Applied Biomechanics (APBI) APBI Faculty Applied Physiology & Nutrition (APHN) APHN Faculty Take Action Find a Program that Drives You Meet our Faculty Schedule an Advising Appointment Contact Us Follow Us Online InstagramFacebooktwitterYoutubeLinkedIn Home College of Health Sciences Graduate Graduate Admissions Graduate Admissions Master's Degrees Major: Health Studies Concentrations: Exercise Nutrition (online only) Exercise, Sport & Movement Sciences Health Promotion (online only) Physical Education Teacher Education (online only) Major: Nutrition Concentrations: Clinical Nutrition Environmental Nutrition (online only) Nutrition Science Doctoral Degree PhD - Applied Physiology & Neuromechanics (Beginning Fall 2022) Concentrations: Applied Biomechanics Applied Physiology & Nutrition How To Apply University Application For admission into a degree program, you should allow a reasonable amount of time for necessary documents to be received (approximately three to six weeks). International applicants should allow at least four months for the application process. Applicants are urged to apply early to ensure full consideration. All determinations concerning the classification of a student as in-state or out-of-state for fee purposes are made in the Graduate Admissions office. If, for any reason, there is a question about a state residency classification, you are responsible for requesting a review of your residency status BEFORE classes begin. Complete an Application for Residency Classification and submit it to Graduate Admissions (FedEx Institute of Technology Building, Suite 201) for review. Application for Residency Classification (PDF) Guidelines for Classification of Students for Fee Paying Purposes Steps for applying: First, view College of Health Sciences admission requirements, test score requirements, application deadlines, etc. Use our electronic admission applications to apply to Graduate School, file for readmission or to change your current degree program or student level. (Application fees for initial admission are $35 application fee for domestic students and $60 for international students). Applicants whose highest degree is from a foreign university may be required to have your credentials evaluated by any credentialing agency listed on the National Association of Credential Evaluation Services website. Read the Deadlines and Required Documents below before entering the application portal. *Students interested in the Clinical Nutrition graduate program should follow their program admission guidelines. Please do not complete a UofM graduate application without first applying through DICAS. APPLY FOR MASTER'S PROGRAM > APPLY FOR PHD PROGRAM > Deadlines For optimal consideration: Fall Semester admission materials should be submitted by May 1 International students' materials should be submitted by April 1 Spring Semester admission materials should be submitted by October 1 International students' materials should be submitted by September 1 Official deadline for Fall: August 10 Official deadline for Spring: December 10 *Students interested in the Clinical Nutrition graduate program should follow their program admission guidelines. Please do not complete a UofM graduate application without first applying through DICAS. Required Documents 1. Transcripts » How to send your official transcripts electronically UofM Graduate School Transcript Processing Center PO Box 9205 Watertown, MA 02471 2. Test Scores » How to send your test scores Note: If you are not able to take the GRE/PRAXIS II due to COVID-19, we will waive this requirement from your application. If you have already taken the GRE/PRAXIS II, feel free to submit your scores through your Liason portal. 3. A Current Curriculum Vitae/ Resume Upload to your Liaison application portal 4. Two Letters of Recommendation Upload by recommenders using Letters by Liaison Letters should ideally be from a former professor or by others who can accurately address the applicant's academic performance and/or ability to successfully complete graduate studies. Note: The curriculum vitae and letters of recommendation are not needed for those applying only for the graduate certificate in Sport Nutrition and Dietary Supplementation. 5. Personal Statement Upload to your Liaison application portal Provide a brief statement (maximum one page, single-spaced) describing: your interest in pursuing graduate work at the University of Memphis (e.g., how our program will benefit you; please specify your particular area(s) of research interest). your professional goals. the suitability of your academic preparation for graduate study in your chosen area. your prior professional experiences. What to Expect Application Acknowledgement Following completion and successful submission of the online application, you will receive an immediate confirmation of receipt. One to three business days after submitting your application (online or paper) you will receive an official acknowledgement message. The acknowledgement message will arrive in your personal email account (if provided on the application) or by standard mail. The acknowledgement message will provide you information on how your application is being processed, including term of application and student level. This information is important for you to know in the event something is incorrect on the application – you can contact Admissions to correct it. Please note: Once an application has been submitted online, you will be unable to make corrections or updates yourself. You will also receive your University of Memphis assigned ID in the acknowledgement message. This ID is referred to as your student ID, Banner ID, or U number. The ID is important as you move through the admissions/enrollment process. This acknowledgment message should not be confused with an offer of acceptance. Graduate Application Review Following the initial review of your application by an admissions analyst, you will be notified by the Office of Admissions of any additional documentation that may be needed in order to continue processing your application. You will receive this notification in your personal email account (if provided on the application) or by standard mail. As a graduate applicant some of the most common documentation requests include: all previous college transcripts, and GRE/MAT/GMAT test scores. Only documentation received directly from an issuing school, agency or institution will be accepted as official – copies and hand delivered documents are not accepted. The Office of Admissions will continue to notify you of outstanding documents throughout the application process. However, if there is a long period of absent respondent communication (60 days), your file will be held in an inactive status until we hear from you again. After receiving and reviewing all requested documentation, an admissions analyst will compile and forward your file to the academic department of the declared major for review and decision. After the department has determined your admissibility, the decision will be communicated to the Office of Admissions. You will receive notification directly from the Office of Admissions. Graduate Admission Decision Following the review and decision by the College of Health Sciences, the Office of Admissions will notify you of the admission decision. You will receive notification in your personal email account (if provided on the application) and by standard mail. If accepted, your notification will include a 20-digit student account activation code that you will need to activate your University of Memphis student account through the iam.memphis.edu identity management system. It is imperative you activate this as soon as possible. Activation of your student account will enable your University of Memphis email account and grant you access to the myMemphis portal. After Acceptance Welcome to the College of Health Sciences! To Do: Graduate School Requirements After Acceptance College of Health Sciences Graduate Advising Registration UofM ID Card Parking Fee Payment Office Links: Registrar Tuition and Fees Office of Financial Aid Student Health Center College of Health Sciences APPLY FOR MASTER'S PROGRAM > APPLY FOR PHD PROGRAM > Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 4/26/22 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.