Skip to main content Skip to main navigation School of Education Baylor Center for School Leadership Menu About BCSL Aims & Approach BCSL Team The Copple Family BCSL Advisory Board What Educators are saying about the BCSL Events Resources Academies & Institutes Collective Leadership Improvement Communities Graduate Programs MA in School Leadership More Baylor SOE Graduate Programs Blog Collaborations School of Education Dept. of Educational Leadership MA in School Leadership EdD in K-12 Leadership MA - School Leadership Sign Up Make a Gift Academy '22 Baylor Center for School Leadership Building Better Schools by Doing Better Work, Together The Baylor Center for School Leadership exists to equip Christians for collective leadership that catalyzes excellence in faith-based, independent, and public schools. At the Baylor Center for School Leadership you’ll find an open invitation to enter into the work of education with other educators who find their identity in Christ. Come join us as we partner with the strongest schools around the country to work on adaptive goals that produce the best outcomes for students, teachers, and administrators. Explore Academies and Institutes Collective Leadership Improvement Communities Graduate Programs What Others Are Saying about BCSL The Center helped me grow professionally by linking arms with outstanding Christian educators across the country. The work we did energized my team and affirmed that we are on the right path. Karla Lowe Elementary Principal Des Moines Christian School, Des Moines, IA I will put in my recommendation that the VLA will be well worth your time. Very practical sessions that will give you a chance to build upon the good lessons you prepared during distance learning and clarify your goals for the upcoming year which will likely look different from a typical school year. Mike DiNardo Upper School Principal Minnehaha Academy, Minneapolis, MN The Virtual Learning Academy hosted was well-designed, thoughtful, and a good way to experience professional development in a remote learning world. I think that not only were the sessions helpful, but the design of the meetings was exemplary in helping me think through all the possibilities for teaching and learning and caring for students. Jeff Horner Assessment and Curriculum Coordinator Whitefield Academy, Smyrna, GA The BCSL's Virtual Learning Academy was both informative and engaging. It provided time and space for Christian school leaders to consider how to plan and care for our school communities in these unprecedented times. Thor Benson, PhD Instructional Leader Southwest Christian High School, Chaska, MN Events See More Events Jun 6 2022 Christian Educators Diversity Alliance Symposium (ends 06/08/2022) Jun 13 2022 The Academy for Transformational Leadership (ends 06/14/2022) News Read More News Jan. 13, 2022 BCSL Offers “Culture of Joy” Workshop for Educators BCSL is hosting an afternoon workshop, combined with a Baylor men’s basketball ticket, for teachers, principals, superintendents, and other school or district leaders. The workshop will be Tuesday, Jan. 25, from 1-5 p.m., and the registration deadline is Monday, Jan. 17. Read More Feb. 2, 2021 Baylor School of Education Center Updates Name Baylor School of Education’s Center for Christian Education has changed its name to the Baylor Center for School Leadership (BCSL) to better reflect its mission to serve school leaders. Read More Dec. 11, 2020 Connecting Through Conversation May we strive to be leaders who others naturally endear themselves to because of the honest, open, and meaningful conversations we refuse to let die. Read More Dec. 11, 2020 Trust - Essential for Great Schools When trust is eroded, we begin to see the way systems, organizations, and nations decay. Many of the challenges we face in education are due in large part to a lack of trust. Read More Baylor Center for School Leadership Physical Address: Marrs McLean Science Building 1214 S. Fourth Waco, TX 76706 Office: 134.02 Mailing Address: One Bear Place #97215 Waco, TX 76798-7215 (254) 710-3111 Matt_M_Thomas@baylor.edu School of EducationDepartment of Educational LeadershipMA in School Leadership General Information Colleges, Schools, Libraries & Research Admissions Administration Gateways For... About Baylor Anonymous Reporting Athletics Ask Baylor Bookstore Calendar Campus Map Directory Give Light Give to Baylor Illuminate Mental Health Resources News Pro Futuris Report It Search Social Media Title IX Baylor Libraries College of Arts & Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work George W. Truett Theological Seminary Graduate School Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Louise Herrington School of Nursing Research at Baylor University Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Engineering & Computer Science School of Music More Academics Undergraduate Admissions goBAYLOR Graduate Admissions Baylor Law School Admissions Social Work Graduate Programs George W. Truett Theological Seminary Admissions Online Graduate Professional Education Virtual Tour Visit Campus Annual Fire Safety and Security Notice Athletics Human Resources Marketing and Communications Office of General Counsel Office of the President Office of the Provost Operations, Finance & Administration Senior Administration Student Life University Advancement Baylor Alumni Faculty & Staff Online Graduate Professional Education Parents Prospective Faculty & Staff Prospective Students Students Copyright © Baylor® University. All rights reserved. Legal Disclosures. Baylor University • Waco, Texas 76798 • 1-800-229-5678 About BCSL Aims & Approach BCSL Team The Copple Family BCSL Advisory Board What Educators are saying about the BCSL Events Resources Academies & Institutes Collective Leadership Improvement Communities Graduate Programs MA in School Leadership More Baylor SOE Graduate Programs Blog Collaborations School of Education Dept. of Educational Leadership MA in School Leadership EdD in K-12 Leadership MA - School Leadership Sign Up Make a Gift Academy '22