Skip to main content Skip to main navigation Student Financial Services Menu About Leadership Contact Us Search the Site Events News Billing & Payment View & Pay Bill Student Login Authorized User Login Payment Due Dates Financial Aid Refunds Authorize Access to Bill Understanding Financial Settlement Undergraduate, Graduate, and Seminary Law New Student Orientation Guide - Undergraduate New Student Orientation Guide - Graduate Online Programs Trimester Programs Quarter Programs Online MBA Master of Laws (LL.M.) Payment Plans Refunds Add/Drop Refunds Cancellation/Withdrawal Refunds Direct Deposit Title IV Credit Authorizations International Payments E-Bill System Security Financial Aid & Your Bill FAQs Resources Forms E-Bill System BearWeb Student Financial Literacy Dining Services Housing Parking Services ID Cards Center for Global Engagement Student Success Center Education Tax Benefits Form 1098-T Private College 529 Plan Loan Collections Student Loan Repayment 101 Seminar Faculty & Staff Emergency Relief Funds (CARES Act, HEERF II, ARP/HEERF III) Student Financial Services Appointments Wintermester HEOA Student Consumer Information Student Conduct Code Financial Aid Consumer Information Tuition & Costs Tuition & Fees Undergraduate Graduate Online MBA MBA, CSD, MSW Law Seminary Summer Guaranteed Tuition Option Tuition Refund Insurance 2022-2023 Tuition Cost Online Programs Meal Plans Housing Optional Fees Affordability Planner Net Price Calculator Student Financial Aid Applying for Financial Aid Cost of Attendance (COA) Types of Financial Aid Online Graduate Student Aid Scholarships Grants Work-Study Affordability Planner Maintaining Eligibility Drug Convictions and Eligibility Satisfactory Academic Progress Award Guide Over Awards Financial Aid Timeline Graduate Student Financial Aid Timeline Helpful Links Financial Aid Videos - Get Answers 24/7 Videos - Baylor Financial Aid Return of Federal Funds Types of Financial Aid - Quick Chart Financial Aid Requirements FAQs Scholarships & Loans Scholarships Loans Baylor>Student Financial Services>Resources>Education Tax Benefits>Form 1098-T Form 1098-T 2021 Form 1098-T available in the E-Bill System by January 31, 2022 2021 1098-Ts will be mailed or available in the E-Bill System by January 31, 2022. Students are encouraged to consent to electronic delivery and, as needed, grant 1098-T access to Authorized Users. If you paid qualified expenses during the year, you may be eligible for a federal education tax deduction or credit, depending on your income (or your family’s income, if you are a dependent) and enrollment status. The Baylor Student Accounts Office is unable to provide individual tax advice; we can only confirm and explain what we have reported. For more information about your ability to claim a tax deduction or tax credit, contact a tax professional. The IRS Publication 970 is a good resource for additional information on this topic. Social Security Numbers: The IRS requires the student's Social Security Number (SSN) be printed on 1098-T forms. The Baylor Office of the Registrar processes all SSN and Individual Taxpayer Identification Number (ITIN) changes. To update your SSN or ITIN on record, provide your SSN/ITIN securely via BearWeb. (Click Student Academic Services > Student Records > Update Missing SSN) Please note, if you are a non-citizen and you do not have a SSN/ITIN, no action is required. If in the future, you are assigned a SSN/ITIN, you are then required to provide the information to Baylor. Frequently Asked Questions about the Form 1098-T Q1: What is the IRS Form 1098-T? A1: The 1098-T is a statement that colleges and universities are required to issue to each student who is enrolled and for whom a reportable transaction is made. The 1098-T provides tax information to both the taxpayer and the IRS which may be useful in determining eligibility for tax credits and/or deductions. Either the student or the person who claims the student as a dependent may be eligible for tax credits and/or deductions on his/her individual income tax return for qualified tuition and related expenses. Please note the 1098-T may not provide all of the information you need to determine eligibility; you will also need your personal financial records. Eligibility for any tax benefit depends upon your individual facts and circumstances. The University cannot provide tax advice. Please consult the IRS or a tax professional to find out more about education credits and deductions and your eligibility. Q2:Is the 1098-T available electronically? A2: Students and authorized users (if the student has granted access) can access to view or print 1098-T forms online through the E-Bill System. Step-by-step instructions for accessing the 1098-T electronically can found here. Q3: I have graduated from Baylor or am no longer a student and no longer have access to the E-Bill System, how can I access my 1098-T? A3: If a student no longer has access to the E-Bill System or the Authorized User is unable to view the 1098-T form in the E-Bill System, then the student will need to visit the Heartland ECSI website by clicking here. The 1098-T is prepared by Heartland ECSI, and their website allows former students to view both the current year’s form and those for prior years. Q4: What is reported in Box 1? A4: For tax years 2018 and later, Box 1 shows payments received for Qualified Tuition Related Expenses (QTRE) during the calendar year. Payments from any source (scholarships, loans, personal payments) are counted with the exception of scholarships that are designated to pay non-qualified expenses (i.e., room, meals). Payments are reduced by any refunds issued during the year. Q5: Why is the amount in Box 1 less than the amount I paid during the calendar year? A5: For tax years 2018 and later, in accordance with the IRS guidelines governing the 1098-T calculations, the amount in Box 1 is the lesser of the total QTRE billed, including any unpaid QTRE from a prior year, OR the total amount of payments received. All student account information is available in Baylor's E-Bill system at www.baylor.edu/ebill. Q6: What charges are considered qualified expenses? A6: For the purposes of 1098-T reporting, qualified expenses include “tuition, fees, and course materials required for a student to be enrolled at or attend” Baylor. Excluded from qualified expenses are charges for fees, room, meals, insurance, medical expenses, transportation, and similar personal expenses. For the purposes of claiming a tax credit, qualified expenses may include amounts paid for required books and supplies that were not paid to Baylor; refer to Instructions for Form 8863. For the purposes of a Qualified Tuition Program (529 plan), qualified higher education expenses could in some circumstances include room, meals, or the purchase of a computer; refer to IRS Publication 970. Q7: Why don’t the amounts on Form 1098-T equal the amounts I paid to Baylor during the year? A7: There are potentially many reasons for this discrepancy. First, the amount in Box 1 only represents amounts paid for qualified tuition and related expenses (QTRE) and does not include payments made for room and board, insurance, health service fees, or parking which, though important, are not considered mandatory education expenses for tax purposes. Secondly, Form 1098-T reports amounts the student paid in a certain year, and the pay date does not necessarily correspond to the dates the classes were attended. For example, tuition for the Spring semester is typically billed in December so a student may have paid tuition for the Spring semester in 2020 despite the fact that classes didn’t start until 2021. Q8: Why is Box 2 blank? A8: For tax years prior to 2017, the IRS gave institutions the option to report payments received (Box 1), or amounts billed (Box 2) for qualified tuition and related expenses during the calendar year. Due to a change to institutional reporting requirements under federal law, beginning with tax year 2018, the University must report in Box 1 the amount of QTRE paid during the year. Therefore, Box 2 reporting is no longer available for tax years 2018 and later. Q9: I am a graduate student and I received fellowship payments. Where is my fellowship reported on my Form 1098-T? A9: For Form 1098-T purposes, fellowships are considered financial aid and will be reported in Box 5 as a (scholarships, grants, fellowships). Form 1098-T reports activity occurring in the calendar year. Q10: I am a graduate fellow who is entitled to receive health or dental insurance at a reduced rate. How is this reported on my Form 1098-T? A10: Since insurance (both medical and dental) is not considered to be a qualified tuition and related expense, this expense is not reported on your Form 1098-T. However, if the University subsidizes the cost of your insurance then the University subsidy is reported in Box 5 of the Form 1098-T. Q11: The information on my 1098-T appears incorrect. I need different information to do my taxes. A11: While your 1098-T has been prepared in accordance with IRS regulations and guidance, it is still an imperfect tax form and may not provide all of the information you need to claim a tax deduction or credit. See A12 below for instructions for viewing your account details from the E-Bill System. Further, the amounts reported on your 1098-T are based on the calendar year in which entries are posted to the student account. As a result, there can be timing differences that do not necessarily have tax consequences. If you have any questions about what to do with the information reported to you, please consider consulting a tax professional. Q12: Since Baylor is closed from Christmas Eve through New Year’s Day, how are payments received during the break counted for 1098-T purposes? A12: Since our offices are closed from Christmas Eve through New Year's Day, students are strongly encouraged to submit all payments online via the E-Bill system to ensure payments are posted to the student account immediately. Any mailed payments will not be processed until after our office reopens after the New Year and may be subject to late fees. Q13: Where can I find detail regarding the charges and payments on my account? A13: In the E-Bill System, select Account Activity under My Account to view all account activity by term. Users can search, sort, and export as needed. To produce a report of payments, select Payment History under My Account and choose a date range to view. For additional information, contact the Student Accounts Office. Q14: Does the 1098-T have to be attached to my tax return? A14: No. There is no requirement to attach the 1098-T to your tax return. Q15: Will a copy of the 1098-T be sent to the IRS? Q15: Yes. Internal Revenue Code §6050S requires educational institutions to file information returns to assist taxpayers and the Internal Revenue Service in determining eligibility for educational tax credits. The annual deadline for the University to file the required tax information electronically with the IRS is March 31, although data may be transmitted earlier as circumstances allow. Q16: What information is included in Box 5? A16: The reporting rules for Box 5 have not changed. Box 5 continues to include all scholarship payments (related to any term) which were processed during the calendar year. If you believe a scholarship reported in Box 5 was used to pay qualified expenses but was not reported in Box 1, please refer to your billing statements and/or account details in the E-Bill System for additional documentation, and, if needed, consult a tax professional. Q17: What are the adjustments in Boxes 4 and 6? A17: Box 4 of Form 1098-T reports adjustments made to qualified tuition and related expenses reported on a prior year Form 1098-T. The amount reported in Box 4 represents a reduction in tuition billed during a prior calendar year. Box 6 of Form 1098-T reports adjustments made to scholarships or grants reported on a prior year Form 1098-T in Box 5. The amount reported in Box 6 represents a reduction in scholarships or grants reported for a prior calendar year. For information regarding 1098-Ts for 2017 and earlier, click here. Resources Forms E-Bill System BearWeb Student Financial Literacy Dining Services Housing Parking Services ID Cards Center for Global Engagement Student Success Center Education Tax Benefits Form 1098-T Private College 529 Plan Loan Collections Student Loan Repayment 101 Seminar Faculty & Staff Emergency Relief Funds (CARES Act, HEERF II, ARP/HEERF III) Student Financial Services Appointments Wintermester HEOA Student Consumer Information Student Conduct Code Financial Aid Consumer Information VERIFICATION PAY YOUR BILL CONTACT US LOCATION Limited Access to Clifton Robinson Tower Financial Aid, Student Accounts and One Stop (first floor) are open to walk-in visitors, however we encourage students to reach us via phone, contact us form or virtual office visit while a construction project occurs at the Clifton Robinson Tower. Parking is very limited. More information about how to contact us can be found here. Show More General Information Colleges, Schools, Libraries & Research Admissions Administration Gateways For... About Baylor Anonymous Reporting Athletics Ask Baylor Bookstore Calendar Campus Map Directory Give Light Give to Baylor Illuminate Mental Health Resources News Pro Futuris Report It Search Social Media Title IX Baylor Libraries College of Arts & Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work George W. Truett Theological Seminary Graduate School Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Louise Herrington School of Nursing Research at Baylor University Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Engineering & Computer Science School of Music More Academics Undergraduate Admissions goBAYLOR Graduate Admissions Baylor Law School Admissions Social Work Graduate Programs George W. Truett Theological Seminary Admissions Online Graduate Professional Education Virtual Tour Visit Campus Annual Fire Safety and Security Notice Athletics Human Resources Marketing and Communications Office of General Counsel Office of the President Office of the Provost Operations, Finance & Administration Senior Administration Student Life University Advancement Baylor Alumni Faculty & Staff Online Graduate Professional Education Parents Prospective Faculty & Staff Prospective Students Students Student Financial Services Student Financial Accounts One Bear Place #97048 Waco, TX 76798-7048 Student Financial Aid One Bear Place #97028 Waco, TX 76798-7028 Student Financial Accounts: 254.710.2311 Financial Aid: 254.710.2611 Contact Us GDPR Privacy Notice Copyright © Baylor® University. All rights reserved. Legal Disclosures. Baylor University • Waco, Texas 76798 • 1-800-229-5678 About Leadership Contact Us Search the Site Events News Billing & Payment View & Pay Bill Student Login Authorized User Login Payment Due Dates Financial Aid Refunds Authorize Access to Bill Understanding Financial Settlement Undergraduate, Graduate, and Seminary Law New Student Orientation Guide - Undergraduate New Student Orientation Guide - Graduate Online Programs Trimester Programs Quarter Programs Online MBA Master of Laws (LL.M.) Payment Plans Refunds Add/Drop Refunds Cancellation/Withdrawal Refunds Law & LL.M. Cancellation & Withdrawal Policies Direct Deposit Title IV Credit Authorizations International Payments E-Bill System Security Financial Aid & Your Bill FAQs Resources Forms E-Bill System BearWeb Student Financial Literacy Dining Services Housing Parking Services ID Cards Center for Global Engagement Student Success Center Education Tax Benefits Form 1098-T Private College 529 Plan Loan Collections Student Loan Repayment 101 Seminar Faculty & Staff Emergency Relief Funds (CARES Act, HEERF II, ARP/HEERF III) Student Financial Services Appointments Wintermester HEOA Student Consumer Information Student Conduct Code Financial Aid Consumer Information Tuition & Costs Tuition & Fees Undergraduate Graduate Online MBA MBA, CSD, MSW Law LL.M. Tuition & Fees Seminary Summer Seminary Summer Guaranteed Tuition Option Tuition Refund Insurance 2022-2023 Tuition Cost Online Programs Meal Plans Housing Optional Fees Affordability Planner Net Price Calculator Student Financial Aid Applying for Financial Aid Cost of Attendance (COA) Types of Financial Aid Online Graduate Student Aid Scholarships Departmental Scholarship Grants Work-Study Affordability Planner Maintaining Eligibility Drug Convictions and Eligibility Satisfactory Academic Progress Award Guide Over Awards Financial Aid Timeline Graduate Student Financial Aid Timeline Helpful Links Financial Aid Videos - Get Answers 24/7 Videos - Baylor Financial Aid Federal Aid, Work-Study, And Alternative Loans Financial Aid Application Process Scholarship Options International Student Aid Return of Federal Funds Types of Financial Aid - Quick Chart Financial Aid Requirements FAQs Scholarships & Loans Scholarships Loans