Skip to main content The University of Texas at Austin Menu Header Helpful Links Current Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Families & Visitors Search Search Maps Directory UT Direct Give Apply Search Search About Academics Academic Experience Areas of Study Extended Campus Cockrell School of Engineering College of Education College of Fine Arts College of Liberal Arts College of Natural Sciences College of Pharmacy Dell Medical School Graduate School Jackson School of Geosciences LBJ School of Public Affairs McCombs School of Business Moody College of Communication School of Architecture School of Information School of Law School of Nursing Steve Hicks School of Social Work School of Undergraduate Studies Admissions & Aid Be a Longhorn What Starts Here Changes the World. It's more than a motto. It’s what we prove each and every day, as Texas and its Exes advance discovery and innovation on a global stage. Join us. Undergraduate Admissions Graduate Admissions School of Law Admissions Dell Medical School Admissions Tuition & Costs Financial Aid Campus Visits Campus & Community Explore Your Passions Thousands of events, from concerts and film screenings to readings and lectures. More than 1,100 student organizations. Incredible facilities and special attractions. And it's all set in the heart of one of the world's greatest cities. Welcome home. Arts & Culture Campus Destinations Entrepreneurship & Innovation Health & Wellness Housing & Dining Life in Austin Report Misconduct Safety & Security Student Involvement Longhorn Resources Research Change the World Longhorns are passionate about making the world a better place, united by the belief that creating and sharing knowledge can save lives and transform society. Come explore our vast research enterprise — or better yet, create, innovate and discover with us. Overview Student Research Units & Centers Off-Campus Research Sites Libraries Experts Guide Athletics News Home Campus & Community : Entrepreneurship & Innovation Entrepreneurship & Innovation As a top-notch research institution devoted to changing the world, The University of Texas at Austin believes it's critical to foster the entrepreneurial spirit that runs deep in all of our colleges and schools. And that's why we've found dozens of ways to educate our student entrepreneurs, encourage local startup community engagement, support tech commercialization, and serve as an intellectual hub for pioneering research and enterprise. Our cutting-edge programs, resources, events and opportunities have helped to establish UT Austin as an essential engine of the booming innovation and knowledge economy, and we're proud to be at the forefront of the intersection between higher education, innovation and entrepreneurship. Kendra Scott Women's Entrepreneurial Leadership Institute The Kendra Scott Women's Entrepreneurial Leadership Institute works to strengthen the next generation of courageous, creative female leaders who will change the world — in business and beyond. Learn more Longhorn Startup Enterprising program led by award-winning Professor of Innovation Bob Metcalfe, Entrepreneur-in-Residence Ben Dyer, and Specialist of Computer Science Joshua Baer, fostering interdisciplinary startup innovation for undergrads, faculty and tech leaders. Learn more Austin Technology Incubator Helping startups compete successfully in the capital markets through an extensive network of mentors, advisers and investors. Learn more IC² Institute Linking technology, entrepreneurship and education to advance the theory and practice of entrepreneurial wealth creation. Learn more Herb Kelleher Center for Entrepreneurship Developing new knowledge, successful entrepreneurs and visionary innovative leaders. Great ideas are worth exploring, and we strive to be a place where those ideas — and the people who conceive them — can flourish. Learn more Office of Technology Commercialization Connecting faculty innovators and inventors with commercialization investors and partners. Learn more Programs for Undergraduate Students Freshman Founders The GAMMA Program Innovation, Creativity & Entrepreneurship BDP Social Entrepreneurship & Non-Profits BDP Entrepreneurship Minor Programs for Graduate and Professional Students Entrepreneurship & Community Development Clinic Texas Venture Labs Master's in Technology Commercialization Portfolio Program in Arts and Cultural Management and Entrepreneurship Social Innovation Intiative Programs for All Students Student Entrepreneur Acceleration and Launch Organizations and Groups Longhorn Entrepreneurship Agency McCombs Entrepreneur Society Mobile App Development Roden Leadership Program More Resources Austin Technology Incubator Startup Library Center for Global Innovation and Entrepreneurship (CGIE) Texas Innovation Center The Marvin and Ellie Selig Center of Excellence in Entrepreneurship Latest Tweets IC² Institute IC2Institute Congratulations to Emilio Cantu on his graduation! Emilio has been part of our team for two years as he completed h… https://t.co/NzwggkMr2Q 4 ds ago Reply2 Retweet Star Texas Venture Labs TXVentureLabs Don't miss your chance to be selected as a TVL Startup Fellow for our school-year cohort! Get hands-on experience… https://t.co/pBpcnpPrUw 6 ds ago Reply2 Retweet Star IC² Institute IC2Institute Team Corsicana used "diligence and community-conscious thinking" to win $25,000 in this year's March Economic Madne… https://t.co/ea5DJFoUAp 1 week ago Reply2 Retweet Star IC² Institute IC2Institute A BBR study of human trafficking in Texas estimated that workers lose about $600 million a year from trafficking ex… https://t.co/xGF4ytlrJD 1 week ago Reply2 Retweet StarView all tweets Connect with UT Austin Subscribe to our newsletter Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkedIn YouTube Starts With You Footer Helpful Links Access Course Syllabi and Instructor CVs Campus Carry Contact Counseling and Mental Health Diversity and Inclusion Action Plan Diversity, Equity, and Disability Resources ♿ Emergency Information Fraud, Waste, or Abuse Hazing Prevention and Response HEERF/CARES Act Compliance Jobs Online Institutional Resumes Public Forum On Campus Site Policies State of Texas Statewide Search Texas Homeland Security Texas Veterans Portal Title IX Reporting (Sexual Misconduct) UT System Web Accessibility Policy Web Privacy Policy © The University of Texas at Austin 2022