Search | Directories | Reference Tools UW Home > Discover UW > Student Guide UW Bothell Course Descriptions UW Tacoma Course Descriptions Glossary SCHOOL OF PUBLIC HEALTH SCHOOL OF PUBLIC HEALTH NUTRITIONAL SCIENCE Detailed course offerings (Time Schedule) are available for Spring Quarter 2022 Summer Quarter 2022 Autumn Quarter 2022 NUTR 141 Introduction to Foods (5) NW Examines how foods are used by different people and cultures to deliver nutrients and energy. Explores the evolution of the global food supply, food preparation techniques, food patterns, and eating habits as they relate to diets, nutrition, and personal and public health. View course details in MyPlan: NUTR 141 NUTR 200 Nutrition for Today (4) NW Examines the role of nutrition in health, wellness, and prevention of chronic disease. Topics include nutrients and nutritional needs across the lifespan, food safety, food security, wellness, body weight regulation, eating disorders, sports nutrition, and prevention of chronic disease. May not be taken for credit if credit earned in NUTR 300. Offered: AWSp. View course details in MyPlan: NUTR 200 NUTR 202 Research Methods in Food Systems, Nutrition, and Health (5) NW, QSR Explores methodological approaches used to study food systems, nutrition, and health including quantitative, qualitative, and mixed methods research. Discusses cross-cutting issues including research ethics, equity, and power dynamics of knowledge production as they relate to food systems. Recommended: NUTR 200. View course details in MyPlan: NUTR 202 NUTR 241 Culinary Nutrition Science (3) NW Explores scientific principles behind modern culinary techniques that transform raw foodstuffs into prepared foods that have sensory appeal. Hands-on kitchen demonstrations show how physical and chemical forces acting on solids, liquids, and gases transform raw ingredients into foods with desirable taste, texture, and aroma. Requires access to a full kitchen to complete assignments. Cannot be taken for credit if credit earned in NUTR 441. View course details in MyPlan: NUTR 241 NUTR 290 Topics in Food Systems and Nutritional Sciences (1-5, max. 10) Explores issues in food systems and nutrition. View course details in MyPlan: NUTR 290 NUTR 302 Food Systems: Harvest to Health (5) NW/I&S Examines the many facets of the modern food supply from production and processing to distribution, marketing, and retail. Systems approach to foods studies considers geopolitical, agricultural, environmental, social, and economic factors along the pathway from harvest to health. Prerequisite: NUTR 200. Offered: ASp. View course details in MyPlan: NUTR 302 NUTR 303 Food Systems: Individual to Population Health (5) I&S/NW Examines the food environment in the local community from the public health perspective. Explores where people get their food, what influences this decision, and various aspects of the local food movement, including access to healthy food, urban agriculture, farmers markets, and other public health nutrition initiatives. Includes a weekly discussion section. Prerequisite: NUTR 200. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: NUTR 303 NUTR 310 Nutrition and the Life Course (4) NW Explores nutrient needs from infancy through adolescence and adulthood, including the physiological basis of nutrient requirements and the genetic, social, and environmental influences on food choices and nutrition status. Uses an evidence-based approach to assess the impact of nutrition across life stages and ways to improve population health by improving nutrition. Prerequisite: NUTR 200. View course details in MyPlan: NUTR 310 NUTR 312 Food System Sustainability and Resilience (3) I&S/NW Explores concepts of sustainability and resilience as used today in the study and management of food production systems. Emphasizes a systems-thinking approach to assessing current and future challenges and resilience in the face of stresses and shocks. Covers complex dynamics between biological and geophysical aspects of food production systems in the context of nourishing a growing population, evaluation of co-benefits and tradeoffs. Recommended: introductory coursework in food systems or sustainability. Offered: jointly with ENVIR 312. View course details in MyPlan: NUTR 312 NUTR 341 Exploration of Multisensory Dining (3) NW Critically evaluates, through the study of research and practical applications, the multisensory relationship between our brains and the food we consume. Prerequisite: NUTR 141 or NUTR 241, either of which may be taken concurrently View course details in MyPlan: NUTR 341 NUTR 390 Food Seminar (1, max. 3) Examines current food, culinary, and food system issues from production, processing, and marketing to consumption, nutrition, and health. Includes diverse perspectives from producers, processors, public health professionals, and relevant research. Credit/no-credit only. View course details in MyPlan: NUTR 390 NUTR 400 Food Systems, Nutrition, and Health Seminar (1, max. 4) I&S Examines emerging issues in food systems, nutrition, and health as they relate to personal and public health. Reviews evidence in the context of food systems and health policy. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: AW. View course details in MyPlan: NUTR 400 NUTR 402 Food Systems Modeling and Analysis (5) Provides a foundation in methods of modeling and analysis used to study food systems. Production, consumption, carrying capacity, food shed analyses, life cycle assessment, system dynamics, and integrated modeling will be addressed. Learn what types of questions are best addressed through modeling approaches, the methods used to conduct food systems models, and the data required to complete the analyses. Prerequisite: NUTR 200; NUTR 302; and NUTR 303 Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: NUTR 402 NUTR 405 Physical Activity in Health and Disease (3) NW Impact of physical activity on individual and public health. Overview of physiological adaptations to activity, exercise prescription, exercise epidemiology, and prevention of chronic diseases. Public health recommendations for activity in the U.S. population, and the effects of the built environment on activity. Prerequisite: either BIOL 118 or BIOL 220. View course details in MyPlan: NUTR 405 NUTR 406 Sports Nutrition (3) NW Covers the essentials of human nutrition that improve and sustain optimal performance for sport and exercise. Discusses the effect of eating disorders (in both male and female athletes), weight management, and sport nutrition resources. Prerequisite: NUTR 200. View course details in MyPlan: NUTR 406 NUTR 411 Diet in Health and Disease (3) QSR Impact of diet on health and the prevention of obesity, diabetes, cardiovascular disease, and other non-communicable diseases. Examines diet-health relationships; social, environmental, and economic factors in eating behavior; and evidence base behind dietary guidelines. Draws on seminal and recent research in nutrition science and uses examples from recent media coverage. Prerequisite: either NUTR 200 or NUTR 300. View course details in MyPlan: NUTR 411 NUTR 412 United States Food Systems Policy (5) I&S Offers a broad introduction to food and nutrition policies in the United States and their impacts on population health. Real-world controversies and debates used to illustrate policy principles, research tools, and policy analysis. Includes topics on public health nutrition, food policy related to population health, and food security. Prerequisite: NUTR 302. View course details in MyPlan: NUTR 412 NUTR 420 Global Nutrition: Challenges and Opportunities (3) I&S Examines global dimensions of malnutrition, its assessment and classification, and global policies and programs to improve nutritional status in developing countries. Emphasizes global consequences of poor nutrition on health, cognition, and development with a focus on the first 1,000 days from conception to age two. Prerequisite: NUTR 200. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: NUTR 420 NUTR 441 Food and Culinary Science (3) Studies the scientific principles behind culinary techniques, with emphasis on sensory evaluation. Prerequisite: NUTR 200; either CHEM 120 or CHEM 142; and either CHEM 220 or CHEM 237. View course details in MyPlan: NUTR 441 NUTR 446 Food Safety and Health (3) Presentation of emerging issues in food safety and toxicology, microbiology, sustainable agriculture, and biotechnology. Examines both domestic and global pressures on the food supply. Examines international and national polices that promote regional solutions for a safe food supply and access to nutritious foods. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: NUTR 446 NUTR 465 Nutritional Anthropology (3) I&S/NW Examines the interrelationships between biomedical, sociocultural, and ecological factors and their influence on the ability of humans to respond to variability in nutritional resources. Topics covered include diet and human evolution, and nutrition-related biobehavioral influences on human growth, development, and disease resistance. Prerequisite: BIO A 201. Offered: jointly with BIO A 465. View course details in MyPlan: NUTR 465 NUTR 490 Special Topics in Nutritional Sciences (1-5, max. 10) Examines emerging issues in nutrition. Reviews the evidence and potential policy implications. View course details in MyPlan: NUTR 490 NUTR 493 Food Systems Capstone (6) The Food Systems Capstone is a culminating academic endeavor for students majoring in Food Systems, Nutrition & Health. The capstone provides students with an opportunity to apply knowledge and skills acquired in their courses to a specific food systems problem or issue. Emphasizing systems thinking, the capstone experience will explore solutions to real world issues through focused study and under the direction of a faculty member. Prerequisite: NUTR 302; NUTR 303; and NUTR 402 View course details in MyPlan: NUTR 493 NUTR 495 Undergraduate Internship (1-5, max. 15) This is a Credit/No Credit course, taken for variable credits, in which you have the opportunity to earn credit for academic work associated with an internship experience. It is intended to be both practical and educational. Through active participation and completion of assignments, you will reflect on your internship experience and identify how it relates to your coursework, college experience, identity, career readiness, and future. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: NUTR 495 NUTR 499 Undergraduate Research (1-5, max. 10) Independent study and research supervised by a faculty member with appropriate academic interest. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: NUTR 499 NUTR 500 Food Systems, Nutrition, and Health Seminar (1, max. 4) Examines emerging issues in food systems, nutrition, and health as they relate to personal and public health. Reviews evidence in the context of food systems and health policy. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: AW. View course details in MyPlan: NUTR 500 NUTR 505 Physical Activity in Health and Disease (3) Impact of physical activity on individual and public health. Overview of physiological adaptations to activity, exercise prescription, exercise epidemiology, and prevention of chronic diseases. Public health recommendations for activity in the U.S. population, and the effects of the built environment on activity. Recommended: human physiology. Offered: jointly with EPI 502. View course details in MyPlan: NUTR 505 NUTR 511 Survey of Advanced Nutrition (2-3) Advanced introduction to nutritional sciences. Topics include macronutrient and micronutrient metabolism, energy balance and obesity, nutrient utilization in physical activity, nutritional needs and recommendations throughout the lifecycle, and the relationships between nutrition and atherosclerosis, diabetes, and cancer risk. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: NUTR 511 NUTR 512 United States Food Systems Policy (3) Offers a broad introduction to food and nutrition policies in the United States and their impacts on population health. Real-world controversies and debates used to illustrate policy principles, research tools, and policy analysis. Includes topics on public health nutrition, food policy related to population health, and food security. Recommended: graduate student standing. View course details in MyPlan: NUTR 512 NUTR 513 Food and Society: Exploring Eating Behaviors in a Social, Environmental, and Policy Context (2) Socio-cultural, environmental, and policy factors interact with biological and psychological characteristics to influence the foods we eat, and when, where, and how we eat them. Uses contemporary readings, films, and critical discussion to explore these macro-scale influences on food, nutrition, and eating behavior. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: NUTR 513 NUTR 514 Sustainable Food Systems for Population Health (3) Marie Spiker Explores linkages between sustainable food systems and population health. Introduces foundational public health concepts, and describes food production, supply chains, environments, consumption, and waste. Explores multiple domains of sustainability - environmental, economic, social, and health. Topics include sustainability, resilience, equity, justice, sovereignty, complexity, and interprofessional collaborations within food systems. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: NUTR 514 NUTR 520 Nutrition and Metabolism I (4) Provides an in-depth overview of the digestion, absorption, and metabolism of macro- and micro-nutrients. Focuses on dietary patterns and nutrient imbalances and how they relate to physiological systems and health outcomes. Recommended: undergraduate course work in biochemistry; anatomy; and physiology. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: NUTR 520 NUTR 521 Nutrition and Metabolism II (4) Provides in-depth overview of the digestion, absorption, and metabolism of macro- and micro-nutrients. Focus on micronutrients (vitamins and minerals). Dietary patterns and nutrient imbalances and how they relate to physiological systems and health outcomes. Second of a two-course series. Recommended: undergraduate course work in biochemistry; anatomy; and physiology. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: NUTR 521 NUTR 526 Maternal and Pediatric Nutrition (3) Examines the influence of maternal, infant, children, and adolescents' nourishment, feeding dynamics, and eating behaviors on growth, development, and health in both individual and population-based environments. Includes nutrition assessment, critical evaluation of normative data, and evidence-based clinical and community nutritional care, family-centered care, and programs. Recommended: undergraduate coursework in human nutrition and human physiology. View course details in MyPlan: NUTR 526 NUTR 529 Nutrition Research Design ([1-3]-, max. 3) Critical review of selected nutrition literature. Evaluation of experimental design, research protocols, data analyses, and data presentations. Credit/no-credit only. View course details in MyPlan: NUTR 529 NUTR 531 Public Health Nutrition (3/6) Offers an introduction to the process of applying the science of nutrition, public health and epidemiology to improve the health of populations and assure access to a safe and nutritious food supply. Through active engagement with a real world public health client, students perform functions of public health: assessment, program planning, policy development, implementation, and evaluation. Recommended: upper-level or graduate coursework in nutritional science, public health, and epidemiology. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: NUTR 531 NUTR 532 Fieldwork in Public Health Nutrition (1-12, max. 12) Experience and service learning in organizations that plan, deliver, and promote population-based nutrition education and nutrition services. Prerequisite: nutritional sciences graduate student and permission of instructor. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: NUTR 532 NUTR 536 Nutrition Education Principles and Practice (2) Examines theory-based design and delivery of nutrition education, including conducting needs assessments and developing lesson plans, activities, visual aids, and evaluation material. Explores design features of written, oral, and technology-based nutrition education materials and initiatives. Addresses differing learning styles, cultural groups, and literacy levels. View course details in MyPlan: NUTR 536 NUTR 537 Laboratory Rotation (1-4, max. 6) Exposure to research being conducted in the laboratories of the graduate nutrition faculty. Provides hands-on experience in laboratory research. Introduces the student to ongoing research for preparation of dissertation topics. Prerequisite: permission of instructor. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: NUTR 537 NUTR 538 Nutritional Epidemiology (3) Application of epidemiological methods to studies of diet, nutrition, and chronic disease. A discussion of current issues and controversies enables students to design studies and read the literature in nutritional epidemiology. Prerequisite: EPI 511 or EPI 512 or instructor permission. Offered: jointly with EPI 538. View course details in MyPlan: NUTR 538 NUTR 545 Food Safety and Health (3) Presentation of emerging issues in food safety, sustainable agriculture, and biotechnology. Examines both domestic and global pressures on the food supply. Examines international policies that promote regional solutions for a safe food supply and access to nutritious foods. View course details in MyPlan: NUTR 545 NUTR 555 Nutrition in Developing Countries (3) Introduces issues of nutrition in developing countries, with an emphasis on the control and prevention of undernutrition and micronutrient deficiencies. Offered: jointly with G H 555; Sp, odd years. View course details in MyPlan: NUTR 555 NUTR 558 Foundations of Dietetics (1) Introduces dietetic concepts, values, and ethics. Dietetic professional expectations in the areas of ethics, professional goal setting, reflective learning, evidence-based practice, and nutrition care are presented. Recommended: enrolled in Graduate Coordinated Program in Dietetics. Credit/no-credit only. View course details in MyPlan: NUTR 558 NUTR 559 Orientation to Clinical Dietetics Practice (3) Provides an orientation to dietetics in clinical settings, including the nutrition care process and integration of evidence-based practice. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: NUTR 559 NUTR 560 Nutritional Counseling for Chronic Disease (1-3) Examines nutritional intervention strategies and counseling skills that pertain to chronic disease prevention and management. Builds knowledge and skills needed to create appropriate care plans and counseling strategies designed to meet individual client assessment/counseling situations. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: NUTR 560 NUTR 561 Graduate Coordinated Program in Dietetics Practice Experience (1-10, max. 35) Focuses on the competencies for entry-level practice in dietetics. Includes supervised practice experience in wellness, public heath, food services, ambulatory care, and clinical care. Recommended: enrolled in Graduate Coordinated Program in Dietetics. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: NUTR 561 NUTR 562 Nutrition and Chronic Disease (4) Epidemiology/pathophysiology of chronic disease related to nutrition (e.g., obesity, cardiovascular disease, osteoporosis, hypertension, diabetes). Examines nutritional risk/protective factors in relation to public health, individual nutrition, and clinical intervention. Prerequisite: physiology, biochemistry. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: NUTR 562 NUTR 563 Nutrition in Acute Care (4) Assessment of the nutritional demands and hypermetabolic response of trauma, surgery, organ failure, burns, AIDS, and neoplastic disease. Examines specialized nutritional support and substrate requirements in the acute care setting. Prerequisite: either NUTR 562 or permission of instructor. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: NUTR 563 NUTR 590 Special Topics in Nutritional Science (1-4, max. 4) Examines emerging issues in nutrition. Reviews the evidence and potential policy implications. Prerequisite: permission of instructor. Credit/no-credit only. View course details in MyPlan: NUTR 590 NUTR 595 Nutritional Sciences Master's Practicum (1-12, max. 12) Supervised practice experience providing students an opportunity to learn how nutritional sciences are applied to public health settings and in the formulation and application of public health policy. Prerequisite: HSERV 511; NUTR 531; EPI 511; NUTR 520; NUTR 521; NUTR 522. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: NUTR 595 NUTR 596 Nutrition Practice Capstone (1-10, max. 25) Applies and extends students' nutritional sciences, dietetics, or public health knowledge and skills to a practice-focused problem or question with the completion of a mentored capstone project and report. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: NUTR 596 NUTR 600 Independent Study or Research (*-) Credit/no-credit only. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: NUTR 600 NUTR 700 Master's Thesis (*-) Credit/no-credit only. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: NUTR 700 NUTR 800 Doctoral Dissertation (*-) Credit/no-credit only. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: NUTR 800 Office of the University Registrar registrar@uw.edu Modified: May 30, 2022