Skip to content Login Menu About Us News & Announcements Team Directory Areas of Service Pre-Award Administration PennERA Cost Analysis Export Compliance Post-Award Administration Research Operations and Cash Management Resources Forms and Documents Library New to Sponsored Projects at Penn? Penn Data for Proposals Coronavirus (COVID-19) Emergency Sponsored Project Handbook Sponsored Projects Policies PI Transfer Guide Systems PennERA Online Reporting Effort Reporting System Research Inventory System Regulatory Topics Export Controls in Research Human Subjects﻿ Animal Subjects﻿ Environmental Health﻿ Financial Conflicts of Interest﻿ Search Login Welcome to the Office of Research Services Penn ranks among the top recipients of competitive research grants and receives more than $1.2B in external awards annually. The Office of Research Services works to ensure that these funds are properly administered and provides assistance to Penn’s principal investigators and business administrators. A mass spectromotist checks for air bubbles in an injection vial. A graduate student with Penn Engineering conducts research with the GRASP Lab’s quadrotors. A researcher examines part of the collection in the Penn Museum’s Artifact Lab. The Krishna P. Singh Center for Nanotechnology is a premier facility that integrates state-of-the-art nanotechnology equipment. Making Disclosures to Federal Funders Click "Learn More" for the latest information and training Learn More Penn ORS News Recent News February 22, 2022 Federal Penn’s New Other Support Tool The Office of the Vice Provost for Research is pleased to announce the launch of Penn’s new Other Support Tool. The Tool can be accessed here. For more information about the Other Support Tool, including how to use it, please visit our Using Penn’s Other Support Tool website. Read More Federal December 3, 2021 Uncategorized Reminder about the Pilot Program for Enhancement of Protection Against Reprisals (41 U.S.C. 4712) The University of Pennsylvania is committed to operating in compliance with applicable laws, regulations, and Penn policies in the conduct of grants, contracts, and other sponsored research. Penn relies on individual faculty, staff and students to report to appropriate University offices, in cases where it appears that a member of the university community may not […] Read More Uncategorized July 2, 2021 Federal NSF Pre- and Post-Award Disclosures Related to Current and Pending Support NSF has developed a disclosure table as a helpful reference regarding pre-award and post-award disclosure information in the biological sketch, current and pending support, and other reports and proposal sections. In addition to the disclosure table, NSF has issued revised FAQs regarding current and pending support. For more information, please refer to our NSF Disclosure […] Read More Federal June 16, 2021 Uncategorized Transitioning Research when a PI leaves Penn Have a PI that’s leaving Penn? See our brief Knowledge Link module describing the steps a departmental administrator can take to support the successful transition of research when a PI leaves Penn. Read More Uncategorized View All News New to Sponsored Projects at Penn? Get Started with ORS Penn Data for Proposals Access Common Data Find Your ORS Contact View Team Directory Areas of Service Pre-Award Administration Cost Analysis Export Compliance Post-Award Administration Research Operations and Cash Management PennERA Office of Research Services 215-898-7293 PENNAORS@lists.upenn.edu 3451 Walnut Street 5th floor, Franklin Building, Philadelphia PA 19104-6205 ©2020 Office of Research Services at the University of Pennsylvania icon-arrow icon-circles icon-doc icon-download icon-external icon-letter icon-lock icon-magnifier icon-pdf icon-phone icon-resource icon-xls