Skip to main content Search search Resources Campus Map A-Z UAccess Directory / Phonebook Future Wildcat Weather News Calendar search search menu menu I am Select your audience choose an option a future student a current student a faculty or staff member a parent or visitor an alumni member a donor a business or partner Go to the page for that group Visit Apply home home close close Search search Main navigation Admissions Admissions Overview First-Year Transfer Graduate International Online Returning Non-Degree Seeking Counselors Professional Education & Certification Academics Undergraduate Majors Graduate Programs Colleges & Schools Academic Resources Health Sciences Class Registration Libraries Global Engagement Research Research, Innovation & Impact Corporate Engagement Research Centers Resources for Researchers Research Opportunities for Students Environment & Sustainability Student Life Student Life Overview Living on Campus Things To Do Getting Involved Spirit & Traditions All About Tucson Student Stories Visit About About Arizona Tuition & Aid Leadership Purpose, Mission & Values Faculty Awards & Honors Diversity & Inclusion New Economy Initiative Strategic Plan News Alumni Alumni Association Chapters & Clubs Arizona Loyal Give Support Arizona Give Today Athletics Athletics & Recreation ATHLETICS & RECREATION The University of Arizona is home to nearly 500 student-athletes who compete in 20 sports. Campus Recreation offers classes, sports, clubs and adventures that enhance the health and well-being of students, faculty and staff. NCAA sports at the University of Arizona - Arizona Intercollegiate Athletics CAMPUS RECREATION FITNESS Dance, martial arts, self-defense, yoga, Pilates, spinning, private yoga and Pilates classes and personal training. More than 50 classes each week. Fitness INTRAMURAL SPORTS Men’s, women’s and co-ed teams play sports in a relaxed and friendly environment – volleyball, flag football, soccer, softball, ultimate Frisbee and more. Intramural Sports OUTDOOR RECREATION CENTER Hiking, backpacking, mountaineering, canoeing, whitewater rafting, rock climbing, bicycle touring, cross-country skiing, caving, and more. Outdoor Recreation AQUATICS Through a variety of classes, programs and services, Aquatics focuses on fitness, health and safety, competition, and leisure. All done in an extraordinary Olympic-sized pool. Aquatics THE CHALLENGE PROGRAM Campus Recreation's state-of-the-art Challenge Program is a customized experience for your organization. Our staff work to develop programs that serve individual and group needs with specific goals in mind. The Challenge Program CLUB SPORTS With about 30 clubs and close to 1000 participants varying from rugby to ballroom dance, clubs may represent the University in intercollegiate competition activities such as practice, instruction, social events and tournament play. Club Sports ADAPTIVE ATHLETICS ADAPTIVE ATHLETICS Disability resources for sports and athletics. Adaptive Athletics MEN'S WHEELCHAIR BASKETBALL Originally a member of the Southern California Conference, the team became an independent member of the NWBA in 1986 and is currently a member of the Championship Division. Men's Wheelchair Basketball QUAD RUGBY The co-ed sport of quad rugby started at the UA in the late 1980s and has been a popular sport here ever since. Quad Rugby TENNIS The UA program has a long history of producing top level athletes including numerous national champions, national team members and Paralympians. Tennis TRACK & ROAD RACING The UA track and road racing team began in the fall of 1997 and has since produced champions and Paralympians. Track & Road Racing WOMEN'S WHEELCHAIR BASKETBALL The UA has had a women's wheelchair basketball team since 2000. The National Championship team plays 25-30 games a season. Women's Wheelchair Basketball WILDCAT SPIRIT MARCHING BAND - THE PRIDE OF ARIZONA UA's marching and pep bands. The Pride of Arizona SPORTS CAMPS Camps for kids led by UA coaches and coaching staff. Sports Camps ZONAZOO The largest student section in the Pac-10 conference. Membership in ZonaZoo offers UA students access to all UA sporting events. ZonaZoo Footer - Main Employment Emergency Information Title IX / Non-Discrimination Campus Safety UAlert Copyright Campus Accessibility Contact Us Feedback The University of Arizona | Tucson, Arizona 85721 | 520‑621‑2211 Information For Future Students Current Students Faculty & Staff Alumni & Donors Parents & Visitors Corporations & Businesses Topics About the University Academics Arts & Museums Athletics & Recreation Colleges, Schools, Departments Diversity Environment & Sustainability Global Engagement Health & Medical Libraries Outreach & Extension Research & Innovation Purpose, Mission & Values Resources A-Z Index Calendars Campus Map News Phonebook Weather Connect Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkedIn YouTube We respectfully acknowledge the University of Arizona is on the land and territories of Indigenous peoples. Today, Arizona is home to 22 federally recognized tribes, with Tucson being home to the O’odham and the Yaqui. Committed to diversity and inclusion, the University strives to build sustainable relationships with sovereign Native Nations and Indigenous communities through education offerings, partnerships, and community service. University Information Security and Privacy © 2022 The Arizona Board of Regents on behalf of The University of Arizona.