Skip to main content University of Pennsylvania School of Arts & Sciences College of Arts & Sciences Graduate Division College of Liberal and Professional Studies University of Pennsylvania School of Arts and Sciences Department of Physics and Astronomy Department of Physics and Astronomy Toggle navigation Main navigation About People Undergraduate Graduate Courses Diversity Research Astrophysics and Cosmology Condensed Matter Particle Physics News Events Resources Search Balloon-borne Large Aperture Submillimeter Telescope A sophisticated telescope that detects submillimeter light from distant star-forming clouds of dust and gas, providing clues to how stars and galaxies were formed. Astrophysics and Cosmology at Penn There is close collaboration between the astrophysics groups and Penn researchers conducting laboratory and astrophysical studies of the nature of dark matter and theoretical studies of gravitational and dark-sector physics. Astrophysics and Cosmology Overview Thirteen full-time faculty members are joined by staff, postdocs, and students in research on astrophysics and cosmology. Major areas of research include: theories of the very early universe (Khoury, Trodden); approaches to cosmic acceleration, including modified gravity (Jain, Khoury, Sheth, Trodden); the properties of dark matter and dark energy, and their influence on the formation of galaxies (Bernstein, Devlin, Jain, Sako, Sanderson, Sheth); the nonlinear growth of structure in the Universe (Bernstein, Jain, Sheth); the evolution of galaxies through the epoch of reionization and into the recent era (Aguirre, Bernardi, Lidz); millimeter and sub-millimeter observations of galaxy clusters, and of star and galaxy formation (Aguirre, Devlin); observations of transient phenomena in the Universe (Sako); detection of planets and planet-forming systems around nearby stars (Blake, Devlin, Jain); and observations of the Solar System beyond Neptune (Bernstein, Blake, Sako). We address these questions from many angles: developing new instrumentation in the optical, millimeter, and sub-millimeter regimes; observations from the radio through x-ray; analysis of large survey datasets; computation and simulation; and theory. There is close collaboration between the astrophysics group and Penn researchers conducting laboratory and astrophysical studies of the nature of dark matter (Klein, Sanderson) and theoretical studies of gravitational and dark-sector physics (Khoury, Trodden). Many members of the department apply techniques from data science and machine learning to astronomical datasets (Bernardi, Jain, Sako, Sanderson). Research Research Astrophysics and Cosmology Condensed Matter Particle Physics New stellar stream, born outside the Milky Way, discovered with machine learning Finding this new collection of stars, named after Nyx, the Greek goddess of night, was made possible using machine learning tools and simulations of data collected by the Gaia space observatory. Read more in Penn Today Related Faculty James Aguirre Associate Professor jaguirre@sas.upenn.edu 215-898-9596 Read Bio Astrophysics and Cosmology Mariangela Bernardi Professor bernardm@sas.upenn.edu (215) 573-6251 Read Bio Astrophysics and Cosmology Gary Bernstein Reese W. Flower Professor of Astronomy and Astrophysics garyb@physics.upenn.edu (215) 573-6252 Read Bio Astrophysics and Cosmology Cullen Blake Associate Professor chblake@sas.upenn.edu 215-898-9495 Read Bio Astrophysics and Cosmology Mark Devlin Reese W. Flower Professor of Astronomy and Astrophysics devlin@physics.upenn.edu (215) 573-7521 Read Bio Astrophysics and Cosmology Bhuvnesh Jain Walter H. and Leonore C. Annenberg Professor in the Natural Sciences Co-Director of the Penn Center for Particle Cosmology bjain@physics.upenn.edu (215) 573-5330 Read Bio Astrophysics and Cosmology Justin Khoury Professor jkhoury@sas.upenn.edu 215-573-7152 Read Bio Astrophysics and Cosmology Particle Physics Adam Lidz Associate Professor alidz@sas.upenn.edu (215) 898-9597 Read Bio Astrophysics and Cosmology Masao Sako Professor and Undergraduate Chair masao@sas.upenn.edu 215/898-8151 Read Bio Astrophysics and Cosmology Robyn Sanderson Assistant Professor robynes@sas.upenn.edu x87848 Read Bio Astrophysics and Cosmology astrorobyn Ravi K. Sheth Professor and Graduate Chair shethrk@physics.upenn.edu 215-898-5942 Read Bio Astrophysics and Cosmology Mark Trodden Fay R. and Eugene L. Langberg Professor of Physics and Department Chair Co-Director of the Penn Center for Particle Cosmology trodden@physics.upenn.edu 215-898-7938 Read Bio Astrophysics and Cosmology Particle Physics News Penn cosmology team ready to field the largest ever cosmic microwave background camera October 12, 2021 A new study details the inner workings of the Large Aperture Telescope Receiver, the cryogenic camera that will be installed at the Simons Observatory at 17,000 feet in northern Chile. Read More New study details work on Large Aperture Telescope Receiver October 8, 2021 Ningfeng Zhu, Ph.D. Read More Prof. Vijay Balasubramanian featured in episode of Netflix series Explained October 6, 2021 Vijay Balasubramanian, Cathy and Marc Lasry Professor, was featured in a recent episode of the Netflix seri Read More NEID spectrometer fully operational with help from Prof. Cullen Blake July 26, 2021 The state-of-the-art NEID spectrometer at the WIYN Observatory is fully operational thanks to a team of scientists including Read More Penn researchers discover comet, "arguably largest discovered in modern times" June 30, 2021 Pedro Bernardinelli, Astronomy postdoctoral researcher and recent department PhD graduate, and Gary Bernstein, Reese W Read More Prof. Bhuvnesh Jain talks about the past, present, and future of "big data" in astronomy and beyond June 14, 2021 Bhuvnesh Jain, Walter H. and Leonore C. Read More Center for Particle Cosmology The puzzles of dark matter, dark energy and the nature of the early universe demand a joint venture between cosmology and particle physics. The Center for Particle Cosmology provides an incubator for such research, fostering the development of new theoretical approaches, grounded in the current epoch of remarkable experimental progress. Go to Site Subscribe to our mailing list Donate Contact Us Department of Physics & Astronomy University of Pennsylvania 209 South 33rd Street University of Pennsylvania Philadelphia, PA 19104-6396 physics-info@physics.upenn.edu Phone:(215) 898-8141 Fax: (215) 898-2010 Mark Trodden Department Chair Ravi Sheth Graduate Affairs Chair Masao Sako Undergraduate Affairs Chair University of Pennsylvania School of Arts and Sciences College of Arts & Sciences Graduate Division College of Liberal & Professional Studies University of Pennsylvania © 2022 The Trustees of the University of Pennsylvania Penn Weblogin