Skip to content Columbia University Irving Medical Center Find People Events Faculty and Staff Resources Give Now Search About Us About Us Facts and Figures Explore CUIMC Events Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion at CUIMC Community Development and Alumni Explore CUIMC Leadership and Administration A-Z Listing Affiliated Hospitals Campus Map and Directions Campus Resources Contact CUIMC Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion At CUIMC, we are committed to continuous improvement in providing culturally inclusive medical education and clinical care. Learn About Our Commitment Education Education Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons Mailman School of Public Health School of Nursing College of Dental Medicine VP&S Columbia Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons is dedicated to developing the next generation of leaders in medicine Learn About Our Academic Programs Research Research The Louisa Gross Horwitz Prize Columbia Technology Ventures Research Administration Columbia Clinical Innovation Lab Patient Care Patient Care ColumbiaDoctors Children's Health Columbia Primary Care Herbert Irving Comprehensive Cancer Center ColumbiaDoctors Dentistry Digital Health Services at Columbia Find a Doctor Search for a provider by specialty, expertise, location and insurance. Schedule an appointment online. Find a Doctor News News For the Media Share Your News CUIMC Update CUIMC Celebrates Columbia Medicine Read the latest news stories about CUIMC faculty, research, and events Explore Our News COVID-19 Resources for CUIMC COVID-19 Resources for CUIMC COVID-19 Information for Patients COVID-19 Campus Safety for Employees and Students COVID-19 Vaccine Information For CUIMC Employees and Students COVID-19 Information and Resources for Clinical Staff COVID-19 Vaccine Information Learn about COVID-19 vaccine availability and requirements for employees and students at CUIMC Get the Latest Information Cancer Topics Campus News Research Medical School Public Health Cancer Mental Health Infectious Diseases Neurology Neuroscience Education Heart Health Pediatrics View All Topics Search All News Keywords News Subtopics: Brain Cancer Breast Cancer Cervical Cancer Colon Cancer Immunotherapy Prostate Cancer Radiation Skin Cancer Top Stories Lung Cancer Screening Program Launches at Columbia and NewYork-Presbyterian The program brings together physicians and nurse practitioners from multiple disciplines to provide care for smokers and ex-smokers who are at high risk for lung cancer and other complications. Topic Campus News Let’s Talk About Sex… and Cancer Sexual dysfunction is common among female cancer patients but infrequently addressed. Columbia oncologist Christine Chin is working to change that. Wendy Chung on Genetics and Cancer Columbia geneticist Wendy Chung reflects on the progress made in cancer genetics and discusses the next frontier of using genetic information to design personalized cancer prevention strategies. Clinical Trial Finds Combination Therapy Has Promise for Gastric Adenocarcinoma Columbia cancer researchers estimate that 60% of patients in a phase 2 clinical trial will have no sign of their cancer two years after treatment with combination therapy. Latest News Study Examines Treatment of COVID-19 in Cancer Patients August 20, 2020 A study of cancer patients with COVID-19 finds mortality is significantly higher than in the general population and Black patients are half as likely to receive the antiviral remdesivir. Overcoming Cancer During COVID-19 July 31, 2020 A breast cancer patient explains how her treatment team unflinchingly continued her care during the COVID-19 pandemic. Topic Breast Cancer Study Suggests Number of Mammograms for Many Breast Cancer Survivors Can Be Reduced June 10, 2020 Compared to yearly screening, more frequent mammograms for women treated for early-stage breast cancer did not confer additional benefit, a study from Columbia University oncologists has found. Topic Breast Cancer Seizures Caused by Brain Cancer May Also Fuel Cancer's Spread April 20, 2020 Seizures are usually considered a side effect of brain cancer, but a new Columbia University study of mice suggests they may also fuel the further growth of brain tumors. Topic Brain Cancer Columbia Names Interim EVP/Dean at Medical Center April 9, 2020 Columbia University President Lee Bollinger announced the appointment of Anil Rustgi, MD, director of the Herbert Irving Comprehensive Cancer Center, as interim EVP and dean, effective July 1, 2020. Topic Campus News Columbia Cancer Researchers Join Fight Against Coronavirus April 3, 2020 Scientists at Columbia's Herbert Irving Comprehensive Cancer Center are using technologies developed to study cancer to look for drugs to treat COVID-19 and disarm the virus. Topic COVID-19 Starving Pancreatic Cancer of Cysteine May Kill Tumor Cells April 2, 2020 In a new study of mice, Columbia researchers found that an experimental drug that breaks down an amino acid slows pancreatic tumor growth by causing ferroptosis, an unusual form of cell death. Raising Heart Rates and Spirits for Cancer Patients March 5, 2020 CancerFIT—a free exercise program at CUIMC for cancer patients and survivors—offers more than a physical workout, it also provides much-needed support and inspiration. Designer Probiotics Deliver Immunotherapies Direct to Tumors February 24, 2020 Columbia biomedical engineers have designed a bacteria strain that seeks out solid tumors and safely delivers immunotherapies, resulting in tumor regression in mouse models. Topic Immunotherapy Columbia Presents Horwitz Prize to Three Scientists for Cancer Discoveries January 10, 2020 The three scientists honored by the 2019 Horwitz Prize played key roles in identifying and deciphering the PI3K pathway, which has led to new treatments for several types of cancer. Pages first previous … 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 … next last Columbia University Irving Medical Center NewYork-Presbyterian About Us Careers News Education Patient Care Research Resources at CUIMC Columbia University Irving Medical Center 630 West 168th Street New York, NY 10032 United States Follow Us Facebook Twitter YouTube LinkedIn Instagram Back to top