Skip to the main content United States Air Force Academy Go to home page image/svg+xml Page 1 Go to home page Link to home page Virtual Tour Radio Parents Graduates Visitors Prep School Graduation Newsletter Apply Today Menu Search the Site Academics A rigorous academic program that balances STEM with the arts and humanities. Academics Core Curriculum Departments Majors & Minors Library Academic Calendar Registrar Faculty and Staff Directory Academic Success Center Request a Transcript Investigator or Verifications Admissions News Research Learn more about cutting-edge research that supports the Air Force and our global society. Research Office of Research Research Centers Cadet Summer Research STEM Outreach Future Conflict Cadet Life Take a peek into the life of a United States Air Force Academy cadet. Cadet Life Dormitories & Dining Cadet Clubs Cadet Support Services Day in the Life Frequently Asked Questions Military With a focus on innovation and adaptation to the changing world of warfare, we’re setting higher expectations for what it means to serve. Military Basic Cadet Training Squadrons Airmanship Military Careers Wings of Blue Athletics About There’s no limit to what you will achieve here. Academics. Athletics. Military training. We deliver the future leaders of modern warfare. About Leadership Character Development History Awards Traditions Educational Innovation More Virtual Tour Radio Parents Graduates Visitors Prep School Graduation Newsletter Apply Today Voice of the Air Force Academy 97.7 The Academy 97.7 The Academy broadcasts live from the U.S. Air Force Academy with the support of cadet DJs from the Broadcast Club. The station can be heard locally in Colorado Springs, Colorado at 97.7 FM and streams live worldwide online. We play today’s best new Alternative Rock commercial-free and provide exclusive coverage of Falcon sports, academic events, graduation and more. Our programming allows cadets to maintain their own distinct broadcast personalities and develop shows that reflect their unique perspectives. Tune in to follow their journeys as cadets and passion for music. Since its conception in 1971, the radio station has empowered thousands of cadets to develop their confidence and communication skills necessary to lead in the United States Air and Space Forces. Open player in new window Interviews History Although there were several unsanctioned attempts by resourceful cadets in the 1950’s and 60’s to launch a radio station at the U.S. Air Force Academy, it wasn’t until 1970 when the Office of the Chief of Staff of the Air Force approved the startup of a radio station with the call sign KAFA. The station’s first public broadcast was on January 17, 1971. The station was assigned three small adjoining rooms in Vandenberg Hall dormitory. With a cost over $10,000, a great deal of the studio construction was built from raw lumber with much of the equipment coming from radio stations that were being closed in Vietnam. Over the years, the station has had to move its frequency from 89.7 to 104.3, then 104.5, and now to 97.7 FM. The station went off the air for a time in the 1980s, but has broadcast continuously since restarting on February 13, 1989. In 2018, the station moved to the main academic building, Fairchild Hall, marking its first relocation in 47 years. The station is now co-located with a state-of-the-art sound stage, allowing cadets to expand their skills beyond radio to video production. Show Schedule Monday – Friday 6am – 10am The Morning Show with Chris Cohn 12pm – 2pm The Midday Show with Cadets 4pm – 6pm The Afternoon Show with Cadets Saturday 9am – 12pm Cover Hour with Steve Simon CONTACT US Chris Cohn, Broadcast Producer Christopher.Cohn@afacademy.af.edu LET THE ADVENTURE BEGIN CADET PODCASTS LISTEN NOW ACADEMICS Departments Majors & Minors Library Academic Calendar Research Centers Faculty and Staff Directory CAMPUS Events Employment Emergency Weather Helping Agencies Apps COMMUNITY AF CyberWorx USAFA Band Force Support Wings of Blue VISIT Visitors Campus Map Facilities Cadet Chapel Planetarium Base Access Contact Us Social Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Flickr © 2022 United States Air Force Academy, All Rights Reserved The appearance of hyperlinks does not constitute endorsement by the Department of the Air Force or the information, products, or services contained therein. For other than authorized activities such as military exchanges and morale, welfare and recreation sites, the Department of the Air Force does not exercise any editorial control over the information you may find at these locations. Such links provided are consistent with the stated purpose of this DOD Web site.