Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Search BC.edu Links The Connors Center Menu Main Nav Contact Back Back Close About Overview Virtual Tour Requests for Proposal Contact Weddings Overview The Estate The Bridal Experience Wedding Weekend & Lodging Catering & Vendors Rates & Reservations Inspirations Wedding Request for Proposal Social Events Meetings & Conferences Retreats Team Building & Outings Close Directory A to Z Listing Search All Departments in Auxiliary Services Search BC.edu Find pages or people Search Close Close BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close Home Weddings Weddings The Estate The Bridal Experience Wedding Weekend & Lodging Catering & Vendors Rates & Reservations Inspirations Wedding Request for Proposal Weddings With its manicured flower beds, fieldstone pathways, and stone terraces, the Connors Center offers many beautiful locations for your dream wedding to become a reality. The Connors Center is a 50,000-square-foot estate ideal for your indoor or outdoor wedding. Accolades Trio of honors for Boston College venues The Connors Center and 2101 Comm. Ave. win three coveted industry awards for excellence in hosting weddings, meetings, and conferences. Read BC News article Where Dream Weddings Come True well-kept secret “A truly stunning venue with so many beautiful locations that you’ll have all to yourself. This is a well kept secret in the Boston-area wedding scene.” Noelle F. A mansion and garden all to yourself “I searched high and low before finding this gem. It is close to Boston but provides a secluded garden feel for outdoor ceremonies, and the mansion was beautiful and elegant for cocktail hour! It is great having the whole venue to yourself. The staff there are wonderful and easy to work with.” Meghan P. Partners in Planning “The staff is not simply professional, attentive, and great at their jobs; they are kind, endlessly available to answer questions, infinitely patient, and full of helpful ideas and recommendations. They are partners in the planning process who care about the result and are willing to go the extra million miles to make a special occasion truly memorable.” Lauren R. The Perfect Spot “As soon as we took one step on the property we knew right away that this was the spot. From the gorgeous gardens to the stone architecture, the Connors Center gave guests a feeling that they were in an English castle.” Brian G. Home for the weekend “I could not have dreamed of a better venue for the wedding. We had the house for the weekend, which meant that anyone you ran into in the hallways was close family or friends! We even had brunch on both Saturday and Sunday morning for our guests! The Connors Center felt like our own home for the weekend.” Marina I. To book your wedding at the Connors Center or to arrange a personal tour of the property, please contact a member of our event planning team at 617-552-9210. Back To Top Back To Top The Connors Center The Connors Center 20 Glen Street Dover, MA 02030 617-552-9210 meet@bc.edu Facebook Instagram LinkedIn Learn about the Estate Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College