Texas Tech University Directory Raiderlink A-Z Index Discoveries Menu Search TTU Research Home Discoveries All Stories Spring 2021 Awards Researcher Awarded USDA-NIFA Grant to Study Potassium Sorption and Fixation in Agricultural Soil By: George Watson The results of the research by Matthew Siebecker and Katie Lewis could help agricultural producers better apply fertilizer to enhance productivity. The application of fertilizer and how well it is absorbed into the soil is critical to all crop growth, but particularly when it comes to cotton. Being able to uptake the nutrients applied, however, relies on numerous factors, not the least of which are the chemical reactions that occur within the soil upon application. One of the most crucial of those nutrients needed for growth is potassium. But the bioavailability, or the amount that is effectively taken in by the plant, of potassium can be problematic, particularly due to potassium fixation. Fixation occurs when potassium ions bond with clay particles in the soil. This can limit the amount of potassium available for uptake by the plant. In an effort to understand the factors that chemically determine potassium fixation in soil, Texas Tech University researcher Matthew Siebecker, an assistant professor of applied environmental soil chemistry in the Department of Plant and Soil Science (PSS), will conduct a series of experiments with nanoparticle and micron-sized silicon and aluminum oxides and clay minerals to better understand these reactions. To aid in this research, Siebecker and co-principal investigator Katie Lewis, an associate professor in PSS who holds a joint appointment with Texas A&M AgriLife Research, received a $335,489 grant from the United State Department of Agriculture (USDA) National Institute of Food and Agriculture's (NIFA) Cooperative State Research Education & Extension Service. "We are extremely grateful to the USDA for funding our work," Siebecker said. "One of the main goals is to show at the molecular scale how important plant nutrients like potassium can react with the surfaces of soil clay minerals." Siebecker and Lewis theorize that the formation of new minerals in soil occurs quickly and acts as a sink to bind tightly with potassium, far more rapidly than previously known. This new mineral formation can occur over several minutes to hours, representing a major shift in the understanding of potassium fixation. Through their experiments, they hope to determine the extent of the reaction, the rate of the reaction and the effects of temperature on potassium adsorption, surface precipitation and desorption onto and from soil metal oxides and clay minerals. In soils, adsorption is the process where a solid holds molecules tightly onto its surface. Desorption is the release of an adsorbed substance from a surface. Experiments will be conducted on sorption/desorption of potassium onto and from individual or mixtures of metal oxides and/or clay minerals. Quantification of the dissolved products will be determined, and solid-phase products will be characterized using detection techniques such as X-ray absorption spectroscopy and transmission electron microscopy to reach their results. The data will then be analyzed to determine the changes in potassium chemistry over time. Siebecker said the project will help advance scientific understanding of the physical and chemical processes that impact potassium fixation and bioavailability. It also will help enhance soil health and agricultural production by improving recommendations on fertilizer application to increase nutrient efficiency. "Soil chemical reactions impact plant nutrient bioavailability," Siebecker said. "However, a critical knowledge gap is our understanding of how soil minerals, like metal oxides, can impact that bioavailability. This work focuses on that knowledge gap by analyzing the chemical reactions that take place on soil mineral surfaces, which can tightly bind plant nutrients." Discoveries Like Office of Research & Innovation on FacebookLike Office of Research & Innovation on Facebook Follow Office of Research & Innovation on twitterFollow Office of Research & Innovation on twitter Subscribe to Office of Research & Innovation on YouTubeSubscribe to Office of Research & Innovation on YouTube Address Texas Tech University, 2500 Broadway, Box 41075 Lubbock, TX 79409 Phone 806.742.3905 Email vpr.communications@ttu.edu Texas Tech University 2500 Broadway Lubbock, Texas 79409 806.742.2011 Follow Texas Tech University Like Texas Tech University on FacebookLike Texas Tech University on Facebook Follow Texas Tech University on twitterFollow Texas Tech University on twitter Check in with Texas Tech University on FourSquareCheck in with Texas Tech University on FourSquare Subscribe to Texas Tech University on YouTubeSubscribe to Texas Tech University on YouTube Follow Texas Tech University on FlickrFollow Texas Tech University on Flickr Follow Texas Tech University on InstagramFollow Texas Tech University on Instagram Connect with Texas Tech University on LinkedInConnect with Texas Tech University on LinkedIn Contact Texas Tech UniversityContact Texas Tech University Contact Us Campus Map Jobs @ TTU Emergency Communication Center General Policy Information Public Access to Course Info Energy Management Mental Health Resources Title IX Fraud and Misconduct Hotline Online Institutional Resumes TTU System TTU Health Sciences Center TTUHSC El Paso Angelo State University Midwestern State University Statewide Search State of Texas Texas Homeland Security Texas Veterans Portal Texas CREWS SAO Fraud Reporting Open Records Requests © 2022 Texas Tech UniversityJul 6, 2021 10:49 AM Discoveries Current Issue Awards Briefs All Stories Research Home Additional Resources TTU HomeDirectory Raiderlink A-Z Index