Skip to content Cornell University Search toggle menu close About Cornell About Cornell Overview University Facts Maps & Directions Mission & Vision Core Values Locations Ithaca New York City Related Links Diversity Indigenous Engagement Economic Impact Sustainability Global Cornell Leadership Admissions Overview Undergraduate Apply Admissions Dates and Deadlines Costs and Aid Graduate Admissions Fields of Study Financial Support Continuing Education & Summer Sessions Summer Sessions Winter Sessions Part-time Study Academics Academics Overview Fields of Study Colleges & Schools Departments Library Continuing Education Related Links Office of the Provost Academic Calendar Course Catalog Global Learning Learning Goals Research Overview Explore Cornell Research Extreme Talent. Radical Collaboration. Results That Matter. Related Links Vice President for Research and Innovation Centers & Institutes Technology Licensing (CTL) Graduate Research Undergraduate Research OVPRI Research Publications Public Engagement Overview Featured CCE helps Buffalo get school food truck rolling Related Links Cornell Cooperative Extension Engaged Cornell Hub Land Grant to New York State New York State Impact Life at Cornell Life at Cornell Overview Athletics & Recreation Arts & Culture Health & Safety Live, Work, Travel Student Life Related Links Find Your Networks Center for First-Year Students Clubs & Student Groups More Toggle navigation Apply Undergraduate Graduate Visit Give Students Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Search Search Overview University Facts Mission & Vision Core Values Locations Ithaca New York City Maps & Directions About Ithaca, NY Nestled in New York’s Finger Lakes region, Ithaca is a unique college town that is consistently rated as a top area to live, work and study. As the federal land-grant institution for New York state, Cornell has been part of the fabric of Ithaca since our founding in 1865. While things are different this year because of the COVID-19 pandemic, Cornell is committed to the safety and well-being of our campus and surrounding communities. Learn more about the university’s response to COVID-19. Our Main Campus Tradition, Beauty, Opportunity Cornell's main campus in Ithaca, NY provides all of the experiences of a traditional college campus, set against the backdrop of a beautiful, welcoming city. With a wide variety of opportunities and unique offerings at every turn, it is a campus so inviting you need to see it for yourself. Visit Campus Ithaca has something for everyone The vibrant community surrounding campus will welcome you as soon as you arrive. Located at the south end of Cayuga Lake—the largest of the Finger Lakes—Ithaca boasts unsurpassed natural beauty in its gorges, state parks and waterfront. Collegetown and the Ithaca Commons are a short walk from campus, offering a city atmosphere with an array of shopping, restaurants, cultural activities and nightlife. Between urban life and alluring countryside, Ithaca has something for everyone to see and do. The heart of Downtown Ithaca Commons Home to many unique stores and restaurants, and the location for some of Ithaca’s most popular annual events, this section of Downtown is the perfect place to gather with friends. Join in the fun Support local artisans Farmers Markets Several markets throughout Ithaca offer a variety of local wares, from specialty foods and baked goods to fine art and handmade crafts. Learn more about the vendors Get out on the water Cayuga Lake The longest of the Finger Lakes, Cayuga Lake offers stunning views, boating, swimming and so much more. Dive right in The Wine Region of the East Wineries Cayuga Lake is home to dozens of wineries. Take a wine tour along the Cayuga Lake Wine Trail – the longest running wine trail in America. Explore the trail Ithaca is gorges Waterfalls and Gorges Ithaca is famous for its gorges. You can’t pass up an opportunity to see one of the more than 150 waterfalls in the area. Discover the natural beauty "Ithaca’s storied past and natural beauty are a wonderful complement to the world-class education experience at Cornell." - President Pollack Ithaca through the seasons Ithaca’s stunning landscape and variety of seasonal experiences offer something for everyone, all year long. Fall Take in the colors of fall You will be welcomed into the season by foliage that provides stunning scenery for hiking, cider tastings and pumpkin picking. Winter Life doesn’t slow down in the winter Whether you prefer skiing, snowshoeing or enjoying a hot chocolate by the fire, you’ll be looking forward to winter all year long. Spring Ithaca blooms in the spring The beautiful flowers, outdoor public art and open-air farmers markets are sure to put a spring in your step. Summer Soak up the summer Enjoy the warmer weather with activities such as swimming, boating and wine tours – just to name a few. Approximate driving times to major cities Syracuse: 1 hour Rochester: 1.5 hours New York City: 4 hours Philadelphia: 4 hours Toronto: 4 hours Cleveland: 5 hours Boston: 5.5 hours Washington, D.C.: 6 hours Continue Exploring … Back to top Life at Cornell Campus Tours Campus Maps Ithaca-NYC Travel Helpful Links expand menu Academic Calendar Leadership Careers Events News Title IX Emergency Preparedness Visiting Cornell expand menu Campus Tours Maps & Directions Ithaca-NYC Travel Johnson Museum Botanic Gardens Ithaca Ithaca Today expand menu Live View Weather 79°F / 26°C Ithaca, New York University Privacy Web Accessibility Assistance Copyright Site Information Contact Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube