By continuing to use this site, you agree to the use of cookies in accordance with our privacy policy. Dismiss Stay Safe The official source of public health information for Syracuse University. Skip to Content Open menu About Admissions Academics Life Athletics More Search the University Open search Popular searches Close menu Home About Toggle dropdown Leadership Vision & Mission Consumer Information Facts & Figures Plan Your Visit Campus Map History News Partnerships Work at Syracuse Social Media Bookstore Brand Help & Contacts Admissions Toggle dropdown Undergraduate Graduate Online Part-Time Cost & Aid Request Information Visit & Tour Apply Academics Toggle dropdown Schools & Colleges Undergraduate Majors & Minors Graduate Degrees Online Programs Syracuse University Global Study Abroad Opportunities & Support Calendars Departments Research Centers & Institutes Libraries, Collections & Galleries Academic Administration Life Toggle dropdown Accessibility & Diversity Campus Highlights Events Calendar Services & Support Meals & Dining Housing Groups & Activities Recreation & Facilities For Students For Veterans & Military For Faculty & Staff For Parents & Families A-Z Index Sitemap Login Athletics Men’s Sports Toggle dropdown Basketball Cross Country Football Lacrosse Rowing Soccer Track and Field Women’s Sports Toggle dropdown Basketball Cross Country Field Hockey Ice Hockey Lacrosse Rowing Soccer Softball Tennis Track and Field Volleyball Athletics Dept. Toggle dropdown Facilities Staff Directory Academic Honors Community Service Spirit Program Varsity Club Sports Medicine Championships Fan Zone Toggle dropdown Dome Schedule Seating Information Orange All Access Otto’s Kids Club Game Photos Promotions Orange Club Schedules News Alumni About Toggle dropdown Notable Alumni Alumni Association Awards News Events and Clubs Toggle dropdown Orange Central Northeast Midwest South West World/Affinity Regions Toggle dropdown Atlanta Boston Chicago Los Angeles Middle East New York San Francisco Washington, DC Services Toggle dropdown Career Network Generation Orange Directory Profile Class Notes Giving Contact Contact Visit Apply Coronavirus Updates Forever Orange Home Academics Syracuse Abroad Strasbourg First-Semester Option First-Semester Study Abroad in Strasbourg Strasbourg is the official seat of the European Parliament and European Court of Human Rights, making it the ideal place for you to study communications, international relations, human rights, and management. Students participating in the Discovery Strasbourg program will enjoy a rich and varied introduction to France through a challenging semester-long curriculum. The program fulfills the same curricular requirements as those pursued by freshmen studying on SU’s main campus, while providing a course schedule unique to the Strasbourg experience. Over one third of the Strasbourg faculty are professionals from the Council of Europe or Court of Human Rights who bring real issues into the classroom. Niche programs offered by SU Strasbourg include European Union studies, international relations, French language, human rights, music performance (through a partnership with Strasbourg Conservatory), and management. Ready to apply? Life in Strasbourg Syracuse University Strasbourg has a long-standing relationship within the Strasbourg community that has allowed SU to offer students a program that excels in academics and cultural immersion. The SUS faculty are internationally renowned scholars, and the staff is truly dedicated to meeting the needs of today’s students and helping them immerse themselves in the French culture. SU Strasbourg is eager to welcome the exceptional first-year students of the Discovery Strasbourg program. Living with a French Host Family Discovery Strasbourg students will live with French hosts either within the city of Strasbourg or in the immediate outskirts on a bus line. This enables you to use the French you’ve learned in class and develop insight into French culture that cannot be achieved in any other way. Hosts vary from traditional family to single professionals. The housing coordinator in Strasbourg makes the placements based on extensive experience with each host. Students usually eat their mid-day meal at one of the cafés or student restaurants. Continental breakfasts are provided by the host family every day, and evening meals are provided weekdays. Students themselves repeatedly describe the host family experience as the best part of being abroad. Insider Tips Meet Durrie , a Discovery Strasbourg alumna who has some great tips for studying abroad in France: Strasbourg museums are free on the first Sunday of every month. Make sure to take advantage. Rent a bike for just €5 and ride on the path into Germany. During the holiday season, visit the Christmas Market near the Cathedral, a tradition since 1570. Check out the quiche (and free WiFi) at L’artichaut, right down the street from the SU Center. Join the ultimate frisbee club at the University of Strasbourg. Academics Advising Connect with Syracuse Abroad through general advising sessions or program appointments. Drop-in or schedule a virtual or in-person advising session at SyracuseAbroad@Bird Monday-Friday from 11 a.m. to 5 p.m. Or, schedule an appointment to meet with a Syracuse Abroad program advisor. View all advising options View all advising options. First-Year Seminar All Discovery Strasbourg students will participate in the Strasbourg equivalent of the First-Year Seminar offered by the College of Arts and Sciences on main campus. The goal of the forum is to orient you to college life, to SU, and to studying abroad. Students will discuss issues of host families, cultural adjustment, time management, study habits, expectations of college level courses, choosing a major, and more. This course will be taught by staff in Strasbourg with input from the associate dean for curriculum and instruction of the College of Arts and Sciences. Program Field Study The objective of the all-school field studies program is to offer you the opportunity to travel to cities throughout France learning about the history, art, architecture, and culture of your host country under the guidance of an experienced professor or lecturer. In the past all-school field studies program included day trips to Alsace, the Black Forest, hiking in the Vosges mountains, and Dijon-Burgundy. The trips are open to all students. Courses The Discovery Strasbourg curriculum provides rich introduction to France while fulfilling the same curricular requirements as those pursued by freshmen studying on Syracuse University's main campus. Upon return to Syracuse in the spring semester, Discovery Strasbourg participants will be on equal footing academically with their main campus peers. Note: If you are interested in a natural science, mathematics, pre-med track, engineering, or computer science, you should apply to Discovery Madrid as this is the only center that offers the required first-semester courses in these programs. For specific course information, view required and optional courses . Popular Toggle dropdown Academic Calendar Campus Map Careers Libraries Majors and Minors Visit and Tour A-Z Toggle dropdown Academic Departments Schools and Colleges Sitemap Search Contact Toggle dropdown Admissions Financial Aid Emergency Contacts Human Resources Make a Gift Login Toggle dropdown MySlice Blackboard SUMail Syracuse University 900 South Crouse Ave. Syracuse, NY 13244 Phone: +1.315.443.1870 Follow S.U. on Instagram Like S.U. on Facebook Follow S.U. on Twitter Follow S.U. on LinkedIn Follow S.U. on Tiktok Subscribe to S.U. on YouTube © Syracuse University. Knowledge crowns those who seek her. Accessibility Accreditation Emergencies Privacy