Skip to Main Content Brown University News from Brown Site Navigation Featured Events For Journalists Search Menu Topics Health and Medicine Date March 25, 2022 2022-03-25 Media Contact Corrie Pikul [email protected] 401-863-1862 All News Share Facebook Twitter Linkedin Email Ronald Aubert to serve as interim dean of Brown’s School of Public Health An epidemiologist with unique and varied public health experience, Aubert will serve as interim dean while Dr. Ashish Jha is on short-term leave for an assignment leading the nation’s COVID-19 response. PROVIDENCE, R.I. [Brown University] — Ronald Aubert has been appointed interim dean of the Brown University School of Public Health while Dr. Ashish Jha takes a short-term leave as the school’s leader for a temporary special assignment as the White House coronavirus response coordinator. Aubert serves currently as interim associate dean for diversity and inclusion at the School of Public Health and faculty director of Brown’s Presidential Scholars Program. He also has faculty appointments in the Department of Health Services, Practice and Policy, and at the Center for the Study of Race and Ethnicity in America. Brown Provost Richard M. Locke announced Aubert’s appointment in a Friday, March 25, message to the University community. “I truly appreciate Ron’s leadership and excitement for this role,” Locke said. “The School of Public Health, which has already grown quickly since its founding in 2013, is poised to significantly expand its impact and reach through teaching, research and public service. Ron will help further the school’s progress toward its established plans for academic and operational excellence, fundraising and research space over the coming year.” It is an honor to be asked to serve as interim dean while Dean Ashish Jha answers the call to serve our nation at a critical moment during this pandemic. Ronald Aubert Faculty Director of Presidential Scholars Program at Brown With experience in higher education, government and health care organizations, Aubert has a deep background in public health. In addition to teaching at Brown, he has held appointments at the University of North Carolina, where he received his Ph.D. in epidemiology; Rutgers University; and Emory University. Early in his career, Aubert worked at the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, initially in the Epidemic Intelligence Service, and later as a chief of epidemiology and commander in the U.S. Public Health Service. He subsequently moved into a series of leadership roles at health care organizations including Bayer Healthcare, Medco Health Solutions, Aetna and Research and Evaluation Analytics. Locke said that at Brown, Aubert has been a dedicated teacher and accomplished administrator. In his time as interim associate dean of diversity and inclusion at the School of Public Health, he has focused on increasing the diversity of students enrolled in master’s and doctoral programs, and helped to advance several strategic priorities including the school’s partnerships with historically Black colleges and universities. Aubert expressed enthusiasm for working with School of Health faculty, staff and students to advance school priorities during Jha’s leave of absence. “It is an honor to be asked to serve as interim dean while Dean Ashish Jha answers the call to serve our nation at a critical moment during this pandemic,” Aubert said. “Fortunately, Dean Jha has assembled a first-in-class executive team that will continue to implement the aggressive agenda he has laid out for the Brown University School of Public Health. I have great colleagues such as Dean Megan Ranney, and along with Provost Locke, we will continue to move things forward until Dean Jha returns." The appointment will take effect April 4, 2022. Tags Faculty and Staff School of Public Health Related news: Health and Medicine Brown physician, medical student urge stronger federal support for overdose prevention centers May 23, 2022 Elizabeth Samuels, an assistant professor at the Warren Alpert Medical School, and medical student Aneeqah Naeem argued for federal action supporting harm reduction centers such as those authorized in Rhode Island. Read Article Open details for Brown physician, medical student urge stronger federal support for overdose prevention centers Health and Medicine In student address, medical school graduate to reflect on finding strength in uncertainty May 16, 2022 Adriel Barrios-Anderson, who served as a student orator upon earning his bachelor’s degree from Brown in 2017, hopes to inspire newly minted M.D.s to feel confident about embracing the uncertainty of the future. Read Article Open details for In student address, medical school graduate to reflect on finding strength in uncertainty Health and Medicine ‘This was our moment’ — medical students embrace non-traditional timing for long-standing white coat tradition May 3, 2022 The Warren Alpert Medical School’s Class of 2024 celebrated together at an in-person white coat ceremony that was held two years later than usual, but still felt timely. Read Article Open details for ‘This was our moment’ — medical students embrace non-traditional timing for long-standing white coat tradition Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown Social Navigation Facebook Instagram LinkedIn Snapchat Twitter YouTube Social Media Directory © Brown University Brown University For You Current Students Faculty Staff Parents & Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Featured Events For Journalists Topics Arts and Humanities Environment Health and Medicine News and Events Science and Technology Social Sciences Student Life University Initiatives Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation About Events For You Give to Brown All of Brown.edu People News Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Ronald Aubert to serve as interim dean of Brown’s School of Public Health Open details for Ronald Aubert to serve as interim dean of Brown’s School of Public Health Bookmark this Page