Menu Close Menu Skip to content Information For: Prospective Students Current Students Alumni Faculty & Staff Friends & Supporters A to Z index Search for: Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health Email People Departments Calendar Careers my.harvard Giving About Faculty & Research Admissions & Aid Academics Executive/Continuing Ed News The Studio The Harvard Chan Studio is the hub for the School’s premiere live and livestreamed events. We convene global leaders in health policy, advocacy, industry, and research for insightful conversations about public health’s most pressing challenges and most promising solutions. To receive alerts about upcoming events, subscribe to our mailing list. Join our list Featured event View from the Hill: A conversation with Sen. Michael Bennet May 23, 2022 | Go to the event page Upcoming events June 6th, 2022 @ 12:00 pm Dismantling disinformation An on-demand video will be posted after the event. We’ve all seen the perils of disinformation. So, how do we combat it? This panel will explore concrete proposals for dismantling disinformation in communities, on social media, and through public policy and regulation. We’ll bring together experts from multiple fields — including communication, education, behavioral psychology, and First Amendment law — to tackle an issue that could well shape the future of public health. This is a conversation about solutions and … Continue reading "Dismantling disinformation" View all events Past events May 23rd, 2022 @ 12:00 pm View from the Hill: A conversation with Sen. Michael Bennet Presented jointly with POLITICO Sen. Michael Bennet has called for dramatically expanding the public health workforce and rethinking the federal role in spurring development of critical therapeutics, such as next-generation antibiotics. An outspoken supporter of reproductive rights, he has also has raised concerns about what he calls “the radical nature of this Supreme Court” and the prospect that Roe v. Wade will be overturned. Bennet will talk about these proposals and his other work in the health care arena, including … Continue reading "View from the Hill: A conversation with Sen. Michael Bennet" May 20th, 2022 @ 12:00 pm View from the Hill: A conversation with Rep. Lauren Underwood Presented jointly with POLITICO Rep. Lauren Underwood brings a unique perspective to Capitol Hill. The youngest African-American woman ever to serve in the House, she is a registered nurse and former senior adviser to the Department of Health and Human Services, where she helped communities prepare for bioterrorism threats and other public health emergencies. The Illinois Democrat will discuss emergency preparedness, Black maternal health, reproductive rights, gun violence, disinformation, and other issues at the top of her agenda in this … Continue reading "View from the Hill: A conversation with Rep. Lauren Underwood" May 19th, 2022 @ 12:00 pm View from the Hill: A conversation with Sen. Bill Cassidy Presented jointly with POLITICO Sen. Bill Cassidy has been outspoken about the need to improve our response time in future public health emergencies. He has bucked many in his party by supporting local control over decisions such as mask mandates. And he’s a leader in the conservative movement to ban abortions — an issue that has taken on new urgency with the leak of a draft Supreme Court opinion that would overturn Roe v. Wade. The Louisiana Republican, a physician … Continue reading "View from the Hill: A conversation with Sen. Bill Cassidy" May 4th, 2022 @ 12:00 pm Reinventing mental health care A Dr. Lawrence H. and Roberta Cohn Forum Mental health care is in crisis. Demand for services has shot up during the pandemic, and it’s harder than ever for patients to find a clinician. Laws requiring insurers to treat mental and physical health conditions equitably are often ignored. The resulting toll on individuals, families, and communities is staggering. There’s no doubt the current system is broken, part of a public health infrastructure teetering on the brink. But there is a … Continue reading "Reinventing mental health care" April 25th, 2022 @ 1:00 pm Fortifying public health from the ground up Long before the COVID-19 pandemic, the public health system was grappling with chronically strained budgets, a shrinking workforce, and archaic data systems. Now, in the midst of crisis, public health officials also are confronting unprecedented politicization of their work, including personal threats and new laws that undermine their ability to make and enforce local rules. In this discussion, a diverse panel of local and state health officials share insights on the forces that have brought public health to the brink—and … Continue reading "Fortifying public health from the ground up" View all events View all past events, including those produced by The Forum and Voices in Leadership, at the Harvard Chan School YouTube channel. Harvard Chan School on Twitter In the wake of a May 24 mass shooting at a Uvalde, Texas, elementary school that left 19 students and two teachers… https://t.co/x8GHo0fMZS RT @dengdiit: This week,I had the honor and responsibility of receiving a master’s degree in public health with concentration in health pol… RT @Harvard: “Don’t let your generation be defined by the pandemic. Let it be defined by public service,” said Attorney General Merrick Gar… RT @HarvardCCHANGE: Looking for ways to take action on #climate? The Climate Health Organizing Fellowship trains health professionals to u… RT @HarvardCCHANGE: Creativity is turning coal mines, landfills, and toxic waters into opportunities for #CleanEnergy. Your lights yearn to… RT @HarvardCenterHH: What is the relationship between #technology and #happiness? This @Forbes article offers potential considerations, wit… Information For: Prospective Students Current Students Alumni Faculty & Staff Friends & Supporters About Key Facts Renaming the School Office of the Dean Location and Facilities Administrative Offices Contact Us Faculty and Research Faculty and Researcher Directory Academic Departments, Divisions and Centers International Research Postdoctoral Research Fellows Office of Faculty Affairs Faculty Searches Office of Diversity and Inclusion Admissions & Aid Why Harvard Chan Degree Programs Non-Degree Programs Financial Aid Student Experience Career Advancement Apply Academics Academic Departments Divisions Research Centers Flagship Initiatives International Research Research Administration and Support Degree Programs Fellowships and Residencies Summer Programs Continuing Professional Education Interdisciplinary Concentrations Academic Calendar Harvard Chan Viewbook Executive/Continuing Ed Program Offerings Custom Programs Request Information News and Resources About ECPE Contact News Featured News Press Releases Student Stories In the News Newsletters HPH Magazine Why Public Health? Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health 677 Huntington Avenue Boston, MA 02115 +1 (617) 495‑1000 Twitter Facebook YouTube LinkedIn Instagram iTunes Harvard Chan Home Contact Us Harvard University Home Make a Gift Privacy Policy Report Copyright Violation Accessibility Copyright © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College