Your browser does not support iframes. Skip to main content Menu Scheller College of Business Request More Information Attend an Info Session Contact Us Directory Apply Now Search Why Scheller? Programs Executive Education Academics Centers & Initiatives News & Events Overview & History Dean's Message and Report Meet Ernest Scheller Jr. Advisory Board Accreditation Strategic Plan Business at Tech Graduates Get Hired Return on Investment Faculty and Advisors Global Perspective A Good Fit Corporate Engagement Trading Floor Georgia Tech Community Student Life Making Connections and Learning Opportunities Diversity Diversity News Career and Recruiter Services Career Services for Students Hire Our Students Giving to the College Meeting the Challenge Priorities and Needs Faculty Support Student Support Program Enrichment Unrestricted Endowment The Impact of Your Gift How to Make a Gift FAQs Scheller MBA Annual Fund Alumni Network Alumni News Alumni Resources Update Contact Information Visit Campus Tech Square and Atlanta Full-time MBA Admissions Curriculum Career Development Leadership Development Student Organizations Student & Alumni Profiles Meet an MBA Ambassador FAQsEvening MBA Admissions Curriculum Career Advancement Leadership Development Student Organizations Student & Alumni Profiles Meet an MBA Ambassador FAQs Executive MBA Admissions Curriculum Career Development Student & Alumni Profiles FAQsMBA Programs Which Georgia Tech MBA is Right for Me? Commitment to Diversity, Inclusion, and Equity Dual Degree Options Experiential Learning For Engineers For Military Community MD/MBA Option MBA Early Admission for Undergrads Rankings The Intersection Podcast Earn Your MBA in Atlanta Graduate Certificate Business Analytics Certificate Undergraduate Admissions Curriculum Career Services Student Services Student Life Scholarships & Awards Rankings & Stats Connect With Us The Intersection Podcast, Undergrad PhD Concentrations Program Milestones Faculty and Staff Funding Admissions FAQs Recruiting Events Student Bios Program News Request Program Information Interdisciplinary M.S. M.S. in Quantitative & Computational Finance (QCF) Master of Science in Analytics at Georgia Tech Lean Six Sigma Certification Lean Six Sigma Green Belt Certification Lean Six Sigma Black Belt Certification FAQs Custom Programs FAQs Accounting Finance Information Technology Management Law & Ethics Marketing Operations Management Organizational Behavior Strategy & Innovation Student Certificates Engineering Entrepreneurship Entrepreneurship International Management Management of Technology Technology Innovation: Generating Economic Results Academic Speaker Series Guest Speakers in Accounting Guest Speakers in Finance Guest Speakers in Marketing Current Faculty Opportunities Business Analytics Center Engage with Us Executive Council News Research Education People Cecil B. Day Program for Business Ethics About Cecil B. Day The Cecil B. Day Prize Speakers and Events Faculty Support Net Impact Center for International Business Education and Research Projects Research Events Books People at CIBER Inside CIBER News and Events Archives International Management Certificate Sign Up for Future CIBER News Financial Analysis Lab Subscribe to Reports Institute for Leadership and Social Impact About Us Programs News Impact Speaker Series Leadership for Social Good Study Abroad Program Social Impact Fellows Ideas to Serve (I2S) Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Servant Leadership Programs Minor in Leadership Studies Excel Alumni Other ILSI Programs Partnerships Program for Engineering Entrepreneurship Ray C. Anderson Center for Sustainable Business About Us Sustainable Business Insights Research Briefs Sustainable Business Events Sustainable Business News Blog Research & Thought Leadership Empowering Students Industry Engagement Newsletter Participating in the Drawdown Georgia Compact Drawdown Georgia Business Compact Meet the Team Alumni Steven A. Denning Technology & Management Program Director's Message About Steven A. Denning T&M Curriculum Program Faculty & Staff Admissions T&M Corporate Affiliates Denning T&M Program News TI:GER® and CDL-Atlanta Program Network TI:GER MBA & PhD FAQs News Apply Inquire Resources in Technology Innovation and Entrepreneurship Scheller News Event Calendar The Intersection Podcast Media Inquiry Marketing Innovation Conference @ Scheller News & Events Home » Centers & Initiatives » Center for International Business Education and Research » News and Events » CIBER News February 10, 2022 The Financial and Economic Ramifications of the Ukraine-Russia ConflictRead more March 02, 2021 Georgia Tech Scheller’s CIBER Hosts First C-Suite Series Talk Featuring Christian Fischer, President and CEO of Georgia-PacificRead more 2022 2021 2020 Archives February 10, 2022 The Financial and Economic Ramifications of the Ukraine-Russia Conflict Georgia Tech Scheller College of Business faculty experts John McIntyre and Diane Alleva Cáceres provide insights into the Ukraine-Russia conflict and the economic and financial decisions facing affected countries. Read more March 02, 2021 Georgia Tech Scheller’s CIBER Hosts First C-Suite Series Talk Featuring Christian Fischer, President and CEO of Georgia-Pacific Georgia Tech Scheller’s Center for International Business Education and Research (CIBER) kicks off its C-Suite Series with a talk featuring Christian Fischer, president and CEO of Georgia-Pacific. Read more January 16, 2020 Mondo Merkato Podcast Series from CIBER Invites Listeners to Learn More about International Business through Storytelling How does soft drink king Pepsi and the internationally renowned pop group ABBA trade with the Soviet Union when rubles are useless? How does Blockchain works outside the public image of being tied predominately to Bitcoin? Listen to the Mondo Merkato podcast series from CIBER to find out. Read more September 03, 2019 U.S. India Business Forum Highlights Economic Partnerships in Technology Development The 10th Annual USA India Business Forum and the 25th Annual Georgia Tech Global Business Forum was held August 27-28 at the Academy of Medicine. The event, titled “Global Advanced Industries: Creating Local Opportunities,” was sponsored by the Sheller College of Business’ Center for International Business Education and Research (CIBER), the USA India Business Summit (UIBS), and the Georgia Department of Economic Development. Read more April 22, 2019 Key2Enable Wins at Global Social Venture Competition At the recent global finals of the Global Social Venture Competition (GSVC) held on April 5, two teams representing the U.S. Eastern Region, Key2Enable and Magnomer, had an exceptional showing - placing in the top six, with Key2Enable winning the top prize and $40,000 in funding. Read more April 03, 2019 Ideas to Serve Competition – ‘Know What You Don’t Know’ Applicants for the 2019 Ideas to Serve (I2S) competition are exploring and addressing a number of issues both locally and globally from plastic waste reduction, disaster response in low-income communities, food security, global health, prison reform, education, and more! Read more October 10, 2018 Four-Year Award Announced for Georgia Tech’s CIBER Scheller College of Business Dean Maryam Alavi announced Georgia Tech’s Center for International Business Education and Research (GT CIBER) regional center of excellence -- based at the Scheller College of Business, serving the Georgia Tech academic and Georgia business communities -- was successful in its eighth national round of competition for a four-year award. Read more May 10, 2018 John R. McIntyre Releases New Book on CSR and Climate Change Implications for Multinational Enterprises Scheller College’s John R. McIntyre has released a new book, CSR and Climate Change Implications for Multinational Enterprises. The book describes, explains, and predicts how multinational firms will rise to the multiple challenges posed by global climate issues and the organizational and behavioral various responses of the international corporate community. Read more April 06, 2016 Emerging Dynamics of Sustainability to be Published in April 2016 CIBER executive director John R. McIntyre edits new volume in Edward Edgar Publishing Ltd's 'New Horizons in International Business series'. Read more April 06, 2016 Yosef Kebede Joins GT CIBER as Business Fellow Mr. Kebede is a US-based business development professional with over 15 years of experience in engineering consulting, international development, construction management, marketing, and workforce development. Read more March 28, 2016 In the Classroom with Michael Smith Michael Smith uses his Georgia Tech education and experience to reach students in the classroom. Read more March 07, 2015 Glenn Lurie, President and CEO, AT&T Mobility to Speak to Scheller EMBA Students The Scheller College of Business Executive MBA (EMBA) program will host guest speaker Glenn Lurie on March 14. Mr. Lurie will speak to the class from 12:30 - 1:30 p.m. in room 300. Read more March 04, 2015 Scheller College Hosts Semifinals of Global Social Venture Competition For the second consecutive year, Georgia Tech Scheller College of Business served as host of the semifinal round (for the Eastern U.S. Region) of the Global Social Venture Competition. Read more March 31, 2014 China's Rise and India's Strategic Choices The China Research Center Annual Lecture 2014 Presented by Professor Martin K. Whyte John Zwaanstra Professor of International Studies and Sociology. "The Paradox of Communists Effectively Promoting Capitalism". Read more More 02-10-2022 The Financial and Economic Ramifications of the Ukraine-Russia Conflict Read more Georgia Tech CIBER Global Impact Award Finalist Video Scheller College of Business Home Why Scheller? Overview & History Business at Tech Georgia Tech Community Career and Recruiter Services Giving to the College Alumni Network Visit Campus Tech Square and Atlanta Programs MBA Undergraduate PhD Interdisciplinary M.S. Executive Education Lean Six Sigma Certification Custom Programs Academics Accounting Finance Information Technology Management Law & Ethics Marketing Operations Management Organizational Behavior Strategy & Innovation Student Certificates Academic Speaker Series Current Faculty Opportunities Centers & Initiatives Business Analytics Center Cecil B. Day Program for Business Ethics Center for International Business Education and Research Financial Analysis Lab Institute for Leadership and Social Impact Program for Engineering Entrepreneurship Ray C. Anderson Center for Sustainable Business Steven A. Denning Technology & Management Program TI:GER® and CDL-Atlanta News & Events Scheller News Event Calendar The Intersection Podcast Media Inquiry Marketing Innovation Conference @ Scheller LinkedIn Instagram Facebook Twitter Youtube Flickr Georgia Institute of Technology Scheller College of Business 800 W. Peachtree St. NW Atlanta, GA 30308 404.894.2600 © 2022 Georgia Institute of Technology Intranet Emergency Information Contact the College Privacy & Legal Notice Accountability Web Accessibility Resources for People with Disabilities Plugins Youtube Usage Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Hazing Public Disclosures