Skip to content Cornell University Search toggle menu close About Cornell About Cornell Overview University Facts Maps & Directions Mission & Vision Core Values Locations Ithaca New York City Related Links Diversity Indigenous Engagement Economic Impact Sustainability Global Cornell Leadership Admissions Overview Undergraduate Apply Admissions Dates and Deadlines Costs and Aid Graduate Admissions Fields of Study Financial Support Continuing Education & Summer Sessions Summer Sessions Winter Sessions Part-time Study Academics Academics Overview Fields of Study Colleges & Schools Departments Library Continuing Education Related Links Office of the Provost Academic Calendar Course Catalog Global Learning Learning Goals Research Overview Explore Cornell Research Extreme Talent. Radical Collaboration. Results That Matter. Related Links Vice President for Research and Innovation Centers & Institutes Technology Licensing (CTL) Graduate Research Undergraduate Research OVPRI Research Publications Public Engagement Overview Featured CCE helps Buffalo get school food truck rolling Related Links Cornell Cooperative Extension Engaged Cornell Hub Land Grant to New York State New York State Impact Life at Cornell Life at Cornell Overview Athletics & Recreation Arts & Culture Health & Safety Live, Work, Travel Student Life Related Links Find Your Networks Center for First-Year Students Clubs & Student Groups More Toggle navigation Apply Undergraduate Graduate Visit Give Students Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Search Search Overview Fields of Study Colleges & Schools Departments Library Continuing Education Continuing Education Cornell University is dedicated to making educational and experiential opportunities accessible to the broadest possible range of audiences and participants throughout New York State, our nation, and the world. This is part of our mission, part of our land grant, and part of the role we think every university should serve. Summer College students stroll on the Arts Quad The School of Continuing Education is dedicated to offering educational opportunities year-round Cornell Adult University participants enjoy a variety of classes on campus Summer College students enjoy a game of frisbee A visiting student takes part in Cornell's Research Experience summer program General Continuing Education School of Continuing Education and Summer Sessions Year-round learning opportunities for pretty much anyone: enrolled college students; high school students; Cornell faculty and staff members; executives and other professionals; Cornell alumni, parents, and friends; local residents. We draw from all of Cornell's academic units and vast educational resources—including visiting scholars and leaders in industry, government, and other professions. Admission and enrollment are independent of undergraduate and graduate admissions procedures. Cornell Cooperative Extension (CCE) An outgrowth of Cornell's land-grant mission, CCE has educators in each of New York State's 62 counties (including all five New York City boroughs). We work with communities to make experiences and education accessible through a wide variety of means. Our program areas include community development, the environment, agriculture, family and youth, 4-H youth development, nutrition and health, financial management, and gardening. Executive Education and Professional Development The Samuel Curtis Johnson Graduate School of Management Johnson offers a range of open-enrollment, results-oriented executive education programs geared to the needs of busy professionals. School of Industrial and Labor Relations Our array of executive education and professional development programs explores both U.S. and international aspects of management. These include executive training, labor, workplace and employment, and professional development and enrichment. Cornell Peter and Stephanie Nolan School of Hotel Administration Management trainees and senior executives alike will find that the Nolan School's Office of Executive Education offers a variety of relevant programs for hospitality managers. Formats are flexible and designed to work with you: from courses of varying lengths on campus to opportunities abroad or online. We also work with clients to customize programs. Food Industry Management Program We bring today's and tomorrow's food industry managers together with world-class instructors on our campus. Whether you attend one of our major executive leadership programs or our country- or region-specific international food executive programs, you will find your experience enriched by your fellow attendees as much as by the materials. School of Continuing Education and Summer Sessions In addition to our executive education and professional development programs, we also work with corporations and organizations throughout the world to design continuing education programs to meet their needs. Cornell Outdoor Education COE is the country's largest and most comprehensive collegiate outdoor education program. As a division of COE, Cornell Teambuilding is a nationally recognized leader in the field of experience-based team building and leadership development. We offer hands-on training programs at our facilities in Ithaca and other locations around the country. Continuing Legal Education Cornell Law School Cornell Law School has been certified by the New York State Continuing Legal Education Board as an Accredited Provider of continuing legal education in the State of New York. Continuing Medical Education Weill Cornell Medical College (New York City) Our Continuing Medical Education program provides lifelong educational opportunities for physicians, keeping them current with the latest developments in medicine. The college is accredited by the Accreditation Council for Continuing Medical Education (ACCME). Continuing Education in Veterinary Medicine College of Veterinary Medicine We are considered one of the veterinary community's most valued sources for continuing education. Our programs include subject-specific conferences and symposia, courses, and newsletters—all provided under the guidance of the college's world-renowned and award-winning veterinary faculty. Distance and Distributed Learning Cornell sources of distance and distributed learning resources and programs, both credit and not-for-credit, include: School of Continuing Education and Summer Sessions Distance Learning eCornell CornellCast Cornell-Queen's Executive MBA Program Department of Horticulture online plant grafting course Helpful Links expand menu Academic Calendar Leadership Careers Events News Title IX Emergency Preparedness Visiting Cornell expand menu Campus Tours Maps & Directions Ithaca-NYC Travel Johnson Museum Botanic Gardens Ithaca Ithaca Today expand menu Live View Weather 79°F / 26°C Ithaca, New York University Privacy Web Accessibility Assistance Copyright Site Information Contact Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube