Skip to main content Skip to main navigation Career Center Menu About Us Career Center Staff Mission and Calling Career Day Handshake Information News and Featured Articles Events FAQs Contact Us Students Career Resources Resume Resources Career Courses Interviewing Job Search Find Your Career Success Professional Graduate School Planning Parents Supporting Your Student Parent Guide Newsletter Employers Why Hire a Baylor Student Handshake for Employers Success Data Baylor>Career Center>Success Data Success Data Each semester, graduating students are surveyed about their post-graduation plans. It is based upon these responses that the following report was generated. For mobile users, click this link to view the report in a new page. Pages in report: Information Page Gives overall information on report, shows breakdown of student responses and provides both college and major-level information Employment Page Shows information on students that reported having a full time job opportunity with an employer for after graduation Graduate School Page Shows information on students that reported having been accepted into and planning on attending graduate school after graduation Calculations in Report: These calculations are made in accordance with NACE placement reporting standards. Knowledge Rate (# students that have responded to the survey) / (# students graduating) Placement Rate (# students that have responded that they have accepted a full time job opportunity) / (# students that have accepted a full time job opportunity + # of students that have responded that they are seeking a full time job opportunity) Graduate School Rate (# students that have responded that they have accepted enrollment into a graduate school program) / (# students that have accepted enrollment into a graduate school program + # of students seeking acceptance into a graduate school program) Success Rate (# students that have responded that they have accepted a success*) / (# students that have accepted a success* + # students seeking a full time job opportunity + # students seeking acceptance into a graduate school program) *Success is defined as: Accepted Full Time Employment Accepted Part Time Employment Accepted into a Graduate School Program Serving in the U.S. Armed Forces Accepted a position in a Voluntary Service Instructions for use: Use the menu icon at the top left-hand corner of each page to open the filter pane. Click on the information button at the top righthand corner of the page to see additional information about how to use the page. To undo / reset a filter, select the "Select all" option For full screen viewing, please press the double-sided arrow on the bottom right hand side of the report Disclaimer: Data presented here does not include graduates from: Baylor University Law School, George W. Truett Theological Seminary, or the Louise Herrington School of Nursing. Success Data Baylor University Career Center The Baylor Career Center has three locations. Sid Rich, West Wing (254) 710-3771 Foster, Suite 150 (254) 710-2975 Rogers, Suite 311 (254) 710-7516 careercenter@baylor.edu Make an Appointment On Campus Student Employment Recruit Baylor Students Work in Waco General Information Colleges, Schools, Libraries & Research Admissions Administration Gateways For... About Baylor Anonymous Reporting Athletics Ask Baylor Bookstore Calendar Campus Map Directory Give Light Give to Baylor Illuminate Mental Health Resources News Pro Futuris Report It Search Social Media Title IX Baylor Libraries College of Arts & Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work George W. Truett Theological Seminary Graduate School Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Louise Herrington School of Nursing Research at Baylor University Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Engineering & Computer Science School of Music More Academics Undergraduate Admissions goBAYLOR Graduate Admissions Baylor Law School Admissions Social Work Graduate Programs George W. Truett Theological Seminary Admissions Online Graduate Professional Education Virtual Tour Visit Campus Annual Fire Safety and Security Notice Athletics Human Resources Marketing and Communications Office of General Counsel Office of the President Office of the Provost Operations, Finance & Administration Senior Administration Student Life University Advancement Baylor Alumni Faculty & Staff Online Graduate Professional Education Parents Prospective Faculty & Staff Prospective Students Students Copyright © Baylor® University. All rights reserved. Legal Disclosures. Baylor University • Waco, Texas 76798 • 1-800-229-5678 About Us Career Center Staff Mission and Calling Career Day Handshake Information News and Featured Articles Events FAQs Contact Us Students Career Resources Resume Resources Career Courses Interviewing Job Search Find Your Career Success Professional Graduate School Planning Parents Supporting Your Student Parent Guide Newsletter Employers Why Hire a Baylor Student Handshake for Employers Success Data