Skip to main content Skip to primary site menu Google Tag Manager Search form Search Explore Brown University Search Global Navigation Learn More About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life Find A to Z Index People Directory Information for Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Top Destinations Global Brown Watson Institute Graduate School Alpert Medical School School of Public Health School of Engineering President's Staff Advisory Council Home About Members Events Staff Resources Get Involved Serving on SAC University Advisory Boards & Committees Volunteer Opportunities Site Navigation Home About Meeting Minutes & Summaries Bylaws Reports Members Subcommittees Previous Members Events Faculty in Focus Lunchtime Events Meet & Mingles BEARtalks & Brown Bag Lunches Staff First Reading Program Staff Resources Get Involved Serving on SAC University Advisory Boards & Committees Volunteer Opportunities University Advisory Boards & Committees Below is a listing of all the University advisory boards and committees for which SAC recommends staff members. If you have questions regarding the appointment process please contact [email protected] Click on each committee name to learn more: University Resource Committee Human Resources Advisory Board Campus Planning Advisory Board Information-Technology Advisory Board Diversity Advisory Board Advisory Committee on Corporate Responsibility in Investment Policies Public Safety Oversight Committee University Resource Committee (URC) Current Staff Members Name Department Term Start Term End Patricia Putney University Library April 2016 April 2018 Katherine Tameo Campus Life & Student Services January 2015 January 2017 Charge The University Resources Committee (URC) is a standing committee of the faculty, chaired by the Provost, and consists of seven faculty members, six administrators as ex-officio members, two staff members, and seven students. The administrators include the Provost; Executive Vice President for Planning; Executive Vice President for Finance and Administration; the Dean of the Faculty; the Dean of Medicine and Biological Sciences, and the Dean of the School of Public Health. The student members shall include four from The College, two from the Graduate School, and one from the Medical School. The Provost is the Chair ex officio. The Vice Chair shall be a faculty member in his/her second year of service on the Committee. Normally the Vice Chair shall be elected by the committee at the start of the term of the new members. For a list of members, click here. The University Resources Committee (URC) is responsible for recommending the annual operating and capital budget to the President. Human Resources Advisory Board (HRAB) Current Staff Members Name Department Term Start Term End Isaac Albanese Student Activities Office June 2016 June 2018 Lisa Galvin University Human Resources June 2014 June 2017 Jesse Marsh Ecology & Evolutionary Biology June 2015 June 2017 Christina Provencal Research Protections Office June 2014 June 2017 Jill Rossi Alumni Relations June 2015 June 2017 Shannon Silva Ecology & Evolutionary Biology June 2016 June 2018 Charge The Human Resources Advisory Board reviews and makes recommendations concerning policies, programs, and initiatives designed to support and promote the intellectual and professional development of the university's workforce. The Board considers such matters as the training and support provided to staff and faculty serving in administrative roles; orientation and support for new members of the work force; and the promotion of a healthy community within and between departments. The Board reviews and makes recommendations concerning existing and proposed hiring and recruitment procedures and policies and compensation and benefits policies and programs for University faculty and staff. With regard to faculty benefits and awards, the Human Resources Advisory Board coordinates with, and does not duplicate, the work of the CFED (Committee on Faculty Equity and Diversity). Membership Members shall consist of the Vice President for Human Resources, four faculty members (one being a current member of the CFED), and six staff members. Members shall serve staggered two-year terms. Director of Benefits shall serve as an ex officio, non-voting member. Faculty members are appointed by the Vice President for Human Resources with advice from the Committee on Nominations. Staff members are appointed by the Vice President for Human Resources with advice from the Staff Advisory Committee (SAC). Campus Planning Advisory Board (CPAB) Current Staff Members Name Department Term Start Term End Kate Duggan Office of the Vice President of Research September 2016 December 2018 Peter Mackie University Library September 2016 December 2018 Charge The Campus Planning Advisory Board (CPAB) shall review and make recommendations concerning the University’s Master Plan for the physical campus; matters relating to the long-range development of the physical campus; proposals for new facilities and significant renovations or landscaping projects; and other matters related to the current and future utilization of the physical campus. The Board will also organize its work with other boards and committees where there are special issues of overlapping interest, particularly on housing. The Campus Planning Advisory Board shall, through the Chair and Vice Chair, provide regular input and feedback on matters pertaining to the physical campus to the President and the Corporation Committee on Facilities & Design. Membership The members shall consist of the Executive Vice President for Planning, the Associate Provost designated to deal with campus planning issues, four faculty members, two staff members, and one undergraduate, one graduate, and one medical student. Members shall serve staggered two-year terms. The Provost or his or her designee, the Associate Vice President for Facilities Management and the Director of Planning shall serve as ex-officio, non-voting members. Information-Technology Advisory Board (ITAB) Current Staff Members Name Department Term Start Term End Jeffrey Hiris Center for Gerontology and Health Care Research 2007 -- Darlene Williamson Office of University Events and Conference Services 2010 -- Charge The Information Technology Advisory Board shall serve to advise the Chief Information Officer, and other senior officers as appropriate, on resources and priorities concerning all aspects of computing, information management, and communication technology. The Information-Technology Advisory Board shall review and make recommendations concerning the University's planning and implementation of plans for current and proposed computing and information technologies. The Board shall review and make recommendations with regard to policies consistent with the goals and objectives of the University for the proper use of computing resources by faculty, staff, and students. Its goals include the enhancement of the faculty and student academic environment through the effective use of computing and communication technology, including appropriate computing, information, and communication support for teaching and research. The Information-Technology Advisory Board shall also be a source of input and feedback regarding matters of administrative computing, communication, and information technology needs and requirements. Membership The members shall consist of the Chief Information Officer, six faculty members representative of academic grouping as listed in Section 12, II, whenever possible, two staff members, two undergraduates, two graduate students, and one medical student. Faculty members shall serve staggered three-year terms. Staff and student members shall serve staggered two-year terms. The University Librarian and Director of the Center for computation and visualization shall be ex-officio members. Diversity Advisory Board (DAB) Current Staff Members Name Department Term Start Term End Gillian Bell CIS June 2016 June 2018 Isabella Dueñas Residential Life June 2016 June 2018 Charge The Diversity Advisory Board is a broadly representative, deliberative group that meets to consider matters that concern the campus community especially with regards to diversity. Its mission concerns the well-being of the community—its capacity for collegiality and the pursuit of the commonweal while preserving an excellent education for all students. The goals of the Committee shall include, but not be limited to the following: To work with and advise the Associate Provost and Director of Institutional Diversity and other senior officers as appropriate concerning the promotion of diversity and the development of a welcoming and inclusive campus climate. Identify ways to educate the community about diversity and provide guidance for dealing with community issues. To develop an effective means of communication about diversity issues with all segments of the community. Membership The membership shall consist of the Associate Provost and Director of Institutional Diversity; the Vice President for Campus Life and Student Services; a minimum of three faculty members; a minimum of two undergraduate students, two graduate students and two medical students; and a minimum of four staff members. Members shall serve staggered two-year terms. Brown University Community Council (BUCC) Current Staff Members Name Department Term Start Term End Kelly Garrett LGBTQ Center January 2014 December 2017 Leora Johnson Alumni Relations January 2013 December 2017 Aixa Kidd CareerLAB January 2016 December 2018 Brendan McNally Business, Entrepreneurship, and Organizations January 2014 December 2016 Michelle Nuey Public Safety September 2016 December 2018 Linda Welsh Counseling and Psychological Services January 2014 December 2018 Charge The Brown University Community Council serves as a university-wide representative forum for discussion, debate, and advisory recommendations on a wide spectrum of issues and concerns. It may, at its discretion, consider and advance questions of University community policy, the governing of the University, and issues related to the overall welfare of the University; and to make recommendations regarding any such matters to the appropriate decision-making bodies of the University or to the appropriate officers of the University. Membership The membership of the Brown University Community Council shall consist of: the President of the University (Chair), the Provost, and at least four members of the President's Cabinet appointed to the Council each year by the President; one current member of the Corporation appointed to the Council each year by the Chancellor; ten members of the Faculty, among whom each division must be represented by at least one member and the non-tenured Faculty by at least two members; five undergraduate students, three graduate students, and two medical students, among whom shall be the Presidents of the Undergraduate Council of Students, the Graduate Student Council and the Medical Student Senate; six members of the staff; and four alumni of the University. Advisory Committee on Corporate Responsibility in Investment Policies (ACCRIP) Current Staff Members Name Department Term Start Term End Caitlin Murphy Center for the Study of Race and Ethnicity in America June 2015 June 2017 Katie Silberman Community & Government Relations October 2016 October 2018 Charge The Advisory Committee on Corporate Responsibility in Investment Policies (ACCRIP) considers issues of ethical and moral responsibility in the investment policies of Brown University. Committee members include students, faculty, staff and alumni of the University. ACCRIP examines all proxy resolutions concerning issues of social responsibility that are presented to the University as a shareholder, and has developed guidelines for voting on such resolutions. Meetings are open to all. Groups or individual members from the Brown University community -- students, faculty, staff, alumni -- are encouraged to bring to the attention of ACCRIP ethical and moral issues or issues of alleged social harm with respect to the activities of corporations in which the University is an investor. (For details on the jurisdiction of the committee, see the committee's charter.) Public Safety Oversight Committee (PSOC) Current Staff Members Name Department Term Start Term End Pat Falcon Information Security Group (CIS) June 2016 June 2018 Peter Holden Facilities Planning and Operations June 2015 June 2017 Charge The Public Safety Oversight Committee (PSOC) was established to serve in an advisory capacity to the Executive Vice President for Planning & Policy and the Chief of Police for the purpose of reviewing the practices, policies and procedures of the Department of Public Safety, and making policy recommendations where appropriate. Membership The PSOC will be comprised of seventeen regular members appointed for terms of two years. Initial appointments will be made for one or two years to facilitate staggered terms such that approximately one-half the appointments will expire each year. The membership will consist of the following: three faculty appointed by faculty in accordance with the Faculty Rules and Regulations; three administrators appointed by the Executive Vice President for Planning & Policy; two members of the Department of Public Safety appointed by the Chief of Police; three undergraduate students appointed by the Undergraduate Council of Students; one medical student appointed by the Medical Student Council; one graduate student appointed by the Graduate Student Council; two staff members appointed by the Staff Advisory Council and two individuals external to the University appointed by the Senior Vice-President for Corporation Affairs and Governance. In addition to the regular members the Chief of Police, the Executive Vice President for Planning & Policy, the Vice President for Campus Life and Student Services or his/her designee, and the Chair of the OCRB will serve as ex officio members of the PSOC. Get Involved Serving on SAC University Advisory Boards & Committees Volunteer Opportunities President's Staff Advisory Council President's Staff Advisory Council Brown University Providence, RI 02912 Phone: 401-863-1000 Email [email protected] Facebook Facebook Instagram Instagram Brown University Giving to Brown Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA 401-863-1000 Contact Us Maps Directions Career Opportunities Campus Safety Accessibility All Social Media © 2022 Brown University | Back to top