Emergency Notification: COVID-19 Visit the Health Advisories website for the latest updates, FAQs, vaccination information, and to Report a Case. Skip to main content San José State University Visit Apply Give Menu Visit Campus Tours Maps Parking Silicon Valley Hammer Theatre SJSU Loves SJ Academics Colleges and Departments Majors and Programs Centers and Institutes Academic Calendar Classes King Library Admissions Tuition and Fees Housing Professional Education Parent and Family Programs Campus Life Health and Wellness Safety SJSU Cares Events Traditions Student Alumni Connection Research and Innovation Office of Research SJSU Research Foundation Student-Faculty Collaborations Become a Research Partner About Administration and Leadership Facts and Accomplishments Partnerships Transformation Defined SJSU on Facebook SJSU on Twitter SJSU on LinkedIn SJSU on Instagram SJSU on YouTube Athletics Alumni Association Giving to SJSU Canvas one.SJSU Search University Menu .Go toSJSU homepage. Visit Campus Tours Maps Parking Silicon Valley Hammer Theatre SJSU Loves SJ Academics Colleges and Departments Majors and Programs Centers and Institutes Academic Calendar Classes King Library Admissions Tuition and Fees Housing Professional Education Parents and Family Programs Campus Life Health and Wellness Safety SJSU Cares Events Traditions Student Alumni Connection Research and Innovation Office of Research SJSU Research Foundation Student-Faculty Collaborations Become a Research Partner Athletics About Administration and Leadership Facts and Accomplishments Partnerships Transformation Defined About Photo: Jim Gensheimer Congratulations to Our Class of 2022! We’re incredibly proud of all the Spartans who graduated this week. Your SJSU bucket list is now complete, Class of 2022! We can’t wait to see what you do next! #1 Most Transformative University Ranked by Money magazine based on graduation rates, earnings and student loan repayment. #4 Best Undergraduate Engineering Program Ranked by U.S. News and World Report among Public Universities that offer bachelor’s and master’s degrees. #13 Top Colleges for Diversity in the Nation Ranked by Wall Street Journal/Times Higher Education (WSJ/THE) among colleges and universities in the nation for diversity in school environments. SJSU Presidential Search The CSU Board of Trustees has launched a nationwide search for the next president of SJSU. Learn more about how members of the campus and surrounding communities can participate. News SJSU Shines in 2022 Times Higher Education and Money Magazine Rankings Update from CSU Interim Chancellor Jolene Koester Spartans Make Historic Run at NCAA Championships Updates on SJSU Athletics Department Investigations View All News Events Event On May 25-27 Spring 2022 Commencement Event On May 30 Prospective Graduate Student Drop-in Advising Event On May 31 Collect and Manage Your Data With Google Forms and Google Sheets Event On June 1 Gradescope for Assessments and Feedback 2022 View All Events Why Choose SJSU? Shaping the Future of Student Success San José State provides a world-class education—whether courses are online or in person. The university is expanding the ways we provide high-quality education and unique research and hands-on experiences to students. Research How a ‘Lucky Accident’ Contributed to Nobel Prize-Winning Research Thanks, in part, to research conducted by Assistant Professor of Biology Katie Wilkinson and two of her undergraduate students — two California scientists won this year’s 2021 Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine. Creativity Listen to “The Accidental Geographer” Season 2 Hosted by our very own Provost, Vincent del Casino, “The Accidental Geographer” is designed to introduce the expertise of SJSU faculty, whose research, teaching, and commitments to community engagement bring life to this cutting-edge university. Available on your favorite podcast platforms. San José State University SJSU on Facebook SJSU on Twitter SJSU on LinkedIn SJSU on Instagram SJSU on YouTube One Washington Square San José, CA 95192 408-924-1000 Accessibility Accreditation Title IX Diversity Land Acknowledgement Privacy Colleges Business Education Engineering Graduate Studies Health and Human Sciences Humanities and the Arts Professional and Global Education Science Social Sciences Resources A-Z Index Annual Security Report [pdf] Bookstore Calendars Careers and Jobs Catalog Current Students Emergency Food & Housing King Library Parking and Maps Contact Us Contact Form Directory Doing Business with SJSU Emergency Info Report a Web Problem Report a Title IX Complaint Last Updated May 28, 2022