Skip to main content Skip to primary site menu Google Tag Manager Search form Search Explore Brown University Search Global Navigation Learn More About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life Find A to Z Index People Directory Information for Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Top Destinations Global Brown Watson Institute Graduate School Alpert Medical School School of Public Health School of Engineering Office of Government & Community Relations Home Who We Are Global Excellence, Local Impact Local Economic Benefit Resources Site Navigation Home Who We Are Global Excellence, Local Impact Local Economic Benefit Resources Who We Are Albert Dahlberg Assistant Vice President, Government & Community Relations (401) 369-4613 [email protected] As the Assistant Vice President, Government & Community Relations, Al oversees the operations and strategic direction of the office. He represents the University in the community, in associations and is the primary liaison for the University in the state house and city hall. Prior to joining Brown, Al was Deputy Rhode Island Secretary of State and Chief of Staff to the Rhode Island Secretary of State. He previously worked at the US EPA and the Senate Environment & Public Works Committee as Counsel on clean air issues. Al graduated from Georgetown University and Boston College Law School. Steve Gerencser Director of Government Relations (401) 369-5963 [email protected] Steve is Brown’s primary liaison to the federal government, tracking legislation and administrative rule-making that affects the University, and is active in Brown’s city- and state-level policy work. Previously, Steve was Deputy Rhode Island Secretary of State and Chief of Staff to the Rhode Island Secretary of State, and worked at the U.S. Senate Committee on Banking, Housing and Urban Affairs as the Senior Advisor to the Chairman. Steve graduated from the University of Vermont. Katie Silberman Director of Community Relations (401) 863-3717 [email protected] Katie collaborates with Brown colleagues on community-facing issues; represents Brown publicly at community meetings and other events; helps community groups and individuals connect with and navigate Brown; and responds to requests from neighbors. Katie was previously Associate Director of the Science & Environmental Health Network, a national non-profit organization. She holds her BA with Honors from Brown, and her JD from the University of California, Hastings College of the Law. Jesse Poon Assistant Director, Federal Relations (401) 527-9284 [email protected] As the Assistant Director, Federal Relations, Jesse interfaces with Congress and federal government agencies. Prior to joining Brown, he served as Principal of Government Relations at Lewis-Burke Associates LLC, where he advocated on behalf of public and private universities, research organizations, and scientific societies. A native Rhode Islander, Jesse graduated from Tufts University. Jesse will be based in Washington, DC. Sponsorship: If you would like to request that Brown sponsor your non-profit event, please email [email protected]. Neighbor comments or questions: please email [email protected]. Our Values Attentive Anticipate and respond to the needs of Brown’s internal and external communities. Ethical Practice integrity and thoughtful decision-making in doing what is best for Brown. Collaborative Nurture relationships with Brown’s internal and external communities and identify opportunities to work together. Office of Government & Community Relations Office of Government & Community Relations Brown University Box 1975 Providence, RI 02912 Phone: 401-863-3717 Email [email protected] Twitter Twitter Facebook Facebook Brown University Giving to Brown Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA 401-863-1000 Contact Us Maps Directions Career Opportunities Campus Safety Accessibility All Social Media © 2022 Brown University | Back to top