Skip to Main Content Brown University News from Brown Site Navigation Featured Events For Journalists Search Menu 2019 News Breadcrumb Home News from Brown All News News Search News Archive 2022 2021 2020 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 All Previous Years Subscribe to our weekly newsletter 270 Results based on your selections. News and Events Graduate School dean to lead Council for Graduate Schools board December 20, 2019 Dean Andrew G. Campbell will serve as chair-elect in 2020 for the national graduate education and research organization before stepping into the role of chair in 2021. Read Article Open details for Graduate School dean to lead Council for Graduate Schools board News and Events The year in stories — 2019 December 19, 2019 As the Brown community bids farewell to 2019 and ushers in a new decade, here are 21 highlights from Brown’s most noteworthy and best-loved stories from the last year. Read Article Open details for The year in stories — 2019 Science and Technology Undergraduate maker finds home in engineering research lab December 19, 2019 Brown junior Ian Ho’s penchant for building things has made him an integral part of a School of Engineering research lab, an experience helping to shape his future. Read Article Open details for Undergraduate maker finds home in engineering research lab Science and Technology Researchers directly measure ‘Cheerios effect’ forces for the first time December 19, 2019 In a finding that could be useful in designing small aquatic robots, researchers have measured the forces that cause small objects to cluster together on the surface of a liquid — a phenomenon known as the “Cheerios effect.” Read Article Open details for Researchers directly measure ‘Cheerios effect’ forces for the first time Health and Medicine Big data, small state: R.I. database offers the potential for efficient, improved health care December 18, 2019 Researchers at the Brown-based, federally funded Advance-CTR program are using Rhode Island’s All-Payer Claims Database to improve health care and train the next generation of health care scholars. Read Article Open details for Big data, small state: R.I. database offers the potential for efficient, improved health care Science and Technology Research provides new design principle for water-splitting catalysts December 18, 2019 Understanding why platinum is such a good catalyst for producing hydrogen from water could lead to new and cheaper catalysts — and could ultimately make more hydrogen available for fossil-free fuels and chemicals. Read Article Open details for Research provides new design principle for water-splitting catalysts News and Events Brown senior, recent alumni awarded prestigious Marshall, Schwarzman scholarships December 18, 2019 Class of 2020 student Ryan Saadeh is among the recipients of the Marshall Scholarship, which allows for post-graduate study in the United Kingdom, while three recent alumni will head to Tsinghua University in Beijing as Schwarzman scholars. Read Article Open details for Brown senior, recent alumni awarded prestigious Marshall, Schwarzman scholarships Social Sciences Climate change legislation, media coverage drives ad spending by oil companies, study finds December 17, 2019 An analysis led by an Institute at Brown for Environment and Society visiting professor found that oil companies ramp up advertising campaigns when they face negative media coverage or new regulations. Read Article Open details for Climate change legislation, media coverage drives ad spending by oil companies, study finds Health and Medicine New industry partnership to accelerate research on flu vaccines for the elderly December 13, 2019 A three year $2.1 million research agreement with Insight Therapeutics will enable a team of Brown researchers to compare the effectiveness of flu vaccines in approximately 1,000 nursing homes. Read Article Open details for New industry partnership to accelerate research on flu vaccines for the elderly Arts and Humanities Boatbuilding course at Brown includes equal parts discussion and construction December 12, 2019 In “Boatbuilding: Design, Making and Culture,” at once a humanities seminar and a hands-on engineering lesson, students from concentrations across the University built and launched a wooden boat. Read Article Open details for Boatbuilding course at Brown includes equal parts discussion and construction News and Events Brown admits 800 early decision applicants December 12, 2019 Selected from a pool of 4,562 applicants, the Class of 2024’s first members reflect an expanding array of initiatives aimed at making a Brown education more accessible to students from every socioeconomic background. Read Article Open details for Brown admits 800 early decision applicants Science and Technology Researchers reconstruct spoken words as processed in nonhuman primate brains December 12, 2019 Using a brain-computer interface, a team of researchers has reconstructed English words from the brain activity of rhesus macaques that listened as the words were spoken. Read Article Open details for Researchers reconstruct spoken words as processed in nonhuman primate brains University Initiatives Brown celebrates five years of achievement under Building on Distinction December 10, 2019 After reaching the midpoint of its 10-year strategic plan in 2019, the University released a report highlighting the many accomplishments that have contributed to fulfilling the plan’s vision. Read Article Open details for Brown celebrates five years of achievement under Building on Distinction Health and Medicine New grant will fund clinical trial of a novel approach to treating Alzheimer’s December 10, 2019 A major grant from the Alzheimer’s Association will enable researchers to test a drug that could reduce brain inflammation in Alzheimer’s patients and possibly slow the progression of the disease. Read Article Open details for New grant will fund clinical trial of a novel approach to treating Alzheimer’s Science and Technology On Capitol Hill, Brown’s vice president for research urges more study on quantum technology December 6, 2019 Jill Pipher, a mathematics professor, cryptography expert and president of the American Mathematical Society, said quantum technology brings both great scientific potential and threats to security and privacy. Read Article Open details for On Capitol Hill, Brown’s vice president for research urges more study on quantum technology News and Events Midyear completion students carve out their own space on way to graduation December 5, 2019 Brown’s annual Midyear Completion Ceremony on Saturday, Dec. 7, will celebrate the achievements and unique paths of “.5ers,” who complete their degree requirements this month. Read Article Open details for Midyear completion students carve out their own space on way to graduation Health and Medicine Mindfulness training may help lower blood pressure, new study shows December 4, 2019 A study at Brown University finds that mindfulness could reduce blood pressure by enhancing attention control, emotion regulation and self-awareness of both healthy and unhealthy habits. Read Article Open details for Mindfulness training may help lower blood pressure, new study shows Science and Technology Researchers demonstrate strange melting point phenomenon in metals December 3, 2019 Quantum mechanical calculations show that the melting point of metals decreases at extreme pressure, meaning even high-density metals can have a liquid phase that’s actually denser than its normal solid phase. Read Article Open details for Researchers demonstrate strange melting point phenomenon in metals Arts and Humanities Students uncover uncharted histories of the slave trade for upcoming documentary series December 3, 2019 On the 400th anniversary of the start of slave trade in the British American colonies, students and faculty at Brown’s Center for the Study of Slavery and Justice are engaging in research for a PBS miniseries directed by renowned documentarian Stanley Nelson, hosting a two-day symposium on the lasting effects of slavery and more. Read Article Open details for Students uncover uncharted histories of the slave trade for upcoming documentary series News and Events Finance leader Michael White appointed vice president and CFO at Brown December 2, 2019 With more than 25 years of experience in higher education, White will lead financial planning and operations for Brown to advance essential growth and ensure long-term financial security. Read Article Open details for Finance leader Michael White appointed vice president and CFO at Brown Social Sciences Poll reveals generational, political divides over economic outlook December 2, 2019 Asked whether the economy is doing well, Americans do not see eye to eye, according to a new poll from Brown’s Taubman Center — they do agree that the government cannot be trusted and that school safety is under threat. Read Article Open details for Poll reveals generational, political divides over economic outlook Health and Medicine A game-changer in the fight against Ebola November 27, 2019 Dr. Adam Levine, an emergency physician and leader of the Center for Human Rights and Humanitarian Studies, played a key role on a clinical trial evaluating promising new treatments for Ebola virus disease. Read Article Open details for A game-changer in the fight against Ebola Environment Where will we go when the water rises? Computer models may hold answers, research says November 26, 2019 Computer models focused on current and potential policy decisions could help shed light on the future of migration caused by sea level rise, concluded a team of scholars that included Brown demographer Elizabeth Fussell. Read Article Open details for Where will we go when the water rises? Computer models may hold answers, research says Science and Technology Applied mathematics, medical professors at Brown named AAAS fellows November 26, 2019 Professors Kavita Ramanan and Dr. Jack Wands earned recognition for their distinguished contributions to science by the American Association for the Advancement of Science, the world’s largest general scientific body. Read Article Open details for Applied mathematics, medical professors at Brown named AAAS fellows Science and Technology Scientists inch closer than ever to signal from cosmic dawn November 26, 2019 Researchers using the Murchison Widefield Array radio telescope have taken a new and significant step toward detecting a signal from the period in cosmic history when the first stars lit up the universe. Read Article Open details for Scientists inch closer than ever to signal from cosmic dawn Science and Technology Brown cryptography expert testifies on data security before U.S. House committee November 25, 2019 Seny Kamara, an associate professor of computer science, told a U.S. House Financial Services Committee Task Force that there is more that companies could be doing to keep sensitive financial data safe. Read Article Open details for Brown cryptography expert testifies on data security before U.S. House committee News and Events Brown senior named one of nation’s 32 Rhodes Scholars November 25, 2019 Camila Pelsinger, an international relations concentrator from San Francisco, will pursue graduate studies at Oxford through one of the most prestigious awards for international study. Read Article Open details for Brown senior named one of nation’s 32 Rhodes Scholars University Initiatives Brown joins legal brief to urge continued practical training for international students November 25, 2019 The future of Optional Practical Training, a long-standing federal program that enables temporary employment for international students at American colleges and universities, is at stake in a U.S. District Court case. Read Article Open details for Brown joins legal brief to urge continued practical training for international students Health and Medicine R.I. researchers, policymakers outline new framework for opioid use disorder treatment November 19, 2019 Aiming to reduce treatment gaps and guide state policy, a diverse set of voices from Brown University and the State of Rhode Island developed a cascade of care model for opioid use disorder. Read Article Open details for R.I. researchers, policymakers outline new framework for opioid use disorder treatment News and Events At discussion among R.I. leaders, higher education takes center stage November 14, 2019 Brown President Christina H. Paxson discussed college affordability and other opportunities and challenges alongside other leaders at a Boston Globe discussion on the future of Rhode Island. Read Article Open details for At discussion among R.I. leaders, higher education takes center stage Science and Technology Research reveals new state of matter: a Cooper pair metal November 14, 2019 In a finding that reveals an entirely new state of matter, research published in the journal Science shows that Cooper pairs, electron duos that enable superconductivity, can also conduct electricity like normal metals do. Read Article Open details for Research reveals new state of matter: a Cooper pair metal Science and Technology National Society of Black Physicists conference comes to Providence November 13, 2019 Stephon Alexander, Brown professor and president-elect of the National Society for Black Physicists, discusses the organization’s annual conference, which comes to Providence for the first time this year. Read Article Open details for National Society of Black Physicists conference comes to Providence Social Sciences The cost of the global war on terror: $6.4 trillion and 801,000 lives November 13, 2019 Two reports released by the Costs of War project, based at Brown, provide a comprehensive estimate of the financial and human cost of America’s post-9/11 wars. Read Article Open details for The cost of the global war on terror: $6.4 trillion and 801,000 lives Science and Technology At future Mars landing spot, scientists spy mineral that could preserve signs of ancient life November 12, 2019 Using orbital instruments to peer into Jezero crater, the landing site for NASA’s Mars 2020 rover, researchers found deposits of hydrated silica, a mineral that’s great at preserving microfossils and other signs of life. Read Article Open details for At future Mars landing spot, scientists spy mineral that could preserve signs of ancient life Social Sciences Are men animals? In new book, a Brown anthropologist investigates November 12, 2019 Matthew Gutmann’s book “Are Men Animals?”, out on Tuesday, Nov. 12, traces the origins of the claim that “boys will be boys” — and refutes it. Read Article Open details for Are men animals? In new book, a Brown anthropologist investigates University Initiatives Brown to double number of U.S. military veterans enrolled as undergrads by 2024 November 11, 2019 At Brown’s annual Veterans Day ceremony, President Christina H. Paxson announced plans for increased financial aid for student veterans, need-blind and test-optional admission policies and new partnerships to increase the number of veterans at Brown. Read Article Open details for Brown to double number of U.S. military veterans enrolled as undergrads by 2024 Science and Technology Tackling turbulence: Researchers to take new look at an old problem in physics November 7, 2019 Physics professor Brad Marston is part of an international project supported by a $4 million grant from the Simons Foundation to study turbulence, one of the great unsolved problems of classical physics. Read Article Open details for Tackling turbulence: Researchers to take new look at an old problem in physics News and Events Susan Rice: Love fiercely, but not uncritically November 6, 2019 In a visit hosted by Brown University’s Taubman Center for American Politics and Policy, the former national security advisor shared crucial — and surprising — insights from her decades-long diplomatic career. Read Article Open details for Susan Rice: Love fiercely, but not uncritically Health and Medicine Researchers identify potential nanotechnology therapy for rare, incurable bone cancer November 6, 2019 A Warren Alpert Medical School and Rhode Island Hospital cancer physician collaborates with molecular researcher to study use of nanotechnology to deliver medicine inside cancer cells. Read Article Open details for Researchers identify potential nanotechnology therapy for rare, incurable bone cancer Science and Technology New federal awards highlight Brown’s quantum expertise across academic departments November 6, 2019 Leveraging expertise across engineering, chemistry and more, Brown physicists are leading four new federally funded research projects in quantum science. Read Article Open details for New federal awards highlight Brown’s quantum expertise across academic departments Science and Technology $2 million grant will support development of ‘magnetic camera’ November 6, 2019 Researchers at Brown will build quantum mechanical magnetic camera to image magnetic fields, which could help in better understanding and manipulating quantum materials. Read Article Open details for $2 million grant will support development of ‘magnetic camera’ Arts and Humanities Faculty artist brings bold, bright colors to the Bell Gallery November 6, 2019 “Luscious: Paintings and Drawings by Wendy Edwards,” an exhibition of selected works by the Brown professor of visual art, offers an artistic chronicle of 40 years of travel, life changes and perspective shifts. Read Article Open details for Faculty artist brings bold, bright colors to the Bell Gallery Environment Study of African animals illuminates links between environment, diet and gut microbiome November 4, 2019 New research analyzing the diets and microbiomes of 33 large-herbivore species in Kenya yields surprising findings about the interplay between animal evolution, behavior and the gut microbiome. Read Article Open details for Study of African animals illuminates links between environment, diet and gut microbiome Science and Technology Scientists reveal the physics of Jackson Pollock’s painting technique October 30, 2019 A study finds that Pollock’s “drip” technique was geared to avoid a classic fluid mechanical instability, whether he was aware of it or not. Read Article Open details for Scientists reveal the physics of Jackson Pollock’s painting technique Health and Medicine In confronting opioid crisis, researchers to test neighborhood-based interventions, fentanyl test strips October 29, 2019 Nearly $6.8 million in new federal grants will enable researchers to collaborate with agencies across the state, including the Rhode Island Department of Health, to investigate innovative ways to tackle the opioid crisis. Read Article Open details for In confronting opioid crisis, researchers to test neighborhood-based interventions, fentanyl test strips News and Events Brown celebrates Nelson Center for Entrepreneurship’s dedicated new home October 28, 2019 Celebration recognizes the impact already being made in the collaborative, configurable space home to the Nelson Center, recently recognized as one of the globe’s outstanding emerging entrepreneurship centers. Read Article Open details for Brown celebrates Nelson Center for Entrepreneurship’s dedicated new home University Initiatives Brown publishes gift acceptance policy reflecting updates approved by Corporation October 27, 2019 Updated policy further defines the principles by which gifts are accepted that advance Brown’s mission. Read Article Open details for Brown publishes gift acceptance policy reflecting updates approved by Corporation Arts and Humanities Brown archaeologists, students dig up new insights in Central Greece October 23, 2019 Recent discoveries by Brown faculty and students at the ancient Koutroulou Magoula settlement have prompted scholars to reconsider their assumptions about the Middle Neolithic period. Read Article Open details for Brown archaeologists, students dig up new insights in Central Greece News and Events Open Curriculum celebration infuses Family and Alumni Fall Weekend October 19, 2019 As Brown’s distinctive, student-driven approach to teaching and learning marks its 50th anniversary, weekend events honored the pioneers who paved its way and enabled students and families to hear from alumni about its impact on lives and careers. Read Article Open details for Open Curriculum celebration infuses Family and Alumni Fall Weekend Science and Technology New augmented reality system lets smartphone users get hands-on with virtual objects October 16, 2019 Developed at Brown University, a new augmented reality system places virtual objects within real-world backgrounds on cell phone screens and lets people interact with those object by hand as if they were really there. Read Article Open details for New augmented reality system lets smartphone users get hands-on with virtual objects Previous 1 2 3 4 5 6 Next Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown Social Navigation Facebook Instagram LinkedIn Snapchat Twitter YouTube Social Media Directory © Brown University Brown University For You Current Students Faculty Staff Parents & Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Featured Events For Journalists Topics Arts and Humanities Environment Health and Medicine News and Events Science and Technology Social Sciences Student Life University Initiatives Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation About Events For You Give to Brown All of Brown.edu People News Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search 2019 News Open details for 2019 News Bookmark this Page