Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Athletics Athletics Information For Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff Search BC.edu Links Campus Recreation Menu Main Nav Campus Recreation Member Portal Back Back Close About Overview Hours Facilities Margot Connell Recreation Center Naming Opportunities Quonset Hut Directions Student Employment Student Staff Advisory Board Student Staff Achievement Award Equipment Checkout & Sales Staff Directory Rules & Policies Comments Marketing Member Services Overview Membership Fees Cancellation & Refund Policies Refund & Cancellation Form FAQ International Engagement Recreation Overview Resources for Well-Being Aquatics Dance Outdoor Adventures Gear Rentals Wild Eagles Leadership Development Cancellations & Refund Policy Indoor Climbing Wall Golf Simulator Fitness Overview Group Fitness Group Fitness Instructors Virtual Group Fitness Classes Personal Training Fitness Outreach Healthy You Small Group Training Special Events Sports Overview Club Sports Executive Board Athletic Training FAQ Intramurals Registration Code of Conduct Sport Rules Related Links Varsity Athletics Athletics Facilities Youth Programs Overview Summer Day Camp Youth Swim Lessons Member Portal Close Directory A to Z Listing Search BC Rec Search BC.edu Find pages or people Search Close Close Apply Visit Give Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close Group Fitness Home Fitness Group Fitness Group Fitness Group Fitness Instructors Virtual Group Fitness Classes Group Fitness Options Campus Recreation offers group fitness classes to all members free of charge. You must pre-register for group fitness classes up to 24 hours in advance. Upon registration, you will be assigned a spot on the floor that will assist with physical distancing per university and government regulations. Walk-up spots are not available. Group fitness classes are free to all members. MPR A: Mind/Body Studio MPR B: Spin Studio MPR D: Studio 316 Summer 2022 Group Fitness Schedule MPR A: Mind/Body Studio Located on the 2nd Floor, left of the stairs Monday Tuesday Wednesday Thursday Friday Saturday Sunday 6:30am - Vinyasa Yoga Cory E - Vinyasa Yoga Ava W - - - 7:15am - - Yoga Courtney J - - - - 5:30pm - - BODYCOMBAT Caroline V Yoga Cory E - - - Summer 2022 Group Fitness Schedule MPR B: Spin Studio Located on the 2nd Floor, next to the Aquatics Center Observation Deck Monday Tuesday Wednesday Thursday Friday Saturday Sunday 7:15am Spin 45 Caroline V - Spin 45 Kristen A (7:00am) - - - - 12:00pm Spin 45 Lindsey W - - Spin 45 Kiley C Spin 45 Kiley C - - 5:15pm Spin 45 Kiley C Spin 45 Kiley C - Spin 45 Calea L - - - Summer 2022 Group Fitness Schedule MPR D: Studio 316 Located on the 3rd floor, next to the second entrace to the Wood Courts Monday Tuesday Wednesday Thursday Friday Saturday Sunday 7:15am - GRIT Kristen A - Boot Camp Bryan F GRIT Caroline V - - 12:00pm - - Barre Allison C - - - - 5:30pm HIIT 45 Brynn D BODYPUMP Caroline V Sculpt Allison C (5:15pm) - - - - Group Fitness Class Descriptions Each class and instructor have their own signature. Participants should listen to their body and work at their own pace. Not all classes will be appropriate for each individual depending upon goals and fitness levels, but instructors strive to provide exercise modifications when possible. Abs & Core 45: Take time to focus on your abs and core - think front and back of your torso. This 45-minute class is an awesome way to finish your workout - or is a great workout all on its own. Barre Fitness: Combinations of ballet-inspired lower body work, low-weight resistance training, and bodyweight work, make for an intense, yet low-impact toning workout. Moves are done on the mat and at the barre. No dance experience necessary. BC-X & Barbells: Takes the high-intensity, high-impact interval training of BC-X, but we’re raising the bar, literally. Non-stop interval circuits will include body weight and plyometric exercises, but with the added challenge of the Iron Grip Strength Equipment. Expect a full-body workout combining resistance strength training and cardio endurance. BODYPUMP™: A barbell workout for using light to moderate weights with lots of repetition, giving you a total body workout. Instructors will coach you through the scientifically proven moves and techniques pumping out encouragement, motivation and great music - helping you achieve much more than on your own! Bootcamp: Mixes traditional calisthenic and body weight exercises with interval training and strength training. This class occasionally goes outside so please dress in layers. Cardio Kickboxing: Jab, punch, and kick your way through a fun and intense workout. This class also incorporates a short strength-training segment at the end for a complete workout! Fitlates: Fitness and Pilates-inspired moves for the core, thighs, and glutes are sure to make your muscles burn in this intense class. Be ready for planks! This mat-based workout tests your muscular endurance with long isometrics, high repetitions, and some light dumbbell work. Fitness in 30: Enjoy a 30-minute moderate-intensity workout, which will include elements of cardio, strength, and stretching, with an extra emphasis on core work. Fitness Feature Friday: Will it be Bootcamp, HIIT, Pilates, Yoga, or some brand new fitness idea? Who knows! The fun is in the surprise! HIIT 45: High intensity interval training (HIIT) sequences with explosive cardio and strength moves, to keep you moving, motivated, and sweaty for 45 minutes! HIIT & Strength: Focus the first half of the class on cardio with high intensity interval training (HIIT) sequences and the second half of class on strength with bodyweight and weighted moves to tax the muscles. InclusivHIITY: Want to try fitness from a new perspective? Come try out this seated HIIT class made for everyone - even those without lower mobility! This class emphasizes the importance of exercise for EVERYONE. Whether you live with a disability or are just looking to better understand those who do, this is the class for you! Pilates Sculpt: Embrace the burn in Pilates Sculpt, a Pilates-inspired class incorporating resistance bands and weights. The class will start with a mind/body warm-up and progress in intensity to burn out the abs, arms, legs, and glutes. All this combined with upbeat music in order to feel strong, empowered, and sweaty! Spin: Indoor cycling taught to energizing music by a wide variety of instructors with different styles! Classes are labeled as Spin 30, 45 or Spin 60 to differentiate class length in minutes. Spin & Core: Start with indoor cycling and finish with a core workout. Get ready to sweat and strengthen! TABATA: A high intensity interval workout of strength, cardio, and conditioning moves. 30 seconds work. 20 seconds rest. 4 TABATAs total for a great HIIT training session. Total Body Step: Total body conditioning with step! Cardio, strength training, and abs included. This class combines basic step movements so no crazy step combinations here. Total Body Sculpt: Resistance bands, dumbbells, body bars, Valslides, mats and more are used in this head to toe strength training class, all set to the beat of the music. No cardio included. Total Body Circuits: Resistance bands, dumbbells, body bars, Valslides, mats and more are used in this circuit-style head to toe strength training class with cardio bursts! Yoga-Lates Fusion: The best of both - yoga and Pilates! A vinyasa-style yoga sequence of sun salutations and dynamic asanas (poses) followed by core and hip strengthening Pilates movements. Zumba®: Ditch the workout; join the party! This class uses Latin rhythms and easy to follow moves to create a dynamic fitness dance program that will blow you away. You will develop core strength and cardiovascular strength, all while having fun! Hatha Yoga: Focus on yoga poses, breathing techniques and meditation to achieve balance between the mind and body. Improve flexibility, strength, concentration and relaxation. Iyengar Yoga: A type of Hatha Yoga which emphasizes precision and alignment. Postures are held for a longer duration to experience them fully. Build strength, circulation, relaxation, coordination and balance. Power Yoga: This class will introduce a more vigorous, athletic approach to yoga. The format is characterized by flowing poses and sequences that are linked to the breath. Classes are diverse and will vary with instructor philosophy. Restorative Yoga: Slow down, breathe, and stretch passively for long periods using blankets, blocks and bolsters to aid in deep relaxation. This class is meant for anyone who needs to rest and restore, regardless of yoga experience. Sunrise Yoga: Rise and shine and start your day off right! This class consists of a combination of flow and holding postures. Alignment, coordination and breath are emphasized. You will start your day with a new sense of vitality! Vinyasa Flow Yoga: A vigorous type of Hatha Yoga consists of a continuous series of postures, which flow together. Postural alignment and coordination of breath and movement are emphasized. Yoga-Lates Fusion: The best of both - yoga and Pilates! A vinyasa-style yoga sequence of sun salutations and dynamic asanas (poses) followed by core and hip strengthening Pilates movements. Yoga & Meditation: A gentle yoga practice, with elements of restorative yoga and meditation, to aid in mental relaxation and concentration. General Group Fitness Policies Arrive on time for class and avoid leaving early if possible. Late arrivals are not allowed in the room 5 minutes after the start of class. If you must leave early, please let your instructor know at the beginning of class. Entering a class in progress is prohibited. Please refrain from entering the room before the current class has finished completely. Please follow the instructor’s routine and keep conversations to a minimum. Appropriate athletic attire is required. Athletic shoes are required in most classes, with the exception of certain mind/body classes. Jeans or pants with buttons/hardware are not permitted. All personal items should be kept in a locker or cubby. Staff is not responsible for any lost, stolen, or damaged items. Mobile phone use is not allowed during class. Phones must be left in a locker or cubby during class. Personal music devices may not be used during class. No food or drink except water in a closed, unbreakable container is permitted. Profanity, excessively loud or offensive language will not be tolerated. Only BC Campus Recreation approved staff are permitted to teach in facilities during scheduled class times. Approval is required for use of studio during unscheduled times. Individual use of the facility stereo equipment is prohibited. Instructors reserve the right to cancel a group fitness class if two or fewer participants are in attendance. Fitness Outreach Policies Scheduling: The scheduling of Fitness Outreach requires a minimum of 7-day notice and classes are not guaranteed. Classes can be scheduled at the Margot Connell Recreation Center or off-site on the Boston College campus. Off-site spaces must be reserved by the group requesting the class. On-site space requests will be handled by Campus Recreation staff and are not guaranteed. Participation: Class participation at the Margot Connell Recreation Center is limited to members. Any non-members, including coordinators of the event, seeking to participate in a Fitness Outreach class will be required to purchase a Single Day Pass in order to participate. Payment: Payment for services is due 48 hours prior to the class. Cancellation Policy: As a courtesy, please notify both the Assistant Director, Fitness and Wellness as well as the assigned instructor a minimum of 48 hours in advance to cancel. Any cancellation requests with less than 48-hours notice will be subject to payment unless due to inclement weather and early closure by the University. DISCLAIMER: If you choose to exercise on any platform with Boston College and its affiliates, you do so at your own risk and acknowledge that there is an innate risk of injury when participating in any physical activity. Participation is voluntary and practiced in a safe place suitable for this activity. Some practices may not be safe under certain medical conditions. You agree to consult a doctor if you have any medical concerns. If you experience any physical or emotional pain or discomfort, you will listen to your body, adjust the practice, and ask for support from a medical provider. You hereby agree to irrevocably release and waive any claims that have now or hereafter may have against Boston College and its affiliates. You have read this disclaimer and have acknowledged it prior to participating in any activity. Back To Top Back To Top BC Campus Recreation 140 Commonwealth Avenue Chestnut Hill, MA 02467 617-552-0797 About Memberships Recreation Fitness Sports Youth Programs Facebook Twitter Instagram Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College