Skip to main content Temple University Explore Temple’s Schools and Colleges Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Support Temple Temple University Search Site Search Full Menu Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees President History & Traditions Temple Health News & Media Offices Public Information Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Development Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Libraries English Major You are here Home Academics Degrees and Programs English Major Apply Visit Request More Info English Major Admissions Careers, Internships & Opportunities Required Courses Research & Facilities Scholarships & Financial Aid Bachelor of Arts in English Explore the rich history of American, English and global literature with the Bachelor of Arts in English in the College of Liberal Arts at Temple University. This 123-credit undergraduate degree program helps you develop the skills to become an inventive writer and strong critical thinker, which is valued in a competitive workforce. Learn to conduct research, formulate fresh and compelling arguments, and solve problems with creativity. Through the English BA curriculum, you will explore artistic, linguistic and literary movements throughout history, deepening your social intelligence and cultural awareness. Perform in-depth analyses of classic and contemporary works of literature, examining major themes through various critical lenses. The English BA prepares students for graduate-level study in English literature and other disciplines. It also positions students to immediately enter the workforce. Graduates are prepared to edit and write professionally in various forms, including advertising, essays, grant proposals, legal documents, poetry, research projects, speeches and stories. Through a well-established internship program and career seminar, this bachelor’s program lays the groundwork for careers in several fields, including advertising, business, education, government, journalism, law, marketing, public relations, publishing and social services. Classes & Curriculum Courses offered in the English BA degree program include the following. Interpreting Literature Introduction to American Writing Introduction to British Writing Introduction to Global Writing Texts and Criticism Students are required to complete a capstone course during their final year. Learn more about the English BA curriculum. Related Graduate Degrees Creative Writing MFA English MA English PhD Concentrations You can focus on English or you can take the following concentration. Creative Writing Develop the skills critical to reading and analyzing complex literary texts across a variety of historical contexts and cultures. Prepare for professional writing and editing in fields such as business, public relations, publishing and journalism, and more. View Concentration Details Certificate Programs The College of Liberal Arts has 22 undergraduate certificate programs for you to expand your knowledge and diversify your Temple education. Certificates can complement bachelor's programs, allowing you to specialize in an area and highlight your exposure to disciplines outside of your major. Tuition & Fees In keeping with Temple’s commitment to access and affordability, the Bachelor of Arts offers a competitive level of tuition with multiple opportunities for financial support. Tuition rates are set annually by the university and are affected by multiple factors, including program degree level (undergraduate or graduate), course load (full- or part-time), in-state or out-of-state residency, and more. Learn more about our tuition and fees. These tuition costs apply to the 2021–2022 academic year. Pennsylvania resident: $16,488.00 per year Out-of-state: $29,712.00 per year Our Academic Advisors College of Liberal Arts academic advisors help you navigate your curriculum and potential career paths throughout your time at Temple. Gabriel Wettach is the undergraduate advisor. Phone: 215-204-8510 Email: gabe@temple.edu Joyce K. Salzberg Center for Professional Development Dedicated advisors at the Joyce K. Salzberg Center for Professional Development in the College of Liberal Arts are available to guide students through their academic careers and with their career paths beyond Temple. They can help you choose a major, navigate your curriculum, identify internship opportunities, explore career opportunities and determine your post-graduation plans. Learn more about the center. Program Contact With questions regarding the English Major, contact the following staff members. Roland Williams is chair of the English Department. Email: rolandw@temple.edu Rose Wint is the undergraduate coordinator for the English Department. Phone: 215-204-7563 Email: rwint@temple.edu LaTasha Goodman is the manager of administration within the College of Liberal Arts. Email: lgoodman@temple.edu Phone: 215-204-8516 University Honors Program The College of Liberal Arts participates in Temple’s Honors Program. Learn more about the program and how to be admitted. Students who meet certain academic and extracurricular criteria may become members of the following honor societies. Alpha Lambda Delta is a national society that honors academic excellence during a student's first year at college. Golden Key is an international society that enables members to realize their potential through the advancement of academics, leadership and service. Phi Beta Kappa is open to juniors and seniors in the College of Liberal Arts. To qualify for Phi Beta Kappa, a student must maintain a high grade point average in a broad, rigorous program of study in the liberal arts, including mathematics and foreign languages. Learn more about Temple’s Honor Societies. Student Clubs & Organizations Supplement your College of Liberal Arts coursework and enhance your undergraduate experience at Temple with more than 300 student clubs and organizations. You’ll have opportunities to meet and network with other students, get involved with the community, grow your interests, and develop résumé-boosting skills and experiences. The following student organizations may be of interest to students in the English program. The Hyphen Literary and Art Magazine, Temple’s only undergraduate literary journal, publishes a print issue every spring and hosts various events throughout the year. Undergraduate students are invited to submit to the magazine and volunteer on its staff. TINGE Magazine is an online literary journal that publishes twice annually. Edited by graduate students of the Master of Fine Arts in Creative Writing program, submissions to TINGE are open to all students. Learn more about Temple’s student clubs and organizations. Study Away College of Liberal Arts undergraduate students are encouraged to study away for an academic year, semester or summer. Enrich your Temple experience by immersing yourself in new cultures, histories and perspectives in countries such as China, Germany, Ghana and Italy, as well as at Temple’s Rome and Tokyo campuses. Learn more about your options for studying away. Accreditation Temple University’s departments and programs are accredited by the Middle States Commission on Higher Education. LA-ENG-BA Additional Program Information Available as a minor. Visit College Site View Program Details Go back to AcademicsMore in English Major Admissions Careers, Internships & Opportunities Required Courses Research & Facilities Scholarships & Financial Aid Apply Visit Request More Info Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Calendar Policies Social Media TUportal TUmail Accessibility Careers at Temple Safety & Emergency Information Ethics & Compliance Privacy Statement Professional Licensure Disclosures Follow Temple University Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community. Apply Visit Request More Info