Skip to main content MyUW Calendar Directories Libraries UW Medicine Maps UW News Helpful Links Computing/IT ISC/Workday Husky Card UW Bothell UW Tacoma UW Facebook UW Twitter University of Washington University of Washington Students Parents Faculty & Staff Alumni Quick Links Events UWAA Members Join or renew Reasons to be a member Class of 2022 offer Member benefits Member account Get the app UW Impact Travel COVID-19 Updates Upcoming Tours Traveling with us Traveler Testimonials Tour Operators Resources & FAQs Travel insurance Communities U.S. Huskies International Huskies UW campuses, colleges & schools Common Ground Always Learning Multicultural Alumni Partnership Reunions UW Husky Landing Future Alumni Dinners with the Pack Huskies@Work Student Alumni Ambassadors Student Career Trek Services Career UW NetID Email & online tools Transcripts BECU GEICO Update your information Home Alumni Stories Career Conversations See More Stories Prev Overview Next Audio Series Career Conversations Frank conversations to help you take control of your career. Join moderator Michaela Gormley, ’09, for a series of candid conversations with career experts on topics to keep you focused on your career growth and professional success. This is not your usual “how-to” series focusing on resumes, interviews or cover letters. Each speaker brings a unique perspective on relevant topics for you and your professional development, from building relationships to setting boundaries in the workplace. About Michaela Gormley, ’09 Michaela Gormley (she/her) is a proud alum of the University of Washington, graduating in 2009 from the Foster School of Business with a degree in Business Administration – Marketing and a minor in Spanish. She is currently the Director of Marketing and Communications for an insurance brokerage firm in Bellevue and previously worked in international produce sales. She served as a member of the UWAA GOLD (Graduates of the Last Decade) Council for two years, including one year leading the diversity, equity and inclusion subcommittee. As a proud member of the UW Alumni community and as a first-generation college student herself, Michaela is passionate about increasing the inclusivity and accessibility of higher education. She is excited to be part of the first ever UWAA Career Conversations and hopes to create a resource that helps others achieve their personal and professional goals. In her free time, Michaela is an avid fan of Husky Athletics and has been a football season ticket holder since graduation. She loves spending time in the sunshine of Eastern Washington with her family and friends and prides herself on being a cool aunt to all of her nieces and nephews. Don’t Build Your Network, Build Your Relationships with Aleenah Ansari (she/her) Developing your authentic personal brand is key to building relationships. Aleenah Ansari highlights how to use storytelling to create your brand and help you communicate your story and value to successfully navigate your job search now or in the future. Whether you are on a specific career track or breaking into a new industry, this conversation will help you hone your storytelling skills. Link to transcript About Aleenah Ansari Aleenah Ansari is equal parts storyteller, creative problem solver, and journalist at heart who’s rooted in the stories of people behind code and user interfaces. In her current role as a writer and video producer for Microsoft Inside Track, she creates blogs and videos about the experts who build, deploy, and manage the tools used by 190,000+ employees at Microsoft. Her stories cover everything from Microsoft’s security training and underwater datacenter to the Yammer community used to support visa-dependent employees. Her writing has also been featured in GLAAD, Kulfi, CNBC, The Seattle Times and more. Outside of her day job, you can find her helping early-in-career professionals and entrepreneurs feel more confident telling stories about their identity and work, hosting webinars on storytelling and personal branding, and planning her next trip to NYC. Learn more at Aleenah Ansari’s homepage. Emotional Divestment in the Workplace with Yejin Lee (she/her) Are you too emotionally invested in your job? Equity and justice coach/consultant Yejin Lee explains the importance of finding the right questions to ask yourself as you think about your relationship with work, especially for people of color navigating inequity in the workplace. These strategies can help you find your focus, reduce harm, and center your path to personal and professional success. Link to transcript Social Change Ecosystem Map — This framework is referenced several times in Yejin Lee’s talk. About Yejin Lee Yejin Lee is a New York-based Korean-American equity & justice coach and consultant with over 12 years of experience in the NYC nonprofit sector as an organizer, fundraiser, staff advocate, and organizational design aficionado. Her primary mission as a coach is to support the liberation of people of color by guiding them in finding values-driven pathways for their careers and lives, and by building their capacity to strategize around and survive inequitable experiences within institutions. Her secondary mission is to reduce the harm experienced by people of color within institutions, and she does this through her leadership coaching services & organizational consulting practice. Yejin received her BA from Boston College in History, American Studies, and African Diaspora Studies, has been trained by the People’s Institute for Survival and Beyond in Undoing Racism, and has completed an equity-informed mediation basics training from Resolutions Northwest. Learn more at Yejin Lee’s homepage. Combatting Ageism in the Job Market with Elizabeth Atcheson (she/her) In this discussion, Seattle career coach Elizabeth Atcheson reveals what ageism looks like in the hiring process and how to combat the stereotypes of an “older” worker. Whether you are 40 or 60, you will find helpful advice on how to harness your existing power as an experienced worker, use your network to get into interview pools, and land that role that you want. Link to transcript About Elizabeth Atcheson Elizabeth Atcheson is a Seattle-based career coach who works with adults of all ages who are looking for jobs or changing careers. In addition to individual work with clients, she gives a variety of affordable workshops, including Level Up Your LinkedIn Profile, Combatting Ageism in the Job Market, Propel Your Professional Growth, and her popular monthly workshop, Tools for Transition. Prior to becoming a career coach, Elizabeth built a 25-year marketing career, first in San Francisco and later in Seattle. She held roles in marketing, marketing communications, marketing strategy, account management, and B2B sales in a variety of for-profit and non-for-profit enterprises. Elizabeth earned an undergraduate degree in Psychology from Stanford University and an M.B.A. from the Stanford University Graduate School of Business. She has two adult daughters and two baby grandsons on whom she lavishes attention. Learn more at Blue Bridge Career Coaching. Music by Lesfm from Pixabay More Career Connections for Huskies UW Husky Landing is a powerful professional networking tool for the UW community. Whether you’re looking for your first job out of college or a seasoned professional looking to build your network, there’s a place here for you. Connect your LinkedIn profile to the University of Washington Alumni Group to engage with career-minded Huskies online. See More Stories Prev Overview Next Share this page UW Alumni Facebook UW Alumni Twitter UW Alumni Instagram UW Alumni LinkedIn CONTACT UWAA: 206-543-0540 uwalumni@uw.edu About UWAA Join University of Washington Be boundless Connect with us: Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Pinterest Accessibility Contact Us Jobs Campus Safety My UW Rules Docket Privacy Terms © 2022 University of Washington | Seattle, WA