Skip to main content Skip to primary site menu Google Tag Manager Search form Search Explore Brown University Search Global Navigation Learn More About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life Find A to Z Index People Directory Information for Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Top Destinations Global Brown Watson Institute Graduate School Alpert Medical School School of Public Health School of Engineering Hassenfeld Child Health Innovation Institute Home For Participants About the Hassenfeld Study Hassenfeld Study: Leadership Hassenfeld Study: Research Assistants About Mission & History Partners People Executive Committee Core Research and Evaluation Unit Faculty Scholars Data Core Survey Research Team Administrative Staff In the Spotlight Initiative Teams Scientific Committees Advisory Council Financial Team List of Faculty Our Work Resources For Families Community of Learners Events Get Involved Site Navigation Home For Participants About the Hassenfeld Study Hassenfeld Study: Leadership Hassenfeld Study: Research Assistants About Mission & History Partners People Executive Committee Core Research and Evaluation Unit Faculty Scholars Data Core Survey Research Team Administrative Staff In the Spotlight Initiative Teams Scientific Committees Advisory Council Financial Team List of Faculty Our Work Asthma ABC Study Project CARE RI AIR Hotspot Analysis Home Asthma Response Program Neighborhood Risk Autism Genetics PHOEBE Study Prospective Infant Behavioral Study Play and Autism RI-CART Healthy Weight Summer Weight Gain Pregnancy and Early Childhood Expanding Scope of Treatment Measuring Overweight and Obesity The Hassenfeld Study Postpartum Cohort Prenatal Cohort Injury and Poisoning Neighborhood Disparities in Lead Poisoning Lead & Prematurity Fall-related Injuries Liquor Stores & Teen ED Use Frequent ED Use ED Use & Insurance Coverage Traumatic Brain Injury Burns Resources For Families English Español Community of Learners Summer Scholars 2021 Summer Scholars 2020 Summer Scholars 2019 Summer Scholars 2018 Summer Scholars 2017 Summer Scholars 2016 Summer Scholars Research Scholars Events Hassenfeld Institute Child Health Seminar Series Past events and webinars Get Involved Give to the Institute Hassenfeld Child Health Innovation Awards Hassenfeld Study: Research Assistants Veronica Bariscillo Veronica is a bilingual research assistant for the prenatal and postpartum cohorts. She has over ten years of research experience and has worked on projects for Brown University, Women & Infants Hospital, Hasbro Hospital and the University of Washington. Her interests are in children’s health and their pathways to growth. In her free time, Veronica enjoys sailing across the Narragansett Bay and travelling abroad to visit family and friends. Phoebe Burton Phoebe is a research assistant for the prenatal and postpartum cohorts. She is a graduate of Skidmore College and has previous experience working as an EMT. Her interests include maternal-fetal medicine, obesity, and exercise sciences. Outside of work she enjoys baking and running. Genesis Peña Genesis is a bilingual research assistant for the prenatal and postpartum cohorts. She has previous experience working in medical office settings. She has a passion for improving child health and wellness. She enjoys traveling and considers herself a foodie. Fabid Serna Fabid Serna is a bilingual research assistant for the prenatal and postpartum cohorts. She has several years of experience in customer service. She is a mother of three beautiful children and is passionate about learning more ways to improve children’s health. Outside of work she enjoys spending time with her kids and watching movies while eating ice cream. Cheryl Souza Cheryl is a research assistant for the postpartum cohort. She has a nursing degree from Rhode Island College and over 25 years of research experience. She has been involved in a variety of studies at Brown University, Women & Infants Hospital, and the Harvard School of Public Health. She enjoys walking, reading, and playing games with her nieces and nephews. Currie Touloumtzis Grants and Financial Specialist, Research Assistant Currie is a research assistant for the postpartum cohort. She also provides high-level pre-award grants management and research administration services for the Institute. She has an MPH from Boston University. Her interests are in public health and environmental issues. Currie also enjoys gardening and spending time with friends and family. Home For Participants About the Hassenfeld Study Hassenfeld Study: Leadership Hassenfeld Study: Research Assistants Hassenfeld Child Health Innovation Institute Hassenfeld Child Health Innovation Institute Brown University Box G S 121-4 121 South Main Street, Providence, RI 02912 Phone: 401-863-3855 Email [email protected] Twitter Twitter Facebook Facebook Instagram Instagram Info for study participants Subscribe to our monthly newsletter Brown University Giving to Brown Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA 401-863-1000 Contact Us Maps Directions Career Opportunities Campus Safety Accessibility All Social Media © 2022 Brown University | Back to top