Skip to main content SMU Explore SMU Academics Undergraduate Admission Student Affairs About News Athletics Events Calendar Bush Center Prospective Students Current Students Alumni Faculty & Staff Apply to SMUGIVE NOW Meadows School of the Arts Areas of Study Admissions About Menu Search Dual Admission Dual Admit Guide While most students only need to apply to SMU, there are five Meadows majors that require both an application and admission to SMU and an application to Meadows along with an audition or portfolio: Art, Dance, Film & Media Arts (B.F.A.), Music and Theatre. Dual Admission Take a Virtual Tour Schedule a Visit Financial Aid & Scholarships Contact Admissions How to Apply First, check to see if a major is considered a Dual Admission area or a Standard Admission area. Be sure to follow all the admission steps that are specific to that major and for SMU in general. Dual Admission Students interested in these programs will need to apply to the Meadows School of the Arts by submitting a Meadows application along with a portfolio or audition, in addition to applying to SMU: Art B.A. or B.F.A.; Dance B.F.A. or minor; Film & Media Arts B.F.A.; Music B.M., B.A. or minor; and Theatre B.F.A. Standard Admission Students interested in these programs only need to apply to SMU and indicate their area of interest on the application: Advertising B.A. or minor; Art History B.A. or minor; Corporate Communication & Public Affairs B.A. or minor; Creative Computation B.A. or minor; Fashion Media B.A.; Film & Media Arts B.A.; Journalism B.A. or minor; and Public Relations & Strategic Communication B.A. Scholarships & Financial Aid Did you know the cost of college varies from person to person? Depending on your audition or portfolio, academic profile, and family income, you may qualify for an academic scholarship, an artistic scholarship from Meadows, and/or need-based aid from SMU or the U.S. government. Scholarships & Financial Aid Do applicants need to submit SAT or ACT scores to be considered for admission? No. Currently, SMU does not require standardized test scores for applicants to be considered for admission or scholarship. Dual admission applicants are also considered for artistic scholarships based on their audition or portfolio, and academic scholarships based on academic information submitted to SMU. More FAQs 5 Tips on Double Majoring SMU Meadows students talk about planners, pressure and how to keep everything in balance while double majoring. 5 TIPS Take the Next Step Meadows prepares you to be an artist ready for the world. We'll help you with the next step. Book a tour, talk with an admissions counselor, and get your questions answered. Contact us Take A Tour Meadows School of the Arts Meadows School of the Arts 6101 Bishop Dallas, Texas 75205 214-768-2000 Mailing Address: P.O. Box 750356 Dallas, Texas 75275-0356 Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkedIn Apply Now Visit Us Back to top © Southern Methodist University, PO Box 750100, Dallas, TX 75275 Areas of Study Advertising Art Art History Arts Management & Arts Entrepreneurship CCPA Creative Computation Dance Film & Media Arts Journalism Music Theatre Admissions Undergraduate Admissions Graduate Admissions Scholarships And Financial Aid Internships & Collaborations Visit Meadows Contact Meadows Admission Dual Admission About A Statement of Our Values Mission History Message From The Dean Dean's Executive Council Student Academic Services Academic Affairs Contact SMU Meadows Faculty Directory Faculty/Staff Bio Submission Form Facilities Resources Employment Meadows Graduate Student Council Site Map Report a Web Problem News and Events Art History After Hours Virtual Season Subscribers News Featured Media Our Calendar Performing Arts Season Music Recitals Events Newsletter Meadows Events Parking Directions & Public Transportation Meadows Recognition Ceremony The Movement Mission Ignite Arts Dallas SMU DataArts Meadows Prize Arts Entrepreneurship International Opportunities Interdisciplinary Studies Research and Creativity Alumni Submit Your Information Alumni News Alumni in the Media Alumni on LinkedIn Support Meadows Contact Development The Meadows Scholars Program Meadows Gala Apply NowVisit UsGive Menu Search Search Submit Menu Search