Skip to main content Skip to primary site menu Google Tag Manager Search form Search Brown University A-Z Index People Directory Students Alumni Careers News Events Search Give Explore Brown University's School of Public Health Admissions Academics Research Faculty About Diversity Admissions Academics Research Faculty About Diversity A-Z Index People Directory Students Alumni Careers News Events Office of Diversity and Inclusion Home About People Programming & Initiatives Training & Events Resources Tips for Maintaining Equity and Inclusion in a Virtual Space Tips for Maintaining Equity and Inclusion for DEI Practitioners Resources & Considerations for Researchers, Instructors, and Students Diversity and inclusion offices Abuse, discrimination, and harassment Academic success Mental and physical health and wellness Title IX Resources Confidential Resources Non-Confidential Resources News Site Navigation Home About People Leadership Staff Diversity and Inclusion Committee Staff Advisory Committee Center and Departmental DIAP Committee contacts Programming & Initiatives Support & Diversification of the Talent Pipeline Connecting Talent program Connecting graduate students of color to faculty and staff Connecting staff L.E.A.D. (Learning & Engaging Around Diversity) Public Health Womxn of Color Collective School of Public Health Students of Color Affinity Group Statement on Health Disparities and COVID-19 Training & Events Ongoing trainings Past Events Webinar Resources during COVID-19 Resources Tips for Maintaining Equity and Inclusion in a Virtual Space Tips for Maintaining Equity and Inclusion for DEI Practitioners Resources & Considerations for Researchers, Instructors, and Students Diversity and inclusion offices Abuse, discrimination, and harassment Academic success Mental and physical health and wellness Title IX Resources Confidential Resources Non-Confidential Resources News Confidential Resources For students - Counseling and Psychological Services (CAPS): Provides crisis intervention, short-term individual therapy, group therapy, community outreach, and referral services. Page-Robinson Hall room 512; (401) 863-3476 http://www.brown.edu/campus-life/support/counseling-and-psychological-se... For students - Sexual Assault Response Line Available through Counseling and Psychological Services’ on-call system. Confidential crisis support and information is available for any Brown student dealing with sexual assault. The on-call counselor is also available to accompany a victim to the hospital. (401) 863-6000 For students - Sexual Harassment and Assault Resources and Education (SHARE) Advocate(s) Help is available for students who have experienced sexual violence and abuse in a relationship. Confidential services include support for a survivor or the friends of a survivor, help exploring options to address the incident (such as filing a complaint, if that is the student's choice) and educational programs for the student community. When you get support, you do not have to pursue any specific course of action and no action will be taken unless it’s something you choose. Health Services, 3rd floor; (401) 863-2794 http://brown.edu/go/SHARE/ For students - University Health Services Confidential medical care, testing and treatment. Emergency contraceptive pills and treatment for sexually transmitted infections are available. Located at 13 Brown Street on the corner of Brown and Charlesfield Streets. (401) 863-3953 For all – Ombudsperson A safe, informal place to discuss a matter or surface a concern confidentially. [email protected], (401) 863-6145 For all - Chaplains Office The Chaplains are available for personal counseling and support. Call to make an appointment. Located in Page-Robinson Hall, Room 410 (401) 863-2344 For all - Brown Emergency Medical Services (EMS) Emergency response available 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. (401) 863-4111 Title IX Website Title IX Resources Confidential Resources Non-Confidential Resources Office of the Dean of Diversity and Inclusion Office of the Dean of Diversity and Inclusion Brown University School of Public Health 121 South Main Street Providence, RI 02912 Email [email protected] Twitter Twitter Brown University Giving to Brown 121 South Main Street, Providence, Rhode Island 02903, USA 401-863-3375 Contact Us Newsletter Maps Directions Career Opportunities Campus Safety Accessibility Brown Social Media © 2022 Brown University | Back to top