Skip to main content Skip to primary site menu Google Tag Manager Search form Search Brown University A-Z Index People Directory Students Alumni Careers News Events Search Give Explore Brown University's School of Public Health Admissions Academics Research Faculty About Diversity Admissions Academics Research Faculty About Diversity A-Z Index People Directory Students Alumni Careers News Events Site Navigation By the Numbers Mission & Values People Our History Accreditation Strategic Plan Wellness Podcasts Service & Community Engagement SPH Policies and Guidelines Events Podcasts Humans in Public Health Podcast: All week, the School of Public Health is releasing new episodes of the Humans in Public Health podcast! The theme for National Public Health Week 2022 is ‘Public Health Is Where You Are.’ Join host Megan Hall MPH'15 and get to know new faculty members and their new initiatives, and learn about work being done at Brown that impacts public health here in Providence, and around the world. Friday, April 8, 2022 | Claire Wardle: Fighting Misinformation and Disinformation Brown School of Public Health · Fighting Misinformation & Disinformation New professor of the practice of health services, policy and practice, Claire Wardle, is not a health professional. She is, however, considered one of the leading experts on misinformation. Co-founder of First Draft, a non-profit dedicated to supporting organizations fighting misinformation, Wardle talks to Megan Hall MPH'15, about her plans for collaborative work at Brown that aims not only to understand mis- and disinformation, but to create tools for more effective public health communication. Thursday, April 7, 2022 | Erica Walker: Noise Pollution and the Power of Sound Brown School of Public Health · Noise Pollution and the Power of Sound Erica Walker, new assistant professor of epidemiology, studies noise pollution and its effects on health. The founder of the Community Noise Lab says that sound, which has been shown to impact cardiovascular health, is a proxy for power. Walker’s particular interest is in helping communities with less power address their noise issues to improve population health and well being. Tuesday, April 5, 2022 | Jennifer Nuzzo: Preparing for the Next Pandemic Brown School of Public Health · Preparing for the Next Pandemic The COVID-19 pandemic isn’t really over, and this won’t be the last pandemic of our lifetimes. Megan Hall speaks to Jennifer Nuzzo, new professor of epidemiology in the School of Public Health, about Brown’s new Center for Pandemic Preparedness and Response and what its approach will be to creating whole-of-society solutions that address the current emergency, and preparations that help mitigate future pandemics. Monday, April 4, 2022 | Rosemarie Martin: Combatting opioid use disorder in RI's prisons Brown School of Public Health · Combatting opioid use disorder in RI's prisons Rhode Island is the only state that connects its incarcerated population with proven treatments for opioid use disorder. Megan Hall MPH'15 speaks to Rosemarie Martin, associate professor of behavioral and social sciences, and others about the MAT program's life-saving impact. April 9, 2021 | Lorin Crawford: Race and Genetics Brown School of Public Health · Humans in Public Health: Lorin Crawford April 8, 2021 | Jud Brewer: Unwinding Anxiety Brown School of Public Health · Humans in Public Health: Jud Brewer April 7, 2021 | Sara Caniglia: COVID Hotels and Homelessness Brown School of Public Health · Humans in Public Health: Sara Caniglia April 6, 2021 | Joe Braun: Toxic Plastics Brown School of Public Health · Humans in Public Health: Joe Braun April 5, 2021 | Amy Nunn: Partnering with Black Churches Brown School of Public Health · Humans in Public Health: Amy Nunn Listen to our other podcasts: COVID: What Comes Next? Every week Dean Ashish Jha will analyze events of the previous several days and offer his assessment and guidance for what lies ahead for the U.S. and the world. This exclusive podcast is hosted by G. Wayne Miller, healthcare reporter with the Providence Journal and the USA TODAY NETWORK. Subscribe: Audible Spotify Stitcher Or find us on your favorite podcasting app. The COVID Pod The Brown Daily Herald welcomes Ashish Jha, MD, MPH, Dean of the School of Public Health at Brown University, to discuss public health measures and national news surrounding the COVID-19 pandemic, as well as local issues in Rhode Island and at Brown. Subscribe: Apple Podcasts Audible Stitcher Or find us on your favorite podcasting app. About By the Numbers Mission & Values People Our History Accreditation Strategic Plan Wellness Podcasts Service & Community Engagement SPH Policies and Guidelines Events School of Public Health Admissions School of Public Health Admissions Email [email protected] Brown University Giving to Brown 121 South Main Street, Providence, Rhode Island 02903, USA 401-863-3375 Contact Us Newsletter Maps Directions Career Opportunities Campus Safety Accessibility Brown Social Media © 2022 Brown University | Back to top