Skip to main content University of Washington Research Contact Us About Office of Research Announcements UW Home Quick Links MyResearch Project Lifecycle Plan/Propose Plan/Propose Overview Develop Hypothesis/Question Select Funding Source Conduct Literature Search Sponsor Requirements Recruit Team Budget Facilities and Resources Write Proposal Submit Proposal Tools MyResearch SAGE Zipline More Tools Setup Setup Overview Sponsor Requirements Facilities and Resources Financials Subawards Compliance Requirements (Non-Financial) Records and Documentation Methods Collaborations Data Collection Tools MyResearch SAGE Zipline More Tools Manage Manage Overview Financials Compliance Requirements (Non-Financial) Facilities and Resources Collect Data Analyze Data Subawards Award Changes Reporting Tools MyResearch SAGE Zipline More Tools Closeout Closeout Overview Financials Subawards Equipment and Materials Reporting Dissemination of Results Data Sharing Records Retention Tools MyResearch SAGE Zipline More Tools Resources Support Offices Human Subjects Division Office of Animal Welfare Office of Research Central Office of Research Information Services Office of Sponsored Programs Research Units Applied Physics Laboratory Washington National Primate Research Center Browse Forms and Templates Policies, Procedures and Guidance Announcements Glossary FAQs Popular Resources Funding Opportunities Grants Information Memorandum (GIMs) Institutional Facts and Rates Research Stats & Rankings New to UW Research UWFT for the Research Community Tools MyResearch SAGE Zipline More Tools Collaboration Connect to Expertise Find Research Expertise Research Centers and Institutes Resources for Collaboration Interdisciplinary Resources Guidance for NIH Institutional Training Grants Collaborative Proposal Development Resources Establish a Research Center or Institute Shared Research Facilities and Resources Tools MyResearch SAGE Zipline More Tools Compliance Compliance Overview Compliance Training Training Overview Research Training Overview Collaborative for Research Education Required Research Training Research Administration Learning HSD Training and Education MyResearch Training Transcript Office of Research Central research@uw.edu PH# 206.616.0804; FAX# 206.685.9210 UW Research Menu MyResearch Project Lifecycle Plan/Propose Setup Manage Closeout Resources Collaboration Compliance Training Home UW Research Office of Research Central Royalty Research Fund (RRF) Royalty Research Fund (RRF) Office of Research... Home Office of Research Central COVID-19 Guidance for a Safe Return to In-Person Research Office of Research: Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Diversity, Equity, & Inclusion Committee Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Definitions OR Leadership Vice Provost for Research Sr. Associate Vice Provost for Research Administration and Integrity – Joe Giffels Associate Vice Provost for Research – Cecilia (Ceci) Giachelli Associate Vice Provost for Research Computing – Jim Pfaendtner OR/PNNL Liaison – Daniel Schwartz Associate Vice Provost for Data Science – Andrew Connolly UW Research Timeline Vision and Mission Advisory Boards Research Advisory Board iSTAR (Improving Service to Advance Research) Bridge Funding Program Royalty Research Fund (RRF) RRF at 30 Years Matching Funds Request DEI STEM Faculty Recruitment Initiative Research Stats & Rankings UW Annual Report of Awards and Expenditures and Monthly Research Award Summary Archives Honors and Awards Alan T. Waterman Award Albert Lasker Awards Alpha Chi Sigma Award for Chemical Engineering American Academy of Arts and Sciences American Association for the Advancement of Science American Philosophical Society August Vollmer Award Bôcher Memorial Prize Breakthrough Prize Fields Medal Gairdner Awards Howard Hughes Medical Institute Investigators International Cosmos Prize John Simon Guggenheim Memorial Foundation Kyoto Prize MacArthur Fellows National Academy of Engineering National Academy of Inventors National Academy of Medicine (formerly Institute of Medicine) National Academy of Public Administration National Academy of Sciences National Book Award National Medal of Arts National Medal of Science Nobel Prize Packard Fellowships for Science and Engineering Penrose Medal Presidential Award for Excellence in Science, Mathematics and Engineering Mentoring (PAESMEM) Presidential Early Career Awards in Science and Engineering Pulitzer Prize Sloan Research Fellowship The Shaw Prize Volvo Environment Prize Washington State Academy of Sciences Welch Award in Chemistry Wolf Prize Contact Us The Royalty Research Fund (RRF) is a competitive awards program that provides research support to University of Washington faculty. The RRF is funded by royalty and licensing fee income generated by the University’s technology transfer program. The Royalty Research Fund has been offered twice a year since 1992. In 1994, the RRF Scholar Program was initiated to provide one quarter of release time for faculty with full teaching loads to engage in concentrated scholarly activities. The RRF welcomes proposals with budgets up to $40,000. Approximately $1M is awarded per round. The success rate for applicants averages 25%. Over its 30 year history, the RRF has made over 2,000 peer-reviewed awards and distributed more than $57 million across all three UW campuses. Click on the logo at right to read testimonials from RRF awardees and share your experiences. Purpose Eligibility Guidelines Deadlines & How to Apply Proposal Review Process Questions Purpose The purpose of the Royalty Research Fund (RRF) is to advance new directions in research, particularly: In disciplines for which external funding opportunities are minimal, and/or For faculty who are junior in rank, and/or In cases where funding may provide unique opportunities to increase applicants’ competitiveness for subsequent funding. Proposals must demonstrate a high probability of generating important new creative activities or scholarly understandings, new scholarly materials or resources, significant data or information, or essential instrumentation resources that are likely to significantly advance the reputation of the university, lead to external funding, or lead to the development of a new technology. Eligibility Full-time or part-time faculty with regular or fixed-term appointments are eligible to apply as PI or Co-PI, as are professional staff. All applicants must have PI status as determined by their dean. Applicants must hold an eligible rank that is active in Workday at the time of submission. Those with acting, temporary, or postdoctoral appointments are ineligible to apply as PI or Co-PI, but may be included in the budget for the project team. Affiliate or visiting faculty may not receive salary from an RRF grant, but can be involved on the project team. If you have already received an RRF award, you may apply again two years after the previous RRF award was formally terminated and the final report received. If a UW faculty member holds an eligible rank but is based at another institution (e.g. Fred Hutchinson Cancer Center), all of their extramural grants must be run through the UW in order to be eligible for an RRF award. RRF Scholar applicants (those requesting one quarter of release time from teaching) must teach at least four regular and substantial courses per year. Independent study and dissertation supervision are not included. RRF proposals must support faculty development; this fund does not support independent research projects undertaken by graduate students and/or post-doctorates. Guidelines A PI or co-PI may submit one proposal per round. Our policy precludes PIs and co-PIs from having multiple funded proposals within the same period. There are no restrictions on participating faculty or staff who are not PIs or co-PIs. The RRF may not be proposed as matching funds for another grant. (See the Office of Research webpage, Matching Fund Requests for information and to make a request.) Applications can be made for external support of the same project, but an RRF award will not be given if an external award has been made. Support will not be provided merely to supplement or extend an ongoing funded research project. The RRF is not intended to provide or supplement start-up funds for new faculty. RRF awards are based on the quality of the research being proposed and are not intended to serve as bridge funding when external sources of research support have been lost. The University program that supports faculty bridge funds is the Bridge Funding Program. Acceptance of an RRF award of $30,000 or more will make an individual ineligible for a Bridge Fund award. Applicants who apply to both programs simultaneously may receive one or the other award. If an individual holds a Bridge Fund award and subsequently accepts an RRF award of $30,000 or more, any remaining Bridge Fund monies must be returned. A proposal that is not funded may be resubmitted twice (applicants are encouraged to take previous review comments into consideration). A proposal can be submitted a maximum of three times. Deadlines & How to Apply Fall Round Applications are available approximately mid-June Submissions are due 5:00 pm the last Monday in September Awards will be announced by January 15 Spring Round Applications are available in mid-January Submissions are due 5:00 pm the first Monday in March Awards will be announced by June 15 Instructions for Preparing an RRF Proposal are available here. There are two RRF opportunities: the standard RRF Program, and the RRF Scholar Program which funds the investigator’s release time from teaching. Application materials are the same for both programs. To review funded proposals, please contact past awardees directly. Proposal Review Process Proposals are reviewed by a faculty committee that recommends funding priorities to the Office of Research. The committee members solicit reviews from other UW faculty peers who provide comments and evaluate proposals based on explicit written criteria. The primary criterion is the merit of the proposal. Secondary criteria include suitability to the goals of the RRF and available opportunities and timeliness of the proposal for obtaining subsequent funding. In disciplines for which applicants may also be eligible to compete for federal funding (e.g., NIH, NSF), preference is given to junior faculty. Similarly, among proposals of comparable merit, preference is given to junior faculty. Proposals from senior faculty are funded only when they support a genuinely new direction in the applicant’s research and/or career development, provide a unique opportunity to compete for subsequent one-time (or infrequently offered) funding, or originate in a discipline for which external funding opportunities are minimal. Because reviewers may not be specialists in the applicant’s subfield, applicants should craft proposals so that researchers from a wider audience may understand it. Although technical field-specific information will be expected, the major features of the proposal should also be accessible to non-specialists. Questions New applicants should contact Peter Wilsnack, 206-685-9316 Existing awardees should contact Karen Luetjen, 206-616-9089 Home Office of Research Central COVID-19 Guidance for a Safe Return to In-Person Research Office of Research: Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Diversity, Equity, & Inclusion Committee Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Definitions OR Leadership Vice Provost for Research Sr. Associate Vice Provost for Research Administration and Integrity – Joe Giffels Associate Vice Provost for Research – Cecilia (Ceci) Giachelli Associate Vice Provost for Research Computing – Jim Pfaendtner OR/PNNL Liaison – Daniel Schwartz Associate Vice Provost for Data Science – Andrew Connolly UW Research Timeline Vision and Mission Advisory Boards Research Advisory Board iSTAR (Improving Service to Advance Research) Bridge Funding Program Royalty Research Fund (RRF) RRF at 30 Years Matching Funds Request DEI STEM Faculty Recruitment Initiative Research Stats & Rankings UW Annual Report of Awards and Expenditures and Monthly Research Award Summary Archives Honors and Awards Alan T. Waterman Award Albert Lasker Awards Alpha Chi Sigma Award for Chemical Engineering American Academy of Arts and Sciences American Association for the Advancement of Science American Philosophical Society August Vollmer Award Bôcher Memorial Prize Breakthrough Prize Fields Medal Gairdner Awards Howard Hughes Medical Institute Investigators International Cosmos Prize John Simon Guggenheim Memorial Foundation Kyoto Prize MacArthur Fellows National Academy of Engineering National Academy of Inventors National Academy of Medicine (formerly Institute of Medicine) National Academy of Public Administration National Academy of Sciences National Book Award National Medal of Arts National Medal of Science Nobel Prize Packard Fellowships for Science and Engineering Penrose Medal Presidential Award for Excellence in Science, Mathematics and Engineering Mentoring (PAESMEM) Presidential Early Career Awards in Science and Engineering Pulitzer Prize Sloan Research Fellowship The Shaw Prize Volvo Environment Prize Washington State Academy of Sciences Welch Award in Chemistry Wolf Prize Contact Us RRF For Applicants Instructions for Preparing an RRF Proposal SAGE for RRF Applications RRF Scholar Program RRF for Awardees List of Past RRF Awardees Guidelines for RRF Grants Scholar Budget Instructions RRF for Committee Members Committee Member Lists Application Review Process (*restricted) Did you know? Since it was started in 1992, the RRF program has funded 2,011 projects and provided over $57 million in research support to UW scholars. Contact Info for Royalty Research Fund New Applicants: Peter A. Wilsnack Administrative Specialist 206.685.9316 Existing Awardees: Karen H. Luetjen Manager of Internal Research Funding 206.616.9089 Program Chair: Katherine Stovel Professor, Sociology RRF 30 Years! RRF 30th Year webpage has testimonials from RRF awardees and a place to share your experiences. University of Washington Office of Research Tools MyResearch SAGE Zipline More Tools OR Support Offices Human Subjects Division (HSD) Office of Animal Welfare (OAW) Office of Research (OR) Office of Research Information Services (ORIS) Office of Sponsored Programs (OSP) OR Research Units Applied Physics Laboratory (APL-UW) WA National Primate Research Center (WaNPRC) Research Partner Offices CoMotion Corporate and Foundation Relations (CFR) Enivronmental Health and Safety (EH&S) Grant and Contract Accounting (GCA) Institute of Translational Health Sciences (ITHS) Management Accounting and Analysis (MAA) Post Award Fiscal Compliance (PAFC) Collaboration Research Expertise Centers and Institutes Interdisciplinary Resources Guidance for NIH Institutional Training Grants Collaborative Proposal Development Resources About Research Fact Sheet Research Annual Report Stats and Rankings Honors and Awards Office of Research Contact Us Manage Subscriptions Gerberding Hall G80 Box 351202 Seattle, WA 98195 Accessibility Jobs Campus Safety My UW Privacy Terms © 2022 University of Washington | Seattle, WA