Skip to content Xavier University Apply to Xavier Request Info Visit Campus Giving to Xavier Open search dialog Open Navigation Menu Undergraduate Admission Admission Process Undergraduate Application Tuition and Aid Visit Campus Make Your Commitment Contact Us Close Undergraduate Admission sub menu Graduate Admission Apply to Xavier Graduate Financial Aid Events and Information Sessions Contact Us Close Graduate Admission sub menu Academics Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs Student Outcomes Academic Support Education Abroad Honors Programs Xavier University Colleges Close Academics sub menu Campus Life Residence Halls Campus Dining Options Clubs and Organizations Diversity Faith and Service Recreational Sports Cincinnati Health and Wellness First-Year Experience Close Campus Life sub menu Athletics goxavier.com Close Athletics sub menu About Xavier Xavier University Rankings Mission, Vision, and Values What is Jesuit Education? Close About Xavier sub menu Apply to Xavier Request Info Visit Campus Giving to Xavier Current Students Alumni Relations Employees Parents and Families Employment Opportunities Maps and Directions Search Xavier University: Search Campus Dining Options Residence Halls Campus Dining Options Clubs and Organizations Diversity Faith and Service Health and Wellness Menu Residence Halls Campus Dining Options Clubs and Organizations Diversity Faith and Service Health and Wellness The James E. Hoff, S.J. Dining Commons The James E. Hoff, S.J. Dining Commons, known as "The Hoff," is the main campus dining hall located in Justice Hall. It is open to all students, faculty and staff for breakfast, lunch and dinner seven days a week during the academic year. COVID-19 Health and Safety Precautions We are taking every precaution to ensure the safety of our students, staff and visitors while they dine on campus. Xavier’s COVID-19 safety measures include practicing social distancing, wearing masks and disinfecting high contact areas regularly. Hoff Dining Commons Virtual Tour Launch Justice Hall (The Caf) Meal Plans for Students Xavier's on-campus residents are offered dining plans with unlimited access to Hoff Dining Commons. All other students choose from our six other dining plans with the ability to upgrade a plan at any point in the semester. Meal Plan Options Hoff Dining Commons Daily Menu Students enjoy multiple entrée options in The Hoff Dining Commons. Every morning students can get made-to-order eggs in any style. Hoff offers a fresh salad bar and made-from-scratch pizza daily, along with made-to-order sandwiches and pastas. View Daily Menu Sustainable Dining Options Our chefs use fresh, local ingredients whenever possible. Students use reusable to-go containers, made of dishwasher-safe recyclable plastic, for take-out meals, preventing over 400 single-use containers from entering landfills each day. Additional Dining Options In addition to the main dining hall, students enjoy several additional dining options on campus. Fujisan Fresh sushi, poke bowls and bubble tea. Located in the Gallagher Student Center (GSC). Burger 513 Serving American diner classics including burgers, chicken tenders, milkshakes and fries. Located in the Gallagher Student Center (GSC). Currito Burrito Fast, casual burritos, smoothies and salads. Located in Justice Hall. Pizza ATM Fresh, hot pizza in three minutes. Located in Justice Hall. Starbucks Coffee, pastries and breakfast sandwiches. Located inside the All For One Shop at University Station. Victory Perk Coffee and pastries. Located in the Gallagher Student Center (GSC) and Smith Hall. Take the Next Step Loading... Apply to Xavier Request Info Visit Campus Xavier University 3800 Victory Parkway Cincinnati, OH 45207 513-745-3000 Privacy Policy Accessibility Policy Non-Discrimination Policy Editor Access Xavier University on facebook Xavier University on twitter Xavier University on linkedin Xavier University on youtube Xavier University on instagram