Skip to main content Skip to main content Degree Programs Perkins Chapel Bridwell Library Skip to main content Apply Apply Give Give Contact Us Contact Us Follow Us Follow Us Facebook Follow Us Twitter Follow Us YouTube Follow Us Social Stream Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. Navigate Search Skip to main content Perkins School of Theology About About Mission Perkins United Methodist Seminaries Accreditation Statement of Educational Effectiveness Executive Board History Administration and Staff Habito Labyrinth Directions Campus Map Faculty & Academics Faculty & Academics Academic Services Bridwell Library Degree Programs Faculty by Teaching Area Faculty Listing A-Z Faculty Publications Perkins Video Library Global Theological Education Home Hybrid Houston-Galveston Extension Program Degree Interest Areas Perkins Intern Program Other Academic Programs Spiritual Formation Program Emeritus Faculty Open Faculty Positions Admission Admission Connect Visit Campus Apply Affording Seminary Admit Portal Student Life Student Life Academic Services Student Engagement Student Resources Alumni/ae & Friends Alumni/ae & Friends Update Your Records How to Get Involved Publications and News Events | Calendar Perkins Scholarship Luncheon Faith and Business Luncheon Series Distinguished Alumnus/a Award Seals Laity Award Make a Gift to Perkins News News News Archives Perkins Perspective Events Calendar External Programs and Centers External Programs and Centers Perkins Summit for Faith & Learning Certificate in Practical Ministry Certificate in Spiritual Direction Perkins Fall Convocation | November 15 - 16, 2021 Webinars & Hybrid Events Perkins School of Youth Ministry Course of Study | Curso de Estudio Center for Methodist Studies Center for Preaching Excellence Center for Religious Leadership Center for the Study of Latino/a Christianity and Religions El Programa de Ministerios Hispan@/Latin@ The Hispanic/Latino/a Ministries Program Video Library Contact Office of External Programs ☰ Perkins School of Theology Faculty & Academics Degree Programs Degree Programs Perkins offers a range of degree programs, allowing the student to follow a path best suited to his or her vocational direction. Many of these programs are structured so as to allow a concentration in a particular area of interest. The Master of Divinity (M.Div.) degree is designed primarily for students who plan to be ordained clergy and serve in Word, sacrament, service and order. It may also equip a person for other specialized ministries. The Master of Arts in Ministry (M.A.M.) degree program is intended to prepare students for faith-based ministry. The goal of the program is to increase students’ knowledge about the heritage of the Christian faith, the church, and its ministries. The Master of Sacred Music (M.S.M.) degree program is jointly sponsored by Perkins School of Theology and the Division of Music of Meadows School of the Arts as preparation for professional music leadership in the church and, if one chooses, ordination as deacon. The Master of Theological Studies (M.T.S.) degree program is designed to provide a basic understanding of the theological disciplines as a foundation for further graduate study, for enhancement of lay leadership roles or for personal enrichment. The Master of Theology (Th.M.) degree program is designed for students to enhance the practice of ministry through advanced study of a particular theological or pastoral discipline; to scholarly examine a specific aspect of the Christian religion/traditions or function of Christian ministry; or to prepare for more advanced study at the doctoral level. The Doctor of Ministry (D.Min.) degree provides the opportunity for advanced study that integrates theological reflection and ministerial practice with a contextual focus for people in professional ministry within the church. The Doctor of Pastoral Music (D.P.M.) degree program is designed for experienced church musicians who have achieved a Master of Sacred Music degree or its equivalent and who are devoted to increasing their effectiveness in and broadening their vision of the pastoral dimensions of music ministry. The degrees of Doctor of Philosophy (Ph.D.) and Master of Arts (M.A.) in Religious Studies are offered by the Graduate Program in Religious Studies in SMU's Dedman College.The primary goal of both degree programs is to prepare persons for professional careers as teacher-scholars in colleges, universities, and schools of theology. The MA degree program also aims to accommodate the qualified nonprofessional student interested in advanced work in religious studies within the context of the liberal arts and sciences. More detailed information on degree programs is available from the Perkins School of Theology. Degree Programs Master of Arts in Ministry (M.A.M.) Master of Divinity (M.Div.) Master of Sacred Music (M.S.M.) Master of Theological Studies (M.T.S.) Master of Theology (Th.M.) Doctor of Ministry (D.Min.) Doctor of Pastoral Music (D.P.M.) Request More Information Contact Information Request Form Loading... An Academy for the Whole Church in the Whole World Prepare to Serve Our groundbreaking Intern Program allows students to transform classroom knowledge into actual practical experience before graduation. Diverse Community We believe cross-cultural immersion experiences best teach students to build intercultural relationships, resolve cultural conflicts and guide intercultural ventures. Academic Excellence The combination of courses taught by renowned scholars with a diverse list of degree programs best prepares students for a wide variety of roles in ministry. Connect Visit Apply Contact Us Maps and Directions Legal Disclosures © SMU Perkins School of Theology, PO Box 750133, Dallas, TX 75275-0133 214-768-8436 or 1-888-843-6564 twitter facebook youtube share