Skip to main content Search for people, departments & websites Submit keywords Toggle search Columbia University Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Main navigation expanded Admissions Academics Research Campus Life About News You are here: Home Innovation Innovation Innovation @ Columbia From classrooms to labs to startup spaces, Columbians are taking their deep understanding of the world around them and creating the world of tomorrow. Innovation News at Columbia Helping Consumers Drive Change in the Fashion Industry With a Rating App Jeremy Yao MS’20 created Changing Room, a startup that gives fashionistas a way to shop smartly and sustainably online A Columbia Engineering Student Becomes an Inadvertent Entrepreneur Jern Kunpittaya ’23, co-founder of crypto startup Edge Protocol, took an unexpected path into decentralized finance. Columbia Lab Hatches Voyant Photonics Startup founders out of Lipson photonics lab receive $15.4 million investment to make machine sensing tech smaller and cheaper. Students Secure Funding to Prototype Lamppost Charging Stations for Electric Vehicles Voltpost, a company founded by two Columbia students, has secured $1.3 million in funding toward its mission to accelerate electric vehicle adoption by providing cities with scalable curbside charging for drivers. Video Bringing Inventions From the Lab to the Market Innovation Is Happening Across Columbia University Engineering Entrepreneurship at Columbia's Fu Foundation School of Engineering and Applied Science Entrepreneurship at the Engineering School promotes innovation and entrepreneurship among faculty, researchers, and students at the Fu Foundation School of Engineering and Applied Science. The Columbia Startup Lab Entrepreneurship, Innovation, and Design is a central location for information about the entrepreneurship ecosystem across the university and is home to the Columbia Startup Lab. Irving Institute for Clinical and Translational Research Irving Institute for Clinical and Translational Research is one of over 50 medical research institutions across the nation that work together to speed the translation of research discovery into improved patient care. Eugene M. Lang Entrepreneurship Center The Eugene M. Lang Entrepreneurship Center powers entrepreneurship, venture capital, and innovation at Columbia Business School and in the global entrepreneurial community. The Tamer Center for Social Enterprise at Columbia Business School The Tamer Center for Social Enterprise educates leaders to use business knowledge and management tools to address social and environmental challenges, and is based at Columbia Business School. Columbia Technology Ventures Technology Ventures is the tech transfer office for Columbia and a hub for development initiatives and industry collaborations, and is home to the Lab-to-Market Accelerator Network. The Makerspace at Columbia The Makerspace @ Columbia Collaboratory Enabling faculty to create innovative, interdisciplinary coursework. Columbia Venture Community A network of nearly 5,000 alumni, students, and employees interested in entrepreneurship. Licensing Columbia Tech See what Columbia Technologies are available for licensing. Columbia Commercialization & Entrepreneurial Resources Database Columbia Commercialization & Entrepreneurial Resources Database Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkedIn Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close