Student Health Center - University of Houston Skip to main content Restrict my search to UH Student Health Center Submit Close Student Affairs and Enrollment Services Login to AccessUH Give to UH Search Student Health Center Home About Us Hours of Operation Location and Parking Health Related Links and Communications Contact Us Calendar Meet Our Staff New Students After Hours Services Eligbility for Services Medical Services Primary Care Men's Health Orthopedic Clinic Psychiatry Clinic Women's Health Laboratory Immunizations UH-Sponsored Camps/Activities COVID-19 Vaccine UH Faculty and Staff Campus Pharmacy Charges and Insurance Student Health Insurance Cost of Services International Students What do you need to do? Acknowledgement of Health Insurance Notification Enrollment Activation Waiver Request Frequently Asked Questions Healthy Coog Portal Forms & Policies Giving YOUR HEALTH CHOICE FUTURE Our mission at the Student Health Center is to provide cost-effective, comprehensive, compassionate and quality primary medical care to all UH students so they can learn best health practices and maintain their focus on successful academic outcomes. Healthy Coog Portal Charges & Insurance Services Search Student Health Center Search 4349 Martin Luther King Blvd, Room 2005 713-743-5151 713-743-5164 Medical Emergencies - 911 The Latest Updates on COVID-19 Recent Announcements Flu Vaccine Flu shots are available by appointment at the Campus Pharmacy. The Campus Pharmacy accepts many insurance plans with prescription coverage. COVID-19 Vaccine The Pfizer COVID-19 Vaccine is now available by appointment at the Campus Pharmacy. On-Campus COVID-19 Testing The University of Houston is partnering with the well-known testing company Curative to provide a free, walk-up kiosk on campus where faculty, students and staff can be tested regardless of whether they have symptoms. Schedule an Appointment UH Go App Check us out on the UH Go App. You now have quick access on your mobile device to the Student Health Center website, the patient portal, after hour information, and important announcements. Get the UH Go App Information & Resources New Students The Student Health Center welcomes you to the University of Houston. Our mission is to provide cost-effective, comprehensive, compassionate, and quality primary medical care to all UH students so they can learn best health practices and maintain their focus on successful academic outcomes. We hope the information on our New Students page will orient you to our services. International Students International students with "F" or "J" visa status are required to be covered under the UHS Student Health Insurance Plan or have equivalent health insurance coverage, regardless of the number of credit hours taken. The University of Houston does not require international students with “non-F” or “non-J” visa status to show proof of health insurance. Parents The University of Houston Student Health Center is a comprehensive primary Health Care Facility. We offer affordable and accessible quality primary medical and mental health care. Our Pharmacy offers prescription and non-prescription medications at competitive prices often lower than off-campus. Learn more about the services we offer your student. After Hours Options If you get sick after hours, on weekends or holidays and you would like to be seen by a physician, you may seek off-campus health care. There are many options in the Houston area. The list of Convenient Care and Urgent Care Centers on our after hours page offers some suggestions but does not include all available medical facilities. After Hours Calendar & Reminders See Full Calendar Aug 03 12:00 am Student Health Center Closed for Staff Training The Student Health Center will be closed for staff training. Follow Us on Social Media Twitter Facebook Instagram Powered by Curator.io Accredited by the ACCREDITATION ASSOCIATION for AMBULATORY HEALTH CARE, INC. (AAAHC) University of Houston Houston, Texas 77204 (713) 743-2255 A–Z Index Academic Calendar Campus Carry Policy Campus Map Career Opportunities Directory Emergency Information Get Help Human Resources Library Mental Health Resources Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Office of the President Parking Report Copyright Infringement Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness Open Records/Public Information Act Texas Veterans Portal Tuition & Fees UH System Virtual Tour ©2022 University of Houston. All rights reserved. Report a problem with this page Texas.gov Texas Homeland Security TRAIL Fraud Reporting Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Linking Notice Privacy Notice Open Records/Public Information Act Institutional Résumé Required Reports Electronic & Information Resources Accessibility Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness University Policies