Skip to main content Undergraduate Admissions Navigation Academics Admissions FreshmanTransferInternationalTransient, Non-Degree Seeking and Second Bachelor’sDual Enrollment and Early AdmissionAdmitted StudentsRequest InfoCheck Status Cost and Aid Visit FAQs View All FAQsFreshmanApplication ProcessAdmitted StudentsCost, Fees and Financial AidCampus Visits and ToursHousing and Campus Life Resources For High School StudentsFor ParentsFor CounselorsVirtual Info SessionsAdmission FormsJoin Our Mailing ListContact Us Apply Visit UCF Discover What It’s Like to Be a Knight Skip to Section UCF is calling. And the best way to get to know us is to visit. Take a tour of our campus — in-person, livestreamed or self-guided — to get a sense of all there is to love about UCF. From our state-of-the-art classrooms to our recreational facilities, 80-acre nature preserve and sporting venues, you’ll discover how much there is to see and do here. However you choose to experience UCF, we’re ready to make an unforgettable first impression. We can’t wait to meet you and give you a big, warm welcome. Explore Campus In-Person Campus Tours Main Campus Rosen College UCF Downtown Weekday campus tours begin at the Duke Energy UCF Welcome Center with a 15-minute information session, followed by a 90-minute walking tour of the campus led by a UCF student ambassador. Campus tours fill up quickly, so sign up today. Tours of select UCF housing communities are offered by the Department of Housing and Residence Life. Please visit their website to view available dates and times and book a Housing Tour. Guided group tours of Main Campus are limited to high school groups of 50 or fewer students. If you are a school or a tour provider and would like to bring a group of students to campus, please email us at [email protected]. When Monday through Friday (excluding holidays and university breaks) at 10 a.m. and 2 p.m. EDT Where Check in at the Duke Energy UCF Welcome Center Duration 2 hours Registration is required. Schedule a main campus tour Tours of the Rosen College of Hospitality Management campus begin with a 15-minute information session, followed by a 45-minute walking tour of the campus led by a Rosen College student ambassador. You may preview the Rosen College Apartments during your tour. Campus tours are limited in size, so sign up early; walk-ins will be accommodated only on a space-available basis. When Mondays and Fridays at 1 p.m. (except holidays) Where Check-in at the Rosen College of Hospitality Management, Hall of Fame Lobby Duration 1 hour Reservations are recommended. Schedule a Rosen campus tour UCF Downtown campus tours begin at UnionWest in Creative Village with a 30-minute information session, followed by a 90-minute walking tour of the campus led by a UCF Downtown student ambassador. You may preview the UnionWest residence hall following your tour (additional registration is required). Campus tours are limited in size, so sign up early. When First & third Friday of the month at 10 a.m. (except holidays) Where Check in at UnionWest – 601 W. Livingston St., Orlando, 32801 Duration 2 hours Reservations are required. Schedule a Downtown campus tour Livestreamed Campus Tours Follow along as our enthusiastic and knowledgeable student tour guides show you around campus. Virtual tours are livestreamed on Instagram. Have questions? Go ahead and ask! We’ll answer them live. When First and third Wednesday of the month at 10 a.m. EDT Where Instagram @ucfadmissions Duration 60 minutes Registration is not required. View livestream tour on Instagram Knight For A Day Open Houses Join the students, faculty and staff of UCF for a daylong open house event. This is your opportunity to learn first-hand about our campus, academic programs, student life, financial aid and much more. Check-in begins at 8 a.m. and activities are scheduled between 9 a.m. and 3 p.m. View a sample agenda and check our our FAQs for more information. Registration is required and space is limited, so we encourage you to sign up early. When Select Saturdays from July through January Where Check in at the Student Union Duration 6 hours Registration is required. Register for Open House July 16, 2022 Self-guided Campus Tour Want to explore campus on your own? This tour begins in front of Millican Hall at the Reflecting Pond, and it concludes at the Recreation and Wellness Center. There are 10 stops on the self-guided tour. Download the Self-Guided Tour Map Take a Virtual Tour of Campus There’s a lot to see and do at UCF. And being familiar with our campuses — whether you’re taking classes at the main campus, Rosen College of Hospitality Management or UCF Downtown — helps you take advantage of everything we offer. Find out what it’s like to be a Knight. Starting Points Become familiar with the places you’ll immediately need to know. Heart of Campus Hang with friends, access resources or grab a bite in these spaces. Recreation and Academics Connect with others at our recreation area, Greek housing and academic buildings. Athletics Village Here are the spots where our biggest and most exciting gatherings happen. Health and Wellness Resources Access help and stay healthy through dedicated departments. Housing, Fitness and Safety Get a look at housing options, our expansive gym and police department. UCF Downtown View the campus, classrooms and services offered at UCF Downtown. Rosen College of Hospitality Management Tour the facilities and services offered at our Hospitality Management campus. UCF Campus Tour Playlist 1 Starting Points 2 Heart of Campus 3 Recreation and Academics 4 Athletics Village 5 Health and Wellness Resources 6 Housing, Fitness and Safety 7 UCF Downtown 8 Rosen College of Hospitality Management Questions? We’ve Got Answers. Take part in a virtual info session and learn why UCF is the best choice for you. Whether you want to cover the application process with an admissions counselor or talk with current Knights about what campus is really like, we’ve got something just for you. Sign up for a virtual info session Explore Orlando’s Hometown University View Our Interactive Campus Map Apply Now We’ve made it easier than ever to apply to UCF. Start your application today. Freshman Admissions Criteria Review UCF’s freshman admissions requirements to be considered for admission. Transfer Admissions Criteria Review UCF’s transfer admissions requirements to be considered for admission. Contact Us Mailing Address P.O. Box 160111 Orlando, FL 32816-0111 Contact Email: [email protected] Phone: 844-376-9160 Fax: 407-823-5625 Business Hours Mon - Fri: 9 a.m. - 5 p.m. Closed Weekends & Holidays Application Deadlines Freshman Applicants Fall: May 1 Spring: November 1 Summer: March 1 Transfer Applicants Fall: July 1 Spring: November 1 Summer: March 1 International Applicants Fall: March 1 Spring: September 1 Summer: January 1 More Resources FAQs Admission Forms Accreditation Annual Security Report Accessibility Request Info Let’s Get Social Facebook Twitter