<form runat="server"></form>
<WebPartPages:SPWebPartManager runat="server"/>
 Skip to Main Content HBS Home About Academic Programs Alumni Faculty & Research Baker Library Giving Harvard Business Review Initiatives News Recruit Map / Directions Alumni Login Volunteer Clubs Reunions Bulletin Class Notes Help Give Now Stories Alumni Directory Lifelong Learning Careers Programs & Events Giving …→ Harvard Business School→ Alumni→ Giving→ How to Give How to Give Ways to Give Today Planned Giving FAQ → FAQ→ Giving FAQ Why Give Why Your Gift Matters Why Your Gift Matters What You Can Support HBS Fund HBS Fund Diversity & Equity Diversity & Equity Educational Innovation Educational Innovation Faculty & Research Faculty & Research Global Activities Global Activities HBS-Harvard Collaborations HBS-Harvard Collaborations Student Financial Aid Student Financial Aid What You Can Support HBS Fund HBS Fund Diversity & Equity Diversity & Equity Educational Innovation Educational Innovation Faculty & Research Faculty & Research Global Activities Global Activities HBS-Harvard Collaborations HBS-Harvard Collaborations Student Financial Aid Student Financial Aid Recognizing Our Donors Annual Contributors Report Annual Contributors Report Donor Societies Donor Societies Recognizing Our Donors Annual Contributors Report Annual Contributors Report Donor Societies Donor Societies A Tradition of Philanthropy A Tradition of Philanthropy Why Your Gift Matters Why Your Gift Matters What You Can Support HBS Fund HBS Fund Diversity & Equity Diversity & Equity Educational Innovation Educational Innovation Faculty & Research Faculty & Research Global Activities Global Activities HBS-Harvard Collaborations HBS-Harvard Collaborations Student Financial Aid Student Financial Aid What You Can Support HBS Fund HBS Fund Diversity & Equity Diversity & Equity Educational Innovation Educational Innovation Faculty & Research Faculty & Research Global Activities Global Activities HBS-Harvard Collaborations HBS-Harvard Collaborations Student Financial Aid Student Financial Aid Recognizing Our Donors Annual Contributors Report Annual Contributors Report Donor Societies Donor Societies Recognizing Our Donors Annual Contributors Report Annual Contributors Report Donor Societies Donor Societies A Tradition of Philanthropy A Tradition of Philanthropy How to Give Ways to Give Today Ways to Give Today By Credit Card By Credit Card By Check By Check By Wire Transfer By Wire Transfer With Stock With Stock Donor-Advised Fund Donor-Advised Fund From Your IRA From Your IRA International Giving International Giving Planned Giving Planned Giving FAQ FAQ Ways to Give Today Ways to Give Today By Credit Card By Credit Card By Check By Check By Wire Transfer By Wire Transfer With Stock With Stock Donor-Advised Fund Donor-Advised Fund From Your IRA From Your IRA International Giving International Giving Planned Giving Planned Giving FAQ FAQ Giving Why Give Why Your Gift Matters Why Your Gift Matters What You Can Support HBS Fund HBS Fund Diversity & Equity Diversity & Equity Educational Innovation Educational Innovation Faculty & Research Faculty & Research Global Activities Global Activities HBS-Harvard Collaborations HBS-Harvard Collaborations Student Financial Aid Student Financial Aid What You Can Support HBS Fund HBS Fund Diversity & Equity Diversity & Equity Educational Innovation Educational Innovation Faculty & Research Faculty & Research Global Activities Global Activities HBS-Harvard Collaborations HBS-Harvard Collaborations Student Financial Aid Student Financial Aid Recognizing Our Donors Annual Contributors Report Annual Contributors Report Donor Societies Donor Societies Recognizing Our Donors Annual Contributors Report Annual Contributors Report Donor Societies Donor Societies A Tradition of Philanthropy A Tradition of Philanthropy Why Your Gift Matters Why Your Gift Matters What You Can Support HBS Fund HBS Fund Diversity & Equity Diversity & Equity Educational Innovation Educational Innovation Faculty & Research Faculty & Research Global Activities Global Activities HBS-Harvard Collaborations HBS-Harvard Collaborations Student Financial Aid Student Financial Aid What You Can Support HBS Fund HBS Fund Diversity & Equity Diversity & Equity Educational Innovation Educational Innovation Faculty & Research Faculty & Research Global Activities Global Activities HBS-Harvard Collaborations HBS-Harvard Collaborations Student Financial Aid Student Financial Aid Recognizing Our Donors Annual Contributors Report Annual Contributors Report Donor Societies Donor Societies Recognizing Our Donors Annual Contributors Report Annual Contributors Report Donor Societies Donor Societies A Tradition of Philanthropy A Tradition of Philanthropy How to Give Ways to Give Today Ways to Give Today By Credit Card By Credit Card By Check By Check By Wire Transfer By Wire Transfer With Stock With Stock Donor-Advised Fund Donor-Advised Fund From Your IRA From Your IRA International Giving International Giving Planned Giving Planned Giving FAQ FAQ Ways to Give Today Ways to Give Today By Credit Card By Credit Card By Check By Check By Wire Transfer By Wire Transfer With Stock With Stock Donor-Advised Fund Donor-Advised Fund From Your IRA From Your IRA International Giving International Giving Planned Giving Planned Giving FAQ FAQ FAQ What is the School’s Federal Tax Identification Number? HBS gifts are managed under the umbrella of Harvard University’s Federal Tax Identification Number, which is 04–2103580. Harvard University’s legal name is President and Fellows of Harvard College. When will I receive a tax receipt for my gift? You can expect to receive an official receipt via mail 10–15 business days after HBS receives your gift. How can I get a duplicate tax receipt for my gift? To request a duplicate receipt, contact Harvard Alumni and Development Services at 617.495.1750 or ads@harvard.edu. Will my gift to HBS be credited to my class automatically? Yes. Will my spouse and I both receive credit for a gift to HBS? Joint crediting does not happen automatically. Alumni couples must indicate—on the online giving form or gift reply slip—if they would like their gift to be credited jointly. In that case, the amount will be split 50/50 for tax purposes but each person will receive class credit and recognition for the full amount of the gift. Contact HBS Gift Management at 617.495.6207 or gifts@hbs.edu if you have additional questions about crediting. How do I make a pledge? To pledge a gift that you will fulfill at a later date, please call HBS Development at 617.495.6881 (toll free: 877.448.3864). Will I be recognized for pledge payments? All donors are recognized in HBS’s annual Contributors Report for the full amount of any gifts and pledges made during the fiscal year (July 1–June 30), and for pledge payments as they are received. When do I need to fulfill my pledge? Guidelines for payments differ for reunion and non-reunion (annual giving) pledges. Reunion Pledges: For the 5th, 10th, 15th, 20th, 50th, and beyond: Pledges must be made by June 30 following the reunion and should be fulfilled by the following December 31. For the 25th, 30th, 35th, 40th, and 45th: Pledges must be made by December 31 following the reunion and should be fulfilled by the following June 30. Non-Reunion (Annual Giving) Pledges: Pledges must be paid by the end of the fiscal year, June 30, to be counted in that year’s giving totals and listed in the HBS's annual Contributors Report. For questions about an existing pledge or payment schedule adjustments, please contact HBS Gift Management at gifts@hbs.edu or 617.495.6207. Is my pledge legally binding? Most standard (non-bequest) pledges are not legally binding. If your pledge is legally binding, the gift intention agreement will include the following language (or similar): “It is my intention that the Agreement shall create obligations that are binding and enforceable against me, my heirs, executors, administrators, representatives, assigns, and estates.” How can I make a gift in honor or in memory of someone? Use this form and check the box labeled “This gift is in honor or memorial of someone,” or mail a check to Harvard Business School, P.O. Box 412275, Boston, MA 02241-2275. HBS will attempt to contact the person being honored/memorialized—or someone close to them—to inform them of your gift (without reference to the specific gift amount), so please provide relevant contact information and any other pertinent details. How do I make a gift via a donor-advised fund? Contact your fund administrator to request a distribution or beneficiary form or download the appropriate form(s) from your administrator’s website. Please refer to the following information when contacting your administrator: Legal Name: President and Fellows of Harvard College Address: Harvard Business School, P.O. Box 412275, Boston, MA 02241-2275 Federal Tax ID Number: 04–2103580 How can I view my giving history? You can view recent giving history by logging in on the Alumni Home Page. Then click on the “My HBS” tab underneath your name and scroll to “View Giving History.” What are the advantages of giving online? Credit card giving—using HBS’s secure online giving form—saves donors time and postage costs. It also allows HBS to process gifts more quickly so that the funds can be put to use almost immediately. How can I set up a recurring gift? Use our secure online form to set up a recurring gift on an annual or monthly basis. The former will ensure that your support of HBS doesn’t lapse inadvertently, while the latter could enable you to increase your total giving by spreading out payments. Note that for monthly recurring gifts, your cumulative giving for the fiscal year (July 1–June 30) will be counted in class results and recognized in HBS’s annual Contributors Report. Your recurring gift will continue indefinitely, but you can modify your gift amount, credit card number, or other details at any time by contacting HBS Gift Management at 617.495.6207 or gifts@hbs.edu. What is a "consistent donor" and how are they recognized? In HBS’s annual Contributors Report, individuals who have given to the School in at least four of the previous five years are highlighted in class donor lists as “consistent donors.” How can I take advantage of my company's matching gift program? You can use our online search tool or contact your company's human resources office to find out if your employer matches charitable gifts and to learn about associated policies and procedures. If you have questions, call Harvard Alumni and Development Services at 617.495.1750 or email ads@harvard.edu. Please send your company's matching gift form to: Alumni & Development Services Harvard University 124 Mt. Auburn Street Cambridge, MA 02138 Upon receipt, matching gifts count toward a donor's total giving. Where do I send my check? Your check, made payable to Harvard Business School, should be mailed to Harvard Business School, P.O. Box 412275, Boston, MA 02241-2275. If using FedEx, UPS, DHL, or any other service that cannot deliver to a P.O. box, mail check to Bank of America Lockbox Services, HBS-ADS 412275, MA5-527-02-07, 2 Morrissey Boulevard, Dorchester, MA 02125. How do I wire a gift? You can wire funds directly from your bank to HBS. Note that you must provide your name and gift purpose to ensure proper crediting. Receiving Bank: Bank of America, 100 Federal Street, Boston, MA 02110 Beneficiary Legal Account: President and fellows of Harvard College, ADS Account Account #: 9429263621 ACH Routing #: 011000138 Wire Routing #: 026009593 Swift Code (international donors): BOFAUS3N Memo / Reference: Donor name and degree/year; gift purpose: HBS and fund name How do I make a gift of securities (stock)? To transfer stock, contact Alumni and Development Services – Trust Administration at 866.845.6596 or donorsecuritygifts@harvard.edu. To ensure proper processing of your gift, complete this online form to notify us of your stock transfer. Donors may take a charitable income tax deduction for its mean fair market value on the date of the gift and avoid capital gains tax. How do I make a tax-deductible gift if I live outside of the United States? HBS has created charitable entities in France, Germany, India, and the United Kingdom to enable alumni and friends to support the School and be eligible for either a tax deduction or tax credit. Learn more by visiting Ways to Give Today. What is HBS’s fiscal year? The School’s fiscal year runs from July 1 through June 30. Planned Giving What is planned giving? Planned giving encompasses a variety of strategies that enable you to support HBS during your lifetime or at your passing, while also fulfilling your tax, estate, and/or financial planning goals. How can I let HBS know that I’ve included the School in my will? Contact the HBS Development Office at pg@hbs.edu or 877.448.3864. We would be pleased to learn more about your bequest intention and thank you with membership in the John C. Whitehead Society. What is the John C. Whitehead Society? The Society recognizes alumni and friends who make planned gifts to HBS. It was named in honor of the late John C. Whitehead (MBA 1947), a visionary business leader, government official, and philanthropist. How old do I need to be to make a planned gift? It is never too early to plan for the future. HBS’s planned giving donors include alumni from every decade. While some types of planned gifts have a minimum age, you can include HBS in your will at any time. Is there a minimum amount to make a planned gift? While some types of planned gifts require a minimum amount, you can include a gift of any amount in your will. Do you have suggested bequest language that I can share with my attorney? You can find suggested bequest language to include in your will on our website or contact the HBS Development Office at pg@hbs.edu or 877.448.3864 for help in crafting language that reflects your wishes and makes a lasting difference at HBS. Who should an executor or an attorney representing an estate in probate contact? Please contact the Trust Administration team within Harvard’s Alumni and Development Services Department at donorestates@harvard.edu. ǁ External Relations Harvard Business School Teele Hall Soldiers Field Boston, MA 02163 Phone: 1.617.495.6890 Email: alumni+hbs.edu →Map & Directions →More Contact Information Make a Gift Site Map Jobs Harvard University Trademarks Policies Digital Accessibility Terms of Use Copyright © President & Fellows of Harvard College