Your browser does not support iframes. Skip to main content Menu Scheller College of Business Request More Information Attend an Info Session Contact Us Directory Apply Now Search Why Scheller? Programs Executive Education Academics Centers & Initiatives News & Events Overview & History Dean's Message and Report Meet Ernest Scheller Jr. Advisory Board Accreditation Strategic Plan Business at Tech Graduates Get Hired Return on Investment Faculty and Advisors Global Perspective A Good Fit Corporate Engagement Trading Floor Georgia Tech Community Student Life Making Connections and Learning Opportunities Diversity Diversity News Career and Recruiter Services Career Services for Students Hire Our Students Giving to the College Meeting the Challenge Priorities and Needs Faculty Support Student Support Program Enrichment Unrestricted Endowment The Impact of Your Gift How to Make a Gift FAQs Scheller MBA Annual Fund Alumni Network Alumni News Alumni Resources Update Contact Information Visit Campus Tech Square and Atlanta Full-time MBA Admissions Curriculum Career Development Leadership Development Student Organizations Student & Alumni Profiles Meet an MBA Ambassador FAQsEvening MBA Admissions Curriculum Career Advancement Leadership Development Student Organizations Student & Alumni Profiles Meet an MBA Ambassador FAQs Executive MBA Admissions Curriculum Career Development Student & Alumni Profiles FAQsMBA Programs Which Georgia Tech MBA is Right for Me? Commitment to Diversity, Inclusion, and Equity Dual Degree Options Experiential Learning For Engineers For Military Community MD/MBA Option MBA Early Admission for Undergrads Rankings The Intersection Podcast Earn Your MBA in Atlanta Graduate Certificate Business Analytics Certificate Undergraduate Admissions Curriculum Career Services Student Services Student Life Scholarships & Awards Rankings & Stats Connect With Us The Intersection Podcast, Undergrad PhD Concentrations Program Milestones Faculty and Staff Funding Admissions FAQs Recruiting Events Student Bios Program News Request Program Information Interdisciplinary M.S. M.S. in Quantitative & Computational Finance (QCF) Master of Science in Analytics at Georgia Tech Lean Six Sigma Certification Lean Six Sigma Green Belt Certification Lean Six Sigma Black Belt Certification FAQs Custom Programs FAQs Accounting Finance Information Technology Management Law & Ethics Marketing Operations Management Organizational Behavior Strategy & Innovation Student Certificates Engineering Entrepreneurship Entrepreneurship International Management Management of Technology Technology Innovation: Generating Economic Results Academic Speaker Series Guest Speakers in Accounting Guest Speakers in Finance Guest Speakers in Marketing Current Faculty Opportunities Business Analytics Center Engage with Us Executive Council News Research Education People Cecil B. Day Program for Business Ethics About Cecil B. Day The Cecil B. Day Prize Speakers and Events Faculty Support Net Impact Center for International Business Education and Research Projects Research Events Books People at CIBER Inside CIBER News and Events Archives International Management Certificate Sign Up for Future CIBER News Financial Analysis Lab Subscribe to Reports Institute for Leadership and Social Impact About Us Programs News Impact Speaker Series Leadership for Social Good Study Abroad Program Social Impact Fellows Ideas to Serve (I2S) Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Servant Leadership Programs Minor in Leadership Studies Excel Alumni Other ILSI Programs Partnerships Program for Engineering Entrepreneurship Ray C. Anderson Center for Sustainable Business About Us Sustainable Business Insights Research Briefs Sustainable Business Events Sustainable Business News Blog Research & Thought Leadership Empowering Students Industry Engagement Newsletter Participating in the Drawdown Georgia Compact Drawdown Georgia Business Compact Meet the Team Alumni Steven A. Denning Technology & Management Program Director's Message About Steven A. Denning T&M Curriculum Program Faculty & Staff Admissions T&M Corporate Affiliates Denning T&M Program News TI:GER® and CDL-Atlanta Program Network TI:GER MBA & PhD FAQs News Apply Inquire Resources in Technology Innovation and Entrepreneurship Scheller News Event Calendar The Intersection Podcast Media Inquiry Marketing Innovation Conference @ Scheller PhD Program News Home » Programs » PhD » Program News Menu PhD Concentrations Program Milestones Faculty and Staff Funding Admissions FAQs Recruiting Events Student Bios Program News Request Program Information Latest Posts April 15, 2022 How to Navigate the Academic Job Search Experience: Advice From Graduating Scheller Ph.D. Students Graduating Ph.D. students from the Georgia Tech Scheller College of Business share their best advice for managing applications, interviews, job talks, and more during the academic job search process. Read more November 16, 2021 How to Navigate the Journal Peer Review Process: Guidance From Scheller Faculty for Ph.D. Students Scheller faculty Dong Liu, Morvarid Rahmani, and Adithya Pattabhiramaiah share advice for Ph.D. students about the peer review process. Read more November 01, 2021 Georgia Tech Scheller Lizhen Xu and Dezhi Yin Win Sandra A. Slaughter Early Career Award at INFORMS Georgia Tech Scheller College of Business associate professor Linzhen Zu and Ph.D. alumnus Dezhi Yin have won the Sandy Slaughter Early Career Award from INFORMS. Read more March 25, 2021 Breaking Barriers: Meet the First Women of Scheller Learn about the first woman dean, PhD graduate, and GBC president of the Georgia Tech Scheller College of Business and how they broke barriers to pave the way for current students. Read more October 27, 2020 Georgia Tech Scheller College of Business Forms Diversity & Inclusion Council The Georgia Tech Scheller College Diversity & Inclusion Council has been created to foster organizational change and create equal access to opportunities for educational and professional growth and advancement. Read more July 23, 2020 Graduation 2020 Profiles: Cheng He, PhD Student in Marketing As part of Scheller’s Graduation 2020 Profiles series, we interviewed a few soon-to-be graduates from our doctoral program to learn about their backgrounds. Meet Cheng He. Read more July 08, 2020 Graduation 2020 Profiles: Nikhil Paradkar, PhD Student in Finance As part of Scheller’s Graduation 2020 Profiles series, we interviewed a few soon-to-be graduates from our doctoral program to learn about their backgrounds, why they chose Scheller College, and their advice for individuals interested in an academic career. Meet Nikhil Paradkar. Read more May 21, 2020 Scheller Doctoral Student Chris Green Promoted to Lieutenant Colonel Scheller College of Business doctoral student Chris Green recently received a promotion from Major to Lieutenant Colonel in the United States Army. The ceremony took place at Scheller College in front of faculty, staff, students and family members - a first for the College. Read more February 21, 2020 Doctoral Candidate Publishes Solo-authored Paper on Dense Neighborhoods in Urban Settings Scheller College of Business doctoral student Maria Roche’s research was featured in the recent article “The Particular Creativity of Dense Urban Neighborhoods” by City Lab. The study finds that neighborhood form—in particular the density and layout of its streets—has a considerable effect on innovation. Read more November 07, 2019 Toschia Hogan Awarded National Black MBA Association Doctoral Scholarship Scheller College of Business doctoral candidate, Toschia M. Hogan, received The National Black MBA Association (NBMBAA) Atlanta Chapter Doctoral Scholarship on November 1, 2019. Read more September 23, 2019 Scheller PhD student and CPA, Kathryn Holmstrom, Awarded William (Bill) Ezzell Scholarship The American Institute of CPAs (AICPA) Foundation awarded the first William (Bill) Ezzell Scholarships to five CPAs pursuing doctorates in accounting. Read more July 10, 2019 Scheller College Assistant Professor Tiffany Johnson Featured in “Age of Empowerment” Series on Women at Tech Dr. Tiffany D. Johnson was recently featured as one of the exceptional women in the series “An Age of Empowerment." Read more May 06, 2019 Countdown to Commencement: Jordan Samet, PhD As part of Scheller’s Countdown to Commencement series, we interviewed a few soon-to-be graduates from our undergraduate, MBA, and Ph.D. programs to learn about their backgrounds, why they chose Scheller College, and what they plan to do after Spring 2019 Commencement. Read more April 12, 2019 Countdown to Commencement: Zhanfei Lei, PhD Student As part of Scheller’s Countdown to Commencement series, we interviewed a few soon-to-be graduates from our Undergraduate, MBA, and Ph.D. programs to learn about their backgrounds, why they chose Scheller College, and what they plan to do after Spring 2019 Commencement Read more April 05, 2019 Scheller College Celebrates Honors Day 2019 On Thursday, April 4, Scheller College of Business held its eleventh annual Honors Day at the Renaissance Hotel Midtown to celebrate the accomplishments of students, faculty, and staff and the generous support of Scheller College benefactors. Read more March 27, 2019 U.S. News & World Report Features Scheller College in Business School Diversity Story The soon-to-be-released Best Business Schools 2020 issue from U.S. News & World Report features Scheller College in an article "What to Consider About Business School Diversity - MBA programs are stepping up efforts to recruit and retain women and minorities." Read more March 20, 2019 Leaders on Leadership: A Conversation with Mike Duke, President and CEO of Walmart (retired) and Dean Maryam Alavi Michael (Mike) Duke, retired president and chief executive officer, of Walmart discusses leadership with Dean Alavi Read more March 01, 2019 Diversity & Inclusion Spotlight: Dionne Nickerson Dionne Nickerson is a Ph.D. candidate in Marketing at Scheller College of Business and Georgia Tech Diversity and Inclusion Fellow. Read more February 28, 2019 Dean Maryam Alavi Presents “Women & Leadership: An Era of Innovation & Opportunity” at Georgia Tech Diversity and Inclusion Program Dean Maryam Alavi recently led a discussion for the Georgia Tech Leading Women@Tech program. Read more February 27, 2019 Trailblazer Nzinga Shaw Shares Diversity and Inclusion Best Practices at Scheller College Trailblazer Nzinga Shaw recently shared diversity and inclusion best practices at Scheller College. Read more February 26, 2019 Andrei Iancu, Director of the United States Patent and Trademark Office, Leads Scheller College Discussion on Innovation Director of the United States Patent and Trademark Office and Under Secretary of Commerce for Intellectual Property Andrei Iancu led a discussion at Scheller College of Business on innovation and invention. Read more January 04, 2019 Scheller College Receives Gold Recognition Through the Georgia Tech Work Green Program Scheller College is the first and largest entity on the Georgia Tech campus to be awarded the highest level of certification through the Work Green program. Read more December 14, 2018 Scheller College of Business Dean Maryam Alavi Co-hosts “Fireside Chat” on Artificial Intelligence and the Workforce of the Future at Accenture Atlanta's Innovation Hub Opening Scheller Dean Maryam Alavi co-hosted a discussion at the opening of Accenture Atlanta's Innovation Hub to explain how artificial intelligence is changing the workforce game. Read more April 20, 2018 Scheller College Celebrates Honors Day 2018 Scheller College of Business celebrated its tenth annual Honors Day, recognizing the accomplishments of students, faculty, and staff as well as the generosity of Scheller College benefactors. While already being one of the most joyous occasions of the year at the College, the event was made even more special by the attendance of the College’s namesake, Ernest Scheller, Jr. Read more November 29, 2017 More Effective Delivery Model for Humanitarian Aid Researchers from Georgia Institute of Technology Scheller College of Business and Georgia Institute of Technology H. Milton Stewart School of Industrial and Systems Engineering have identified how medical surplus items can be distributed more effectively by humanitarian organizations. Read more July 07, 2017 Scheller College Professor L. Beril Toktay Named Fellow by MSOM The Manufacturing and Service Operations Management Society (MSOM) has elected Professor L. Beril Toktay as a Distinguished Fellow of the organization. "Election as an MSOM Fellow should be considered a rare distinction," according to the society's web site. Read more September 15, 2016 Scheller College Ph.D. Student is Helping Promote Sustainability Efforts for Corporations and Consumers Dionne Nickerson, a Ph.D. marketing candidate in the Scheller College of Business, researches the way companies and consumers can promote positive social change. Read more August 30, 2016 Scheller MBA Students Visit Innovation Centers in Tech Square Georgia Tech Scheller College MBA students got a first-hand view of innovative technologies in their own backyard on Friday, Aug. 19. New MBA students concluded a successful two-week orientation with the new addition of a tour of nine innovation centers located in Technology Square. Read more May 10, 2016 Significant Portion of Postdoc Researchers Eye Non-Academic Careers, Study Shows For doctoral students studying science, technology, engineering and mathematics, landing a job as a research-oriented college or university faculty member typically requires having spent time as a postdoctoral researcher. Read more March 28, 2016 In the Classroom with Michael Smith Michael Smith uses his Georgia Tech education and experience to reach students in the classroom. Read more May 13, 2015 Scheller College Will Host Prestigious SFS Finance Cavalcade May 17-20 Nearly 300 leaders in the finance field, including faculty from top universities from around the world and members of the Federal Reserve System and the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, will converge at Georgia Tech Scheller College of Business from May 17-20 for the 2015 SFS (Society of Financial Studies) Finance Cavalcade. Read more April 01, 2015 Professor Vinod Singhal Elected POMS Fellow Vinod Singhal, who holds the Dunn Family Professorship in Operations Management at Georgia Tech Scheller College of Business, was recently elected a fellow of the Production and Operations Management Society (POMS). Read more March 14, 2015 Scheller College Honors Excellent Faculty, Students and Staff Georgia Tech Scheller College of Business honored faculty, students, and staff who exemplify excellence on March 12 at the College of Management's Seventh Annual Honors Day. Read more March 12, 2015 Technology to Monitor Diabetes in Pets Wins 2015 Startup Competition A team with technology that could help monitor the condition of cats and dogs with diabetes won Georgia Tech’s 2015 Startup Competition ($15,000, plus the Edison Prize: a $15,000 convertible note). Read more March 07, 2015 Glenn Lurie, President and CEO, AT&T Mobility to Speak to Scheller EMBA Students The Scheller College of Business Executive MBA (EMBA) program will host guest speaker Glenn Lurie on March 14. Mr. Lurie will speak to the class from 12:30 - 1:30 p.m. in room 300. Read more March 04, 2015 Scheller College Hosts Semifinals of Global Social Venture Competition For the second consecutive year, Georgia Tech Scheller College of Business served as host of the semifinal round (for the Eastern U.S. Region) of the Global Social Venture Competition. Read more January 22, 2015 Georgia Tech Researcher: Increasing Financial Leverage Could Benefit Companies Many profitable, publicly traded corporations may be leaving money on the table by not issuing more debt, increasing their financial leverage, according to Andras Danis, an assistant professor of finance at Georgia Tech Scheller College of Business. Read more November 26, 2014 Faculty Profile: Accounting Professor Mulford Refines Art of Synergy If you want to know how accounting professor Charles Mulford has time to accomplish all that he does in a day, he’ll sum it up for you in one word: synergy. Read more October 30, 2014 PhD Alumni Profile: Watson-Manheim Explores Workplace Changes Enabled by Communications Technology Everywhere you go, people are focused on their cell phones: talking, texting, answering email and checking social media — and much of this activity is job related. In an age when it's possible to be engaged electronically with the world all the time, it's worth considering, How are computing technologies changing the way we work? Read more October 29, 2014 Faculty Profile: Jennifer Carson Marr Studies Career Setbacks and Comebacks Jennifer Carson Marr admits that she had a naive view of what it takes to make it to the top in the corporate world when she first began her career. Read more October 09, 2014 Scheller Ranked 8th in Corporate Knights’ Global 100 Sustainable MBA Programs Georgia Tech Scheller College of Business is ranked 8th in Corporate Knights magazine’s Global 100 Sustainable MBA rankings for our success at integrating sustainability into the school experience. Read more June 20, 2014 Professor Rothaermel Named Among Most Influential Business Researchers Worldwide Georgia Tech Scheller College of Business Professor Frank Rothaermel was named among the top 96 faculty members worldwide in the category Economics and Business by Thomson Reuters. Read more May 15, 2014 Scheller Event Highlights Need for Partnerships to Create Sustainable Future During a recent panel discussion on sustainability at Georgia Tech Scheller College of Business, Novelis President and CEO Phil Martens recalled an alarming conversation he had with a climatologist a decade ago. They had discussed the repercussions if society didn’t reduce carbon emissions, ranging from the melting of polar ice caps and jet-stream shifts to the contamination of the air, soil, and water. Read more May 08, 2014 PhD Alumnus Profile: Doctorate Helped Brian Jacobs Navigate into New Career Brian Jacobs discovered that one of the advantages of being an older student is that you're a bit more concerned with learning the material than you are with grades. Plus, your studies are supported by a wealth of previous industry and work experience, and you're already used to spending long hours juggling several tasks at once. Read more May 06, 2014 PhD Profile: Lori Shefchik Studies Auditor Behavior When PhD candidate Lori Shefchik was in first grade, she thought she wanted to be teacher when she grew up – that is, until she found out you had to go to college. Read more April 09, 2014 Researchers Find Social Media Able to Predict Stock Returns Researchers from three prestigious schools - Georgia Tech Scheller College of Business, Purdue University, and City University of Hong Kong - have released what they believe is the first study proving the ability of social media to predict future stock returns and earnings surprises. Read more January 24, 2014 Georgia Tech PhD Students Win Top Awards from Academy of Management Two Georgia Tech PhD students won top paper honors from the Operations Management (OM) division of the Academy of Management, along with their collaborating faculty members. Read more November 19, 2013 PhD Alumnus Profile: Edmund Prater Makes Unexpected Career Change Edmund Prater, PhD 1999, knew it was time for a career change when the Russian mafia came calling. Read more October 05, 2013 PhD Profile: Zoey Chen Examines Word-of-Mouth Effects in Marketing As a foodie who enjoys trying new restaurants, Zoey Chen became fascinated with the consumer reviews posted on Websites such as Yelp. Reading them eventually inspired her to study factors (including immediacy) influencing the impact of online reviews. Read more October 01, 2013 Faculty Profile: Marco Ceccagnoli Focused on Drivers of Innovation The early days of European economic integration stimulated Marco Ceccagnoli’s interest in innovation. At the time, in the early 1990s, he was working on his master’s thesis at the University of Rome, theorizing on whether the formation of the European Union would have beneficial economic effects. Read more July 23, 2013 Faculty Profile: Sara Dommer Exploring How Brands Influence Personal Identity Sara Dommer doesn’t have to open her mother’s cupboard to tell you exactly what brands of spaghetti sauce and other products are housed inside. “She’s a big brand loyalist,” she explains. Read more June 28, 2013 Professor Slaughter Studies Massive Cyber Project That Could Transform Internet Four years ago, Sandra Slaughter began studying the project management of a huge National Science Foundation (NSF) initiative with an ambitious goal: the creation of a “new Internet” – one that is more secure, accessible, predictable and reliable than today’s World Wide Web. Read more June 26, 2013 Faculty Profile: Professor Christina Shalley Finding Keys to Creativity Summary text goes here and here and here and here and here and here and here. Read more June 26, 2013 Faculty Profile: Professor Lucien Dhooge Asks Tough Ethical Questions “When you do business overseas, are your ethics portable?,” asks Professor Lucien Dhooge. “Do they follow you to Russia or India, where bribery is often a standard business practice?” Read more May 08, 2013 Sustainability Center Receives Grant from Kendeda Fund Georgia Tech Scheller College of Business’ new Center on Business Strategies for Sustainability recently received a $300,000 grant from the Kendeda Fund. This follows a $750,000, three-year grant received earlier this year from the Ray C. Anderson Foundation to start the Center. Read more April 25, 2013 Scheller Faculty Widely Honored, Published Widely recognized for excellence in teaching and research, faculty members of Scheller College of Business continue to raise the business school's profile through their professional activities and honors. Read more April 19, 2013 Scheller College Honors Excellent Faculty, Students and Staff | 2013 Georgia Tech Scheller College of Business honored faculty, students, and staff who exemplify excellence on April 18 at the Fifth Annual Honors Day. Read more April 04, 2013 Faculty Profile: Beril Toktay a Pioneer in Sustainability Research As a young girl growing up in Turkey, Beril Toktay accepted water and air pollution as a fact of life. “It wasn’t until I went abroad that I saw how much better it could be,” says the professor of operations management and holder of the Brady Family Chair at Georgia Tech Scheller College of Business. Read more March 08, 2013 Manpreet Hora Wins Junior Faculty Teaching Excellence Award Manpreet Hora, assistant professor of operations management, has won Georgia Tech's 2013 CETL/BP Junior Faculty Teaching Excellence Award. Read more March 08, 2013 TI:GER Team GoNow Wins Business Plan Competition for Bladder Control Technology Technology that could help spinal-cord injury sufferers control their bladder by remote control won first place ($10,000) in the 2013 Georgia Tech Business Plan Competition. Read more February 19, 2013 Scheller College Wins Grant to Start Center on Business Strategies for Sustainability Georgia Tech Scheller College of Business is establishing the Center on Business Strategies for Sustainability, thanks to a three-year, $750,000 grant recently awarded by the Ray C. Anderson Foundation. Read more January 25, 2013 Georgia Tech New Partner of Global Social Venture Competition Georgia Tech is the newest partner of the Global Social Venture Competition, in which students throughout the country are eligible to compete. Participating teams must have a business plan that shows potential for financial return on investment in addition to social and/or environmental benefits. Read more January 07, 2013 Frank Rothaermel Ranked among World's Top Web-savvy Professors Frank Rothaermel, professor of strategic management at Georgia Tech Scheller College of Business, was recently named among the world's Top 100 Web-savvy Professors by BestOnlineUniversities. Read more December 12, 2012 All-Star Scientists: Study Examines Role of “Helpful” Scientists in the Success of Others Researchers are typically judged by their ability to frequently publish papers in high-impact journals that are subsequently cited by other studies. This measure of productivity encapsulates an individual's output that is personally beneficial. Read more December 06, 2012 Marketing Professor Offers Helpful Hints for Healthy Holiday Eating If you’re counting calories or looking to stay trim during the holidays, consider using the research findings of Koert van Ittersum, associate professor of marketing in Georgia Tech’s Scheller College of Business. He’s conducted several studies validating techniques that could help you eat less throughout the holiday season when you’re barraged by a seemingly endless parade of treats. Read more December 06, 2012 Professor Explains Growing Role of E-Commerce in Holiday Shopping As consumers shop for the holidays, e-commerce will continue to play a key role, says Yu Jeffrey Hu, associate professor of information technology management at Georgia Tech's Scheller College of Business. Blurred boundaries between online and offline shopping will give consumers more choices, more savings, and better shopping experience, he adds. Read more December 06, 2012 Three Accounting Professors Recognized among Most Prolific for Publication Activity Three accounting professors in Georgia Tech's Scheller College of Business were recently ranked in the top 10 for publication activity among peers who earned their doctorates in the same years as they did. Read more October 23, 2012 Professor Toktay Named Holder of Brady Family Chair Georgia Tech Scheller College of Business has named Beril Toktay, professor of operations management, as holder of the Brady Family Chair. "Beril is a preeminent scholar in the field of sustainable operations management," says Dean Steve Salbu. Read more October 11, 2012 Annual Williams Lecture Oct. 24 to Feature McKinsey's Vivian Hunt Discussing Healthcare Challenges Georgia Tech Scheller College of Business' fourth annual Thomas R. Williams Distinguished Lecture on February 16 will feature Vivian Hunt, a director of McKinsey & Company, discussing private and public healthcare in the United States and beyond. Read more October 08, 2012 Georgia Tech Business Network Hosting All-star Panel on Entrepreneurship If you're thinking about starting a business or looking to drive innovation within a larger organization, consider attending an all-star panel discussion of investors and entrepreneurs at 6:30 p.m. Thurs. Oct. 11 at Scheller College of Business (LeCraw Auditorium). Read more September 08, 2012 Music, Lighting Change Eating Patterns in Fast Food Restaurant A new study from Georgia Tech and Cornell University shows that softer lighting and relaxing ambient music in a fast food restaurant affects the eating patterns of customers. The report shows that customers in fancier dining areas will eat up to 18 percent fewer calories than those in typical restaurant conditions. Read more August 23, 2012 Professor Proposes Steps to Creating More Diverse Boards of Directors In today's globally competitive marketplaces, businesses are looking for any and every advantage over their competitors. According to Georgia Tech Scheller College of Business Professor Seletha Butler's article, "All on Board! Strategies for Constructing Diverse Board of Directors," published recently in the Virginia Law & Business Review, the board of directors of companies should be more inclusive, reflecting "the demographics and composition of the global marketplace that the companies serve." Read more August 15, 2012 Phd Success Story: Sam Ransbotham After earning two degrees from Georgia Tech, Sam Ransbotham considered pursuing his PhD in information technology management from a different institution for the sake of variety. Read more August 14, 2012 Professor Breznitz's Book on China Wins Top Honor Danny Breznitz, associate professor of international affairs and strategic management at the Scheller College of Business, recently won the British International Studies Association's Susan Strange Best Book Award for 2012. Read more August 10, 2012 Marie Thursby Named Regents' Professor Georgia Tech has named Marie Thursby of the Scheller College of Business a Regents' Professor. Read more April 24, 2012 College of Management Faculty, Staff Receive Numerous Honors | 2012 Widely recognized for excellence in teaching and research, faculty members of Georgia Tech College of Management continue to raise the business school's profile through their professional activities and honors. Staff accomplishments have also reflected well on the College. Read more April 23, 2012 PhD Profile: Wen Wen Lands Academic Position at Top University As Wen Wen explored PhD programs, she knew she wanted a supportive environment that would hone both her research and teaching abilities. Georgia Tech College of Management proved to be the ideal academic location for this native of Chengdu, China. Read more April 20, 2012 College of Management Honors Excellent Faculty, Students and Staff | 2012 Georgia Tech College of Management honored faculty, students, and staff who exemplify excellence on April 19 at the College of Management's Fourth Annual Honors Day. Read more March 30, 2012 Dare to Care: Learn about Business Concepts for Improving World in I2S Competition Interested in innovative business concepts that could help improve society or preserve the environment? Then you're welcome to attend the poster showcase and reception of the fourth annual Ideas to SERVE (I2S) Competition at 6 p.m. Monday April 2 in the atrium of Georgia Tech College of Management. Read more March 12, 2012 MAID Takes Top Business Plan Competition Awards for Breathing Tube Technology For the first time in the 12-year history of the Georgia Tech Business Plan Competition (BPC), a team of undergraduates placed first, winning for its strategy to market a revolutionary type of breathing tube. Read more February 24, 2012 See Teams Compete in Specialty Categories at the Business Plan Competition Reception March 1 Thirty-eight teams will present their business concepts on Thursday, March 1 during the Georgia Tech Business Plan Competition Reception. Read more February 03, 2012 Steve Salbu Commits to a Second Term as Dean Steve Salbu, who joined Georgia Tech College of Management in 2006, has committed to a second term as dean. Read more November 22, 2011 Study: Vivid Language in Reports Affects Investor Judgments In recent years, regulators have raised concerns that vivid language used by media and others in the financial community can inflate stock market bubbles and induce panics. Georgia Tech researchers have shown that such language can indeed influence investor behavior in the study “Who Believes the Hype: An Experimental Examination of How Language Affects Investor Judgments.” Read more November 09, 2011 Late Professor Skip Beebe Leaves Impressive Legacy in Real Estate Field M.J. "Skip" Beebe, an alumnus of and professor at Georgia Tech College of Management, died unexpectedly on Monday, November 7. Read more August 26, 2011 Technology in Entertainment Panel on Sept. 1 to Feature Ludacris Rapper/actor Christopher "Ludacris" Bridges will moderate a panel discussion on "Technology in Entertainment" on Thurs. Sept. 1 at Georgia Tech College of Management. Read more July 22, 2011 Former Head of Cancer Coalition to Join College Faculty Bill Todd, president and CEO of the Georgia Cancer Coalition since 2003, will join the faculty of Georgia Tech College of Management. Read more June 01, 2010 PhD Success Story: Jill Perry-Smith While the importance of creativity to business is widely recognized, many organizational processes actually stifle it, says Jill Perry-Smith, PhD 2002. Much of her research has focused on how companies can create environments that are conducive to creativity. Read more September 01, 2009 PhD Success Story: Janice Carrillo When Janice Carrillo began her master's studies at Georgia Tech College of Management in 1990, she had no idea she'd one day be teaching business classes herself. Read more September 01, 2009 Phd Success Story: Michael Ehrhardt When Michael Ehrhardt was in ninth grade, testing revealed that he was best suited for a career in animal husbandry. Fortunately, college professor wasn't far behind livestock breeding on his list of likely occupations. Read more March 01, 2009 Phd Success Story: Drew Hess Drew Hess believes his endless curiosity, which he considers crucial for any PhD student, was stifled during his five-year career in the rigid world of banking. Read more More Scheller College of Business Home Why Scheller? Overview & History Business at Tech Georgia Tech Community Career and Recruiter Services Giving to the College Alumni Network Visit Campus Tech Square and Atlanta Programs MBA Undergraduate PhD Interdisciplinary M.S. Executive Education Lean Six Sigma Certification Custom Programs Academics Accounting Finance Information Technology Management Law & Ethics Marketing Operations Management Organizational Behavior Strategy & Innovation Student Certificates Academic Speaker Series Current Faculty Opportunities Centers & Initiatives Business Analytics Center Cecil B. Day Program for Business Ethics Center for International Business Education and Research Financial Analysis Lab Institute for Leadership and Social Impact Program for Engineering Entrepreneurship Ray C. Anderson Center for Sustainable Business Steven A. Denning Technology & Management Program TI:GER® and CDL-Atlanta News & Events Scheller News Event Calendar The Intersection Podcast Media Inquiry Marketing Innovation Conference @ Scheller LinkedIn Instagram Facebook Twitter Youtube Flickr Georgia Institute of Technology Scheller College of Business 800 W. Peachtree St. NW Atlanta, GA 30308 404.894.2600 © 2022 Georgia Institute of Technology Intranet Emergency Information Contact the College Privacy & Legal Notice Accountability Web Accessibility Resources for People with Disabilities Plugins Youtube Usage Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Hazing Public Disclosures