Skip to main content Toggle Tools navigation Toggle Site Navigation Toggle Search University of Cincinnati UC Home Support UC Directories UC Tools Canopy & Blackboard Catalyst OneStop Student Email Faculty / Staff Email Shuttle Tracker UCFileSpace UC Flex/ESS IT Help UC VPN Concur Success Factors Enter a search term to search UC pages or the directory. Search String University of Cincinnati Students Contact your Advisor Advising Resources and Tools Transfer Credit Home Overview and Checklist Types of Transfer Credit Transfer Equivalency Database Credit Evaluation Forms Transfer Articulation Agreements Accreditation for Transfer Credit COVID-19 FAQs for Credit Evaluation College Credit Plus Home CCP Admission Requirements Apply to CCP Academic Advising Textbooks & Supplies High School Partnerships FAQ Contact 15 to Finish Students FAQ Resources For Advisors UC Advising Conference About Organization Advising Strategic Plan Assessment Home CCP Admission Requirements Apply to CCP Academic Advising Textbooks & Supplies High School Partnerships FAQ Contact Home College Credit Plus Academic Advising College Credit Plus Academic Advising What is CCP Academic Advising? What Courses Can I Take Under CCP? Risks and Benefits of CCP College Course Expectations Schedule an Appointment with a CCP Academic Advisor What is CCP Academic Advising? The office of College Credit Plus (CCP) at the University of Cincinnati values the importance of academic advising and recognizes the positive impact that it has for our CCP students. Effective advising will allow for students to make more informed and better choices concerning their academic goals. By working together, we will explore the expectations, risks, and benefits of the program, review the services and policies of the University, discuss educational plans, and make appropriate course selections. Academic advising is available to all admitted CCP students taking courses at a partnered high school, on a UC campus, or online with a UC faculty mentor. Participating in the CCP program is an important decision in pursuing collegiate academic opportunities as a high school student, and we feel that proper academic advising will be helpful in that navigation. ►Return to Top What Courses Can I Take Under CCP? Visit the Course Eligibility page to learn what courses you can take under CCP, and how to search and register for them. ►Return to Top Risks and Benefits of CCP Risks Course transfer depends on your major or where you want to go for college. Grades will be on the student's college record (official UC transcript), and will affect college GPA. There may be financial repercussions if you do not complete the course successfully. The student's high school calendar may not align with the college calendar. May negatively impact the student's college career if unsuccessful in courses. Benefits Students earn transcripted college credits based off cumulative grades in class. Students have a chance to explore various fields of study. Taking courses now may eliminate repeating coursework in college. May lower the overall cost of college or shorten the time to complete your degree. ►Return to Top College Course Expectations Faster paced courses. It is important for students not only to review their classwork, but to prepare for future lessons by completing assigned readings and staying on top of homework. More study time is required. Students should expect to spend 2-3 hours a week, per credit hour enrolled, outside of the classroom to prepare for class, read textbooks/materials, review notes and group work, write assignments, and study for tests/exams, etc. Need for proactivity. Students, not parents and counselors, are responsible for communicating with their professors via office hours and/or by email if they have questions or concerns regarding their progress in class. ►Return to Top Schedule An Appointment With a CCP Academic Advisor Please note: Advising appointments are for current UC CCP students only! Appointments may be scheduled through My Bearcat Network. Gianna Johnson Academic Advisor gianna.johnson@uc.edu (513) 556-7677 Casey O'Neill Academic Advisor oneillcy@ucmail.uc.edu (513) 556-7673 Jack O'Toole Academic Advisor otoolejk@ucmail.uc.edu (513) 556-3564 More Information about CCP Ohio Department of Higher Education Ohio Department of Education ►Return to Top Office of Advising & Academic Services 2618 McMicken Circle University Pavilion Cincinnati, OH 45221-0202 Alerts Clery and HEOA Notice Notice of Non-Discrimination eAccessibility Concern Privacy Statement Copyright Information © 2018 University of Cincinnati This website offers many PDF files for download, which require Adobe Reader to view.