Skip Top Navigation null More details Admissions Outcomes The Student Experience Financial Aid Degree Finder Academics Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Research, Scholarship & Creativity Centers & Institutes Geisel School of Medicine Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Thayer School of Engineering Tuck School of Business Campus Life Events Diversity & Inclusion Athletics & Recreation Student Groups & Activities Residential Life More About News Giving News Media Search Dartmouth College Explore Dartmouth Osher Lifelong Learning Institute Twitter Youtube Facebook Flickr (603) 646-0154osher@dartmouth.eduMail Home Menu About About the Institute Directions & Parking By-Laws Member Survey Classrooms Staff Join Osher Serve on a Committee Policies COVID-19 Campion Award Study Leaders Teach a Course Submit a Course Proposal Study Leader Digital Handbook Meet Our Study Leaders Courses Log In to Register Course Information Spring Term 2022 Fall Term 2022 Winter Term 2023 Class Monitor Meet Our Study Leaders Daily Calendar Feedback Form Programming Special Interest Groups Movies Summer Lecture Series Past Lecture Series Literary Night Annual Meeting Trainings Giving Donate to Osher List of Donors Login SearchClose Search Search Annual Meeting Join us on Tuesday, June 28 at Quechee Inn at Marshland Farms to celebrate another year of Osher. We'll begin the day socializing before sitting down to lunch and while hearing from David Kotz, Provost, Dartmouth College. Learn more. The Restoration of a Sugar Hill Perennial Garden This course will document the restoration of a garden in the White Mountains of NH. It also covers propagation by division and demonstrates the importance of careful planning of design. Learn more. Have You Checked Your Personality Lately? Are you the same person you think you are? Are you the same person everyone else thinks you are? You will receive advance links to a version of the Myers-Briggs and Enneagram Personality Tests which you are encouraged to complete prior to the class. We will explore these two in some depth and poll the class to see the range of personas indicated. Learn more. Summer Lecture Series: Addressing the Challenges to Our Democracy As the United States lurched toward the Civil War, we were confronted with many of the issues that once again rear their heads today: a country hopelessly polarized; newspapers filled with untruths; the Electoral College giving extra power to small, rural states; and possibly most significant, the reverberations of “America’s Original Sin”, slavery, making racial inequality an issue that we have to contend with to this very day. Learn more. Submit a course proposal Submit a course proposal today! Please email us with any questions. Winter 2023 proposals due: September 12, 2022 Dates for term: January 9 - March 17, 2023 Spring 2023 proposals due: December 12, 2022 Dates for term: April 3 - June 16, 2023 Summer lecture Series: Addressing the Challenges to Our Democracy Osher’s 25th Summer Lecture Series returns in-person to Spaulding Auditorium (as well as livestream) to ask the question: Which Way Forward for Democracy? Learn more. meet our study leaders Our courses are led by dedicated volunteers who have passion for and knowledge of a subject and want to share that passion with others. Without our dedicated instructors, Osher at Dartmouth would not exist. Learn more about our Study Leaders. STUDY LEADER RESOURCES View the resources for leading a course online. MEMBER RESOURCES Training: How to Use Zoom Training: How to Register for a Course COMPLETE A FEEDBACK FORM Provides direct feedback to the Study Leader(s) about how the course went for you. It helps the Curriculum Committee and our office assist future terms. Gives you a voice about your experience. OSHER CALENDAR A full listing of Osher courses and events by day; updated frequently. Weekly Newsletter Subscribe Quicklinks Directions Take a Virtual Tour Meet the Staff Meet Our Study Leaders Connect With Us YouTube Facebook Register Review Us Last Updated Close Close People Program Manager Lisa King lisa.l.king@dartmouth.edu Find Us Address One Court Street, Suite 380 Lebanon, NH 03766 Check out the Campus Map. Talk to Us Phone: (603) 646-0154 HB: 6022 Email: osher@dartmouth.edu More Contact InformationClose Contact Us My Dartmouth Students Faculty Staff Alumni Families Find it Fast A-Z Index Campus Map Directory Events News Visit Resources Dartmouth at a Glance Accessibility Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Careers Sexual Respect & Title IX Connect With Us Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College • Privacy • Policies • Contact • Site or Accessibility Feedback Dartmouth College Osher Lifelong Learning Institute About Study Leaders Courses Programming Giving Back About the Institute Staff Join Osher Serve on a Committee Policies Campion Award Back Teach a Course Study Leader Digital Handbook Meet Our Study Leaders Back Log In to Register Course Information Class Monitor Meet Our Study Leaders Daily Calendar Feedback Form Back Special Interest Groups Movies Summer Lecture Series Literary Night Annual Meeting Trainings Back Donate to Osher List of Donors Back Directions & Parking By-Laws Member Survey Classrooms Back COVID-19 Back Submit a Course Proposal Back Spring Term 2022 Fall Term 2022 Winter Term 2023 Back Past Lecture Series Last Updated: May 16, 2022