Skip to content Columbia University Irving Medical Center Find People Events Faculty and Staff Resources Give Now Search About Us About Us Facts and Figures Explore CUIMC Events Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion at CUIMC Community Development and Alumni Explore CUIMC Leadership and Administration A-Z Listing Affiliated Hospitals Campus Map and Directions Campus Resources Contact CUIMC Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion At CUIMC, we are committed to continuous improvement in providing culturally inclusive medical education and clinical care. Learn About Our Commitment Education Education Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons Mailman School of Public Health School of Nursing College of Dental Medicine VP&S Columbia Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons is dedicated to developing the next generation of leaders in medicine Learn About Our Academic Programs Research Research The Louisa Gross Horwitz Prize Columbia Technology Ventures Research Administration Columbia Clinical Innovation Lab Patient Care Patient Care ColumbiaDoctors Children's Health Columbia Primary Care Herbert Irving Comprehensive Cancer Center ColumbiaDoctors Dentistry Digital Health Services at Columbia Find a Doctor Search for a provider by specialty, expertise, location and insurance. Schedule an appointment online. Find a Doctor News News For the Media Share Your News CUIMC Update CUIMC Celebrates Columbia Medicine Read the latest news stories about CUIMC faculty, research, and events Explore Our News COVID-19 Resources for CUIMC COVID-19 Resources for CUIMC COVID-19 Information for Patients COVID-19 Campus Safety for Employees and Students COVID-19 Vaccine Information For CUIMC Employees and Students COVID-19 Information and Resources for Clinical Staff COVID-19 Vaccine Information Learn about COVID-19 vaccine availability and requirements for employees and students at CUIMC Get the Latest Information Columbia Vaccinates Hundreds at Community Pop-Up Vaccination Site in Harlem May 4, 2021 Share this page Share on Facebook Tweet Share on Linkedin Share by email Volunteers at Columbia University Community Wellness Center's first pop-up COVID-19 vaccination event. Photo: Michael DiVito. Hundreds of New Yorkers from Harlem, Northern Manhattan, and Morningside Heights were vaccinated in Manhattanville over four weekends since early April at a Columbia Community Pop-up Vaccination Site organized by Columbia University’s Community Wellness Center and ColumbiaDoctors. The events over the four weekends vaccinated 700 New Yorkers. In New York City, Black and Latino residents are getting vaccinated at much lower rates than other groups. According to recent statistics from New York City's health department, 24% of Blacks and 28% of Latinos have received one shot, compared with 41% of whites and 56% of Asians. The vaccination effort is being led by doctors from the Columbia Community Wellness Center, located in the Jerome L. Greene Science Center on Columbia's Manhattanville campus, and Columbia University Irving Medical Center’s Office of Community Service Programs. The pop-up site was made possible through partnerships between Columbia University and multiple public and private health care providers. The Wellness Center at Columbia University is led by Olajide Williams, MD, professor and chief of staff of neurology, and Sidney Hankerson, MD, assistant professor of psychiatry, physicians at Columbia University Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons known for their pioneering approaches to improving public health in Harlem and Washington Heights. References Columbia Community Wellness Center is located on the ground floor of the Jerome L. Greene Science Center and provides health resources to area residents. ColumbiaDoctors host community-based initiatives that train members of the Harlem community to become health advocates to prevent stroke and promote mental health. The center also provides free cholesterol and blood pressure screenings, health insurance enrollment, weight counseling, and other services. Columbia University Irving Medical Center NewYork-Presbyterian About Us Careers News Education Patient Care Research Resources at CUIMC Columbia University Irving Medical Center 630 West 168th Street New York, NY 10032 United States Follow Us Facebook Twitter YouTube LinkedIn Instagram Back to top