Skip to content Clemson University Clemson University Search Menu Close Sorry, your browser does not support inline SVG. Sorry, your browser does not support inline SVG. Apply Giving News Resources for Students Faculty & Staff Parents Alumni Clemson University Academics Forward Arrow Back Arrow Back Academics Home Employment Opportunities Apply for Admission Colleges College of Agriculture, Forestry and Life Sciences College of Architecture, Arts and Humanities College of Behavioral, Social and Health Sciences Wilbur O. and Ann Powers College of Business College of Education College of Engineering, Computing and Applied Sciences College of Science Graduate School Academic Resources Academic Calendar Registrar Division of Undergraduate Studies Center for Career and Professional Development Academic Success Center GRAD 360° Libraries Outside the Classroom PEER/WISE Call Me MISTER® Creative Inquiry and Undergraduate Research Cooperative Education University Professional Internship and Co-op Program (UPIC) Study Abroad Admissions Forward Arrow Back Arrow Back Admissions Home Schedule a Tour Apply for Admission Applying to Clemson First-Year Undergraduate Transfer Undergraduate International Undergraduate Graduate Students Academic Opportunities Majors Graduate Programs Online Graduate Programs Scholar Programs Paths to Graduate School Honors College Experiential Learning Financial Aid Tuition and Fee Calculator Undergraduate Financial Aid Graduate Fellowships and Awards Residency Requirements Campus Life Forward Arrow Back Arrow Back Campus Life Home Club Sports Brooks Center for the Performing Arts Join Your Clemson Family Finding Your Community Living-Learning Communities Student Veterans Multicultural Programs FIRST Army ROTC Air Force ROTC Services On Campus Housing & Dining Campus Recreation Parking and Transportation Student Health Services TigerOne Card Services Clemson Athletics Get Involved Clubs and Organizations Fraternity and Sorority Life Orientation Ambassadors Tiger Media Graduate Student Government Undergraduate Student Government Research Forward Arrow Back Arrow Back Research Home Clemson University Research Foundation (CURF) Division of Research Research Opportunities Student Research at Clemson Creative Inquiry Research Facilities Postdoctoral Affairs Serving South Carolina Through Research School of Health Research Public Service and Agriculture Clemson Experimental Forest Clemson Extension Clemson Research and Education Centers Public Service and Agriculture Research Farm Services Innovation and Economic Development Corporate Partnerships and Strategic Initiatives Clemson University International Center for Automotive Research (CU-ICAR) Clemson University Restoration Institute (CURI) Clemson University Biomedical Engineering Innovation Campus (CUBEInC) Center for Human Genetics Innovation Campus and Technology Park About Clemson Forward Arrow Back Arrow Back About Clemson Home Clemson News Clemson Athletics For Tigers Applying to Clemson Working at Clemson Traditions Military Heritage Things To Do in Clemson Visit Clemson Campus Resources Employment Opportunities Home and Garden Information Center Brand Guidelines CCIT Academic Calendar Training ClemsonForward Campus Leadership Board of Trustees President Academic Affairs and Provost Inclusion and Equity Student Affairs Faculty Senate Staff Senate Search Resources for Current Students Parents Faculty & Staff Alumni Thomas F. Chapman Leadership Scholars Program About Program Description Chapman Leadership Scholars Forward Arrow Chapman Leadership Scholars Scholars Spotlights Scholar Accomplishments Back Arrow Back Meet the Staff Where are they now? News & Events Apply Giving News Sikes Hall Icon Main Menu Forward Arrow Icon Back Arrow Icon Back Clemson University Academics Academics Home Employment Opportunities Apply for Admission Colleges College of Agriculture, Forestry and Life Sciences College of Architecture, Arts and Humanities College of Behavioral, Social and Health Sciences Wilbur O. and Ann Powers College of Business College of Education College of Engineering, Computing and Applied Sciences College of Science Graduate School Academic Resources Academic Calendar Registrar Division of Undergraduate Studies Center for Career and Professional Development Academic Success Center GRAD 360° Libraries Outside the Classroom PEER/WISE Call Me MISTER® Creative Inquiry and Undergraduate Research Cooperative Education University Professional Internship and Co-op Program (UPIC) Study Abroad Admissions Admissions Home Schedule a Tour Apply for Admission Applying to Clemson First-Year Undergraduate Transfer Undergraduate International Undergraduate Graduate Students Academic Opportunities Majors Graduate Programs Online Graduate Programs Scholar Programs Paths to Graduate School Honors College Experiential Learning Financial Aid Tuition and Fee Calculator Undergraduate Financial Aid Graduate Fellowships and Awards Residency Requirements Campus Life Campus Life Home Club Sports Brooks Center for the Performing Arts Join Your Clemson Family Finding Your Community Living-Learning Communities Student Veterans Multicultural Programs FIRST Army ROTC Air Force ROTC Services On Campus Housing & Dining Campus Recreation Parking and Transportation Student Health Services TigerOne Card Services Clemson Athletics Get Involved Clubs and Organizations Fraternity and Sorority Life Orientation Ambassadors Tiger Media Graduate Student Government Undergraduate Student Government Research Research Home Clemson University Research Foundation (CURF) Division of Research Research Opportunities Student Research at Clemson Creative Inquiry Research Facilities Postdoctoral Affairs Serving South Carolina Through Research School of Health Research Public Service and Agriculture Clemson Experimental Forest Clemson Extension Clemson Research and Education Centers Public Service and Agriculture Research Farm Services Innovation and Economic Development Corporate Partnerships and Strategic Initiatives Clemson University International Center for Automotive Research (CU-ICAR) Clemson University Restoration Institute (CURI) Clemson University Biomedical Engineering Innovation Campus (CUBEInC) Center for Human Genetics Innovation Campus and Technology Park About Clemson About Clemson Home Clemson News Clemson Athletics For Tigers Applying to Clemson Working at Clemson Traditions Military Heritage Things To Do in Clemson Visit Clemson Campus Resources Employment Opportunities Home and Garden Information Center Brand Guidelines CCIT Academic Calendar Training ClemsonForward Campus Leadership Board of Trustees President Academic Affairs and Provost Inclusion and Equity Student Affairs Faculty Senate Staff Senate Search close Thomas F. Chapman Leadership Scholars About Program Description Chapman Leadership Scholars show submenu for Chapman Leadership Scholars Scholars Spotlights Scholar Accomplishments Meet the Staff Where are they now? News & Events Clemson Home Wilbur O. and Ann Powers College of Business Current: Thomas F. Chapman Leadership Scholars Program Thomas F. Chapman Leadership Scholars The Thomas F. Chapman Leadership Scholars Program selects freshmen at Clemson University who show leadership potential and nurtures those qualities throughout their Clemson career. The program is designed to enrich students' academic preparation beyond the classroom and curriculum and support the college's mission to develop leadership abilities in its students. The program is based, in part, on a leadership theme developed by former Equifax CEO and board chairman, Thomas F. Chapman ’65, that uses the analogy of The Wizard of Oz characters — the scarecrow, lion and tin man — to communicate the traits of leadership. Those students whose applications are deemed the most outstanding are then further screened through an interview process with the review panel to select 8 Wilbur O. and Ann Powers College of Business students and one student from each additional College on campus, 14 students total, who will begin the program. Chapman Leadership Scholars have the potential to receive a total of $6,000 over three years. Contact Us: Charleen Fitzgerald 864-656-1312 cdtimme@clemson.edu About Thomas F. Chapman Thomas (Tom) F. Chapman is an accomplished business and civic leader. Until his retirement in 2005, he served as Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Equifax Inc. Chapman also served on the boards of Southern Company and Certegy. He holds a bachelor's degree in economics from Clemson and is also a graduate of the Advanced Management Program at Harvard University's Graduate School of Business. At Clemson, Chapman was a two-time All-Atlantic Coast Conference Pitcher and a member of Tiger Brotherhood and the Block C Club. Upon graduation, Chapman played professional baseball in the Philadelphia Phillies organization, until April 1968, when his Army Reserve unit was activated and deployed to Vietnam, where he served with distinction. Over the past four decades, Chapman has served as both a business and community leader. For Clemson University, he created the Thomas F. Chapman Leadership Scholars Program in the College of Business and Behavioral Science. As the inaugural Academic Cornerstone Partner in 2017, Tom and Karen expanded the leadership program university-wide, making the program available for more outstanding students. He also funded the construction of the Thomas F. Chapman Grandstands at Clemson's baseball stadium. In 2010, the Clemson Alumni Association recognized Chapman with the Distinguished Service Award, its highest honor. He has served his alma mater in various capacities including two terms on the board of directors of the Clemson University Foundation, the President's Advisory Board and the Athletics Advisory Committee. In 2016, Chapman received the Clemson University Bond Distinguished Athletes Award, created to honor Tiger athletes who have shown great character and become outstanding citizens in their life after Clemson. The Chapmans are distinguished members of the Thomas Green Clemson Society and the Century Oak Society. They are also Founding members of President James F. Barker and Mrs. Marcia D. Barker Scholarship Endowment and the President's Leadership Circle. Beyond Clemson, he is active in cancer prevention, detection and care initiatives at Piedmont Hospital in Atlanta, Georgia, establishing the Thomas F. Chapman Family Cancer Wellness Centers across the Piedmont system in Georgia. Chapman is also involved with Georgia CORE, the Center for Oncology Research and Education. Additionally, he is passionate about helping children with autism through his involvement with the Marcus Autism Center creating the Tom and Karen Chapman Care Coordination Center and supporting the Ronald McDonald House in Atlanta. Chapman received the 2014 Georgia Philanthropist of the Year Award. Tom and his wife Karen reside in Atlanta, Georgia. Constance Henderson, Portfolio Management Officer II at Bank of America Connie Henderson, Class of 2014, recognized as Top 30 under 30 Future Leaders of Charlotte - Find out more! Student Testimonial Peyton Marion Marketing Major Chester, South Carolina Wilbur O. and Ann Powers College of Business Copyright © Clemson University Wilbur O. and Ann Powers College of Business | 343 Chandler L. Burns Hall, Clemson, S.C. 29634 864-656-3177 | Email Us | Website Updates intro-arrow Engage With Us Through Facebook Instagram Twitter LinkedIn YouTube Flickr Clemson University Facebook Instagram Twitter Linkedin Youtube Tiktok Policy/Terms of Use Web Accessibility Ethics/Safety Hotline Privacy Policy Copyright © 2022 Clemson University • Clemson, South Carolina 29634 Clemson University Facebook Instagram Twitter Linkedin Youtube Tiktok Resources A-Z Index Campus Map CU Safety Directory Webcams Apply to Clemson