By continuing to use this site, you agree to the use of cookies in accordance with our privacy policy. Dismiss Stay Safe The official source of public health information for Syracuse University. Skip to Content Open menu About Admissions Academics Life Athletics More Search the University Open search Popular searches Close menu Home About Toggle dropdown Leadership Vision & Mission Consumer Information Facts & Figures Plan Your Visit Campus Map History News Partnerships Work at Syracuse Social Media Bookstore Brand Help & Contacts Admissions Toggle dropdown Undergraduate Graduate Online Part-Time Cost & Aid Request Information Visit & Tour Apply Academics Toggle dropdown Schools & Colleges Undergraduate Majors & Minors Graduate Degrees Online Programs Syracuse University Global Study Abroad Opportunities & Support Calendars Departments Research Centers & Institutes Libraries, Collections & Galleries Academic Administration Life Toggle dropdown Accessibility & Diversity Campus Highlights Events Calendar Services & Support Meals & Dining Housing Groups & Activities Recreation & Facilities For Students For Veterans & Military For Faculty & Staff For Parents & Families A-Z Index Sitemap Login Athletics Men’s Sports Toggle dropdown Basketball Cross Country Football Lacrosse Rowing Soccer Track and Field Women’s Sports Toggle dropdown Basketball Cross Country Field Hockey Ice Hockey Lacrosse Rowing Soccer Softball Tennis Track and Field Volleyball Athletics Dept. Toggle dropdown Facilities Staff Directory Academic Honors Community Service Spirit Program Varsity Club Sports Medicine Championships Fan Zone Toggle dropdown Dome Schedule Seating Information Orange All Access Otto’s Kids Club Game Photos Promotions Orange Club Schedules News Alumni About Toggle dropdown Notable Alumni Alumni Association Awards News Events and Clubs Toggle dropdown Orange Central Northeast Midwest South West World/Affinity Regions Toggle dropdown Atlanta Boston Chicago Los Angeles Middle East New York San Francisco Washington, DC Services Toggle dropdown Career Network Generation Orange Directory Profile Class Notes Giving Contact Contact Visit Apply Coronavirus Updates Forever Orange Home Life Campus Highlights In this Section The Stadium Connective Corridor Student-Run Media Hendricks Student Centers Performing Arts Campus Highlights With its mix of traditional and contemporary architecture, sprawling greens, and historic sculptures, Syracuse’s campus is more than just a place to live. It’s the backdrop for the stories you’ll tell over and over. It’s where you’ll make lifelong friends and life-changing decisions. At Syracuse University, four seasons provide an ever-changing stage for year-round festivals, expos and installations, and athletic events that unite the student body in an unstoppable wave of orange. Our campus is big enough to lose yourself in your interests, but small enough that you'll soon feel at home. Here you’ll learn a little more about some of our favorite places on campus, but planning a visit is the best way to get a feel for a place that will soon feel like home. Student Centers Link The Schine and Goldstein student centers are the go-to places for student activities. The Schine Center is the hub for student life on North Campus, while Goldstein serves the South Campus community. Both locations feature accommodating spaces, services and offerings where students can relax, study, meet and enjoy a variety of dining options. Stadium Link Raising your voice can also lift your spirits—especially at the stadium. Fueled by 20 NCAA Division 1 men's and women's athletic teams, we possess an undeniable spirit. The stadium is home to the Syracuse Orange football, basketball and lacrosse teams. It has also played host to some of the most memorable concerts, championships, and events in the region. In fact, more than eighteen million people have passed through its doors since the building’s first event. Hendricks Chapel Link As the heart of Syracuse University, Hendricks Chapel leads in service to our common good as a student-centered global home for religious, spiritual, moral and ethical life. Performing Arts Link Whether you're a performer or a fan, there are plenty of chances to enjoy music, theater, comedy, and dance on campus year-round. Museums and Galleries The Coalitions of Museum and Art Centers (CMAC) at Syracuse University showcases the University community’s talents by exploring the visual and electronic arts through exhibitions, publications, public presentations, education and scholarship. Campus Store The University's campus store is a primary resource for textbooks, course materials, general interest books, art and office supplies, and even a custom framing shop. But it's also home to a full Apple retailer (and plenty of PC resources), small grocery store a late-night market and grocery store, coffee bar, and plenty of apparel; all the essentials to make living here a little more like home. Connective Corridor The Connective Corridor is a civic engagement initiative led by Syracuse University, working with the City of Syracuse and Onondaga County. The Corridor creates a connection between the City and University, making it easier and more feasible for students to access many great downtown activities. Student-Run Media At Syracuse University, student-run media is more than just an opportunity for budding journalists to hone their craft. No one knows the ins and outs of the university like students, so no one is better positioned to share what’s happening, what’s now, and what’s next. Popular Toggle dropdown Academic Calendar Campus Map Careers Libraries Majors and Minors Visit and Tour A-Z Toggle dropdown Academic Departments Schools and Colleges Sitemap Search Contact Toggle dropdown Admissions Financial Aid Emergency Contacts Human Resources Make a Gift Login Toggle dropdown MySlice Blackboard SUMail Syracuse University 900 South Crouse Ave. Syracuse, NY 13244 Phone: +1.315.443.1870 Follow S.U. on Instagram Like S.U. on Facebook Follow S.U. on Twitter Follow S.U. on LinkedIn Follow S.U. on Tiktok Subscribe to S.U. on YouTube © Syracuse University. Knowledge crowns those who seek her. Accessibility Accreditation Emergencies Privacy