Skip to content Georgia Institute of Technology Institute for Information Security & Privacy | Georgia Tech Menu Close Home About About the IISP Quick Facts Awards & Distinctions Research About Our Research Research Labs Available Tools Faculty Seed Funding Education Overview School of Cybersecurity and Privacy Professional Education People Faculty Directory Executive Director Wenke Lee Deputy Director J. Sukarno Mertoguno Ph.D. Fellows Staff Events Annual Summit Cybersecurity Lecture Series Demo Day News Center Latest News Source Port Newsletter Threats Reports News Releases News Archive Partner For Faculty Contact Us Georgia Tech Home Campus Map Directory Offices Twitter Search Search form Enter your keywords We Are Moving! The Institute for Information Security & Privacy has joined the School of Cybersecurity and Privacy! In order to ensure we continue as a coordinating body for cybersecurity research, we are migrating our content to the School of Cybersecurity and Privacy website. We hope to see you there! This website will come down after the start of the new year. Cybersecurity at Georgia Tech Georgia Tech is creating the next cybersecurity solutions with immediate impact in the real world – working to strengthen national defense, ensure economic continuity, and protect individual freedom. Our aim is to anticipate, overcome, and continually resists emerging cyberthreats through expert insight, innovative breakthroughs, and cutting-edge curriculum. The Institute for Information Security & Privacy coordinates 13 labs and centers dedicated to solving the grand challenges of cybersecurity. School of Cybersecurity and Privacy The First of its Kind Among Top Research Universities Peter Swire Featured in Los Angeles Times Peter Swire, associate director for policy at the Georgia Tech Institute for Information Security and Privacy, featured in recent LA Times article. 2020 Georgia Tech Cybersecurity Summit The 2020 Cybersecurity Summit promises to be noteworthy and informative complete with the latest intelligence on cybersecurity. The summit will address emerging cybersecurity issues across a range of issues. Details and agenda coming soon. Georgia Tech Offers New Online Cyber Degree A new, online cybersecurity master’s degree -- with tuition under $10,000 -- is designed to help employers address a severe global workforce shortage. Jamil Farshchi, Equifax's Chief Information Security Officer, Speaks at Georgia Tech Jamil Farshchi was a recent speaker at the Weekly Friday Cybersecurity Lecture Series. He shared cybersecurity best practices and what Equifax has done to rebuild and reinforce itself since the breach. 2020 IISP Demo Day Click here to receive alerts and information for the latest details on Demo Day Mustaque Ahamad, Featured in Wall Street Journal Mustaque Ahamad, associate director of the IISP, and his Ph.D. student, Musheer Ahmed, developed an artificial intelligence healthcare platform to identify fraudulent medical claims. Alexandra Boldyreva wins award Professor Alexandra Boldyreva has won a Test of Time Award from the International Conference on Practice and Theory in Public Key Cryptography Home You are here: GT Home Ways to Engage: Education Research Commercialization Partnership Partner with Georgia Tech IISP The Institute for Information Security & Privacy (IISP) at Georgia Tech connects government, industry and academia to solve the grand challenges of cybersecurity. As a coordinating body for 12 labs and centers dedicated to academic and solution-oriented applied research, the IISP leverages intellectual capital from across Georgia Tech and external partners to address vital solutions for national defense, economic continuity, and individual freedom. Partner with the Institute for Information Security & Privacy to meet and hire Georgia Tech students, access emerging cybersecurity research, gain threat intelligence from research scientists and engineers, and consult with Georgia Tech faculty. The IISP Partnership Program helps organizations target specific challenges, stay at the forefront of research-based solutions, and shape a workforce pipeline that meets current and future needs. Georgia Tech's Cybersecurity Advantage Graduate and professional education Georgia Tech offers cybersecurity short courses and certificates -- taught by our researchers at your worksite or in Atlanta. Comprehensive Research Explore a problem, customize and harden components, or build a prototype with Georgia Tech faculty and researchers. State-of-the-art lab facilities Classified and unclassified research spaces offer a broad range of equipment platforms for informed security. Licensable I.P. Learn how to license Georgia Tech inventions, patents, software, and copyrightable materials. Join the IISP Partnership Program Get the insider track at Georgia Tech. Access first-hand insight from cybersecurity faculty, researchers and students to help close the innovation gap you face today. Learn what threats we see coming and partner with us to create the next solutions. For more information, please contact Gloria Griessman, Director of Commercialization and Industry Collaboration Gloria.Griessman@oic.gatech.edu News Georgia Tech in the News Research team develops 'Hidden Property Abusing', presenting at national security conference A team of researchers from Georgia Tech find a new attack technique. Read More News by Georgia Tech School of Computer Science Professor Wins Award for Influential Cryptography Research Professor Alexandra Boldyreva has won a Test of Time Award from the International Conference on Practice and Theory in Public Key Cryptography. Read More News Center Events Weekly Cybersecurity Lecture Series A free, open-to-the-public, one-hour lecture offered each Friday during Spring and Fall semesters features thought leaders who are advancing the field of cybersecurity. Meet executives from Fortune 500 companies, researchers from federal intelligence agencies, as well as university faculty and students sharing their latest discoveries. Learn More 2021 Georgia Tech Cybersecurity Summit The 2021 Cybersecurity Summit promises to be noteworthy and informative complete with the latest intelligence on cybersecurity. Learn More See More Events Georgia Tech Resources Offices & Departments News Center Campus Calendar Special Events GreenBuzz Institute Communications Visitor Resources Campus Visits Directions to Campus Visitor Parking Information GTvisitor Wireless Network Information Georgia Tech Global Learning Center Georgia Tech Hotel & Conference Center Barnes & Noble at Georgia Tech Ferst Center for the Arts Robert C. Williams Paper Museum Cybersecurity Research Areas Attribution Consumer-facing Privacy Cyber Physical Systems Privacy Policy Risk Trust Other Research Areas at Georgia Tech Cybersecurity Labs & Centers Astrolavos Lab CDAIT CIPHER Lab Communications Assurance & Performance Lab Converged Systems Security Lab CyFi Lab Financial Services Innovation Lab Georgia Tech Cyber Security Information & Communications Laboratory Intel ISTC-ARSA Center Polo Club of Data Science Systems Software & Security Laboratory Cybersecurity Education M.S. Cybersecurity M.S. Computer Science Online M.S. C.S. Ph.D. Computer Science Ph.D. Electrical & Computer Engineering Ph.D. Fellowship CyberCorps Scholarship for Service Professional Education Institute for Information Security & Privacy Klaus Advanced Computing Building 266 Ferst Drive, Atlanta, GA 30332 (404) 385-3800 Contact Us Use of Corporate Logos Site Feedback Emergency Information Legal & Privacy Information Accessibility Accountability Accreditation Employment © Georgia Institute of Technology