Skip to content Columbia University Irving Medical Center Find People Events Faculty and Staff Resources Give Now Search About Us About Us Facts and Figures Explore CUIMC Events Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion at CUIMC Community Development and Alumni Explore CUIMC Leadership and Administration A-Z Listing Affiliated Hospitals Campus Map and Directions Campus Resources Contact CUIMC Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion At CUIMC, we are committed to continuous improvement in providing culturally inclusive medical education and clinical care. Learn About Our Commitment Education Education Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons Mailman School of Public Health School of Nursing College of Dental Medicine VP&S Columbia Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons is dedicated to developing the next generation of leaders in medicine Learn About Our Academic Programs Research Research The Louisa Gross Horwitz Prize Columbia Technology Ventures Research Administration Columbia Clinical Innovation Lab Patient Care Patient Care ColumbiaDoctors Children's Health Columbia Primary Care Herbert Irving Comprehensive Cancer Center ColumbiaDoctors Dentistry Digital Health Services at Columbia Find a Doctor Search for a provider by specialty, expertise, location and insurance. Schedule an appointment online. Find a Doctor News News For the Media Share Your News CUIMC Update CUIMC Celebrates Columbia Medicine Read the latest news stories about CUIMC faculty, research, and events Explore Our News COVID-19 Resources for CUIMC COVID-19 Resources for CUIMC COVID-19 Information for Patients COVID-19 Campus Safety for Employees and Students COVID-19 Vaccine Information For CUIMC Employees and Students COVID-19 Information and Resources for Clinical Staff COVID-19 Vaccine Information Learn about COVID-19 vaccine availability and requirements for employees and students at CUIMC Get the Latest Information CUIMC Update Sharing news for the faculty, staff, and trainees of Columbia University Irving Medical Center. View previous issues of CUIMC Update. Topics Campus News Research Medical School Public Health Cancer Mental Health Infectious Diseases Neurology Neuroscience Education Heart Health Pediatrics View All Topics Search All News Keywords News Top Stories CUIMC Update - June 1, 2022 View the CUIMC Update, a weekly e-newsletter featuring medical center news and the accomplishments of our faculty, staff, and trainees. Topic Campus News Neighborhood Corner Co-Named Coogan's Way Coogan's bar and restaurant, the now-closed beloved fixture in Washington Heights, was celebrated with the co-naming of the corner of Broadway and 169th Street as Coogan's Way. Topic Campus News Hepatitis Outbreak Among Kids: What Parents Should Know Health authorities around the world are investigating rare cases of children with severe hepatitis of unknown cause. Mercedes Martinez, MD, explains. Topic Pediatrics 3 Myths About Celiac Disease The nutritionists at Columbia University’s Celiac Disease Center have heard every myth about celiac disease, even from their own patients. Topic Campus News Latest News CDM Graduate Named Acting Director of the NIH December 20, 2021 CDM alumnus Lawrence A. Tabak, DDS, PhD, today took on the role of acting director of the National Institutes of Health, succeeding Francis Collins. Topic Dentistry New Study Adds More Evidence for Omicron Immune Evasion December 17, 2021 A new study from COVID researchers at Columbia and the University of Hong Kong adds more evidence that the omicron variant can evade the immune protection conferred by vaccines and natural infection. Topic Campus News Study Questions Widely Used Race-Based Formula to Define Lung Disease December 16, 2021 New results from a long-term epidemiologic study reveal that one of the oldest racially based diagnostic formulas in medicine is no better than a race-neutral equation. Topic General Medicine Katrina Armstrong Appointed to Lead CUIMC December 13, 2021 Katrina Armstrong, MD, has been appointed to lead Columbia University Irving Medical Center and  Columbia University's Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons. Topic Campus News CUIMC Update - Dec. 13, 2021 December 13, 2021 View the CUIMC Update, a weekly e-newsletter featuring medical center news and the accomplishments of our faculty, staff, and trainees. Topic Campus News Experimental Gene Therapy Reverses Sickle Cell Disease for Years December 13, 2021 An experimental gene therapy for sickle cell disease restored blood cells to their normal shape and eliminated severe pain crises for years after treatment, a multicenter study has found. Topic Research Columbia Primary Care Removes Barriers to Improve Mental Health December 13, 2021 A new program at ColumbiaDoctors embeds behavioral health specialists alongside primary care providers to care for patients’ mental health needs. Topic Mental Health Smarter Radiation Therapy Enhances Personalized Care for Cancer Patients December 6, 2021 The latest advance in radiation therapy—using AI to adjust treatments as needed—is now available for select cancer patients at Columbia University Irving Medical Center/NewYork-Presbyterian. Topic Cancer CUIMC Update - Dec. 6, 2021 December 6, 2021 View the CUIMC Update, a weekly e-newsletter featuring medical center news and the accomplishments of our faculty, staff, and trainees. Topic Campus News French Delegation Visits Columbia Stem Cell Initiative December 6, 2021 The visit was the first stop on a U.S. tour to discuss common ambitions in higher education, research, and innovation. Topic Campus News Pages first previous … 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 … next last Columbia University Irving Medical Center NewYork-Presbyterian About Us Careers News Education Patient Care Research Resources at CUIMC Columbia University Irving Medical Center 630 West 168th Street New York, NY 10032 United States Follow Us Facebook Twitter YouTube LinkedIn Instagram Back to top