Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Health Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Our Services Appointments Health Topics Events Forms and Guidelines Our Organization News See All Services What's Open Now Patient Resources Quarantine and Isolation Support Coping Tools Immunization Compliance Top Services Birth Control Education Individual Counseling Primary Care Register with Disability Services Sexual Assault: Get Support STI Testing Support Groups Travel Medicine Urgent Medical Concerns Workshops and Trainings Cost of Service Overview Make an Appointment Same Day Service Emergency and After-hours Support Alcohol Body Image Concerns Marijuana Disabilities Other Drugs HIV Insurance Men's Health Mental Health and Well-Being Anxiety Depression Stress Nutrition Physical Activity Relationships Overview Academic Relationships Friendships Roommates Sexual and Reproductive Health Sleep Transgender and Gender Expansive Health Violence Prevention Prevention Consent What Is Sexual Assault? Supporting a Survivor What Is Relationship Abuse? Stalking What Is Sexual Harassment? Bystander Intervention-Step UP! Women's Health See All Events Sexual Assault Awareness Month Columbia Health Flu Season Information Virtual Naloxone Training About Columbia Health Who We Are Who We Serve Confidentiality, Patient Rights, & Patient Responsibilities Operating Philosophy Video Library Your Feedback Staff Directory Health Units Alice! Health Promotion Counseling and Psychological Services Disability Services Gay Health Advocacy Project (GHAP) Insurance Office Medical Services Sexual Violence Response Columbia Health You are here: Home Resources For Students Get Involved Get Involved Columbia Health encourages students from across the University to get involved by volunteering as educators and advocates. Find an opportunity below. Expand all Collapse all Alice! Well-being Peer Advocates Do you believe in advocacy? Looking to develop your coaching skills? Are you passionate about helping individuals navigate their health and well-being? Alice! Health Promotion is recruiting volunteers to serve as Well-being Advocates! Graduate students from across the university and affiliates are welcome to apply. During your tenure, Advocates will gain invaluable coaching experience and become a Certified Wellness & Health Coach! Well-being Advocates provide 1:1 support to students through the Wellness Coaching program at Columbia Health. Eligibility criteria: Currently enrolled graduate student at Columbia University or affiliates Committed to at least 1 year of service (Fall 2022- Spring 2023) Timeline: March 1 - March 31, 2022: Application open April 2022: Advocate interviews May 2022: Offers go out to selected advocates Summer 2022: Advocate training; specific dates will be determined once new advocate cohort is selected. Apply to be a Well-being Advocate Join us at a virtual information session to learn more about what it means to be a Well-being Advocate! Click the link below to register for an info session. Monday, March 21 at 7 PM Wednesday, March 30 at 7 PM What is wellness coaching? Wellness Coaching is an evidence-based practice that takes a positive approach to personal development through centering individual strengths, values, and motivations to support behavior change(s) via a collaborative and non-judgmental partnership. Wellness Coaching is available to any currently enrolled Columbia University student at the Morningside and Manhattanville Campus. Gay Health Advocacy Project Advocates Gay Health Advocacy Project advocates are student volunteers trained to address a broad range of issues pertaining to sexual and emotional health. Advocates provide information about the prevention and treatment of HIV and other sexually transmitted infections (STIs), as well as the psychological factors connected to these issues. New advocate recruitment and training takes place each year in the fall semester. Students from all of Columbia’s undergraduate and graduate schools, as well as affiliate institutions, are welcome to apply. Questions? Call us at (212) 854-6655 or email [email protected]. Sexual Violence Response Peer Advocates Peer advocates provide survivors and their supporters with confidential emotional support, accompaniment, and referrals to on- and off-campus resources. They also help survivors make informed decisions about their medical, legal, and disciplinary options. Peer advocates receive 40 hours of training and are supervised by advisers at Columbia and Barnard. If you are interested in learning more about becoming a peer advocate, apply online. Sexual Violence Response Peer Educators Peer educators with the Sexual Violence Response program are students of all gender identities committed to preventing sexual and intimate partner violence and to educating their peers about healthy relationships and sexuality. Peer educators participate in 40 hours of training to: Gain an in-depth understanding of sexual and intimate partner violence Hone facilitation techniques Learn presentation skills They also participate in continuing education to refine these skills. Peer educators facilitate interactive workshops and discussions both on- and off-campus, plan events for sexual assault and relationship violence awareness months, and engage in community outreach. Peer educators provide the University community with information about: Sexual violence and relationship abuse Campus services available for survivors and co-survivors Positive ways to communicate about sex Social and cultural norms that can contribute to violence How to create a safe and supportive environment that does not tolerate sexual violence Request a workshop for your team with our peer educators by completing the online Sexual Violence Response workshop request form. Apply to become a peer educator by completing the peer educator application. For more information, contact Sexual Violence Response at (212) 854-4357. Student Health Advisory Committee The Student Health Advisory Committee acts as a liaison between the Columbia student body and the six departments and offices of Columbia Health: Alice! Health Promotion Counseling and Psychological Services Disability Services Insurance and Immunization Compliance Medical Services and Gay Health Advocacy Project Sexual Violence Response The committee has three primary goals: To facilitate communication between students and Columbia Health administration and personnel To establish an active link to the student community for Columbia Health information and activities To involve students in the planning and implementation of student health-related programs and services Who serves on the committee? The Student Health Advisory Committee is comprised of Columbia students and works with the Columbia Health leadership team to determine committee priorities and initiatives. The committee includes both undergraduate and graduate students. Various student groups, organizations, and representatives from student government are members of the committee. Members are expected to attend committee meetings and maintain a high level of engagement with the committee. When does the committee meet? The committee holds monthly meetings during the academic year To find out when the next committee meeting will be held, email [email protected]. How does someone become a committee member? If you are interested in joining the committee as a member, or have any questions about membership expectations, email [email protected]. Questions or concerns? For questions or to bring a concern to the attention of the committee, email [email protected]. Student Employment Opportunities Be a valuable part of Columbia Health programs, services, and initiatives. We have opportunities for undergraduate and graduate students, including work-study. Student Resources Links to Success Funding for Student Organizations Get Involved Student Employment Summer Program Need help with weekend or late night distress? Check out our Coping Tools page for various digital services, mobile apps, and online resources outside our regular hours of operation. Our limited podcast series, Invisible and On Stage, provides an open conversation around racism-related stress, identity, and community, and the way they impact mental health. Listen now! The entire Columbia Health team, photographed in Lerner Hall. Click the image to see a larger version. Columbia Health Alice! Health Promotion Disability Services Counseling and Psychological Services Gay Health Advocacy Project (GHAP) Insurance Office Immunization Compliance Office Medical Services Sexual Violence Response All Columbia Health offices are closed on University Holidays. Annual Report Columbia Health Annual Report Stay Connected Receive important news and event info from Columbia Health Columbia Health Events Join us for workshops, panel discussions, skill-building opportunities, and other events! Accessibility Accommodations Columbia Health makes every effort to accommodate individuals with disabilities. If you require disability accommodations to attend an event sponsored by Columbia Health, or by the University, contact Disability Services at 212-854-2388 at least 10 days in advance of the event. 212-854-2284 [email protected] Columbia Health Administration Wallach Hall, Suite 125, Mail Code 4202, 1116 Amsterdam Avenue · New York, NY 10027 Phone 212-854-2284 Contact Us [email protected] Internal Use Only Login to Access Follow Us Facebook Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close