Utah State University sites use cookies. By continuing to use this site you accept our privacy and cookie policy. I agree Skip to content Apply Visit Give Calendar A-Z Index Directory Libraries QUICK LINKS MyUSU SEARCH Utah State TODAY Close search Search Utah State University: I want to search All USU sites People Search terms Submit search × Utah State TODAY Open main menu Close Open search Home Explore Stories Close Explore Stories Arts & Humanities Business & Society Health & Wellness Land & Environment Science & Technology Teaching & Learning Campus Life Athletics University Affairs Series Topics In Focus All Stories Resources Close Resources Subscribe USU Pressroom USU in the News Submission Instructions Submit a Press Release Contact us Quick Links Close Quick Links Apply Visit Give Calendar A-Z Index Directory Libraries MyUSU Campus Life USU Marks Juneteenth With Three Days of Events By Steve Kent | May 25, 2022 Video by Taylor Emerson, Digital Journalist, University Marketing & Communications As Juneteenth gains more recognition across the U.S., Utah State University is preparing its second year of events marking the holiday. "We're growing," said Juneteenth Committee Co-Chair Jamal-Jared Alexander, a USU alumnus. "This is the university's second-annual event series, and we have tripled the events thanks to the many different institutional and community stakeholders." Events will span three days with the theme "Educate, Celebrate and Activate." The educational component, according to Juneteenth Committee co-chairs Cree Taylor Alexander, will help attendees understand that Juneteenth has more to do with Utah history than many assume. "There seems to be a disconnect about 'Why Utah?' Why should the state of Utah have Juneteenth as a state holiday?" said Taylor, a lecturer in USU's Department of English. "The hope is that through education, people will learn, well, you had enslaved folks … from the very beginning when this place was colonized. … Black people have been here for a long time. And here's our history also. And that history is Utah history." Utah Gov. Spencer Cox signed a law to make Juneteenth National Freedom Day a state holiday in March 2022. Subsequently, USU President Noelle E. Cockett announced Wednesday that Juneteenth would be observed as an additional, official campus holiday. June 20, 2022, will be a campus closure day, classes will be canceled, and the day will be a paid holiday for benefited employees. Another goal of this year's celebrations is to strengthen ties between the university and its Black students and alumni, Taylor said. Taylor reached out to about 40 alumni regarding the event and noticed a trend. "One common theme that I found among African American alumni is that they don't feel as connected to Utah State as their White counterparts do," Taylor said. She hopes to change that through university events such as Juneteenth. Educate: Friday, June 17 Friday's events include: The Utah Black History Museum Bus, from 10 a.m. to 6 p.m. outside the Nora Eccles Harrison Museum of Art. An exhibit within NEHMA from 10 a.m. to 7 p.m. A silent auction from 10 a.m. to 7 p.m. in the Russell/Wanlass Performance Hall foyer on USU’s Logan campus. Details for the auction will be announced on juneteenth.usu.edu. A panel series from noon to 7 p.m. in the Russell/Wanlass Performance Hall. There will be three panels, each an hour long with a moderated question-and-answer period afterward. Panels include: Noon: Black students and alumni. Panelists will bring a variety of viewpoints, with a later panel focusing specifically on student-athletes. While Athletics brings in a lot of students from diverse backgrounds, there are many African American students on the Logan campus who do not come as student-athletes. This panel will provide insight into what brought these students to USU, their experiences on campus (distinct from the student-athlete experience), and ways they think USU's campus and community can better support them. 2 p.m.: Student-athletes and alumni. Taylor, who earned academic all-WAC honors while competing in USU Track & Field in the 2010s, will be moderating the panel. Panelists will include representatives from Track & Field, Men’s Basketball and Football, and Women’s Basketball 5:30 p.m.: Interfaith panel. The final panel will explore the question of how people of varying religious backgrounds and denominations can approach activism. The panel includes African American leaders from a variety of local churches, and the discussion will be moderated by Jacqueline Thompson, who last year returned to the Davis County School District as assistant superintendent to incorporate her expertise on diversity and equity. Taylor said she's encountered people, often in Christian communities, who recognize the harms of racism, but "activism is a word they don't quite understand how to apply to their own lives." An alumni mixer from 3-5 p.m. in the Russell/Wanlass Outer Courtyard. Celebrate: Saturday, June 18 Saturday's events provide an opportunity for celebration and are especially catered to families, teenagers, and young children. They include: A Juneteenth 5K, organized with the aid of Utah State Athletics, will start at 8:30 a.m. on the Reeder Cross-Country Course, 1165 E. 1400 North in Logan. Registration is available at juneteenth.usu.edu. A barbecue from 11 a.m. to 2:30 p.m. at Bridger Park, 1179 N. 400 West in Logan. Attractions for the entire family include a visit from Big Blue, games and sports with USU student-athletes, balloon animals, bounce houses and Aggie Ice cream. Registration for this event is also available at juneteenth.usu.edu.. A screening of the film "His Name Is Green Flake," at 6 p.m. in the Russell/Wanlass Performance Hall. Green Flake and two other enslaved men were with the first Latter-day Saint pioneers to colonize the Salt Lake Valley in 1847. About an hour of the film will be shown, leaving time for a Q&A with director Mauli Junior Bonner and his brother Yahosh Bonner, who stars as Green Flake. At the event, the Bonners will be accepting donations for a monument to Green Flake and other enslaved pioneers planned for Heritage Park in Salt Lake City. Activate: Sunday, June 19 On Sunday, an interfaith devotional at 6 p.m. in the Taggart Student Center Ballroom will build off Friday's interfaith panel and continue the conversation of how to unify communities. The interfaith devotional will include performances from the Debra Bonner Unity Gospel Choir, Cree Taylor, and Yarosh Bonner. Speakers include Debra Bonner, Harry Bonner, and Pastor Daryll Jackson of the Trinity AME Church in Salt Lake City. For more info, visit USU's Juneteenth event web page. WRITER Steve Kent Editor Utah State Today (435)797-1393 steve.kent@usu.edu CONTACT Cree Taylor Lecturer Department of English cree.taylor@usu.edu Comments and questions regarding this article may be directed to the contact person listed on this page. Next Story in Campus Life May 26, 2022 303 Utah State University Brings Academics, Esports Together While sporting events often bring to mind visions of basketball matches, football tailgates and homecoming celebrations, another kind of sport is taking hold. Read the Story See Also May 17, 2022 542 Utah State University Wasatch Region Celebrates Class of 2022 Utah State University Salt Lake was delighted to host a celebration for the class of 2022 on Friday, May 13, for the USU Wasatch Region. Trending on Utah State Today Read the Story HEALTH & WELLNESS May 19, 2022 165461 Update for USU Community on Coronavirus Read the Story UNIVERSITY AFFAIRS May 02, 2022 2707 USU Names Irungu Inaugural VP of Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Read the Story UNIVERSITY AFFAIRS May 26, 2022 2643 Degree Programs Realigned to Create New Department at Utah State University Read the Story UNIVERSITY AFFAIRS May 03, 2022 2627 Utah State University to Award More Than 7,000 Degrees in 2022 FOLLOW US USU Facebook USU Twitter USU YouTube USU Instagram USU LinkedIn Old Main Hill, Logan, UT 84322 (435) 797-1000 EXPLORE STORIES Browse Archives Explore Topics Explore Series USU in the News FOR THE MEDIA Pressroom Media Contacts Media resources About USU SUBSCRIBE Receive our weekly newsletter. Subscribe to Utah State Today Email Subscribe Maps & Directions Search USU Campus Safety Jobs Contact Disclaimers Copyright Privacy Accessibility Non-Discrimination Back to top of the page