COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW Details: Assistive Technology and Accessible Design, Undergraduate Certificate Undergraduate CertificateAssistive Technology and Accessible Design All Programs College of Engineering Engineering Technology Wichita State’s undergraduate certificate in assistive technology and accessible design is an interdisciplinary program useful for any major wanting to create innovations that improve learning, working and daily living for people with disabilities. Students will learn from faculty across campus and work with service providers to design and create products and equipment such as communication boards, specialized learning materials, mounting systems, electronic devices, walkers, pencil holders, screen readers, communication programs and much more. Learn how assistive technology and accessible design is the right fit for you. Contact Coordinator Curriculum This 15-credit-hour program includes curriculum from several disciplines, including the health professions, innovation design, engineering, sociology and psychology. Introduction to Technology and Innovation Applied Human Anatomy Accessible Design Ergonomics or Human Factors Psychology Social Consequences of Disability Engineering majors can earn both Engineer of 2020 Innovation and Service Learning credits. View the curriculum How to enroll To add this certificate to your plan of study: Log into the myWSU portal, find the Student Tools box (center of the page) and click "Change my Major/Minor." Click continue (this will show your current major and minor). Click continue, then click on "Add a certificate" and choose your certificate program. Click continue and submit request. Go to the myWSU portal Inside the Program Students develop technologies to aid community members The Assistive Technology and Accessible Design program at Wichita State provides students with opportunities to create innovations that improve the lives of people with disabilities. Student teams in ENGR 302: Accessible Design modify existing mobility technology for young children with cerebral palsy including: a jogging wheelchair to accommodate outdoor exploring for a 6-year-old and a traditional bicycle for a 5-year-old. Students in ENGR 202: Service Learning in Engineering optimized a tablet app and stylus to help a nonverbal USD 259 student communicate. 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©