Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Campus Card Your Campus Card Tiger Eat$ Tiger Funds Meal Plans & Dining Student Dining Appeals Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact Tiger Eat$ Program Tiger Eat$ Transfer to Meal Plan Take Action Frequently Asked Questions Student Dining Agreement Vending Locations Contact Us Follow Us Online Facebooktwitter Home Campus Card Tiger Eat$ Program Tiger Eat$ Tiger Eat$, Flex Buck$ and Meal Plans will be available for the Spring 2022 semester through Thursday, May 5, 2022 On campus dining is an important part of campus life. The Tiger Eat$ Program provides resident and commuter students the opportunity to connect with friends, stay healthy, boost your energy to start the day or unwind after a long day. Tiger Eat$ offers the flexibility to purchase dining items without the need to carry cash. Our goal is to integrate both commuting and resident students to experience a full college life. Students can enjoy a meal while working on a project or grab a snack between classes. Check out our dining and vending locations to see where you can conveniently use Tiger Eat$ funds. You may access your Your Campus Card account, view your balance or review your transaction history. Students that elect to upgrade to an optional commuter or resident meal plan, by the deadline, will have the Tiger Eat$ fee deducted from their student bill. How Does the Tiger Eat$ Plan Work? All full-time undergraduate students participate in the Tiger Eat$ program. If you are an undergraduate student, enrolled in 12 or more credit hours and at least one of your classes is on campus, you will automatically have $300 in Tiger Eat$ added to your account each fall and spring semester. Students will be able to use these funds at all UofM dining locations. The Tiger Eat$ averages to $2.68 per day or $18.75 per week to spend UofM Dining on campus for meals, beverages and snacks, including Starbucks and some vending machines. Any Tiger Eat$ balance from the fall semester will be transferred to the spring semester. You have until the last day of the spring semester to use the funds and dine around campus. Questions? For questions about Tiger Eat$ or fee payment, please visit our Contact Us page and choose the most convenient way to get help for you. If you have questions about financial aid, please call the Financial Aid Office at 901.678.4825. If you have questions about room and board, please call Residence Life at 901.678.2295. Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 5/12/22 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.