Skip to main content UCF Financial Aid Navigation Apply for Aid Types of Aid ScholarshipsGrantsLoansWaiversFederal Work Study (FWS) Receive Aid Forms Resources For Prospective StudentsFor Parents & FamiliesFor Newly Admitted StudentsFor Current UCF StudentsFor DonorsTuition and Cost EstimatesFinancial Aid Help VideosFinancial Literacy GuideFAQsPoliciesContact Helping You Pay for College Financial Aid & Scholarships Schedule an Appointment Today! Summer Financial Aid INFORMATION The awarding process for the summer term differs from our fall and spring awarding processes. It is important students understand the steps for applying and receiving financial aid for the summer term. Learn more about Summer Financial Aid regarding summer aid eligibility, how to apply, and what types of financial aid are available to UCF students. Complete the 2022-2023 FAFSA All students must apply or reapply for financial aid every year. Completing the Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) automatically allows you to be considered for federal, state and university financial aid programs. FAFSA applications become available on October 1 for the following academic year. Filling out the FAFSA is free. Find out more at our FAFSA information page UCF FAFSA Priority Date: DECEMBER 1 FAFSA School Code: 003954 Knights Armor Up and Wear Masks Indoors We expect that all members of our UCF community take personal precautions, including wearing masks indoors and getting vaccinated to protect themselves, in accordance with the CDC’s latest guidance. Vaccines are our most effective tool in combating hospitalization and death due to COVID-19, and wearing masks can help prevent the spread of the virus. Visit UCF Coronavirus Information: Update on Fall Plans and Precautions for details. Summer Financial Aid Information regarding summer aid eligibility, how to apply, and what types of financial aid are available to UCF students. View Summer Financial Aid Projected Financial Aid Form Students may submit a request to receive documentation of their Projected Financial Aid online. Once the request has been submitted, eligible students will receive an email with the projected aid summary from the Office of Student Financial Assistance. Your Guide to Affording College From scholarships and grants to student loans and student employment, there are many ways to pay for college — and many questions, too. You can find all the answers here, including how to make the best of your investment in higher education. You’ve got questions? We’ve got answers. Financial aid at UCF, where do I start? Check out the Financial Aid Guide for more information about accepting your awards. View the Financial Aid Guide Where can I find videos about financial aid? Watch these short videos to gain an understanding of the financial aid process at UCF, including an overview of the FAFSA. Explore Financial Aid Videos How do I get financial aid? To apply for financial aid, the most important thing is to complete the FAFSA every year and follow the checklist below to avoid potential delays or setbacks. Follow the Financial Aid Checklist What types of aid are available to me? There are five types of financial aid — scholarships, grants, loans, waivers and federal work study. Find out which ones work best for you. Explore types of aid I’ve already applied for financial aid. What’s next? Visit the Receive Aid Checklist and your To-Do List on myUCF to ensure you have submitted all the required items and documents. Financial Aid Summaries will be sent to your Knights Email, so make sure you check that account often. View the Receive Aid Checklist When will I get my financial aid? Funds begin being disbursed the week after Drop/Swap & Add and continue each week throughout the semester as students complete and meet all eligibility requirements. Understand financial aid disbursement Upcoming Dates/Deadlines No upcoming deadlines at this time. Which type of student are you? Prospective Student Interested in coming to UCF? Find out costs, financial aid options and more. Newly Admitted Knight You’re in! Now what? We’ll guide you through the financial aid process. Current Knight Find all the forms and deadlines to help you pay for college. Scholarship Opportunities Search for scholarships that fit your life right now and your academic aspirations for the future. Check Out Scholarships Financial Aid Forms Here are the financial aid forms you need to apply, renew, appeal and more. All forms are date sensitive, so be sure to select the correct academic year. Download & Upload Forms Tuition & Costs Here are the costs of college — and how you can make it affordable. Check out estimates for tuition & fees, room & board, and other living expenses you may encounter in college. View Cost of Attendance Centsible Knights – Top 50 Financial Literacy Program in 2020 The University of Central Florida’s Centsible Knights program has daily office hours for students to attend in case of any need for financial literacy and education counseling. The university has plenty of online articles and events helping students understand their financial situation, and also offers GradReady, “a free interactive website with online videos and resources to better assist students in making sound financial decisions.” First-Stop – Downtown Student Affairs Students are encouraged to visit First Stop, located on the first floor in UnionWest for assistance with any of the above services. When you visit First Stop, please sign in and indicate the services you need assistance with. You will be greeted by a Student Services Coach or Student Services Advisor to assist you with your questions. Visit the First-Stop Downtown Student Affairs office online at dtc.sdes.ucf.edu/first-stop/ Contact Us Email: [email protected] Phone: (844) 376-9160 Fax: (407) 823-5241 Office Hours Monday to Friday: 9 a.m. - 5 p.m. Mailing Address Office of Student Financial Assistance P.O. Box 160113 Orlando, FL 32816-0113 Office Address Office of Student Financial Assistance 4000 Central Florida Blvd. Millican Hall, Room 107 Orlando, FL 32816-0113 UCF FAFSA School Code: 003954 UCF's Priority Date for FAFSA: December 1