COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW Conflict of Interest (COI) Section Menu Research Compliance Business Ethics CITI Online Training Conflict of Interest FAQ Financial Conflict of Interest Depository of Certifications & Assurance Export Compliance International Travel Regulatory Disclosures Report Export Compliance Concerns Restricted Party Screening Unmanned Aerospace Systems/Vehicles Compliance WSU Foreign Influence Office of Research Home Page COI - What Not to Disclose Overview Wichita State University employees are encouraged to interact with business, industry, public and private foundations, and government agencies to facilitate professional development. They are also encouraged to promote the expansion and application of knowledge gained through research. It is important that these activities are conducted in a manner that avoids or minimizes conflicts of time commitments and conflicts of interest. Policies and Reporting The Kansas Board of Regents (KBOR) and WSU policies require that all University employees (except student employees and graduate students) complete and submit a yearly report of financial interests and time commitments. All University employees must complete a disclosure even if the employee has no involvement in sponsored programs and/or no conflicts of time interest. Additionally, it is the responsibility of the employee to make and file ad hoc reports to disclose any instances of conflict (actual or potential) as soon as they become known, and in any instance, not later than thirty (30) days after discovery or acquisition of the actual or potential conflict of time commitment or interest. Need to complete your annual report? We are happy to announce that the reporting process is now automated and available under ‘My Training’ after signing onto myWSU or directly after signing on to the Conflict of Interest Form. Conflict Of Interest - Definitions 1. What is a conflict of interest? A conflict of interest exists when a person’s outside or private interests affect – or appear to affect – their Institutional Responsibilities and judgment as a Wichita State employee 2. What is a conflict of time commitment? A conflict of time commitment may exist when an employee's external activities, performed with or without pay, involve a commitment of time that may compete, or appear to compete with the employee's obligations to the University. 3. What are “Institutional Responsibilities?” “Institutional Responsibilities” involve a variety of scholarly and professional obligations carried out on behalf of the University. These may include, but are not limited to teaching, research, scholarship, professional practice and service, etc. These responsibilities may or may not be included in your official position description. So, an easy way to determine your Institutional Responsibilities is to ask yourself “what do I do for or on behalf of Wichita State University?” That long list that you come up with? Those are your Institutional Responsibilities that could present a conflict. 4. What are “financial and managerial interests?” For purposes of conflict of interest, these interests are defined as “all holdings greater than $5,000 or more than 5% ownership.” 5. What is outside employment/collaboration?” These activities are defined in Section G of WSU Policy 3.04 / Commitment of Time, Conflict of Interest, Consulting and Other Employment 6. What are “lobbying activities”? Lobbying activities include, but are not limited to any written, oral, or electronic communication regarding any proposed or adopted federal legislation, rule, or executive order, or the administration of any federal program with any covered executive or legislative branch official. This includes the negotiation, award, or administration of any federal contract, grant, loan, permit, or license. 7. What is “sponsored or reimbursed travel?” Reimbursed or sponsored travel is related to the investigator's Institutional Responsibilities. 8. What is a collaboration (and do I have to disclose even if there is no money involved)? A collaboration is basically anything: formal partnerships with international/domestic scholars, agreements to explore areas of common interest, student and faculty exchanges, joint publications, gifts from donors, contracts with vendors, etc. A collaboration can exist even if there is no money involved. Reporting - General 1. Why do I need to submit a COI Disclosure form? Wichita State University's Conflict of Interest Policy, as well as the Kansas Board of Regents Conflict of Interest Policy, require certain members of the Wichita State community to complete a COI disclosure annually. The COI disclosure form collects information related to significant financial interests, conflicts of time commitment, supervisory conflicts, gifts, and foreign influence. 2. When and where do I submit my COI Disclosure form? The new annual COI cycle runs between April 1 and March 31. Annual reporting is conducted electronically via myWSU. In April, when the annual cycle begins, Wichita State employees will receive an email with instructions on submission. All disclosures will be due by April 30. All WSU personnel participating in research or sponsored projects must have a current COI Disclosure on file prior to proposal submission and/or award acceptance. 3. I submitted my annual COI Disclosure form; do I need to submit updates at other times during the year? Maybe. Per Wichita State and KBOR policy, employees must disclose and current or prospective situations that may raise questions of conflict of interest or time commitment as soon as situations become known. For example, if you complete your annual disclosure during the month of April and report no conflicts, but in October of that same year, you are engaging in outside consulting, you will need to update your COI disclosure. If nothing changes from the time you submit your COI disclosure until it expires, you do not need to submit any updates in the interim. You must update your COI Disclosure form within 30 days of a change. 4. I do not have any conflicts. Why do I still need to submit a COI Disclosure? The determination regarding whether or not you have conflicts is not a self-determination but is instead made by the institution. In many instances, the perception of conflict is a critical factor to consider. Therefore, the institution does not ask whether you have “a conflict,” but rather asks employees to provide a list of your financial and other outside interests and then evaluates these against University responsibilities (i.e., research, teaching, etc.) to determine if these interests create potential conflicts. 5. Wait - don’t I already fill this out for the State of Kansas and/or HR? No. You are thinking of the Kansas Governmental Ethics Commission “Statement of Substantial Interest.” The SSI asks questions similar to Wichita State’s COI disclosure, but they are not the same disclosure. (And before you ask – yes, we’ve checked. One cannot be substituted for the other). 6. Am I required to report the financial interest of an external entity in which I (or identified others) have a financial or managerial interest in? No. WSU does not need the financial information of any external entity. You are simply required to fill out the questions as it relates to your (or your spouse, domestic partner, dependent child(ren), household member, or associated entity) financial or managerial interest. Reportable Interests 1. What do I have to disclose? Generally speaking, on the annual disclosure form, you will be asked to report financial and managerial interests; outside employment/collaboration; intellectual property; governmental ethics; sponsored or reimbursed travel; supervising relatives; and foreign collaboration. Please read the questions carefully. Reading the questions carefully and, if necessary, clicking on any hyperlinks provided, should give you enough guidance on how to answer the question and what or how much information to provide. See COI: What To Disclose for helpful examples 2. Are there activities that do not need to be disclosed? Yes. Certain activities are exempt and do not need to be reported on the COI disclosure. See “Conflict of Interest: What Not to Disclose” 3. Do I really need to report my spouse’s and dependent’s interests? Yes. The interests of a spouse or dependent are reportable if they meet the reporting criteria and threshold. That is, if they are related to your Institutional Responsibilities (not your spouse’s or dependent’s Institutional Responsibilities, in the event they work for Wichita State). 4. I’m not sure if I should disclose something. What should I do? You may disclose this in the last section of the Disclosure form under “other.” When in doubt, you are encouraged to disclose. Review and Management 1. Who reviews the COI disclosures? All COI disclosure are reviewed by staff in the Office of Research Compliance. The University is also in the process of creating a Conflict of Interest Review Board. COI disclosures with potential conflicts are referred to these two units for review. We will keep you up to date on the Review Board. 2. Who determines whether my interests could create a conflict of interest? The Office of Research Compliance, in conjunction with the COI Review Board, carefully review all COI disclosures to determine whether an interest could create a conflict of interest. When reviewing disclosures, they will consider a number of factors including, but not limited to the magnitude of the financial interest, the degree of overlap between the external interest and Institutional Responsibilities, and whether the external interest could affect University research or educational activity. They also take into consideration perception of the external interest in relation to Institutional Responsibilities. In general, a conflict of interest exists when an outside interest could compromise, or has the appearance of compromising, the professional judgment of an employee when designing, conducting, or reporting research, when teaching, and when carrying out general University duties and responsibilities. The existence of a conflict of interest does not imply any wrongdoing. Conflicts of interest are not in and of themselves unethical or impermissible. Indeed, they are often unavoidable, and in many cases can be appropriately managed or reduced to an acceptable level. However, employees should be cognizant of the fact that any outside activity, interest, or interaction with an outside entity has the potential to create conflicts, whether real or perceived. Recognition of potential conflicts, and sensitivity to how personal, financial, and other relationships can be perceived by others, are critical parts of managing conflicts. 3. If it is determined that I have a conflict of interest, does it automatically mean that I cannot participate in external activities? Not necessarily. Having a conflict of interest does not automatically prohibit you from participating in external activities. In most instances, a conflict of interest can be appropriately managed so that you can, for example, continue to participate in a research activity while keeping your financial or outside interest. In some rare instances the conflict may be such that it cannot be appropriately managed. In general, your outside activities and interests should not prevent you from carrying out your research activities, teaching, and other Institutional Responsibilities. 4. How are conflicts of interests managed? In many instances, a conflict of interest can be resolved by simple disclosure. In other instances, the conflict may require a management plan to reduce, manage, or eliminate any conflict. If a management plan is required, the Office of Research Compliance will develop a management plan in cooperation with the employee to address the conflict. Travel 1. Why do I have to disclose sponsored or reimbursed travel? Federal regulations require certain individuals to “disclose the occurrence of any reimbursed or sponsored travel related to their institutional responsibilities . . .” See 42 CFR 50.603. 2. What sponsored or reimbursed travel should be disclosed? Sponsored or reimbursed travel that should be disclosed includes but is not limited to the following: Reimbursed or sponsored travel related to Institutional responsibilities (including the purpose of trip, sponsor/organizer, destination, duration). Exceptions for travel are listed in the next section. Travel that is reimbursed or paid directly for consulting. Travel that is reimbursed or paid directly by a for-profit or non-profit organization for a conference, or to participate in a meeting. Travel that is reimbursed or paid directly when the investigator has a financial interest in that entity 3. What sponsored or reimbursed travel is not disclosed? The types of sponsored travel that do not need to be disclosed include: Travel that is funded by a sponsored award to Wichita State; Travel that is reimbursed to you through Wichita State; Travel that is reimbursed or paid directly by a federal, state, or local government agency; Travel that is reimbursed or paid directly by an institution of higher education as defined at 20 U.S.C. 1001(a); Travel that is reimbursed or paid directly by an academic teaching hospital, a medical center, or a research institute that is affiliated with an institution of higher education Don't see your question? Contact us at coi@wichita.edu. COI Training The Council on Governmental Relations (COGR) published “Recognizing and Managing Personal Financial Conflicts of Interest” as a resource guide for researchers and research universities. Publication Disclosure Statements Public disclosure is a management plan element that serves to protect investigators and WSU against any allegations of malfeasance by identifying and disclosing in an open and transparent way, all potential dual or competing interests that the investigator may have or appear to have in relation to his research. For more information about situations when disclosures should be made and specific language samples, please see “Publication Disclosure Statements for Conflicts of Interest.” To take WSU’s online COI training, please visit our CITI Online Training page. Conflict of Interest and Financial Conflict of Interest CITI Training Modules COI Course Module ID Estimated time to complete Researchers WSU Employees Budget Officers and Budget Review Officers Financial Conflicts of Interest: Overview, Investigator Responsibilities and COI Rules 15070 60 Minutes Yes No No Institutional Responsibilities As They Affect Investigators 15072 40 Minutes Yes No No Conflicts of Commitment and Conscience 15073 30 Minutes Yes Yes Yes Institutional Conflicts of Interest 16765 25 Minutes No No Yes COI Policies WSU Policy 3.04 / Commitment of Time, Conflict of Interest, Consulting and Other Employment WSU Policy 3.16 / Employment of Relatives</a WSU Policy 9.22 / Disclosure of Financial Conflicts of Interest for Public Health Service Supported Investigators Kansas Board of Regents Board Policy Manual National Institutes of Health Financial Conflict of Interest National Institutes of Health Research Integrity National Science Foundation Conflicts of Interest State of Kansas Governmental Ethics Commission 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©