Skip to main content ISU Index Menu iastate.edu Index A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z ISU Quick Links Menu Directory Maps Safety Sign Ons AccessPlus Canvas CyBox CyMail Outlook More Sign Ons... College of Agriculture and Life Sciences Main menu Main Menu About Administration Calendar Committees Departments and Centers Diversity Faculty & Staff Global Programs Lecture Series Satellite Campuses Alumni and Friends Alumni Relations STORIES Magazine Giving Research Research Highlights For Researchers Farms Students Student Services Majors Request Information Schedule a Visit Scholarships Careers Study Abroad Graduate Programs Online Learning Extension Extension Resources Ag and Natural Resources Visit the department site Questions about transferring into International Agriculture? Ebby Luvaga 174A Heady Hall (515) 294-5765 Future Students Majors Service Learning Meet Our Students International Agriculture The flexibility of the International Agriculture Program allows students to individualize their learning experiences by focusing their coursework on the global aspects of their primary major. Students in this program can study subjects connected to national and international development like international economics, food security, crop diversity, soil fertility, seed science, sustainable development, or cultural relations. To broaden students’ applied global knowledge, the program incorporates a combination of interdisciplinary coursework, internships, and study abroad experiences. Program participants have the opportunity to improve their knowledge of international agriculture while learning to apply their knowledge and skills outside the classroom. Practical insight gained by participation in the International Agriculture Program can improve a student’s career placement opportunities by involving them with international activities and agencies that can assist them with developing their personal skills and networks. These experiences combine to refine a participant’s critical thinking and problem-solving skills as well as enhance understanding of the analysis and management of global agriculture issues at home and abroad. Adviser: Ebby Luvaga luvaga@iastate.edu (515) 294-5765 Pairing global agriculture with any other major can put you a step up from the competition and will allow you the ability to apply your expertise to a field that helps the global community. College of Agriculture and Life Sciences 138 Curtiss Hall 513 Farm House Lane Ames IA 50011-1050 cals@iastate.edu (515) 294-2518 Facebook Twitter Instagram Vimeo STORIES Site Index Copyright © 2022 Iowa State University of Science and Technology. All rights reserved. Non-discrimination Policy Privacy Policy Digital Access & Accessibility