Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. Learning Commons Learning Commons right arrow down arrow Schedule a Service Programs and Policies right arrow down arrow Academic Coaching right arrow down arrow Meet the Academic Coaches Academic Writing Center right arrow down arrow Meet the Tutors Graduate Tutoring Learning Assistants Learning Communities right arrow down arrow Peer Leader Program Current Peer Leaders Current Peer Leader Coordinators Math & Science Support Center Peer Facilitation right arrow down arrow Current Peer Facilitators Current Peer Facilitator Coordinators Peer Tutoring Success Skills Workshops right arrow down arrow Step by Step Guide to Register Success Skills Workshop Policies Success Skills Workshop Topics Supplemental Instruction right arrow down arrow SI Schedule Supplemental Review Sessions (MATH 1096) Learning Resources right arrow down arrow Note-Taking and Test Strategies right arrow down arrow The Cornell Method for Note-Taking Reading for Main Ideas vs. Details SQ4R: Getting the Most from Your Textbooks PLAN: An Active Reading Strategy How to Ace Your Finals Learning Styles and Study Habits right arrow down arrow Strategies for Aural Learners Strategies for Kinesthetic Learners Strategies for Visual Learners Writing Resources Business Writing Materials right arrow down arrow Resume Writing Tips Cover Letter Tips Memo Writing Tips First-Year Students right arrow down arrow First Semester Checklist Achieve Your Goal GPA Technology Skills Anxiety, Attitude, and Stress right arrow down arrow Managing Stress New Concentration Ideas Look at Your Classes to Find Your Passion Defining Your Career Goals Math Minute right arrow down arrow Math Minute - Algebra Math Minute - Calculus Online Learning Strategies Student Employment right arrow down arrow Academic Coaching Positions Academic Writing Center Positions Front Desk Assistant Positions Learning Assistant Positions Learning Community Peer Leader Positions Peer Facilitator Positions Peer Tutoring Positions Success Skills Workshop Positions Supplemental Instruction Leader Positions SRS Leader & MASS Tutor Positions Professional Staff Home » Campus Life » Learning Commons » Programs and Policies » Success Skills Workshops » Success Skills Workshop Topics Set Navigation title in component Academic Coaching Meet the Academic Coaches Academic Writing Center Meet the Tutors Graduate Tutoring Learning Assistants Learning Communities Peer Leader Program Current Peer Leaders Current Peer Leader Coordinators Math & Science Support Center Peer Facilitation Current Peer Facilitators Current Peer Facilitator Coordinators Peer Tutoring Success Skills Workshops Step by Step Guide to Register Success Skills Workshop Policies Success Skills Workshop Topics Supplemental Instruction SI Schedule Supplemental Review Sessions (MATH 1096) Success Skills Workshop Topics Success Skills Workshop Main Page Guide to Register Make an Appointment Workshop Policies Jump to a specific workshop description: Preparing for the Semester Study Smarter, Not Longer Bulking up Your Notes Learning Online Manage Your Time Wisely Writing Well Presenting Like a Pro Training Your Brain Who Has Time for Finance? Managing Your Sleep Stress and Wellness Bouncing Back Group Work Pushing Past Procrastination Focus and Concentration Preparing for a Successful Semester: Planning and Organizing for Your Classes Most students start out the semester with the best of intentions. Without a continued plan, though, these positive habits can wane. With some early organization and planning, you can set yourself up for success throughout the semester. In this workshop, we will focus on structures of organization using your syllabi, effective academic habits, and time management that will result in a creation of your own unique plan for the semester. Key skills covered during this time are goal-setting, time management, prioritization and useful campus academic resources. Study Smarter, Not Longer: Study Skills Working For You Studying is one of the most useful tools in passing a class and yet, often, is one of the biggest stressors. Using research on memory to enhance studying, you will learn how to study smarter rather than longer. In this workshop, we will focus on the latest research on memory and studying, discuss different options of studying as they relate to different content, and practice different methods resulting in a personal study game plan. Key skills covered during this time are memory, study skills, time management, procrastination and motivation. Bulking Up Your Notes: Strategies for Taking Notes in College One of the biggest factors in your classroom learning is taking notes. A key aspect to learning and retaining knowledge is memory. Learn more about memory and notes to assess your note-taking style and bulk them up to be better than before. In this workshop, we will focus on the common myths and latest research on the skill of note-taking, how memory and note-taking relate to learning, styles of notes, and an assessment of your current behaviors resulting in the creation of your own blended style of taking notes. Key skills covered during this time are note-taking, metacognition, time management, and motivation. Learning Online With the world we live in today, more and more classes are being offered online, in the comfort of your own home. Without the typical classroom setting and syllabus structure, it’s easy to fall off track and get distracted. With a proper routine and plan of action to tackle online classes, you can learn as successfully as you would on campus. In this workshop, we will focus on how to maximize your living space and resources to effectively learn without stepping foot on campus. Some of the main points we will discuss during this time are time management, planning, useful campus academic resources, and communicating your peers and professors. Manage Your Time Wisely Many students spend their college career trying to juggle being a student, managing a social life, and maintaining a job. While this may sound overwhelming, it is made possible if you are able to practice adequate time management skills. In this workshop, we will discuss the myth of multitasking, overcoming procrastination and the science behind your brain’s attention span that will help you learn how to focus. We will utilize a case study to learn how to balance a weekly schedule and what strategies to use when making decisions about prioritization. Writing Well: Why and How to Write Your Next Essay or Paper Whether you are stuck on the first sentence or the last, writing an essay is messy and takes a lot of mental energy. Bring in an upcoming writing assignment and dive into strategies for writing well! In this workshop, we will focus on jumpstarting the writing process, qualities of a strong writer, and critical components of strong academic writing. Key skills covered during this time are the writing process, academic integrity, citation skills and motivation. Presenting Like a Pro: Utilizing Public Speaking Skills in Your Next Class Project Does the thought of presenting in front of your class terrify you? Are you seeking to be the best public speaker your professor has ever seen...or at least good enough to get a good grade? Come to this workshop with your topic in mind and willingness to practice your presention skills with others! In this workshop, we will focus on tips and tricks for presenting, practice strategies, and create action steps to prepare for your next class presentation. Training Your Brain Over the course of the semester, it can become increasingly difficult to feel motivated by your schoolwork. With each week, you can fall into a routine and your brain is no longer being stimulated as it was on the first week of class. However, there are some tricks to increasing your brain activity. In this workshop, we will discuss how to trick your brain into remaining focused in order to help you finish strong at the end of the semester. We will describe the science behind how your brain functions at such a high level and how you can train your brain into developing inspiration after weeks of hard work. Who has Time for Finance? Getting Familiar with Your Money Outside of courses, finances are one of the biggest stressors college students have. Do you want to work on this stressor so that it is less stressful? Come learn about how to control your money rather than it controlling you. In this workshop, we will focus on the different areas of finance (personal finance, student loans, and credit cards), strategies to start to manage your money, and finish out with resources to support your financial health moving forward. Managing Your Sleep Many students balance school, work, and a social life, and sleep often becomes the bottom of the priority list. Sleep has a very important role in our day to day lives and with the proper environment and schedule, you can learn to develop a healthy way to manage our sleep as well as your other commitments. In this workshop, we will focus on tips and tricks on how you can create a healthy sleep schedule that will help you avoid sleep deprivation, which will result in your ability to enhance your learning experience. The key topics covered during this time include the science behind sleep, benefits of good sleep, and how to create environment that will help you sleep better. Stress and Wellness: Finding Your Balance As the semester finishes up, students are overwhelmed with final papers, exams and projects. Often times, this workload leads to an overabundance of stress! Take some time to learn about balancing your assignments, studying and stress relief. In this workshop, we will focus on the science of stress, explore strategies of stress relief and create a balanced plan of action to help destress during Finals Week. Bouncing Back: Moving Past Surviving to Thriving Are you feeling overwhelmed by course work? Do you feel the weight of that poor exam grade? Move past the “I just need to survive this semester” and towards thriving. In this workshop, we will focus on the latest research on growth mindset and motivation, assessing your personal goals and action steps, and creating structures for achievement of these goals resulting in your own individualized plan for thriving in college. Key skills covered during this time are motivation, cognitive reframing, growth mindset, resiliency, and goal setting. Ugh, Group Work: How to Successfully Navigate Working with Peers Group work is all around college. Whether it is for one homework assignment or semester long project, you are required to participate in small groups with peers. Often times, this causes anxiety, stress and frustration leading to thoughts of “How do I do this?” Learn skills and strategies to move your small group experience from one of dread to opportunity. In this workshop, we will focus on the latest research on small group learning, key components to a successful small group experience, and tools to use when in the throes of a group project. Key skills covered are group dynamics, communication skills, and stress management. The Looming Exam: Push Past Procrastination to Action You sit down to start studying, ready to give this all you have. While you are pulling up your notes, you decide to take a little detour… next thing you know, you are lost in the sea of Netflix and Snapchat and your study time is up! This procrastination leads to more and more stress and less and less work. Come learn about procrastination and gain the skills to push past it to action and achievement. In this workshop, we will focus on the latest research on motivation and procrastination and an assessment of your own behaviors resulting in a balanced plan for continued motivation for your next exam and throughout the semester. Key skills covered are motivation, prioritization, stress management and perseverance. Focus & Concentration Many people struggle with the ability to focus on the task at hand, but now more than ever with many courses being taught online. Without discipline and motivation, it can be extremely difficult to succeed with classes taught in an online environment. With some practice, we can learn to concentrate and create internal motivation. In this workshop, we will discuss how to be successful learning from your own home using various strategies and techniques that will limit distractors, allowing you to be more productive. Some key skills we will discuss is learning how to pay attention as well as motivating yourself, despite what your surroundings may look like. Learning Commons 2510B French Hall West 513-556-3244 Fax: 513-556-0823 learningcommons@uc.edu UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati Learning Commons 2510B French Hall West 513-556-3244 Fax: 513-556-0823 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top