Global Navigation ISU News Store Contact Us Offices Iowa State University Hello Visitor! Log In or Register Featured "Strong Iowa" articleIgnite Innovation to Fight Food (In)Security Iowa high school students spent several weeks developing action plans to address food insecurity challenges in their communities. They presented their innovative solutions during Iowa State's IGNITE Innovation Showcase. Read More News Friday, May 27, 2022 - 10:26 Yard and Garden: Growing Sweet Potato in Iowa Ajay Nair In this week’s Yard and Garden article, horticulturists with Iowa State University Extension and Outreach answer questions about growing sweet potato. Friday, May 27, 2022 - 09:20 Fall Master Gardener Training Offered as Hybrid Course Alicia Herzog Iowans interested in completing Master Gardener training this fall can register with one of 66 Iowa State University Extension and Outreach county offices. Thursday, May 26, 2022 - 12:20 Beef Specialist Highlights the Importance of Quality Assurance and Beef Month Denise Schwab Iowa State University Extension and Outreach beef specialist Denise Schwab explains the importance of the beef quality assurance program in a new video. Thursday, May 26, 2022 - 11:08 Communicate with Children following Mass Shootings David Brown Children may experience a wide range of emotions in response to the news and social media information about recent mass shootings. David Brown, behavioral health state specialist with Iowa State University Extension and Outreach, offers tips for understanding children's reactions and helping them cope. Thursday, May 26, 2022 - 10:37 Help Yourself Cope in the Aftermath of Mass Shootings David Brown Many people have experienced anguish and distress related to the reports of recent mass shootings prominently featured in the news and on social media. David Brown, behavioral health state specialist with Iowa State University Extension and Outreach, offers tips for understanding and coping with the reactions these shootings may evoke. Wednesday, May 25, 2022 - 14:30 Beef Quality Assurance Transportation Workshops begin June 14 Beth Doran To help beef cattle transporters renew or obtain new Beef Quality Assurance Transportation certification, Iowa State University Extension and Outreach will offer workshops beginning June 14. Read More News Select LanguageEnglishSpanish Connect with Extension Locate a County Office Follow us on Twitter Find us on Facebook Follow us on Instagram Find us on Linked In Find us on YouTube View our Pinterest boards View our Social Media Directory Blogs Ask a Question Hotlines Tweets by @ISUExtension Celebrating 100 Years in Every County Our Story Thank You video See all "Strong Iowa" articles Annual Report Extension Store Explore the Extension Store for publications and multimedia on many topics. Browse the Store Support ISU Extension Primary Links Block Home Disaster Recovery Events Conference Planning Statewide Calendar Upcoming Conferences Educational Areas 4-H Youth Development Agriculture and Natural Resources Community & Economic Development Human Sciences About Us About ISU Extension County Services Faculty and Staff Directory County Services Finance Finance Diversity and Civil Rights Jobs Leadership Team Office of the Vice President Professional Development Program Development and Evaluation Iowa State University Extension and Outreach, (800) 262-3804, 2150 Beardshear Hall, Ames, IA 50011-2031 Copyright © 2022 Iowa State University | Contact Us | Policies | State & National Extension Partners | For Staff | Website Log In