Skip to content Columbia University Irving Medical Center Find People Events Faculty and Staff Resources Give Now Search About Us About Us Facts and Figures Explore CUIMC Events Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion at CUIMC Community Development and Alumni Explore CUIMC Leadership and Administration A-Z Listing Affiliated Hospitals Campus Map and Directions Campus Resources Contact CUIMC Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion At CUIMC, we are committed to continuous improvement in providing culturally inclusive medical education and clinical care. Learn About Our Commitment Education Education Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons Mailman School of Public Health School of Nursing College of Dental Medicine VP&S Columbia Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons is dedicated to developing the next generation of leaders in medicine Learn About Our Academic Programs Research Research The Louisa Gross Horwitz Prize Columbia Technology Ventures Research Administration Columbia Clinical Innovation Lab Patient Care Patient Care ColumbiaDoctors Children's Health Columbia Primary Care Herbert Irving Comprehensive Cancer Center ColumbiaDoctors Dentistry Digital Health Services at Columbia Find a Doctor Search for a provider by specialty, expertise, location and insurance. Schedule an appointment online. Find a Doctor News News For the Media Share Your News CUIMC Update CUIMC Celebrates Columbia Medicine Read the latest news stories about CUIMC faculty, research, and events Explore Our News COVID-19 Resources for CUIMC COVID-19 Resources for CUIMC COVID-19 Information for Patients COVID-19 Campus Safety for Employees and Students COVID-19 Vaccine Information For CUIMC Employees and Students COVID-19 Information and Resources for Clinical Staff COVID-19 Vaccine Information Learn about COVID-19 vaccine availability and requirements for employees and students at CUIMC Get the Latest Information Neuroscience Topics Campus News Research Medical School Public Health Cancer Mental Health Infectious Diseases Neurology Neuroscience Education Heart Health Pediatrics View All Topics Search All News Keywords News Top Stories Missing Link Between Alzheimer’s and Vascular Disease Found? A gene called FMNL2 may explain why people with hypertension, diabetes, heart disease, or obesity have a greater risk of developing Alzheimer's disease. Topic Neurology Turbocharger for Memory Found in Brain Cells of Mice A new Columbia study shows that the movement of calcium within neurons boosts learning, revealing a basic principle of memory encoding in the brain. Common Thread May Cause Many Neurodegenerative Diseases A newly discovered protein tangle has been associated with multiple neurodegenerative diseases and may have a role in causing the diseases. Topic Neurology What Causes Loss of Smell in COVID? Loss of smell in COVID may be caused by a dramatic rearrangement of chromosomes in the cells that connect the nose to the brain, a study by Columbia neuroscientists suggests. Latest News Like Tiny Drill Sergeants, Neurons Identified in Spinal Cord Coordinate Our Steps January 20, 2022 Just a single type of neuron controls the complex patterns of walking, a surprising finding that may lead to new therapeutic approaches for people with spinal cord injuries. How The Brain’s Memory Center Filters Out Unimportant Details December 8, 2021 A study in mice that sheds light on how the brain remembers key details could one day help treat disorders impacting memory. The New Theory of "Muscle Memory" November 30, 2021 A new theory explains how the brain creates and recalls motor memories and could lead to better physical therapies to help people with injuries use their bodies again. Why are Humans So Good at Learning? October 28, 2021 The answer may lie in a gene only present in humans. When expressed in mice, the gene increases the number of connections in the brain and improves the ability to learn complex tasks. Columbia Scientists and Team of International Experts Awarded $9M to Investigate Early Parkinson's October 27, 2021 New technology will allow scientists to uncover what happens in the brain during the early stages of Parkinson's disease, which could lead to earlier diagnosis and better therapies for the disease. Topic Neurology Loss of Placental Hormone Linked to Brain and Social Behavior Changes August 16, 2021 A new preclinical study provides the first direct evidence that loss of a placental hormone during pregnancy alters long-term brain development, causing autism-like behaviors in male offspring. Topic Pediatrics Some Bird Brains Have Dense Network of Memory Cells July 16, 2021 Even though bird brains look very different from ours, a Columbia study of birds is providing evidence that both work in the same way when storing spatial memories. It’s True: Stress Does Turn Hair Gray (And It’s Reversible) June 22, 2021 A new study from researchers at Columbia University is the first to quantitatively link psychological stress to graying hair in people and find that the process is reversible. Topic Aging Omega-3s May Hold Key to Unlocking Blood-Brain Barrier June 16, 2021 Spectacular images of a molecule that shuttles omega-3 fatty acids into the brain may open a doorway for delivering neurological therapeutics to the brain. Topic Campus News Alzheimer's: New Treatment Idea Targets Tau May 26, 2021 A new idea for treating Alzheimer’s disease could eradicate the toxic proteins most closely linked to cognitive decline in the places where they do the most damage. Pages 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 … next last Columbia University Irving Medical Center NewYork-Presbyterian About Us Careers News Education Patient Care Research Resources at CUIMC Columbia University Irving Medical Center 630 West 168th Street New York, NY 10032 United States Follow Us Facebook Twitter YouTube LinkedIn Instagram Back to top