Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Apply Programs Campus Life Resources News Support UofM Lambuth Contact Us Follow UsFacebooktwitter Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact Home UofM Lambuth Admissions Campus Visit Guidelines Admissions About Lambuth Submit Your Application Schedule a Tour Schedule a Group Tour COVID-19 Visitor Guidelines New Student Orientation Tuition & Fees FAQs Take Action Lambuth Admissions Lambuth Academy News & Events Contact Us Schedule A Tour We’re so glad you’re interested in the University of Memphis Lambuth and can’t wait to have you on our campus in Jackson, Tennessee! Please review the following health guidelines before registering for a campus visit. Health Requirements and Guidelines for Visits The health and safety of our campus community is of the utmost importance. While UofM Lambuth is taking precautions to safeguard our community, we cannot eliminate the risk of COVID-19 exposure and infection on campus. Therefore, we have implemented additional guidelines applicable to campus visits. Please review the following information and consult the UofM Coronavirus Updates webpage for the most up-to-date guidelines and communications. Visitors are also encouraged to consult the travel information listed on the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) website. This resource may be helpful as you consider your travel plans in combination with public health best practices. Additionally, please consult the Tennessee Department of Health for state updates. Advance Registration Required All visitors must register 72 hours in advance of arriving at UofM Lambuth. Campus tours are limited to one (1) prospective student and two (2) guests, and this capacity limit will be strictly enforced. Unfortunately, walk-in requests will not be considered. Register for a campus visit > At this time, campus tours will be limited to outdoor spaces. Residence halls and the interiors of campus buildings will not be included as a part of the visit experience. But the good news is that our virtual tours do a great job of showing off these spaces, so simply watch online to get a great sense of what it’s like here. Visitor Requirements To ensure the health and safety of visitors and UofM Lambuth staff, the following requirements are in place for campus visits: All visitors must wear a mask or other face-covering that covers both the nose and the mouth while on campus. Social distancing will be practiced on tours, with a minimum of 6 feet of distance between traveling groups. Visitors will be required to complete an on-site health screen upon arrival on campus at Wilder Tower. Answering ‘YES’ to any of the health screening questions will result in the cancellation of your campus tour. All visitors must comply with the University of Memphis COVID-19 Health and Safety Policy which contains more detailed information about face coverings, social distancing, and safe hygiene practices. Please review this policy prior to coming to campus. Visitors should also perform a symptom assessment prior to coming to campus. Please do not visit campus if you are not feeling well, are exhibiting symptoms, or have been in contact with someone who has tested positive for COVID-19. Group Tours We welcome school and community groups to campus. High school groups are offered a 60-minute guided campus tour led by a student tour guide, and we offer an engaging scavenger hunt for all our elementary and middle school aged visitors. Visits are coordinated on a first come, first served basis. It’s recommended that groups submit their visit requests at least 4 weeks in advance for the best chance at reserving their preferred visit date and time. During high-volume visit time periods, we encourage you to submit your visit request at least three months in advance. Schedule a Group Tour > Visit Experience Check-In Process On the day of your scheduled campus visit, please check in for your on-campus experience no more than 10 minutes prior to your visit time. You can do so at the welcome desk located in Varnell-Jones Hall (705 Lambuth Blvd, Jackson, TN 38301). At the time of check-in, you will be required to complete a health screen. If you answer‘YES’ to any of the health screening questions, you will be required to reschedule your tour. Parking There are many parking options on campus. If you are coming for a guided campus tour, it is recommended that you park in semi-circle drive located in front of Varnell-Jones Hall (705 Lambuth Blvd, Jackson, TN 38301). Varnell-Jones Hall is listed as 705 on the campus map. View additional directions to the Lambuth campus > After the Visit Although the University is taking precautions to ensure the safety of visitors to our campus, the risk of COVID-19 exposure and infection cannot be eliminated on campus. Any participant on a campus tour who exhibits symptoms and/or tests positive for COVID-19 within a week of visiting campus, should immediately contact the University of Memphis Dean of Students Office at deanofstudents@memphis.edu or 901.678.2187. Schedule a Campus Visit > Schedule a Group Tour > Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 3/28/22 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.