Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. Learning Commons Learning Commons right arrow down arrow Schedule a Service Programs and Policies right arrow down arrow Academic Coaching right arrow down arrow Meet the Academic Coaches Academic Writing Center right arrow down arrow Meet the Tutors Graduate Tutoring Learning Assistants Learning Communities right arrow down arrow Peer Leader Program Current Peer Leaders Current Peer Leader Coordinators Math & Science Support Center Peer Facilitation right arrow down arrow Current Peer Facilitators Current Peer Facilitator Coordinators Peer Tutoring Success Skills Workshops right arrow down arrow Step by Step Guide to Register Success Skills Workshop Policies Success Skills Workshop Topics Supplemental Instruction right arrow down arrow SI Schedule Supplemental Review Sessions (MATH 1096) Learning Resources right arrow down arrow Note-Taking and Test Strategies right arrow down arrow The Cornell Method for Note-Taking Reading for Main Ideas vs. Details SQ4R: Getting the Most from Your Textbooks PLAN: An Active Reading Strategy How to Ace Your Finals Learning Styles and Study Habits right arrow down arrow Strategies for Aural Learners Strategies for Kinesthetic Learners Strategies for Visual Learners Writing Resources Business Writing Materials right arrow down arrow Resume Writing Tips Cover Letter Tips Memo Writing Tips First-Year Students right arrow down arrow First Semester Checklist Achieve Your Goal GPA Technology Skills Anxiety, Attitude, and Stress right arrow down arrow Managing Stress New Concentration Ideas Look at Your Classes to Find Your Passion Defining Your Career Goals Math Minute right arrow down arrow Math Minute - Algebra Math Minute - Calculus Online Learning Strategies Student Employment right arrow down arrow Academic Coaching Positions Academic Writing Center Positions Front Desk Assistant Positions Learning Assistant Positions Learning Community Peer Leader Positions Peer Facilitator Positions Peer Tutoring Positions Success Skills Workshop Positions Supplemental Instruction Leader Positions SRS Leader & MASS Tutor Positions Professional Staff Home » Campus Life » Learning Commons » Learning Resources » Note-Taking and Test Strategies » How to Ace Your Finals Set Navigation title in component Note-Taking and Test Strategies The Cornell Method for Note-Taking Reading for Main Ideas vs. Details SQ4R: Getting the Most from Your Textbooks PLAN: An Active Reading Strategy How to Ace Your Finals Learning Styles and Study Habits Strategies for Aural Learners Strategies for Kinesthetic Learners Strategies for Visual Learners Writing Resources Business Writing Materials Resume Writing Tips Cover Letter Tips Memo Writing Tips First-Year Students First Semester Checklist Achieve Your Goal GPA Technology Skills Anxiety, Attitude, and Stress Managing Stress New Concentration Ideas Look at Your Classes to Find Your Passion Defining Your Career Goals Math Minute Math Minute - Algebra Math Minute - Calculus Online Learning Strategies How to Ace Your Finals Do's Take Breaks. A good starting point is a 10-minute break for every 50 minutes of studying. You can break it down even further to a 5-minute break for every 25 minutes of studying. Breaks are essential because they give our brains a brief amount of time to recover, allowing us to chain smaller chunks of studying together and, in turn, study longer. Diversify. Research shows that we retain information better when we learn it in different ways, because we have to work to understand it in unfamiliar formats. Read your textbooks and note cards aloud, teach material to a friend, and study in different locations or at different times of the day. Test Yourself. An exam is one big recall exercise. Use recall exercises in your studies to simulate the way you will have to recall information for the exam. Try online practice tests, questions in your textbook, and flashcards. Writing out flashcards is the best way to cement them in your mind, but Quizlet.com is great if you need to save time. Use Spaced Repetition. Studying 1 hour of biology each day for 3 days is much more effective than studying for 3 hours in 1 day because it increases the number of times information has to be recalled. If you have 3 exams, spend 1 hour studying for each exam, instead of 3 hours for just 1 exam. Keep Perspective. Data tells us that deemphasizing the importance of exams makes students perform better. Remember, this exam is not a measure of your intelligence, but of how much information you can recall that day. Life will go on, regardless of the outcome of the exam. Put in the hours and then let it be as it will be Dont's Don't Just Reread. There’s a second part to it. Research shows that rereading your text can falsely inflate your sense of learning and understanding. Try reading a passage and then writing out everything that you can recall from memory, or reviewing your lecture notes and then taking a practice test without looking at them. What we practice recalling today becomes more “recallable” in the future. Don't Highlight. Highlighting your text can fool your mind into thinking you are putting something in your brain, when all you’re really doing is moving your hand. Try to utilize more active study techniques like flashcards, practice tests, and redoing old tests or quizzes. Don't Cram. Would you try to bench-press 300 pounds your first time at the gym? Would you enter a 5k if you had not run since high school gym class? Your brain is like a muscle, and it can only handle so much exercise in one subject at a time. Plan accordingly and start studying well in advance, giving your brain time to organize and store all of the information you’re reviewing. Don't Overcaffeinate. Skip the espresso-laden coffee spiked with Red Bull on exam day. The safest bet is to maintain your typical caffeine intake and avoid any drastic changes the day of the exam. Also remember to stay hydrated—studies show that losing just 2% of your water stores can lead to reduced memory and mental “haziness”. Don't Pull All-Nighters. Many students treat all-nighters like a badge of honor. Let’s change that this semester. Research shows that increasing sleep from 6 or fewer hours to 8 or more hours can increase memory and alertness by 25%! If you do not get a good night’s sleep before a test, nothing else you will have done to prepare will matter! Additional Resources The resources below were used to compile this page. These resources provide useful strategies for test preparation and exam performance. Belluck, Pam. “To Really Learn, Quit Studying and Take a Test”. New York Times 20 January 2011. Web. 20 November 2014. Glenn, David. “Close the Book. Recall. Write it Down”. Chronicle of Higher Education 01 May 2009. Web. 20 November 2014. Oakley, Barbara. A Mind for Numbers: How to Excel in Math and Science (Even If You Flunked Algebra). New York: Tarcher, 2014. Print. Paul, Annie Murphy. “The Secret to Grace Under Pressure”. Time 28 March 2012. Web. 20 November 2014. Willis, Judy. “It’s Smart to Sleep”. Psychology Today 06 May 2012. Web. 20 November 2014. Learning Commons 2510B French Hall West 513-556-3244 Fax: 513-556-0823 learningcommons@uc.edu UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati Learning Commons 2510B French Hall West 513-556-3244 Fax: 513-556-0823 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top