Skip to Main Content Brown University News from Brown Site Navigation Featured Events For Journalists Search Menu Date February 8, 2022 2022-02-08 Media Contact Kevin Stacey [email protected] 401-863-3766 All News Share Facebook Twitter Linkedin Email Brown professor wins CERF Medical Engineering Prize for ‘Braingate+SoftRobotics’ project Dr. Leigh Hochberg is part of an award-winning team that is combining soft robotic devices with brain-computer interface technology to help people with ALS. Leigh Hochberg PROVIDENCE, R.I. [Brown University] — The Cullen Education and Research Fund has awarded the inaugural CERF Medical Engineering Prize for ALS Research to the members of BrainGate+SoftRobotics, a research team based at Brown University, Harvard University and Massachusetts General Hospital. The team is creating a series of technologies intended to improve arm and hand function for people with muscle weakness and paralysis, including people with amyotrophic lateral sclerosis. The honor is accompanied by a monetary award of 500,000 euros, which team members Dr. Leigh Hochberg from Brown and MGH, Dr. Sabrina Paganoni from MGH and Conor Walsh from Harvard have designated for distribution to their institutions to support their collaborative research. ALS, also known as motor neuron disease or Lou Gehrig’s disease, leads to the injury and loss of neurons in the brain and spinal cord, leading to paralysis. The CERF Medical Engineering Prize was established to recognize outstanding research and to encourage the development of technologies that maintain or restore function of the arm and hand for people with ALS. “We are delighted to announce the BrainGate+SoftRobotics team as the winner of this year’s CERF Engineering Prize,” said Hazel Cullen, manager of the CERF prize. “This important and groundbreaking work will change the lives of those living with ALS by giving them back some of the independence that is taken away by this awful disease.” The winning team is working together to create wearable soft robotics that maintain the function of the arm and hand, and can be controlled entirely by a person’s intention to move. The soft robotic system, already in development, can detect subtle movements — for example, the partial flexion of an index finger — and pneumatically actuate a glove that quietly and smoothly completes the closing of the hand to grasp a coffee cup. The research team is working to combine the soft robotic technology with the investigational BrainGate system, a tiny array of electrodes that can sense and decode signals from the brain’s motor cortex. The team aims to use signals from the brain to drive the soft robotics, restoring people’s ability to reach and grasp. “On behalf of our BrainGate team, I’m so grateful to the Cullen Family for their visionary and engaged support of research to help people with ALS,” said Hochberg, a professor in Brown’s School of Engineering, a researcher in the Carney Institute for Brain Science and director of the BrainGate clinical trial. “Brain-computer interfaces, including the system being developed by our BrainGate consortium, hold tremendous potential to restore communication and mobility for people with paralysis. Together with Conor and his incredible lab, we are working every day to, quite literally, turn thought into action.” By combining a brain-computer interface system with soft robotics, the team hopes to further expand the promise of neural prosthetic technology. “Soft robotics can quietly, smoothly and unobtrusively provide for either rehabilitation or restorative function for people with ALS, stroke or spinal cord injury,” said Walsh, a professor at Harvard’s John A. Paulson School of Engineering and Applied Sciences. “Watching and listening to end users evaluate our soft robotic systems is incredibly inspiring. Their ideas and feedback continue to push the technology further and faster with an unyielding focus on developing portable systems that restore highest priority functions for people with tetraplegia. Our work with the BrainGate team is leading to a palette of coordinated technologies that will provide the right amount of assistance at the right moment for people with ALS.” Paganoni, a physician-scientist at the Healey & AMG Center for ALS at MGH, thanked clinical trial participants for playing a crucial role in developing new approaches to helping people with ALS. “We are grateful to all people living with paralysis who choose to participate in these ongoing clinical trials,” she said. “It’s only through their generous efforts that we can discover and develop such revolutionary technologies.” CAUTION: Investigational Device. Limited by Federal law to investigational use. Tags Carney Institute Research School of Engineering Related news: News and Events Brown Corporation elects two new fellows, eight trustees June 1, 2022 Brown’s governing body elected each new member based on their commitment to the University and its mission of education and research. Read Article Open details for Brown Corporation elects two new fellows, eight trustees News and Events Brown Corporation approves base budget for Fiscal Year 2023 June 1, 2022 The $1.5 billion base budget includes deep investments in student financial aid and support for faculty and staff, balancing continued advancement in academic excellence with a focus on long-term financial sustainability. Read Article Open details for Brown Corporation approves base budget for Fiscal Year 2023 News and Events In three ceremonies, medical, doctoral and master’s graduates celebrate hard-earned degrees May 29, 2022 In addresses at Brown’s Commencement ceremonies on Sunday, May 29, student speakers entreated their peers to make a positive impact using lessons they had learned during the COVID-19 pandemic. Read Article Open details for In three ceremonies, medical, doctoral and master’s graduates celebrate hard-earned degrees Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown Social Navigation Facebook Instagram LinkedIn Snapchat Twitter YouTube Social Media Directory © Brown University Brown University For You Current Students Faculty Staff Parents & Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Featured Events For Journalists Topics Arts and Humanities Environment Health and Medicine News and Events Science and Technology Social Sciences Student Life University Initiatives Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation About Events For You Give to Brown All of Brown.edu People News Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Brown professor wins CERF Medical Engineering Prize for ‘Braingate+SoftRobotics’ project Open details for Brown professor wins CERF Medical Engineering Prize for ‘Braingate+SoftRobotics’ project Bookmark this Page