Texas Tech University Directory Raiderlink A-Z Index University Student Housing Menu Search TTU Housing Facilities Services The facilities team is comprised of approximately 150 full-time employees that together have more than 2,000 collective years of experience working for University Student Housing. In-house, this team is broken up into several different professional areas listed below. Each area embodies the department motto, here to serve students, every day as they work to keep all 19 residence halls safe, clean, and in top condition. Drew Jahr is the Associate Managing Director for Facilities Services. Carpentry The Carpentry Shop oversees most in-hall building ventures, including cabinets, beds, dressers, doors, vanities, walls, ceilings, and more. They specialize in wood craftsmanship but assist with larger projects with various materials. Electric and Fire Shop Electric and Fire Shop oversees not only breakers, lights, and smoke detectors, but also the electrical integrity of our building equipment, the fire systems throughout our halls, and any wires behind the walls. Electric and Fire Shop has a partnership with the Texas Tech Fire Marshal's office. Electronic Security and Access Systems Electronic Security and Access Systems Shop oversee all key traffic, security cameras, and card readers for the residence halls. This shop also makes and repairs all pathway signage, room numbers, etc. within the residence halls. Equipment Repair The Equipment Repair Team is dedicated to maintaining the condition of all washers, dryers, vacuum cleaners, floor cleaners, fleet vehicles, golf carts, power tools, warehouse equipment, paint sprayers, and more for the facilities area. Facility Coordinators The Facility Coordinators provide after-hours responses to facilities issues in the halls in order to provide both permanent and temporary solutions to provide a quicker response and better customer service for our students. Heating, Ventilation & Air Conditioning (HVAC) Heating, Ventilation & Air Conditioning (HVAC) Shop works with campus-maintained systems to ensure residents have heat and cooling throughout the year. There are various systems in each complex that are unique to the building, but the HVAC crew is able to troubleshoot and assist with issues across the board. Housekeeping Housekeeping maintains and cleans all residence hall public areas during occupancy periods, including lobbies, restrooms, laundry rooms, hallways, and more. Each building has its own team of housekeepers trained to keep the halls clean and ready for residents. Inspection and Exterior Maintenance Our Inspection and Exterior Maintenance Team addresses any health and safety concerns, including mold and roof inspections, working closely with the Physical Plant and also Environmental Health & Safety and roofing contractors. Interior Design Interior Design develops renovation plans from behind the walls to the furniture at the end, all of which are coordinated with contractors, architects, and in-house trades. Maintenance The Maintenance team is the group of skilled tradespersons assigned to individual residence halls responsible for upkeep and repairs in their complex. Together, they respond to and complete over 11,000 work orders every year. Paint The Paint Shop is responsible for the final touches on over 2.3 million square feet of aesthetic surfaces in the residence halls. They address normal wear and tear as well as major repairs. Plumbing The Plumbing Shop responds to concerns with water temperature, water flow, and major fixture issues. They address issues by repairing equipment, replacing water lines, and checking system components. Pest Control Pest Control responds to typical issues of ants, bugs, and other pests, however, it is also very focused on prevention and education on pests to keep them out of our halls as much as possible. Pest control is also responsible for all bed bug treatments. Tile The Tile Shop oversees all repairs involving tile, but specifically shower renovations. They coordinate all major repairs with various trades from studs to finishing touches. Upholstery The Upholstery Shop is responsible for maintaining all fabric surfaces within the residence halls, including chairs, sofas, bolsters, and more. Warehouse Team The Warehouse Team is responsible for ordering, receiving, delivering, and storing supplies for all facilities areas, as well as ensuring that any donation items or abandoned property is addressed in a timely manner. Work Control and Purchasing Work Control and Purchasing is the central communication hub of the Facilities area, responsible for turning FixIts into work orders and assigning them to technicians to complete. They're also the central contact point for Facilities purchasing and payment processes. University Student Housing - Staff Directory University Student Housing Like University Student Housing on FacebookLike University Student Housing on Facebook Follow University Student Housing on twitterFollow University Student Housing on twitter Subscribe to University Student Housing on YouTubeSubscribe to University Student Housing on YouTube Follow University Student Housing on FlickrFollow University Student Housing on Flickr Follow University Student Housing on PinterestFollow University Student Housing on Pinterest Follow University Student Housing on InstagramFollow University Student Housing on Instagram Address Wiggins Complex, 3211 18th St., Box 41141, Lubbock, TX 79409 Phone (806) 742-2661 | Fax: (806) 742-2696 Email housing@ttu.edu Texas Tech University 2500 Broadway Lubbock, Texas 79409 806.742.2011 Follow Texas Tech University Like Texas Tech University on FacebookLike Texas Tech University on Facebook Follow Texas Tech University on twitterFollow Texas Tech University on twitter Check in with Texas Tech University on FourSquareCheck in with Texas Tech University on FourSquare Subscribe to Texas Tech University on YouTubeSubscribe to Texas Tech University on YouTube Follow Texas Tech University on FlickrFollow Texas Tech University on Flickr Follow Texas Tech University on InstagramFollow Texas Tech University on Instagram Connect with Texas Tech University on LinkedInConnect with Texas Tech University on LinkedIn Contact Texas Tech UniversityContact Texas Tech University Contact Us Campus Map Jobs @ TTU Emergency Communication Center General Policy Information Public Access to Course Info Energy Management Mental Health Resources Title IX Fraud and Misconduct Hotline Online Institutional Resumes TTU System TTU Health Sciences Center TTUHSC El Paso Angelo State University Midwestern State University Statewide Search State of Texas Texas Homeland Security Texas Veterans Portal Texas CREWS SAO Fraud Reporting Open Records Requests © 2022 Texas Tech UniversityJan 5, 2022 1:06 PM University Student Housing Housing Sign Up Information University Student Housing Housing Sign Up Information Back Sign Up Information University Student Housing Housing Sign Up Information Sign Up Information Back Sign up for Housing Contract Information Off Campus Eligibility Red Raider Express Pass Residence Hall Selection Guide Room Availability Report Prospective Students University Student Housing Prospective Students Back Residence Hall Information University Student Housing Prospective Students Residence Hall Information Back Residence Hall Selection Guide Virtual Brochure Off Campus Eligibility Flex Housing Move In/ Move Out Red Raider Express Pass Room Change Housing Rates University Student Housing Prospective Students Housing Rates Back Housing Rates Rate Calculator Deposit and Billing Information About TTU University Student Housing Prospective Students About TTU Back Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Spirit & Traditions All Student Organizations Student Recreation Current Residents University Student Housing Current Residents Back My Housing University Student Housing Current Residents My Housing Back Hall Addresses and Mailing information FixIT Maintenance Request View Roommate and Dining Plan Move In/ Move Out Holiday Break Information Room Change Hospitality Services University Student Housing Current Residents Hospitality Services Back University ID Change Dining Plan Get Involved University Student Housing Current Residents Get Involved Back Student Organizations Social Justice Advocates Residence Hall Association Events University Student Housing Current Residents Events Back Carol of Lights® Professing Excellence Safe Treat Tunnel of Awareness End of the Year Banquet MLK Celebration Student Services University Student Housing Current Residents Student Services Back Academic Improvement Plan Housing Scholarships Residential Tutoring About Us University Student Housing About Us Back Leadership Team University Student Housing About Us Leadership Team Back Staff Directory Housing Areas University Student Housing About Us Housing Areas Back Administration and Business Services Facilities Services Residence Life Work for Housing Services and Resources University Student Housing About Us Services and Resources Back Conference Services Marketing Request Form Solicitation Form IT Helpdesk Additional Resources TTU HomeDirectory Raiderlink A-Z Index