Skip navigation Information For: Current Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Brown University About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life A to Z Index People Directory The College Support for Faculty & Advisors Academic Advising Meals With Your Advisees Meals With Your Advisees Sitting down to a meal is a powerful way to cement social and academic bonds with your advisees. The College has set aside funds for just this purpose. First-year and sophomore advisors can have lunch with their advisees once per year at the Faculty Club or at a local restaurant or can invite students to their home for a meal. Information about reservations, meal options, and reimbursement is below. Advisors who dine with their advisees are asked to fill out the Meal Form and to submit it along with any receipts for reimbursement to the DOC. All COVID-19 safety policies must be followed. Advisors who serve as both first-year and sophomore advisors may take each group of advisees to lunch. If you would prefer to meet your advisees each semester, we encourage you to consider treating them to coffee or tea. Lunch at the Faculty Club Call the Faculty Club at x3-3023 for a reservation and be sure to mention you are with the College First-Year or Sophomore Advising Program. The Faculty Club has the account number on file. The College takes care of the bill; there is no need to submit a receipt. Lunch at a local restaurant The College will reimburse your expenses at a rate of $12.00 per person (including Advisor, Meiklejohns, and first-year students) per year. Meiklejohns are not allowed to host meals without the advisor being present. Reimbursements can only be made when receipts are submitted along with the Meal Form. A meal at your home While advisees appreciate a meal anywhere with their advisors, dining at their advisor's home is particularly special. The College will reimburse up to $12.00 per person for a meal at your house. Again, please submit receipts for purchases along with the Meal Form. As a reminder, all COVID-19 safety policies must be followed. Related Files Advisor Meal Form 21-22.pdf Home Academic Advising Concentration Advising Meals with Your Advisees Advising for Foreign Languages Advising in the Sciences Advising Students Navigating Difficulty Teaching and Curriculum Faculty Prizes Print this Page Share this Page Dean of the College Brown University Box 1828 Providence, RI 02912 Phone 401-863-9800 Shibboleth login Shibboleth Login Quick Links Calendar There are no upcoming events. Brown University Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-1000 Maps & Directions / Contact Us / Accessibility © 2022 Brown University Connect: [email protected] Facebook Twitter YouTube iTunes U Google+ LinkedIn RSS Futurity Resources A to Z Index Career Opportunities Make a Gift People Directory Custom Footer 1 WebServices BrownSites Documentation BrownSites Demo Custom Footer 2 Your Custom Links PAUR Media Relations Web Style Guide