Utah State University sites use cookies. By continuing to use this site you accept our privacy and cookie policy. I agree Skip to content Apply Visit Give Calendar A-Z Index Directory Libraries QUICK LINKS MyUSU SEARCH Calendar Close search Search Utah State University: I want to search All USU sites People Search terms Submit search × Calendar Open main menu Close Open search Events Calendar Academic Calendar Holiday Calendar FAQ Quick Links Close Quick Links Apply Visit Give Calendar A-Z Index Directory Libraries MyUSU Upcoming Events 30 May Memorial Day Academic Calendar | Summer Semester No classes. All Day | Utah State University | More Info 30 May Memorial Day Holidays | Holiday Calendar USU will be closed May 30 2022 in observance of Memorial Day. All Day | Utah State University | More Info 30 May Native American STEM Mentorship Program (NASMP) Workshop/Training USU Blanding students will be going up to Logan campus for a four-week session of STEM classes. Sponsored by NASNTI, AIS, and MESA 8:00 am - 5:00 pm | Utah State University Campus | More Info 31 May Native American STEM Mentorship Program (NASMP) Workshop/Training USU Blanding students will be going up to Logan campus for a four-week session of STEM classes. Sponsored by NASNTI, AIS, and MESA 8:00 am - 5:00 pm | Utah State University Campus | More Info 31 May Boy's & Girls Basketball - Day Camp Sports Camp will include session working with Coach Warburton and Coach Nelson on skill development and a variety of game speed drills. 8:00 am - 3:00 pm | More Info 31 May Lineage II Arts/Entertainment Lineage II showcases work created by Cache Valley teachers and students. The exhibition includes a variety of mediums, including painting, prints, digital photography, ceramics, and mixed media works. The show will be open Tuesday 10 AM – 6 PM and Saturday 10 AM – 4 PM, with a reception on May 26, 5 – 7 PM. 10:00 am - 6:00 pm | Chase Fine Arts Center, Tipetts and Eccles Galleries | More Info 31 May Mindfulness Meditation | Sitting in breath and presence Recreation FREE REGISTRATION: https://bit.ly/mindfulnessandmeditationweekly Mindfulness is a type of meditation in which you focus on being intensely aware of what you're sensing and feeling in the moment, without interpretation or judgment. Practicing mindfulness involves breathing methods, guided imagery, and other practices to relax the body and mind and help reduce stress. Mindfulness meditation has been proven to support various health conditions - stress, anxiety, pain, depression, insomnia, high blood pressure, fibromyalgia, and more - and help you experience thoughts and emotions with greater balance and acceptance, improve attentiveness, and relieve burnout. Practicing self care through mindfulness and meditation can help you relax and focus on what is most important - your overall wellness. This is a weekly, online wellness series hosted by the Utah State University Office of Health Equity and Community Engagement and Tribal & Rural Opioid Initiative Resource Center. 7:30 pm - 8:10 pm | Online/Virtual | More Info 01 Jun Boy's & Girls Basketball - Day Camp Sports Camp will include session working with Coach Warburton and Coach Nelson on skill development and a variety of game speed drills. 8:00 am - 3:00 pm | More Info 01 Jun Native American STEM Mentorship Program (NASMP) Workshop/Training USU Blanding students will be going up to Logan campus for a four-week session of STEM classes. Sponsored by NASNTI, AIS, and MESA 8:00 am - 5:00 pm | Utah State University Campus | More Info 01 Jun Lineage II Arts/Entertainment Lineage II showcases work created by Cache Valley teachers and students. The exhibition includes a variety of mediums, including painting, prints, digital photography, ceramics, and mixed media works. The show will be open Tuesday 10 AM – 6 PM and Saturday 10 AM – 4 PM, with a reception on May 26, 5 – 7 PM. 10:00 am - 6:00 pm | Chase Fine Arts Center, Tipetts and Eccles Galleries | More Info 02 Jun Native American STEM Mentorship Program (NASMP) Workshop/Training USU Blanding students will be going up to Logan campus for a four-week session of STEM classes. Sponsored by NASNTI, AIS, and MESA 8:00 am - 5:00 pm | Utah State University Campus | More Info 02 Jun Boy's & Girls Basketball - Day Camp Sports Camp will include session working with Coach Warburton and Coach Nelson on skill development and a variety of game speed drills. 8:00 am - 3:00 pm | More Info 02 Jun USU & You Radio Program Panel Discussion/Presentation Community engagement, discussion, and information sharing. 9:00 am - 9:30 am | More Info 02 Jun Lineage II Arts/Entertainment Lineage II showcases work created by Cache Valley teachers and students. The exhibition includes a variety of mediums, including painting, prints, digital photography, ceramics, and mixed media works. The show will be open Tuesday 10 AM – 6 PM and Saturday 10 AM – 4 PM, with a reception on May 26, 5 – 7 PM. 10:00 am - 6:00 pm | Chase Fine Arts Center, Tipetts and Eccles Galleries | More Info 02 Jun R.A.D. Basic Physical Defense for Women Workshop/Training Month-long course( June 2-July 7) designed to develop and enhance the options of self-defense, so they may become viable considerations to the woman who is attacked. Students learn how to use personal weapons against abduction. We follow the curriculum of Rape, Aggression, Defense (R.A.D.) R.A.D. is the largest network of its kind with over 11,000 Instructors receiving training in our systems to date. These Instructors teach at various colleges, universities, and municipal law enforcement agencies as well as various other community organizations internationally. R.A.D. has trained more than 900,000 women since the program began in 1989. Register at recportal.usu.edu under Health and Safety. 11:00 am - 12:30 pm | Aggie Recreation Center (ARC) | More Info 03 Jun Native American STEM Mentorship Program (NASMP) Workshop/Training USU Blanding students will be going up to Logan campus for a four-week session of STEM classes. Sponsored by NASNTI, AIS, and MESA 8:00 am - 5:00 pm | Utah State University Campus | More Info 03 Jun Lineage II Arts/Entertainment Lineage II showcases work created by Cache Valley teachers and students. The exhibition includes a variety of mediums, including painting, prints, digital photography, ceramics, and mixed media works. The show will be open Tuesday 10 AM – 6 PM and Saturday 10 AM – 4 PM, with a reception on May 26, 5 – 7 PM. 10:00 am - 6:00 pm | Chase Fine Arts Center, Tipetts and Eccles Galleries | More Info 04 Jun Native American STEM Mentorship Program (NASMP) Workshop/Training USU Blanding students will be going up to Logan campus for a four-week session of STEM classes. Sponsored by NASNTI, AIS, and MESA 8:00 am - 5:00 pm | Utah State University Campus | More Info 04 Jun Lineage II Arts/Entertainment Lineage II showcases work created by Cache Valley teachers and students. The exhibition includes a variety of mediums, including painting, prints, digital photography, ceramics, and mixed media works. The show will be open Tuesday 10 AM – 6 PM and Saturday 10 AM – 4 PM, with a reception on May 26, 5 – 7 PM. 10:00 am - 6:00 pm | Chase Fine Arts Center, Tipetts and Eccles Galleries | More Info 05 Jun Native American STEM Mentorship Program (NASMP) Workshop/Training USU Blanding students will be going up to Logan campus for a four-week session of STEM classes. Sponsored by NASNTI, AIS, and MESA 8:00 am - 5:00 pm | Utah State University Campus | More Info 06 Jun Native American STEM Mentorship Program (NASMP) Workshop/Training USU Blanding students will be going up to Logan campus for a four-week session of STEM classes. Sponsored by NASNTI, AIS, and MESA 8:00 am - 5:00 pm | Utah State University Campus | More Info 06 Jun USU Eastern Women's Basketball Camp Sports Team Camp - Overnight: $240.00/player - Commuter:$120.00 Varsity, JV, & Sophomore divisions 8:00 am - 10:00 pm | More Info 06 Jun Lifeguard Course Workshop/Training 20 hour course designed to provide lifeguard participants with the knowledge and skills to prevent, recognize and respond to aquatic emergencies and to provide care for breathing and cardiac emergencies, injuries and sudden illnesses until emergency medical services (EMS) personnel take over. The course content and activities will prepare participants to make appropriate decisions about the care to provide in an aquatic emergency and a medical emergency. Upon successful completion of a skills pretest* participants will participate in classroom and water sessions to teach them proper lifesaving skills. In order to become certified participants must attend and participate in all class sessions, successfully complete all skill assessments, and receive 80% or better on all final written exams. No refunds given after the second day of class. *In order to pass the skills pretest participants must: swim 300 yards nonstop using a combination of front crawl and breaststroke; tread water for 2 minutes using only legs; swim 20 yards, surface dive 7-10 feet and retrieve a 10 lb brick, return to the surface and swim 20 yards on the back to return to the starting point with both hands holding 4:00 pm - 8:00 pm | HPER Building | More Info 07 Jun USU Eastern Women's Basketball Camp Sports Team Camp - Overnight: $240.00/player - Commuter:$120.00 Varsity, JV, & Sophomore divisions 8:00 am - 10:00 pm | More Info 07 Jun Native American STEM Mentorship Program (NASMP) Workshop/Training USU Blanding students will be going up to Logan campus for a four-week session of STEM classes. Sponsored by NASNTI, AIS, and MESA 8:00 am - 5:00 pm | Utah State University Campus | More Info 07 Jun Right Referral Webinar Workshop/Training 10:00 a.m. Exploratory Advising/Pre-Health/Associate Degrees; 10:45 a.m. University Advising 10:00 am - 11:30 am | Online/Virtual | More Info 07 Jun Lineage II Arts/Entertainment Lineage II showcases work created by Cache Valley teachers and students. The exhibition includes a variety of mediums, including painting, prints, digital photography, ceramics, and mixed media works. The show will be open Tuesday 10 AM – 6 PM and Saturday 10 AM – 4 PM, with a reception on May 26, 5 – 7 PM. 10:00 am - 6:00 pm | Chase Fine Arts Center, Tipetts and Eccles Galleries | More Info 07 Jun Blue Plate Research: Defenders, bullies, and victims--The social ecology of adolescence Panel Discussion/Presentation Everyone wants to be part of a community. This is especially true for young people as they are discovering who they are and how they fit in the world. Unfortunately, many children face bullying and other acts of victimization. But what causes bullying? How can defenders reduce its frequency? Is bullying preventable? Those are the questions being asked by Dr. Diana Meter, a researcher in Utah State University's Human Development and Family Studies department, who explores what factors predict when kids will stand up for each other and how we can encourage more defenders. Dr. Meter will share some of her findings at the next USU Blue Plate Research, held in-person for the first time from 11:30 a.m. to 1 p.m. on June 7, 2022 at Gallivan Hall in downtown Salt Lake City. Lunch will be provided for attendees! 11:30 am - 1:00 pm | More Info 07 Jun Master of Social Work Virtual Information Session Information/Orientation A weekly information session to connect with prospective students, those interested in pursuing a Masters in Social Work. We will review the program, admissions process and address any questions. 6:30 pm - 7:30 pm | Online/Virtual | More Info 08 Jun USU Eastern Women's Basketball Camp Sports Team Camp - Overnight: $240.00/player - Commuter:$120.00 Varsity, JV, & Sophomore divisions 8:00 am - 10:00 pm | More Info 08 Jun Native American STEM Mentorship Program (NASMP) Workshop/Training USU Blanding students will be going up to Logan campus for a four-week session of STEM classes. Sponsored by NASNTI, AIS, and MESA 8:00 am - 5:00 pm | Utah State University Campus | More Info 08 Jun Lineage II Arts/Entertainment Lineage II showcases work created by Cache Valley teachers and students. The exhibition includes a variety of mediums, including painting, prints, digital photography, ceramics, and mixed media works. The show will be open Tuesday 10 AM – 6 PM and Saturday 10 AM – 4 PM, with a reception on May 26, 5 – 7 PM. 10:00 am - 6:00 pm | Chase Fine Arts Center, Tipetts and Eccles Galleries | More Info 09 Jun USU Brigham City Pickelball Tournament Sports Pickleball tournament to support scholarships in Box Elder and Davis Counties All Day | More Info 09 Jun Native American STEM Mentorship Program (NASMP) Workshop/Training USU Blanding students will be going up to Logan campus for a four-week session of STEM classes. Sponsored by NASNTI, AIS, and MESA 8:00 am - 5:00 pm | Utah State University Campus | More Info 09 Jun USU & You Radio Program Panel Discussion/Presentation Community engagement, discussion, and information sharing. 9:00 am - 9:30 am | More Info 09 Jun Lineage II Arts/Entertainment Lineage II showcases work created by Cache Valley teachers and students. The exhibition includes a variety of mediums, including painting, prints, digital photography, ceramics, and mixed media works. The show will be open Tuesday 10 AM – 6 PM and Saturday 10 AM – 4 PM, with a reception on May 26, 5 – 7 PM. 10:00 am - 6:00 pm | Chase Fine Arts Center, Tipetts and Eccles Galleries | More Info 09 Jun Weekly Master of Social Work Information Meeting Information/Orientation Weekly virtual meeting to review admissions requirements , an overview of Utah State's Master of Social Work program and a question/answer session to follow. 12:00 pm - 1:00 pm | Online/Virtual | More Info 10 Jun Native American STEM Mentorship Program (NASMP) Workshop/Training USU Blanding students will be going up to Logan campus for a four-week session of STEM classes. Sponsored by NASNTI, AIS, and MESA 8:00 am - 5:00 pm | Utah State University Campus | More Info 10 Jun Lineage II Arts/Entertainment Lineage II showcases work created by Cache Valley teachers and students. The exhibition includes a variety of mediums, including painting, prints, digital photography, ceramics, and mixed media works. The show will be open Tuesday 10 AM – 6 PM and Saturday 10 AM – 4 PM, with a reception on May 26, 5 – 7 PM. 10:00 am - 6:00 pm | Chase Fine Arts Center, Tipetts and Eccles Galleries | More Info 10 Jun Adult & Pediatric CPR/AED/First Aid Course Workshop/Training Get your CPR certification with USU Campus Recreation! Register for $50 at recportal.usu.edu 4:30 pm - 6:30 pm | Aggie Recreation Center (ARC) | More Info 11 Jun Native American STEM Mentorship Program (NASMP) Workshop/Training USU Blanding students will be going up to Logan campus for a four-week session of STEM classes. Sponsored by NASNTI, AIS, and MESA 8:00 am - 5:00 pm | Utah State University Campus | More Info 11 Jun American Red Cross CPR/AED for the Professional Rescuers and First Aid Workshop/Training The primary purpose of the American Red Cross CPR/AED for the Professional Rescuers and First Aid course is to instruct those who have a duty to act (professional rescuers) in the knowledge and skills needed to respond appropriately to first aid, breathing, and cardiac emergencies. This includes the use of an automated external defibrillator (AED) to care for a victim experiencing cardiac arrest. Register at recportal.usu.edu. 11:00 am - 4:00 pm | Aggie Recreation Center (ARC) | More Info 12 Jun Native American STEM Mentorship Program (NASMP) Workshop/Training USU Blanding students will be going up to Logan campus for a four-week session of STEM classes. Sponsored by NASNTI, AIS, and MESA 8:00 am - 5:00 pm | Utah State University Campus | More Info 13 Jun Native American STEM Mentorship Program (NASMP) Workshop/Training USU Blanding students will be going up to Logan campus for a four-week session of STEM classes. Sponsored by NASNTI, AIS, and MESA 8:00 am - 5:00 pm | Utah State University Campus | More Info 14 Jun Native American STEM Mentorship Program (NASMP) Workshop/Training USU Blanding students will be going up to Logan campus for a four-week session of STEM classes. Sponsored by NASNTI, AIS, and MESA 8:00 am - 5:00 pm | Utah State University Campus | More Info 14 Jun Right Referral Webinar Workshop/Training 10 a.m. Inclusion Center Resources; 10:45 a.m. Residence Life 10:00 am - 11:30 am | Online/Virtual | More Info 14 Jun Lunch & Learn: Aetna - The Power of Positive Thinking Workshop/Training Is the glass half-full or half-empty? Did you do well on that project because you worked hard or because your boss went easy on you? Positive thinking helps you feel empowered and improves self-esteem. In this workshop we’ll help attendees identify whether they are positive or negative thinkers, examine the importance of positive thinking, and learn ways to become a positive thinker. Register today for this Lunch & Learn event provided by Aetna, USU's Employee Assistance Program, and the Be Well Program. More information and resources for Mental Health can be found at hr.usu.edu/aggiesthrive. 12:00 pm - 1:00 pm | Online/Virtual | More Info 14 Jun Master of Social Work Virtual Information Session Information/Orientation A weekly information session to connect with prospective students, those interested in pursuing a Masters in Social Work. We will review the program, admissions process and address any questions. 6:30 pm - 7:30 pm | Online/Virtual | More Info 16 Jun USU & You Radio Program Panel Discussion/Presentation Community engagement, discussion, and information sharing. 9:00 am - 9:30 am | More Info 16 Jun Weekly Master of Social Work Information Meeting Information/Orientation Weekly virtual meeting to review admissions requirements , an overview of Utah State's Master of Social Work program and a question/answer session to follow. 12:00 pm - 1:00 pm | Online/Virtual | More Info 17 Jun Utah Black History Museum Bus Celebration/Fair/Festival Juneteenth 2022, "Educate, Celebrate, Activate" All Day | Nora Eccles Harrison Museum of Art | More Info 17 Jun Silent Auction Fundraiser | Diversity and Inclusion Juneteenth 2022 "Educate, Celebrate, Activate" All Day | Russell/Wanlass Performance Hall | More Info 17 Jun Panel Series Panel Discussion/Presentation | Diversity and Inclusion Juneteenth 2022 - "Educate, Celebrate, Activate" 12:00 pm - 4:00 pm | Russell/Wanlass Performance Hall | More Info 17 Jun Alumni Mixer Social/Networking | Diversity and Inclusion Juneteenth 2022 - "Educate, Celebrate, Activate" 3:00 pm - 5:00 pm | Russell/Wanlass Performance Hall | More Info 17 Jun A Fox on the Fairway Arts/Entertainment Movie Equivalent Rating: PG-13 Set amid the leafy greens of Quail Valley Country Club, A FOX ON THE FAIRWAY unfolds on the day Quail Valley faces its oldest rival, nearby Crouching Squirrel Golf and Racquet Club, for the golf tournament of the decade. Battle lines are dawn when the two clubs, like Greece and Troy, assemble their bravest heroes and play on to the final, madcap putt on an 18th hole that is the stuff of legend. A tribute to the English farces of the 1930s and '40s, A FOX ON THE FAIRWAY takes audiences on a riotous ride that recalls the classics of the Marx Brothers. 7:30 pm - 10:00 pm | Caine Lyric Theatre | More Info 18 Jun Juneteenth 5K Fundraiser Juneteenth 2022 "Educate, Celebrate, Activate" 8:30 am - 10:30 am | Steve and Dona Reeder Cross Country Course | More Info 18 Jun Juneteenth BBQ Celebration/Fair/Festival | Diversity and Inclusion Juneteenth 2022 "Educate, Celebrate, Activate" 11:30 am - 2:30 pm | More Info 18 Jun A Fox on the Fairway Arts/Entertainment Movie Equivalent Rating: PG-13 Set amid the leafy greens of Quail Valley Country Club, A FOX ON THE FAIRWAY unfolds on the day Quail Valley faces its oldest rival, nearby Crouching Squirrel Golf and Racquet Club, for the golf tournament of the decade. Battle lines are dawn when the two clubs, like Greece and Troy, assemble their bravest heroes and play on to the final, madcap putt on an 18th hole that is the stuff of legend. A tribute to the English farces of the 1930s and '40s, A FOX ON THE FAIRWAY takes audiences on a riotous ride that recalls the classics of the Marx Brothers. 1:00 pm - 3:30 pm | Caine Lyric Theatre | More Info 18 Jun "His Name is Green Flake" Film Screening Panel Discussion/Presentation | Diversity and Inclusion Juneteenth 2022 "Educate, Celebrate, Activate" 6:00 pm - 8:00 pm | Russell/Wanlass Performance Hall | More Info 18 Jun A Fox on the Fairway Arts/Entertainment Movie Equivalent Rating: PG-13 Set amid the leafy greens of Quail Valley Country Club, A FOX ON THE FAIRWAY unfolds on the day Quail Valley faces its oldest rival, nearby Crouching Squirrel Golf and Racquet Club, for the golf tournament of the decade. Battle lines are dawn when the two clubs, like Greece and Troy, assemble their bravest heroes and play on to the final, madcap putt on an 18th hole that is the stuff of legend. A tribute to the English farces of the 1930s and '40s, A FOX ON THE FAIRWAY takes audiences on a riotous ride that recalls the classics of the Marx Brothers. 7:30 pm - 10:00 pm | Caine Lyric Theatre | More Info 19 Jun Juneteenth Interfaith Devotional Special Event Juneteenth "Educate, Celebrate, Activate" 6:00 pm - 7:30 pm | Taggart Student Center | More Info 19 Jun USU Alumni Band: Season Opener Arts/Entertainment The USU Alumni Band is back for Summer 2022! Join us on the Quad and bring snacks and a blanket or lawn chairs for a fantastic concert. 7:00 pm - 8:30 pm | Quad | More Info 20 Jun Engineering State Special Event Engineering State is a fun-filled two-day summer camp for students entering their senior year of high school. Participants explore how engineering has changed our world and learn what earning a degree in engineering is all about. From 6/20 , All Day to 6/21 , All Day | More Info 20 Jun Juneteenth (Observed) Holidays | Holiday Calendar USU will be closed June 20 2022 in observance of Juneteenth. All Day | Utah State University | More Info 20 Jun Juneteenth (Observed) Academic Calendar | Summer Semester USU will be closed June 20 2022 in observance of Juneteenth. All Day | Utah State University | More Info 20 Jun Bennion Workshop Keynote Address - Deep Stories and Democracy: Excavating Religion in American Society Panel Discussion/Presentation This presentation is free and open to the public as part of the Bennion Teachers' Workshop. Lauren Kerby, a scholar of American religion and politics at at Princeton University, and an expert on the pedagogy of religious studies, will present on the importance of understanding religion in society and why it matters. Dr. Kerby’s first book, Saving History: How White Evangelicals Tour the Nation's Capital and Redeem a Christian America (University of North Carolina, 2020), explores white Christian nationalists' stories about the United States and how they shape white evangelicals' religious identity and political behavior. Her current project develops a pedagogy for the public understanding of religion, focusing on how religious narratives invisibly inform how Americans think about work. 5:00 pm - 7:00 pm | Eccles Conference Center Auditorium | More Info 21 Jun 2022 Intertribal Opioid Wellness Summit Conference/Seminar Registration Link: bit.ly/2022OpioidSummit The 2022 Intertribal Opioid Wellness Summit (IOWS) is a homecoming, a moment to gather, to build strength, and to challenge ourselves. Indigenous and rural communities are ready to reclaim recovery and wellbeing. Together, facing the opioid epidemic with open eyes, we invite you to join in and help assemble resources for healing and wellness. Featuring indigenous substance use disorder professionals, inspiring recovery narratives, leading research, and community provider panels, the 2022 IOWS is designed for community member and professionals and will offer opioid use disorder resources for wellness and recovery. We look forward to you joining us for the 5th Annual Opioid Wellness Summit, hosted by Utah State University’s Tribal and Rural Opioid Initiative Resource Center! 9:00 am - 4:00 pm | More Info 21 Jun Right Referral Webinar Workshop/Training 10 a.m. Veterans Resource Office 10:45 a.m. Student Conduct and CARE 10:00 am - 11:30 am | Online/Virtual | More Info 21 Jun Aggie Ice Cream Day Celebration/Fair/Festival Join us for the first official celebration of Aggie Ice Cream Day on Tuesday, June 21st. Aggie Ice Cream will be offering '100' cents off each cone all day long as they continue to celebrate 100 years of business. 10:00 am - 10:00 pm | More Info 21 Jun Master of Social Work Virtual Information Session Information/Orientation A weekly information session to connect with prospective students, those interested in pursuing a Masters in Social Work. We will review the program, admissions process and address any questions. 6:30 pm - 7:30 pm | Online/Virtual | More Info 22 Jun Desolation Canyon Rafting Recreation Come spend several days rafting the beautiful Desolation and Gray Canyons on the Green River. We will pack everything we need in rafts and leave civilization behind to travel downstream through the Desolation wilderness. We will enjoy sandy beaches, historical sites and numerous rapids that fill this 84 mile section of river. Participants must be able to swim, prepared for moderate physical activity and six days in a hot desert wilderness environment with temperatures over 100° F (38°C). Trip cost includes food, permit, transportation, rafting equipment, and student leadership. 2:00 pm - 11:55 pm | Aggie Recreation Center (ARC) | More Info 23 Jun Engineering State Special Event Engineering State is a fun-filled two-day summer camp for students entering their senior year of high school. Participants explore how engineering has changed our world and learn what earning a degree in engineering is all about. From 6/23 , All Day to 6/24 , All Day | More Info 23 Jun USU & You Radio Program Panel Discussion/Presentation Community engagement, discussion, and information sharing. 9:00 am - 9:30 am | More Info 23 Jun Weekly Master of Social Work Information Meeting Information/Orientation Weekly virtual meeting to review admissions requirements , an overview of Utah State's Master of Social Work program and a question/answer session to follow. 12:00 pm - 1:00 pm | Online/Virtual | More Info 24 Jun Disney's Freaky Friday, the Musical Arts/Entertainment Movie Equivalent Rating: PG When an overworked mother and her teenage daughter magically swap bodies, they have just one day to put things right again. FREAKY FRIDAY, a musical based on the celebrated novel by Mary Rodgers and the hit Disney films, is a heartfelt, comedic, and unexpectedly emotional update on an American classic. By spending a day in each other's shoes, Katherine and Ellie come to appreciate one another's struggles, learn self-acceptance, and realize the immeasurable love and mutual respect that bond a mother and daughter. 7:30 pm - 10:00 pm | Chase Fine Arts Center, Morgan Theatre | More Info 25 Jun Disney's Freaky Friday, the Musical Arts/Entertainment Movie Equivalent Rating: PG When an overworked mother and her teenage daughter magically swap bodies, they have just one day to put things right again. FREAKY FRIDAY, a musical based on the celebrated novel by Mary Rodgers and the hit Disney films, is a heartfelt, comedic, and unexpectedly emotional update on an American classic. By spending a day in each other's shoes, Katherine and Ellie come to appreciate one another's struggles, learn self-acceptance, and realize the immeasurable love and mutual respect that bond a mother and daughter. 1:00 pm - 3:30 pm | Chase Fine Arts Center, Morgan Theatre | More Info 25 Jun Disney's Freaky Friday, the Musical Arts/Entertainment Movie Equivalent Rating: PG When an overworked mother and her teenage daughter magically swap bodies, they have just one day to put things right again. FREAKY FRIDAY, a musical based on the celebrated novel by Mary Rodgers and the hit Disney films, is a heartfelt, comedic, and unexpectedly emotional update on an American classic. By spending a day in each other's shoes, Katherine and Ellie come to appreciate one another's struggles, learn self-acceptance, and realize the immeasurable love and mutual respect that bond a mother and daughter. 7:30 pm - 10:00 pm | Chase Fine Arts Center, Morgan Theatre | More Info 26 Jun USU Alumni Band: Patriotic Celebration Arts/Entertainment TBA 7:00 pm - 8:30 pm | Quad | More Info 27 Jun Second 7-week Session Academic Calendar | Summer Semester 32 instruction days, 1 test day From 6/27 , All Day to 8/12 , All Day | Utah State University | More Info 28 Jun Aggie Orientation Information/Orientation New Student Orientation for incoming students and their parents. 9:00 am - 4:00 pm | Taggart Student Center | More Info 28 Jun Master of Social Work Virtual Information Session Information/Orientation A weekly information session to connect with prospective students, those interested in pursuing a Masters in Social Work. We will review the program, admissions process and address any questions. 6:30 pm - 7:30 pm | Online/Virtual | More Info 29 Jun Women & LGBTQ+ Night Recreation Women & those in the LGBTQ+ community are invited to Aggie Blue Bikes on the last Wednesday evening of every month! We will switch between having a shop night, where our mechanics can teach you how to fix your bike, and having a group ride around town. Come join us! All are welcome! 12:00 am - 7:00 pm | More Info 30 Jun USU & You Radio Program Panel Discussion/Presentation Community engagement, discussion, and information sharing. 9:00 am - 9:30 am | More Info 30 Jun Aggie Orientation Information/Orientation New Student Orientation for incoming students and their parents. 9:00 am - 4:00 pm | Taggart Student Center | More Info 30 Jun Weekly Master of Social Work Information Meeting Information/Orientation Weekly virtual meeting to review admissions requirements , an overview of Utah State's Master of Social Work program and a question/answer session to follow. 12:00 pm - 1:00 pm | Online/Virtual | More Info 30 Jun A Fox on the Fairway Arts/Entertainment Movie Equivalent Rating: PG-13 Set amid the leafy greens of Quail Valley Country Club, A FOX ON THE FAIRWAY unfolds on the day Quail Valley faces its oldest rival, nearby Crouching Squirrel Golf and Racquet Club, for the golf tournament of the decade. Battle lines are dawn when the two clubs, like Greece and Troy, assemble their bravest heroes and play on to the final, madcap putt on an 18th hole that is the stuff of legend. A tribute to the English farces of the 1930s and '40s, A FOX ON THE FAIRWAY takes audiences on a riotous ride that recalls the classics of the Marx Brothers. 7:30 pm - 10:00 pm | Caine Lyric Theatre | More Info 01 Jul Aggie Orientation Information/Orientation New Student Orientation for incoming students and their parents. 9:00 am - 4:00 pm | Taggart Student Center | More Info 01 Jul Disney's Freak Friday, the Musical Arts/Entertainment Movie Equivalent Rating: PG When an overworked mother and her teenage daughter magically swap bodies, they have just one day to put things right again. FREAKY FRIDAY, a musical based on the celebrated novel by Mary Rodgers and the hit Disney films, is a heartfelt, comedic, and unexpectedly emotional update on an American classic. By spending a day in each other's shoes, Katherine and Ellie come to appreciate one another's struggles, learn self-acceptance, and realize the immeasurable love and mutual respect that bond a mother and daughter. 1:00 pm - 3:30 pm | Chase Fine Arts Center, Morgan Theatre | More Info 01 Jul Fences Arts/Entertainment Troy Maxson is a former star of the Negro baseball league who now works as a garbage man in 1957 Pittsburgh. Troy was excluded from the major leagues during his prime, and his bitterness takes its toll on his relationships with his wife and his son, who now wants his own chance to play ball. Winner of the Pulitzer Prize for Drama and the Tony Award for Best Play, FENCES is the sixth play in August Wilson's ten-part "Pittsburgh Cycle." Movie Equivalent Rating: PG-13 7:30 pm - 10:00 pm | Chase Fine Arts Center, Black Box Theatre | More Info 02 Jul Fences Arts/Entertainment Troy Maxson is a former star of the Negro baseball league who now works as a garbage man in 1957 Pittsburgh. Troy was excluded from the major leagues during his prime, and his bitterness takes its toll on his relationships with his wife and his son, who now wants his own chance to play ball. Winner of the Pulitzer Prize for Drama and the Tony Award for Best Play, FENCES is the sixth play in August Wilson's ten-part "Pittsburgh Cycle." Movie Equivalent Rating: PG-13 1:00 pm - 3:30 pm | Chase Fine Arts Center, Black Box Theatre | More Info 02 Jul Fences Arts/Entertainment Troy Maxson is a former star of the Negro baseball league who now works as a garbage man in 1957 Pittsburgh. Troy was excluded from the major leagues during his prime, and his bitterness takes its toll on his relationships with his wife and his son, who now wants his own chance to play ball. Winner of the Pulitzer Prize for Drama and the Tony Award for Best Play, FENCES is the sixth play in August Wilson's ten-part "Pittsburgh Cycle." Movie Equivalent Rating: PG-13 7:30 pm - 10:00 pm | Chase Fine Arts Center, Black Box Theatre | More Info 04 Jul Independence Day Holidays | Holiday Calendar USU will be closed July 4 2022 in observance of Independence Day. All Day | Utah State University | More Info 04 Jul Independence Day Academic Calendar | Summer Semester No classes. All Day | Utah State University | More Info 05 Jul Master of Social Work Virtual Information Session Information/Orientation A weekly information session to connect with prospective students, those interested in pursuing a Masters in Social Work. We will review the program, admissions process and address any questions. 6:30 pm - 7:30 pm | Online/Virtual | More Info 06 Jul Disney's Freaky Friday, the Musical Arts/Entertainment Movie Equivalent Rating: PG When an overworked mother and her teenage daughter magically swap bodies, they have just one day to put things right again. FREAKY FRIDAY, a musical based on the celebrated novel by Mary Rodgers and the hit Disney films, is a heartfelt, comedic, and unexpectedly emotional update on an American classic. By spending a day in each other's shoes, Katherine and Ellie come to appreciate one another's struggles, learn self-acceptance, and realize the immeasurable love and mutual respect that bond a mother and daughter. 7:30 pm - 10:00 pm | Chase Fine Arts Center, Morgan Theatre | More Info 07 Jul USU & You Radio Program Panel Discussion/Presentation Community engagement, discussion, and information sharing. 9:00 am - 9:30 am | More Info 07 Jul Aggie Orientation Information/Orientation New Student Orientation for incoming students and their parents. 9:00 am - 4:00 pm | Taggart Student Center | More Info 07 Jul Weekly Master of Social Work Information Meeting Information/Orientation Weekly virtual meeting to review admissions requirements , an overview of Utah State's Master of Social Work program and a question/answer session to follow. 12:00 pm - 1:00 pm | Online/Virtual | More Info 07 Jul Fences Arts/Entertainment Movie Equivalent Rating: PG-13 Troy Maxson is a former star of the Negro baseball league who now works as a garbage man in 1957 Pittsburgh. Troy was excluded from the major leagues during his prime, and his bitterness takes its toll on his relationships with his wife and his son, who now wants his own chance to play ball. Winner of the Pulitzer Prize for Drama and the Tony Award for Best Play, Fences is the sixth play in August Wilson's ten-part "Pittsburgh Cycle." 7:30 pm - 10:00 pm | Chase Fine Arts Center, Black Box Theatre | More Info 08 Jul Into the Breeches! Arts/Entertainment Movie Equivalent Rating: PG-13 Set during World War II, the Oberon Play House's director and leading men are off at war. Determined to press on, the director's wife sets out to produce an all-female version of Shakespeare's Henry V, assembling an increasingly unexpected team united in desire, if not actual theatre experience. Together they deliver a delightful celebration of collaboration and persistence when the show must go on! A moving comedy about the singular way art and community reveal our boldest selves even in the darkest times. 1:00 pm - 3:30 pm | Caine Lyric Theatre | More Info 08 Jul Adult & Pediatric CPR/AED/First Aid Course Workshop/Training Get your CPR certification with USU Campus Recreation! Register for $50 at recportal.usu.edu 4:30 pm - 6:30 pm | Aggie Recreation Center (ARC) | More Info 08 Jul Into the Breeches! Arts/Entertainment Movie Equivalent Rating: PG-13 Set during World War II, the Oberon Play House's director and leading men are off at war. Determined to press on, the director's wife sets out to produce an all-female version of Shakespeare's Henry V, assembling an increasingly unexpected team united in desire, if not actual theatre experience. Together they deliver a delightful celebration of collaboration and persistence when the show must go on! A moving comedy about the singular way art and community reveal our boldest selves even in the darkest times. 7:30 pm - 10:00 pm | Caine Lyric Theatre | More Info 09 Jul American Red Cross CPR/AED and First Aid for Professional Rescuers Workshop/Training The primary purpose of the American Red Cross CPR/AED and First Aid for the Professional Rescuers course is to instruct those who have a duty to act (professional rescuers) in the knowledge and skills needed to respond appropriately to first aid, breathing, and cardiac emergencies. This includes the use of an automated external defibrillator (AED) to care for a victim experiencing cardiac arrest. Register at recportal.usu.edu. 11:00 am - 4:00 pm | Aggie Recreation Center (ARC) | More Info 09 Jul Into the Breeches! Arts/Entertainment Movie Equivalent Rating: PG-13 Set during World War II, the Oberon Play House's director and leading men are off at war. Determined to press on, the director's wife sets out to produce an all-female version of Shakespeare's Henry V, assembling an increasingly unexpected team united in desire, if not actual theatre experience. Together they deliver a delightful celebration of collaboration and persistence when the show must go on! A moving comedy about the singular way art and community reveal our boldest selves even in the darkest times. 1:00 pm - 3:30 pm | Caine Lyric Theatre | More Info 09 Jul A Fox on the Fairway Arts/Entertainment Movie Equivalent Rating: PG-13 Set amid the leafy greens of Quail Valley Country Club, A FOX ON THE FAIRWAY unfolds on the day Quail Valley faces its oldest rival, nearby Crouching Squirrel Golf and Racquet Club, for the golf tournament of the decade. Battle lines are dawn when the two clubs, like Greece and Troy, assemble their bravest heroes and play on to the final, madcap putt on an 18th hole that is the stuff of legend. A tribute to the English farces of the 1930s and '40s, A FOX ON THE FAIRWAY takes audiences on a riotous ride that recalls the classics of the Marx Brothers. 7:30 pm - 10:00 pm | Caine Lyric Theatre | More Info 10 Jul USU Alumni Band: Drum Alum Arts/Entertainment TBA 7:00 pm - 8:30 pm | Quad | More Info 12 Jul Aggie Orientation Information/Orientation New Student Orientation for incoming students and their parents. 9:00 am - 4:00 pm | Taggart Student Center | More Info 12 Jul Master of Social Work Virtual Information Session Information/Orientation A weekly information session to connect with prospective students, those interested in pursuing a Masters in Social Work. We will review the program, admissions process and address any questions. 6:30 pm - 7:30 pm | Online/Virtual | More Info 13 Jul Fences Arts/Entertainment Movie Equivalent Rating: PG-13 Troy Maxson is a former star of the Negro baseball league who now works as a garbage man in 1957 Pittsburgh. Troy was excluded from the major leagues during his prime, and his bitterness takes its toll on his relationships with his wife and his son, who now wants his own chance to play ball. Winner of the Pulitzer Prize for Drama and the Tony Award for Best Play, Fences is the sixth play in August Wilson's ten-part "Pittsburgh Cycle." 7:30 pm - 10:00 pm | Chase Fine Arts Center, Black Box Theatre | More Info 14 Jul USU & You Radio Program Panel Discussion/Presentation Community engagement, discussion, and information sharing. 9:00 am - 9:30 am | More Info 14 Jul Aggie Orientation Information/Orientation New Student Orientation for incoming students and their parents. 9:00 am - 4:00 pm | Taggart Student Center | More Info 14 Jul Weekly Master of Social Work Information Meeting Information/Orientation Weekly virtual meeting to review admissions requirements , an overview of Utah State's Master of Social Work program and a question/answer session to follow. 12:00 pm - 1:00 pm | Online/Virtual | More Info 14 Jul interACT: FreeMan in Paris Arts/Entertainment Movie Equivalent Rating: PG-13 For the second year, Lyric Rep presents interACT, featuring playwright Herb Newsome’s FreeMan in Paris, a drama about a jazz trumpeter named Carter Freeman. After each performance of the show, Herb will speak with audience members about his experience as a playwright performing his own work. 7:30 pm - 10:00 pm | Chase Fine Arts Center, Black Box Theatre | More Info 15 Jul Aggie Orientation Information/Orientation New Student Orientation for incoming students and their parents. 9:00 am - 4:00 pm | Taggart Student Center | More Info 15 Jul interACT: FreeMan in Paris Arts/Entertainment Movie Equivalent Rating: PG-13 For the second year, Lyric Rep presents interACT, featuring playwright Herb Newsome’s FreeMan in Paris, a drama about a jazz trumpeter named Carter Freeman. After each performance of the show, Herb will speak with audience members about his experience as a playwright performing his own work. 1:00 pm - 3:30 pm | Chase Fine Arts Center, Black Box Theatre | More Info 15 Jul Disney's Freaky Friday, the Musical Arts/Entertainment Movie Equivalent Rating: PG When an overworked mother and her teenage daughter magically swap bodies, they have just one day to put things right again. FREAKY FRIDAY, a musical based on the celebrated novel by Mary Rodgers and the hit Disney films, is a heartfelt, comedic, and unexpectedly emotional update on an American classic. By spending a day in each other's shoes, Katherine and Ellie come to appreciate one another's struggles, learn self-acceptance, and realize the immeasurable love and mutual respect that bond a mother and daughter. 7:30 pm - 10:00 pm | Chase Fine Arts Center, Morgan Theatre | More Info 16 Jul A Fox on the Fairway Arts/Entertainment Movie Equivalent Rating: PG-13 Set amid the leafy greens of Quail Valley Country Club, A FOX ON THE FAIRWAY unfolds on the day Quail Valley faces its oldest rival, nearby Crouching Squirrel Golf and Racquet Club, for the golf tournament of the decade. Battle lines are dawn when the two clubs, like Greece and Troy, assemble their bravest heroes and play on to the final, madcap putt on an 18th hole that is the stuff of legend. A tribute to the English farces of the 1930s and '40s, A FOX ON THE FAIRWAY takes audiences on a riotous ride that recalls the classics of the Marx Brothers. 1:00 pm - 3:30 pm | Caine Lyric Theatre | More Info 16 Jul Into the Breeches! Arts/Entertainment Movie Equivalent Rating: PG-13 Set during World War II, the Oberon Play House's director and leading men are off at war. Determined to press on, the director's wife sets out to produce an all-female version of Shakespeare's Henry V, assembling an increasingly unexpected team united in desire, if not actual theatre experience. Together they deliver a delightful celebration of collaboration and persistence when the show must go on! A moving comedy about the singular way art and community reveal our boldest selves even in the darkest times. 7:30 pm - 10:00 pm | Caine Lyric Theatre | More Info 17 Jul USU Alumni Band: Movies & Musicals Arts/Entertainment TBA 7:00 pm - 8:30 pm | Quad | More Info 19 Jul Aggie Orientation Information/Orientation New Student Orientation for incoming students and their parents. 9:00 am - 4:00 pm | Taggart Student Center | More Info 19 Jul Master of Social Work Virtual Information Session Information/Orientation A weekly information session to connect with prospective students, those interested in pursuing a Masters in Social Work. We will review the program, admissions process and address any questions. 6:30 pm - 7:30 pm | Online/Virtual | More Info 19 Jul 4th Annual Vosco Call Spotlight Concert Arts/Entertainment Hosted by Richie Call and Jason Spelbring Movie Equivalent Rating: PG This summer's theme is Movie Musicals! Join us on July 19 or 26 as we feature popular songs from the golden age of American musicals to present-day blockbusters. This concert, named after the Lyric Rep's founder and first artistic director, was created to celebrate our patrons, feature the talents of our company, and raise awareness and money for the Lyric Repertory Endowment Fund. This family-friendly event is not to be missed. 7:30 pm - 10:00 pm | Chase Fine Arts Center, Morgan Theatre | More Info 20 Jul interACT: FreeMan in Paris Arts/Entertainment Movie Equivalent Rating: PG-13 For the second year, Lyric Rep presents interACT, featuring playwright Herb Newsome’s FreeMan in Paris, a drama about a jazz trumpeter named Carter Freeman. After each performance of the show, Herb will speak with audience members about his experience as a playwright performing his own work. 1:00 pm - 3:30 pm | Chase Fine Arts Center, Black Box Theatre | More Info 20 Jul Faculty & Staff Desolation Canyon Rafting Trip Recreation Come spend several days rafting the beautiful Desolation and Gray Canyons on the Green River. We will pack everything we need in rafts and leave civilization behind to travel downstream through the Desolation wilderness. We will enjoy sandy beaches, historical sites and numerous rapids that fill this 84 mile section of river. Participants must be able to swim, prepared for moderate physical activity and six days in a hot desert wilderness environment with temperatures over 100° F (38°C). Trip cost includes food, permit, transportation, rafting equipment, and student leadership. 2:00 pm - 11:55 pm | Outdoor Recreation Center | More Info 20 Jul Into the Breeches! Arts/Entertainment Movie Equivalent Rating: PG-13 Set during World War II, the Oberon Play House's director and leading men are off at war. Determined to press on, the director's wife sets out to produce an all-female version of Shakespeare's Henry V, assembling an increasingly unexpected team united in desire, if not actual theatre experience. Together they deliver a delightful celebration of collaboration and persistence when the show must go on! A moving comedy about the singular way art and community reveal our boldest selves even in the darkest times. 7:30 pm - 10:00 pm | Caine Lyric Theatre | More Info 21 Jul USU & You Radio Program Panel Discussion/Presentation Community engagement, discussion, and information sharing. 9:00 am - 9:30 am | More Info 21 Jul Weekly Master of Social Work Information Meeting Information/Orientation Weekly virtual meeting to review admissions requirements , an overview of Utah State's Master of Social Work program and a question/answer session to follow. 12:00 pm - 1:00 pm | Online/Virtual | More Info 21 Jul Disney's Freaky Friday, the Musical Arts/Entertainment Movie Equivalent Rating: PG When an overworked mother and her teenage daughter magically swap bodies, they have just one day to put things right again. FREAKY FRIDAY, a musical based on the celebrated novel by Mary Rodgers and the hit Disney films, is a heartfelt, comedic, and unexpectedly emotional update on an American classic. By spending a day in each other's shoes, Katherine and Ellie come to appreciate one another's struggles, learn self-acceptance, and realize the immeasurable love and mutual respect that bond a mother and daughter. 7:30 pm - 10:00 pm | Chase Fine Arts Center, Morgan Theatre | More Info 22 Jul Aggie Orientation Information/Orientation New Student Orientation for incoming students and their parents. 9:00 am - 4:00 pm | Taggart Student Center | More Info 22 Jul A Fox on the Fairway Arts/Entertainment Movie Equivalent Rating: PG-13 Set amid the leafy greens of Quail Valley Country Club, A FOX ON THE FAIRWAY unfolds on the day Quail Valley faces its oldest rival, nearby Crouching Squirrel Golf and Racquet Club, for the golf tournament of the decade. Battle lines are dawn when the two clubs, like Greece and Troy, assemble their bravest heroes and play on to the final, madcap putt on an 18th hole that is the stuff of legend. A tribute to the English farces of the 1930s and '40s, A FOX ON THE FAIRWAY takes audiences on a riotous ride that recalls the classics of the Marx Brothers. 7:30 pm - 10:00 pm | Caine Lyric Theatre | More Info 22 Jul interACT: FreeMan in Paris Arts/Entertainment Movie Equivalent Rating: PG-13 For the second year, Lyric Rep presents interACT, featuring playwright Herb Newsome’s FreeMan in Paris, a drama about a jazz trumpeter named Carter Freeman. After each performance of the show, Herb will speak with audience members about his experience as a playwright performing his own work. 7:30 pm - 10:00 pm | Chase Fine Arts Center, Black Box Theatre | More Info 23 Jul Fences Arts/Entertainment Movie Equivalent Rating: PG-13 Troy Maxson is a former star of the Negro baseball league who now works as a garbage man in 1957 Pittsburgh. Troy was excluded from the major leagues during his prime, and his bitterness takes its toll on his relationships with his wife and his son, who now wants his own chance to play ball. Winner of the Pulitzer Prize for Drama and the Tony Award for Best Play, Fences is the sixth play in August Wilson's ten-part "Pittsburgh Cycle." 1:00 pm - 3:30 pm | Chase Fine Arts Center, Black Box Theatre | More Info 23 Jul Into the Breeches! Arts/Entertainment Movie Equivalent Rating: PG-13 Set during World War II, the Oberon Play House's director and leading men are off at war. Determined to press on, the director's wife sets out to produce an all-female version of Shakespeare's Henry V, assembling an increasingly unexpected team united in desire, if not actual theatre experience. Together they deliver a delightful celebration of collaboration and persistence when the show must go on! A moving comedy about the singular way art and community reveal our boldest selves even in the darkest times. 7:30 pm - 10:00 pm | Caine Lyric Theatre | More Info 25 Jul Pioneer Day (Observed) Holidays | Holiday Calendar USU will be closed July 25 2022 in observance of Pioneer Day. All Day | Utah State University | More Info 25 Jul Pioneer Day (observed) Academic Calendar | Summer Semester No classes. All Day | Utah State University | More Info 26 Jul Master of Social Work Virtual Information Session Information/Orientation A weekly information session to connect with prospective students, those interested in pursuing a Masters in Social Work. We will review the program, admissions process and address any questions. 6:30 pm - 7:30 pm | Online/Virtual | More Info 26 Jul 4th Annual Vosco Call Spotlight Concert Arts/Entertainment Hosted by Richie Call and Jason Spelbring Movie Equivalent Rating: PG This summer's theme is Movie Musicals! Join us on July 19 or 26 as we feature popular songs from the golden age of American musicals to present-day blockbusters. This concert, named after the Lyric Rep's founder and first artistic director, was created to celebrate our patrons, feature the talents of our company, and raise awareness and money for the Lyric Repertory Endowment Fund. This family-friendly event is not to be missed. 7:30 pm - 10:00 pm | Chase Fine Arts Center, Morgan Theatre | More Info 27 Jul Women & LGBTQ+ Night Recreation Women & those in the LGBTQ+ community are invited to Aggie Blue Bikes on the last Wednesday evening of every month! We will switch between having a shop night, where our mechanics can teach you how to fix your bike, and having a group ride around town. Come join us! All are welcome! 12:00 am - 7:00 pm | More Info 27 Jul Fences Arts/Entertainment Movie Equivalent Rating: PG-13 Troy Maxson is a former star of the Negro baseball league who now works as a garbage man in 1957 Pittsburgh. Troy was excluded from the major leagues during his prime, and his bitterness takes its toll on his relationships with his wife and his son, who now wants his own chance to play ball. Winner of the Pulitzer Prize for Drama and the Tony Award for Best Play, Fences is the sixth play in August Wilson's ten-part "Pittsburgh Cycle." 1:00 am - 3:30 pm | Chase Fine Arts Center, Black Box Theatre | More Info 27 Jul Into the Breeches! Arts/Entertainment Movie Equivalent Rating: PG-13 Set during World War II, the Oberon Play House's director and leading men are off at war. Determined to press on, the director's wife sets out to produce an all-female version of Shakespeare's Henry V, assembling an increasingly unexpected team united in desire, if not actual theatre experience. Together they deliver a delightful celebration of collaboration and persistence when the show must go on! A moving comedy about the singular way art and community reveal our boldest selves even in the darkest times. 7:30 pm - 10:00 pm | Caine Lyric Theatre | More Info 28 Jul Aggie Orientation Information/Orientation New Student Orientation for incoming students and their parents. 9:00 am - 4:00 pm | Taggart Student Center | More Info 28 Jul USU & You Radio Program Panel Discussion/Presentation Community engagement, discussion, and information sharing. 9:00 am - 9:30 am | More Info 28 Jul Weekly Master of Social Work Information Meeting Information/Orientation Weekly virtual meeting to review admissions requirements , an overview of Utah State's Master of Social Work program and a question/answer session to follow. 12:00 pm - 1:00 pm | Online/Virtual | More Info 28 Jul interACT: FreeMan in Paris Arts/Entertainment Movie Equivalent Rating: PG-13 For the second year, Lyric Rep presents interACT, featuring playwright Herb Newsome’s FreeMan in Paris, a drama about a jazz trumpeter named Carter Freeman. After each performance of the show, Herb will speak with audience members about his experience as a playwright performing his own work. 7:30 pm - 10:00 pm | Chase Fine Arts Center, Black Box Theatre | More Info 29 Jul Aggie Orientation Information/Orientation New Student Orientation for incoming students and their parents. 9:00 am - 4:00 pm | Taggart Student Center | More Info 29 Jul A Fox on the Fairway Arts/Entertainment Movie Equivalent Rating: PG-13 Set amid the leafy greens of Quail Valley Country Club, A FOX ON THE FAIRWAY unfolds on the day Quail Valley faces its oldest rival, nearby Crouching Squirrel Golf and Racquet Club, for the golf tournament of the decade. Battle lines are dawn when the two clubs, like Greece and Troy, assemble their bravest heroes and play on to the final, madcap putt on an 18th hole that is the stuff of legend. A tribute to the English farces of the 1930s and '40s, A FOX ON THE FAIRWAY takes audiences on a riotous ride that recalls the classics of the Marx Brothers. 1:00 pm - 3:30 pm | Caine Lyric Theatre | More Info 29 Jul Fences Arts/Entertainment Movie Equivalent Rating: PG-13 Troy Maxson is a former star of the Negro baseball league who now works as a garbage man in 1957 Pittsburgh. Troy was excluded from the major leagues during his prime, and his bitterness takes its toll on his relationships with his wife and his son, who now wants his own chance to play ball. Winner of the Pulitzer Prize for Drama and the Tony Award for Best Play, Fences is the sixth play in August Wilson's ten-part "Pittsburgh Cycle." 7:30 pm - 10:00 pm | Chase Fine Arts Center, Black Box Theatre | More Info 30 Jul Into the Breeches! Arts/Entertainment Movie Equivalent Rating: PG-13 Set during World War II, the Oberon Play House's director and leading men are off at war. Determined to press on, the director's wife sets out to produce an all-female version of Shakespeare's Henry V, assembling an increasingly unexpected team united in desire, if not actual theatre experience. Together they deliver a delightful celebration of collaboration and persistence when the show must go on! A moving comedy about the singular way art and community reveal our boldest selves even in the darkest times. 1:00 pm - 3:30 pm | Caine Lyric Theatre | More Info 30 Jul Disney's Freaky Friday, the Musical Arts/Entertainment Movie Equivalent Rating: PG When an overworked mother and her teenage daughter magically swap bodies, they have just one day to put things right again. FREAKY FRIDAY, a musical based on the celebrated novel by Mary Rodgers and the hit Disney films, is a heartfelt, comedic, and unexpectedly emotional update on an American classic. By spending a day in each other's shoes, Katherine and Ellie come to appreciate one another's struggles, learn self-acceptance, and realize the immeasurable love and mutual respect that bond a mother and daughter. 7:30 pm - 10:00 pm | Chase Fine Arts Center, Morgan Theatre | More Info 31 Jul USU Alumni Band: An Evening of Jazz Arts/Entertainment TBA 7:00 pm - 8:30 pm | Quad | More Info 02 Aug Aggie Orientation Information/Orientation New Student Orientation for incoming students and their parents. 9:00 am - 4:00 pm | Taggart Student Center | More Info 02 Aug Master of Social Work Virtual Information Session Information/Orientation A weekly information session to connect with prospective students, those interested in pursuing a Masters in Social Work. We will review the program, admissions process and address any questions. 6:30 pm - 7:30 pm | Online/Virtual | More Info 03 Aug Aggie Orientation Information/Orientation New Student Orientation for incoming students and their parents. 9:00 am - 4:00 pm | Taggart Student Center | More Info 04 Aug USU & You Radio Program Panel Discussion/Presentation Community engagement, discussion, and information sharing. 9:00 am - 9:30 am | More Info 04 Aug Weekly Master of Social Work Information Meeting Information/Orientation Weekly virtual meeting to review admissions requirements , an overview of Utah State's Master of Social Work program and a question/answer session to follow. 12:00 pm - 1:00 pm | Online/Virtual | More Info 09 Aug Master of Social Work Virtual Information Session Information/Orientation A weekly information session to connect with prospective students, those interested in pursuing a Masters in Social Work. We will review the program, admissions process and address any questions. 6:30 pm - 7:30 pm | Online/Virtual | More Info 11 Aug USU & You Radio Program Panel Discussion/Presentation Community engagement, discussion, and information sharing. 9:00 am - 9:30 am | More Info 11 Aug Weekly Master of Social Work Information Meeting Information/Orientation Weekly virtual meeting to review admissions requirements , an overview of Utah State's Master of Social Work program and a question/answer session to follow. 12:00 pm - 1:00 pm | Online/Virtual | More Info 12 Aug Native American Cultural Immersion Cultural Ten non-Native American Staff and Faculty from the USU Blanding campus will participate in a six-hour guided tour of Monument Valley's most important cultural and archeological sites. The event's objective is to learn about the culture, traditions, and beliefs of the Diné (Navajo People) and how that may affect the relationship with Native American students and the everyday teaching and mentoring practices. The tour will be provided by Monument Valley Safari and guided by Don Mose Jr. The tour includes a stop at Golding's Lodge Restaurant for lunch. Applications will be available online at https://statewide.usu.edu/blanding/nasnti. Any questions, contact Joao Bueno at (435) 678-8212. All Day | More Info 16 Aug Master of Social Work Virtual Information Session Information/Orientation A weekly information session to connect with prospective students, those interested in pursuing a Masters in Social Work. We will review the program, admissions process and address any questions. 6:30 pm - 7:30 pm | Online/Virtual | More Info 18 Aug USU & You Radio Program Panel Discussion/Presentation Community engagement, discussion, and information sharing. 9:00 am - 9:30 am | More Info 18 Aug Weekly Master of Social Work Information Meeting Information/Orientation Weekly virtual meeting to review admissions requirements , an overview of Utah State's Master of Social Work program and a question/answer session to follow. 12:00 pm - 1:00 pm | Online/Virtual | More Info 18 Aug Science Faculty & Staff Retreat Workshop/Training College of Science Faculty & Staff Retreat 1:00 pm - 5:00 pm | More Info 23 Aug Parent Orientation Dinner Conference/Seminar As part of Parent Orientation, we will be having a few select informational booths, and then a dinner for the new students and their parents. 2:30 pm - 7:30 pm | More Info 23 Aug Master of Social Work Virtual Information Session Information/Orientation A weekly information session to connect with prospective students, those interested in pursuing a Masters in Social Work. We will review the program, admissions process and address any questions. 6:30 pm - 7:30 pm | Online/Virtual | More Info 25 Aug USU & You Radio Program Panel Discussion/Presentation Community engagement, discussion, and information sharing. 9:00 am - 9:30 am | More Info Pick Date Filter Submit SUBMIT AN EVENT Previous MAY 2022 Next Sun Mon Tue Wed Thu Fri Sat 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 31 1 2 3 4 View By Day Week Month Event Types All Types Academic Calendar (73) Information/Orientation (67) Arts/Entertainment (53) Workshop/Training (27) Panel Discussion/Presentation (17) Recreation (9) Sports (7) Celebration/Fair/Festival (4) Special Event (4) Fundraiser (3) Conference/Seminar (2) Ceremony/Awards (1) Cultural (1) Lecture/Readings (1) Social/Networking (1) Student Activities (1) Date/Deadline (0) Exhibition (0) Breakfast/Luncheon/Dinner (0) Meeting (0) Reception/Reunion (0) More Types Target Audiences All Audiences Students (182) General Public (163) Faculty (153) Staff (153) Parents (138) Prospective Students (116) Alumni (91) Departments All Departments Utah State University (106) College of Humanities & Social Sciences (55) Sociology, Social Work and Anthropology (27) Mountain West Center for Regional Studies (1) Center for Intersectional Gender Studies and Research (0) Aerospace Studies (Air Force ROTC) (0) Asian Studies (0) English (0) History (0) Intensive English Language Institute (0) Interfaith Initiative (0) Journalism and Communication (0) Languages, Philosophy and Communication Studies (0) Latin American Studies (0) Military Science (Army ROTC) (0) Museum of Anthropology (0) Political Science (0) Religious Studies (0) Utah Public Radio (KUSU) (0) More Departments Caine College of the Arts (53) Lyric Repertory Company (39) Art and Design (9) Music (5) Theatre Arts (0) American Festival Chorus and Orchestra (0) More Departments Other (23) Statewide Campuses (18) Uintah Basin (13) Blanding (4) Tooele Region (1) Brigham Region (0) Moab (0) Southwest Region (0) Wasatch Region (0) More Departments Academic & Instructional Services (16) Student Orientation and Transition Services (13) Student Achievement Collaborative (3) Academic Success Center (ASC) (0) Admissions (0) Center for Innovative Design and Instruction (CIDI) (0) Disabilty Resource Center (0) Empowering Teaching Excellence (0) Financial Aid (0) Registrar's Office (0) More Departments Student Affairs (13) Campus Recreation (8) Inclusion Center (4) Aggie Blue Bikes (0) Center for Civic Engagement and Service-Learning (0) Counseling and Psychological Services (0) Diversity Council (0) Outdoor Recreation Center (0) Retention & First Year Experience (0) SAAVI Office (0) Service-Learning (0) Student Club/Organization (0) Student Health & Wellness Center (0) Student Support Services (0) Student Sustainability Office (0) Student Involvement & Leadership Office/USUSA (0) Testing Services (0) The HURD (0) Utah Conservation Corps (0) Val. R. Christensen Service Center (0) More Departments USU Eastern (6) Emma Eccles Jones College of Education & Human Services (2) Center for Persons with Disabilities (0) Communicative Disorders and Deaf Education (0) Edith Bowen Laboratory School (0) Human Development and Family Studies (0) Instructional Technology and Learning Sciences (0) Kinesiology and Health Science (0) Emma Eccles Jones Early Childhood Center (0) Nursing and Health Professions (0) Psychology (0) School of Teacher Education and Leadership (0) Sorenson Center for Clinical Excellence (0) Special Education and Rehabilitation (0) More Departments College of Engineering (2) American Society of Mechanical Engineers (ASME) (0) Biological Engineering (0) Civil and Environmental Engineering (0) Electrical and Computer Engineering (0) Engineering Education (0) Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering (0) Society of Women Engineers (SWE) (0) Space Dynamics Laboratory (0) More Departments College of Science (2) Computer Science (0) Biology (0) Center for Atmospheric and Space Studies (0) Chemistry and Biochemistry (0) Geosciences (0) Intermountain Herbarium (0) Mathematics and Statistics (0) Physics (0) More Departments President's Office (2) Latinx Cultural Center (0) Board of Trustees (0) Institute of Government and Politics (0) More Departments Advancement (1) Alumni Association (1) Development Office (0) Student Alumni Association (0) More Departments Athletics (1) Football (1) Cross Country (0) Men’s Basketball (0) Men’s Golf (0) Men’s Tennis (0) Softball (0) Track and Field (0) Volleyball (0) Women’s Basketball (0) Women’s Gymnastics (0) Women’s Soccer (0) Women’s Tennis (0) More Departments Business & Finance (1) Wellness Program (1) Campus Store (0) Conference Center (0) Controller's Office (0) Dining Services (0) Facilities (0) Housing and Residence Life (0) Information Technology (0) Human Resources (0) Parking and Transportation Services (0) Public safety (0) Publication Design and Production (0) Purchasing and Contract Services (0) Staff Employee Association (0) Taggart Student Center (0) University Inn (0) More Departments College of Agriculture and Applied Sciences (1) Aggie Ice Cream (1) Agricultural Experiment Station (0) Applied Economics (0) Center for Integrated BioSystems (0) Animal, Dairy & Veterinary Sciences (0) Laboratory Animal Research Center (0) Landscape Architecture and Environmental Planning (0) Nutrition, Dietetics & Food Sciences (0) Plants, Soils & Climate (0) Poisonous Plant Lab (0) School of Applied Sciences, Technology & Education (0) School of Veterinary Medicine (0) More Departments Merrill-Cazier Library (1) Office of Research (1) USU Research Foundation (USTAR) (0) Quinney College of Natural Resources (0) Berryman Institute for Wildlife Damage Management (0) Institute for Outdoor Recreation and Tourism (0) Environment and Society (0) Watershed Sciences (0) Wildland Resources (0) More Departments Extension (0) 4-H (0) Beaver County (0) Box Elder County (0) Cache County (0) Carbon County (0) Davis County (0) Duchesne County (0) Emery County (0) Garfield County (0) Grand County (0) Iron County (0) Juab County (0) Kane County (0) Logan Campus Extension (0) Millard County (0) Morgan County (0) Ogden Botanical Center (0) Piute County (0) Rich County (0) Salt Lake County (0) San Juan County (0) Sanpete County (0) Sevier County (0) Summit County (0) Swaner Preserve EcoCenter (0) Thanksgiving Point (0) Tooele County (0) Uintah County (0) USU Botanical Center (0) Utah County (0) Wasatch County (0) Wasatch Front (0) Washington County (0) Wayne County (0) Weber County (0) More Departments Information Technology (0) Jon M. Huntsman School of Business (0) Association for Information Systems (AIS) (0) Beta Alpha Psi (BAP) (0) BI Group (0) Business Council (0) Covey Leadership Center (0) Economics and Finance Department (0) Entrepreneurship Center (0) Entrepreneurship Club (0) Finance and Economics Club (0) Financial Planning Association (FPA) (0) FJ Management Center for Student Success (0) Global Learning Experience (0) Healthcare Administration Club (HAC) (0) Huntsman Marketing Association (0) Huntsman Scholars (0) Institute of Management Accountants (IMA) (0) Investment Banking Club (0) International Business Association (0) Management Department (0) Data Analytics & Information Systems Department (0) Marketing and Strategy Department (0) Master in Human Resources (MHR) (0) Master of Accounting (MAcc) (0) Master of Business Administration (MBA) (0) Master of Management Information Systems (MMIS) (0) Master of Science in Economics (MSE) (0) Master of Financial Economics (MFE) (0) Phi Beta Lambda (PBL) (0) Pro-Sales (0) Real Estate Association (0) School of Accountancy (0) Shingo Institute Student Chapter (0) Society for Human Resource Management (SHRM) (0) USU Distributive Education Clubs of America Chapter (DECA) (0) USU Pre-Law Society (0) Utah Women & Leadership Project (0) Sales Club (0) Women in Business Association (0) More Departments Multiple Sponsors (0) Ecology Center (0) Climate Adaptation Science (CAS) (0) More Departments Provost Office (0) Affirmative Action/Equal Opportunity (0) Analysis Assessment & Accreditation (0) Career Design Center (0) Faculty Senate (0) Honors (0) Nora Eccles Harrison Museum of Art (0) Office of Global Engagement (0) Study Abroad (0) Tenure Academy (0) University Advising (0) More Departments School of Graduate Studies (0) More Departments Want to learn more about USU? Request Information Calendar FOLLOW US USU Facebook USU Twitter USU YouTube USU Instagram USU LinkedIn Old Main Hill, Logan, UT 84322 (435) 797-1000 ABOUT USU Contact Quick Facts News For Media Career EDUCATION Find a Degree Colleges & Schools Graduate School USU Online Statewide Campuses RESOURCES Academic Calendar University Catalog Library Canvas IT Service Desk Quick Links Directory Events Visit Campus Maps Giving Maps & Directions Search USU Campus Safety Jobs Contact Disclaimers Copyright Privacy Accessibility Non-Discrimination Back to top of the page