Skip to main content Skip to main content Prospective Students Current Students Alumni More Faculty/Staff News Media Parents Skip to main content Apply Apply Give Give Follow Us Follow Us Twitter Follow Us Facebook Follow Us Instagram Follow Us LinkedIn Follow Us YouTube Follow Us Social Stream Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. Navigate Search Skip to main content SMU Research Road to R1 Key Research Areas Research Centers and Institutes Research Administration Faculty Grants ☰ Research at SMU SMU SMU Research SMU is a future-focused university with global impact, where research and teaching excellence come together as partners in the drive to produce World Changers. Learn more about our impact. » Faculty Highlights Caroline Brettell, Cultural Anthropology Anthropologist Dr. Caroline Brettell is an internationally recognized leader in the field of migration and the immigrant experience who was recently elected to the American Academy of Arts and Sciences. Her research interests include cross-cultural perspectives on gender, challenges of women immigrants, and the impacts of emerging technologies for immigration gateway cities such as Dallas, Atlanta and Minneapolis. Zhong Lu, Geophysics Geophysicist Dr. Zhong Lu works in the areas of landslides, coastal subsidence, and human-induced geohazards using advanced data analytics tools such as Interferometric Synthetic Aperture Radar (InSAR) to model ground deformations using radar images. He is part of a team at SMU that revealed sinkholes are expanding and forming in West Texas at an alarming rate, possibly through leakage at wastewater disposal well sites. Leanne Ketterlin-Geller, Mathematics and Education Dr. Leanne Ketterlin Geller’s research focuses on mathematics education through instructional leadership principles and practices, informed by her experiences in K-12 education. Her work includes the development of an assessment system to measure mathematical reasoning skills for U.S. elementary and high school students. Edward Glasscock, Biology Dr. Edward Glasscock leads SMU’s Cardiorespiratory Neurogenetics Laboratory, dedicated to understanding the genes and mechanisms underlying epilepsy and sudden unexpected death in epilepsy (SUDEP). His research lab’s goals include the identification of genes and combinations of genes that determine whether an individual will develop epilepsy. Pam Metzger, Criminal Justice Reform Professor Metzger’s scholarship combines theory and practice in seeking improvements in criminal justice. Her research explores how a data-driven systems approach to high-risk practices can improve the implementation of public defense services. Brian Stump, Seismology Dr. Brian Stump, a world-renowned Seismologist and American Association for the Advancement of Science Fellow, his work has been seminal in scientists’ ability to rapidly and accurately discern the difference between an earthquake, a conventional explosion (such as might occur in a mining accident) and a nuclear test and was of vital support to the Comprehensive Nuclear Test Ban Treaty. His work focuses on using acoustic and seismic waves to better understand when nuclear tests, large earthquakes and other major events that occur around the world. Research Centers and Institutes A university’s academic pursuits are supported and expanded by Centers and Institutes, which provide faculty and students venues for collaborative research, support, and engagement. Explore SMU's Centers and Institutes Research Spotlight Making Strides with Data Science SMU is actively developing a big-data ecosystem that includes virtual and augmented reality, and engages the disciplines across the campus, from physics to art, engineering to history, and business to education. View our key research areas pause play hide show The opportunity to pursue truly impactful research only enhances our ability to recruit and retain outstanding educators to the Hilltop. We are focused on moving into the highest pinnacle of research universities as we ignite our future. SMU Faculty in the News ARA and SMU announce microrobotics collaboration May 16, 2022 ARA and the Biological Actuation, Sensing, and Transport Laboratory (BAST Lab) at SMU today announced a collaboration to further advance microrobotics technology for real world applications. Massive Hunga volcano eruption sets new standard for crowdsourcing scientific observation of seismic events SMU team measured infrasound – too low for human ears to hear – as acoustic waves made multiple journeys around the globe May 16, 2022 The massive Jan. 15 eruption of the undersea Hunga Tonga-Hunga Ha’apai volcano in the South Pacific Ocean was a once-in-a-century event that allowed an international group of 76 scientists using multiple forms of technology to crowdsource their data in ways never before possible. Research shows the role empathy may play in music The link could pave the way for future research exploring the benefits of socially engaged, active music listening on social cognition May 11, 2022 Can people who understand the emotions of others better interpret emotions conveyed through music? A new study by an international team of researchers suggests the abilities are linked. Precipitation and temperature helped drive abundant dinosaur populations in ancient Alaska SMU study reveals impact of paleoclimate structure on large herbivore populations, may provide clues related to climate change May 03, 2022 A new study led by SMU paleontologist Anthony Fiorillo identifies the key role precipitation and temperature play in structuring vertebrate herbivore dinosaur populations in Alaska. The findings, which are published in the journal Geosciences, may also provide historical insights into the consequences of climate change. Arm movement and running speed: Is the partnership overrated? April 20, 2022 A new study suggests that restricting arm movement during short sprints impacts running performance only marginally. Tiny, but precise: NASA-sponsored team creates compact device to help spaceships land safely on planets April 12, 2022 A NASA-funded team led by SMU researchers think that their small, lightweight device developed to measure spaceship velocity will improve the odds of successful landings on Mars and other planets. Words matter Does media coverage impact the student loan debt narrative? April 05, 2022 Dominique J. Baker, a nationally recognized expert on education policy in SMU’s Simmons School of Education and Human Development, has received an emerging scholars pipeline grant to explore the links between race, racism, and how student loan policies are covered in media. International Research Team Identifies New Armored Dinosaur Species Found in Mongolia's Gobi Desert March 29, 2022 A new species of armored dinosaur from the southern Gobi Desert of Mongolia that may have used its unique tail as a weapon has been identified by an international team of vertebrate paleontologists and researchers. The gender gap: Nature or nurture? It’s complicated, says a large Facebook study March 23, 2022 It’s an age-old question - are the differences between what men and women like decided by nature or nurture? A new study from SMU and UC3M in Spain produced some surprising results: the gap separating the interests of men and women on some topics is larger in countries known for promoting gender equality than in countries with more rigid gender roles. SMU Alumna and Paleontologist Myria Perez ‘18 Featured on CBS Evening News March 10, 2022 Myria Perez, a 2018 graduate of SMU with degrees in geology and anthropology, was recently featured in a CBS Evening News segment about a new exhibit at the Smithsonian National Museum of Natural History in Washington, D.C. Gates Foundation Award to Study Test-Optional Admissions Impact March 03, 2022 A multi-university research team that includes Dominique Baker, assistant professor of education policy in SMU’s Simmons School of Education and Human Development, has been awarded a $1.4 million grant from the Gates Foundation to examine the impact test-optional admission policies in higher education had on college access and equity during the COVID-19 pandemic. 16 SMU Students Named Fulbright Semi-Finalists February 28, 2022 Outstanding scholars in the running for prestigious graduate study, research and teaching opportunities abroad SMU research cut a wide path in 2021 February 25, 2022 From answering pre-launch questions before a NASA mission to one of Saturn’s moons, to identifying hundreds of mostly “hidden” landslides on the U.S. West Coast, SMU professors and students fueled research with impact in 2021. Here are some of the highlights. Gene allowing humans to feel touch may play a role in sense of smell SMU research could lead to treatment for common COVID side effect February 23, 2022 Researchers from SMU (Southern Methodist University) have determined that a gene linked to feeling touch may moonlight as an olfactory gene. That’s the conclusion drawn from studying a very small, transparent worm that shares many similarities with the human nervous system. Jung-Chih Chiao elected Fellow of American Institute for Medical and Biological Engineering February 21, 2022 J.-C. Chiao, the Mary and Richard Templeton Centennial Chair and professor in the Electrical and Computer Engineering Department in the SMU Lyle School of Engineering, has been elected a fellow of the American Institute for Medical and Biological Engineering (AIMBE). Can conquering fractions lead to algebra success? Education researcher Leanne Ketterlin Geller earns largest single-year grant in SMU history February 16, 2022 Renowned mathematics researcher Leanne Ketterlin Geller, Texas Instruments Endowed Chair in Education in the Simmons School of Education and Human Development, has been awarded the largest single-year research award in SMU history. Overwhelming numbers, frequency of uninsured dialysis patients in public hospital emergency rooms may have a systemic solution SMU analysis suggests screening protocols set by government policy – not hospitals – may be to blame for ER strain February 08, 2022 Screening protocols to determine who qualifies for “compassionate dialysis” in hospitals with high numbers of uninsured patients are driving an unintended consequence, an SMU analysis has found. The protocols are putting too much strain on the emergency room, as measured by how long ER patients are waiting to be seen and other metrics. SMU Provost Elizabeth Loboa and geohazards researcher Zhong Lu elected AAAS fellows for their advancement of science The American Association for the Advancement of Science is the world’s largest general scientific society and publisher of the Science family of journals February 01, 2022 Elizabeth G. Loboa, SMU’s provost and vice president for academic affairs, and Zhong Lu, the Shuler-Foscue Chair in SMU's Roy M. Huffington Department of Earth Sciences, have been named fellows of the American Association for the Advancement of Science (AAAS). Election as an AAAS Fellow is an honor bestowed by their peers upon the group’s members for scientifically or socially distinguished efforts to advance science or its applications. Video game software patented for age-related macular degeneration research Machine learning software for OCT images aids in identify progression and treatment options January 18, 2022 BALANCED Media|Technology (BALANCED), in partnership with the Retina Foundation of the Southwest (RETINA) and Southern Methodist University (SMU), today announced a patent-pending medical imaging technology (U.S. Patent Application Serial No.16/538,662) that uses automated software and a video game to provide standardized, accurate, and precise identification of ocular diseases including age-related macular degeneration (AMD), the leading cause of visual impairment in the world. Which personality traits can be improved without personal motivation? Research says 'it depends' December 07, 2021 Could a company train an employee to become more conscientious, even if the worker isn’t invested in improving that trait? A new study suggests yes. But improving someone’s emotional stability without that person’s commitment is not likely to happen, says SMU psychology professor Nathan Hudson. New high-resolution camera records holograms of hidden objects SMU and Northwestern collaborate on technology with defense, hazard identification and medical applications December 02, 2021 Researchers at SMU (Southern Methodist University) and Northwestern University are using new technology that enables cameras to record high-resolution images and holograms of objects that are hidden around corners, obscured from view and/or beyond the line of sight. SMU Lyle prof listed among most "Highly Cited Researchers" for 2021 November 23, 2021 SMU’s Jianhui Wang was named to the 2021 list of Highly Cited Researchers from Clarivate. It’s the fourth time Wang, a professor with the Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering in SMU’s Lyle School of Engineering, has won the award. More news Other Resources Graduate Research Dedman College of Humanities and Sciences Lyle School of Engineering Simmons School of Education and Human Development SMU Libraries Dedman School of Law Cox School of Business Explore graduate studies Research Administration SMU's Research Administration provides research services to all faculty and staff at the university. Learn more Undergraduate Research SMU encourages undergraduate students to engage in research projects outside of their class assignments. Explore opportunities Apply Visit School Cox School of Business Dedman College of Humanities and Sciences Dedman School of Law Lyle School of Engineering Meadows School of the Arts Moody School of Graduate and Advanced Studies Perkins School of Theology Simmons School of Education and Human Development Explore SMU Magazine Academic Calendar Events Calendar Guildhall Continuing and Professional Education Athletics Employment at SMU Campus Reporting a Bias Incident Report Sexual Misconduct Emergency Preparedness Student Life George W. Bush Presidential Center SMU Libraries Meadows Museum Tate Lecture Series Contact Us Maps and Directions Legal Disclosures © Southern Methodist University, PO Box 750100, Dallas, TX 75275 twitter facebook instagram linkedin youtube share