Accessibility Options: Skip to Content Skip to Search Skip to footer Office of Disability Services Request Assistance 305-284-2374 Display: Default High Contrast University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Apply About UM Schools School of Architecture College of Arts & Sciences Miami Herbert Business School School of Communication School of Education & Human Development College of Engineering School of Law Rosenstiel School of Marine & Atmospheric Science Miller School of Medicine Frost School of Music School of Nursing & Health Studies The Graduate School Division of Continuing & International Education Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Search Tools People Search Class Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Search UM (Mobile) Apply Apply About UM Schools Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Academics Admissions Student Life Research UHealth Athletics Tools Popular Links Coronavirus Information News@TheU People Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement Home Search About U-SoA Philosophy and Mission Statement History of the School Community Outreach Accreditation Give to U-SoA Roadmap Initiative Contact Us News and Events U-SoA Now Newsletter Events Golf 2021 All News Calendar People Academic Leadership Students Faculty Alumni Staff Academics Undergraduate Graduate Design Build Travel Programs U-SoA Rome Summer Programs for High School Students Research Certificates Resources Careers Academic Services Libraries Facilities Labs and Centers Student Affairs International Affairs C.U.C.D. Admissions Admission Requirements Visit U-SoA Financial Aid and Scholarships Registration Tuition and Fees Graduate Assistantships About U-SoA News and Events People Academics Resources Admissions Search About U-SoA Philosophy and Mission Statement History of the School Community Outreach Accreditation Give to U-SoA Roadmap Initiative Contact Us News and Events U-SoA Now Newsletter Events Golf 2021 All News Calendar People Academic Leadership Students Faculty Alumni Staff Academics Undergraduate Graduate Design Build Travel Programs U-SoA Rome Summer Programs for High School Students Research Certificates Resources Careers Academic Services Libraries Facilities Labs and Centers Student Affairs International Affairs C.U.C.D. Admissions Admission Requirements Visit U-SoA Financial Aid and Scholarships Registration Tuition and Fees Graduate Assistantships GET STARTED 1 Request Info 2 Visit 3 Apply GET STARTED 1 Request Info 2 Visit 3 Apply Home News and Events Events U-SoA Golf Tournament AAA U-SoA Rome Program Golf Tournament TOM SPAIN INVITES YOU! Professor Tom Spain cordially invites you to participate in a memorable day of golf, prizes, networking – and philanthropy! The 14th Annual U-SoA Golf Tournament will be held at the Crandon Golf at Key Biscayne, FL – sponsorship opportunities are available. All net tournament proceeds benefit the Tom Spain Rome Program endowment, support the Rome program and provide scholarships which enable our students to spend a semester studying in Rome. Sign Up Now Be A Sponsor Donate 2021 Sponsors November 5th Events: 7:15 a.m. Registration 7:30 a.m. Breakfast & Networking 8:30 a.m. Shotgun Tee-off Entry fee per player includes: Green Fees & Cart Food, Refreshments, & Spirits Reception, Auction & Awards Tournament Committee: Robert Behar, Behar Font George Cuesta, Cuesta Construction Alex MacNamara, University of Miami Albert Menendez, M Group International William Real, Civic Construction Alex Remos, Pines Construction Luis Revuelta, Revuelta Architecture International Tom Spain, Tournament Founder, University of Miami School of Architecture Professor (retired) Frank Vilar, Vilar-Hoynack Construction Company Sponsorship Opportunities All net tournament proceeds benefit the Tom Spain Rome Program Endowment, programs and scholarships for the Rome Program at the School of Architecture. Presenting Sponsor Gold Sponsor Silver Sponsor Bronze Sponsor $15,000.00 ($880.00 non-deductible) $10,000 ($880.00 non-deductible) $5,000 ($880.00 non-deductible) $2,500 ($880.00 non-deductible) Recognition as a Presenting Sponsor on all promotional materials* and day of event. Recognition as Gold Sponsor in all promotional materials* and day of event. One tabletop display at reception area and awards ceremony. Logo on sponsorship banner. Opportunity to make remarks during reception. Opportunity to include promotional materials in tournament gift bag. All Bronze Sponsor benefits. Listing in the School of Architecture newsletter. Company logo on Tournament Shirts All Silver and Bronze Sponsor benefits. Entry fees, cart, hot lunch, food throughout the course and reception for golf foursome. Company name and logo on website featured throughout 2021 Golf Tournament promotion; approximately one year. All Gold, Silver and Bronze level benefits. Entry fees, cart, hot lunch, food throughout the course and reception for golf foursome. One sleeve of golf balls. Logo in publicity and social media campaigns. Entry fees, cart, hot lunch, food throughout the course and reception for golf foursome. Shopping spree includes golf swag for guests. Logo looping on golf cart GPS the day of the event. Shopping spree includes golf swag for guests. One sleeve of golf balls. Entry fees, cart, hot lunch, food throughout the course and reception for golf foursome. One sleeve of golf balls. One sleeve of golf balls. Golfing Not Included Opportunities Shirt Sponsor Cap Sponsor Umbrella Sponsor Golf Ball Sponsor Driving Range Sponsor Reception Sponsor Mask Sponsor In-Cart Sponsor $5,500 $3,500 $3,000 $2,500 $2,000 $1,500 $1,000 $500 each Logo on T-shirts used the day of the event. Logo on cap used the day of the event. Logo on umbrella. Logo on golf balls used the day of the event. Logo on sponsorship banner. Logo on signage day of the event. Logo on face mask. Logo looping on golf cart GPS the day of the event. Networking opportunities for six company representatives during pre-start networker or after tournament reception. Networking opportunities for two company representatives during pre-start networker or after tournament reception. Networking opportunities for two company representatives during pre-start networker or after tournament reception. Networking opportunities for two company representatives during pre-start networker or after tournament reception. Networking opportunities for two company representatives during warm up. Networking opportunities for two company representatives during pre-start networker or after tournament reception. Company name and logo on website featured throughout 2021 Golf Tournament promotion; approximately one year. Company name and logo on website featured throughout 2021 Golf Tournament promotion; approximately one year. Listing in the School of Architecture newsletter. Listing in the School of Architecture newsletter. Listing in the School of Architecture newsletter. Listing in the School of Architecture newsletter. Listing in the School of Architecture newsletter. Listing in the School of Architecture newsletter. Company name and logo on website featured throughout 2021 Golf Tournament promotion; approximately one year. Company name and logo on website featured throughout 2021 Golf Tournament promotion; approximately one year. Company name and logo on website featured throughout 2021 Golf Tournament promotion; approximately one year. Company name and logo on website featured throughout 2021 Golf Tournament promotion; approximately one year. Company name and logo on website featured throughout 2021 Golf Tournament promotion; approximately one year. Company name and logo on website featured throughout 2021 Golf Tournament promotion; approximately one year. Logo in publicity and social media campaigns. Logo in publicity and social media campaigns. Logo in publicity and social media campaigns. Logo in publicity and social media campaigns. Logo in publicity and social media campaigns. Logo in publicity and social media campaigns. Sponsorship funds will be used to support the School of Architecture Rome Program and Tom Spain Rome Program Endowment. For submission of your company logo and for additional questions and inquiries, please contact: Karina Alvarez Director of Development University of Miami, Division of Development & Alumni Relations (305) 284-5841 Karina.Alvarez@miami.edu Presented by: Cocktails Courtesy of: *All benefits are subject to receipt of sponsorship agreements, Sponsor logos and other required materials by October 27, 2021 to meet production deadlines. Sponsor logos, briefs and promotional gifts are subject to review and approval by the University prior to use in recognition materials as indicated above. Sponsorships for this event may not be paid through a donor-advised fund. Page linked via click-through-logo must not link to a call to action page. University of Miami Coral Gables, FL 33124 305-284-2211 School of Architecture 1223 Dickinson Drive Coral Gables, FL 33146 (305) 284 3731 (305) 284 3731 Resources About UM myUM CaneLink Academic Calendar Blackboard UM Network Alumni Association Medical Center Hurricane Sports Employment Opportunities Visit Campus Map Parking & Transportation Connect social-facebook social-twitter social-youtube social-instagram Copyright: 2022 University of Miami. All Rights Reserved. Emergency Information Privacy Statement & Legal Notices