Search | Directories | Reference Tools UW Home > Discover UW > Student Guide UW Bothell Course Descriptions UW Tacoma Course Descriptions Glossary INTERDISCIPLINARY GRADUATE PROGRAMS INTERDISC GLOBAL INNOVATION EXCHANGE GRP TECHNOLOGY INNOVATION Detailed course offerings (Time Schedule) are available for Spring Quarter 2022 Summer Quarter 2022 Autumn Quarter 2022 TECHIN 510 Programming for Digital and Physical User Interfaces (4) Students will enhance their fundamental programming skills, with a focus on sensor-based signals and data to demonstrate core concepts, while providing useful tools for prototyping digital and physical user interfaces. This course will introduce students to the practices of engineering interactive systems on mobile and desktop computers and low-cost micro-controllers. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: TECHIN 510 TECHIN 511 Fabrication and Physical Prototyping (3) Students gain fundamental fabrication and rapid prototyping skills for interactive systems, with a focus on industrial and product design, employing tools and processes with physical hardware, products, form factors, enclosures and packages. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: TECHIN 511 TECHIN 512 Introduction to Sensors and Circuits (3) Students will gain the background and techniques needed to connect digital systems to the physical world by learning the fundamentals of integrating sensors and microcontrollers. Students will also gain experience in the general process of sensor selection and designing hardware systems. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: TECHIN 512 TECHIN 513 Managing Data and Signal Processing (3) Students will gain the understanding needed to process low level sensor data, analyze and interpret that data using basic machine learning and signal processing, and then store the data in the cloud for later retrieval. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: TECHIN 513 TECHIN 514 Hardware Software Lab 1 (4) Students will be given a real-world experience in developing hardware/software systems to gather an understanding of the entire lifecycle of building such a system from concept through requirements and through implementation, and finally testing. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: TECHIN 514 TECHIN 515 Hardware Software Lab 2 (4) Builds on the foundation of TECHIN 514 and incorporate physical fabrication into course objectives. Students continue prototyping hardware/software systems, with the added complexity of signal processing, networking, cloud interfaces and web-based user interfaces. Prerequisite: TECHIN 514 Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: TECHIN 515 TECHIN 516 Robotics Lab 1: Robotic Sensing and Mobility (4) Applied work with autonomous mobile robots able to navigate through semi-structured environments using sensors such as cameras and a robust software stack. Laboratory consists of scale model autonomous cars, equipped with realistic 3D and image sensors, embedded in a scale model of a realistic environment. Prerequisite: TECHIN 510. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: TECHIN 516 TECHIN 517 Robotics Lab 2: Robotic Manipulation and Grasping (4) Applied work with robot arms and graspers, often in combination with sensors such as cameras, to perform manipulation and grasping tasks. Laboratory consists of advanced robot manipulators, configured for a series of tasks of increasing difficulty. A matching simulation environment allows student-written software to be initially partially debugged before engaging the actual robots. Prerequisite: TECHIN 516. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: TECHIN 517 TECHIN 520 Design Thinking for Technology Innovation (2) Introduces students to the history, theory, methods and core concepts of design thinking as applied to the design of innovations in hardware and software technology. This course will establish exposure to methods that will be applied to projects in the corresponding studio course, Design Thinking Studio, TECHIN 521. View course details in MyPlan: TECHIN 520 TECHIN 521 Design Thinking Studio (3) Involves practical application of the approach and methods learned in the corresponding lecture course, Design Thinking for Technology Innovation (TECHIN 520). Students apply their understanding to a specific problem and context that they will develop during the class. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: TECHIN 521 TECHIN 522 The History and Future of Technology (2) Gives students an understanding of past trends in hardware and software technology to understand how technology has changed over time. This will be in combination with techniques for enabling students to think about future technology trends and develop prototypes for futuristic ideas. An exploration of technology adoption and maturation models will ground students in the analysis skills to recognize the user and business contexts. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: TECHIN 522 TECHIN 523 User Research and Evaluation Studio (3) This project-based course focuses on the user research and evaluation components of the design process. Students learn methods to engage stakeholders and elicit their needs to provide insight for defining requirements for ethically-grounded designs and aspects of evaluation of technology designs with potential users, including usability and user experience evaluation techniques. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: TECHIN 523 TECHIN 524 Visual, Industrial and Interaction Design Studio (3) Immerses students in the theory and practice of basic design concepts for the design of interactive products that are functionally, emotionally and aesthetically appealing. Offered: S. View course details in MyPlan: TECHIN 524 TECHIN 530 Essentials of Entrepreneurship (2) Dan Olson Introduces business strategy fundamentals and an exploration of key issues and strategies involved in the process of starting up a new enterprise as well as practice in organizational strategy analysis and development for start-up organizations. View course details in MyPlan: TECHIN 530 TECHIN 531 Planning and Managing Hardware/Software Development (2) Students gain experience in creating a software/hardware product road map and an engineering/development plan. Offered: S. View course details in MyPlan: TECHIN 531 TECHIN 532 Introduction to Finance and Accounting for Entrepreneurs (2) This course provides the financial tools and mindset needed to become a successful entrepreneur. This course teaches common financial vocabulary, how to read and interpret the main financial statements (Balance Sheet, Income Statement and Statement of Cash Flows), capital budgeting fundamentals and valuation fundamentals. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: TECHIN 532 TECHIN 533 Corporate and IP Law for Technology Innovators (2) Introduces key areas of business law, including common organizational structures such as corporations, LLCs, and nonprofit/low-profit entities. Covers the roles of founders, directors and shareholders in each structure, as well as the basics of intellectual property and copyright law. Offered: S. View course details in MyPlan: TECHIN 533 TECHIN 534 Building Effective Teams (3) This course will equip students with tools to establish strong, shared commitment to a compelling team purpose, bring about collective buy-in to concrete performance objectives, promote team member adherence to a set of suitable work rules and roles, and foster the interpersonal trust and respect crucial to mutual team member support and, ultimately, extraordinary team performance. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: S. View course details in MyPlan: TECHIN 534 TECHIN 535 Essentials of Business Strategy (2) Charles W. L. Hill Reviews key concepts of strategic management. Focuses on strategic factors that increase probability of a firm's competitive success or failure. Core concepts include microeconomic theory. Specific topics include strategic planning, market analysis, competitive advantage, business level strategy, functional strategy, and organizing for implementation. Goal is to enhance the student's ability to think strategically. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: TECHIN 535 TECHIN 540 Integrated Launch Studio 1 (4) The first quarter of a two-quarter course sequence, students work in teams with guidance from industry sponsors and mentors to plan and execute front-end phases of a comprehensive Launch Project. Teams conduct initial research, prototyping for a technology solution proposal, and early functional prototype toward development of a solution demonstration that can be considered for commercialization via external funding or acquisition. Prerequisite: TECHIN 510; TECHIN 512; TECHIN 513; TECHIN 514; TECHIN 515; and TECHIN 523. Offered: S. View course details in MyPlan: TECHIN 540 TECHIN 541 Launch Seminar (2) Focuses on design and software/hardware industry trends and career outlook. Students develop a personal career vision and plan based on their experience, interests, and skills. Offered: AW. View course details in MyPlan: TECHIN 541 TECHIN 542 Integrated Launch Studio 2 (8) The final quarter of the two-quarter, team-based project, students continue their work to plan and complete the final phases of a comprehensive MSTI Launch Project. Teams will build on previous phases of exploration with more technical prototyping to develop and refine their solutions, culminating in the development of a technology-based solution proposal, prototype demonstration, and proposed business case for further development or funding. Prerequisite: TECHIN 510; TECHIN 512; TECHIN 513; TECHIN 514; TECHIN 515; TECHIN 523; and TECHIN 540. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: TECHIN 542 TECHIN 599 Special Projects (1) Individual graduate projects for the Masters of Science in Technology Innovation. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: TECHIN 599 TECHIN 600 Independent Study or Research (1-10, max. 10) Supervised independent study work to individual students in order to flexibly address the academic and professional development and research interests of individual students. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: TECHIN 600 TECHIN 601 Internship (1-) An experiential learning opportunity with technology employers that provide skill building and professional formation activities for students for future professional employment. Students will complete project work and skill-building activities such as goal setting; analysis and reflection; giving and receiving feedback; and debriefing their learning experience. Prerequisite: TECHIN 510; TECHIN 511; TECHIN 512; TECHIN 513; TECHIN 514; TECHIN 515; TECHIN 520; TECHIN 521; TECHIN 522; TECHIN 523; TECHIN 524; TECHIN 530; TECHIN 531; TECHIN 532; TECHIN 533; TECHIN 534; TECHIN 540; and TECHIN 542. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: TECHIN 601 TECHIN 700 Master's Thesis (1-2, max. 2) Individual graduate thesis research and presentation for the Global Innovation Exchange (GIX) Dual Degree program. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: TECHIN 700 Office of the University Registrar registrar@uw.edu Modified: May 30, 2022