Skip to main content Skip to main navigation Media and Public RelationsMenu Featured Research Announcements Accolades Hot Topics In the News Experts Expert Directory Media Kits Contact Media & PR Media & PR Staff Contact Information Baylor University Coronavirus (COVID-19) Information Media Access to Campus Policy Graduation / Award Lists Marketing and Communications Scholarship Recipient Information IRS form 990: June 2020 through May 2021 IRS form 990: June 2019 through May 2020 IRS form 990: June 2018 through May 2019 IRS form 990: June 2017 through May 2018 IRS form 990: June 2016 through May 2017 IRS form 990: June 2015 through May 2016 Report on Investigation - Willis & Pena Media Access to Campus Policy (A copy of this policy is available here.) Baylor University welcomes news media to campus as part of our mission to share our research, educational activities, expertise and events with the broader community. However, Baylor is a private academic institution and neither the public nor members of the media are entitled to unfettered access to its people or facilities. APPROVAL TO ACCESS CAMPUS: Before planning to come to campus, members of the media must contact Baylor Media & Public Relations by phone or email for approval to be on campus. Please contact Lori Fogleman at 254-709-5959 or Lori_Fogleman@baylor.edu. As a safety precaution, media are not allowed inside University buildings or facilities unless permission is obtained in advance from Baylor Media & Public Relations. OUTSIDE ACCESS: Media are allowed outside of University buildings and on public right of ways as long as it does not interfere with the University’s normal operations and activities and does not impede ingress or egress or overall campus safety. Procedures Overview Our goal is for students, faculty, staff and other members of the Baylor community to carry out their activities with a reasonable expectation of privacy and normalcy while remaining free to speak openly with the media if they choose to do so. Staff members from Baylor Media & Public Relations are generally available to assist crews with campus coverage, including setting up locations and gaining access to restricted areas on campus when permission to shoot has been granted. For assistance, contact Baylor Media & Public Relations at 254-710-1961 during regular business hours (M-F, 8 a.m. to 5 p.m.). Guidelines for News Media In order to make media visits as productive as possible, we have established the following guidelines: Before arriving on campus, representatives of the news media must check in with Baylor Media & Public Relations. Media are allowed outside of University buildings and on public right of ways as long as it does not interfere with the University’s normal operations and activities and does not impede ingress or egress or overall campus safety. Media are not allowed inside University buildings unless they seek and receive permission from Baylor Media & Public Relations. (See more information below.) During an emergency or in situations when Baylor determines that media access may become disruptive, media access may be denied or limited, and pool cameras or reporting may be required. News media representatives must seek permission from Baylor Media & Public Relations if they want to enter classrooms, laboratories or similar facilities for the purpose of reporting. Such permission may be granted if the reporting activities do not disrupt University activities; interfere with the privacy of students, faculty or staff; or jeopardize the safety of University personnel, visitors or facilities. Some events on campus may require media credentialing in advance, as coordinated through Baylor Media & Public Relations. As a private university, Baylor reserves the right to grant, deny or limit media access to events on campus based on the circumstances of the event and the best of interests of the safety and well-being of students, faculty and staff. Residence halls are closed to news media. Students are not authorized to bring news media into residence halls. All commercial, non-news photography or filming must be approved in advance by University Marketing & Communications. Drone photography/filming is not permitted by media outlets. For an individual University department, third party or hobbyist wishing to use a UAS or model aircraft over University property, they must first contact Baylor Media & Public Relations as far in advance as possible to initiate a separate process. Baylor UAS Drone Policy: https://www.baylor.edu/dps/doc.php/326324.pdff.* Baylor Media & Public Relations may provide The Baylor Lariat with special access to information, people or events, in recognition of its role as a student newspaper of record. Baylor respectfully requests that media honor the privacy rights and concerns of students as it relates to their coverage. Guidelines for News Recording and Photography In general, news recording and photography is allowed in outdoor areas on campus, although media, including photographers, must first check in with Baylor Media & Public Relations. These guidelines apply to any type of photography: stills, video and film. Permission to shoot in interior spaces must be obtained in advance in all circumstances. This includes: Administrative buildings and offices Athletic facilities Bill Daniel Student Center (SUB) Building common areas Chapels Classrooms Dining Areas Laboratories Libraries Residence halls are closed to news media. After permission is requested, Baylor Media & Public Relations will be happy to inquire on your behalf, but please submit requests as far in advance as possible since permission must be obtained from individual faculty for classrooms and by supervisors for labs. Drone photography/filming is not permitted by media outlets. See above policy.* Violations Baylor reserves the right to limit or eliminate access or revoke credentials to cover Baylor-related events and activities – including Athletics – for those who violate the Media Access Policy. Contact Media & PR Media & PR Staff Contact Information Baylor University Coronavirus (COVID-19) Information Media Access to Campus Policy Graduation / Award Lists Dean's Academic Honor List Graduation List Academic Scholarship Awards List Marketing and Communications Scholarship Recipient Information IRS form 990: June 2020 through May 2021 IRS form 990: June 2019 through May 2020 IRS form 990: June 2018 through May 2019 IRS form 990: June 2017 through May 2018 IRS form 990: June 2016 through May 2017 IRS form 990: June 2015 through May 2016 Report on Investigation - Willis & Pena Tweets by @BaylorUMedia Contact Us mail Media and Public Relations Baylor University One Bear Place #97024 Waco, TX 76798 tel (254) 710-1961 Email mediacomm@baylor.edu More Contact Info Show More General Information Colleges, Schools, Libraries & Research Admissions Administration Gateways For... About Baylor Anonymous Reporting Athletics Ask Baylor Bookstore Calendar Campus Map Directory Give Light Give to Baylor Illuminate Mental Health Resources News Pro Futuris Report It Search Social Media Title IX Baylor Libraries College of Arts & Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work George W. Truett Theological Seminary Graduate School Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Louise Herrington School of Nursing Research at Baylor University Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Engineering & Computer Science School of Music More Academics Undergraduate Admissions goBAYLOR Graduate Admissions Baylor Law School Admissions Social Work Graduate Programs George W. Truett Theological Seminary Admissions Online Graduate Professional Education Virtual Tour Visit Campus Annual Fire Safety and Security Notice Athletics Human Resources Marketing and Communications Office of General Counsel Office of the President Office of the Provost Operations, Finance & Administration Senior Administration Student Life University Advancement Baylor Alumni Faculty & Staff Online Graduate Professional Education Parents Prospective Faculty & Staff Prospective Students Students Copyright © Baylor® University. All rights reserved. Legal Disclosures. Baylor University • Waco, Texas 76798 • 1-800-229-5678 Featured Research Announcements Accolades Hot Topics In the News Experts Expert Directory Media Kits Baylor University Coronavirus (COVID-19) Information Baylor Bears 2019 Sic 'em for Safety Campaign Baylor Religion Survey Baylor Research and Innovation Collaborative Detecting Biomarkers for Cancer Eye Cancer App Helps Save Lives Exhuming Immigrant Remains Fighting Tropical Diseases Higgs Boson Research iCivics Baylor Model Life Patterns in Extreme Environments Paul L. Foster Campus Leadership and Innovation Summit Paul L. Foster Campus for Business and Innovation Small Business and Community Health Research Texas Hunger Initiative Water Quality Research Whale Earplug Reveals Lifetime Contaminant Exposure and Hormone Profiles Data Privacy Day 2019 Contact Media & PR Media & PR Staff Contact Information Baylor University Coronavirus (COVID-19) Information Media Access to Campus Policy Graduation / Award Lists Dean's Academic Honor List Graduation List Academic Scholarship Awards List Marketing and Communications Scholarship Recipient Information IRS form 990: June 2020 through May 2021 IRS form 990: June 2019 through May 2020 IRS form 990: June 2018 through May 2019 IRS form 990: June 2017 through May 2018 IRS form 990: June 2016 through May 2017 IRS form 990: June 2015 through May 2016 Report on Investigation - Willis & Pena