Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. Public Safety Public Safety right arrow down arrow About right arrow down arrow Contact Us FAQ Executive Team Newsroom right arrow down arrow Blog Posts Safety and Reform News Media Department Policies Safety Services right arrow down arrow Access Control & Physical Security Automated External Defibrillators Background Checks / Finger Prints right arrow down arrow FAQ Bicycle Registration Bearcat Guardian Crime Prevention right arrow down arrow Preventing theft from auto and auto theft Preventing theft and burglary Online and phone scams Housing Rental Scams Keys & Badges Lost & Found Mind What Matters NightRide Special Events right arrow down arrow Event Security Cost Estimate Special Events FAQ Be A Good Neighbor Police right arrow down arrow 911 Communications Leadership Community Engagement Team Crime Statistics Job Shadowing Mission, Vision and Values Bias Free Policing and Contact Cards Records and Reports Recruitment Victim Services right arrow down arrow What Are My Options? Harassment, Stalking and Dating Violence Sex Crimes K-9 Unit Request for Investigation University Threat Assessment Group Reform right arrow down arrow Board of Trustees' Resolution Community Compliance Council right arrow down arrow Meetings, Minutes and Materials Guiding Principles Values Members Resources External Reports and Voluntary Monitorship Clery Act right arrow down arrow Clery Notices Daily Crime Log Campus Security Authorities Annual Security Report Fire Prevention and Protection Units right arrow down arrow Fire Extinguisher Training Fire Drills and Smoke Detectors Areas of Rescue Assistance Fire Log Fire Alarm Construction Standards Emergency Management right arrow down arrow Emergency Procedures Safety Notifications Emergency Plans Bearcat Notifications Home » About UC » Public Safety » Safety Services » Crime Prevention » Online and phone scams Set Navigation title in component Access Control & Physical Security Automated External Defibrillators Background Checks / Finger Prints FAQ Bicycle Registration Bearcat Guardian Crime Prevention Preventing theft from auto and auto theft Preventing theft and burglary Online and phone scams Housing Rental Scams Keys & Badges Lost & Found Mind What Matters NightRide Special Events Event Security Cost Estimate Special Events FAQ Be A Good Neighbor Online and phone scams Online and phone scams have become prevalent in recent years. Many scammers target students, especially students looking for employment, but scams come in many different forms. Online scams Make sure your social media accounts are private. Posts online do not go away. Think about what you post before you post. Do not accept friend requests from people you do not know on social media. If someone asks you to pay for something in gift cards, it is likely a scam. Job scams: If you receive an email about a job opening, call the company to confirm the job opening. Avoid companies that want to contact you only by email and text message. If your email username is the name the sender uses to address you in an email, it is likely a scam. If you are not familiar with the company name, or if the sender's name is a word such as "congratulations," you should be skeptical. Check scams: Don't send money via Western Union or MoneyGram to someone you do not know. Do not accept a check from or cash a check for someone you do not know. If someone sends a check and asks you to send money back, and tells you to keep some for yourself, it is likely a scam. Some scammers target people who sell items online. They “accidentally” overpay and request the seller return the overpaid funds. The seller will return the money, and then the check from the scammer will bounce. Blackmail: A scammer may pose as someone else online and request inappropriate photos or videos, or request to video chat. If the target sends the photos or videos, or does something revealing during the chat, the scammer will threaten to post them publically or send them to the victim’s family members unless the victim sends the scammer money. Five ways to protect yourself online: Use complex passwords. Long passwords with both capital and lowercase letters, special characters and numbers are best. Your password should not be related to something someone might know about you. Do not click on email links or attachments you do not recognize. The attachment or link can open your computer to malware, a malicious piece of code, or it can lead you to “phishing” sites that harvest usernames and passwords. Do not click on pop up windows, as they can expose you to ransomware, a specific type of malicious code that holds you to ransom. Check URLs. Hackers can create websites that look like a webpage you use, such as your banking website or Facebook. Install a piece of anti-virus software or web application firewall. Most antivirus software automatically downloads updates to existing viruses. Phone scams Many scammers will claim to be from the IRS, and tell you that you owe money. The IRS will never call to demand immediate payment using a specific method, such as a prepaid debit card, gift card or wire transfer. The IRS generally mails a bill to the taxpayer who owes taxes first. Find out more here. Scammers will also claim to be from your bank, or a company, such as a utility company, and request information. Other scammers may call and offer to extend your vehicle warranty. Do not give out your personal information over the phone. If someone calls and tells you that your computer has a virus and says they can fix it, that is likely a scam. Never give someone you do not know remote access to your computer. Lending your phone If you have any payment apps on your phone, be wary of lending it to a stranger if, for example, someone asks to borrow your phone to make a call. Rather than making a call, the suspect may instead transfer money to themselves using a payment app. Three ways to protect yourself: Dial the number yourself. Ensure no one can access your accounts. For example, require a password to open your account. Do not lend your phone to anyone. Department of Public Safety 51 West Corry Boulevard Cincinnati, OH 45221-0215 Main Number: 513-556-4900 Background Checks, Keys and IDs: 513-556-4925 UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati Department of Public Safety 51 West Corry Boulevard Cincinnati, OH 45221-0215 Main Number: 513-556-4900 Background Checks, Keys and IDs: 513-556-4925 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top