Skip to main content iastate.edu Index A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z Directory Maps Safety Sign Ons Iowa State University Division of Student Affairs Menu Toggle Search Cyclones Forever Cyclone Support Sexual Assault Contact Us Main navigation Home About Mission & Priorities Meet the VP Senior Leaders Organization Chart Reporting Units Campus Life Central Office Dean of Students Office Student Health and Wellness Directory Impact Assessment By The Numbers Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Outside the Classroom Reports Students Career Competencies Co-Curricular Learning Domains Scholarships Student Organization Funding Staff Resources Assessment Awards CARE Recognition Committees Communications Events Calendar Division Meetings Policies Professional Development Challenge. Empower. Succeed. Integral to the rich and vibrant Iowa State University experience, Student Affairs challenges, and empowers students to succeed as productive citizens and leaders in a diverse community. CORE VALUES Student Development and Engagement In recognizing the uniqueness of each student, we support their overall growth and development through leadership and involvement opportunities, rich and meaningful co-curricular activities, and global engagement experiences. We also work to remain accessible and responsive to students, and to minimize barriers that inhibit effective learning. Connection, Collaboration, and Communication We strive to share our successes and outcomes with the community, ensuring transparency and inviting discussion about where we can enhance our work. Further, we desire to instill a global mindset in all Cyclones to enhance their cultural awareness and intercultural competence. Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion We seek to welcome and engage all Cyclones in an effort to create a respectful, responsible community that allows for equitable access to learning and involvement. Holistic Health, Wellness, and Safety of Students & Staff Cyclones should feel safe anywhere at Iowa State University. Our programs, services, and interactions are designed to embody this and to identify areas where continued work needs to occur. We function best when everyone aspires to their best physical, emotional, intellectual, financial, environmental, occupational, social, and spiritual wellbeing. Division Priorities Safety, Health & Well-Being We will work to create a safe, healthy, and wellness-focused environment for ISU students and student affairs staff so that they may thrive at ISU, in the Ames community, and the world beyond. Student Success We will collaborate with Academic Affairs, the ISU Foundation, and other campus partners to achieve measurable progress towards closing the achievement gap for multicultural, first-generation, low-socioeconomic, and student Veterans. Diversity, Equity, & Inclusion We will promote and enhance the climate on campus and in the surrounding communities so all are welcomed, included, and valued. Assessment & Research We will ensure that programs, policies, and practices are informed by assessment and research to better promote student enrollment, development, learning, and overall student success. Staff Development & Retention We will create intentional opportunities to support staff and make available the resources, tools, professional development, and the growth opportunities they need to be successful. Iowa State University Division of Student Affairs Office of the Senior Vice President and Provost Division of Operations and Finance Office of the President Contact 2350 Beardshear Hall 515 Morrill Road Ames, IA 50011 Summer Hours | May 16- August 12; Monday- Friday, 7:30 a.m.- 4 p.m. studentaffairs@iastate.edu 515-294-4420 phone Give Copyright © 1995- Iowa State University of Science and Technology All rights reserved. Non-discrimination Policy Privacy Policy Digital Access & Accessibility Consumer information Loading...