Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Search Type Faculty & Staff Event Featured Profile News Opportunity Resource Student Research Project Videos Search Menu Info for… [Select an Audience] [Select An Audience] Prospective Undergraduate Students Current Undergraduate Students Prospective Graduate Students Current Graduate Students Faculty & Staff Parents Alumni Employers Admissions» Undergraduate Admissions Graduate Admissions Academics» Undergraduate Degree Programs Graduate Degree Programs Online Learning Non-Degree & Special Programs Academic Policies Departments» Applied Physics and Applied Mathematics Biomedical Engineering Chemical Engineering Civil Engineering and Engineering Mechanics Computer Science Earth and Environmental Engineering Electrical Engineering Industrial Engineering and Operations Research Mechanical Engineering Research» Faculty and Research Staff Institutes, Centers & Initiatives Department Research Research Areas Undergraduate Research Opportunities University and School Research Resources Innovation, Design & Entrepreneurship» Student Life» Undergraduate Student Life Graduate Student Life Living in New York City Commencement Student Profiles About» Dean of Columbia Engineering At A Glance Engineering for Humanity Mission & Vision Supporting the Vision History Plan A Visit Board of Visitors Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion People News Columbia Engineering Magazine Strategic Collaborations Get Involved Bulletin Make a Gift Contact Home > News Strategic Collaborations Aug 19 2021 Columbia Engineering partners with industry, government, and non-profit foundations to cultivate mutually beneficial relationships. Guided by the School’s mission and vision, faculty, staff, and students take an multidisciplinary approach to impacting humanity. Every day, we are expanding knowledge and advancing technology through cutting-edge research. From technology firms to government organizations, Columbia Engineering is collaborating with global organizations and local companies at the forefront of scientific development. The Strategic Collaborations Office seeks partnerships that will advance education, research, and innovation and entrepreneurship. Contact us to share the challenges you face in your organization and let us help you transform what you do. Pillars of Strategic Collaborations Education Columbia Engineering attracts exceptional students to our undergraduate, graduate, and professional programs. We work with you to recruit new talent for employment and upskill existing talent with our wide array of executive education and continuing education programs. Research As a world-class research institution, we drive scientific breakthroughs. Our research spans from engineering medicine to using artificial intelligence to mitigate the impact of climate change. There are many ways you can partner with researchers across Columbia Engineering. Innovation + Entrepreneurship Students and faculty collaborate with local and international organizations to design tomorrow’s future. Our partners serve as mentors, offering insight into real-world problem solving. While our students learn from these valuable partnerships, employers take away new lessons too. Work with us to make a sustainable impact on the world. Benefits to partners Develop and hire exceptional talent Extend your brand visibility to the wider Columbia Engineering School community Identify faculty partners or connect with our Centers on projects of mutual interest Create partnerships with Columbia Engineering’s entrepreneurs/start-ups If you would like to receive information on how your organization can partner with Columbia Engineering School, please email [email protected]. We look forward to speaking soon. Contact Eric Vieira, PhD Director of Strategic Collaborations Columbia University - School of Engineering and Applied Science [email protected] Related Columbia Center of AI Technology Announces Faculty Research Awards and Two PhD Student Fellowships Feb 01 2021 | Portrait Photo Credit: Courtesy of Noemie Perivier and Mia Chiquier Columbia Engineering Team Builds First Hacker-resistant Cloud Software System May 24 2021 | By Holly Evarts | Image Credit: Jason Nieh and Ronghui Gu/Columbia Engineering DSI Alumni Download: Tanvi Pareek, Data Scientist at C3.ai May 17 2021 | Columbia University Data Science Institute Prof. Jacob Fish Awarded John von Neumann Medal Apr 02 2021 GEM Graduate Fellowships Boost Emerging Talent in STEM Mar 30 2021 | By Jesse Adams | Credit: courtesy of each fellow 500 W. 120th Street #510 New York, NY 10027 Tel (212) 854-2993 Google Maps Plan a Visit Directory Columbia Engineering Columbia University Privacy Policy Terms of Use Faculty Job Opportunities Make a Gift Contact