Skip to main content Skip to main navigation Open Mobile Navigation Student Health and Wellness About Us Our Team Baylor Telehealth Our Partners Care Team Campus Recreation Counseling Center Health Services Wellness Student Health & Wellness Mind. Body. Spirit. Student Health and Wellness is comprised of five departments: Campus Recreation, Care Team Services, Counseling Services, Health Services, and Wellness. Student Health and Wellness provides a continuum of programs and services designed to meet the physical and emotional wellness needs of both undergraduate and graduate students. More Explore Care Team The Department of Care Team Services is a team of case managers who offer holistic care through creating trusting relationships. We provide support for students dealing with mental health, physical health, academic issues, or anything else that is creating a barrier. Learn More Campus Recreation Baylor Campus Recreation provides a welcoming environment where all students can learn new skills or hone those skills already familiar. Campus Rec believes our programs encourage the entire Baylor community to live active and healthy lives through sports and competition, discovery in the great outdoors, and achievement of personal fitness goals. Learn More Counseling Center The Counseling Services mission is to foster wholeness for every student through caring relationships, cultural humility and integrated mental health services. Learn More Health Services We are comprised of a multidisciplinary staff of physicians, nurse practitioners, a psychiatrist, nurses, a physical therapist, pharmacists, pharmacy technicians, administrative and technical personnel which are available to provide a comprehensive array of services. Learn More Wellness Through programming, services, education, and research, the Department of Wellness seeks to promote holistically healthy lifestyles among Baylor students. Experiences offered through the Department of Wellness are organized into three functional areas: Fitness and Nutrition, Recovery Services, and Education & Outreach. Learn More Baylor Telehealth by Academic Live Care In addition to the robust medical and counseling services offered through the Baylor Health Center and Counseling Center on Baylor’s main campus, the University has partnered with Academic Live Care to expand the medical and counseling services available to students. Learn More Covid Info Flu Vaccine Report It Student Health and Wellness McLane Student Life Center 209 Speight Ave Waco, Tx 76706 (254) 710-7542 About Us Back Our Team Baylor Telehealth Our Partners Back Care Team Campus Recreation Counseling Center Health Services Wellness General Information Academics & Research Administration Admissions Gateways for ... About Baylor Athletics Ask Baylor Bookstore Calendar Campus Map Directory Give Light Give to Baylor Illuminate News Pro Futuris Search Social Media Baylor Libraries College of Arts & Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work George W. Truett Theological Seminary Graduate School Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Louise Herrington School of Nursing Research at Baylor University Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Engineering & Computer Science School of Music More Academics Athletics Human Resources Marketing and Communications Office of General Counsel Office of the President Office of the Provost Operations, Finance & Administration Senior Administration Student Life University Advancement Undergraduate Admissions goBAYLOR Graduate Admissions Baylor Law School Admissions Social Work Graduate Programs George W. Truett Theological Seminary Admissions Online Graduate Professional Education Virtual Tour Visit Campus Alumni & Friends Faculty & Staff Online Graduate Professional Education Parents Prospective Faculty & Staff Prospective Students Students Accessibility Anonymous Reporting Annual Fire Safety and Security Notice Digital Privacy Legal Disclosures Mental Health Resources Report It Title IX Copyright © Baylor® University. All rights reserved. Baylor University • Waco, Texas 76798 • 1-800-229-5678