COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW Details: Studio Art, Master's Master'sStudio Art All Programs College of Fine Arts Studio Art Wichita State's Master of Fine Arts in Studio Art will help you take your artistic talents—and career—to a higher level. This interdisciplinary program combines research, overseas travel, professional networking and community engagement. You'll enjoy access to internationally acclaimed guest artists, private studio space and financial support through scholarships and teaching assistantships. Learn how Studio Art is the right fit for you. Request Info Start Your Application Applied learning at Wichita State At Wichita State, applied learning is everything. In fact, every degree we offer has a guaranteed applied learning or research experience built right into it equipping you with the relevant skills and experience to make you workforce ready before graduation. Learn about our innovative approach Admission to the program For admission into the MFA program, you must: Be admitted into the WSU Graduate School Submit an application, statement of intent and artist's statement to the School of Art, Design and Creative Industries Submit a resume, three letters of recommendation and portfolio For additional admission details, click on the link below. Admission requirements Inside the Program Students take part in citywide initiative to beautify downtown's Douglas Design District Sometimes being an art student isn't just about what you get to do on campus. There are a multitude of opportunities to spread your creativity throughout the Wichita area. Students in the "Introduction to Community & Social Practices" class took part in the citywide 2020 Vision initiative to create a street mural in the Douglas Design District. Utilizing industrial paint sprayers and large 10x12 foot stencils, the students painted sections of the street in a modern, yet classical design to symbolize a unified community district and celebrates the diversity of the many small businesses and people that call the area home. Curriculum To complete this three-year program, every student takes MFA core courses, in addition to the required courses in their chosen disciplines. You may choose from the following disciplines: Ceramics Painting Photo Media Printmaking Sculpture You'll also complete a terminal project in order to earn the MFA. For specific discipline curriculum, click the link below. View the curriculum Careers An MFA degree in studio art from Wichita State will nurture your creativity and give you the knowledge, skills and connections for successful careers in art, design and education. Learn more about careers in this field 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©