Skip to main content Temple University Explore Temple’s Schools and Colleges Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Support Temple Temple University Search Site Search Full Menu Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees President History & Traditions Temple Health News & Media Offices Public Information Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Development Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Libraries Jazz Voice Certificate (Undergraduate) You are here Home Academics Degrees and Programs Jazz Voice Certificate (Undergraduate) Apply Request More Info Jazz Voice Certificate (Undergraduate) Admissions Jazz Voice Undergraduate Certificate Build your abilities as a jazz lyricist and elevate your performance skills with an Undergraduate Certificate in Jazz Voice in Temple’s Boyer College of Music and Dance. Take weekly voice lessons and participate in small choral and jazz ensembles with at least one public performance per semester while pursuing this 12-credit certificate. Become a more proficient jazz singer and develop your own unique sound. You’ll practice vocal work comprising articulation, interpretation, jazz phrasing, rhythmic and melodic improvisation, and vocal technique and delivery. Jazz Studies faculty in the Boyer College of Music and Dance are internationally renowned artists and regularly present master classes and guest performances alongside notable artists and educators. Additionally, they host Jazz at Lincoln Center’s Essentially Ellington Regional Jazz Festival. Boyer jazz alumni perform, compose film scores, record with major labels and teach jazz to students around the county. Classes & Curriculum Students pursuing the Jazz Voice Undergraduate Certificate can complete their program in four or six semesters. Courses will include Choral Ensemble, Jazz Ensemble, Music Theory and Private Voice for Non-Music Majors. Learn more about Jazz Voice Undergraduate Certificate coursework. Tuition & Fees The tuition for this Certificate Program is based on school or college of your major, program degree level (undergraduate or graduate), course load (full- or part-time), in-state or out-of-state residency, and more. Learn more about our tuition and fees. Ensembles Jazz Ensembles Boyer boasts a number of jazz ensembles that range in level and style. You also have the opportunity during the first two weeks of the semester to enroll in small jazz ensembles, coached by Jazz Studies faculty members. Temple University Jazz Band is Boyer’s premier jazz band. It performs on Temple’s Main Campus and throughout the Greater Philadelphia region, and it hosts the annual Essentially Ellington Eastern Regional High School Jazz Band Festival. Temple University Lab Band has served as the opening act for the Temple University Jazz Band’s Kimmel Center performances and as the headliner for the annual Big Band Dance swing dance held each spring in The Underground at the Howard Gittis Student Center. The band has also performed at the Temple Performing Arts Center and in Tomlinson Theater. Jazz Band Number Three provides an environment in which students can improve application and knowledge of ballad concepts, ensemble and section blend, expansion of dynamic range and rhythmic interpretation. The repertoire covers a wide chronological range, from the Count Basie and Duke Ellington catalogs to contemporary arrangements and compositions. Our Academic Advisors The Center for the Performing and Cinematic Arts has a centralized advising office with five staff members. This advising team serves all undergraduate students in the Boyer School of Music and Dance and the School of Theater, Film and Media Arts. Advisors help students navigate the undergraduate curriculum for each degree program. The academic advising team for Music, Dance, Theater, and Film and Media Arts majors is located in Mitten Hall, Suite 200 West. To schedule an advising appointment based on your individual needs or for more help, contact the advising team. Phone: 215-204-8301 Schedule an advising appointment. Program Contact Contact the following faculty for information on the Jazz Voice Undergraduate Certificate. Terell Stafford is the director of Jazz Studies. Phone: 215-204-8036 Email: terell.stafford@temple.edu Accreditation The Boyer College of Music and Dance is accredited by the American Music Therapy Association, National Association of Schools of Music, National Association of Schools of Dance and Pennsylvania Department of Education. BC-JZVC-CERT Additional Program Information School/College Site View Program Details Go back to AcademicsMore in Jazz Voice Certificate (Undergraduate) Admissions Apply Request More Info Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Calendar Policies Social Media TUportal TUmail Accessibility Careers at Temple Safety & Emergency Information Ethics & Compliance Privacy Statement Professional Licensure Disclosures Follow Temple University Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community. Apply Request More Info