Skip to content Columbia University Irving Medical Center Find People Events Faculty and Staff Resources Give Now Search About Us About Us Facts and Figures Explore CUIMC Events Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion at CUIMC Community Development and Alumni Explore CUIMC Leadership and Administration A-Z Listing Affiliated Hospitals Campus Map and Directions Campus Resources Contact CUIMC Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion At CUIMC, we are committed to continuous improvement in providing culturally inclusive medical education and clinical care. Learn About Our Commitment Education Education Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons Mailman School of Public Health School of Nursing College of Dental Medicine VP&S Columbia Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons is dedicated to developing the next generation of leaders in medicine Learn About Our Academic Programs Research Research The Louisa Gross Horwitz Prize Columbia Technology Ventures Research Administration Columbia Clinical Innovation Lab Patient Care Patient Care ColumbiaDoctors Children's Health Columbia Primary Care Herbert Irving Comprehensive Cancer Center ColumbiaDoctors Dentistry Digital Health Services at Columbia Find a Doctor Search for a provider by specialty, expertise, location and insurance. Schedule an appointment online. Find a Doctor News News For the Media Share Your News CUIMC Update CUIMC Celebrates Columbia Medicine Read the latest news stories about CUIMC faculty, research, and events Explore Our News COVID-19 Resources for CUIMC COVID-19 Resources for CUIMC COVID-19 Information for Patients COVID-19 Campus Safety for Employees and Students COVID-19 Vaccine Information For CUIMC Employees and Students COVID-19 Information and Resources for Clinical Staff COVID-19 Vaccine Information Learn about COVID-19 vaccine availability and requirements for employees and students at CUIMC Get the Latest Information You are here Home > COVID-19 Resources for CUIMC > COVID-19 Vaccine Information For CUIMC Employees and Students > May 7, 2021: Update on COVID-19 Vaccine Distribution COVID-19 Information for Patients COVID-19 Campus Safety for Employees and Students COVID-19 Vaccine Information For CUIMC Employees and Students COVID-19 Information and Resources for Clinical Staff May 7, 2021: Update on COVID-19 Vaccine Distribution Dear Colleagues, At least 55% of New York City residents who are 18 and over have received one dose of their vaccine, and 41% are fully vaccinated. We strongly encourage everyone to get vaccinated and complete their series and ask each of you to encourage your friends, family and community members. The key to ending the pandemic is for everyone to be vaccinated fully. At present, the FDA is reviewing Pfizer’s data on vaccination of 12-15 year olds and authorization for this age group could come as soon as next week! Pfizer also indicated that they plan to request an expansion of the EUA for ages 2-11 years in September. This would be an important milestone since last week, children made up 22.4% of new SARS-CoV-2 cases, a share that has been growing. As you may have read, starting this fall, Columbia University has decided to make the COVID-19 vaccination mandatory for all students who are present on campus. Religious and medical exemptions will be accepted, as they are for the influenza and measles vaccines, in accordance with New York State public health laws. This decision was essential to ensuring the health of Columbia students and the broader University and surrounding community, and also to contain the spread of the virus in New York City, one of the most severely affected locations in the country throughout this past 13 months. Vaccine Safety The CDC, FDA and NYC have resumed recommending vaccinating with the J&J (Janssen) COVID-19 vaccine. The CDC and FDA had temporarily paused use of the vaccine while they investigated a very small number (0.0002% of vaccinations) of cases of thrombocytopenia (low platelets) and thrombosis (blood clots) among 6.8 million patients. This pause and investigation highlights that vaccine safety is a top priority and processes are in place to monitor safety following an EUA, and to investigate carefully ANY serious events and side effects. Health care providers administering the vaccine and vaccine recipients or caregivers should review the Janssen COVID-19 Vaccine Fact Sheet for Healthcare Providers Administering Vaccine and Fact Sheet for Recipients and Caregivers, which have been revised to include information about the risk of this syndrome. Vaccine Administration Vaccinations continue in the Armory for second dose only. Vaccinations are also continuing in the Black Building and 51 W 51 for faculty, staff, students, family members, patients and community members: AnyNew Yorker 16 years of age and older can schedule appointments in Connect and get vaccinated. Scheduling information is available at the VaccineTogetherNY website. Vaccination for the community has begun in the Wintergarden in CHONY. Patients or community members who are 16-17 years old whose condition may require they be vaccinated at a pediatric specific site can be scheduled at 21 Audubon Saturday clinic. Additional Reminder Please continue to wear face coverings (preferably surgical masks or other two-ply face coverings), practice physical distancing, and wash hands frequently, even after you have been vaccinated. These measures, in addition to vaccinations, minimize the opportunity for the virus to replicate and mutate and the disease to spread. Thank you and stay safe! Magda Sobieszczyk, MD, MPH Chief of Infectious Diseases and Co-Chair of the CUIMC COVID-19 Vaccine Committee Melissa Stockwell, MD, MPH Chief of the Division of Child and Adolescent Health and Co-Chair of the CUIMC COVID-19 Vaccine Committee Columbia University Irving Medical Center NewYork-Presbyterian About Us Careers News Education Patient Care Research Resources at CUIMC Columbia University Irving Medical Center 630 West 168th Street New York, NY 10032 United States Follow Us Facebook Twitter YouTube LinkedIn Instagram Back to top