Skip to main content Skip to primary site menu Skip to primary site search Google Tag Manager Research at Brown Show/Hide Home Conducting Research at Brown Centers, Institutes and Libraries Undergraduate Research Assistance How Do I...? People Kerri Evans Director Kerri currently serves as Director of the RAIS team. She is primarily responsible for the management of the eRA Systems supported by RAIS, in addition to ensuring a happy and healthy environment for the RAIS team. Kerri joined Brown University in 2015 and the RAIS team in 2017. Kerri earned her Master's degree which prepared her for the relationship and team building that comes with leading a team. Kerri can be found cheering on the New England Patriots, practicing yoga, escaping to Florida, or curled up with her cats and dogs with a good book in her free time. Martha Hagopian Senior Research Services Business Analyst Martha is currently a Senior Research Services Business Analyst on the RAIS team. Her primary responsibility is to manage reporting requests from OVPR and from the various departments and centers across the Brown research community. Martha has been at Brown for 2 years. Prior to joining Brown, she was in the corporate world, where she worked for various industries including, banking, pharmaceutical, and software providers. She brought to Brown a wealth of experience from the corporate world where she played various roles as a business analyst, quality assurance manager, project manager and software developer. When she is not juggling report requests and Coeus help tickets, she enjoys reading and taking her dog for long walks. Jackie Kocab Galligan Senior Research Services Business Analyst Jackie is primarily responsible for the Human Subjects module and serves as a back-up for Agreements, COI, Grants, and Lab Animals. She has worked closely with the Brown research community for 8 years and in conjunction with local hospitals in both human subjects and animal research. Jackie received her Masters in Pharmacology and Toxicology, has conducted both human and animal research, and continues to advocate for and support researchers in all capacities. She serves on a number of Boards and committees at Brown and is committed to contributing to the improvement of the University and greater community. When Jackie is away from the University and truly offline, she is playing in the dirt at her family's organic farm or hiking trails around New England with her two children and husband. Angela McDonnell Research Services Business Analyst Angela is a Research Services Business Analyst for RAIS. Her primary responsibility is to manage reporting requests from OVPR and from the various departments and centers across the Brown research community. Prior to joining Brown, she was in the corporate world, where she worked in the pharmaceutical industry. She brought to Brown a wealth of experience in operations, reporting, and project management. When she is not juggling report requests and Coeus help tickets, she enjoys spending time with her family and dog. Maria Mento Senior Research Services Business Analyst Maria is a Senior Research Services Business Analyst on the RAIS team. She currently is the lead for the InfoEd Researcher Conflict of Interest module. She also supports the Brown community working on Coeus Helpdesk support, various Workday related initiatives and most recently the Huron Grants implementation project. Prior to joining Brown, Maria was in the corporate world where she held leadership roles at various financial institutions with a focus on Information Technology and Operational Risk Management, project management, process improvement, and strategic training initiatives. Maria received a Master in Business Administration from Bryant University and enjoys tennis, theatre/arts, and physical fitness. Andrea Mucci Associate Director Andrea serves as Associate Director for RAIS and is primarily responsible for providing team leadership and support, RAIS Helpdesk oversight, as well as the Huron Grants modules' implementation. She has served the Brown community for over 5 years. Prior to transitioning to Brown, Andrea held various roles in the field of research administration at the University of Michigan. She received a Bachelor of Science from Eastern Michigan University and enjoys day hikes, flower gardening, and local community engagement. Annie Yoo Senior Research Services Business Analyst Annie arrived to Brown in 2016. She is primarily responsible for managing the Lab Animals module for Brown’s animal research community and serves as a back-up for the IRB module. Annie received her Master’s in Animal Public Policy and continues to hold a passion for commitment to ensure the responsible care and humane use of all animals. When she’s not tackling tickets with end users during helpdesk or trying to keep her feline friends out of Zoom meetings, you can find Annie playing video games, running or camping. Contact If you require Coeus or InfoEd technical support, please submit a Coeus/InfoEd Support ticket. If you require a report, please submit a RAIS reporting request. For all other general questions, please contact [email protected]. Conducting Research at Brown Finding Funding Research Strategy and Development (ORSD) Preparing and Submitting a Proposal Managing an Award Sponsored Projects (OSP) Research Compliance (IRB, IACUC, COI, Export Control, Research Data Management and Data Use Agreements) Brown Technology Innovations Research Administration Information Systems (RAIS) Coeus InfoEd InfoEd Knowledge Center InfoEd Training NIH Commons & NSF IDs Sponsored Project Reporting ERAF Newsletter People Huron Research Management Support (RMS) Research Agreements and Contracting International Research & Activities Responsible Conduct of Research (RCR) How Do I...? 2022 Research Achievement Award Winners About the Office Newsletter Forms and Policies Training and Outreach Graduate Student Resources Explore Brown University Search Brown Show/Hide Learn More About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life Find A to Z Index People Directory Information for Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Top Destinations Global Brown Watson Institute Graduate School Alpert Medical School School of Public Health School of Engineering Office of the Vice President for Research 350 Eddy Street | Brown University | Box 1937 | Providence, RI 02912 Vice President for Research 401-863-7408 [email protected] Research Strategy and Development 401-863-7999 [email protected] Brown Technology Innovations 401-863-7499 [email protected] Office of Sponsored Projects 401-863-2777 [email protected] Research Administration and Information Systems 401-863-2777 [email protected] Office of Research Integrity 401-863-3050 [email protected] @brownuresearch Giving to Brown Brown University Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-1000 Maps & Directions / Contact Us / Accessibility © 2022 Brown University Connect: [email protected] Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram iTunes U Google+ LinkedIn SnapChat