Skip to main content Search form Search Information For Current Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Employers Contact Give About Search Menu Public Health Now News Events Publications Topics Student Voices Celebrating the Centennial Our Work to Address COVID-19 Columbia Public Health Magazine Academics Departments Degrees Course Directory Calendar Policy & Procedures Office of Education Research Featured Research Global Health Centers Programs Grants & Awards Corporate Partnerships People Our Faculty Current Students Friends and Supporters Partners Alumni Become a Student Meet Our Faculty Life & Community Degree Finder How to Apply Career Services More Information Master of Public Health Degree Programs Certificate Program Core Curriculum Search You are here Home Become a Student Career Services About Winter Storm Update/Impacts to Campus and Services Last Updated 12:50pm Fri May 6 See Coronavirus Updates for information on campus protocols. Career Planning Calendar Career Planning Calendar About Mission The Columbia University Mailman School Career Services team (part of the Office of Careers and Practice) guides, educates, and facilitates connections for Mailman School students and alumni, to build the next generation of public health leaders. Guide: We provide empathetic career counseling and coaching to help you explore, develop, and refine your career vision and goals, now and throughout the lifelong career development process. Educate: We train you to develop your skills in self-marketing, communications, professional etiquette, and relationship-building, to empower you to achieve your career and professional goals. Facilitate Connections: We actively cultivate school-wide partnerships with a broad range of relevant employers and practicum sites, and establish alumni and student networks, to increase your professional opportunities. We encourage students and alumni to: Schedule an appointment with a Career Services staff member for career counseling/advising including resume writing, career planning, interview practice, job offer negotiation, or graduate/medical school applications. Reach out to the Field Practice team if you have questions about your practicum requirements, scope of work, or schoolwide practicum opportunities. Log in to CareerLink and visit our Courseworks site to download handouts, watch videos, take our self-paced career development course and access the Mailman School Career Handbook. Visit our Resource Room, which houses a career reference library, computers, printer, fax, scanner, and copier. Review our web pages to become familiar with our career management services and resources. Attend our events, including workshops, employer presentations, and career fairs, listed in the CareerLink calendar. The Career Services team is located in the Allan Rosenfield Building at 722 West 168th Street, Suite 1003. To schedule an appointment, use CareerLink. Email questions to msphocs [at] cumc.columbia.edu. FAQ Is there an on-campus recruiting program? We host large two career fairs each year, one in the fall and one in the spring. Participating employers represent government, nonprofit, academic, research, consulting, and pharmaceutical organizations and more. Employers also frequently visit campus for information sessions, and certain employers conduct schedules of on-campus interviews. Does the Office of Career Services manage a listserv? Weekly during the academic year and bi-weekly in the summer, the Office of Careers & Practice distributes weekly announcements, featuring full-time, part-time, and internship opportunities, as well as career management topics, to current students and alumni. Matriculated students are automatically subscribed to this newsletter. More to Explore Friday 03June COVID-19: From Causes to ConsequencesMay 27 2022 For Wetland Plants, Sea-Level Rise Stamps Out Benefits of Higher CO2May 18 2022 Survey Finds High Rates of Depression Among Latin American Health Care ProvidersMay 18 2022 Commencement Ceremony Celebrates Class of 2022May 17 2022 Sign up for Transmission Columnbia Mailman Connect with Us Public Health Now News Events Publications Topics Student Voices Academics Departments Degrees Course Directory Calendar Policy & Procedures Office of Education Research Featured Research Global Health Centers Programs Grants & Awards Corporate Partnerships People Our Faculty Current Students Friends and Supporters Partners Alumni Become a Student Meet Our Faculty Life & Community Degree Finder How to Apply Career Services More Information Columbia University Mailman School of Public Health | 722 West 168th St. NY, NY 10032 Site Map Privacy Columbia University Irving Medical Center Copyright © Columbia University 2019 Information For Current Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Employers