Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Summer School Contact Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact PreviousNext Take Action Admissions Schedule of Classes Registration Visiting Students Home Summer School Knock out some courses this summer. The University of Memphis offers undergraduate and graduate courses in ten colleges and professional schools and more than 30 departments. Study the Fine Arts, Humanities, Social Sciences, Natural Sciences, Engineering, Nursing, Business, Law, or Education. Continue making progress in your degree program by taking online courses anywhere you have a high-speed Internet connection and a home or laptop computer. The UofM reviewed its summer course offerings to ensure that the classes in the highest demand are among those offered during the summer. The summer offerings also are intended to align with degree-pathway initiatives to create faster, clearer paths to degree completion within four years. Admissions > Schedule of Classes > Registration > For questions about the Summer 2022 schedule, contact the Registrar’s Office at registrar@memphis.edu. For questions about Summer 2022 fees, contact University and Student Business Services at usbs@memphis.edu. For Summer Financial Aid information, visit memphis.edu/financialaid/summer.php . First Time Students If you are first time student, you will need to fill out an Admissions Application. Check the box that says "non degree student" if you are here for summer school only. If you have not previously applied to the UofM, you will also need to submit an application fee ($25 for domestic students, $50 for international students). To complete this, you will need a credit card and an email address. Please note that students attending on a non-degree status are not eligible for financial aid. Students from other universities who are only taking summer classes at the University of Memphis do not need to submit a transcript or other academic credentials to apply as non-degree seeking student. Summer 3+3 Scholarship Under this program, we will provide a direct grant to cover the tuition cost of the second 3 credit hour class taken by eligible students. The direct financial support will be calculated based on your residency status for the assessed tuition and applied as a credit/refund on your account. Sophomores not eligible for the 3+3 program will be provided a $500 grant toward their second 3 credit course. The funds will be credited as a refund on the students account. Learn more about the scholarship > Junior and Senior Summer Grant For our upper class student populations (juniors and seniors), we are offering a $500 grant to assist with their costs when enrolled for two classes (six credits or more) in the summer 2022 semester. Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 3/28/22 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.