Skip to Main Content Brown University Secondary Navigation Navigation About Events For You Current Students Faculty Staff Parents & Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Give to Brown Site Navigation Academics Undergraduate Graduate & Professional Schools & Colleges Academic Departments Centers & Institutes Libraries & Collections Global Education Non-Degree Programs Admission & Aid Undergraduate Admission Graduate Admission Medical School Admission Executive & Professional Admission Tuition & Aid Research Find a Researcher Industry Engagement Conducting Research at Brown Life at Brown Athletics & Recreation Community Health & Wellness Housing & Dining Life in Providence Student Organizations University Events News Featured Events For Journalists Search Menu Jenell Grier-Spratley Class of 2019 In her classes, Jenell Grier-Spratley is learning about systemic inequity and injustice — and gaining the experiences and tools to effect change. Breadcrumb Home Life at Brown Sub Navigation In This Section Athletics & Recreation Community Health & Wellness Housing & Dining Life in Providence Student Organizations University Events Jenell Grier-Spratley Class of 2019 In her classes, Jenell Grier-Spratley is learning about systemic inequity and injustice — and gaining the experiences and tools to effect change. The summer before she came to Brown, Jenell Grier-Spratley read “The New Jim Crow,” a book that exposed her to the social injustice of mass incarceration in the United States. “It infuriated me and made me feel powerless,” she says. “But when I arrived at Brown and saw that there were tangible ways to combat the problems of the prison-industrial complex, like volunteering for the Petey Greene Program, I was relieved. I could constructively channel my frustration into positive change.” Through the Petey Greene Program, Jenell tutors incarcerated people in Rhode Island who are working on their education. But that’s one part of Jenell’s work for social justice. She’s also a volunteer with Connect for Health, a local health equity nonprofit, and Brown Elementary After-School Mentoring, a program that pairs Brown student mentors with kids in local public schools. Brown has given me the avenues and the tools to work towards change. – Jenell Grier-Spratley “Brown continuously exposes me to social injustice,” she says, “but, more than anything, Brown has given me the avenues and the tools to work towards change.” As a pre-med student concentrating in health and human biology, Jenell’s ultimate goal is to earn a master’s in public health and become a pediatrician. But she’s already learning firsthand what it’s like to work in the medical field with Brown EMS, a corps of student volunteers who are licensed Rhode Island emergency medical technicians (EMTs). “One important thing I’ve learned from EMS is to be confident in my abilities and understand when and how to ask for help,” she says. “Yes, everyone makes mistakes, but the mistakes you make in medicine affect not just you, but your patient, and your patient's friends and families, so being accurate is important. I've learned to trust my skill set, and whenever I feel unsure of something, I ask my co-EMTs for advice.” As confident and experienced as she is now, Jenell didn’t feel that way her first year. “When I first got to Brown, I was amazed by how much knowledge and talent there was in the students and, honestly, I felt like I would never be able to measure up to everyone else.” Jenell Grier-Spratley is a pre-med student concentrating in health and human biology. It wasn’t long before Jenell felt safe stepping outside her comfort zone because she knew the Brown community would support her. For example, in her first year she was interested in learning more about environmental sustainability, so she joined the Sustainable Food Initiative. “I remember going to the meeting feeling like I didn’t know enough about environmental science to fit into that space, but then I realized, everyone felt that way too! And that’s how we all bonded. We spoke of our hopes of being able to learn more and about the different understandings and backgrounds that we already brought to the space.” To this day, Jenell says that experience encouraged her to continue to explore different communities at Brown because she knew she had something to offer and, more importantly, something to learn. “I wouldn’t say I belong to just one community at Brown because I feel that my interests are multi-faceted,” she says. “Instead, I’ve been able to find my community in a variety of people and places at Brown.” Learn more about: Health and human biology concentration Brown partnerships with Providence schools Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown Social Navigation Facebook Instagram LinkedIn Snapchat Twitter YouTube Social Media Directory © Brown University Brown University For You Current Students Faculty Staff Parents & Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Academics Undergraduate Graduate & Professional Schools & Colleges Academic Departments Centers & Institutes Libraries & Collections Global Education Non-Degree Programs Admission & Aid Undergraduate Admission Graduate Admission Medical School Admission Executive & Professional Admission Tuition & Aid Research Find a Researcher Industry Engagement Conducting Research at Brown Life at Brown Athletics & Recreation Community Health & Wellness Housing & Dining Life in Providence Student Organizations University Events News Featured Events For Journalists Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation About Events For You Give to Brown All of Brown.edu People News Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Jenell Grier-Spratley Open details for Jenell Grier-Spratley Bookmark this Page