Skip to main content Temple University Explore Temple’s Schools and Colleges Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Support Temple Temple University Search Site Search Full Menu Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees President History & Traditions Temple Health News & Media Offices Public Information Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Development Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Libraries Applied Behavior Analysis Certificate (Undergraduate) You are here Home Academics Degrees and Programs Applied Behavior Analysis Certificate (Undergraduate) Apply Request More Info Applied Behavior Analysis Certificate (Undergraduate) Applied Behavior Analysis Undergraduate Certificate The Applied Behavior Analysis Undergraduate Certificate from Temple’s College of Education and Human Development prepares students to further their education in the field and pursue careers that focus on applying behavior analysis in community settings. Through the certificate program, students learn how to analyze environment-behavior interactions in order to develop ecologically sound, individualized interventions. Students will learn to apply the science of behavior analysis to various populations in diverse settings. The program is designed to allow students to meet the coursework requirements for the Board Certified Assistant Behavior Analyst credential. It also prepares those students who wish to further their studies to apply for the Master of Science in Education degree in Applied Behavior Analysis. The certificate program requires 15 credits for completion, and can be completed in less than one year as a full-time student, and two years as a part-time student. The maximum amount of time allowed to complete the program is four years. All courses are taught on Temple’s Main Campus. Classes & Curriculum The following courses are required for completion of the certificate. Analyzing and Changing Behavior Concepts and Principles of Behavior Analysis Ethics and Applied Behavior Analysis Evaluating Behavior Change Interventions Understanding Autism Related Graduate Degrees Applied Behavior Analysis MSEd Early Childhood & Special Education MEd School Psychology EdS School Psychology PhD Related Graduate Certificates Applied Behavior Analysis Autism Endorsement Disability Studies Careers The Applied Behavior Analysis certificate helps prepare students who want to pursue careers that involve behavioral health; clinical consultation; general and special education teachers; organizational behavior management; and research. Tuition & Fees In keeping with Temple’s commitment to access and affordability, the Certificate Program offers a competitive level of tuition with multiple opportunities for financial support. Tuition rates are set annually by the university and are affected by multiple factors, including program degree level (undergraduate or graduate), course load (full- or part-time), in-state or out-of-state residency, and more. Learn more about our tuition and fees. These tuition costs apply to the 2021–2022 academic year. Pennsylvania resident: $16,488.00 per year Out-of-state: $29,712.00 per year Our Advisors Advisors will guide you in navigating the curriculum and selecting the appropriate coursework to achieve your academic and professional goals. College of Education students are encouraged to see an academic advisor every semester. Learn more about College of Education advising resources, and see a list of academic advisors. Program Contact Jason Travers, associate professor in the Teaching and Learning Department, is faculty coordinator for the Applied Behavior Analysis Certificate (Undergraduate) program. Email: jason.travers@temple.edu ED-ABA-CERT Additional Program Information Visit College Site Go back to AcademicsMore in Applied Behavior Analysis Certificate (Undergraduate) Apply Request More Info Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Calendar Policies Social Media TUportal TUmail Accessibility Careers at Temple Safety & Emergency Information Ethics & Compliance Privacy Statement Professional Licensure Disclosures Follow Temple University Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community. Apply Request More Info