Skip to Main Content Brown University Secondary Navigation Navigation About Events For You Current Students Faculty Staff Parents & Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Give to Brown Site Navigation Academics Undergraduate Graduate & Professional Schools & Colleges Academic Departments Centers & Institutes Libraries & Collections Global Education Non-Degree Programs Admission & Aid Undergraduate Admission Graduate Admission Medical School Admission Executive & Professional Admission Tuition & Aid Research Find a Researcher Industry Engagement Conducting Research at Brown Life at Brown Athletics & Recreation Community Health & Wellness Housing & Dining Life in Providence Student Organizations University Events News Featured Events For Journalists Search Menu About Brown Brown is a leading research university distinct for its student-centered learning and deep sense of purpose. Our students, faculty and staff are driven by the idea that their work will have an impact in the world. Sub Navigation In This Section Brown at a Glance History Leadership Brown and Providence Visit About Brown Brown is a leading research university distinct for its student-centered learning and deep sense of purpose. Our students, faculty and staff are driven by the idea that their work will have an impact in the world. Founded in 1764, Brown is a leading research university home to world-renowned faculty, and also an innovative educational institution where the curiosity, creativity and intellectual joy of students drives academic excellence. The spirit of the undergraduate Open Curriculum infuses every aspect of the University. Brown is a place where rigorous scholarship, complex problem-solving and service to the public good are defined by intense collaboration, intellectual discovery and working in ways that transcend traditional boundaries. Providence, Rhode Island — Brown's home for more than two and a half centuries — is a vibrant place to live, work and study, a stimulating hub for innovation, and a city rich in cultural diversity. 7,043 undergraduate students 2,629 graduate students 585 medical school students 6,000 summer, visiting and online students 816 full-time faculty Solutions to critical, complex problems Brown students and faculty are tackling the nation’s opioid crisis. Planning the next Mars landing site. Uncovering the locations of ancient civilizations. Advising world leaders on new political models. Exploring new frontiers in multimedia arts. In each of their intellectual endeavors, our scholars and researchers are uncommonly driven by the belief that their work must — and will — have an impact in their communities, in society and the world. We are a learning community grounded in a commitment of respect for the diversity of viewpoints that is fundamentally essential to intellectual discovery. We encourage the right of all individuals to express ideas and perspectives — and we embrace the value of vigorous debate in pursuit of knowledge. President Paxson on Freedom of Expression In a Washington Post forum, Brown President Christina Paxson defended the role that academic freedom plays in advancing knowledge. Visit Page Open details for President Paxson on Freedom of Expression Impact: Research at Brown Impact is a magazine devoted solely to the University’s research. It tells the stories of faculty and student achievements, and their influence in solving critical problems in the world through their exploration. Visit Page Open details for Impact: Research at Brown Student Journalists with a Statewide Impact An undergrad-reported series on elder abuse, launched in the Providence Journal, may influence Rhode Island policy. Visit Page Open details for Student Journalists with a Statewide Impact Innovative, student-centered learning Brown’s academic excellence is rooted in a student-centered model of learning. The Open Curriculum is a flexible but rigorous approach to education that pushes students to be creative thinkers, intellectual risk-takers and entrepreneurial problem-solvers. Brown undergraduates enjoy the freedom to study what they choose and the flexibility to discover what they love. Students leave Brown prepared to thrive as independent, innovative leaders, no matter what path they choose. Brown’s graduate and professional programs offer intensive learning and research experiences that respect and develop each scholar’s interests and ideas within their intended specialty — equipping them with the tools they need to become the next generation of leaders in their fields. The Open Curriculum Brown’s flexible yet rigorous approach to education pushes undergraduates to be deeply creative thinkers, intellectual risk-takers and entrepreneurial problem-solvers. Visit Page Open details for The Open Curriculum News about Undergraduate Research At Brown, undergraduates are creators, leaders and doers who are not satisfied with merely raising questions — they learn to confront, address and solve problems facing society, the nation and the world. Visit Page Open details for News about Undergraduate Research Educational Innovation Brown has earned a global reputation for its innovative undergraduate educational experience. Visit Page Open details for Educational Innovation Scholarship that transcends boundaries Brown brings people together in creative, unexpected ways. By transcending boundaries between fields of study, scholars are better equipped to create opportunities, address challenges and explore areas of inquiry ripe for discovery. This intensely collaborative culture infuses all of the University’s endeavors. These are just a few illustrations of how Brown convenes the diverse range of perspectives, insights and expertise that today’s complex scientific and societal challenges demand: Carney Institute With researchers from departments ranging from neurology and neurosurgery to engineering, computer science and more, the Carney Institute for Brain Science is deciphering the brain and pursuing breakthroughs for some of the world’s most devastating diseases, such as ALS and Alzheimer’s. Carney Institute for Brain Science Watson Institute for International and Public Affairs Economists, historians, political scientists and sociologists at the Watson Institute for International and Public Affairs inform each other’s efforts to craft policy solutions that can change systems and societies for the better. Watson Institute for International and Public Affairs Institute at Brown for Environment and Society At the Institute at Brown for Environment and Society, scholars in the sciences, social sciences and humanities work together to confront the causes and impacts of climate change. Institute at Brown for Environment and Society Research at Brown Brown is a leading research university, where stellar faculty and student researchers deploy deep content knowledge to generate new discoveries on those issues and many more. What sets their work apart? Collectively, Brown's researchers are driven by the idea that their work will have a positive impact in the world. Learn more about Research at Brown Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown Social Navigation Facebook Instagram LinkedIn Snapchat Twitter YouTube Social Media Directory © Brown University Brown University For You Current Students Faculty Staff Parents & Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Academics Undergraduate Graduate & Professional Schools & Colleges Academic Departments Centers & Institutes Libraries & Collections Global Education Non-Degree Programs Admission & Aid Undergraduate Admission Graduate Admission Medical School Admission Executive & Professional Admission Tuition & Aid Research Find a Researcher Industry Engagement Conducting Research at Brown Life at Brown Athletics & Recreation Community Health & Wellness Housing & Dining Life in Providence Student Organizations University Events News Featured Events For Journalists Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation About Events For You Give to Brown All of Brown.edu People News Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search About Brown Open details for About Brown Bookmark this Page