Brown University Quick Exit General Health Physical Health Acne Asthma Breast Exams Bronchitis Colds Concussion Headaches Meningitis Mononucleosis Sleep Seasonal Flu Sun Safety and Skin Cancer Stomach Flu Testicular Self-Exams Travel and Health Yeast Infection Emotional Wellbeing Mindfulness Sleep Stress Self-Care Techniques for Stress Relief Wellness on Campus Social Wellbeing Community, Connection and Coping: Remote Resources Consent Economic Stress Roommate Relationships Unlearning Toxic Masculinity Reproductive Health Abortion Adoption Amenorrhea Bacterial Vaginosis Colposcopy Erectile Dysfunction Pregnancy Gender Care GYN Visits HPV Vaccine Menstruation Pelvic Inflammatory Disease Pregnancy Tests Premature Ejaculation Prenatal Care Testicular Self-Exams Accessing Care Gender Care GYN Visits LGBTQ Health Care at Health Services Men's Health Exams Pregnancy Tests STI Testing Options Resources and Links Nutrition & Eating Concerns Eating Well at Brown Being a Vegetarian Dietary Guidelines Eating Off Meal Plan Meal Plan And Dining Information Supplements Eating Concerns and Body Image Body Image Concerns Eating Concerns Help at Brown Sports Nutrition Relative Energy Deficiency in Sport (RED-S) Sports Nutrition Accessing Care Help at Brown Worried about a Friend Sexual Health Sex 101 SHAG! Erectile Dysfunction Orgasm Premature Ejaculation Sex and Alcohol Sex Toys Sexually Explicit Media Contraception Birth Control Pills Cervical Cap Condoms Depo-Provera Emergency Contraception Fertility Awareness Method Implant Internal Condoms IUD Ortho Evra (The Patch) Ring Spermicides and Lubricants The Recent Election & Contraception Access Withdrawal (Pull Out Method) Reproductive Health Abortion Adoption Amenorrhea Colposcopy Erectile Dysfunction Pregnancy GYN Visits HPV Vaccine Menstruation Pelvic Inflammatory Disease Pregnancy Tests Prenatal Care Testicular Self-Exams Yeast Infection Safer Sex Ship n SHAG! Sexual Health and Safer Sex During Covid-19 Abstinence Condoms Dental Dams Internal Condoms Post Exposure Prophylaxis (PEP) Pre Exposure Prophylaxis (PrEP) Safer Sex Withdrawal (Pull Out Method) STIs AIDS/HIV Bacterial Vaginosis Chlamydia Colposcopy Gonorrhea Hepatitis B Herpes HPV and Genital Warts HPV Vaccine Molluscum Contagiosum Oral Sex and STIs Pelvic Inflammatory Disease Pubic Lice and Scabies Sexually Transmitted Infections Syphilis Talking with a Partner STI Testing Options Trichomoniasis Urinary Tract Infections Yeast Infection Sexual Assault & Dating Violence Get Help Sexual Assault Response Line SHARE Advocates Dating Violence First Five Days After an Assault Male Survivors Sexual Violence and Assault Sexual Harassment Stalking Help a Friend SHARE Advocates How to Help a Friend Get Involved in Prevention Interrupting the Red Zone: How we keep each other safe Culture of Respect Collective Sexual Assault Peer Education (SAPE) Help Prevent Sexual Assault Unlearning Toxic Masculinity Relationships and Communication Consent Dating Violence Learn More Common Reactions to Sexual Violence and Assault Predatory Drugs Sexual Misconduct and Title IX Sexual Violence: Key Terms Resources and Links Alcohol & Other Drugs Alcohol Alcohol and Your Body Recognizing a Problem Risks and Realities Sex and Alcohol Ways to Cut Down Other Drugs Caffeine Cocaine Ecstasy Energy Drinks GHB Inhalants Ketamine LSD Marijuana Methamphetamine Predatory Drugs Psilocybin (Mushrooms) Rohypnol Tobacco Smokeless Tobacco Smoking Cessation Tobacco Learn More Law and Policy Summary Educational Links Accessing Care Resources at Brown Off Campus Resources Calling EMS How to Help a Friend Quit Smoking How to Talk to a Friend about Drinking or Drug Use Google Tag Manager Reproductive Health Bacterial Vaginosis What is bacterial vaginosis? Bacterial vaginosis is an overgrowth of several bacteria that normally exist in the vagina. In the past, bacterial vaginosis was called nonspecific vaginitis, Gardnerella vaginitis, Haemophilus vaginitis, Corynebacterium vaginitis, and anaerobic vaginosis. Bacterial vaginosis is generally not thought to be a sexually transmitted infection (STI), because it occurs in people who are and are not sexually active. We include it here because it is more common in people with vaginas who are sexually active and because the symptoms of bacterial vaginosis can be similar to the symptoms of other STIs. What causes it? The exact cause of bacterial vaginosis is unknown. There could be a variety of causes. No single organism causes it. It is a condition in which the natural balance of organisms found in the vagina changes. The healthy vagina normally contains a variety of bacteria. One kind of bacteria, known as lactobacillus, is particularly important. Lactobacilli keep the vagina slightly acidic to help reduce the growth of potentially harmful organisms. People who have bacterial vaginosis lose this protection and have both a large increase in the number of potentially harmful bacteria and a large decrease in the numbers of normal, protective lactobacilli in their vagina. This change in numbers and kinds of bacteria is believed to be the cause of bacterial vaginosis. Is it common? Bacterial vaginosis is widely believed to be even more common than yeast infections. It is the most frequently occurring vaginal infection affecting from 10% to 64% of the people with vaginas at any given time. What are the symptoms? Nearly half of all people with bacterial vaginosis will experience no symptoms at all. When someone does have symptoms, the most common complaint is a foul or "fishy" smelling vaginal odor. This odor frequently increases following intercourse. In a recent survey of medical providers, more than half said that the most common complaint from people with bacterial vaginosis is vaginal odor. Another common symptom is an excessive white or gray discharge with a milk-like consistency that can stain undergarments. How is it diagnosed? A medical provider can detect bacterial vaginosis by examining vaginal secretions under a microscope and checking pH. Occasionally, bacterial vaginosis will be incidentally picked up on a routine Pap smear. How is it treated? Your medical provider may prescribe a medicine you can use vaginally for a prescribed length of time. Sometimes bacterial vaginosis is treated with oral medications. It is important to take the medicine as directed and to abstain from sexual contact until the treatment is completed. Are there any complications associated with bacterial vaginosis? Bacterial vaginosis increases the risk of developing pelvic inflammatory disease, a condition which may require hospitalization. Complications, including infertility, pelvic pain and ectopic pregnancy, may also occur with pelvic inflammatory disease. There is also an increased risk of developing bacterial vaginosis following gynecological surgery. Does my partner need to be treated? Since bacterial vaginosis is not thought to be caused by sexual intercourse, most medical providers will not treat your sexual partner. If your infection should return, your medical provider may recommend treating your partner. What can I do to help prevent recurrences? As with yeast infections and the common cold, many people will experience recurrences of bacterial vaginosis. It is unclear why or how these recurrences or relapses occur. Some general suggestions for good vaginal health include: Avoid spreading bacteria from the rectum to the vagina. After a bowel movement, wipe from front to back, away from the vagina. Clean the vulva thoroughly and keep it dry Avoid douching and using irritating agents such as feminine hygiene sprays and harsh soaps. Avoid tight jeans, panty hose without a cotton crotch or other clothing that can trap moisture. Can I make an appointment at Health Services? If you are a Brown student and you are concerned about bacterial vaginosis, you can make a confidential appointment at Health Services by calling 401.863-3953. Health Services provides a range of services including general health care and emergency medical care. You can request a medical provider by gender or by name. We are located at 13 Brown Street on the corner of Brown and Charlesfield Streets. Related Links For more information about bacterial vaginosis, you can visit: Planned Parenthood Centers for Disease Control About BWell: Quick Links About Us Staff Confidential Appointments Sexual Assault Response Line Workshops Peer Education Programs Health Empowerment Tools PHONE NUMBERS 401.863-2794 Health Promotion 401.863-3953 Health Services 401.863-6000 Sexual Assault Response Line 401.863-4111 EMS 401.863-3476 Counseling & Psychological Services 401.863-4111 DPS Make an Appointment What is Peer Education? Learn about BWell's Peer Education Programs! Get involved in empowerment and prevention work at Brown. Get Involved Meet Our Staff About Us Make an Appointment Brown University BWell Health Promotion Health and Wellness Brown University Box 1928 450 Brook Street Providence, Rhode Island, 02912 Phone 401-863-2794 Fax 401-863-7953 [email protected] © 2022 Brown University Connect: [email protected] Related Offices Brown EMS Counseling and Psychological Services Health Services Social Media BWell on Facebook SHAG on Facebook BURP on Facebook Health Services on Facebook