Skip to main content Close search Search for people, topics, events, etc. Search Go to homepage Toggle menu Toggle search Close menu Events & Exhibitions Visit Upcoming Events Past Events Fellowship Fellows Become a Fellow Schlesinger Library About the Library Research Services Collections Visit the Library News & Ideas Opportunities For Students For Researchers For Educators Toggle search About Give Media Harvard and Slavery Opportunities For Students For Researchers For Educators About Give Media Harvard and Slavery Radcliffe Careers Toggle information Close detail panel Schlesinger Library curator for gender and society Jenny Gotwals. Photo by Kris Snibbe As you think about the next step in your career, we encourage you to consider joining us at Harvard Radcliffe Institute. We have a wide range of positions in our program offices, at the Schlesinger Library, and in our communications, finance, facilities management, events, fundraising, and human resources departments. We offer opportunities to enhance knowledge and skills, and we encourage professional growth and development. Harvard Radcliffe Institute will always be greater when we draw wisdom and talent from the widest possible pool. This is the principle that has governed Radcliffe’s work for nearly a century and a half and underpins our approach to our community. We value and champion inclusion, equity, diversity, and belonging in every aspect of our work, and are proud to be an Affirmative Action/Equal Opportunity Employer. Learn more about Harvard Radcliffe Institute Read about our work and focus areas View open positions at Harvard Careers website Search jobs open to Harvard College students It’s indescribable how wonderful and yet humbling it is to come to work every day knowing that what we do at the Institute makes a difference. I’m excited to take part in developing and promoting new opportunities while also helping to remove the barriers that prevent access. Dawn Ling Project specialist, Harvard and the Legacy of Slavery There are many things that drew me to work at Radcliffe: its legacy as a pioneering women’s college, embodied in the venerable Schlesinger Library; its interdisciplinary Fellowship Program; the broad slate of free programs that examine many of our most pressing challenges; and the Institute’s commitment to engaging students and the general public. It is remarkable to me that one organization could have all these facets. There are always exciting things happening here. Henry Patrick (Pat) Megley Donor relations coordinator 01 / 02 Slide left Slide right Opportunities Search for jobs at Harvard Careers website Enter "Radcliffe" in the field marked "Search for Jobs" and click "Find Jobs." This will show you a listing of all vacant Radcliffe positions open for recruitment. Go to Harvard Careers website Radcliffe Research Partnerships Work side by side with a Radcliffe fellow. Harvard College students can take part in a research program that students have called “rewarding,” “unique,” and “amazing.” Learn about the Radcliffe Research Partnership program Why Harvard? Harvard is a special place, filled with diverse, energetic, and talented people who are driven to grow and succeed. By working here, you join a vibrant community that advances Harvard’s world-changing mission in meaningful ways, inspires innovation and collaboration, and builds skills and expertise. Learn about Harvard’s benefits, policies, and resources Back to top B a c k t o t o p Get the latest Radcliffe news delivered to your inbox Enter your e-mail address Continue Radcliffe Institute for Advanced Study Harvard University 10 Garden Street Cambridge, MA 02138 Directions Give Now Contact Visit Careers Housing Meeting Spaces Site Map Digital Accessibility Accessibility Harvard University Policies Follow us on Facebook Follow us on Twitter Follow us onInstagram Subscribe to our RSS feed Visit our LinkedIn page Visit our YouTube channel © 2022 President and Fellows of Harvard College