Skip navigation Global Brown Research & Curriculum Global Engagement International Programs Programs & Initiatives Community & Support About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life Information for Current Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors menu Brown University About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life Information for Current Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Search Global Global Brown Research & Curriculum Global Engagement International Programs Programs & Initiatives Community & Support Research & Curriculum Research & Curriculum 510+ Faculty Conducting Research Abroad 470+ Undergraduate Students Abroad 1450+ International Students Loading, please wait... Discipline: All Arts & Humanities Biology & Medicine Life Sciences Physical Sciences Social Sciences Department: All Africana Studies American Studies Anthropology Applied Mathematics Archaeology and the Ancient World Behavioral and Social Sciences Biology Biostatistics Brain and Neural Systems Chemistry Classics Cognitive Linguistic and Psychological Sciences Cogut Humanities Center Comparative Literature Computer Science Earth, Environmental, and Planetary Sciences East Asian Studies Ecology and Evolutionary Biology Economics Education Egyptology and Ancient Western Asian Studies Emergency Medicine Engineering English Environmental Change Initiative Environmental Studies Epidemiology Family Medicine French Studies Geological Sciences German Studies Health Services Policy and Practice Hispanic Studies History History of Art and Architecture International Studies Italian Studies Judaic Studies Judaic Studies, Comparative Literature Language Studies Literary Arts Mathematics Medicine Middle East Studies Modern Culture and Media Molecular Biology Cell Biology and Biochemistry Molecular Microbiology and Immunology Molecular Pharmacology Physiology and Biotechnology Music Neuroscience Obstetrics and Gynecology Orthopaedics Pathology and Laboratory Medicine Pediatrics Pembroke Center Philosophy Physics Political Science Population Studies Portuguese and Brazilian Studies Psychiatry and Human Behavior Religious Studies Slavic Languages Sociology Surgery Theatre Arts and Performance Studies Urban Studies Visual Art Abbona-Sneider, Cristina Senior Lecturer Cristina Abbona-Sneider's research and teaching interests include curriculum design, use of technology in language instruction, techniques of teaching advanced level writing, teaching language and culture through film. Research link Country: Italy Discipline: Arts & Humanities Department: Italian Studies Adashi, Eli Professor Eli Adashi is a former Franklin fellow and Senior Advisor on Global Women's Health to the Secretary of State Office of Global Women's Issues; he is also a member of the Board of Directors of Physicians for Human Rights, a member of the Global Agenda Council on Population Growth of the World Economic Forum, and the chair of the Medical Executive Committee and the Medical Advisory Council of the Jones Foundation for Reproductive Medicine. He is a former member of the Council on Foreign Relations and an advisor to the WHO, the World Bank, the Rockefeller Foundation, and the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation. Research link Countries: Indonesia, China, United Kingdom Discipline: Biology & Medicine Department: Obstetrics and Gynecology Adler Ben Yehuda, Ruth Senior Lecturer Ruth Adler Ben Yehuda’s interests include Hebrew language pedagogy, language learning and technology, music in teaching of foreign languages, the history of the Hebrew language, which includes other Semitic languages, and, of course, Judeo-Arabic (especially of the Jews in Yemen). Research link Countries: Israel, Yemen Discipline: Arts & Humanities Department: Judaic Studies Ahearn, Edward Professor Emeritus Edward Ahearn has research interests in many phases of Comparative Literature and 19th- and 20th-century French literature and poetry, literary theory, and literature and the city. Research link Country: France Discipline: Arts & Humanities Departments: Comparative Literature, French Studies Ahmed, Faiz Assistant Professor Faiz Ahmed's primary research explores the intersection of religious and educational networks, constitutional movements, and "rule of law" ideology in late Ottoman Turkey, Qajar Iran, and Afghanistan during the long 19th century. His current project is a transnational study of Afghanistan's legal history. Research link Countries: Turkey, Iran, Afghanistan, Egypt, United Kingdom, India Discipline: Social Sciences Department: History Ainsworth, Mark Professor Mark Ainsworth’s research interests are the development of efficient and practical computational algorithms for the adaptive solution of systems of partial differential equations (PDEs), their rigorous mathematical analysis and their application to relevant physical problems. In his work, Ainsworth has developed rigorous bounds to quantify and control the accuracy of simulations of a diverse range of applications from electromagnetics working with BAe Systems, to the certification of pipelines in the North Sea Oil industry. His career has included collaborations with colleagues in the UK, Canada, and Australia. Research link Countries: United Kingdom, Canada, Australia Discipline: Physical Sciences Department: Applied Mathematics Aizenman-Stern, Carlos Associate Professor Carlos Aizenman-Stern’s research aims to understand the role of sensory experience in shaping the connectivity and functional properties of developing neural circuits, as well as its implications for neurodevelopmental disorders. Research link Country: Canada Discipline: Biology & Medicine Department: Neuroscience Allen, James Professor James Allen’s research interests include ancient Egyptian grammar and literature, religion, and history. His current research focuses on ancient Egyptian language and the models with which it is studied. Research link Country: Egypt Discipline: Arts & Humanities Department: Egyptology and Ancient Western Asian Studies Almeida, Onesimo Professor Onesimo Almeida's teaching and research interests include: the intellectual and cultural history of Portugal; Portuguese national identity; science in Portugal in the 15th and 16th centuries; Azorean literature and culture; Portuguese-American literature and studies; ideology and worldviews; and philosophy and social sciences. Research link Country: Portugal Discipline: Arts & Humanities Department: Portuguese and Brazilian Studies Amanatidou, Elissavet Senior Lecturer Elissavet Amanatidou's research interests are in FLLT Methodology, testing and evaluation and the role of literature and cultural enquiry in the development of linguistic and cultural competence. Research link Country: Greece Discipline: Arts & Humanities Departments: Classics, Language Studies AnderBois, Scott Assistant Professor Scott AnderBois’s research explores issues in semantics, pragmatics, and their interfaces through a variety of methods including primary fieldwork on Yucatec Maya (an indigenous language of Mexico). He also focuses largely on exploring the various ways in which speakers raise and resolve issues, and keep track of information and its sources both within sentences and in discourse. Research link Country: Mexico Discipline: Life Sciences Department: Anderson, Amanda Professor Amanda Anderson's research focuses on 19th- and 20th-century literature and culture, addressing broad questions of intellectual history, disciplinary formation, and the relation of art and politics. Research link Country: United Kingdom Discipline: Arts & Humanities Department: English Anderson, Brenna Associate Professor Brenna Anderson's research interests include adverse effects of sexually transmitted infections on pregnancy outcomes. She is also interested in reproductive infectious diseases and immunology specifically as they relate to pregnancy outcomes. Research link Country: South Africa Discipline: Biology & Medicine Department: Obstetrics and Gynecology Andreas, Peter Professor Peter Andreas's work bridges the fields of security studies and international political economy. This includes research on transnational crime and crime control, the politics of borders and smuggling, and the political economy of conflict and post-conflict reconstruction. His research has involved fieldwork in Latin America, the United States, Western Europe, and the Balkans. Research link Countries: Bosnia and Herz., Mexico, Canada Discipline: Social Sciences Departments: International Studies, Political Science Armstrong, Paul Professor Paul Armstrong’s ongoing research is on neuroaesthetics. His most recent project examined the neuroscience of reading and art. He is currently working on a book about neuroscience and narrative, as well as a new edition of Heart of Darkness. Research link Countries: United Kingdom, Ireland Discipline: Arts & Humanities Department: English Artenstein, Andrew Adjunct Professor Andrew Artenstein’s research interests are in the areas of anthrax toxins and pathogenesis, biological warfare, civilian biological defense and emerging pathogens. Research link Country: Thailand Discipline: Biology & Medicine Department: Medicine Augusto, Geri Visiting Associate Professor Geri Augusto's research focuses on the dynamics and politics of knowledge in pluralistic societies and in complex interactive systems marked by power inequalities. Her current interests are science and technology policy and higher education policy in the Global South; the interaction between the technosciences and indigenous local knowledges, particularly in Southern Africa, Brazil, the US, and the Caribbean; black transnationalism; and visuality, orality and digitality in Africa and the African Diaspora. Research link Countries: Brazil, South Africa, Tanzania, Jamaica, United States Discipline: Social Sciences Department: Africana Studies Azoulay, Ariella Professor Ariella Azoulay researches revolutions (18th century to the present); she has also done extensive research on the Israeli-Palestinian conflict. Research link Countries: Israel, Palestinian Territories, France Discipline: Arts & Humanities Departments: Comparative Literature, Modern Culture and Media Bach-Coulibaly, Michelle Senior Lecturer Michelle Bach-Coulibaly is a performance artist and educator who, since coming to Brown in 1987, has created over 40 original pieces of contemporary movement theatre for the concert stage that investigate socio-political canvases, cross-cultural narratives, and embodied texts. Since 1990, her work in Mali has been focused upon building Yeredon, a research center for cultural preservation, international collaboration and social activism. Yeredon is the home for the Bloodline Project, a unique international collaboration and edutainment program to combat the devastating effects of malaria and other debilitating calamities. Research link Country: Mali Discipline: Arts & Humanities Department: Theatre Arts and Performance Studies Bahar, Ruth Professor R. Iris Bahar's research interests are in the fields of computer architechture, electronic design automation, and digital circuit design. She is currently working to improve reliability and reduce dissipation in high-performance processors. Research link Country: Italy Discipline: Physical Sciences Departments: Computer Science, Engineering Bartov, Omer Professor Omer Bartov is considered one of the world's leading authorities on the subject of genocide. His research aims to trace the origins of local mass murder and the complexities of relations between different ethnic and religious groups over a long time span in the Eastern Galician town of Buczacz. His early research concerned the Nazi indoctrination of the Wehrmacht and the war crimes committed in World War II. Research link Countries: Ukraine, Germany Discipline: Social Sciences Departments: German Studies, History Bass, Laura Associate Professor Laura Bass' research focuses on the cultural production of early modern Spain and the broader Hispanic world. She is currently researching and writing a cultural history of Madrid in the period of its consolidation as the court capital of imperial Spain. Research link Country: Spain Discipline: Arts & Humanities Department: Hispanic Studies Bath, Kevin Assistant Professor Research Kevin Bath’s research is heavily focused on understanding emotional development and how environmental or pharmacological stressors incurred early in life alter the developmental trajectory of brain centers involved in cognitive and emotional regulation. Research link Country: France Discipline: Biology & Medicine Department: Neuroscience Bauer, Beth Senior Lecturer Beth Bauer’s current research examines issues of gender and empire in the travel books of Fanny Calderón de la Barca. Research link Country: Spain Discipline: Arts & Humanities Department: Hispanic Studies Baylin, Ana Adjunct Assistant Professor Ana Baylin is primarily interested in the emerging burden of chronic disease in developing countries, in particular cardiovascular disease, obesity, and diabetes, which have started to exceed those in developed countries. Her current research studies fatty acids and gene-diet interactions. Research link Countries: Costa Rica, American Samoa, Colombia Discipline: Biology & Medicine Department: Epidemiology Becker, Bruce Professor Bruce Becker is the principal investigator on a Robert Wood Johnson Foundation grant "Smoking Cessation in Mothers and Older Family Members of Babies Being Treated in a Special Care Nursery." He has worked in many countries doing refugee medicine, disaster medicine and emergency medicine. Research link Countries: Armenia, Russia, Kyrgyzstan, Nicaragua, Cambodia, Kenya Discipline: Biology & Medicine Departments: Behavioral and Social Sciences, Emergency Medicine Bensmaïa, Réda Professor Emeritus Réda Bensmaïa’s current research focuses on the evolution of democratic institutions in Algeria, Morocco and Tunisia as reflected in the works of Francophone writers and intellectuals during the last fifteen years. Research link Countries: Algeria, Morocco, Tunisia, France Discipline: Arts & Humanities Departments: Comparative Literature, French Studies Beresford, J Roderic Professor J. Roderic Beresford's research focuses on semiconductor nanostructures, including synthesis, modeling, integration with microelectronics, and applications. Research link Country: Canada Discipline: Physical Sciences Department: Engineering Berman, Nathaniel Research Professor Nathaniel Berman is interested in international law, religion, and colonial and nationalist discourses. His research centers on nationalism, ethnic conflict, and colonialism. Research link Country: Israel Discipline: Arts & Humanities Departments: International Studies, Cogut Humanities Center Bernstein, Susan Professor Susan Bernstein works in German, French and English and American literature of the 18th-20th centuries. She has particular interests in literary theory, literature and the arts, Romanticism, philosophy and poetry. Research link Countries: Germany, France, United Kingdom, United States Discipline: Arts & Humanities Departments: Comparative Literature, German Studies Bertness, Mark Professor Mark Bertness’s research is focused on the dynamics of natural communities, marine shoreline systems and conservation biology. His current research is reevaluating the role of top-down forces in regulating the production of salt marsh systems. Research link Country: Chile Discipline: Biology & Medicine Department: Ecology and Evolutionary Biology Besky, Sarah Assistant Professor Sarah Besky is currently working on two new projects. The first is a new book, tentatively titled "Transparent Futures? Technology, Trade, and Postcolonial Industrial Reform", which examines the tensions between technologies of neoliberal reform and middle-class masculinity among Indian tea brokers in Kolkata. Dr. Besky sets the stories of tea brokers, who are nearly all male, against the backdrop of a dramatic shift in the Indian tea industry. Another project engages the intersection of environmental justice and territorial sovereignty in Darjeeling, focused on the Gorkhaland movement. Research link Country: India Discipline: Social Sciences Department: Anthropology Bestock, Laurel Assistant Professor Laurel Bestock's research focuses on the material culture of the Nile Valley. She is interested in kingship and monumentality, but also in the development of sacred space over time and on cultural interactions. Research link Countries: Sudan, Egypt, Austria Discipline: Arts & Humanities Departments: Archaeology and the Ancient World, Egyptology and Ancient Western Asian Studies Bewes, Timothy Professor Timothy Bewes has research interests in contemporary British/American fiction, aesthetic theory, poststructuralist and Marxist literary theory, postmodernism and postcolonialism, and the politics and ethics of literary form. Research link Countries: United Kingdom, South Africa Discipline: Arts & Humanities Departments: English, Modern Culture and Media Bisaccio, Daniel Lecturer Daniel Bisaccio’s current research project concerns biodiversity in central and South America and the South Pacific sites, and provides high school and college students with authentic field research opportunities. Research link Country: Mexico Discipline: Social Sciences Department: Education Bizri, Hisham Professor Hisham Bizri is a film director, writer, and producer, born in Beirut, Lebanon. He started working in films in the US and Hungary with directors Stan Brakhage, Raúl Ruiz and Miklós Jancsó and has directed 25 short films in the US, France, Korea, Japan, Lebanon, and Ireland. His work has been shown in many international venues including Sundance, Cannes, Berlin, Moscow, Oberhausen, Centre Pompidou, the Louvre, and MoMa, NY. Bizri is co-founder of the Arab Institute of Film in Jordan and the recipient of numerous awards such as the McKnight, Jerome, Rockefeller, Guggenheim, and the "Rome Prize". Research link Countries: Hungary, United States, France, Korea, Japan, Lebanon, Ireland, Jordan Discipline: Arts & Humanities Department: Literary Arts Björkegren, Daniel Assistant Professor Daniel Björkegren's research uses big data to understand the economics of the developing world. His current project uses data from billions of mobile phone transactions to shed light on network effects and economic development in Africa. Research link Country: Rwanda Discipline: Social Sciences Department: Economics Blackadar, Andrew Director of Curriculum Development, Choices Program Andrew Blackadar is the director of curriculum development for the Choices Program, a national education initiative at Brown that produces content on international topics for high school social studies classrooms. He led the development of Brazil: From Colony to Democracy, a curriculum resource that focuses on Brazil's transition to democracy. Research link Country: Brazil Discipline: Social Sciences Department: Blair, Robert Assistant Professor Robert Blair's research focuses on peacebuilding, statebuilding and the causes and consequences of ethnic and political violence. He has conducted fieldwork on these topics in Colombia, Liberia and Cote d’Ivoire, with support from the National Science Foundation, the US Agency for International Development, the Folke Bernadotte Academy and the International Growth Centre, among other donors. Research link Countries: Colombia, Liberia, Ivory Coast Discipline: Social Sciences Department: Political Science Blasing, Mutlu Professor Mutlu Blasing researches American poetry, poetic theory, and translation. She has also published ten books of translations from Turkish to English. Research link Country: Turkey Discipline: Arts & Humanities Department: English Blaum, Joaquin Assistant Professor Joaquin Blaum's research is focused on the intersection of macroeconomics and development economics. He is particularly interested in the effects of inequality on the supply side of the economy. Research link Country: Argentina Discipline: Social Sciences Department: Economics Blyth, Mark Professor Mark Blyth’s research interests lie in the of field of international political economy. More specifically, his research traverses several fields and aims to be as interdisciplinary as possible, drawing from political science, economics, sociology, complexity theory and evolutionary theory. Research link Country: United Kingdom Discipline: Social Sciences Department: Political Science Bodel, John Professor John Bodel studies ancient Roman social, economic, and cultural history and Latin literature, especially of the empire. Much of his research involves inscriptions, and he has special interests in Roman religion, slavery, funerals and burial customs, ancient writing systems, the editing of Latin epigraphic and literary texts, and Latin prose authors. Research link Countries: France, Germany, United Kingdom Discipline: Arts & Humanities Department: Classics Bogues, Barrymore Professor Barrymore Bogues's research and writing interests include intellectual, literary and cultural history, radical political thought, political theory, critical theory, as well as Caribbean and African politics. He is currently working on Human Freedom, a series of projects on Haitian art, and is an edited Reader on Black Political Thought. Research link Countries: Haiti, Jamaica, South Africa, Ethiopia, Netherlands Discipline: Social Sciences Department: Africana Studies Bonde, Sheila Professor Sheila Bonde's research brings together the approaches of archaeology, history, architectural history and spatial analysis. She is co-director of the MonArch (Monastic Archaeology) research team that focuses on three monasteries in northern France. Research link Country: France Discipline: Arts & Humanities Department: History of Art and Architecture Borkan, Jeffrey Professor Jeffrey Borkan has research interests in qualitative research and mixed qualitative-quantitative studies; doctor-patient communication and narratives; low-back pain in primary care; public participation in health policy decisions, such as rationing; and medical education. Research link Countries: Honduras, Israel, Tonga Discipline: Biology & Medicine Department: Family Medicine Borton, David Assistant Professor David Borton's research engages engineers, neuroscientists, mathematicians, and clinicians to create and apply state-of-the-art neural interfaces, kinematic sensors, and biochemical sensors to study neuromotor disease and insult in relevant animal models and humans. Research link Country: Switzerland Discipline: Physical Sciences Department: Engineering Bossy, Michel-Andre Professor Emeritus Michel-Andre Bossy studies medieval cultural connections between France and its neighbors, especially during the period of the troubadours and the Hundred Years' War. His fields include medieval French, Anglo-Norman, and Occitan literature, 12th- to 15th-century lyric poetry, and social interpretations of literature. Research link Country: France Discipline: Arts & Humanities Departments: Comparative Literature, French Studies Bouslough, David Clinical Assistant Professor David Bouslough works in International Emergency Preparedness, Palliative Care, Disaster Medicine and Response. Research link Country: American Samoa Discipline: Biology & Medicine Department: Emergency Medicine Bowen, Wayne Professor Wayne Bowen's research aims to understand the underlying mechanisms of programmed cell death (Apoptosis) caused by activation of sigma-2 receptors. Because these receptors are highly expressed in cancer cells, they can be targeted for development of new antineoplastic agents (anti-cancer drugs). Research link Country: France Discipline: Biology & Medicine Department: Biology Branch, Jordan Assistant Professor Jordan Branch’s interests include international relations theory, the history of the sovereign state system, contemporary challenges to statehood, and the intersection of technological and political change. Research link Countries: France, Austria, China, India Discipline: Social Sciences Department: Political Science Braun, Lundy Professor Lundy Braun focuses on the history of race in public health, medicine, and technology. Current particular interests center on how biological understandings of race obscure the structural causes of health inequality. Research link Country: South Africa Discipline: Biology & Medicine Departments: Africana Studies, Pathology and Laboratory Medicine Breuer, Kenneth Professor Kenneth Breuer’s research focuses on fluid mechanics and animal flight. He was a visiting scholar at the University of Queensland. Research link Country: Australia Discipline: Physical Sciences Departments: Ecology and Evolutionary Biology, Engineering Broackes, Justin Professor Justin Broackes is interested in the philosophy of mind and language, Descartes, Locke and Hume. His present research is on issues in metaphysics and the theory of perception, and their connections with the history of the subject. Special areas of interest include: Theory of Color and Color-Perception, from the Ancient Greeks to the present; Color-Blindness; and the Notion of Substance, and what became of that idea in the 17th and 18th centuries and after. In addition, Broackes is working on a book on Iris Murdoch's The Sovereignty of Good and is editing a collection of essays on her work. Research link Countries: France, United Kingdom Discipline: Arts & Humanities Department: Philosophy Brokaw, Cynthia Professor Cynthia Brokaw researches the history of the book in late imperial China. Her current project examines the development of publishing and the creation of book cultures, both Chinese and Tibetan, on the southwestern frontier of the Qing Empire. Research link Country: China Discipline: Social Sciences Department: History Brown, Keith Professor Research Keith Brown works primarily in the domain of culture, politics and identity. As well as extensive research on ethno-nationalism and the role of national history in the Balkans, his more recent work explores how different transnational processes contribute to people's sense of long-distance connection, and new forms of citizenship and belonging. He has served since July 2010 as Director of the Brown International Advanced Research Institutes (BIARI). Research link Country: Macedonia Discipline: Social Sciences Department: International Studies Bryan, Elizabeth Associate Professor Elizabeth Bryan researches medieval Brut Chronicle narratives and their evolving interpretations, medieval and early modern palaeography and codicology, theories of authorship and textual production in manuscript cultures, and Early Middle English vernacularity. Research link Country: United Kingdom Discipline: Arts & Humanities Department: English Buchta, David Lecturer David Buchta is a Sanskrit scholar and expert in classical Indian literary theory, Indian philosophy, and ancient and medieval Hinduism. Research link Country: India Discipline: Arts & Humanities Department: Classics Burgwyn Fuchs, Beth Assistant Professor (Research) Beth Burgwyn Fuchs studies microbial pathogenesis in collaboration with Brazilian colleagues. Her research focuses on identifying antifungal and immunomodulatory compounds using high throughput automated screening. Most recently, her research endeavors have been focused on developing new technologies to aid in infectious diseases diagnostics. Research link Country: Brazil Discipline: Biology & Medicine Department: Medicine Calo, Joseph Professor Research Joseph Calo’s work applies themes of chemical kinetics and transport phenomena to problems in engineering and science. Research link Countries: Spain, United Kingdom Discipline: Physical Sciences Department: Engineering Cane, David Professor Emeritus David Cane's research seeks to establish the mechanism of formation of a wide variety of naturally occurring substances of diverse biological origins including antibiotics, toxins, essential oils, and vitamins. Research link Countries: China, Japan, France Discipline: Physical Sciences Department: Chemistry Carey, Kate Professor Kate Carey studies the causes and consequences of risky drinking, and the factors contributing to alcohol-related risk reduction. Research interests include screening and brief interventions for at-risk drinking, motivation to change, young adult drinking, alcohol use and risky sexual behavior. Research link Country: South Africa Discipline: Social Sciences Department: Behavioral and Social Sciences Carpenter, Charles Professor Charles Carpenter is the Director of the Brown Center for AIDS research. His research over the past decade has been directed toward two main areas, the optimal treatment of HIV infection in North American women and therapeutic strategies that are effective in the developing world. Research link Countries: India, United States Discipline: Biology & Medicine Department: Medicine Carter, Jane Associate Professor Jane Carter’s interest centers on Tuberculosis Program Development and Care Delivery. Her work focuses both locally at the RI TB Clinic and internationally (primarily in Kenya) to develop community based care programs, promote DOTS expansion, new TB diagnostics for the developing world and coordinated care progams for TB/HIV. Research link Country: Kenya Discipline: Biology & Medicine Department: Medicine Carter, Rebecca Assistant Professor Rebecca Carter is a cultural anthropologist whose research explores human dwelling, vulnerability, and social-environmental change, particularly in the urban periphery. Her current research focuses on the Atlantic world and the intersection of race, inequality, environmental vulnerability, and urban sustainability. Research link Countries: Senegal, France Discipline: Social Sciences Departments: Anthropology, Urban Studies Castiglione, Caroline Professor Caroline Castiglione examines how seemingly marginalized individuals challenged systems of power in Italy during the period 1500-1800. Her research also investigates the intersection of mothering and politics in 17th-century Rome. Research link Country: Italy Discipline: Arts & Humanities Departments: History, Italian Studies Chen, Wenhui Lecturer Wenhui Chen teaches Modern Chinese at Brown. Research link Country: China Discipline: Arts & Humanities Department: East Asian Studies Cherry, John Professor John Cherry is a specialist in Aegean Prehistory, with wider interests in Mediterranean and European prehistory and archaeology. His fieldwork involves regional survey and landscape studies. He currently co-directs a diachronic field survey project on Montserrat in the Caribbean Lesser Antilles. Research link Countries: United Kingdom, Albania, Italy, Armenia, Greece, Montserrat Discipline: Arts & Humanities Departments: Archaeology and the Ancient World, Classics Chin, Tamara Associate Professor Tamara Chin's research focuses on antiquity and the modern reception of antiquity, primarily exploring what happens when one takes cross-cultural and connected histories, rather than national history, as the framework for literary inquiry. Research link Countries: China, India Discipline: Arts & Humanities Department: Comparative Literature Chorev, Nitsan Professor Nitsan Chorev's research focuses on the politics of neoliberalism and globalization. Her new book looks at the policies promoted by the World Health Organization (WHO) during the call for a New International Economic Order in the 1970s and the under neoliberalism in the 1990s to investigate how international organizations respond to exogenous pressures. Research link Countries: Germany, United Kingdom, France, Kenya, Uganda, Tanzania Discipline: Social Sciences Department: Sociology Christoff, Mirena Senior Lecturer Mirena Christoff’s research topics include modern Arabic translation and cultural history; the study of aspects of the linguistic transmission between non-cognate languages; the integration of translation in foreign language instruction. Research link Country: Egypt Discipline: Arts & Humanities Department: Language Studies Chun, Wendy Professor Wendy Chun has studied both Systems Design Engineering and English Literature, which she combines and mutates in her current work on digital media. Her research is in new media, comparative media studies, critical race studies and critical theory. Research link Country: Germany Discipline: Arts & Humanities Departments: History of Art and Architecture, Modern Culture and Media Cioffi Jr, William Professor William Cioffi Jr. is a national leader in trauma, critical care, and burns. Throughout his career his major research interests have focused on the host response to injury and include basic science, translational, and clinical research. He has also participated in the esophageal cancer program at Tenwek Hospital in Kenya. Research link Country: Kenya Discipline: Biology & Medicine Department: Surgery Cladis, Mark Professor Mark Cladis’s research focuses on the philosophy of religion, religious ethics, and the theory of religion. His work concerns the intersection of Western political, religious, and environmental thought, especially the religious nature and origins of liberal, democratic society. He has written extensively on the work of Emile Durkheim. Research link Country: France Discipline: Arts & Humanities Department: Religious Studies Clayton, Michelle Associate Professor Michelle Clayton’s research spans modern and contemporary Latin American and European writing and film, avant-garde aesthetics and poetry, dance, art history, and media studies. Research link Countries: Peru, Argentina, United Kingdom, France, Germany, Ireland, Italy, Mexico, Spain Discipline: Arts & Humanities Departments: Comparative Literature, Hispanic Studies Clemens, Steven Associate Professor Research Steven Clemens uses the marine and terrestrial geologic record to understand the history and dynamics of global climate and environmental change, with an emphasis on the Indian and Asian monsoon systems. Research link Countries: India, China, Vietnam, Malaysia, Brunei, Philippines, Papua New Guinea Discipline: Physical Sciences Department: Geological Sciences Cole Swensen, Leigh Professor Leigh Cole Swensen is the author of fourteen volumes of poetry and a collection of critical essays. She is the founding editor of the translation press "La Presse." She is a translator of contemporary French poetry, prose, and art criticism, and won the 2004 PEN USA Award in Literary translation. Research link Country: France Discipline: Arts & Humanities Department: Literary Arts Colgan, Jeffrey Assistant Professor Jeffrey Colgan's research focuses on the geopolitics of energy, specifically oil resources. Other research interests include international security, causes of war, internatinal political economy, and global energy governance. Research link Countries: Venezuela, Russia, Iran, Saudi Arabia, Iraq Discipline: Social Sciences Departments: International Studies, Political Science Conant, Jonathan Assistant Professor Jonathan Conant studies late ancient and early medieval history. His research focuses on the inter-regional integration of the Mediterranean, and he has a special interest in questions of identity, empire, interfaith interaction, sanctity, slavery, and documentary culture. Research link Countries: Tunisia, Algeria Discipline: Social Sciences Department: History Connors, Barry Professor Barry Connor’s research studies the properties of the neurons of the neocortex of the brain, their synaptic connections, and the characteristics of cortical networks. The neocortex is responsible for thinking, remembering, processing sensory information, and controlling movement. Research link Country: Israel Discipline: Biology & Medicine Department: Neuroscience Cook, Harold Professor Harold Cook has researched the rise of modern science in early modern Europe. He helped to pioneer the use of the medical marketplace as a historical tool of investigation, and more recently, through examinations of the Dutch experience, has been especially interested in the connections between the rise of global commerce and the development of a global science. Research link Countries: Netherlands, United Kingdom Discipline: Social Sciences Department: History Cook, Linda Professor Linda Cook's main research interests are in the comparative politics of the Russian Federation, Eastern Europe and Eurasia, and electoral-authoritarian regimes cross-regionally. More specifically, she has focused on politics of welfare states, political representation of labor and women, and NGOs. Research link Countries: Russia, China Discipline: Social Sciences Department: Political Science Cope, Robert Associate Professor Robert Cope's research and teaching focuses on the creation and development of multi-ethnic societies in Mexico and Central America. Cope is particularly interested in the lived experience of the urban poor: how they grappled – socially, economically, and culturally – with their unfavorable position in the colonial hierarchy. Research link Countries: Mexico, Guatemala Discipline: Social Sciences Department: History Crossgrove, William Professor Emeritus William Crossgrove works on "knowledge" literature in late medieval Germany and on the process of "vernacularization" whereby Latin scientific texts and unwritten artisanal skills are transmuted into vernacular texts for a newly-literate reading public of non-experts. Research link Country: Germany Discipline: Departments: Comparative Literature, German Studies Cu-Uvin, Susan Professor Director of the Brown Global Health Initiative and Associate Director, Lifespan/Tufts/Brown Center for AIDS Research, Susan Cu-Uvin's research focuses on Human Immunideficiency Virus (HIV) in women primarily in understanding the effect of antiretroviral therapy on HIV shedding in the female genital tract. She is also involved in research on Sexually Transmitted Diseases (STDs): human papilloma virus (HPV, genital warts) in the cervix and anal canal of HIV infected women, cervical/anal dysplasia or cancer, HPV vaccines, herpes and bacterial vaginosis. Research link Countries: Cambodia, Kenya, Philippines, India, Indonesia, Brazil Discipline: Biology & Medicine Departments: Health Services Policy and Practice, Obstetrics and Gynecology Cummings, Stephen Clinical Assistant Professor Stephen Cummings is involved in the mission of the Vietnam Family Medicine Development Project, whose goal is to introduce and establish family medicine as the core specialty for primary care throughout Vietnam. Research link Country: Vietnam Discipline: Biology & Medicine Department: Family Medicine Curci, Ruggero Adjunct Professor Ruggero Curci's research investigates the properties and the reactivity of new peroxide species which allow selective oxidations. His research has been supported by the Italian Research Council, the Italian Chemical Society, and the Italian Ministry of Education among others. Research link Country: Italy Discipline: Department: Chemistry de Graffenried, Christopher Assistant Professor (Research) Chris de Graffenried's current research focuses on Trypanosoma brucei, the causative agent of African sleeping sickness in humans. Past research focused on kinetoplastid parasites, including Leishmania, a devastating pathogen endemic to Brazil. Research link Country: Brazil Discipline: Physical Sciences Department: Molecular Microbiology and Immunology De La Monte, Suzanne Professor Suzanne De La Monte directs basic and translational research in the laboratory. She performs clinical service work in Neuropathology, including teaching residents and students. Her research efforts are mainly focused on understanding the role of insulin and insulin-like growth factor resistance in relation to neurodegeneration caused by Alzheimer's disease and chronic alcohol abuse. Research link Country: Brazil Discipline: Biology & Medicine Department: Pathology and Laboratory Medicine DeBenedette, Lynne Senior Lecturer Lynne DeBenedette teaches Russian language and coordinates the Russian language curriculum. In alternate summers she serves as the coordinator of Brown in St. Petersburg, and is the advisor for study abroad in Russia. Her research interests include curriculum design, instructional technology, processing instruction and foreign language teacher education. Research link Countries: Russia, Czech Republic Discipline: Arts & Humanities Department: Slavic Languages Debrohun, Jeri Associate Professor Jeri DeBrohun's primary research interests are in Republican and Augustan Latin poetry and culture, with particular emphasis on allusion and genre. Research link Countries: Italy, Greece Discipline: Arts & Humanities Department: Classics Deegan, Linda Professor of Ecology and Evolutionary Biology (Brown-Marine Biology Laboratory) Linda Deegan works on stream ecosystems in the Amazon River system. She is currently working in Mato Grosso on the effects of land-use change on biogeochemical cycling and biodiversity. Research link Country: Brazil Discipline: Life Sciences Department: Ecology and Evolutionary Biology Dell'Antonio, Ian Associate Professor Ian Dell’Antonio conducts research on observational cosmology, the experimental measurement of the fundamental properties of the Universe. Research link Country: Italy Discipline: Physical Sciences Department: Physics DePue, Judith Clinical Professor Emerita Judith DePue's research interests focus on public health approaches to deliver preventive care and behavioral/lifestyle interventions. She has particular interest in developing interventions for primary care and community settings and with under-served populations. She has recently completed a randomized clinical trial on cultural translation of a diabetes self-management intervention. Research link Country: American Samoa Discipline: Biology & Medicine Department: Psychiatry and Human Behavior Depuydt, Leo Professor Leo Depuydt’s research interests focus on the history and languages of ancient Egypt and the surrounding area. His most recent research efforts involved ancient science and math in Egypt, with a focus on probability theory. Research link Country: Egypt Discipline: Arts & Humanities Department: Egyptology and Ancient Western Asian Studies Derdak, Zoltan Assistant Professor of Medicine (Research) Zoltan Derdak's research focuses on the regulators of mitochondrial oxidative stress, apoptosis and cellular glucose metabolism in the context of alcoholic (ALD)/non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) and cancer cell biology. He has a special interest in the tumor suppressor p53 that is thought to be one of the key regulators of the aforementioned biological processes, although its role in ALD and NAFLD is not well established. Derdak's current research aims to elucidate the molecular pathways that are affected by p53 in ALD and NAFLD with special emphasis on its novel metabolic functions and its potential role in hepatic and systemic insulin resistance. Research link Country: Discipline: Biology & Medicine Department: Medicine Di Carlo, Lisa Lecturer Lisa DiCarlo research interests center around migration and change, with earlier work focused on labor migration from Turkey to the US. Her curent work focuses on the migration of ideas: where innovative ideas come from, how they are operationalized, how they translate across cultural and material contexts, and the nature of their social impact. Research link Country: Turkey Discipline: Social Sciences Department: Sociology Diaz, Joseph Associate Professor Joseph Diaz researches cancer control and prevention, colon cancer screening disparities, as well as disparities in the delivery of health care and cultural and language barriers to health care access. Research link Country: Dominican Rep. Discipline: Biology & Medicine Department: Medicine Domini, Fulvio Professor Fulvio Domini is interested in how human survival capabilities depend on a fundamental skill of the visual system: interpreting retinal images in order to extract knowledge about the 3D structure of the surrounding environment. Domini investigates what kind of mathematical analysis of different properties of retinal images can be considered biologically plausible. Research link Countries: Italy, Germany Discipline: Life Sciences Department: Dong, Hongjie Associate Professor Hongjie Dong's research interest is in partial differential equations, including nonlinear elliptic and parabolic equations, the Navier-Stokes equations, the quasi-geostrophic equations, the reaction diffusion equations, the probability approaches of PDEs, and rates of convergence of finite difference approximations for elliptic and parabolic Bellman's equations. Research link Country: Korea Discipline: Physical Sciences Department: Applied Mathematics Doumani, Beshara Professor Beshara Doumani's research focuses on the history of social groups, places, and time periods that have been silenced or erased by conventional scholarship on the early modern and modern Middle East. He helped pioneer the fields of Middle East family history and the social history of the Palestinians. Research link Countries: Palestinian Territories, Syria Discipline: Social Sciences Departments: History, Middle East Studies Dunn, Casey Assistant Professor Casey Dunn investigates how evolution has produced a diversity of life. His lab's primarily focus is on form (i.e. morphology), and he conducts research on both the actual history of life on Earth and general properties of evolution that have contributed to historical patterns. The type of questions the Dunn Lab asks require field (mostly marine), laboratory, and computational work. Research link Countries: France, United States Discipline: Biology & Medicine Department: Ecology and Evolutionary Biology Dworkin, Lance Professor Lance Dworkin researches kidney disease, hemodynamics, and hypertension. Research link Country: China Discipline: Biology & Medicine Department: Medicine Dzidzienyo, Anani Associate Professor Anani Dzidzienyo’s research focuses on Afro-Brazilians and Afro-Latin Americans in Latin America, and on contemporary relations of Africa and Latin America. His works include extensive studies and writing on the Black Experience in Brazilian Society. Research link Countries: Brazil, Ghana Discipline: Social Sciences Departments: Africana Studies, Portuguese and Brazilian Studies Edwards, Erika Associate Professor Erika Edwards is a botanist interested in plant evolution. Research link Countries: Venezuela, Dominican Rep. Discipline: Biology & Medicine Department: Ecology and Evolutionary Biology Edwards, Wendy Chair and Professor Wendy Edwards' paintings focus on the interaction of color relationships on multi-layered surfaces. Her primary interest is in visual information dealing with patterning and repetition, and often finds inspiration for her work in nature, textiles, and embellished ornamentation. She is known for her color and textural surface paintings in which she has used both patterned abstraction and naturalistic imagery. Research link Country: France Discipline: Arts & Humanities Department: Visual Art Egan, James Professor James Egan’s work includes the following: 17th- and 18th-century British-American writing; the history of the book; the early modern Atlantic world; colonial British-American Orientalism; and early theories of modernity. Research link Country: United Kingdom Discipline: Arts & Humanities Department: English Ehn, Erik Professor Erik Ehn conducts annual trips to Rwanda/Uganda, bringing teams to study the history there, and explore the ways art is participating in recovery from violence. Research link Countries: Rwanda, Uganda Discipline: Arts & Humanities Department: Theatre Arts and Performance Studies Elizabeth, Jennifer Assistant Professor Jennifer Elizabeth Johnson's research concentrates on humanitarianism and health care in Algeria. Research link Country: Algeria Discipline: Social Sciences Department: History Elliott, Claudia Senior Lecturer Claudia Elliott’s work and research focus on Latin American and comparative politics, with a particular interest in political change and continuity. Research link Countries: Mexico, Venezuela, Spain, Cuba Discipline: Social Sciences Department: International Studies Empkie, Timothy Clinical Associate Professor Timothy Empkie is responsible for a series of initiatives and programs of an internationally collaborative nature. Research link Countries: Dominican Rep., Greece, Germany Discipline: Biology & Medicine Department: Family Medicine Estlund, David Professor David Estlund's areas of expertise include ethics and social/political philosophy, particularly the areas of liberalism, justice, and democracy. Research link Country: Australia Discipline: Arts & Humanities Department: Philosophy Evdokimova, Svetlana Professor Svetlana Evdokimova's main areas of scholarly interest include Pushkin, Russian and European Romanticism, Tolstoy, Chekhov, relations between fiction and history, aesthetics, and gender and sexuality in Russian and European literatures. Research link Country: Russia Discipline: Arts & Humanities Departments: Comparative Literature, Slavic Languages Fagan, Mark Professor Mark Fagan's academic interests are in internal medicine education. He also has an interest in global health, and co-directs an exchange program with Cabral y Baez Hospital in the Dominican Republic. Research link Country: Dominican Rep. Discipline: Biology & Medicine Department: Medicine Faiza, Miled Lecturer Miled Faiza is primarily interested in Modern Arabic Literature, Translation and Lexicography. Research link Country: Tunisia Discipline: Arts & Humanities Department: Language Studies Faudree, Paja Associate Professor Paja Faudree's research interests include language and politics, indigenous literary and social movements, the interface between music and language, the ethnohistory of New World colonization, and the global marketing of indigenous rights discourses, indigenous knowledge, and plants. Research link Country: Mexico Discipline: Social Sciences Department: Anthropology Feng, Zhanlian Adjunct Assistant Professor Zhanlian Feng’s research centers on the emergence of institutional health care in China and the United States. His team aggregates data from samples of elder care homes in Tianjin and Nanjing to understand the needs of the fast aging population in China. Research link Country: China Discipline: Department: Health Services Policy and Practice Ferreira, Roquinaldo Associate Professor Roquinaldo Ferreira specializes in African, Colonial Brazilian, and Atlantic Histories. He is also interested in comparative slavery and forced labor, race relations in colonial societies, production of racial ideologies, and abolitionism. Research link Countries: Brazil, Angola, Portugal, Mozambique, Spain, Mozambique Discipline: Social Sciences Departments: History, Portuguese and Brazilian Studies Fidler, Masako Professor Masako Fidler studies discourse analysis and cognitive linguistics with an emphasis on Czech, Japanese, and Russian. She is particularly interested in the connection between sound and meaning in language and how this relationship interacts with grammar. Her monograph on Czech onomaopoeia came out in 2014. Research link Countries: Czech Republic, Russia, Japan Discipline: Arts & Humanities Department: Slavic Languages Fishman, Richard Professor Richard Fishman is interested in the connections between the arts, science, and technology. He is an award-winning sculptor whose work has been exhibited throughout the United States, as well as in London and Montreal. Research link Countries: United Kingdom, Canada Discipline: Arts & Humanities Department: Visual Art Fitzgerald, James Professor James Fitzgerald is a scholar of Sanskrit and ancient Indian literature and intellectual history. His research and writing centers around the translation of the 2000 year-old Indian epic, the Mahabharata. Research link Country: India Discipline: Arts & Humanities Departments: Classics, Religious Studies Flanigan, Timothy Professor Timothy Flanigan is currently involved in clinical research programs for HIV care, treatment, and testing in underserved communities. Research link Countries: Ghana, Cape Verde, Ukraine, India, Vietnam, Liberia Discipline: Biology & Medicine Departments: Medicine, Health Services Policy and Practice Foley, Stephen Associate Professor Stephen Foley works on European Renaissance culture and letters, classical traditions, lyric poetry, religion and literature, literary theory, and aesthetics. Research link Country: United Kingdom Discipline: Arts & Humanities Departments: Comparative Literature, English Fonseca, Rodrigo Assistant Professor Rodrigo Fonseca works in the areas of networking and distributed, large-scale computer systems. He is a native of Brazil and maintains close ties to UFMG, where he obtained his BSc and MSc in Computer Science before coming to the US. Research link Country: Brazil Discipline: Physical Sciences Department: Computer Science Foster, Andrew Professor Andrew Foster studies household and family economics, health economics, and economic development. His recent research focuses on economic growth in rural India and air quality in Delhi. Research link Country: India Discipline: Social Sciences Department: Economics Franck, Christian Assistant Professor Christian Franck's research centers on experimental cell mechanics, particularly motility and adhesion, physical injury mechanisms in Traumatic Brain Injury (TBI) and Alzheimer’s disease, Physics and characterization of soft biomaterials, and development of new experimental techniques at the nano/micro scale. Research link Countries: France, Germany Discipline: Physical Sciences Department: Engineering Franklin, Rachel Assistant Professor Research Rachel Franklin is a population geographer and regional scientist whose research focuses on migration and population change. Her recent work has focused on the geography of population decline in the U.S. and Germany, as well as the migration patterns of U.S. college students. Research link Countries: Germany, United States Discipline: Social Sciences Department: Population Studies Freed-Thall, Hannah Assistant Professor Hannah Freed-Thall's recent research develops a new theory of the modernist ordinary, examining the unsophisticated side of aesthetic experience in works by Proust, Ponge, Sarraute, Barthes, Bourdieu, and Merleau-Ponty. Her current works include a study of modernist speculation, and articles on queer ecology and on the rhetoric of revulsion in modern French literature and film. Research link Countries: United Kingdom, France Discipline: Arts & Humanities Department: Comparative Literature Friedberg, Rachel Senior Lecturer Rachel Friedberg's main area of expertise is labor markets and immigration. Her research is focused on labor market performance and immigration considering factors like education, work experience, age at arrival, and language in the US and Israel. Research link Countries: Israel, United States Discipline: Social Sciences Department: Economics Friedman, Jennifer Professor Jennifer Friedman's research addresses how parasitic diseases, particularly malaria and schistosomiasis, cause morbidity for pregnant women and children. She has worked in The Philippines, Kenya, and Brazil, addressing the relationship between these infections and adverse maternal and birth outcomes, as well as pediatric malnutrition, anemia, and cognitive impairment. Research link Countries: Philippines, United Kingdom, Netherlands, Brazil Discipline: Biology & Medicine Departments: Epidemiology, Pediatrics Fruzzetti, Lina Professor Lina Fruzzetti's research focuses on social anthropology, kinship, the study of ritual and the construction of gender, development and political studies, race and ethnic relations, Islamic societies and notions of identity, and ethnographic film. She also studies feminist movement in Africa and Asia, nationalism and post-colonial identity. Research link Countries: India, Eritrea Discipline: Social Sciences Department: Anthropology Gaitskell, Richard Professor Richard Gaitskell leads a research team hunting for direct evidence of particle dark matter, one of physics' greatest unclaimed prizes. Research link Country: United Kingdom Discipline: Physical Sciences Department: Physics Galarraga, Omar Assistant Professor Omar Galarraga’s research focuses on applied health economics and health and services research. This includes understanding economic incentives to prevent HIV, and the economic efficacy of HIV programs. Research link Countries: Mexico, Kenya, Ghana Discipline: Biology & Medicine Department: Galor, Oded Professor Oded Galor is the founder of the field of Unified Growth Theory. His research focuses his research in the fields of income distribution, human evolution, population economics, and economic growth models. Research link Countries: Italy, Germany, United Kingdom Discipline: Social Sciences Department: Economics Gander, Forrest Professor Forrest Gander is concerned with the way identity is translated by encounters with the foreign. The editor of several anthologies of poetry from Spain and Latin America, Gander is also a well-known translator. Research link Countries: Spain, Japan, Mexico Discipline: Arts & Humanities Departments: Comparative Literature, Literary Arts Gandhi, Leela Professor Leela Gandhi’s scholarly work is driven by an impulse toward disciplinary intersection and an interest in the overlapping and intertwining legacies borne of colonial encounters, especially transnational traditions of anti-imperial ethics. Her current work examines the notion of ‘likeness’ as a lost conceit in ethical thought. Research link Countries: United Kingdom, India Discipline: Arts & Humanities Department: English Ganley-Leal, Lisa Assistant Professor (Research) Lisa Ganley-Leal is an assistant professor of pediatrics. She is a member of the Watson Institute's Brazil Initiative. Research link Country: Brazil Discipline: Biology & Medicine Department: Pediatrics Gao, Huajian Professor Huajian Gao’s research focuses on applied mechanics and engineering science. His work has been funded by a number of foreign governments, and he has worked as visiting professor abroad. Research link Countries: Korea, Singapore, China Discipline: Physical Sciences Department: Engineering Gatesy, Stephen Professor Stephen Gatesy’s research is directed at understanding the evolution of the vertebrate locomotor system with a focus on birds, dinosaurs and other extinct species. Gatesy uses computer models and 3-D motion analysis in his studies. Research link Country: United Kingdom Discipline: Biology & Medicine Department: Ecology and Evolutionary Biology Genberg, Becky Assistant Professor Research Becky Genberg’s current research focuses on HIV care and home-based counseling and testing in Kenya. Dr. Genberg is also interested in the social determinants of drug use in the context of HIV prevention. She has been involved in projects aimed at understanding the impact of the social environment on long term drug use, linkage to HIV care following release from correctional settings, and the relationship between incarceration and drug use behaviors. Research link Country: Kenya Discipline: Biology & Medicine Department: Health Services Policy and Practice George, Olakunle Associate Professor Olakunle George has research interests in African literary and cultural criticism, black-Atlantic discourses, post-colonial studies, and literary and cultural theory. Research link Countries: Nigeria, Ghana Discipline: Arts & Humanities Departments: Africana Studies, English Gill, Mary Louise Professor Mary Louise Gill focuses on the field of ancient Greek philosophy, and specializes on metaphysics, epistemology, method, and natural philosophy of Plato and Aristotle. Research link Country: Greece Discipline: Arts & Humanities Departments: Classics, Philosophy Gluck, Mary Professor Mary Gluck is an intellectual-cultural historian of nineteenth- and twentieth-century Europe. Her latest book focuses on Popular Bohemia: Modernism and Urban Culture in 19th-Century Paris. Currently, she is working on Jewish humor and assimilation in fin-de-siècle Budapest and on bohemias in a global perspective. Research link Countries: France, Hungary Discipline: Social Sciences Departments: History, Judaic Studies, Comparative Literature Goldstein, Michael Adjunct Professor Michael Goldstein researches smoking cessation and preventive interventions; he also studies strategies to enhance physical activity among patients with medical conditions. Research link Country: American Samoa Discipline: Biology & Medicine Department: Psychiatry and Human Behavior Golstein, Vladimir Associate Professor Vladimir Golstein's scholarly interests embrace Russian culture, religion, philosophy, and poetry, of the past two centuries. Research link Country: Russia Discipline: Arts & Humanities Department: Slavic Languages Golub, Spencer Professor Spencer Golub’s current research, which is often a hybrid of different fields, overlaps the disciplines of theatre studies and performance studies, incorporating investigations into cultural performance and event (especially, but not exclusively, in Russian/Soviet contexts) and mental performance and event. Research link Country: Russia Discipline: Arts & Humanities Departments: Comparative Literature, Slavic Languages, Theatre Arts and Performance Studies Gooley, Dana Associate Professor Dana Gooley’s main research centers on European music and musical culture in the 19th century. In the past he has conductted research in Berlin. Research link Country: Germany Discipline: Arts & Humanities Department: Music Gould, Philip Professor Philip Gould researches and writes about early American literature and culture, transatlantic theory and history, and antebellum American literature and politics. He has written books on such subjects American historical fiction, antislavery writing in the eighteenth century, and the Loyalist view of the American Revolution. His research focuses on the relations between literature and culture in both the 18th and 19th centuries, with a focus on British America, the early American republic, and the transatlantic field of Anglo-America. Research link Countries: United States, United Kingdom Discipline: Arts & Humanities Department: English Green, James Professor James N. Green's research focuses on the political, social and cultural history of 19th- and 20th-century Brazil. His books include: We Cannot Remain Silent: Opposition to the Brazilian Military Dictatorship in the United States (Duke, 2010) and Beyond Carnival: Male Homosexuality in Twentieth-century Brazil (University of Chicago, 1999). He is currently working on a biography of Herbert Daniel, a Brazilian guerrilla leader, political exile, and AIDS activist. He is the director of the Watson Institute's Brazil Initiative. Research link Country: Brazil Discipline: Social Sciences Departments: History, Portuguese and Brazilian Studies Greenberg, Benjamin Professor Benjamin Greenberg's research focuses on the pathophysiology and treatment of obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD). He uses brain stimulation, cognitive probes, and a variety of neuroimaging techniques to probe brain circuits implicated in symptom expression and in the response to treatment, and to reveal more about the neuroanatomical underpinnings of OCD symptoms. Research link Country: Brazil Discipline: Biology & Medicine Department: Psychiatry and Human Behavior Gross, Magdalena Lecturer Magdalena Gross's research focuses on the Polish schooling system in historical context, including "Reclaiming the Nation: Polish Schooling in Exile During the Second World War" (Aug, 2013) Research link Country: Poland Discipline: Social Sciences Department: Education Guerina, Nicholas Clinical Assistant Professor Nicholas Guerina studies interventions to improve neonatal survival in developing countries. Research link Country: Zambia Discipline: Biology & Medicine Department: Pediatrics Guldi, E Joanna Assistant Professor Jo Guldi specializes in the history of capitalism, land use, and the design of computational tools for visualizing large numbers of texts. Research link Country: United Kingdom Discipline: Social Sciences Department: History Guterl, Matthew Professor Matthew Guterl studies the American histories of "race" and "nation" in an international context. He considers how these concepts have evolved over time, how they relate to each other at important moments, how certain social forces that have shaped them, and how ordinary and extraordinary people are caught up in their histories. He has written four books on topics as different as the Great Migration, the Old South, racial profiling, and Josephine Baker's adopted family. Research link Countries: Haiti, Cuba Discipline: Social Sciences Departments: Africana Studies, American Studies Gutmann, Matthew Professor Matthew Gutmann's research and teaching focuses on masculinity; democracy and social change; poverty, inequality, and development; health; gender; and militarization. He is the author of three books about Mexico and the editor of Changing Men and Masculinities in Latin America. He is the director of the Brown International Advanced Research Institutes (BIARI). Research link Countries: Mexico, Haiti, Lebanon, Brazil, China Discipline: Social Sciences Department: Anthropology Guyer, Paul Professor Paul Guyer is a renowned scholar of German Idealism, especially Kant’s philosophy. Research link Country: Germany Discipline: Arts & Humanities Department: Philosophy Guzman, Johnny Associate Professor Johnny Guzman's main research interest lies in the area of numerical approximations to partial differential equations (PDEs). He works in devising new numerical methods for various PDEs and analyzing new or existing numerical methods. Research link Countries: Chile, India, Spain Discipline: Physical Sciences Department: Applied Mathematics Haddow, James Professor Research James Haddow’s applied research focuses on screening, with a most recent emphasis on prenatal screening for fetal and maternal disorders. Research link Country: United Kingdom Discipline: Biology & Medicine Department: Pathology and Laboratory Medicine Hamdy, Sherine Associate Professor Sherine Hamdy's research interests include cross-cultural approaches to medicine, health, and the body. Research link Country: Egypt Discipline: Social Sciences Department: Anthropology Hampton, Brittany Associate Professor Brittany Hampton takes a senior fellow with her annually in April for an outreach trip to Niger, West Africa. The objectives of the trip are to give women’s health aid where needed, create opportunities for international medical experiences for physicians-in-training, provide exposure to complicated/advanced problems in reconstructive pelvic surgery, and to gain experience in working towards a common goal with a multidisciplinary, multinational medical team. Research link Country: Niger Discipline: Biology & Medicine Department: Obstetrics and Gynecology Hanink, Johanna Assistant Professor Johanna Hanink is especially interested in Greek theatrical production as well as in performance in (and of) classical Athens. Research link Country: Greece Discipline: Arts & Humanities Department: Classics Harris, Timothy Professor Timothy Harris' research centers on the interaction between high politics and low politics and the study of popular protest, popular culture, religion, and politics in England, Scotland, and Ireland during Britain's Century of Revolutions. Research link Countries: United Kingdom, Ireland Discipline: Social Sciences Department: History Harrison, Abigail Assistant Professor Research Abigail Harrison's research addresses social and contextual influences on young women's reproductive decision-making in relation to HIV prevention and transmission in southern sub-Saharan Africa. Research link Country: South Africa Discipline: Social Sciences Departments: Behavioral and Social Sciences, Population Studies Harrison, Emily Clinical Assistant Professor Emily Harrison and a team of Brown doctors opened a clinic in rural Honduras in the summer of 2011. The facility, operated by a nongovernmental organization that Harrison directs called Shoulder to Shoulder, provides medicine and programs to improve nutrition and family planning. She is interested in Women's Health and Obstetrics. Research link Country: Honduras Discipline: Biology & Medicine Department: Family Medicine Harvey, Susan Professor Susan Harvey specializes in ancient Christianity of the Syriac and Byzantine traditions. She works on religion and the senses, religious culture and social history, women and gender, monasticism, asceticism, the cult of saints, hymnography, and historiography. Harvey is presently working on biblical women in Syriac hymnography and homiletics, and the Syriac women's choirs that performed these works. Research link Country: Syria Discipline: Arts & Humanities Department: Religious Studies Harwell, Joseph Clinical Associate Professor Joseph Harwell’s research focuses on HIV prevention, particularly among women and with mother-to-child transmission. Research link Countries: Cambodia, China, Indonesia, Papua New Guinea, Vietnam Discipline: Biology & Medicine Departments: Medicine, Pediatrics Hastings, Meredith Associate Professor Meredith Hasting's research focuses on the reactive nitrogen cycle, with an emphasis on nitrate deposition. Her interest in reactive nitrogen (e.g., NOx) extends from its connection to air quality through its impact on ozone and hydroxyl concentrations to the biogeochemical cycling of nitrogen in the earth system via formation of nitric acid (or nitrate), a major component of acid rain and a source of biologically available nitrogen. Research link Countries: Greenland, Brazil Discipline: Physical Sciences Department: Geological Sciences Haviland, Beverly Senior Lecturer/Visiting Associate Professor Beverly Haviland works on 19th-century American, English, and French Literatures, film, and cultural history. Her current research is on the representation of child sexual abuse in literature. Research link Countries: France, United Kingdom, United States Discipline: Social Sciences Department: American Studies Haynes, Kenneth Professor Kenneth Haynes studies the classical tradition in European literature and philosophy since the Renaissance, with particular attention to German and British Hellenism. Research link Countries: Germany, United Kingdom Discipline: Arts & Humanities Departments: Classics, Comparative Literature Head , James Professor James Head studies themes of planetary evolution and the role of volcanism and tectonism in the formation and evolution of planetary crusts. He has several research projects underway in the field in Antarctica, on the Earth's seafloor, and in assessing data from planetary surfaces to study climate change on Mars, volcanism on the Moon, Mars and Venus, the geology of the surface of Mercury and the tectonic and volcanic evolution of icy satellites. Research link Countries: Russia, United States, Antarctica Discipline: Physical Sciences Department: Geological Sciences Heintz, Ulrich Professor Ulrich Heintz studies the fundamental building blocks of matter. Their interactions are described by the standard model of elementary particle physics. Heintz is interested in testing the validity of this model at very high energies and carries out his research as a member of the CMS Collaboration at CERN and the D0 Collaboration at Fermilab. Research link Country: Switzerland Discipline: Physical Sciences Department: Physics Heller, Patrick Professor Patrick Heller studies how inequality shapes development, urban transformation, democracy and globalization. He has written on a range of topics including democratic deepening, social movements, state transformation and development policy. His work has drawn on extensive fieldwork, survey data and spatial analysis. Research link Countries: Brazil, South Africa, India Discipline: Social Sciences Departments: International Studies, Sociology Henderson, Vernon Professor Emeritus Vernon Henderson's current research focuses on systems of cities, industrial location, urban productivity, environmental regulation, and development of urban sub-centers, as well as tax and public service competition among cities. Research link Countries: United States, Canada, Brazil, Korea, China, India, Indonesia Discipline: Social Sciences Departments: Economics, Urban Studies Henry, Paget Professor Paget Henry's principle research focus is the economic and political problems of the Caribbean. In particular, Professor Henry is conducting research on the role of culture and the process of development in both the Caribbean and Africa. Research link Countries: Antigua and Barb., Ghana, Trinidad and Tobago, Guyana, Grenada, Barbados, Jamaica Discipline: Social Sciences Departments: Africana Studies, Sociology Herbert, Timothy Professor Timothy Herbert's research focuses on understanding how the earth's climatic system, particularly the ocean, adjusts itself to perturbation on various timescales. Research link Country: Peru Discipline: Physical Sciences Departments: Environmental Studies, Earth, Environmental, and Planetary Sciences Herlihy, Maurice Professor Maurice Herlihy's research interests focus on distributed computing, particularly multiprocessor synchronization and fault-tolerance. Research link Countries: Israel, Mexico, United Kingdom Discipline: Physical Sciences Department: Computer Science Hesthaven, Jan Adjunct Professor Jan Hesthaven's research interests focus on the development, analysis, and application of high-order accurate methods for the solution of partial differential equations. Research link Countries: France, Denmark Discipline: Physical Sciences Department: Mathematics Hoffman-Kim, Diane Associate Professor Diane Hoffman-Kim conducts research on understanding axon guidance in complex environments and developing biomaterial and tissue engineering strategies for nerve guidance and repair. Research link Country: Germany Discipline: Biology & Medicine Department: Molecular Pharmacology Physiology and Biotechnology Hogan, Joseph Professor Joseph Hogan's research concerns statistical methods for missing data, causal inference, and sensitivity analysis in HIV/AIDS. Research link Countries: Canada, Kenya, Argentina, India, Vietnam, China Discipline: Biology & Medicine Department: Biostatistics Hohenhaus, Mary Clinical Assistant Professor Mary Hohenhaus assists Jane Carter with the Kenya program. Since 2004, she has been involved in the Kenya exchange program where she rotated at the Moi University Teaching and Research Hospital in Eldoret as a senior resident in internal medicine. In August 2006, she returned as visiting faculty. Her main involvement is in recruitment, selection, and preparation of Brown faculty, house officers, and medical students for the exchange program; supervision of visiting Kenyan students during their medicine elective at the Miriam and Rhode Island Hospitals; and clinical teaching of medical students and house officers while in Eldoret. Research link Country: Kenya Discipline: Biology & Medicine Department: Medicine Hosmer, Jennifer Clinical Assistant Professor Jennifer Hosmer spent five days at the University Hospital of Kosovo where they perform approximately 10,000 deliveries a year. There, she observed their models of care, education (as it is a teaching hospital as well), and led patient scenario conferences where they discussed the evidence based practices used for preterm labor, preterm premature rupture of membranes, and IUGR. Research link Country: Kosovo Discipline: Biology & Medicine Department: Obstetrics and Gynecology Houston, Stephen Professor Stephen Houston's research interests include Classic Mayan and South American archaeology, kingship and court systems; body concepts in antiquity; writing systems; epigraphy and decipherment; and architecture and urbanism. Research link Countries: Guatemala, Mexico, Egypt Discipline: Social Sciences Department: Anthropology Hu, Lung-Hua Senior Lecturer Lung-Hua Hu’s research focuses on Mandarin Chinese phonology and grammar as well as pedagogy. She has also been working on assessing study abroad programs designed for American college students located in China and Taiwan and on methods and effectiveness of incorporating technology in the teaching of Chinese. Research link Countries: China, Taiwan Discipline: Arts & Humanities Department: East Asian Studies Hu-Dehart, Evelyn Professor Evelyn Hu-DeHart's research focuses on the Asian diaspora in Latin America and the Caribbean with the goal of uncovering and recovering the history of Asian migration, and to document and analyze the contributions of these immigrants to the formation of Latin/Caribbean societies and cultures. Research link Countries: Peru, China, Mexico, Peru Discipline: Social Sciences Departments: American Studies, History Huang, Yongsong Professor Yongsong Huang specializes in the development and application of organic isotope geochemistry and organic analytical chemistry to problems in the environment, paleoclimate, paleohydrology, and astrobiology. Currently, his funded research includes projects on Greenland, Sub-Saharan Africa, and Indonesia. Research link Countries: Greenland, Indonesia, Kenya Discipline: Physical Sciences Department: Geological Sciences Hurt, Robert Professor Robert Hurt’s research focuses on nanomaterials and their applications and implications for human health and the environment. He was visiting professor at the University of Sydney in 2002. Research link Country: Australia Discipline: Physical Sciences Department: Engineering Intrator, Nathan Adjunct Professor Nathan Intrator's research includes neural computation, machine learning, pattern recognition, and model estimation. Research link Country: Israel Discipline: Biology & Medicine Department: Brain and Neural Systems Ip, Julianne Clinical Associate Professor Julianne Ip is interested in International Medicine. She has been an Associate Dean of Medicine since 1985. Research link Country: China Discipline: Biology & Medicine Department: Family Medicine Itzigsohn, Jose Professor Jose Itzigsohn’s work focuses on identity and group formation, with a focus on processes of racialization, and ethnic and nation formation. He is also interested in the political economy of inequality. He is currently writing a book on industrial democracy in Argentina, studying the organizational forms of the worker-owned factories. Research link Countries: Argentina, Dominican Rep., El Salvador Discipline: Social Sciences Department: Sociology Izzo, Justin Assistant Professor Justin Izzo is particularly interested in the history of French anthropology and its relationship to fiction; literature and film from the Caribbean, West Africa, and the Indian Ocean; and representations of race in the novel. Research link Countries: France, Tunisia, Morocco, Ivory Coast, Gabon, Cameroon Discipline: Arts & Humanities Department: French Studies Jackson, Fred Director and Teaching Associate Fred Jackson has been running the research greenhouses at Brown for over 20 years. He is interested in the medicinal plants that indigenous people use in South America and teaches an ethnobotany course, "Botanical Roots of Modern Medicine," as well as a lab course on extracting and analyzing secondary compounds from medicinal plants. Research link Country: Brazil Discipline: Biology & Medicine Department: Ecology and Evolutionary Biology Jackson, Yuko Senior Lecturer Yuko Jackson teaches basic, intermediate and advanced levels of Japanese. Her primary interests are social linguistics, pragmatics, and teaching methodology, including effective incorporation of computer assisted learning into the curriculum and intercultural communication strategies. Research link Country: Japan Discipline: Arts & Humanities Department: East Asian Studies Jacobs, Nancy Associate Professor Nancy Jacobs has a broader interest in the intersection of the environment, social division, and power in Africa. Her current project examines intersections between African and European birders. She explores how local African, scientific, and colonial forces structured these relationships. Research link Country: South Africa Discipline: Social Sciences Departments: Africana Studies, History Jacobson, David Professor David Jacobson’s research focuses on the relationship of modern Hebrew literature to the Jewish tradition. His more recent research has focused on the relationship of contemporary Israeli poetry to the Jewish tradition. Research link Country: Israel Discipline: Arts & Humanities Department: Judaic Studies Jacobson, Pauline Professor Pauline Jacobson has taught at the European Summer School in Language, Logic, and Information and at the East Asian School in Language, Logic, and Computation. Her research focusses on the formal tools needed to model the syntactic and semantic systems of natural languages, with special emphasis on the interaction of syntax and semantics. Research link Countries: United Kingdom, China Discipline: Life Sciences Department: Cognitive Linguistic and Psychological Sciences Jamieson, Amanda Assistant Professor Amanda Jamieson's research focuses on understanding infectious and non-infectious diseases of the lung, specifically how multiple lung diseases interact and influence each other. Using clinically relevant model systems she examines the impact of the lung microbiome on pulmonary diseases, alterations of the immune response during viral/bacterial coinfection, and the alteration of epithelial cells and tissue repair mechanisms during pulmonary infections, coinfections, and other lung diseases. Research link Countries: Austria, Brazil Discipline: Biology & Medicine Department: Molecular Microbiology and Immunology Janis, Christine Professor Christine Janis primarily focuses on the evolutionary history of large mammals. She is currently working with the University of Helsinki to combine Eurasian data with North American data concerning mammalian community patterns over the past 20 million years. Research link Countries: Finland, Spain, Switzerland, United Kingdom, Canada Discipline: Biology & Medicine Department: Ecology and Evolutionary Biology Jenny, Carole Professor Carole Jenny works with crash test dummies at the Aprica Child Care institute to study the biomechanics of accidental and inflicted head trauma in infants. Research link Country: Japan Discipline: Biology & Medicine Department: Pediatrics Jevicki, Antal Professor Antal Jevicki's interests comprise Quantum Field Theory (String Theory, Quantum Gravity, Black Holes, Non-perturbative and Collective Phenomena). More recently he has carried out research at CERN (Geneva), ITP (Santa Barbara), École Normale Supérieure (Paris), The Yukawa Institute (Kyoto), and the University of Tokyo. Research link Countries: France, Switzerland, Japan Discipline: Physical Sciences Department: Physics Josephson, David Professor David Josephson’s current research examines the forced emigration of musicians and music scholars from Nazi and Fascist Europe from 1933 to 1945. Research link Country: Germany Discipline: Arts & Humanities Department: Music Joukowsky , Martha Professor Martha Joukowsky researches the domestication of plants and animals, the advent of Middle East urbanism and the varied cultural developments in Anatolia (ancient Turkey), Syro-Palestine, and ancient Iran. Research link Countries: Jordan, Turkey, Syria, Palestinian Territories, Iran Discipline: Social Sciences Department: Anthropology Kantor, Rami Associate Professor Rami Kantor's research focuses on the evolution of HIV drug resistance to antiretroviral medications, which jeopardizes treatment success. More specifically, he is studying the evolution of drug resistance in HIV variants that predominate in resource-limited settings and in developing countries, where the majority of the AIDS epidemic is located. He is the research director of the Brown University–Kenya program. Research link Countries: India, Kenya, Brazil Discipline: Biology & Medicine Department: Medicine Karniadakis, George Professor George Karniadakis' research interests include diverse topics in computational science both on algorithms and applications. Research link Countries: United Kingdom, China Discipline: Physical Sciences Department: Applied Mathematics Karp, Caroline Senior Lecturer Caroline Karp conducts research on coastal and marine watershed management, water law, and urban environmental policy. Research link Countries: Madagascar, Indonesia, Senegal Discipline: Social Sciences Department: Environmental Studies Katz, E Tamar Associate Professor Tamar Katz's research interests are in 20th-century literature, with a focus on British modernism, urban literature, and gender studies. Research link Country: United Kingdom Discipline: Arts & Humanities Departments: English, Urban Studies Keach, William Professor William Keach has research interests in 18th- and 19th-century British literature and culture, including Blake, Wollstonecraft, Wordsworth, Coleridge, Byron, Shelley, Keats, and other writers in what is still called the "Romantic" tradition, as well as literary theory, historical materialism, and transatlantic literary culture. Research link Country: United Kingdom Discipline: Arts & Humanities Department: English Keita, Akilah Assistant Professor Akilah Keita’s research focuses on identifying neighborhood contexts of diet, physical activity, obesity and obesity-related comorbidities. She is also interested in using mixed methods approaches to identify culturally appropriate childhood obesity interventions for under-served Asian populations. Research link Countries: Cambodia, Vietnam, Laos Discipline: Social Sciences Department: Behavioral and Social Sciences Kellner, James Assistant Professor James Kellner's research examines the structure of forests and trees over large geographic areas, and how they are changing over time, especially in tropical systems. He combines environmental remote sensing with field studies, quantitative methods, and modeling to address questions in both basic and applied science from ecological and evolutionary perspectives. Research link Countries: Panama, Brazil Discipline: Biology & Medicine Department: Ecology and Evolutionary Biology Kennedy, Michael Professor Michael Kennedy’s research areas include intellectuals and professionals in East European social movements and systemic change, cultural politics, knowledge networks and global transformations, attending especially to the European Union, nationalism, universities, social movements, and energy security in these terms. Research link Countries: Russia, Poland, Afghanistan Discipline: Social Sciences Department: Sociology Kertzer, David Professor David Kertzer's research interests include Italian politics and history, anthropological demography, social organization, politics and symbols, political economy and family systems, age structuring, European historical demography and the history of Catholic Church-Jewish relations. Research link Countries: Italy, Vatican City Discipline: Social Sciences Departments: Anthropology, Italian Studies Kervennic, Youenn Senior Lecturer Youenn Kervennic teaches French language classes with an emphasis on culture and civilization. He also serves as Resident Director for the Brown-in-France program in Paris. Research link Country: France Discipline: Arts & Humanities Department: French Studies Khalek, Nancy Associate Professor Nancy Khalek’s research focuses on the formative period of Islamic history. Her other research interests include hagiography, biography and historiography in the Byzantine and Islamic worlds, relic and saint veneration, Christian-Muslim dialogue, and the relationship of material culture to religious life. Over the years, she has also conducted archaeological and ethnographic field work in Jordan, Syria, Greece and Turkey. Research link Countries: Jordan, Syria, Greece, Turkey Discipline: Arts & Humanities Department: Religious Studies Khalip, Jacques Associate Professor Jacques Khalip is interested in British Romanticism and queer studies. Research link Country: United Kingdom Discipline: Arts & Humanities Department: English Kidd, Stephen Assistant Professor Stephen Kidd studies Greek literature with a focus on comedy. He is also internested in the concept of play, the concept of education ( paideia ), Hellenistic Egypt, and the comparison of ancient literatures beyond those of Greece and Rome. Research link Countries: Greece, Italy, Egypt Discipline: Arts & Humanities Department: Classics Kiene, Susan Adjunct Assistant Professor Susan Kiene studies behaviors that put individuals at risk for HIV/AIDS and methods for preventing HIV transmission. Her research program in rural Uganda aims to develop effective and sustainable methods to empower individuals for HIV/AIDS protection and transmission prevention. Research link Countries: Uganda, South Africa, Puerto Rico Discipline: Social Sciences Department: Behavioral and Social Sciences Kim, Daniel Associate Professor Daniel Kim's primary research field is 20th-century U.S. literature with a particular focus on the Asian American and African American traditions, ethnic studies, gender studies, and the Cold War. Research link Country: Korea Discipline: Arts & Humanities Departments: American Studies, English Kim, Kyung-Suk Professor Kyung-Suk Kim has played a central role in understanding and utilizing mechanical behavior of nanostructures by developing creative theories and conducting precision experiments. His collaborative research has received funds from Korea and Singapore. Research link Countries: Korea, Singapore Discipline: Physical Sciences Department: Engineering Kim, Seunghyun Associate Professor Research Seunghyun Kim is interested in piezoelectric materials and energy applications. He is a participating member of various Korean committees, societies, and associations. Research link Country: Korea Discipline: Physical Sciences Department: Engineering King, Dawn Lecturer Dawn King's areas of research and writing focus on urban agriculture and local food economies, environmental and LGBT social movements in Latin America, comparative environmental politics, urban sustainability policy, and sustainable development in Cuba. Research link Country: Cuba Discipline: Physical Sciences Department: Environmental Studies Kingon, Angus Professor Angus Kingon’s research focuses on entrepreneurship technology and commerce. He has been involved in the establishment of various technology entrepreneurship programs at universities in the UK, Portugal, Slovenia, Korea, Ireland, and South Africa. He also serves as Academic Co-Director for the IE Brown Executive MBA Program. Research link Countries: South Africa, Spain, United Kingdom, Portugal, Slovenia, Korea, Ireland Discipline: Physical Sciences Department: Engineering Klivans, Caroline Lecturer Caroline Klivans' research interests include Algebraic, Geometric, and Topological Combinatorics: simplicial complexes, matroids, oriented matroids, polytopes, combinatorial Laplacians, CD manifolds, phylogenetic trees, hyperplane arrangements. Research link Country: Brazil Discipline: Departments: Applied Mathematics, Computer Science Kniesche, Thomas Associate Professor Thomas Kniesche's areas of expertise include modern German literature, intellectual history, literary theory, and psychoanalysis. Research link Country: Germany Discipline: Arts & Humanities Department: German Studies Kohn, Robert Professor Robert Kohn's research has focused on psychiatric epidemiology and geriatric psychiatry. He has conducted international research on the prevalence of mental illness, service utilization, stigma, social class, and schizophrenia, stress including natural disasters, terrorism, and immigration. His research in geriatric psychiatry has examined neuropsychiatric risk factors, obsessive compulsive disorder (OCD), suicide, delivery of services to the homebound, and the course of depression. Research link Countries: Israel, United States, Brazil, Chile, Dominica, Ethiopia, Guatemala, Honduras, Panama, Uruguay, Spain, South Africa, Sweden Discipline: Biology & Medicine Department: Psychiatry and Human Behavior Konstan, David Professor Emeritus David Konstan's investigates the emotions and value concepts of classical Greece in Rome, and has written books on friendship, pity, the emotions, and forgiveness. He has also worked on ancient physics and atomic theory, and on literary theory. Research link Countries: Italy, Greece Discipline: Arts & Humanities Departments: Classics, Comparative Literature Koster, Michael Assistant Professor Michael Koster’s area of interest is in physician decision making regarding diagnosis and testing of pneumonia and meningitis. Research link Countries: Haiti, Rwanda, Ukraine Discipline: Biology & Medicine Department: Pediatrics Kosterlitz, J. Michael Professor J Michael Kosterlitz conducts research in condensed matter theory, one- and two-dimensional physics; in phase transitions: random systems, electron localization, and spin glasses; and in critical dynamics: melting and freezing. Research link Countries: Italy, Korea Discipline: Physical Sciences Department: Physics Koul, Ashok Senior Lecturer Ashok Koul's interests lie in the field of South Asian languages and linguistics. He is interested in syntax, as well as language teaching and learning. He has also co-authored a textbook, Colloquial Urdu, published by Routledge. His forthcoming books are Lexical Borrowings in Kashmiri, Hindi-Urdu for Beginners or Travelers, and The Colloquial English-Hindi/Urdu Wordbook. Research link Country: India Discipline: Arts & Humanities Department: Language Studies Krause, Sharon Professor Sharon Krause works in the area of political theory. She has research interests in classical and contemporary liberalism; democratic theory; theories of freedom; the history of political thought; 18th-century studies (especially Hume and Montesquieu); political judgment and deliberative democracy; passions and politics; and feminism and political theory. Research link Countries: France, United Kingdom Discipline: Social Sciences Department: Political Science Krause, Virginia Associate Professor Virginia Krause's research interests focus on Renaissance France, particularly early modern romance, the history of leisure, and witchcraft. Research link Country: France Discipline: Arts & Humanities Department: French Studies Kuo, Caroline Assistant Professor Research Caroline Kuo conducts research on addressing mental health and HIV disparities among vulnerable populations through rigorous, evidence-based interventions that are culturally appropriate and sustainable in low-resource communities. Research link Countries: South Africa, Kenya, Mexico Discipline: Social Sciences Department: Behavioral and Social Sciences Kurtis, Jonathan Professor Jonathan Kurtis applies the techniques of molecular biology, immunology and population biology to identify vaccine candidates for both malaria and schistosomiasis in east Africa and the Philippines. By analyzing the relationship between specific immune responses and naturally acquired resistance in endemic populations, Kurtis identifies and characterizes new vaccine candidates. His current interests include the modulation of protective immune responses by nutritional and developmental factors in the human host and the identification of vaccine candidates for pediatric falciparum malaria. Research link Countries: Philippines, China, Brazil, Kenya Discipline: Biology & Medicine Department: Pathology and Laboratory Medicine Kuzner, James Assistant Professor James Kuzner has research interests in early modern literature and culture, critical theory, cognitive theory, and the histories of selfhood, sexuality, and skepticism. Research link Country: United Kingdom Discipline: Arts & Humanities Department: English Kwara, Awewura Associate Professor Awewura Kwara's research is focused on understanding the molecular, biological and clinical factors underlying the inter-individual variability in HIV and TB treatment response in individuals with HIV and TB coinfection. Research link Country: Ghana Discipline: Biology & Medicine Department: Medicine LaFontaine, Donna Clinical Associate Professor Donna LaFontaine studies models of care, education, and evidence based practices used for preterm labor, preterm premature rupture of membranes, and IUGR. Research link Country: Kosovo Discipline: Biology & Medicine Department: Obstetrics and Gynecology Lagasse, Linda Associate Professor Research Linda Lagasse's research focuses on the effects of prenatal exposure to drugs of abuse on child development and the effects of cognitive processes on directed reaching in high risk children. Research link Countries: New Zealand, Brazil Discipline: Biology & Medicine Department: Pediatrics Lambe, Jennifer Assistant Professor Jennifer Lambe's research explores the intersection between political history, intellectual debates, and popular culture within Latin American and Carribbean history. Her current work traces the history of mental illness and mental healing in Cuba from the colonial period through 1980. Research link Country: Cuba Discipline: Social Sciences Department: History Landsberg, Greg Professor Greg Landsberg does research in elementary particle physics, specifically experimental investigation of the fundamental particles and fields at the energy frontier accelerators. His main research activity is the search for new physics phenomena, including extra dimensions in space. Research link Country: Switzerland Discipline: Physical Sciences Department: Physics Larmore, Charles Professor Charles Larmore's work in moral and political philosophy has focused on such topics as the foundations of political liberalism, the nature of the self, and the nature of moral judgment. He has also published extensively on figures and problems in the history of philosophy, particularly in the area of 17th-century philosophy and on German Idealism, as well as on the nature of reason and reasons. He is currently at work on a book about the nature of freedom. Research link Country: Germany Discipline: Arts & Humanities Department: Philosophy Lee, Jung-Eun Assistant Professor Jung-Eun Lee studies the global water cycle, focusing on how the terrestrial ecosystem influences and is influenced by the physical climate system. His recent works range from interpreting Antarctic temperatures around 15 Million years ago to quantifying the degree of water stress for Amazonian trees. Research link Countries: Brazil, Antarctica Discipline: Physical Sciences Department: Geological Sciences Lee, Robert Associate Professor Robert Lee studies the history of Asians in the United States, racial formations, and relations between Asia and America. Research link Countries: Japan, China, Korea Discipline: Social Sciences Department: American Studies Leinaweaver, Jessaca Associate Professor Jessaca Leinaweaver's research focuses on cultural anthropology and anthropological demography within Peru and the Peruvian diaspora. She has published on informal child fostering in the urban Andes, aging in Andean Peru, and transnational adoption and migration from Peru to Spain. Research link Countries: Peru, Spain Discipline: Social Sciences Department: Anthropology Lepore, Michael Adjunct Assistant Professor Michael Lepore has researched to identify strategies, barriers, motivators, and other key factors of improvement in patient care. He has a number of research collaborations with hospitals and long-term care settings in Brazil and Sub-Saharan Africa. Research link Countries: Brazil, Canada, Netherlands, Kenya Discipline: Biology & Medicine Department: Health Services Policy and Practice Leslie, Andrew Assistant Professor Andrew Leslie's research examines the drivers of morphological diversification in organisms by investigating relationships between form and function in plant reproductive structures and studying how these interactions generate and influence evolutionary patterns over million-year time scales. Drawing upon broader phylogenetic, geological, and ecological contexts, his work incorporates techniques from phylogenetics, paleontology, biomechanics, and biogeography. Research link Countries: Mongolia, New Caledonia Discipline: Life Sciences Department: Ecology and Evolutionary Biology Leslie, Heather Assistant Professor Heather Leslie is interested in the ecological and social processes that link people and marine ecosystems, and how to more effectively integrate science into marine policy and management. Her research areas include coastal ecology, the design and evaluation of marine conservation and management strategies, and human-environment interactions. Research link Country: Mexico Disciplines: Biology & Medicine, Social Sciences Departments: Ecology and Evolutionary Biology, Environmental Studies Lester, Barry Professor Barry Lester's research focuses on children at risk of poor developmental outcome based on both social factors (poverty, home environment, and parenting) and biological factors (prenatal substance exposure, stress, maternal depression, and prematurity), the role of the caregiving environment in mediating long-term outcome, and the development of intervention programs. He is the founding director of the Brown Center for the Study of Children at Risk. Research link Countries: New Zealand, Brazil Discipline: Biology & Medicine Departments: Pediatrics, Psychiatry and Human Behavior Levitsky, Alexander Professor Alexander Levitsky's principal areas of research include 18th-Century and Modern Russian literature, Slavic Baroque (Russian, Ukrainian, Czech and Polish), Czech literature, theory and practice of translation. Research link Countries: Russia, Ukraine, Czech Republic, Poland Discipline: Arts & Humanities Department: Slavic Languages Levy, Dore Professor Dore Levy studies classical Chinese poetry and fiction, forms of narrative literature, and East Asian and European literature. Research link Country: China Discipline: Arts & Humanities Departments: Comparative Literature, East Asian Studies Li, Jin Professor Jin Li’s current research project studies how children (from preschoolers to college students) across cultures and ethnic groups develop learning beliefs, and how their beliefs influence their learning and achievement. Research link Countries: China, Taiwan, Russia, United Kingdom Discipline: Social Sciences Department: Education Lincoln, Evelyn Professor Evelyn Lincoln’s research on printing and printmaking in early modern Europe looks at how images were made to obtain and display access to knowledge, power, and patronage for communities of readers with a common literacy in image and text. Her work also comprises research into the larger visual culture of early modern Italy and the role and creation of imagery in all media. Research link Country: Italy Discipline: Arts & Humanities Departments: History of Art and Architecture, Italian Studies Lindstrom, David Professor David Lindstrom’s research examines the determinants and consequences of migration in economically developing societies, the transition into adulthood, and the changing dynamics of reproductive health and behavior. Research link Countries: Mexico, Guatemala, Ethiopia Discipline: Social Sciences Department: Sociology Lipscombe, Diane Professor Diane Lipscombe is interested in the cellular mechanisms used to optimize calcium ion channel function. Calcium ion channels regulate many critical neuronal functions including transmitter release, nerve growth, and synaptic plasticity. Research link Country: Canada Discipline: Biology & Medicine Department: Neuroscience Litchfield, Robert Professor Emeritus Robert Litchfield studies Florentine early modern economic, social, and urban history. He is currently working on Portuguese and Spanish nobles at the Medici court in the 16th-17th centuries, and Florentine commercial relations through Livorno, Portugal, and Spain with the Atlantic World. Research link Countries: Portugal, Spain, Italy Discipline: Social Sciences Department: History Littman, Michael Professor Michael Littman’s research focuses on machine learning, and examines algorithms for decision making under uncertainty. Research link Countries: Netherlands, Singapore Discipline: Physical Sciences Department: Computer Science Liu, Joseph Professor Joseph Liu’s most recent research has focused on the role of longitudinal vortices in heat and mass transfer enhancement and in the promotion of rapid free mixing. Research link Countries: France, Germany Discipline: Physical Sciences Department: Engineering Liu, Simin Professor Simin Liu's research focuses on the etiology of chronic diseases, with special emphasis on identifying nutritional and molecular strategies that could be used for the prediction, diagnosis, and prevention of these conditions in human populations. His current research is at the interface of nutrition and genomics with an emphasis on understanding their interplay in affecting metabolic and vascular outcomes. Research link Countries: Canada, Brazil, China Discipline: Biology & Medicine Departments: Epidemiology, Medicine Liu, Tao Assistant Professor Research Tao Liu investigates HIV/AIDS, alcoholism, and has participated in projects in Sub-Saharan Africa, mainly in Kenya. Research link Countries: Kenya, China Discipline: Biology & Medicine Department: Biostatistics Locke, Richard Professor Richard Locke teaches graduate and undergraduate courses on the political economy of labor and development, as well as on global entrepreneurship. He is the Provost of Brown University. His current research is focused on improving labor and environmental conditions in global supply chains. Research link Countries: Brazil, Italy, Germany, Mexico Discipline: Social Sciences Departments: International Studies, Political Science Logan, John Professor John Logan's research interests lie in immigration, segregation, urban sociology and China. His current work includes studies of the impact of hurricanes in the Gulf Coast, of neighborhood change and individual mobility in U.S. cities in the period 1880-1940 and today, and of social change in China, with a focus on the impacts of market transition. Research link Countries: China, Spain, Brazil Discipline: Social Sciences Department: Sociology Loucks, Eric Assistant Professor Eric Loucks' research focuses on elucidating biological mechanisms by which social and psychosocial factors may influence cardiovascular disease. This includes assessing causal associations between education, childhood family psychosocial environment, health and biological risk factors. Research link Country: Canada Discipline: Biology & Medicine Department: Epidemiology Loury, Glenn Professor Glenn Loury is an academic economist who has made scholarly contributions to the fields of welfare economics, income distribution, game theory, industrial organization, and natural resource economics. Loury has been a visiting scholar at Oxford, Tel Aviv University, the University of Stockholm, the Delhi School of Economics, the Institute for the Human Sciences in Vienna, and the Institute for Advanced Study at Princeton. He is a member of the Council on Foreign Relations. Research link Countries: United Kingdom, Sweden, Austria, Israel, India Discipline: Social Sciences Department: Economics Lowe, David Associate Professor David Lowe's research primarily centers around applications of string theory to gravitational physics, including using string theory to understand questions in black holes physics and cosmology. Research link Countries: Israel, Mexico Discipline: Physical Sciences Department: Physics Lubar, Steven Professor Steven Lubar's research projects include work on museum history, material culture, and the digital humanities. Research link Countries: Hong Kong, Japan Discipline: Social Sciences Department: American Studies Lurie, Mark Associate Professor Mark Lurie is working on HIV/AIDS, sexually transmitted infections and tuberculosis in Sub-Saharan Africa. He has studied the role of migration in the spread of HIV in South Africa; examined the evidence for concurrency as a major driver of the HIV epidemic; and studied the impact of antiretroviral therapy on HIV epidemic dynamics in Sub-Saharan Africa. Research link Country: South Africa Discipline: Biology & Medicine Department: Epidemiology Lutz, Catherine Professor Catherine Lutz conducts research on the military, war, and society; cars, culture, and inequality; race and gender; democracy; subjectivity and power; photography and cultural history; critical theory; anthropological methods; sociocultural contexts of science and technology; U.S. 20th-century history and ethnography. Research link Countries: Guam, Japan, Philippines, Afghanistan, Iraq, Pakistan, Korea Discipline: Social Sciences Departments: Anthropology, International Studies Lynch, Amanda Professor Amanda Lynch is the Director of the Environmental Change Initiative. Her research is centered on climate policy, environmental governance, and the role of indigenous knowledge in adaptation to global change. Research link Country: Australia Discipline: Physical Sciences Department: Geological Sciences Mancebo, Maria Assistant Professor (Research) Maria Mancebo's research focuses on anxiety disorders, behavioral therapies, dissemination and implementation of evidence based psychosocial treatments, and long-term outcome of OCD. Her current work studies the long-term outcome of OCD and investigates the efficacy of an exercise intervention for OCD. Research link Country: Brazil Discipline: Biology & Medicine Department: Psychiatry and Human Behavior Mandel, Maud Professor Maud Mandel is the Dean of the College. Her research focuses primarily on the impact of policies and practices of inclusion and exclusion on ethnic and religious minorities in 20th-century France, most notably Jews, Armenians, and Muslim North Africans. Research link Countries: France, Armenia Discipline: Social Sciences Departments: History, Judaic Studies Mandre, Shreyas Assistant Professor Shreyas Mandre is a theorist researching problems in mechanics with applications to a wide array of fields, including fluid structure interaction, interface-driven flows, environmental and ecological fluid mechanics, biomechanics, analytical and numerical solution of partial differential equations, and optimization. Research link Countries: Japan, India, Canada Discipline: Physical Sciences Department: Engineering Marshall, Brandon Assistant Professor Brandon Marshall's research interests focus on substance use epidemiology and the social, environmental, and structural determinants of health of urban populations. In particular, his work seeks to inform public health and policy interventions that improve the health of drug users. He is also interested in applying complex systems methods to examine factors that perpetuate HIV transmission, and to identify interventions that reduce infectious disease spread in drug-using populations. Research link Country: Canada Discipline: Biology & Medicine Department: Epidemiology Marston, John Professor John Marston's research in the field of theoretical condensed matter physics focuses on the non-equilibrium statistical physics of atmospheres and oceans for the purpose of understanding climate and climate change. Research link Countries: United Kingdom, Australia, Canada Discipline: Physical Sciences Department: Physics Martin, Courtney Assistant Professor Courtney Martin specializes in modern and contemporary Art, 20th-century British art and sculpture studies. Her current research looks at art after 1968, the history of art criticism and exhibitions. Research link Countries: United Kingdom, United States, Denmark Discipline: Arts & Humanities Department: History of Art and Architecture Martinez, Monica Assistant Professor Monica Martinez's research focuses on moments of violence in history and their impact on social relations. Her work examines how local residents challenged the state-sanctioned violence during the 20th-century civil rights movement in the American Southwest and traces how the legacy of that period affects social relations in the American Southwest today. Research link Country: Mexico Discipline: Social Sciences Department: American Studies Martinez, Ronald Professor Ronald Martinez has published some forty scholarly essays on Dante, Petrarch, Boccaccio, Ariosto, and Machiavelli, co-authored a book on Dante's lyrics, and translated Italian plays and literary criticism. In addition to Dante and Trecento Studies, his research interests include Renaissance drama and cultural history. Research link Country: Italy Discipline: Arts & Humanities Department: Italian Studies Martinez-Pinzon, Felipe Assistant Professor Felipe Martínez-Pinzón specializes in 19th century Latin American Literature and Culture. His research focuses on the uneasy pairing of nation-building discourses and cultural constructions of territory. Research link Country: Colombia Discipline: Department: Hispanic Studies Mason, Katherine Assistant Professor Katherine A. Mason's research addresses issues in medical anthropology, anthropological demography, population health, bioethics, global health, science and technology studies, China studies, and gender studies. Her current projects include an examination of HIV/AIDS stigma among Chinese immigrants in New York City, and a study of perinatal mood disorders in the US and China. Research link Countries: China, United States Discipline: Social Sciences Department: Anthropology Maxey, Martin Professor Martin Maxey's research focuses on dynamical systems and partial differential equations and scaling laws. Research link Countries: Germany, France Discipline: Physical Sciences Departments: Applied Mathematics, Engineering Mayer, Kenneth Adjunct Professor Kenneth Mayer has been the principal investigator of an international training grant funded by the Fogarty International Center of the National Institutes of Health (NIH), which has led to new collaborations to define the natural history of HIV in India and to develop cost effective monitoring strategies for people living with HIV as they access generic antiretroviral therapy. Research link Countries: India, Cambodia, Indonesia, Vietnam Discipline: Biology & Medicine Departments: Epidemiology, Medicine Mazzucchelli, Aldo Assistant Professor Aldo Mazzucchelli is currently researching for a book which makes use of Julio Piquet journalism in order to focus on the modernization of Latin America in 1880-1929. Research link Countries: Uruguay, Argentina Discipline: Department: Hispanic Studies McClain, James Professor James McClain has taught and researched the history of early modern Japan at Brown for nearly a quarter century. He is currently researching a book to be entitled Tokyo Modern: The Dominance of the Middle-class in Twentieth Century Japan. Research link Country: Japan Discipline: Social Sciences Department: History McCloy, Stephen Clinical Assistant Professor Stephen McCloy is interested in international health and needs assessment in Central America. He is also an occupational doctor. Research link Country: Guatemala Discipline: Biology & Medicine Department: Medicine McGarrell, Matthew Senior Lecturer Matthew McGarrell performs and contributes to several Portuguese bands including the Sociedade Filarmónica de Covões and Banda Musical e Recreativa de Penalva do Castelo. His work focuses on the preparation of editions of Portuguese band music collected in Portugal for performance by American bands. Research link Country: Portugal Discipline: Arts & Humanities Department: Music McGarvey, Stephen Professor Director of the International Health Institute, Stephen McGarvey is concerned with issues of human population biology and international health, specifically modernization-related induced socio-economic and behavioral changes, gene by environment interactions on cardiovascular disease risk factors, tropical parasitology and child nutritional status and health, and environmental issues. Research link Countries: Samoa, Philippines, South Africa, Ghana, Kenya Discipline: Biology & Medicine Departments: Anthropology, Epidemiology McLaughlin, Kevin Professor Kevin McLaughlin's research focuses on literature and philosophy in the 19th century. Research link Countries: United Kingdom, Germany, France Discipline: Arts & Humanities Departments: Comparative Literature, English, German Studies McLaughlin, Nicole Assistant Professor (Research) Nicole McLaughlin's research investigates neurosurgical interventions in OCD and studies cognitive endophenotypes of OCD. Her work examines changes in neural connectivity after capsulotomy for intractable OCD. Her current work includes Deep Brain Stimulation for OCD Clinical Trial and projects in olfaction of Alzheimer's disease and the functional status of Parkinson's disease. Research link Country: Brazil Discipline: Biology & Medicine Department: Psychiatry and Human Behavior Meeks, Brian Professor Brian Meeks has published eight books and edited collections, including "Caribbean Revolutions and Revolutionary Theory", 1993 and 2001, "Envisioning Caribbean Futures: Jamaican Perspectives", 2007 and "The Thought of New World: The Quest for Decolonisation" (ed. with Norman Girvan) 2010. His first novel, "Paint the Town Red" was published in 2003. Research link Countries: Jamaica, Grenada, Trinidad and Tobago Discipline: Social Sciences Department: Africana Studies Melillo, Jerry Professor Jerry Melillo's research focuses on the impacts of human activities on the biogeochemistry of terrestrial ecosystems. He has studied carbon and nitrogen cycling in ecosystems across the globe, including arctic shrublands in northern Sweden, temperate forests in North America, and tropical forests and pastures in the Amazon Basin of Brazil. He is a senior scientist and former co-director of the Ecosystems Center at the MBL. Research link Countries: Brazil, Sweden, United States Discipline: Biology & Medicine Department: Ecology and Evolutionary Biology Mendicino, Kristina Assistant Professor Kristina Mendicino's interests include the rhetoric of prophecy in German Idealism and Romanticism, translation, poetic and philosophical articulations of temporality, and choreography. Research link Country: Germany Discipline: Arts & Humanities Department: German Studies Menon, Govind Professor Govind Menon's research interests lie in mathematical physics with a focus on the interplay between dynamical systems, integrable systems, kinetic theory and probability theory. His application areas of interest include fluid mechanics, materials science, physical chemistry and biological and synthetic self-assembly. Research link Countries: Germany, India, New Zealand, Brazil Discipline: Physical Sciences Department: Applied Mathematics Merrim, Stephanie Professor Stephanie Merrim has research interests in colonial Latin American historiography, the Baroque, early modern women's writing, and contemporary North and South American literatures. Research link Country: Mexico Discipline: Arts & Humanities Departments: Comparative Literature, Hispanic Studies Michalopoulos, Stylianos G Assistant Professor Stylianos Michalopoulus is currently researching effects of decentralization in African regions and economic measures of ethnic inequality. Research link Countries: Angola, Namibia, Mozambique Discipline: Social Sciences Department: Economics Michaud, Dominique Professor Dominique Michaud's research areas include the etiology of bladder, pancreas, and brain cancers, immune response, and genetic susceptibility. Research link Country: United Kingdom Discipline: Biology & Medicine Department: Epidemiology Mignone, Lisa Assistant Professor Lisa Mignone studies Roman social history, especially the ongoing and interactive relationship of historical events and the sites in which they occur. Research link Country: Italy Discipline: Arts & Humanities Department: Classics Mileno, Maria Associate Professor Maria Mileno research interests include returned travelers with illness and care of immunocompromised travelers. She is a member of the review committee for the Foreign Studies Fellowship at Brown, a program which funds students who wish to do research overseas. Research link Country: Discipline: Biology & Medicine Department: Medicine Miller, Nicholas Assistant Professor Nicholas Miller's research focuses on nuclear proliferation, foreign military intervention, and civil war. His current work seeks to explain the puzzling decline in the number of states pursuing nuclear weapons. Research link Countries: Pakistan, China, India Discipline: Social Sciences Departments: International Studies, Political Science Mimiaga, Matthew Professor Matthew Mimiaga's research focuses on behavioral medicine, infectious disease and psychiatric epidemiology, and global health. His research involves conducting longitudinal epidemiological investigations, mixed-methods (qualitative/quantitative) research, and developing and testing both behavioral and biomedical intervention trials. Research link Countries: Brazil, India, South Africa, Vietnam, Zambia, Thailand, Peru, Ukraine, Russia Discipline: Biology & Medicine Department: Behavioral and Social Sciences Montague, Brian Assistant Professor Brian Montague’s current research focuses on the quality of care for patients living with HIV and developing metrics for evaluation of adequacy of linkage to care for persons released from prisons/jails to the community. As part of his work in Uganda, he is partnering with local investigators to address the problem of tuberculosis in pregnancy amongst inpatients at Mulago Hospital and to evaluate the impact of treatment for HIV in pregnancy on transmission of hepatitis B from mother to baby. Research link Country: Uganda Discipline: Biology & Medicine Departments: Medicine, Health Services Policy and Practice Mor, Vincent Professor Vincent Mor is currently carrying out a study with Zhanlian Feng to develop and test a survey of nursing homes in China. He focuses on the organizational and health care delivery system factors associated with variation in use of health services and the outcomes frail and chronically ill persons experience. Research link Country: China Discipline: Biology & Medicine Department: Morrow, Kathleen Associate Professor Kathleen Morrow’s research focuses on behavioral HIV/STI prevention interventions, and the development of biomedical products and devices for HIV/STI prevention. Research link Country: South Africa Discipline: Biology & Medicine Departments: Behavioral and Social Sciences, Psychiatry and Human Behavior Morse, Douglass Professor Research Douglass Morse researches host-parasitoid interactions, sexual selection, and behavioral ecology. He has been a visiting scholar at universities in Sweden, England, New Zealand, and Australia. Research link Countries: Sweden, United Kingdom, New Zealand, Australia Discipline: Biology & Medicine Department: Ecology and Evolutionary Biology Moser, Jeffrey Assistant Professor Jeffrey Moser's research deals primarily with the artistic and intellectual history of China during the Song era (tenth to thirteenth centuries AD), with a particular focus on the ways in which sensory engagement with material things transformed cognition and behavior. As a matter of both history and historiography, he is interested in how objects catalyze new uses of the past. Research link Country: China Discipline: Arts & Humanities Department: History of Art and Architecture Mostefai, Ourida Professor Ourida Mostefai’s research and teaching interests include Enlightenment literature and philosophy, the eighteenth-century European novel, the French Revolution, emigration in Revolutionary Europe, pamphlets and polemics, immigration and the Algerian war. Research link Country: France Discipline: Arts & Humanities Departments: Comparative Literature, French Studies Muhanna, Elias Assistant Professor Elias Muhanna is interested in the literature and culture of the Arab world, mainly classical Arabic literature and intellectual history. He has done extensive work on encyclopedism. Research link Countries: Lebanon, Egypt, Syria Discipline: Arts & Humanities Department: Comparative Literature Muller, Jeffrey Professor Jeffrey Muller’s research centers on early modern art of the Low Countries; he is interested in how visual communication worked as part of the Counter Reformation. Currently, he is researching the Jesuit global strategy of accomodation. Research link Countries: Netherlands, Belgium, United Kingdom Discipline: Arts & Humanities Department: History of Art and Architecture Mumford, Jeremy Lecturer Jeremy Mumford’s research focuses on the early colonial Andes and comparative indigenous histories in the New World. He works with Quechua speakers in South America. Research link Country: Peru Discipline: Social Sciences Department: History Mustard, John Professor John Mustard's research focuses on the processes that modify solid surfaces and the spatial and temporal scales that control environmental processes on the Earth. His work studies the interplay between interior and exterior processes by examining the composition and morphology of surfaces, as these surfaces lie at the interface between the solid interior of a planet and the fluid exterior. Research link Country: Brazil Discipline: Physical Sciences Departments: Environmental Studies, Earth, Environmental, and Planetary Sciences Nahme, Paul Assistant Professor Paul Nahme's research interests focus on modern Jewish philosophy and Rabbinic thought, intellectual history, religion, ethics, and politics, and the philosophy and hermeneutics of law. Research link Countries: Germany, Israel, Lithuania Discipline: Arts & Humanities Department: Judaic Studies Narain, Meenakshi Professor Meenakshi Narain's research interests are in experimental high energy physics and her ultimate goal is to illuminate the character of physics at the TeV energy scale. She and her team are working on studying the properties of the Higgs Boson and its implications. Research link Country: Switzerland Discipline: Physical Sciences Department: Physics Nedostup, Rebecca Associate Professor Rebecca Nedostup is interested in the social and cultural impact of modern Chinese political movements; migration within and across borders and the development of communities amid displacement; mobilization and demobilization; and the changing conception and treatment of the dead in the modern era. Research link Countries: China, Taiwan Discipline: Social Sciences Department: History Neil, Christopher Associate Professor Christopher Neill's research examines how changes in land use and other human activities alter the structure of ecosystems. His work investigates: the ecological consequences of deforestation, how deforestation changes the way water and dissolved and particulate materials move from land to water and within channels of streams and rivers, and how forest clearing alters the rates of cycling of soil nutrients and organic matter and the emissions of carbon dioxide and nitrogen oxides from soils to the atmosphere. Research link Countries: Brazil, United States Discipline: Biology & Medicine Department: Ecology and Evolutionary Biology Neretti, Nicola Assistant Professor Nicola Neretti's research involves signal/image processing, and modeling of biological systems. His current focus is the application of high throughput techniques such as RNA-seq to study changes in the transcriptional network caused by genetic and environmental interventions that extend life span in model organisms. His recent work includes the development of computational methods to detect age-associated chromatin changes and activation of transposable elements. Research link Country: Brazil Discipline: Biology & Medicine Department: Molecular Biology Cell Biology and Biochemistry Neumann, Dietrich Professor Dietrich Neumann’s research concentrates mostly on late 19th- and early 20th-century European and American Architecture. He is interested in the entire scope of architectural production and debate, from the minutiae of building technologies to the transatlantic discourse on skyscrapers and urbanism throughout the 20th Century. Research link Countries: Germany, Italy Discipline: Arts & Humanities Departments: History of Art and Architecture, Italian Studies, Urban Studies Newman, Karen Professor Karen Newman writes widely on early modern letters and culture and on Shakespeare and Renaissance drama. Her current research on the reception of Shakespeare in Europe and on cultural translation aims to historicize contemporary claims about the globalization of culture. Research link Countries: United Kingdom, France Discipline: Arts & Humanities Departments: Comparative Literature, English Nieto Hernandez, Pura Senior Lecturer Pura Nieto Hernández teaches a variety of courses both in Greek and in translation. Her primary areas of research are Homer, the history of the Greek language, Greek literature and mythology. Research link Country: Greece Discipline: Arts & Humanities Department: Classics Norets, Andriy Associate Professor Andriy Norets's research interests lie in econometric theory, bayesian nonparametrics and dynamic discrete choice models. His research develops estimation procedures that have properties of both the classical and Bayesian approach to econometrics. His recent work finds properties of econometric data analysis procedures that are useful from both the Bayesian and classical approach. Research link Country: Ukraine Discipline: Social Sciences Department: Economics Nummedal, Tara Associate Professor Tara Nummedal's work examines knowledge of nature – particularly alchemy – and its place in the society and culture of early modern Europe. Research link Countries: Italy, Germany, Czech Republic Discipline: Social Sciences Department: History Nunn, Amy Assistant Professor Research Amy Nunn's research is focused on examining the structural, social and behavioral factors influencing racial disparities in HIV infection in the US. Research link Country: Brazil Discipline: Biology & Medicine Departments: Behavioral and Social Sciences, Medicine Oklot, Michal Assistant Professor Michal Oklot works in Russian and Polish literatures of the 19th and 20th centuries, especially Gogol and his continuators. He has also particular interests in the Slavic history of ideas, Central European Modernism, and literary theory. Research link Countries: Russia, Poland Discipline: Arts & Humanities Department: Slavic Languages Oliver, Graham Professor Graham Oliver is an ancient historian. He studies Greek history, in particular epigraphy – the study of inscriptions, Classical and Hellenistic history, and the ancient economy and society of ancient Greece from the Archaic to Roman eras. Research link Countries: Greece, Germany Discipline: Arts & Humanities Department: Classics Olyan, Saul Professor Saul Olyan’s research focuses on the history, literature and religion of ancient Israel, and the history of biblical interpretation. He has written on aspects of disability, death and the afterlife, social hierarchy, sexuality, purity and impurity, honor and shame, and gender, among other subjects. Research link Country: Israel Discipline: Arts & Humanities Departments: Judaic Studies, Religious Studies Operario, Don Associate Professor Don Operario conducts research on community-based health interventions for HIV/AIDS. His interests include social and psychological determinants of health inequalities, consequences of stigma, and evidence-based practice. Research link Countries: China, South Africa, Kenya, Mexico, Peru Discipline: Social Sciences Department: Behavioral and Social Sciences Ortega, Julio Professor Julio Ortega is currently spearheading the Trans-Atlantic Project at Brown. This is a group that works to advance research in issues related to the new area of "transatlantic studies" based on the exchange between Europe and the Americas. Research link Countries: Spain, Mexico, Venezuela Discipline: Arts & Humanities Department: Hispanic Studies Osayimwese, Itohan Assistant Professor Itohan Osayimwese is an architectural and urban historian. She engages with theories of modernity, postcoloniality, and globalization to analyze German colonial architecture, urban design, and visual culture; modern architecture in Germany; African and African diaspora material cultural histories; and the architecture of development in Africa. Another research interest is the architectural and urban lives of religious cults. Research link Countries: Germany, Nigeria Discipline: Arts & Humanities Department: History of Art and Architecture Padture, Nitin Professor Nitin Padture conducts research on nanomaterials and nanotechnology, and advanced ceramics. His research has been funded by the government of Spain. Research link Country: Spain Discipline: Physical Sciences Department: Engineering Palmore, G Tayhas Professor Tayhas Palmore's research investigates the synthesis of new biocomposites (biocatalysts/conducting polymers/nanofibers) for use in batteries, fuel cells, and biomedical applications. Research link Country: Japan Discipline: Physical Sciences Departments: Chemistry, Engineering Papaioannou, Efstratios Associate Professor Efstratios Papaioannou studies post-classical Greek literary and cultural history, especially late antique and Byzantine writing in its social context. Wider interests are in premodern book and letter-writing cultures, literary aesthetics, and concepts of gender, self, and desire. Research link Country: Greece Discipline: Arts & Humanities Department: Classics Papas, Rebecca Assistant Professor Research Rebecca Papas’ research focuses on cultural adaptation of empirically validated behavioral interventions, clinical trials of intervention to reduce alcohol use and gender health disparities. She also is involved in the International Health Institute and the Brown in Kenya Program. Research link Country: Kenya Discipline: Biology & Medicine Department: Psychiatry and Human Behavior Partridge, Robert Adjunct Associate Professor Robert Partridge is interested in medical counter-bioterrorism, anthrax prophylaxis, as well as substance dependence in elderly patients in emergency departments. Research link Country: Micronesia Discipline: Biology & Medicine Department: Emergency Medicine Pelcovits, Robert Professor Robert Pelcovits conducts research on theoretical liquid crystal physics, including numerical simulations and visualization. He has held visiting positions in Israel, Denmark, and France. Research link Countries: Israel, France, Denmark Discipline: Physical Sciences Department: Physics Perlman, Marc Associate Professor Marc Perlman’s research interests include Indonesian, Irish and Burmese music, ethnomusicology, and music theory. He is currently working on the geographical disciplinary affiliations of traditional Indonesian music. Research link Countries: Indonesia, Myanmar, India, Ireland Discipline: Arts & Humanities Department: Music Perry, Keisha-Khan Assistant Professor Keisha-Khan Perry specializes in the critical study of race, gender, and politics in the Americas with a particular focus on black women's activism, urban geography and questions of citizenship, feminist theories, intellectual history and disciplinary formations, and the interrelationship between scholarship, pedagogy, and political engagement. Research link Countries: Brazil, Jamaica, Belize, Mexico, Argentina Discipline: Social Sciences Department: Africana Studies Perry, Samuel Assistant Professor Samuel Perry’s research examines the revolutionary cultures of 20th-century Japan and Korea, focusing on the proletarian avant-garde, children's literature and fiction about and by Koreans. Research link Countries: Japan, Korea Discipline: Arts & Humanities Department: East Asian Studies Peti, Wolfgang Associate Professor Wolfgang Peti's research focuses on the structural biology of protein phosphatases and their role in diabetes, cancer and neurological diseases. His research examines the molecular mechanism that regulates signalling enzymes, with a focus on ser/thr protein phosphatases (PP1, PP2B), tyr phosphatases and ser/thr kinases, especially MAP Kinases. His current work studies the formation of bacterial biofilms. Research link Countries: Germany, Brazil Discipline: Biology & Medicine Department: Chemistry Pitt, Mark Professor Research Mark Pitt researches economic demography, resource allocation, fertility, and child mortality and health. Research link Country: Bangladesh Discipline: Social Sciences Department: Population Studies Pollock, Ethan Associate Professor Ethan Pollock has examined previously inaccessible Soviet archives to analyze the intersection of political power, official ideology, and scientific knowledge in the Soviet Union. His current research on the Russian bathhouse – or bania – explores questions of public and private space, sexuality, hygiene, and the body in the context of social and political upheaval and change. Research link Country: Russia Discipline: Social Sciences Department: History Poore, Carol Professor Emerita Carol Poore conducts research on 20th-century German literature and culture, literature and history, and disability studies. Research link Country: Germany Discipline: Social Sciences Department: German Studies Porder, Stephen Associate Professor Stephen Porder’s research is focused on the interdisciplinary investigation of terrestrial ecosystems, combining ecology, biogeochemistry, and geology to ask how our living planet works, what humans are doing to alter those functions, and what the consequences will be for us, and for the ecosystems upon which we depend. Research link Countries: Venezuela, Brazil, Costa Rica Discipline: Biology & Medicine Departments: Ecology and Evolutionary Biology, Environmental Change Initiative Powers, Thomas Professor Thomas Powers’ research focuses on molecular and cellular biomechanics, the physics of soft matter, and non-linear dynamics. Research link Countries: Singapore, Sweden Discipline: Physical Sciences Department: Engineering Proano, Lawrence Clinical Associate Professor Lawence Proano’s research focuses on travel, and international and emergency medicine. He has also published on tube thorascostomy. Research link Country: Liberia Discipline: Biology & Medicine Department: Emergency Medicine Pucci, Joseph Associate Professor Joseph Pucci has research interests in late antiquity, late Latin, medieval Latin, and comparative literary history with a focus on literary allusion and poetic genres. He is also interested in biography as a literary form (and as practitioner) and in literature and the American presidency. Research link Country: Italy Discipline: Arts & Humanities Department: Classics Putterman, Louis Professor Louis Putterman’s recent research topics include: the role of social preferences, norms, communication and punishment in social dilemmas; effects of early history on recent levels of development and rates of growth; income distribution; and emergence, roles and accountability of states. Research link Countries: China, Tanzania Discipline: Social Sciences Department: Economics Qian, Zhenchao Professor Zhenchao Qian's current research focuses on changing patterns of marriage, cohabitation, and assortative mating and how the patterns vary by gender, race/ethnicity, nativity status, and educational attainment. Research link Country: China Discipline: Social Sciences Department: Sociology Rabb, Melinda Professor Melinda Rabb has research interests in literature and culture of the 'long' 18th century, that is, from the time of the English Civil Wars through the career of Jane Austen. Research link Country: United Kingdom Discipline: Arts & Humanities Department: English Rambuss, Richard Professor Richard Rambuss's field is 16th- and 17th-century English literature and culture. He is mostly interested in Milton, Shakespeare, Spenser, and the metaphysical poets (especially Donne, Herbert, and Crashaw); devotional texts and images; and the Baroque. Research link Country: United Kingdom Discipline: Arts & Humanities Department: English Ramratnam, Bharat Associate Professor Ramratnam’s focus is on defining the key cellular components that impact the replication of viruses such as HIV-1, herpes simplex virus (HSV) one and two, influenza, and hepatitis B/C. Research link Countries: Cambodia, Vietnam Discipline: Biology & Medicine Department: Medicine Ravillon, Stephanie Lecturer Stephanie Ravillon teaches French language and culture. She has been engaged in research that examines questions of identity and self in the post-colonial world. Since 2009, she has been involved with the Research Center on Investment and International Trade ("Centre de Recherche sur le droit des investissements et des marchés internationaux", CREDIMI, University of Burgundy, France), which is affiliated with the French National Center for Scientific Research (CNRS), and has translated their annual Chronicle of the Informal Sources of International Business Law. Research link Country: France Discipline: Arts & Humanities Department: French Studies Ravindranathan, Thangam Associate Professor Thangam Ravindranathan’s research interests are 20th- and 21st-century literature and criticism/theory; poetry; narratives of travel; the contemporary novel; the question of the animal; (post-war) representations of war. Her current book project, Animals Passing, focuses on animals in contemporary literary and critical thought. Research link Country: France Discipline: Arts & Humanities Department: French Studies Readey, Jonathan Lecturer Jonathan Readey is interested in nonfiction writing and the research essay; creative nonfiction; journalism; business and technical writing; 20th-century and contemporary British commonwealth literature, especially the novel; Anglophone, World English, and transatlantic literature; postcolonial and colonial literature; Postmodernism and Modernism; creative writing, especially fiction. Research link Country: United Kingdom Discipline: Arts & Humanities Department: English Redfield, Marc Professor Marc Redfield studies British, American, French and German literature and literary theory of the 18th through 20th centuries, with a particular focus on romanticism and on the history, philosophy, and politics of post-romantic aesthetics. Research link Countries: France, Germany, United Kingdom Discipline: Arts & Humanities Departments: Comparative Literature, English Reed, Joseph Professor Joseph Reed is a scholar of Ancient Greek and Roman literature and culture, and has worked especially on Hellenistic and Augustan poetry. Research link Countries: Greece, Italy Discipline: Arts & Humanities Department: Classics Reginster, Bernard Professor Bernard Reginster's research has focused mostly on issues in ethics, metaethics, and moral psychology in 19th-century German philosophy. Research link Country: Germany Discipline: Arts & Humanities Department: Philosophy Reichman, Ravit Associate Professor Ravit Reichman conducts research on the 20th-century British novel; law and literature; modernism; literary theory; psychoanalysis; literature and the emotions; narrative and memory; and literary responses to war. Research link Country: United Kingdom Discipline: Arts & Humanities Department: English Remensnyder, Amy Associate Professor Amy Remensnyder's research focuses on the cultural and religious history of medieval Europe. She is currently working on three book projects, two of which focus on relations between Muslims and Christians in the medieval and early modern Mediterranean, and the third which will be a synthetic history of captivity around the world. Research link Countries: France, Mexico, Spain, Italy Discipline: Social Sciences Department: History Rich, Jeremy Assistant Professor Jeremy Rich’s work focuses on the microbial aspects of the nitrogen cycle. He has quantified rates of these processes in the Chesapeake Bay, Eastern Tropical South Pacific (Peru) and Arabian Sea. Research link Countries: Peru, Antarctica Discipline: Biology & Medicine Department: Ecology and Evolutionary Biology Rich, Josiah Professor Josiah Rich has a number of research interests including: the overlap between infectious diseases and addiction; incarcerated populations and public health opportunities in the criminal justice system; HIV/AIDS, Hepatitis B and C, and sexually transmitted diseases; and global health. Research link Country: Russia Discipline: Biology & Medicine Departments: Epidemiology, Medicine Richards, Joan Professor Joan Richards is studying views of rationality as defined and lived in several generations of an English family that includes as major characters: the mathematician, Augustus De Morgan; his spiritualist wife, Sophia De Morgan; and Sophia's father, the radical Unitarian William Frend. Research link Country: United Kingdom Discipline: Social Sciences Department: History Richardson, Peter Professor Peter Richardson is currently working on a study of the left anterior descending epicardial arteries in pigs which have been fed atherogenic diets. Research link Country: United Kingdom Discipline: Physical Sciences Department: Engineering Richter, Gerhard Professor Gerhard Richter's research focuses on aesthetic theory and European critical thought since Kant; modern German literature and culture; the Frankfurt School; the intersections of literary writing and philosophy; contemporary French thought; questions of translation; and the complexities of intellectual and cultural inheritance. Research link Countries: Germany, France Discipline: Arts & Humanities Departments: Comparative Literature, German Studies Riva, Massimo Professor Massimo Riva's research focuses on the role of emerging technologies in the humanities. His project, Garibaldi and the Risorgimento, centered on the Garibaldi panorama, was recently featured in the Italian pavilion in Brazil, the British Library in London, and museums and libraries in Italy. Research link Countries: Brazil, United Kingdom, Italy Discipline: Arts & Humanities Department: Italian Studies Roberts, J Timmons Professor J Timmons Roberts' current research focuses on climate change and international development. It has three threads: 1. How shifting relations between the global North and South affect the United Nations negotiations on climate change; 2. The role of foreign aid in the negotiations and in assisting developing countries cope with climate impacts and greening their economies; and 3. What social factors explain national "pathways" (being relatively high or low carbon emitters for their level of human development). Research link Country: Brazil Discipline: Social Sciences Departments: Environmental Studies, Sociology Rockney, Randy Professor Randy Rockney's research includes family medicine, pediatric incontinence disorders, and disease in developing countries. Research link Countries: Cambodia, Kenya Discipline: Biology & Medicine Departments: Pediatrics, Family Medicine Rodriguez, Daniel Assistant Professor Daniel Rodriguez's research focuses on the history of public health, medicine, and disease in Latin America and the Caribbean. His other teaching and research interests include the history of welfare and philanthropy, environmental history, and the history of gender and sexuality in Latin America and the Caribbean. Research link Country: Cuba Discipline: Social Sciences Department: History Rojanski, Rachel Senior Lecturer Rachel Rojanski is interested in Yiddish language and culture and the history of the State of Israel. Research link Country: Israel Discipline: Arts & Humanities Departments: History, Judaic Studies Rojas Silva, Felipe Assistant Professor Felipe Rojas Silva's research focuses on the Eastern Mediterranean during the classical period. His recent work examines how people in Greek and Roman Anatolia used Bronze and Iron Age material culture to substantiate narratives about local and universal history. He is currently working on a book about how people in the past imagined their own past, and is interested in the impact, relevance, and uses of the classics and the ancient world in Brazil and Latin America. Research link Countries: Turkey, Greece, Jordan, Brazil Discipline: Arts & Humanities Departments: Archaeology and the Ancient World, Egyptology and Ancient Western Asian Studies Rosen, Rochelle Assistant Professor Research Rochelle Rosen is a medical anthropologist with primary research interests focused in HIV-prevention in women via vaginal microbicide acceptability, preventative health care issues in American Samoa, and translational health research in behavioral medicine. Research link Country: American Samoa Discipline: Social Sciences Department: Behavioral and Social Sciences Roth, Harold Professor Harold Roth is a specialist in Classical Chinese Religious Thought, Classical Daoism, the Comparative Study of Mysticism and a pioneer of the academic field of Contemplative Studies. Research link Country: China Discipline: Arts & Humanities Departments: East Asian Studies, Religious Studies Rothschild, Lynn Adjunct Professor Lynn Rothschild is currently studying photosynthesis and DNA damage and repair in lab and field sites with collaborators in Australia, Kenya, Baja and the Andes. Research link Countries: Australia, Kenya, Mexico Discipline: Biology & Medicine Department: Molecular Biology Cell Biology and Biochemistry Rovan, Joseph Professor Joseph Rovan is currently researching human-computer interface design and interactive opera and gestural control based on the work of French physiologist Etienne-Julers Marey. Research link Country: France Discipline: Arts & Humanities Department: Music Rueschemeyer, Marilyn Adjunct Professor Marilyn Rueschemeyer specializes in communist and postcommunist societies, and for several years has been the representative of the American Sociological Association to the Board of the American Association for the Advancement of Slavic Studies, the organization that brings together scholars from all disciplines working in postcommunist societies. Specifically, Rueschemeyer works extensively in urban sociology, gender studies, and the sociology of art in communist and postcommunist societies. Research link Countries: Germany, Russia Discipline: Social Sciences Department: International Studies Russell, James Associate Professor James Russell seeks to understand the patterns and causes of natural climate variability using paleoclimate records. He is particularly interested in the climate history of the tropics, including intertropical Africa and the El Niño Southern Oscillation System. Research link Countries: Tanzania, Congo, Burundi, Zambia, Uganda, Indonesia, Ghana Discipline: Physical Sciences Department: Geological Sciences Rutherford, Malcolm Professor Malcolm Rutherford’s research seeks to establish mineral stabilities and compositions of calc-alkaline magmas as a function of the fugacities of the volatile species, temperature, and the total pressure. Research link Country: Philippines Discipline: Life Sciences Department: Geological Sciences Rutz, Matthew Assistant Professor Matthew Rutz studies the languages and cultures of ancient Mesopotamia through the analysis of texts and documents from the second millenium BCE and the Late Bronze Age. Research link Countries: Iraq, Syria, Turkey Discipline: Arts & Humanities Department: Egyptology and Ancient Western Asian Studies Saal, Alberto Associate Professor Alberto Saal conducts research on the origin, scale, composition and evolution of the heterogeneity in the Earth's and Moon's mantle using isotope, major, trace and volatile element geochemistry. Research link Countries: Argentina, Chile, Japan, France, Taiwan, Ecuador Discipline: Life Sciences Departments: Earth, Environmental, and Planetary Sciences Sacks, Kenneth Professor Kenneth Sacks’ area of specialty is Greek intellectual history, which led him to study American Transcendentalism. Research link Country: Greece Discipline: Social Sciences Departments: Classics, History Safier, Neil Associate Professor Neil Safier researches 18th-century European empires and their overseas territories, especially the Andes, the Amazon River area, and Brazil. Research link Countries: France, Ecuador, Brazil Discipline: Social Sciences Department: History Saint-Amand, Pierre Professor Pierre Saint-Amand has research interests in 18th-century literature, especially the libertine novel, the philosophy of the Enlightenment, the French Revolution, and literary criticism and theory. Research link Country: France Discipline: Arts & Humanities Departments: Comparative Literature, French Studies Sandstede, Bjorn Professor and Chair Bjorn Sandstede's research focuses on the formation and the dynamics of patterns and nonlinear waves. His recent projects include the nonlinear stability of coherent structures, usually employing a range of analytical techniques, supplemented by numerical computations. He also works on applications in biology, climate, data assimilation, and traffic flow and is a coordinator of a partnership program between Brown University and the Instituto Nacional de Matemática Pura e Aplicada (IMPA), a leading mathematics research institute in Rio de Janeiro, Brazil, to promote exchanges, conferences, and research collaborations in the mathematical sciences. Research link Countries: Brazil, United Kingdom Discipline: Physical Sciences Department: Applied Mathematics Satlow, Michael Professor Michael Satlow is engaged in two major research projects: a synthetic Jewish history of the Second Temple period (ca. 520 BCE - 70 CE) and a study of a Jewish piety in late antiquity. The latter especially dovetails with his interest in inscriptions from Israel/Palestine, for which he is developing a digital database. Research link Countries: Israel, Palestinian Territories Discipline: Arts & Humanities Departments: Judaic Studies, Religious Studies Sautmann, Anja Assistant Professor Anja Sautmann's research interests cover a range of topics in microeconomics and development economics. She has studied the "inflation" of dowry payments and the connection with the increase in population growth in India, as well as the role of age preferences for marriage age patterns. Research link Country: India Discipline: Social Sciences Department: Economics Saval, Peter Assistant Professor Peter Saval studies the classical tradition in Renaissance literature, with particular emphasis on Renaissance Platonism. He is also interested generally in the relationship between early modern literature and philosophy. Research link Countries: United Kingdom, Italy, Greece Discipline: Arts & Humanities Department: Comparative Literature Sawada, Janine Professor Janine Sawada specializes in the religious and intellectual history of early modern Japan. She is currently studying the evolution in the seventeenth and eighteenth centuries of ideas and practices related to the worship of Mt. Fuji. Research link Country: Japan Discipline: Arts & Humanities Departments: East Asian Studies, Religious Studies Sax, Dov Associate Professor Dov Sax conducts research on how species invasions and climate change impact native species and ecosystems. He is particularly interested in understanding when species extinctions are likely and what strategies we can take to prevent them from occurring. Research link Countries: Greece, Spain Discipline: Biology & Medicine Departments: Ecology and Evolutionary Biology, Environmental Studies Scafuro, Adele Professor Adele Scafuro is broadly interested in Greek literature and history, especially in the intersections of law, civic institutions, social life, and performance. Research link Country: Greece Discipline: Arts & Humanities Department: Classics Schechter, Joshua Associate Professor Joshua Schechter’s current research focuses on explaining how it is we have a priori knowledge - knowledge that is independent of the content of our experience of the world around us. Research link Country: Israel Discipline: Arts & Humanities Department: Philosophy Scherer, Andrew Assistant Professor Andrew Scherer is an anthropological archaeologist and biological anthropologist with a geographic focus in Mesoamerica (Maya). He co-directs a multi-national, interdisciplinary research project that is exploring Classic Maya polities along the Usumacinta River in Guatemala and Mexico. Scherer's research interests include bioarchaeology, mortuary archaeology, warfare and violence, political organization, diet and subsistence, and landscape archaeology. Research link Countries: Mexico, Guatemala Discipline: Social Sciences Department: Anthropology Schestag, Thomas Associate Professor Thomas Schestag's research interests include the relation between literature and philology; theories of names and naming; the intersection of poetry, philosophy, and political theory; the theory and practice of translation; and the question of a sense for language that precedes the preconceptual notion of a linguistic common sense. Research link Countries: Germany, France Discipline: Arts & Humanities Department: German Studies Schloss, Karen Assistant Professor Research Karen Schloss studies aesthetics, especially color aesthetics. She has also studied cross-cultural color preferences, mainly comparatively. Research link Countries: Mexico, Japan Discipline: Life Sciences Department: Cognitive Linguistic and Psychological Sciences Schrank, Andrew Professor Andrew Schrank's research examines the social underpinnings of economic behavior, with a focus on the garment industry. His current work studies the reconciliation between the enforcement of international labor standards with an industrial policy that will allow one to stay competitive in an international labor market. Research link Countries: Dominican Rep., Chile Discipline: Social Sciences Departments: International Studies, Sociology Schuhmacher, Nidia Senior Lecturer Nidia Schuhmacher’s areas of interest include language pedagogy, the use of technology in language instruction, second language acquisition, the teaching of writing and culture, and translation. She has sponsored Group Independent Study Projects in Medical Spanish and is the Faculty Adviser for Medical Spanish, an elective course offered by the Brown Alpert Medical School. Research link Country: Spain Discipline: Arts & Humanities Department: Hispanic Studies Schultz, Gretchen Associate Professor Gretchen Schultz’s research focuses on 19th-century French literature and culture, and gender and sexuality studies. She has also written on French poetry and poetics in relation to gender and subjectivity. Research link Country: France Discipline: Arts & Humanities Department: French Studies Scott-Sheldon, Lori Assistant Professor Research Lori Scott-Sheldon’s research explores evaluation of the conditions under which people adopt and continue risky behavior, health messages and behavior change, and social cognitive processes related to health behavior. Research link Country: South Africa Discipline: Biology & Medicine Department: Psychiatry and Human Behavior Seifert, Lewis Professor Lewis Seifert's primary interests encompass two broad areas: 17th-century French culture and folk- and fairy-tale narratives. He has a particular focus on questions of gender and sexuality, both theoretically and historically; but he has also explored problems of early modern authorship, political discourse, and friendship. Research link Country: France Discipline: Arts & Humanities Department: French Studies Serrano, Roberto Professor Roberto Serrano’s research interests include economic theory and game theory, welfare economics and social choice theory. He has researched with Spanish, German, and Israeli foundations. Research link Countries: Spain, Germany, Israel Discipline: Social Sciences Department: Economics Serre, Thomas Assistant Professor Thomas Serre's research focuses on understanding the brain mechanisms underlying the recognition of objects and complex visual scenes using a combination of behavioral, imaging and physiological techniques. Research link Countries: Italy, France Discipline: Life Sciences Department: Cognitive Linguistic and Psychological Sciences Sheinkopf, Stephen Assistant Professor Research Stephen Sheinkopf’s research focuses the early identification of autism, and on the development of social abilities and regulatory capacity in young children with autism, as well as children at risk for poor social developmental outcomes. Research link Country: Canada Discipline: Biology & Medicine Departments: Pediatrics, Psychiatry and Human Behavior Sheldon, Brian Professor Brian Sheldon's current research is focused on understanding stress evolution and mechanical degradation in electrodes for Li ion batteries, compositionally induced stresses due to oxidation-reduction in non-stoichiometric oxides such as ceria, and ceramic composite coatings reinforced with nanotubes and nanofibers. He was recently Invited Visiting Professor at the Institut National Polytechnique de Toulouse. Research link Country: France Discipline: Physical Sciences Department: Engineering Shibusawa, Naoko Associate Professor Naoko Shibusawa studies U.S. empire and political culture, as well as transnational Asian-American history. Research link Country: Japan Discipline: Social Sciences Departments: American Studies, History Shih, Elena Assistant Professor Elena Shih is currently working on her first book manuscript, adapted from her dissertation, "Freedom Markets: Moral and Political Economies of the Human Trafficking Movement in China, Thailand, and the U.S.," a multi-sited and global ethnography based off 40 months of fieldwork on efforts to combat human trafficking in Beijing, Bangkok, and Los Angeles. Drawing on fieldwork as a participant action researcher with faith-based and secular social movement organizations--ranging from grassroots evangelical Christian missionary projects, to sex worker rights cooperatives, to the United Nations--her dissertation explores the mobilization of rights and morality in between the state and the market in the contemporary movement against human trafficking. Research link Countries: China, Thailand Discipline: Social Sciences Department: American Studies Short, Susan Professor Susan Short is a sociologist and demographer. Her research focuses on gender, reproductive health, child development, work-family issues, and methods of social research. She addresses these topics in the U.S., China, and southern Africa. Research link Countries: China, Lesotho, South Africa, United States Discipline: Social Sciences Department: Sociology Silver, Hilary Professor Hilary Silver's research interests include urban poverty, housing and homelessness, neighborhood change, unemployment, and social policies in Western Europe. Research link Country: Germany Discipline: Social Sciences Departments: Sociology, Urban Studies Simas-Almeida, Leonor Senior Lecturer Leonor Simas-Almeida's teaching and research cover different periods and different genres of Portuguese literature. However, her work is particularly centered on narrative fiction and, lately, it has been reflecting a strong interest in a poetics of reading rooted in affect (although not excluding other compatible approaches), which inform all of her most recently published papers. Research link Country: Portugal Discipline: Arts & Humanities Department: Portuguese and Brazilian Studies Simmons, Andrea Professor Andrea Simmons’ research studies how the nervous system develops, matures, and reorganizes in response to damage, specifically the impact of anthropogenic noise and climate change on perception. Research link Country: Japan Discipline: Life Sciences Departments: Neuroscience, Cognitive Linguistic and Psychological Sciences Simmons, William Professor William Simmons studies social/cultural anthropology, religion, myth, and ritual–focusing on West Africa and Native America. Research link Country: Senegal Discipline: Social Sciences Department: Anthropology Singh, Bhrigupati Assistant Professor Bhrigupati Singh's research examines the human experience, ranging from the lives of individuals to global culture, media, philosophy and religion. His ethnographic work studies the effect of minor dietary shifts on water shortages, forms of intercaste and class antagonism, dynamism of spiritual traditions, and the paradox of the state as both a source of violence and provider of welfare. Parallel to his work, Singh examines the intellectual and philosophical frameworks in which his research occurs. Research link Country: India Discipline: Social Sciences Department: Anthropology Singh , Prerna Assistant Professor Prerna Singh's research focuses on issues of development, governance, nationalism, and ethnic politics in South Asia and beyond. Her current work examines the differences in social welfare programs that exist between places that are otherwise similar, ethnographically, economically, or politically. Research link Country: India Discipline: Social Sciences Departments: International Studies, Political Science Sloman, Steven Professor Steven Sloman studies how people think in the face of uncertainty. With the goal of understanding the flexibility of cognition - how people are able to think effectively in entirely new situations with little prior knowledge. Research link Countries: Germany, United Kingdom Discipline: Life Sciences Department: Cognitive Linguistic and Psychological Sciences Smith, Daniel Professor Daniel Smith's research is focused on medical and demographic anthropology in sub-Saharan Africa and includes work on HIV/AIDS, reproductive health and behavior, adolescent sexuality, marriage, kinship, and rural-urban migration. His work on political culture in Nigeria includes studies of patron-clientism, Pentecostal Christianity, vigilantism, and corruption. Research link Country: Nigeria Discipline: Social Sciences Department: Anthropology Smith, Kerry Associate Professor Kerry Smith research explores the social and cultural histories of the Great Kanto Earthquake of 1923, an event that devastated most of present-day Tokyo and many of the surrounding communities. Research link Country: Japan Discipline: Social Sciences Department: History Smith, Victoria Senior Lecturer Victoria Smith is interested in foreign language teaching and contemplative studies. Research link Country: Spain Discipline: Arts & Humanities Department: Hispanic Studies Smulyan, Susan Professor Susan Smulyan researches popular culture, transnationalism, the history of the radio, and American-Japanese relations. Research link Countries: Japan, Australia Discipline: Social Sciences Department: American Studies Sng, Zachary Associate Professor Zachary Sng conducts research on the literature and philosophy of Britain and Germany around the 18th century, covering the intellectual and literary movements of the Enlightenment and Romanticism. Research link Countries: United Kingdom, Germany Discipline: Arts & Humanities Departments: Comparative Literature, German Studies Snyder, Richard Professor Richard Snyder's research and teaching focus on comparative politics, with an emphasis on the political economy of development, political regimes, and Latin American politics. Research link Countries: Mexico, Brazil Discipline: Social Sciences Department: Political Science Sobel, David Professor David Sobel studies how children represent and learn new pieces of causal knowledge, how children conceptualize pretending and fictional worlds, and how children learn in informal settings. Research link Country: United Kingdom Discipline: Life Sciences Department: Cognitive Linguistic and Psychological Sciences Sobral, Patricia Senior Lecturer Patricia Sobral's teaching and research interests include: intersection of the arts and second language acquisition; Brazilian literature of the 20th century; contemporary Brazilian cinema; and comparative literature, particularly texts of immigration and exile. Research link Country: Brazil Discipline: Arts & Humanities Department: Portuguese and Brazilian Studies Sobral, Silvia Senior Lecturer Silvia Sobral teaches courses including Basic and Advanced Spanish as well as Theory and Methods of Foreign Language Teaching. Research link Country: Spain Discipline: Arts & Humanities Department: Hispanic Studies Sokolosky, Jane Senior Lecturer Jane Sokolosky’s research focuses on language pedagogy; language learning and technology; writing in the language curriculum; turn-of-the-century Austrian literature. Research link Countries: Austria, Germany Discipline: Arts & Humanities Department: German Studies Song, Joo-Hyun Assistant Professor Joo-Hyun Song is interested in understanding behavioral and underlying neural mechanisms involved in integrating higher-order cognitive processes and visually-guided actions in real-life situations. Research link Country: Canada Discipline: Life Sciences Department: Cognitive Linguistic and Psychological Sciences Spillane, Nichea Assistant Professor Research Nichea Spillane's research focuses on risk and protective factors for substance abuse in North American indigenous populations. Research link Country: Canada Discipline: Social Sciences Department: Behavioral and Social Sciences Stallings, Barbara Professor Research Barbara Stallings' research focuses on the political economy of development, with particular reference to three topics: (1) macroeconomic policy and structural reforms and their impact on growth, employment creation, and income distribution; (2) finance for development, including domestic banks, capital markets, and international finance; and (3) the international political economy and its effect on the development process. The main geographic focus of her research has been on Latin America and East Asia. Research link Countries: Chile, Bolivia, Japan, Korea Discipline: Social Sciences Department: International Studies Stanley, Lawrence Senior Lecturer Lawrence Stanley researches rhetorical theory and its relevance to composition theory and practice; narrative theory, particularly in relation to creative nonfiction and fiction; British Romantics and Modernist fiction. Currently, his research focuses on the nature of aesthetic cognition. Research link Country: United Kingdom Discipline: Arts & Humanities Department: English Steele, John Professor John Steele specializes in the history of astronomy, specifically Babylonian astronomy. Research link Countries: Iraq, Syria, Turkey Discipline: Arts & Humanities Department: Egyptology and Ancient Western Asian Studies Stein, Derek Associate Professor Derek Stein's research focuses on bio-nanoscience and single-molecule biophysics. His research develops and implements nanostructures to study the structure and behavior of individual biological molecules, the fundamental building blocks of life. His current project studies the unique fluidic properties of the inorganic nanotubes he synthesizes. He collaborates with scholars from the University of Paraíba Valley, Brazil, to study the unique fluidic properties of the inorganic nanotubes they synthesize. Research link Country: Brazil Discipline: Physical Sciences Department: Physics Stein, Michael Professor Michael Stein focuses on HIV prevention and drug use. He collaborates with initiatives in the Dominican Republic and Uganda. Research link Countries: Dominican Rep., Uganda Discipline: Biology & Medicine Departments: Medicine, Health Services Policy and Practice Steinberg, Michael Professor Michael Steinberg is currently researching the cultural history of modern Germany and Austria with regard to the German Jewish intellectual history and cultural history of music. Research link Countries: Germany, Austria Discipline: Arts & Humanities Departments: History, Music Steinfeld, Edward Professor Edward Steinfeld's research focuses on the political economy of contemporary China, global production and innovation, and energy. Research link Country: China Discipline: Social Sciences Department: Political Science Stewart-Steinberg, Suzanne Professor Suzanne Stewart-Steinberg works on Italian and German literature of the 19th and 20th centuries, and on psychoananlysis and literary and cultural theory with particular interests in the construction of gender. Research link Countries: Italy, Germany Discipline: Arts & Humanities Department: Italian Studies Straughn, Ian Assistant Professor Ian Straughn's research and teaching interests focus on the study of the archaeology of the Muslim World. More specifically, his work concentrates on understanding how Muslim societies have been shaped by the landscapes which they have constructed and conceived and by their relationship to the material world. Research link Country: Egypt Discipline: Social Sciences Department: Anthropology Strauss, Walter Professor Walter Strauss’ research is devoted to understanding the fundamental underlying features of nonlinear waves and their relationships to physical phenomena. Research link Countries: Ireland, France, China Discipline: Physical Sciences Department: Mathematics Sullivan, Patrick Associate Professor Patrick Sullivan spent time at Tenwek Hospital in Kenya performing surgery and teaching physicians and staff about specialized medical care for children and adults. Research link Countries: Kenya, Tanzania, India Discipline: Biology & Medicine Department: Surgery Sullivan, Stephen Assistant Professor Stephen Sullivan is interested in pediatric plastic surgery, cleft lip and palate, and craniofacial plastic surgery. Research link Country: Haiti Discipline: Biology & Medicine Departments: Pediatrics, Surgery Sun, Shouheng Professor Shouheng Sun's research investigates nanomaterials, with a focus on the chemical synthesis and self-assembly of nanoparticles and the construction and elaboration of functional nanoparticles and their assemblies for applications in biomedicine, catalysis, and magnetic energy storage. Research link Country: Brazil Discipline: Physical Sciences Departments: Chemistry, Engineering Suner, Selim Professor Selim Suner studies neural control of movement, applications of biomedical enginnering to diagnostic and therapetic advances in medicine, disaster and mass gathering medicine, CO toxicity, and cortical injury. He has served during multiple disaster deployments. Research link Country: Turkey Discipline: Biology & Medicine Department: Emergency Medicine Sung, James Professor James Sung is interested in tumor pathology within the areas of gynecological pathology, breast pathology, and cytopathology. Research link Countries: Taiwan, China Discipline: Biology & Medicine Department: Pathology and Laboratory Medicine Suuberg, Eric Professor Eric Suuberg’s research interests focus on energy and environmental engineering. He also co-founded and co-directs the master's Program in Innovation Management and Entrepreneurship (PRIME). Research link Countries: Estonia, Australia, Latvia, China Discipline: Physical Sciences Department: Engineering Tajima, Hiroshi Lecturer Hiroshi Tajima teaches Japanese at Brown. Research link Country: Japan Discipline: Arts & Humanities Department: East Asian Studies Tamassia, Roberto Professor Roberto Tamassia researches information security, cryptography, algorithms, and computational geometry. He serves regularly on program committees of international conferences. Research link Country: Italy Discipline: Physical Sciences Department: Computer Science Tan, Chung-I Professor Chung-I Tan's research interest is in theoretical particle physics, which deals with the fundamental understanding of the origin of forces and particles. Research link Countries: Switzerland, Japan Discipline: Physical Sciences Department: Physics Tarentino, Leigh Assistant Professor Leigh Tarentino is a visual artist who makes paintings, works on paper and digital prints constructed from photographs of the built landscape. Her work has been exhibited in New York, London, Seoul, Moscow and London. Research link Countries: Korea, Russia, United Kingdom Discipline: Arts & Humanities Department: Visual Art Targan, David Adjunct Associate Professor David Targan's scientific research area is astrophysics, though his primary areas of interest include science communication, STEAM (Science, Technology, Art and Mathematics), science education, and program assessment. He is interested in international science programs, and helping to connect students and faculty to research and other scholarly activities across political boundaries. He serves as Associate Dean for Science Programs, Director of the Science Center and Director of the Ladd Observatory, and Campus Representative, for the Brazil Scientific Mobility Program (Ciência sem Fronteiras – CsF). Research link Country: Brazil Discipline: Physical Sciences Department: Physics Tashima, Karen Professor Karen Tashima is the Director of HIV Clinical Studies and Clinical Research Site Leader of the AIDS Clinical Trials Unit at The Miriam Hospital. Tashima is the study chair of an ACTG study evaluating the effectiveness of a new strategy to treat HIV-infected persons with drug resistant virus. She is a principal investigator for studies of new medications for hepatitis C infection. She assisted in the establishment of an ACTG clinical trials site in Chennai, India at YRG Care. Research link Country: India Discipline: Biology & Medicine Department: Medicine Taubin, Gabriel Associate Professor Gabriel Taubin's research centers on the intersection of Applied Computational Geometry, Computer Graphics, Geometric Modeling, 3D Photography, and Computer Vision. His main area of research has been the development of efficient, simple, and mathematically sound algorithms to operate on 3D objects represented as polygonal meshes, with an emphasis on technologies to enable the use of 3D models for web-based applications. More recent research initiatives are related to visual sensor networks, real-time distributed audio/visual signal processing algorithms, and applications. Research link Country: Brazil Discipline: Physical Sciences Departments: Computer Science, Engineering Taylor, Helena Assistant Professor Helena Taylor is co-director of the craniofacial program at Hasbro Children's Hospital and Rhode Island Hospital. She has a broad plastic surgery practice, with a special focus on pediatric plastic surgery, and in particular Craniosynostosis. Her research is focused on evaluation of craniofacial diagnoses and outcomes, often using three-dimensional photogrammetry. Research link Country: Haiti Discipline: Biology & Medicine Departments: Pediatrics, Surgery Taylor, Julie Professor Julie Taylor serves as the Director of Clinical Curriculum at the Alpert Medical School's Department of Family Medicine and offers a 3-week independent study in Spain. Research link Country: Spain Discipline: Biology & Medicine Department: Family Medicine Teller, Adam Associate Professor Adam Teller is an early modern historian, specializing in the history of the Jews in the Polish-Lithuanian Commonwealth. He focuses on the ways in which they became an integral part of society there and the tensions this aroused. Research link Countries: Poland, Lithuania Discipline: Arts & Humanities Departments: History, Judaic Studies Thomas, Sarah Assistant Professor Sarah Thomas's work primarily focuses on the cultural production of contemporary Spain as well as in post-dictatorship societies in the Spanish-speaking world. She has a secondary interest in Latin American literature and film of the same period, and the transatlantic dialogues that emerge between cultures in the Spanish-speaking world. Research link Countries: Spain, Argentina, Chile Discipline: Arts & Humanities Department: Hispanic Studies Tseng, Hsin-I Lecturer Hsin-I Tseng teaches Chinese at Brown. Research link Countries: China, Taiwan Discipline: Arts & Humanities Department: East Asian Studies Tucker, Christopher Assistant Professor Christopher Tucker’s research centers on sound and society, specifically popular music in the Andes and Brazil as well as cultural and international influences. His current work is focused on transnational circulation of Andean indigenous music and Peruvian indigeneity as well as Brazilian choro music in the late 19th century. Research link Countries: Brazil, Peru Discipline: Arts & Humanities Department: Music Turner, Matthew Professor Matthew Turner's research covers the microeconomics of urban and environmental policy, with a focus on land conservation, infrastructure policy, and urban sprawl. His current work examines how subway systems affect urban growth. Research link Countries: China, Iceland, Canada Discipline: Social Sciences Department: Economics Vaishnava, Shipra Assistant Professor Shipra Vaishnava's research focuses on the interactions between microbes and the host at the molecular level that ensures this host-microbe mutualism. Her work uses a broad array of genetic, cell biological and biochemical approaches to explore the complex interactions between intestinal bacteria and the immune system. Research link Country: India Discipline: Life Sciences Department: Molecular Microbiology and Immunology Valente, Luiz Professor Luiz Valente’s research interests include: Brazilian narrative of the 19th and 20th centuries; the relationship between fiction and history; the construction of national identity and the representation of the nation; and Brazilian poetry since 1945. Research link Country: Brazil Discipline: Arts & Humanities Departments: Comparative Literature, Portuguese and Brazilian Studies Van Dommelen, Peter Professor Peter Van Dommelen's research concentrates on later Mediterranean prehistory and Classical Antiquity throughout the first millennium BCE. Rural landscapes, colonialism and connectivity represent key themes of his research. Research link Countries: Italy, Spain Discipline: Arts & Humanities Departments: Anthropology, Archaeology and the Ancient World Van Valkenburgh, Nathaniel Assistant Professor Nathaniel Van Valkenburgh is an anthropological archaeologist whose core research focuses on the political dimensions of landscapes, built environments, and human subjectivities -- or more broadly, political struggles lying at the intersections of where we live and who we are. His primary field project, the Proyecto Arqueológico Zaña Colonial (PAZC), has brought together archaeological settlement survey, archival research, geographic information systems (GIS) analysis, and the study of foodways to examine the impact of Spanish colonial forced resettlement on the indigenous populations of Peru in the 16th and 17th centuries CE. Research link Country: Peru Discipline: Social Sciences Department: Anthropology Vanwey, Leah Associate Professor Leah Vanwey studies the dynamics of frontier settlement and consolidation in the Brazilian Amazon. She asks how we can simultaneously protect the Amazon's precious environmental resources while promoting equitable social and economic development. Research link Country: Brazil Discipline: Social Sciences Department: Sociology Vaquero, Mercedes Professor Mercedes Vaquero’s research interests include the Medieval Spanish epic, chronicles, ballads, and oral tradition. She also regularly offers a graduate/undergraduate course on Spanish Philology. Research link Country: Spain Discipline: Arts & Humanities Department: Hispanic Studies Varshney, Ashutosh Professor Ashutosh Varshney’s research and teaching cover three areas: Political Economy of Development, Indian Politics, and Ethnicity and Nationalism. He is currently working on India's rising cities, the North-South economic divergence in India, and a multi-country project on cities and ethnic conflict. Research link Country: India Discipline: Social Sciences Departments: International Studies, Political Science Vieira, Nelson Professor Nelson Vieira's teaching and research interests include: Brazilian narrative of the late 19th and 20th centuries; Brazilian and Latin American Jewish writing; ethnicity and the question of identity; diaspora and cultural studies; gender and literary theory; modernist and postmodernist theories; and literary translation. Research link Country: Brazil Discipline: Arts & Humanities Department: Portuguese and Brazilian Studies Viswanathan, Meera Associate Professor Meera Viswanathan conducts research in classical Japanese poetry and prose; Western medieval court literature; and comparative poetics. Research link Country: Japan Discipline: Arts & Humanities Departments: Comparative Literature, East Asian Studies Vlahovska, Petia Associate Professor Petia Valhovska is a chemical engineer interested in the mechanics of complex fluids. Research link Country: France Discipline: Physical Sciences Department: Engineering Wands, Jack Professor Jack Wands directs the Liver Research Center, a newly constructed 13,000-sq. ft. facility that emphasizes studies relating to the molecular biology of liver diseases. Research link Countries: South Africa, Italy, China Discipline: Biology & Medicine Department: Wang, Hye-Sook Associate Professor Hye-Sook Wang conducts research on sociolinguistic and pragmatic aspects of Korean language acquisition. Research link Country: Korea Discipline: Arts & Humanities Department: East Asian Studies Wang, Lai-Sheng Professor Lai-Sheng Wang is an experimental physical chemist interested in the study of nanoclusters and solution-phase chemistry in the gas phase. Research link Country: China Discipline: Physical Sciences Department: Chemistry Wang, Lingzhen Associate Professor Lingzhen Wang's areas of expertise include modern Chinese literature and culture, Gender Studies, Feminist Theory, and Chinese cinema. Research link Country: China Discipline: Arts & Humanities Department: East Asian Studies Wang, Lu Assistant Professor Lu Wang composes works that reflect Chinese opera and folk music influences, through the prism of contemporary instrumental techniques and new sonic possibilities. Her works for a variety of Western and Chinese ensembles and orchestras have been performed internationally. Research link Country: China Discipline: Arts & Humanities Department: Music Wang, Yang Senior Lecturer Yang Wang's primary research interests include the Chinese pragmatics, Chinese language pedagogy, and intercultural communication strategies. Research link Country: China Discipline: Biology & Medicine Department: East Asian Studies Warren, Kay Professor Kay Warren's research agenda has involved multi-sited ethnographic studies of counterinsurgency wars, community responses to violence and peace processes, indigenous intellectuals, the anthropology of multi-cultural democracies, and gender and politics. She also works on documentary film and media issues. Her most recent research on international norms, human trafficking, and foreign aid has focused on Colombia, Japan, and Washington. Her earlier projects focused on Guatemala and Peru. Research link Countries: Colombia, Japan, Guatemala, Peru Discipline: Social Sciences Department: Anthropology Warren Jr., William Professor William Warren is interested in the links between vision and action. He is a member of various international professional associations, and was a Visiting Lecturer at Oxford in 2008. Research link Country: United Kingdom Discipline: Life Sciences Department: Cognitive Linguistic and Psychological Sciences Weber, Peter Professor Peter Weber’s research focuses on the development of new methods to investigate molecular reactions and then apply them to important model systems. Research link Countries: Denmark, Egypt, Russia Discipline: Physical Sciences Department: Chemistry Weinstein, Arnold Professor Arnold Weinstein researches European and American narrative, Scandinavian literature, American fiction, literature and medicine, and the city theme in literature. Research link Countries: Sweden, Denmark, Norway, France, Germany, United Kingdom Discipline: Arts & Humanities Department: Comparative Literature Weitz-Shapiro, Rebecca Assistant Professor Rebecca Weitz-Shapiro's research interests include comparative political institutions, political behavior, and the political economy of development, with a particular focus on Latin America. Research link Countries: Argentina, Brazil Discipline: Social Sciences Department: Political Science Wellenius, Gregory Assistant Professor Gregory Wellenius conducts research on the effects of air pollution on the risk of stroke and cardiovascular diseases. Research link Countries: Canada, Chile Discipline: Biology & Medicine Department: Epidemiology Wessel, Gary Professor Gary Wessel's primary research interest is the egg. He examines the molecular biology of oogenesis, fertilization, and the specification of primordial germ cells during early development. He explores conserved mechanisms found in humans, mice, starfish, and sea urchins. Research link Countries: Brazil, Ethiopia Discipline: Biology & Medicine Department: Molecular Biology Cell Biology and Biochemistry White, Michael Professor Michael White’s research focuses on issues that stand at the intersection of sociology and public policy. He studies the determinants of migration, urbanization, and their demographic and environmental consequences in developing countries such as China, Vietnam and Ghana. Research link Countries: China, Vietnam, Ghana, Italy, South Africa Discipline: Social Sciences Department: Sociology White, Russell Clinical Associate Professor Russell White has been Chief of Surgery and Endoscopy at Tenwek hospital, Kenya since 1997. Additionally, White has a program of research aimed at dealing with the endemic problem of esophageal cancer. Research link Country: Kenya Discipline: Biology & Medicine Department: Surgery Whitfield, Esther Associate Professor Esther Whitfield's current research focuses on war metaphors in Latin American political speech, literature and the arts; and on Welsh writing in the Americas. She has also worked extensively on Cuban culture of the post-Soviet period and on contemporary Latin American and Caribbean literature more broadly. Research link Countries: Cuba, Mexico, Argentina Discipline: Arts & Humanities Departments: Comparative Literature, Hispanic Studies Wiart, Annie Senior Lecturer Annie Wiart’s professional interest lies mostly in the area of the theory and practice of second/foreign language teaching and learning, with an emphasis on teacher training. She has served as resident director of the Brown-in-France program many times. Research link Country: France Discipline: Arts & Humanities Department: French Studies Williard, Paul Professor Paul Williard’s research focuses on synthesis of marine natural products as well as vitamin D derivatives. He has a strong interest in the characterization of reactive intermediates. He was Fellow at the Japanese Society for the Promotion of Science in 2013. Research link Country: Japan Discipline: Physical Sciences Department: Chemistry Willis, Andre Assistant Professor Andre Willis's teachings cover Christianity and culture, Christianity and economic inequality, African American theology, African American religious strategies, David Hume and religion, Afro-theism and religion and Postmodernism. Research link Countries: United States, United Kingdom Discipline: Arts & Humanities Department: Religious Studies Wills, David Professor David Wills specializes in modernist literature as well as film theory and comparative literature. Wills is also known as a major translator and interpreter of the work of French philosopher Jacques Derrida. Research link Country: France Discipline: Arts & Humanities Department: French Studies Wing, Edward Professor Edward Wing's research interests are focused on the immune host defenses against intracellular pathogens such as Listeria monocytogenes and Mycobacterium tuberculosis. He also has a strong clinical interest in infectious diseases, HIV, and international health. Research link Countries: Kenya, Dominican Rep., India, Cambodia, Vietnam, Russia Discipline: Biology & Medicine Department: Medicine Winkes, Rudolf Professor Rudolf Winkes' areas of expertise include Roman portraiture, Greek sculpture, portraiture, Roman painting, and Greek and Roman crafts, the impact of Greek and Roman culture on later periods and the art of emerging Christianity. Research link Countries: Greece, Brazil, Italy, Portugal, Belgium, Germany Discipline: Social Sciences Departments: Anthropology, History of Art and Architecture Witman, Jon Professor Jon Witman's research focuses on the dynamics of populations and communities in marine hard substrate habitates, benthic ecosystems, and marine biodiversity. Research link Countries: Ecuador, Chile Discipline: Biology & Medicine Department: Ecology and Evolutionary Biology Wong, Kenneth Professor Kenneth Wong’s research focuses on the politics of education, federalism, policy innovation, and governance redesign. His research has been funded by a number of international grants, mainly the British Council, and the Japan Society for the Promotion of Science. Research link Countries: United Kingdom, Japan, China, India Discipline: Social Sciences Departments: Education, Political Science, Urban Studies Xu, Jingming Professor Jingming Xu’s research focuses on nanoscale science and technology, quantum photonics, optics, semiconductor lasers, electro-optics, transparent conductive oxides, functional composites, and meta-materials, and collective behaviors of large coupled systems. He has served and is serving as adviser and on advisory boards and committees of government agencies, labs, and companies and firms in the USA, Canada, Korea, and China. Research link Countries: Korea, China, Canada Discipline: Physical Sciences Departments: Engineering, Physics Yamashita, Kikuko Associate Professor Kikuko Yamashita specializes in historical linguistics, Japanese linguistics, and language pedagogy. Her research interests include pragmatics, communication strategies, discourse analysis, and the language policies and national language of Japan. Research link Country: Japan Discipline: Arts & Humanities Department: East Asian Studies Yang, Wentian Assistant Professor Research Wentian Yang studies musculoskeletal disorders and diseases that cause cartilage degeneration or bone mineral loss. Research link Country: Canada Discipline: Biology & Medicine Departments: Medicine, Orthopaedics Ybarra, Patricia Associate Professor Patricia Ybarra’s research interests include theatre historiography, Mexican theatre and performance, Latino/a theatre and performance, avant garde theatre, critical race studies, dramaturgy and directing. Research link Countries: Mexico, Cuba Discipline: Arts & Humanities Department: Theatre Arts and Performance Studies Ying, See-Chen Professor See-Chen Ying is interested in the development and application of analytical and computational methods to tackle problems with multiple time and length scales. Current research interests include the dynamics of DNA molecules in nanopores and nanochannels, as well as the generation of frictional force at the microscopic nanostructure level. Ying has held visiting appointments in Hong Kong, Finland, Brazil, Germany, the UK, and France. Research link Countries: Finland, Germany, France, United Kingdom, Brazil, Hong Kong Discipline: Physical Sciences Department: Physics Zamindar, Vazira Associate Professor Vazira Zamindar is interested in cross-border and interdisciplinary histories for rethinking a divided South Asia, as well as the politics of violence and its impact on history-writing itself. Research link Countries: India, Pakistan, Bangladesh Discipline: Social Sciences Department: History Zaslavsky, Alexander Professor Alexander Zaslavsky’s research focuses on devices that could supplement the current silicon transistor-based microelectronics technology. Research link Country: France Discipline: Physical Sciences Department: Engineering Zeller, Kimberly Clinical Assistant Professor Kimberly Zeller's research focus is on the scale-up of HIV treatment and prevention of secondary HIV transmission in resource-restricted countries. Other interests include global research, training, and advocacy on HIV prevention and treatment. Recent projects include: leading a team to assist the Lesotho government in planning and funding the national response to HIV, developing of a program to train 100,000 private physicians in the Basics of HIV/AIDS treatment in India, investigating ongoing transmission risk in patients starting HIV/TB treatment in South Africa. Research link Countries: India, Lesotho, South Africa Discipline: Biology & Medicine Department: Family Medicine Zhitkovich, Anatoly Professor Anatoly Zhitkovich studies DNA repair, damage, and stress signaling. Research link Country: Portugal Discipline: Biology & Medicine Department: Pathology and Laboratory Medicine For Global Travelers Register Your Trip in TravelSafe Brown's International SOS Service International Health Insurance Tips While Abroad - The Take It With You Guide Controller's Office Travel Policies and Procedures IT Security Travel Tips International Research Administration Travel Clinic CIBT VISAS Services For Global Visitors Office of International Student & Scholar Services (OISSS) International Health Insurance Brown Travel Portal International Student Resources Visiting Undergraduate Students Visiting Research Fellows and Non-Degree Graduate Students Study Abroad Office of International Programs - Undergraduate Study Abroad Undergraduate Teaching and Research Awards Graduate School Partnerships and Exchanges Grant Opportunities Our grant database offers a wide range of funding opportunities for undergraduate and graduate students, faculty, and researcher in different fields of work. Search Grants Social Media Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Top Destinations Graduate School Alpert Medical School School of Public Health School of Engineering Resources A to Z Index Career Opportunities Make a Gift Brown University Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-1000 Map & Directions Social Media Dashboard Contact Us / Accessibility Giving to Brown