Skip to main content Skip to site menu Skip to Brown menu Skip to site search Information For: Current Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Brown University Enter search keyword About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life A to Z Index People Directory Loan Office Before You Borrow PLUS Loan Application Process Loan Office PLUS Loan Application Process Application Tips Apply for a PLUS Loan on/after May 1st for the upcoming academic year. Brown University will automatically receive the information electronically. We begin processing incoming PLUS Loan applications for the upcoming academic year in mid-June. Be careful to select the correct Academic Year when you apply. Avoid having a second credit check mid-year: apply for an amount to cover your estimated full year expenses. Student account balances for the upcoming fall are typically available by late June. To decrease an existing loan, send a detailed email to [email protected] To increase an existing loan, complete a new PLUS application for the new total amount. Note, this may result in a new credit check. Application Process Step 1: The Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) at StudentAid.gov is required and must be completed before any PLUS Loans can be processed. Step 2: Complete the PLUS Loan Application and PLUS Loan requirements online. (See links below) Parent Borrowers: Complete the PLUS Loan Application for Parents. (Must use your own FSA ID to login, not your student's). Complete the PLUS Master Promissory Note for Parents. Parents who are initially denied and later approved, must also complete the PLUS Loan Credit Counseling. Graduate/Professional Students: Apply for AND accept your maximum Unsubsidized Loan (required before PLUS will be procesed. Complete the PLUS Loan Application for Graduate/Professional Students. Complete the Grad PLUS Master Promissory Note and Entrance Counseling. If you are initially denied and later approved, you must also complete the PLUS Loan Credit Counseling. Your completed PLUS Application and completed loan requirements will be sent electronically to the Brown University Loan Office. ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Loan Details See our Federal Loans page for details on interest rate, origination fees, and grace period. Estimate your education expenses using the Tuition & Fees charts. The maximum loan amount may not exceed the cost of education, minus other estimated financial assistance. If you are requesting less than the maximum, you may choose to add the amount of the origination fee to your requested loan amount. To include the origination fee in your requested loan amount, determine how much you need to cover your expenses (net amount) and divide that amount by .9577. NOTE: The origination fee increases for loans first disbursed after October 1st each year. (Ex: To receive a net amount of $5,000 applied toward your student account, divide $5,000 by .9577 for a total loan request of $5,221.) Eligibility The borrrower must either be a Graduate/Professional student borrowing for their own educational expenses, or a parent borrowing for their dependent undergraduate student's educational expenses. The student and parent must be a U.S. Citizen or eligible non-citizen, be creditworthy, and not be in default on any prior educational loans. In addition, the student must be enrolled at least half-time in a degree program, and making satisfactory academic progress. Credit Information The credit decision is valid for 180 days and must still be in effect at the time of first disbursement. Interested in more information about the credit check? The Appeal a Credit Decision site lists detailed information about the credit check, appeal process, and endorser process. If a borrower is denied, there are a few options available: The borrower can appeal the decision by providing supporting documentation as requested by the Department of Education. The borrower can have a credit-worthy co-signer complete the Endorser process. All borrowers who are initially denied and later approved through appeal or endorser must complete PLUS Loan Credit Counseling. Borrowers will be notified of this requirement by the Department of Education. NOTE: This counseling is separate from the Entrance Counseling and does not satisfy the Entrance Counseling requirement in any way. Families can contact the Brown University Financial Aid Office to inquire about additional Federal Direct Unsubsidized Loans available to the student. The borrower can apply for the Installment Payment Plan administered by the Bursar’s Office. Loan Repayment Use the Loan Simulator to estimate your monthly payment amount. Learn more at Repay Your Loans. Home About Before You Borrow Borrow Wisely - Financial Considerations Loan Process - Application, Requirements, Disbursement PLUS Loan Application Process Federal Loans Institutional Loans Private Loans TEACH Grant Leaving Brown & Exit Counseling Repay your Loans 1098-E Student Loan Interest - Tax Information Employee Programs News Code of Conduct Print this Page Share this Page Loan Office Brown University Box 1950 Providence, RI 02912 Phone 401-863-3296 Fax 401-863-7518 [email protected] Brown University Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-1000 Maps & Directions / Contact Us / Accessibility © 2022 Brown University Connect: [email protected] Facebook Twitter YouTube iTunes U LinkedIn SnapChat Resources A to Z Index Career Opportunities Make a Gift People Directory Related Bursar's Office Cashier's Office Financial Services Financial Aid Undergraduate Graduate Medical