Skip to main content Temple University Explore Temple’s Schools and Colleges Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Support Temple Temple University Search Site Search Full Menu Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees President History & Traditions Temple Health News & Media Offices Public Information Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Development Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Libraries Occupational Therapy OTD You are here Home Academics Degrees and Programs Occupational Therapy OTD Apply Request More Info Occupational Therapy OTD Accreditation Admissions Clinical Education Required Courses Research & Facilities Scholarships & Financial Aid Doctorate of Occupational Therapy Help individuals maximize their health and quality of life with the Doctorate of Occupational Therapy from the College of Public Health at Temple. Learn to evaluate your clients’ needs and develop solutions that allow them to overcome dysfunction and gain independence, while strengthening your skills in clinical leadership, research-informed clinical practice and specialty teaching in higher education. The Occupational Therapy OTD was built on the belief that participation in occupational therapy facilitates the health and well-being of individuals, families, communities and populations, by incorporating the underlying principles of public health and rehabilitation science. This entry-level doctoral program reflects contemporary practice values in primary and acute medical care, mental health, community practice, rehabilitation engineering, social participation, and wellness. Through study and fieldwork, you will learn to demonstrate critical thinking skills in clinical practice; deliver occupational therapy services that promote diversity and inclusion; and act as an innovative leader by contributing to the research agenda in your field. Our curriculum emphasizes professional knowledge, assessment and interventions addressing occupational performance and participation, with emphasis on promoting health and wellness for all. Our faculty prizes scholarly and clinical growth, aspiring to create experiential learning opportunities that promote the development of critical, reflective occupational therapists who are engaged in innovative practice, leadership and research. Through the Occupational Therapy OTD program, you will prepare to take the national board certification (NBCOT) examination, which leads to employment as an occupational therapist, working with children, adults and seniors in educational, community and medical service areas. What sets apart our Occupational Therapy OTD program? Increased teaching experience: In addition to your doctorate, completion of this program earns you the Teaching in Higher Education Certification, which denotes your ability to use research-based teaching methods to promote the achievement, development and learning of your students. Advanced clinical education spaces: The occupational therapy program is housed in a new building on Temple’s Main Campus that features state-of-the-art instructional technology, smart classrooms and an Activities of Daily Living suite—a simulated home environment in which students practice implementing adaptive techniques to help clients navigate everyday tasks. Explore the space. A supportive academic environment: The Occupational Therapy OTD program fosters a tight-knit community of students who support each other inside and outside the classroom through meaningful academic and service projects. Internationally renowned faculty: Our faculty are recognized experts in the field, offering knowledge and research opportunities in areas including adult rehabilitation, child and youth development, community-based practices, and promoting inclusive institutional and legislative policies. Program Format & Curriculum The 116-credit Doctorate of Occupational Therapy is designed to be completed in three years of continuous, full-time study. All didactic work will be completed on Temple’s Main Campus. Experiential learning labs, fieldwork and the capstone experience will take place at off-campus clinical and community sites. Courses in this entry-level doctoral program include the following. Health & Wellness in the Community Kinesiology Perspectives in Occupational Therapy Occupational Therapy Practice: Mental Health Person-Environment Dynamics in Occupation Research I: Methodologies for Occupational Therapy Teaching in Higher Education: Health Professions Theoretical Perspectives of Occupation Students are required to complete a 14-week doctoral capstone field experience that is founded in principles of occupational therapy and public health. This capstone experience allows students the opportunity to apply advanced knowledge, evaluate outcomes and disseminate in scholarly venues. Learn more about requirements for the Occupational Therapy OTD. Related Graduate Programs Occupational Therapy (Transitional Program) OTD Tuition & Fees In keeping with Temple’s commitment to access and affordability, this Doctorate of Occupational Therapy offers a competitive level of tuition with multiple opportunities for financial support. Tuition rates are set annually by the university and are affected by multiple factors, including program degree level (undergraduate or graduate), course load (full- or part-time), in-state or out-of-state residency, and more. These tuition costs apply to the 2021–2022 academic year. Pennsylvania resident: $1,020.00 per credit Out-of-state: $1,398.00 per credit Learn more about our tuition and fees. View the total cost of attendance for the Occupational Therapy OTD program. (PDF) Our Advisors The College of Public Health offers personalized advising services to students in each department. Upon entry into the program, students are assigned a faculty academic advisor who will provide guidance on academic and professional development. Program Contact Kimberly Gargin is the occupational therapy program director. Email: kimberly.gargin@temple.edu Phone: 215-204-1229 Student Clubs & Organizations You can engage with peers and find leadership opportunities in student-led clubs and organizations, including the following. The Student Occupational Therapy Association The Pi Theta Epsilon honor society The Coalition of Occupational Therapy Advocates for Diversity Learn more about student clubs and organizations. HP-OTHR-DOT Additional Program Information Visit College Site Go back to AcademicsMore in Occupational Therapy OTD Accreditation Admissions Clinical Education Required Courses Research & Facilities Scholarships & Financial Aid Apply Request More Info Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Calendar Policies Social Media TUportal TUmail Accessibility Careers at Temple Safety & Emergency Information Ethics & Compliance Privacy Statement Professional Licensure Disclosures Follow Temple University Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community. Apply Request More Info