Close Alert Message Alert Carolina! Normal The University is currently operating under normal conditionsLast updated at 6:00pmFriday, May 27th, 2022Skip to Main Content Top Level Navigation Discover Navigate Navigate About the UniversityDisplay Sub Menu for About the University About the University Alumni By the numbers Branding and Identity GuidelinesOpens in new site Carolina NextOpens in new site For the MediaOpens in new site Frequently Asked Questions History and Traditions Leadership Mission & Values Support the University UNC Social Media UNC SystemOpens in new site News and UpdatesDisplay Sub Menu for News and Updates News and Updates Academics Around Campus Arts & Humanities Athletics Events Calendar Global Health & Medicine Innovation & Entrepreneurship University News Research Working at CarolinaOpens in new site Campaign for CarolinaOpens in new site AcademicsDisplay Sub Menu for Academics Academics Academic Calendar and Registrar Academic Enhancements Continuing Education Opportunities Academic Departments Friday Center for Continuing Education Libraries Online and Distance EducationOpens in new site Programs and Curricula Summer School Admissions and Aid SchoolsDisplay Sub Menu for Schools Schools College of Arts & Sciences Adams School of Dentistry Education Eshelman School of Pharmacy Gillings School of Global Public Health Government Graduate School Information & Library Science Law Kenan-Flagler Business School Hussman School of Journalism and Media Medicine Nursing Social Work Come Visit Us Diversity and Inclusion Research Innovation and Economic Development Arts and Culture GlobalOpens in new site Life at CarolinaDisplay Sub Menu for Life at Carolina Life at Carolina About the Town Campus Recreation Carolina Housing Carolina UnionOpens in new site Community and Public Service Health & Wellness AthleticsDisplay Sub Menu for Athletics Athletics GoHeels.comOpens in new site Campus RecreationOpens in new site IntramuralsOpens in new site Sports ClubsOpens in new site UNC HealthOpens in new site Search The University of North Carolina at Chapel HillHide Main Navigation Menu Featured Diamond Heels claim ACC title Tar Heels cap undefeated season with NCAA title Academics Overview Academic Departments Academic Calendar and Registrar Academic Enhancements Continuing Education Opportunities Friday Center for Continuing Education Libraries Online and Distance Education Programs and Curricula Summer School Search PeopleOpens in new window PlacesOpens in new window Search UNC.edu Academic Enhancements A complete education means supporting the whole student. Discover the many ways Carolina helps students succeed at every level of their higher-education journey. Jump To... Academic Advising Program Center for Student Success and Academic Counseling Library System Research Institutes and Centers Scholarly Journals The University of North Carolina Press Academic Advising Program Carolina’s Academic Advising Programassists undergraduate students in the General College and the College of Arts & Sciences with all aspects of academic planning and decision-making, including selecting a major, choosing appropriate courses and ensuring progress toward a degree. Students are assigned a primary advisor but may see any advisor for their concerns. Center for Student Success and Academic Counseling CSSAChelps Carolina students develop the skills and strategies necessary to succeed academically at Carolina. Its broad range of programs helps prepare students to become the next generation of leaders. The center’s programs include: Student Academic Counseling Student Academic Counselingoffers academic and personal support to all students, including individual academic counseling appointments and guidance for student-led initiatives and projects. Additionally, the unit provides programs and activities that promote academic excellence, increase retention and improve the campus climate for diversity among American Indian and African American undergraduate students. SAC’s Peer Mentoring program offers three areas of support: Peer mentors help first-year minority students adjust to Carolina academically and developmentally through relationship building, support and guidance through the Minority Advising Program; C-STEP Mentoring pairs current C-STEP students with incoming low- and middle-income college transfer students; and Carolina Covenant Mentoring pairs incoming Covenant students with current Covenant scholars to ensure holistic success on campus. The Learning Center The Learning Center helps students optimize learning strategies to achieve their academic potential at Carolina through its various programs, including peer tutoring for many introductory courses, one-on-one academic coaching, and theAcademic Success Program for Students with LD and ADHD. The Writing Center The Writing Centerprovides free services for students seeking help with their writing skills, including online and face-to-face coaching appointments with graduate and undergraduate students specially trained in writing instruction. The center also features a wealth ofhandouts and videosand additional services for non-native English speaking students and scholars. Summer Bridge Summer Bridge is a seven-week residential academic support program for a select group of entering first-year students, designed to ease participants’ personal and academic transition from high school to Carolina. Pre-Graduate School Advising Pre-Graduate School Advising, located in Hanes Hall, provides undergraduate students in the College of Arts & Sciences with guidance on researching and applying to graduate programs. Advisors can help clarify the differences between a doctorate and a master’s degree and the opportunities a terminal degree may offer. Pre-health Advising Although Carolina has no formal pre-health curriculum or major, students interested in a career in health sciences are strongly encouraged to visit the Health Professions Advising Office soon after their first semester for information on course requirements and other preparations for the field. The office gives advice about many health professions, including allopathic medicine, osteopathic medicine, podiatric medicine, dentistry, nursing, pharmacy, physical therapy, and veterinary medicine. Advising information, advising hours, and information about joining the pre-health information listserv may be found on the office’s website. Library System Carolina’s library system is one of the premier libraries in the South. It includes the House Undergraduate Library, Davis Library, the Wilson Special Collections Library, the Health Sciences Library and multiple libraries with subject specialties – all open to the public. The University Libraries website provides access to scholarly research materials including e-journals, e-books, citation guides and online research assistance through e-mail, chat, and text messaging services. Research Institutes and Centers The intellectual life of the University and the research activities of undergraduates, graduate students and faculty receive valuable support from many institutes and centers. These institutes do not operate as instructional agencies within the University; rather, they serve to obtain financial and organizational assistance for their scholar-members. Most research centers and institutes can be found on the UNC Research website. Scholarly Journals The University has published scholarly journals since 1884, when theJournal of the Elisha Mitchell Scientific Societyfirst appeared. The following list contains some of the publications currently produced by the University’s graduate and professional programs. American Diplomacy.Journal for commentary, analysis and research on American foreign policy and its practice. Annali d’Italianistica.Journal promotes the study of Italian literature in its cultural context, fosters scholarly excellence and presents topics of interest to a large number of Italianists. Carolina Papers in International Health and Development.Series of UNC–Chapel Hill graduate student working papers designed to promote scholarship in the fields of health and development and to raise awareness of such issues among international studies specialists. North CarolinaLawReview.Published by the School of Law to stimulate research and publication by faculty and students. Studies in the Romance Languages and Literatures.Publication has long supported and disseminated scholarship in the romance literatures. The University of North Carolina Press The University of North Carolina Press is the primary scholarly publishing arm of the University. It advances the research, teaching, and public service missions of a great public university by publishing excellent work from leading scholars, writers and intellectuals and by presenting that work to both academic audiences and general readers. Accessibility Alert Carolina Alumni Connect Carolina Campus Map Contact Us Careers Departments A – Z Ethics and Integrity For the Media Libraries People Directory Privacy Statement UNC Student Stores The Well Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest © 2022 The University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill Tweet Share E-mail Tweet Share E-mail Tweet Share LinkedIn E-mail