Skip to main content Navigation Academics Admissions Research Locations Student Life Alumni & Giving Athletics Apply Now Bachelor of Science in Data Science, BS Use Big Data to Support the Decision-Making Process in Organizations Program at a Glance Program Bachelor College(s) College of Sciences Department(s) Statistics & Data Science 4 Years In State Tuition Out of State Tuition $212.28 per credit hour $748.89 per credit hour Learn more about program tuition and fees. Solve Real-World Problems Through Data Information and Insight The BS in Data Science program at UCF spans a variety of sub-disciplines within the greater field of data science to provide you with an opportunity to specialize in an area that aligns with your personal and professional goals. These include mathematics, statistics, specialized programming, algorithm design, and the fundamentals of uncovering, interpreting and communicating the business insights obtained from the data to help business to make informed decisions. From tracking consumer behaviors to performing an analysis on trends, you’ll play a critical role in informing organizations about current operations and helping guide decision-making. Digest complex information to present and share with leadership about recommendations and effective strategies to move forward. Data scientists provide information that helps companies explore new opportunities that may have gone unnoticed before. Throughout your coursework, you’ll have an opportunity to create, adapt and use state-of-the-art tools to obtain insight from large and unstructured data sets and convert them into knowledge. Plus, with the program’s heavy emphasis on physical and computational sciences, explore multiple disciplines and become well-versed in this growing field. Data science graduates work for a number of sectors nationally — like big tech — to local opportunities around the Central Florida corridor. Highlights Data scientists are one of the top five jobs in the U.S. according to Glassdoor. Data scientists are in high-demand in many industries, including technology, finance, healthcare, manufacturing and gaming. The demand for data science skills will grow 28 percent through 2026. The national average salary for a data analyst is $62,000. Undergraduate Application Deadlines Freshmen Transfers International Fall May 1 Spring November 1 Summer March 1 Fall July 1 Spring November 1 Summer March 1 Fall March 1 Spring September 1 Summer January 1 Ready to get started? Apply Today Start Your Application Today Ready to get started? Take the next step to save your spot at UCF. 1 Check out your application requirements. See what freshmen and transfer students need to apply. 2 Short on time? You can start your application today and come back later to finish. Apply Today Course Overview Computer Science I Learn problem solving techniques, order analysis and notation, abstract data types and recursion. Data Science I Explore the basic tools, theory and practice of Data Science. Statistical Methods II Discover methods of analyzing data, statistical models, estimation, tests of hypotheses, regression and correlation, an introduction to analysis of variance, chi-square and nonparametric methods. We’re offering students a modern degree in a field that is growing as quickly as it is evolving.” — Shunpu Zhang, Ph.D., Statistics and Data Science department chair Data Science Skills You'll Learn Gain a solid foundation in the basic science behind data creation and extraction. Learn how to extract actionable insight from data using data science techniques including Machine Learning, Deep Learning and Natural Language Processing, etc. Collect, shape, store, manage and analyze data for various organizations across different industries. Career Opportunities Data Analyst Data Scientist Data Engineer Machine Learning Specialist Enterprise Architect College of Sciences News Check out more stories Colleges & Campus Knights Do That Podcast: Best Moments of Season 1 and 2 Theater student Alex Cumming reflects on his favorite moments as his time as host comes to an end. Season three of Knights Do That launches… Colleges & Campus Research in 60 Seconds Video: Examining Effective Crisis Communication Pegasus Professor Timothy Sellnow, who teaches in the Nicholson School of Communication and Media, researches the importance and impact of simply using the right words during… Colleges & Campus 5 UCF Scholars to be Inducted into Academy of Science, Engineering and Medicine of Florida The organization’s members are top scholars and researchers from universities, public agencies, and industries statewide who are committed to addressing key issues and challenges impacting… Student Life UCF’s Planetary Science Rock Stars Guests at MegaCon 2022 UCF faculty participate in pop culture convention to help people understand space science and why it matters in an entertaining way. Degree Search College of Sciences programs Bachelors Data Science (BS) University of Central Florida Colleges Burnett Honors Arts and Humanities Business Community Innovation and Education Engineering and Computer Science Graduate Studies Health Professions and Sciences Medicine Nursing Optics and Photonics Undergraduate Studies Hospitality Management University of Central Florida About UCF Contact Us Faculty Online Degrees Policies Privacy Notice Public Records Regulations Report a Concern UCF News 4000 Central Florida Blvd. Orlando, Florida, 32816 | 407.823.2000 © University of Central Florida