Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. Faculty Senate Faculty Senate right arrow down arrow About Us right arrow down arrow Chair & Cabinet Senators Committees right arrow down arrow Academic Affairs Budget & Priorities Committee on Committees Governance Human Relations Information Technology Nominating Planning Research & Scholarship All-University Governance Committees Get Involved right arrow down arrow Meeting Calendar Contact Home » Employees » Faculty Senate » Committees » Research & Scholarship Set Navigation title in component Academic Affairs Budget & Priorities Committee on Committees Governance Human Relations Information Technology Nominating Planning Research & Scholarship All-University Governance Committees Research & Scholarship Chair Jennifer Wright-Berryman Associate Professor, CAHS School of Social Work 171 HSB 513-556-4411 wrigh2jb@ucmail.uc.edu Dr. Wright-Berryman is an Associate Professor of Social Work in the College of Allied Health Sciences. She recieved her PhD in social work from Indiana University School of Social Work, with a PhD minor in Epidemiology from the Indiana University Department of Public Health in the IU School of Medicine. Dr. Wright-Berryman began teaching at UC Blue Ash in 2013 and developed the pre-social work program there. She then moved to the UC School of Social Work the fall of 2014. Dr. Wright-Berryman's research interests involve adolescent and adult suicide, severe mental disorders, and physcial health among adults with severe mental disorders. Dr. Wright-Berryman is the clinical principal investigator for Clarigent Health, a technology company using machine learning/natural language processing to identify suicide risk. She currently oversees a national study with Clarigent. Dr. Wright-Berryman is also on the research team with Hope Squad, an international, peer-to-peer, school-based suicide prevention program. Dr. Wright-Berryman teaches mental health policy and interprfessinoal suicide prevention for the health professions. Recent Publications: Wright-Berryman, J., Thompson, D. & Cramer, R.J. (2021, under review). Reducing Suicide-Related Stigma through Peer-to-Peer School-Based Suicide Prevention Programming. Children and Schools. Cohen, J., Wright-Berryman, J. et al. (2021, under review). Integration and Validation of a Natural Language Processing Machine Learning Suicide Risk Prediction Model in the Emergency Department. Frontiers in Psychiatry. La Guardia, A., Wright-Berryman, J., Cramer, R.J., Kaniuka, A.R., & Adams Tufts, K. (2021, Online First). Interprofessional Suicide Prevention Education: Training Insights from a Course Disrupted by the COVID-19 Pandemic. Crisis. Cohen, J., Wright-Berryman, J. Rohlfs, L. Wright, D. Campbell, M. Gingrich, D. Santel, D., & Pestian, J. (2021). A Feasibility Study Using a Machine Learning Suicide Risk Prediction Model Based on Open-Ended Interview Language in Adolescent Therapy Sessions. International Journal of Environmental Research and Public Health. Cramer, R.J., La Guardia, A.C., Wright-Berryman, J., Long, M.M., & Adams Tufts, K. (2019). Integrating Interprofessional Education into Suicide Prevention Training: Results from a Continuous Quality Improvement Project. Social Work in Public Health. https://www.tandfonline.com/doi/full/10.1080/19371918.2019.1635950 Wright-Berryman, J., Hudnall, G., Bledsoe, C., & Lloyd, M. (2018). Suicide Concern Reporting among Utah Youths Served by a School-Based Peer-to-Peer Prevention Program. Children & Schools, 41(1), 35-44. View Full Profile Description of Committee The charge of the Research & Scholarship Committee is to identify relevant research and scholarship issues; recommend solutions to identified issues; recommend changes for the development and implementation f programs designed to support and reward research activity; and examine, review, and make recommendations to the Senate about proposals that affect faculty research and scholarship. Committee Members Name Term Email Steve Davidson (CoM) 2020-22 steve.davidson@uc.edu Amy Koshoffer (Libraries) 2020-22 amy.koshoffer@uc.edu Gian Rassati 2020-22 gian.rassati@uc.edu Jenny Doctor (CCM) 2021-23 jenny.doctor@uc.edu Megan Lamkin (ELCE) 2021-23 megan.lamkin@uc.edu Seung-Yeon Lee (CAHS) 2021-23 lee2so@ucmail.uc.edu Responsibilities Identify and recommend solutions to relevant research and scholarship issues Recommend changes/modifications for development and implementation of programs intended to support and/or reward research activity Review and make recommendations to the Senate about proposals affecting faculty research and scholarship Membership 6 total elected members Members elected to serve two year term Terms will be staggered, 3 elected in odd years; 3 elected in even years 300 USQUARE 225 Calhoun St. Cincinnati, OH 45219 (513) 556-3445 UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati 300 USQUARE 225 Calhoun St. Cincinnati, OH 45219 (513) 556-3445 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top