Skip to main content iastate.edu Index A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z Directory Maps Safety Sign Ons AccessPlus Canvas CyBox CyMail Okta Outlook Workday More Sign Ons... Iowa State University Office of Student Financial Aid Menu Toggle Search Toggle Search Home Types of Aid Scholarships Scholarship Award Code Request (Staff) Grants Federal Work-Study Loans Loan Resources Calculators Deferment and Forbearance Entrance and Exit Counseling Federal Loan Servicers Federal Student Loan Limits Interest Rates and Origination Fees Loan Consolidation Promissory Notes Repayment Tracking Your Loans Cost Cost of Attendance Undergraduate Students: Fall & Spring Graduate Students: Fall & Spring Veterinary Medicine Students Years 1, 2, 3: Fall & Spring Veterinary Medicine Students Year 4: Summer, Fall, & Spring Cost of Attendance Adjustment Veterinary Medicine Cost of Attendance Adjustment 2022-23 Expense Estimator 2021-22 Net Price Calculator FAFSA Completing the FAFSA Verification Tax Filers Non-Tax Filers Verification Document Deadline Policy Verification Forms FAFSA Dependency Independent Appeals FAFSA FSA ID Making Corrections to the FAFSA Special Conditions Student Aid Report (SAR) Student Eligibility Forms Resources About Your Award Letter Calculators Consortium Agreement FAQs Financial Aid Policies Informational Videos Message from the Director Paying Your Bill Satisfactory Academic Progress (SAP) Appealing Financial Aid Suspension SAP for Graduate Students SAP for Undergraduate Students Veterans & Military Students Veterinary Medicine Students Additional Financial Assistance SNAP Benefit Information Withdrawing and Dropping Classes Other Resources Contact Us Site Index Student Employment America Reads/America Counts America Reads/America Counts Contact General Information Information for Educators Information for Prospective Tutors Average Pay Rates Federal Work-Study Work-Study in Workday Student Employee Recognition Student Employee of the Year National Student Employment Week Student Employment Center (SEC) Student Job Board Post a Job Undergraduate Research Assistantships (URA) Student Financial Success New to Iowa State University Welcome to Iowa State University! We are excited to welcome you to the Cyclone family! Our Financial Aid Director has an important message for you as you prepare for your Cyclone Adventure. Start Planning Now for 2022-2023 View your Financial Aid Offer in AccessPlus under the “Student” tab then “Financial Aid Offer” for details about your cost of attendance and financial aid options available to you. Now is the time to start talking about financing your education your education at ISU! Continue to monitor your email for important updates about financial aid action steps, and most action steps will be completed after attending new student orientation this summer. The Office of Student Financial Aid is available to meet with students virtually and in-person if you have questions before attending orientation. Student with a valid Net-ID, can schedule an in-person or virtual appointment using the Navigate Student mobile app. No appointment can be scheduled in the month of June. Call the Office of Student Financial Aid at 515-294-2223 to have your questions answered or schedule an appointment with a Financial Aid Advisor. Visit Us at Orientation You will have various opportunities to have your financial aid questions answered when you attend orientation. Our Financial Aid Overview session will be offered at 10:00 AM and 11:00 AM each day during June Orientation in 0127 Curtiss Hall. The Financial Aid Overview session covers everything and more about receiving financial aid at Iowa State University, but if you still have questions, you can meet with a Financial Aid Advisor. You can review the presentation slides online. You can use our Financial Aid Checklist to ensure you have completed all necessary steps to receive your financial aid on time in August. Walk-in advising is available weekly Monday-Friday from 8:00 AM – 4:00 PM and 8:00 AM – 12:00 PM if your orientation session starts on a Sunday. Refer to your orientation schedule for details. Important Information About Your Financial Aid Offer: Financial Aid Offers are contingent on continued funding from federal, state and institutional sources. Offers are subject to change and may be rescinded or reduced if funding is insufficient or discontinued, your financial need changes, your tuition assessment changes, or you receive aid from other sources. In the event a student receives outside/private scholarships in excess of the standard cost of attendance, the financial aid offer will be revised. Your Financial Aid Offer may also be revised if your Expected Family Contribution (EFC) changes as a result of FAFSA verification. Use AccessPlus to monitor your verification status under the “Student” tab then “FAFSA Status”. Take action to submit FAFSA verification documents as soon as possible. Protecting your Student’s Information Keeping student and FAFSA information secure is our top priority. In order to best answer your questions, we will ask students and parents (if listed on the student’s FAFSA) to verify their identity. If you call our office, it is best to have your student’s ID number and financial aid offer available. To keep your student’s information secure, we will not be able to discuss financial aid information with any individual other than the student, parent(s) listed on the FAFSA or persons whom the student has granted Third Party Access via AccessPlus. While we cannot give specific dollar amounts on the phone or in an email, we can confirm dollar amounts you see on your student’s financial aid award. It is important that your student knows how to access and navigate AccessPlus. We encourage all students to set-up Third Party Access in AccessPlus. Third Party Access allows other individuals, like family members, to have their own log-in for AccessPlus to view financial aid and other information the student approved. Expectations for Students Communicating with Students Regarding Financial Aid The Office of Student Financial Aid uses ISU e-mail as the primary source of communication when reaching out to students. Students should regularly check their ISU e-mail for important notifications from the Office of Student Financial Aid. Employment and Students The Office of Student Financial Aid encourages all students to work while enrolled. Working while enrolled provides many benefits which might include improved time management skills, work-place skills, resume building and earned money that does not need to be repaid. There are a variety of job opportunities for students that average about 10-15 hours of work each week. Jobs are continually updated for students throughout the year. All students have access to the Student Job Board in AccessPlus. If your student is interested in working, they should check the Job Board for available jobs Enrollment and Financial Aid Eligibility Generally, a student must be enrolled at least half-time (5.5 credit hours) to receive any financial aid and keep student loans in a deferment status. As a student changes their schedule, it may impact their ability to keep their current financial aid or receive financial aid in the future. Our Financial Aid Enrollment Status policy as well as the Withdrawal From Classes and Less than Full-Time Enrollment and Financial Aid policies Academic Performance and Financial Aid Eligibility If a student is receiving federal financial aid, their academic performance can impact their ability to receive financial aid. A student must maintain a minimum GPA and pass most of the classes they attempt each semester. If a student is not meeting those requirements, their financial aid eligibility may be jeopardized. Details regarding the Satisfactory Academic Progress (SAP) policy can be found online If you are impacted by SAP, the Office of Student Financial Aid will contact you via AccessPlus. Office of Student Financial Aid Office of Student Financial Aid 0210 Beardshear Hall 515 Morrill Road Ames, IA 50011-2103 Summer 2022 Office Hours Monday-Friday 7:30 am - 4:00 pm Contact Us financialaid@iastate.edu 515-294-2223 phone 515-294-0851 fax Facebook Twitter Instagram Social Media Directory Copyright © 1995 - Iowa State University of Science and Technology All rights reserved. FAFSA: ISU School Code 001869 Financial Aid Code of Conduct Consumer Information Disclosure CyCash Loading... Home Types of Aid ▼ Scholarships ▼ Scholarship Award Code Request (Staff) Grants Federal Work-Study Loans Loan Resources ▼ Calculators Deferment and Forbearance Entrance and Exit Counseling Federal Loan Servicers Federal Student Loan Limits Interest Rates and Origination Fees Loan Consolidation Promissory Notes Repayment Tracking Your Loans Cost ▼ Cost of Attendance ▼ Undergraduate Students: Fall & Spring Graduate Students: Fall & Spring Veterinary Medicine Students Years 1, 2, 3: Fall & Spring Veterinary Medicine Students Year 4: Summer, Fall, & Spring Cost of Attendance Adjustment Veterinary Medicine Cost of Attendance Adjustment 2022-23 Expense Estimator 2021-22 Net Price Calculator FAFSA ▼ Completing the FAFSA Verification ▼ Tax Filers Non-Tax Filers Verification Document Deadline Policy Verification Forms FAFSA Dependency ▼ Independent Appeals FAFSA FSA ID Making Corrections to the FAFSA Special Conditions Student Aid Report (SAR) Student Eligibility Forms Resources ▼ About Your Award Letter Calculators Consortium Agreement FAQs Financial Aid Policies Informational Videos Message from the Director Paying Your Bill Satisfactory Academic Progress (SAP) ▼ Appealing Financial Aid Suspension SAP for Graduate Students SAP for Undergraduate Students Veterans & Military Students Veterinary Medicine Students Additional Financial Assistance ▼ SNAP Benefit Information Withdrawing and Dropping Classes Other Resources Contact Us Site Index Student Employment ▼ America Reads/America Counts ▼ America Reads/America Counts Contact General Information Information for Educators Information for Prospective Tutors Average Pay Rates Federal Work-Study ▼ Work-Study in Workday Student Employee Recognition ▼ Student Employee of the Year National Student Employment Week Student Employment Center (SEC) Student Job Board ▼ Post a Job Undergraduate Research Assistantships (URA) Student Financial Success