Skip to main content SMU Explore SMU Academics Student Affairs About News Events Calendar SMU Research Bush Center Current Students Alumni Faculty & Staff Apply to SMUGIVE NOW Undergraduate Admission Apply Visit Financial Aid Menu Search Undergraduate Admission Apply FAQs | Undergraduate Temporary Test-Optional Policy FAQs | Undergraduate Temporary Test-Optional Policy Apply First Year International Students Transfer Forms and Applications Readmission Graduate Studies FAQs | Undergraduate Temporary Test-Optional Policy Submitting Test Scores How long is the temporary test-optional policy in place? We have extended our Temporary Test Optional policy to cover fall 2023 and spring 2024 applicants. How do I know if I should submit my test scores or not? Admission and scholarship decisions are based on many factors including information from applicants’ high school transcript, personal essay, letters of recommendation, and record of personal achievements in addition to SAT or ACT scores. Under this policy, applicants who choose not to submit ACT or SAT scores will be evaluated on the other factors. Do you superscore standardized test scores? For those who choose to submit scores, SAT and ACT scores are superscored. Self-reported test scores are also accepted. If I choose to self-report test scores, will I be able to report one specific section of the SAT or ACT? For self-reported scores, provide scores for each section of the exam. Partial scores will not be considered. If I submit test scores will I be looked at more favorably than those who do not? No preference is given to applicants who submit or do not submit test scores. Grade/GPA-Related Questions If my grades were impacted by COVID-19, what should I do? All application materials are looked at in context. Many students have seen their academic record impacted by COVID-19, and items will be viewed through that lens. What if my school uses Pass/Fail grades during the Spring 2020 semester? Pass/Fail grades or any other official grading system submitted by your school will be considered in our admission review. If I do not submit test scores, will you put more weight on my GPA? Without test scores, all other elements of your application become more important, including grades, résumé, essays and recommendation letters. Extracurricular Activities My extracurricular activities have been put on hold because of COVID-19, how will they be evaluated during the admission process since many were cancelled? It is understood that most extracurricular activities will be affected in the foreseeable future, and the potential gap in activities will not affect admission to SMU. Cox School of Business If I do not submit test scores, will I be considered for admission to the Cox School of Business? Yes, the Cox School of Business will review all students who list business as an academic interest/major on their application. Scholarship Consideration If I choose not to submit my test scores, will it impact my ability/chances of receiving a merit award? No, academic merit scholarships are awarded to over half of the students in its entering class each fall. They range in value from $20,000 to $30,000 per year and more. These scholarships do not require a separate application and will also follow a test-optional process. If I take the SAT or ACT after I am admitted, can I submit those scores later for scholarship consideration? Yes, additional information for scholarship consideration can be submitted until the scholarship deadline date (typically January 15). If I choose not to submit my scores, how will that impact my ability/chances of receiving departmental scholarships? All students who apply to SMU and list an academic interest or major will be evaluated for departmental scholarships regardless of whether test scores are submitted or not. International Students I am an international student. Are you also waiving English proficiency requirements (e.g. TOEFL, IELTS, etc.)? Proof of English proficiency will still be required if your four years of high school education was not in English. Honors Programs If I do not submit test scores, will I be considered for the University’s honors programs? Yes, without standardized test scores, consideration for the University's honors program will still be given. Future Applicant - Entering SMU in 2023 and Beyond Will SMU consider going to test-optional in future years? At this time, the policy is only temporary and applies to students who apply to start in the Spring 2023, Fall 2023 or Spring 2024. If I graduate in 2023 but decide to wait a year to apply to SMU, will this policy still apply to me? This policy was approved for students starting in Spring 2023, Fall 2023 or Spring 2024. If a gap year is desired, apply for admission under the current test-optional policy and, if admitted, request a gap year. How will you review the second semester of my junior year? This is a challenging, uncertain time and SMU will continue to provide a truly holistic review of your application. It is the hope that all applicants will stay actively engaged in their academics to prepare for future academic success as well as for standardized testing. If schools go to a Pass/Fail system of grading (or credit/no credit), how will SMU review this during the application process? Many schools have planned to take this approach. There are no penalties for any adjustment to grading methodology during this period of time. Apply NowVisit Us Back to top Academics Cox School of Business Dedman College of Humanities and Science Dedman School of Law Lyle School of Engineering Meadows School of the Arts Moody School of Graduate and Advanced Studies Perkins School of Theology Simmons School of Education & Human Development SMU CAPE SMU Libraries The Guildhall Audience Links Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Alumni Faculty & Staff Media Parents Quick Links SMU Ignited: Boldly Shaping Tomorrow COVID-19 Information (Mustang Strong) Bush Center SMU Store Academic Calendar Events Calendar Employment Giving to SMU Virtual Tour Get in Touch Contact Us Maps Directions Compliance Legal Disclosures Report Sexual Harassment Reporting a BIAS Incident HEERF Reporting Emergency Preparedness Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkedIn YouTube © Southern Methodist University, PO Box 750100, Dallas, TX 75275 Apply First-Year Domestic Student* Application First-Year International Student* Application Transfer Forms and Applications Readmission to SMU Graduate Studies FAQs | Undergraduate Temporary Test-Optional Policy Visit Virtual Campus Experience In-Person Visit Virtual Tour Admission Events Maps and Directions Residential Commons Tour Where to Stay Academics Majors and Minors Schools Faculty Virtual Connections Support and Resources Honors and Scholars Tips SMU Abroad SMU-in-Taos FAQs | Academics Campus Life SMU and Dallas Residence Life Dining Health and Safety Spirit and Traditions Diversity At SMU Activities and Organizations Fitness and Recreation Sports Spiritual Life En Espanol FAQs | Living on Campus FAQs | Student Life Financial Aid Cost of Attendance Types of Aid Access SMU Financial Aid Process Payment Plan Options SMU Net Price Calculator Mustang Scholars Robert H. Dedman Scholarship for North Dallas High School En Español Contact Us Deadlines FAQs FAQs | Financial Aid FAQs | Tuition, Fees, and Deadlines Scholarships and Assistance Connect Meet Your Admission Counselor School Contacts Request Information High School Counselor Information Parent Information Social Media and Zoom Backgrounds Frequently Asked Questions Publications Student Ambassadors Coronavirus (COVID-19) Updates Incoming and Current Students Prospective Student Publications Wallpapers International How to Apply Visit SMU Life in Dallas Living at SMU International Student Events Intercultural Engagement Athletics at SMU Spirit and Traditions Immigration Information Obtaining an I-20 Transfer Benefits of an SMU Education Transfer Scholarships Transfer Admission Application Process Transfer Dates and Deadlines Transfer Pathway Guides Transfer Equivalency Tool Meadows Auditions and Portfolios Transfer Forms and Applications International Transfer Students FAQs Congratulations on your admission to SMU! How Credits Transfer Partnership Programs Menu Search Search Submit Popular Searches Apply Academics Campus Life Majors and Minors Visit Financial Aid Did you know? SMU's main campus is located in the nation's fourth largest metropolitan area, Dallas-Fort Worth, with 7.4 million people and more than 20 Fortune 500 headquarters.Learn More Menu Search