Skip to main content Top Bar PENN SUSTAINABILITY HOME News Contact View Upcoming Events » Main navigation Our Commitment Overview President's Message About Penn Sustainability Our Plan Our History Our Team Annual Progress Reports STARS Plan Videos Initiatives Overview Learning Sustainability Conserving Energy Designing Green Minimizing Waste Reducing Emissions Purchasing Practices Eating Local Wellness Partners Overview Academic Centers Schools and Centers Student Groups Morris Arboretum Resources Overview FAQs Guides & Manuals Tours and Maps Participate Overview Students Staff and Faculty Penn Community Our Plan Carbon Neutrality by 2042 (100 x 42) The University of Pennsylvania has committed to the goal of achieving 100% carbon neutrality by 2042, a goal we call 100 x 42. The Operations and Maintenance Department, within the Division of Facilities and Real Estate Services (FRES), works with the Environmental Sustainability Advisory Committee's Utilities and Operations Subcommittee to identify and execute funded projects that meet this goal. Climate and Sustainability Action Plan 3.0 Penn’s Climate and Sustainability Action Plan 3.0 represents a vision for our university’s environmental future. Penn’s remarkable transformation into one of the world’s premier teaching and research institutions has been fueled by enormous growth in capabilities, means, and influence. The implementation of President Amy Gutmann’s Penn Compact puts the University in a strong position to address the environmental challenges ahead. Penn will continue to lead through inclusive climate change scholarship, innovative policy formation, and adoption of best practices to dramatically impact campus efficiency and reduce emissions. Through deliberate assessment, analysis, and planning. Penn is taking action to mitigate climate impacts, adapt to emerging environmental conditions, and prepare our university—and our students—to lead in a rapidly evolving world. The CSAP 3.0 recommends goals to: Expand the scope of sustainability research in Penn’s academic centers, and connect students to Penn’s abundant resources in this field; Continue to reduce carbon emissions and explore expanded use of renewable energy to mitigate the impacts of climate change; Embrace circular economy principles to reduce waste and single-use products; Make sustainable choices in transportation, purchasing, and business operations; and Inform, educate, and empower the Penn community to participate in Penn’s climate change and sustainability goals. Penn has made remarkable progress since the launch of its first Climate Action Plan in 2009. Engagement on environmental issues from students and faculty has grown dramatically. Accurate and timely reporting of key indicators by the Sustainability Office allows Penn’s leaders to make informed decisions: improving energy efficiency, reducing carbon emissions, streamlining workflow, managing costs, and prioritizing investment. Highlights since 2009 include: Expansion of scholarship, research, and course offerings on sustainability, including 8 new environmentally-focused academic centers; Building-related emissions reductions of over 27% - a result of on-campus conservation strategies plus a lower-carbon energy supply; Certification of Penn's main academic campus as a Level II Arboretum and the adoption of LEED Silver minimum standards; 28% waste diversion rate due to innovative purchasing and diversion strategies; Recognition of individuals and teams across Penn who develop innovative ideas to improve purchasing sustainability; Adoption of sustainable options by nearly 50%of all commuting subsidy recipients; and Continued engagement and education of the campus community through social media, newsletters, campaigns, and affinity groups. Penn’s CSAP 3.0 goals will test the ingenuity of the campus community as we continue to reduce our ecological footprint while prioritizing environmental health and resiliency. The focus is on Penn’s 100x42 carbon neutrality pledge—an ambition worthy of Penn’s commitment, and feasible given the University’s resources and expertise. The CSAP 3.0 will translate Penn's ambitions into action and our shared values into accomplishments. Use the links below to download the full CSAP3.0 Full Document 3.0 PDF (15MB, 42 pages) or the CSAP3.0 Executive Summary PDF (48KB 3 pages). If you are interested in joining one of our seven Environmental Sustainability Advisory Committee (ESAC) Subcommittees, please contact us at sustainability@upenn.edu. Penn Sustainability 3101 Walnut Street Philadelphia, PA 19104 sustainability@upenn.edu Social Links Our Committment Penn's 2042 Carbon Neutrality Goal Power Purchase Agreement: A 25-Year Commitment The Plan The University of Pennsylvania's Climate and Sustainability Action Plan Penn Sustainability ENewsletter Subscribe to our E-Newsletter » Program Highlights Student Eco-Reps Green Fund Staff and Faculty Eco-Reps Green Labs Footer Report Accessibility Issues and Get Help Disclaimer Copyright Information Privacy Policy © 2022 University of Pennsylvania Website Design and Programming: 4x3, LLC