Close Alert Message Alert Carolina! Normal The University is currently operating under normal conditionsLast updated at 6:00pmFriday, May 27th, 2022Skip to Main Content Top Level Navigation Discover Navigate Navigate About the UniversityDisplay Sub Menu for About the University About the University Alumni By the numbers Branding and Identity GuidelinesOpens in new site Carolina NextOpens in new site For the MediaOpens in new site Frequently Asked Questions History and Traditions Leadership Mission & Values Support the University UNC Social Media UNC SystemOpens in new site News and UpdatesDisplay Sub Menu for News and Updates News and Updates Academics Around Campus Arts & Humanities Athletics Events Calendar Global Health & Medicine Innovation & Entrepreneurship University News Research Working at CarolinaOpens in new site Campaign for CarolinaOpens in new site AcademicsDisplay Sub Menu for Academics Academics Academic Calendar and Registrar Academic Enhancements Continuing Education Opportunities Academic Departments Friday Center for Continuing Education Libraries Online and Distance EducationOpens in new site Programs and Curricula Summer School Admissions and Aid SchoolsDisplay Sub Menu for Schools Schools College of Arts & Sciences Adams School of Dentistry Education Eshelman School of Pharmacy Gillings School of Global Public Health Government Graduate School Information & Library Science Law Kenan-Flagler Business School Hussman School of Journalism and Media Medicine Nursing Social Work Come Visit Us Diversity and Inclusion Research Innovation and Economic Development Arts and Culture GlobalOpens in new site Life at CarolinaDisplay Sub Menu for Life at Carolina Life at Carolina About the Town Campus Recreation Carolina Housing Carolina UnionOpens in new site Community and Public Service Health & Wellness AthleticsDisplay Sub Menu for Athletics Athletics GoHeels.comOpens in new site Campus RecreationOpens in new site IntramuralsOpens in new site Sports ClubsOpens in new site UNC HealthOpens in new site Search The University of North Carolina at Chapel HillHide Main Navigation Menu Featured Diamond Heels claim ACC title Tar Heels cap undefeated season with NCAA title News and Updates Academics Around Campus Arts & Humanities Athletics Events Calendar Global Health & Medicine Innovation & Entrepreneurship University News Research Search PeopleOpens in new window PlacesOpens in new window Search UNC.edu Leadership A message from the chancellor: Living up to our ideals "A university must be a hopeful institution, committed to the idea that progress is possible if we stay true to our mission and devoted to our work. I know you share the vision with me, and I am grateful for your hard work for our University and our country." Posted by University Communications, Friday, May 20th, 2022 (Johnny Andrews/UNC-Chapel Hill) Share on Facebook Share on Twitter Share on Pinterest Share via Email Print Friendly Dear Carolina Community, Last Friday on a historic day for our University, I joined a joyful crowd in the Student Union auditorium to celebrate the renaming of two campus buildings for Henry Owl and Professor Hortense McClinton, heroes for bringing Carolina closer to its ideals. Our history is full of hard-won battles to make this University live up to the American creed of E Pluribus Unum — out of many, one. Yet over the weekend, the horrifying attack against innocent people in Buffalo, New York, alongside other shootings and acts of violence across the country, ripped at the heart of that ideal. We felt grief and loss, and the sense of awful repetition in these acts of hatred. As Dr. Leah Cox, Carolina’s Chief Diversity Officer, wrote earlier this week, “These horrendous acts of terror cause grief, anger and frustration, which can seem overwhelming. I encourage you to reach out to those in your life to check in on them and to ask how they are doing.” We are not powerless in these moments. At Carolina, there are researchers working every day to understand what drives radicalizing hatred and how we can stop it. There are social workers and psychologists working to understand trauma and how we can heal from it. There are historians and political scientists adding context to the challenges we confront. At its best, this University can be a beacon of truth and understanding in a world that needs much more of both. The most important thing we can do, in our daily lives and in the way we build community together, is demonstrate that people of different backgrounds and beliefs can live and work side by side. We can prove, every day, that a community of great diversity is a community of great strength. On Monday, May 23, at 5:30 p.m., the Office of Diversity and Inclusion and the Carolina Black Caucus will host a moment of reflection in the Pit, and I encourage you to join that event. A university must be a hopeful institution, committed to the idea that progress is possible if we stay true to our mission and devoted to our work. I know you share the vision with me, and I am grateful for your hard work for our University and our country. Sincerely, Kevin M. Guskiewicz Chancellor Categories Leadership Keep Reading UNC-Chapel Hill astronomers find hidden trove of massive black holes You May Also Like... Diamond Heels claim ACC title It was the team's first appearance in the title game since winning the title in 2019 and marks the eighth conference tournament win in program history. Tar Heels cap undefeated season with NCAA title The top-ranked Tar Heels finished the season 22-0, setting a school record for wins and becoming the first undefeated national champion since 2017. Comeback puts women’s lacrosse in championship game With a 15-14 win over Northwestern, the top-ranked Tar Heels improved to 21-0 on the season and will play for their third NCAA title. Display Previous Slide of Related Articles Carousel Display Next Slide of Related Articles Carousel A commitment to the Carolina family: Jenny Levy’s leadership Jenny Levy is only the fourth person to both play on and coach a national championship women's lacrosse team. Her overall record as the Tar Heels' head mentor has been exemplary, and on Sunday the team will play for its third national title. Filing flora More than 800,000 rare, extinct and native flora have been preserved by the North Carolina Botanical Garden’s Herbarium, where biodiversity is found in every filing cabinet. Pillar of Ground Services leads quietly Whether preparing for Spring Commencement or cleaning up debris in fall, Massey winner Mark Moon keeps Carolina’s campus beautiful and his colleagues safe. Display Previous Slide of Related Articles Carousel Display Next Slide of Related Articles Carousel May 06 – Sep 12 Health Insurance is Mandatory! Campus Health Services320 Emergency Room DriveChapel HillNC27599 | May 31 Carolina Public Humanities – Great Books Reading Group 10:00 a.m. - 12:00 p.m. Flyleaf Books752 Martin Luther King Jr. Blvd.Chapel HillNC27514 | $40 Jun 03 600 HIGHWAYMEN | A Thousand Ways (Part Three): An Assembly 8:00 p.m. - 9:30 p.m. CURRENT ArtSpace + Studio123 W Franklin StChapel Hill27516 | $15 Display Previous Slide of Events Carousel Display Next Slide of Events Carousel Accessibility Alert Carolina Alumni Connect Carolina Campus Map Contact Us Careers Departments A – Z Ethics and Integrity For the Media Libraries People Directory Privacy Statement UNC Student Stores The Well Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest © 2022 The University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill Tweet Share E-mail Tweet Share E-mail Tweet Share LinkedIn E-mail