Skip to the main content United States Air Force Academy Go to home page image/svg+xml Page 1 Go to home page Link to home page Virtual Tour Radio Parents Graduates Visitors Prep School Graduation Newsletter Apply Today Menu Search the Site Academics A rigorous academic program that balances STEM with the arts and humanities. Academics Core Curriculum Departments Majors & Minors Library Academic Calendar Registrar Faculty and Staff Directory Academic Success Center Request a Transcript Investigator or Verifications Admissions News Research Learn more about cutting-edge research that supports the Air Force and our global society. Research Office of Research Research Centers Cadet Summer Research STEM Outreach Future Conflict Cadet Life Take a peek into the life of a United States Air Force Academy cadet. Cadet Life Dormitories & Dining Cadet Clubs Cadet Support Services Day in the Life Frequently Asked Questions Military With a focus on innovation and adaptation to the changing world of warfare, we’re setting higher expectations for what it means to serve. Military Basic Cadet Training Squadrons Airmanship Military Careers Wings of Blue Athletics About There’s no limit to what you will achieve here. Academics. Athletics. Military training. We deliver the future leaders of modern warfare. About Leadership Character Development History Awards Traditions Educational Innovation More Virtual Tour Radio Parents Graduates Visitors Prep School Graduation Newsletter Apply Today Acceptance Day Acceptance Day occurs once the basic cadet passes Basic Cadet Training (BCT). This takes place prior to the start of the academic year and is celebrated with a parade. During the ceremony, basic cadets are accepted into the Cadet Wing, become fourth-class cadets (freshman) and are placed into their academic year Cadet Squadron. Older Basic Cadet Training (BCT) ends Share Newer Armed Forces Week Concert General Audience Vietnamese citizen takes part in DOD, Air Force Academy international... Continue Reading this article General Audience ‘Power of partnerships’: SECDEF gives commencement speech to AF Academy’s... Continue Reading this article General Audience, Space The Breakdown: Stats on the Air Force Academy’s class of... Continue Reading this article Graduates, Space ‘Two services, one Academy’: AF Academy, Space Force teamwork make... Continue Reading this article General Audience, Parents, Prep School 171 cadet-candidates graduate from Academy’s prep school Continue Reading this article Research, Space Innovation at the Academy: It’s like riding a bike Continue Reading this article General Audience, Graduates, Parents, Research Democratizing innovation: Cadet says Air Force Academy research is for... Continue Reading this article General Audience Cadets experience operational Air Force at Cannon ABF, NM Continue Reading this article ACADEMICS Departments Majors & Minors Library Academic Calendar Research Centers Faculty and Staff Directory CAMPUS Events Employment Emergency Weather Helping Agencies Apps COMMUNITY AF CyberWorx USAFA Band Force Support Wings of Blue VISIT Visitors Campus Map Facilities Cadet Chapel Planetarium Base Access Contact Us Social Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Flickr © 2022 United States Air Force Academy, All Rights Reserved The appearance of hyperlinks does not constitute endorsement by the Department of the Air Force or the information, products, or services contained therein. For other than authorized activities such as military exchanges and morale, welfare and recreation sites, the Department of the Air Force does not exercise any editorial control over the information you may find at these locations. Such links provided are consistent with the stated purpose of this DOD Web site.