Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Morrissey College of Arts and Sciences Morrissey College Information For Current Students Faculty Search BC.edu Links Arts Council Menu Main Nav Arts Council Arts Council Back Back Close About Overview Contact History News & Notes Arts Council Awards Alumni Arts Circle Events and Initiatives Overview Arts Festival Arts Festival 2020 Exhibition: Out of the Studios Salmanowitz Social Justice Film Screenings Fairy Tales for Free Literary Arts Arts and Social Justice Careers in the Arts Gallery 203 Student Arts Coalition Week of Dance Get Involved Close Directory A to Z Listing Search Morrissey College Search BC.edu Find pages or people Search Close Close Apply Visit Give Current Students Faculty BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close Events and Initiatives Arts Festival The last weekend in April VOLUNTEER AT THE ARTS FEST ARTS FESTIVAL 2022 Every year, the Boston College Arts Festival brings the Boston College and surrounding communities together to celebrate the arts. In 2022, the 24th annual Arts Festival will once again invite the community to experience the variety of arts at Boston College! With over 16,000 visitors from Boston College and the surrounding community coming in attendance, the Arts Festival never fails to be one of the most vibrant and exciting events at Boston College. Students have the added bonus of relieving end-of-semester stress, while members of the surrounding communities are given the opportunity to delight in all forms of art, from the laugh-out-loud humor offered by comedy groups, to the transcendent beauty of the many dance ensembles, to the boldness of the studio art students' work. Highlighted at the spring's festival are the "BC's Best" competition, an Art Walk, and Dancing with bOp!. Other annual features include children's activities, literary readings, alumni events, student art work for sale, multi-cultural dance performances, and expanded hours at the McMullen Museum. Special guests at the festival have included Tracey Wigfield '05, Nick Scandalios '89, Chris Doyle '81, Anne Garefino '81, Robert Polito '73, Chuck Hogan '89 and Amy Poehler '93. Arts Fest at a Glance 1999 First Arts Festival 1440 Artist Participation 68 Events 210 Volunteers Arts Festival Gallery 203 In the News Arts Festival reimagined, virtually The 22nd annual celebration of the arts will be held online April 23-25. Celebrating the arts BC Arts Festival highlights creative work from across campus; award-winning alumni poet C. Dale Young is this year's guest honoree. 'The Human Element' New film by noted environmental photographer James Balog '74 explores the impact of humans on nature. 'Art matters deeply' Professor of Art History Jeffery Howe reflects on four decades of arts evolution at the Heights. Individually and together A Q&A with BC's inaugural Calderwood Professors in Islamic and Asian Art, retiring this year. Artful Behind the scenes at BC's 20th festival celebrating student creators and performers. Arts Fest 2018 The Boston College Arts Festival marks its 20th year with campus-wide events April 26-28. Celebrating the BC arts scene Every year in April, the Boston College Arts Festival celebrates our rich campus arts scene. 19th annual Arts Festival More than 80 events, and an appearance by Emmy-winning TV exec Tracey Wigfield ’05. Alumni, Faculty & Student Recognition Each year, the Boston College Arts Council recognizes an alumnus, a faculty member, and several students for their accomplishments and contributions to the arts in various disciplines. Alumni and faculty award recipients serve as role models, inspiring and guiding developing young artists in the Boston College community. The award recipients participate in programming at our annual campus-wide Arts Festival and interact in small-group settings with students in their fields. Student award recipients in sophomore, junior or senior years are recognized for their creativity and accomplishments, as well as for specific projects. Arts Council Awards Children's Activities Arts 'n' Crafts Kids love these hands-on activities facilitated by BC volunteers. Activities vary each year, but have included making tambourines, decorating masks and bookmarks, making pipecleaner 'monsters', sidewalk chalk, and decorating a pot to plant a seed in. Children's Theatre Boston College theatre classes and other campus ensembles have presented live performances for children to enjoy. Previous performances have included The Little Mermaid, "From Film to Broadway–The Songs of Disney," Shrek! The Musical, Peter and the Wolf, Nick of Time, The Princess Bride, Beauty and the Beast, and more. Interactive activities Various student groups that perform at Arts Fest have lead 20-30 minute activities to engage kids in what they are passionate about. Children have been able to participate in mini-sessions on dance, singing, and improvisation. Every year the children and parents have loved being introduced to new styles of performance and art. Instrument Petting Zoo The Boston College Marching Band takes over green spaces to give children an opportunity to touch, feel, and play the instruments. This experience is for kids of all ages! Chamber Music Children's Concert Boston College's Chamber Music Society performs beloved children's music and theater. Directions to the Arts Festival The 2022 Arts Festival is open to the public. Getting to the Arts Festival by subway: Take the B branch of the MBTA Green Line to the Boston College terminus. Cross to the other side of Commonwealth Avenue and turn right. Walk up the hill (west) on Commonwealth Avenue to the main gate. By car: Boston College's main campus is located on Commonwealth Avenue (Route 30) in Chestnut Hill, just west of the Boston-Newton line. From points north and south: Take Interstate 95 (Route 128) to Exit 24 (Route 30). Proceed east on Route 30, also known as Commonwealth Avenue, and follow for about five miles to Boston College. From points west: Take the Massachusetts Turnpike (Route 90) to Exit 17. At the first set of lights after the exit ramp, take a right onto Centre Street. Follow Centre Street to the fourth set of lights, and turn left onto Commonwealth Avenue. Follow Commonwealth Avenue 1-1/2 miles to Boston College. From downtown Boston: Take the Massachusetts Turnpike (Route 90) to Exit 17. Take a left over the bridge after passing the Sheraton Tara Hotel. Take the first right onto Centre Street. Follow Centre Street to the fourth 1-1/2 miles to Boston College. Parking Information Saturday, April 30 parking: There is a road race on campus until ~11am. Please park in the Beacon St Garage or along Beacon St in legal parking. One hour parking is permitted, as posted, on Commonwealth Avenue. Weekend parking at Boston College is $10 per every 12 hours from 5:00 p.m. on Friday until Monday at 2:00 a.m. Visitor “Pay for Parking” is in effect from 2:00 a.m. Monday through 5:00 p.m. Friday. The first twenty minutes are FREE, and visitors pay $6.00 per hour after that, with a $28.00 daily maximum. Each garage has a pay station. Payments may be made with cash, Visa or MasterCard. Additional Parking Information To enter Lower Campus from Commonwealth Avenue from Downtown Boston: Turn left at the light just before the Boston College Green Line T Stop. (The T stop and Lake Street will be on your right; St. Ignatius Church will be ahead on your left.) Take the next right, towards the security guard station. Follow this road to the parking garage, which will be on your right. After parking, exit on foot from the top of the garage (level 7) and turn left. The main tent of the Arts Festival is straight ahead on the plaza in front of O'Neill Library. To enter Lower Campus from points west: Continue past the main gates of the college and down the hill to the light (The T Stop and Lake Street will be on your left; St. Ignatius Church will be on your right.) Turn right at the light. Take the next right, towards the security guard station. Follow this road to the parking garage, which will be on your right. After parking exit on foot from the top of the garage (level 7) and turn left. The main tent of the Arts Festival is straight ahead on the plaza in front of O'Neill Library. Click here for direction in PDF format. Parking for People with Disabilities or Mobility Issues Boston College Transportation and Parking Website For Parents The 2022 Arts Festival is open to the public. What Parents Need to Know Activities are designed for elementary aged children and preschoolers will certainly be able to participate. Older children are sure to be entertained by the dance and a cappella showcases, as well as other performances and art installations. All activities are free. Food can be purchased at the festival. Bathroom facilities are located in Stokes Hall, Gasson Hall, Devlin Hall, and the O'Neill Library – the four buildings surrounding Stokes Lawn and O'Neill Plaza. In the event of inclement weather, all outdoor activities will still take place at an indoor location. Rain or shine, we always have fun. Once you get to the festival site, everything is very close and stroller-accessible. Depending on where you park, there may be 5-10 minutes of walking. With small children, we recommend parking in the Commonwealth Avenue garage and taking the elevator to the 7th floor. From there, the walk is about three minutes. Children’s Activities run from 11am to 2:00 p.m. on the Saturday of the festival. Each crafts activity is set up separately, so you can choose to do some and not others - depending on the amount of time you want to spend. Check the schedule to find out when our Children’s programming is happening. There are continuing performances from 11 to 3:30 p.m. in the main tent and the art exhibitions can be explored all day. Arts Festival Highlights Coverage of the 2018 Arts Festival, the 20th Anniversary year. Here, Elizabeth McGowan '18 performs during the Singer / Songwriter competition. Elizabeth did win in her category. Coverage of BC's Cultural Showcase series of performances showing a range of cultural expression embedded in the BC community. Here, PATU (Presenting Africa To You) performs. Coverage of BC's Cultural Showcase series of performances showing a range of cultural expression embedded in the BC community. Hellenic Culture Club performers photographed for the BCM Spring '18 issue. Coverage of BC's Cultural Showcase series of performances showing a range of cultural expression embedded in the BC community. Here, Arab Culture Club representatives address the audience with a prayer in both Arabic and English. BC bOp! performance inside the O'Neil tent during the 2018 Arts Festival Inside the BC Studio with Natalia Majluf. Art History Professor and McMullen Museum Director, Nancy Netzer interviews Natalia Majluf '88 during the 2018 Arts Festival Coverage of Sam Biondollilo at the lighting table for the Dancing With bOp performance, and coverage of On Tap performing with bOp. Photographed for the Spring 2018 issue of BCM. Sam at the lighting table. Coverage of Sam Biondollilo at the lighting table for the Dancing With bOp performance, and coverage of On Tap performing with bOp. Photographed for the Spring 2018 issue of BCM. Here Full Swing performs. Coverage of the 2018 Arts Festival, the 20th Anniversary year. Coverage of the 2018 Arts Festival, the 20th Anniversary year. Coverage of the 2018 Arts Festival, the 20th Anniversary year. Coverage of the 2018 Arts Festival, the 20th Anniversary year. Here, Black Experience in America Through Song performs. (BEATS) Coverage of the 2018 Arts Festival, the 20th Anniversary year. Here, the BC Chorale under the direction of John Finney performs. Coverage of the 2018 Arts Festival, the 20th Anniversary year. Here, Funky Giant performs during the Battle of the Bands finals. Coverage of Battle of the Bands final competition as part of the Arts Festival events. Here Rapper Phenom V and the band Xtreme Soundz performs. Coverage of Battle of the Bands final competition as part of the Arts Festival events. Shady Lady performs. Coverage of Arts Festival 2018 events on the Festival's 20th Anniversary. Here, the Dynamics perform. Coverage of Arts Festival 2018 events on the Festival's 20th Anniversary. Coverage of the 2018 Arts Festival, the 20th Anniversary year. Here, Black Experience in America Through Song performs. (BEATS) Coverage of the 2018 Arts Festival, the 20th Anniversary year. Here, Elizabeth McGowan '18 performs during the Singer / Songwriter competition. Elizabeth did win in her category. Coverage of BC's Cultural Showcase series of performances showing a range of cultural expression embedded in the BC community. Here, PATU (Presenting Africa To You) performs. Coverage of BC's Cultural Showcase series of performances showing a range of cultural expression embedded in the BC community. Hellenic Culture Club performers photographed for the BCM Spring '18 issue. Coverage of BC's Cultural Showcase series of performances showing a range of cultural expression embedded in the BC community. Here, Arab Culture Club representatives address the audience with a prayer in both Arabic and English. BC bOp! performance inside the O'Neil tent during the 2018 Arts Festival Inside the BC Studio with Natalia Majluf. Art History Professor and McMullen Museum Director, Nancy Netzer interviews Natalia Majluf '88 during the 2018 Arts Festival Coverage of Sam Biondollilo at the lighting table for the Dancing With bOp performance, and coverage of On Tap performing with bOp. Photographed for the Spring 2018 issue of BCM. Sam at the lighting table. Coverage of Sam Biondollilo at the lighting table for the Dancing With bOp performance, and coverage of On Tap performing with bOp. Photographed for the Spring 2018 issue of BCM. Here Full Swing performs. Coverage of the 2018 Arts Festival, the 20th Anniversary year. Coverage of the 2018 Arts Festival, the 20th Anniversary year. Coverage of the 2018 Arts Festival, the 20th Anniversary year. Coverage of the 2018 Arts Festival, the 20th Anniversary year. Here, Black Experience in America Through Song performs. (BEATS) Coverage of the 2018 Arts Festival, the 20th Anniversary year. Here, the BC Chorale under the direction of John Finney performs. Coverage of the 2018 Arts Festival, the 20th Anniversary year. Here, Funky Giant performs during the Battle of the Bands finals. Coverage of Battle of the Bands final competition as part of the Arts Festival events. Here Rapper Phenom V and the band Xtreme Soundz performs. Coverage of Battle of the Bands final competition as part of the Arts Festival events. Shady Lady performs. Coverage of Arts Festival 2018 events on the Festival's 20th Anniversary. Here, the Dynamics perform. Coverage of Arts Festival 2018 events on the Festival's 20th Anniversary. Coverage of the 2018 Arts Festival, the 20th Anniversary year. Here, Black Experience in America Through Song performs. (BEATS) Coverage of the 2018 Arts Festival, the 20th Anniversary year. Here, Elizabeth McGowan '18 performs during the Singer / Songwriter competition. Elizabeth did win in her category. Coverage of BC's Cultural Showcase series of performances showing a range of cultural expression embedded in the BC community. Here, PATU (Presenting Africa To You) performs. Coverage of BC's Cultural Showcase series of performances showing a range of cultural expression embedded in the BC community. Hellenic Culture Club performers photographed for the BCM Spring '18 issue. Coverage of BC's Cultural Showcase series of performances showing a range of cultural expression embedded in the BC community. Here, Arab Culture Club representatives address the audience with a prayer in both Arabic and English. BC bOp! performance inside the O'Neil tent during the 2018 Arts Festival Inside the BC Studio with Natalia Majluf. Art History Professor and McMullen Museum Director, Nancy Netzer interviews Natalia Majluf '88 during the 2018 Arts Festival Coverage of Sam Biondollilo at the lighting table for the Dancing With bOp performance, and coverage of On Tap performing with bOp. Photographed for the Spring 2018 issue of BCM. Sam at the lighting table. Coverage of Sam Biondollilo at the lighting table for the Dancing With bOp performance, and coverage of On Tap performing with bOp. Photographed for the Spring 2018 issue of BCM. Here Full Swing performs. Coverage of the 2018 Arts Festival, the 20th Anniversary year. Coverage of the 2018 Arts Festival, the 20th Anniversary year. Coverage of the 2018 Arts Festival, the 20th Anniversary year. Coverage of the 2018 Arts Festival, the 20th Anniversary year. Here, Black Experience in America Through Song performs. (BEATS) Coverage of the 2018 Arts Festival, the 20th Anniversary year. Here, the BC Chorale under the direction of John Finney performs. Coverage of the 2018 Arts Festival, the 20th Anniversary year. Here, Funky Giant performs during the Battle of the Bands finals. Coverage of Battle of the Bands final competition as part of the Arts Festival events. Here Rapper Phenom V and the band Xtreme Soundz performs. Coverage of Battle of the Bands final competition as part of the Arts Festival events. Shady Lady performs. Coverage of Arts Festival 2018 events on the Festival's 20th Anniversary. Here, the Dynamics perform. Coverage of Arts Festival 2018 events on the Festival's 20th Anniversary. Coverage of the 2018 Arts Festival, the 20th Anniversary year. Here, Black Experience in America Through Song performs. (BEATS) « » Back To Top Back To Top Arts Council Office of the Arts Council Rubenstein Hall, Office 4 617-552-6500 arts@bc.edu Facebook Instagram Morrissey College of Arts and Sciences Gasson Hall 140 Commonwealth Avenue Chestnut Hill, MA 02467 About Undergraduate Graduate Faculty & Research Departments Contact Departments Art, Art History, and Film Biology Chemistry Classical Studies Communication Computer Science Earth and Environmental Sciences Economics Engineering English German Studies History Mathematics Music Philosophy Physics Political Science Psychology Romance Languages and Literatures Slavic & Eastern Languages and Literatures Sociology Theatre Theology Apply Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College