Search | Directories | Reference Tools UW Home > Discover UW > Student Guide UW Bothell Course Descriptions UW Tacoma Course Descriptions Glossary SCHOOL OF PHARMACY DEPARTMENT OF PHARMACY PHARMACY REGULATORY AFFAIRS Detailed course offerings (Time Schedule) are available for Spring Quarter 2022 Summer Quarter 2022 Autumn Quarter 2022 PHRMRA 524 Introduction to Clinical Trials (3) D. Hammond, E. Hayashi Introduces the major concepts under which clinical trials are designed to run. Focuses on the phases of clinical trials, the role of the Food and Drug Administration, Institutional Review Boards, the Code of Federal Regulations and ethical principles. Addresses study design and statistical concepts. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: PHRMRA 524 PHRMRA 525 Implementation and Conduct of Clinical Trials (3) D. Hammond, E. Hayashi Outlines the work of carrying out a clinical trial including the complex work of study initiation, issues of site and data managements, preparation of the final report and study close out, as well as the details that control the study conduct. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: PHRMRA 525 PHRMRA 526 Project Management and the Business of Clinical Trials (3) D. Hammond, E. Hayashi Addresses the business dimension of clinical trials, including the principles of project management, planning, analysis, contingency and follow-up within the context of clinical trials that involve a large number of tasks and people responsible for parts of the overall study. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: PHRMRA 526 PHRMRA 527 International Regulatory Affairs (3) Develops an understanding of international differences in the regulation of design, manufacture, and post-marketing surveillance of medical products relative to U.S. Food and Drug Administration requirements. Prerequisite: PHARM 504. Instructors: Hammond Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: PHRMRA 527 PHRMRA 528 Medical Risk Analysis and Management (3) Karp Examines the principles and application of risk management methods in the design, manufacture, and marketing of medical products. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: PHRMRA 528 PHRMRA 536 Skills for the Regulatory Affairs Professional (2) Rose Covers essential skills in regulatory affairs and includes an overview of local medical products companies. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: PHRMRA 536 PHRMRA 545 Statistical Topics for Biomedical Regulatory Affairs Professionals (3) Applies statistical techniques to meet medical product regulatory commitments including biosimilars, product comparability, design and continued process verification. Prerequisite: introductory statistics. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: PHRMRA 545 PHRMRA 546 Technical Writing for the Medical Products Industries (3) Teal Presents up-to-date information and strategies for effective technical communication within the medical product industries. Addresses the appropriate and correct use of the English language, information design, and the use of computer technology in producing professional documents. Emphasizes communicating technical information to a variety of stakeholders. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: PHRMRA 546 PHRMRA 548 Biomedical Regulatory Affairs Practicum ([1-9]-, max. 9) Feagin Provides a practical experience to ensure that participants are able to shepherd new medical products (drug, device, biologic) through regulatory, clinical, and quality assurance aspects. Includes a project and final report. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: PHRMRA 548 PHRMRA 550 Advanced Technical Writing for Biomedical Regulatory Affairs (2) Further examines communications with attention to best written practices. Provides an intensive review of common editing and advanced strategies for crafting highly reliable and effective documentation. Prerequisite: PHRMRA 546 or permission of instructor. Instructors: Teal Credit/no-credit only. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: PHRMRA 550 PHRMRA 554 Advanced Medical Products Regulation I (2) Hammond Provides an in-depth exploration of regulatory issues primarily related to non-clinical and clinical aspects of medical product development. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: PHRMRA 554 PHRMRA 560 Short Course in Multinational Biomedical Regulatory Affairs (2, max. 30) Hazlet Presents three medical products registration countries or groupings (for instance, European Union, World Health Organization). Locale based on program impact, unique features, or recent or controversial regulatory issues. View course details in MyPlan: PHRMRA 560 PHRMRA 595 Special Topics in Regulation (1-6, max. 24) Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: PHRMRA 595 Office of the University Registrar registrar@uw.edu Modified: May 30, 2022