Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. Office of the Bursar Bursar right arrow down arrow Tuition & Fees right arrow down arrow Tuition Guarantee Policy Graduate & Professional Students Non-Resident Surcharges Program Fees Special Course Fees Student Health Insurance How Fees Are Determined Prior Year Tuition & Fees right arrow down arrow Academic Year 2021-2022 right arrow down arrow Graduate & Professional Students Non-Resident Surcharges Program Fees Special Course Fees Student Health Insurance Academic Year 2020-2021 right arrow down arrow Graduate & Professional Students Non-Resident Surcharges Program Fees Special Course Fees Student Health Insurance Academic Year 2019-2020 right arrow down arrow Graduate & Professional Students Non-Resident Surcharges Program Fees Special Course Fees Student Health Insurance Paying your Bill right arrow down arrow Payment Options Tuition Payment Plan International Payments Scholarship Payments Billed Sponsored Aid Veterans Benefits Refunds right arrow down arrow Direct Deposit Enrollment Refund Frequently Asked Questions Tuition Refund Appeals right arrow down arrow Tuition Refund Appeals Process Frequently Asked Questions Tuition Insurance Past Due Accounts right arrow down arrow Collections Payment Plans Collections Timeline Loans right arrow down arrow Short Term Loan Loan Repayment Student Loan FAQ's Tax Forms & Disclosures right arrow down arrow Form 1098-T right arrow down arrow Detailed Explantion of the 1098-T Form 1098-T FAQs Form 1042-S Banking Contract Disclosure Contact Us right arrow down arrow The Team Bursar Contact Form Home » About UC » Office of the Bursar » Refunds » Tuition Refund Appeals Process » Frequently Asked Questions Set Navigation title in component Direct Deposit Enrollment Refund Frequently Asked Questions Tuition Refund Appeals Tuition Refund Appeals Process Frequently Asked Questions Tuition Insurance Frequently Asked Questions Why do I have to turn in documentation? right arrow down arrow Students are expected to make enrollment decisions by the published refund deadlines. The Tuition Refund Application process is an exception process designed for students with documented circumstances that occurred that prevented them from doing so. All applications must be accompanied by documentation supporting the substance of the request. Why does the process take so long? right arrow down arrow The Tuition Refund Appeals Committee consists of UC staff who serve in various roles across campus. It meets twice monthly to discuss applications and appeals. Applications are reviewed in the order in which they are received. Can I meet with the committee in person? right arrow down arrow Because the committee is not able to meet with all students requesting refunds, they will not schedule individual meetings with students. All committee decisions will be based on the application and documentation submitted in the application and appeal process. If you need assistance with your application or are unsure what documentation would help your application, contact us at TuitionRefundAppeals@ucmail.uc.edu Office of the Bursar University of Cincinnati 2618 McMicken Circle 500 University Pavilion Cincinnati, OH 45221 UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati Office of the Bursar University of Cincinnati 2618 McMicken Circle 500 University Pavilion Cincinnati, OH 45221 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top