Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Department of Earth Sciences About Programs Faculty Research Student Resources Career Path Make a Gift Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact Earth Sciences Programs Undergraduate Students About the BA Minor Courses Advising 4 year sequence Graduate Students About the ProgramCertificatesCoursesApplication ProcessGraduate CoordinatorProspective Students GIS Certificate AboutFrequently Asked QuestionsSAGE LaboratoryTestimonials Minor in Earth Sciences Take Action Apply Now! News and Colloquium Field Activities Contact Us Home Earth Sciences Earth Sciences Programs Undergraduate Bachelor of Arts in Earth Sciences The Department of Earth Sciences offers a Bachelor of Arts program at the undergraduate level with several concentration tracks. Our undergraduate program provides the perfect spring board for job opportunities in education, government, earth and environmental professions, and earth science research, as well as preparing the student for graduate school. Professional job positions in earth sciences generally require at least a master's degree for full advancement opportunities. Program Objectives Program objectives are: to be able to demonstrate an understanding of the fundamental principles, concepts and knowledge of the discipline Earth Sciences to have knowledge of the effects of natural processes and human activity on the environment to be able to address, solve and communicate geographic problems using quantitative methods and geographic techniques to be able to critically examine community problems and develop coherent solutions to urban and other land management issues to demonstrate effective written, oral and visual communication skills General Education Requirements See Graduation from the University for the University General Education Program requirements. College & Degree Requirements The College and Bachelor of Arts requirements are in addition to the University General Education Program requirements. Earth Sciences Major (B.A.) The Major (35-49 HOURS) 1. Core Requirements (7 hours): All students must take ESCI 1020 (4) and ESCI 4515 (3). In addition, all students must fulfill the requirements for one of the following concentrations: 2. Concentration (28-42 hours): a. Geoarchaeology (36 hours): ESCI 1103 (4), 2301 (4), 4202 (4), 4270, 4301, 4325, 4350, 4352, 4521; and six upper division hours as approved by advisor. b. Geography (28 hours): ESCI 1010 (4), or 1050 (4), or 1103 (4); ESCI 1401 or 3430; ESCI 1301 or 4307; ESCI 4521; and 15 additional upper division hours as approved by advisor. c. Geology (41-42 hours): ESCI 1040 (4), 1050 (4), 3311 (4), 3712 (4), 4512 (4), 4622 (6); CHEM 1110/1111 (4) (taken as B.A. degree requirement) and CHEM 1120/1121 (4); PHYS 2010/2011 (4) and 2020/2021 (4); MATH 1910 (4) (taken as University General Education requirement); and 3-4 ESCI upper division hours approved by advisor. Electives Electives may be chosen to bring the total number of hours to 120. Minor Completion of 20 semester hours in earth sciences courses, at least 9 of which must be upper division hours. Course Descriptions Undergraduate Courses Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 2/16/22 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.