Skip to main content Skip to primary site menu Search form Search Explore Brown University Search Global Navigation Learn More About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life Find A to Z Index People Directory Information for Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Top Destinations Global Brown Watson Institute Graduate School Alpert Medical School School of Public Health School of Engineering Data Science Initiative Home About Academics Research Resources News Events Fair February Data Science Research Seminar Series Faculty for Faculty Research Talks Decoding Pandemic Data: A Series of Interactive Seminars Past Events Site Navigation Home About Executive Committee Faculty Postdocs Staff Campus Advisory Board Affiliated Faculty Jobs @ DSI Academics Master's Degree Apply Curriculum Student Experience Career Outcomes FAQ Doctoral Certificate Fifth-Year Master's Degree Certificate in Data Fluency Data Science Fellows Research DSI-Funded Research Data Science Research @ Brown TRIPODS Programs People Resources Activities & Opportunities Learning Resources Data Science and COVID-19 News Events Fair February Data Science Research Seminar Series Faculty for Faculty Research Talks Decoding Pandemic Data: A Series of Interactive Seminars Past Events Past Events May 13 12:00pm - 1:00pm Data Visualization Seminar Zoom Join Advance-CTR, S4 and the Brown Library for part two in this series exploring data visualization, its methodology, and application in biomedicine and health. The purpose of this series is to serve as a data visualization introduction for clinicians and others who may be interested in using these tools and methods in their research. “What GIS & Spatial Analysis can do for Health Research” Guixing Wei, Senior GIS Developer and Spatial Scientist The Spatial Structures in the Social Sciences (S4) Population Studies & Training Center Dr. Wei will provide an introduction to GIS, mapping and spatial epidemiology and their applications in health research. A brief survey of common GIS techniques in health applications will be presented to showcase how health studies can benefit from spatial perspectives and geo-analytics. During the talk, Wei will also introduce S4 and Brown’s GIS infrastructure and their supportive resources to the Brown community. Data Visualization Seminar Biology, Medicine, Public Health, Teaching & Learning May 11 2:30pm - 3:30pm Special Seminar - “Reconsidering harbingers of dementia: Is vascular brain injury a part of Alzheimer’s disease?” Smith-Buonanno Hall Adam Brickman, Ph.D. Professor of Neuropsychology Taub Institute for Research on Alzheimer’s Disease and the Aging Brain Department of Neurology Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons Columbia University Please note that this is a hybrid seminar in Smith-Buonanno room 106 and through Zoom (please email [email protected] for the link information). Bio: Adam M. Brickman, PhD is a tenured Professor in the Taub Institute for Research on Alzheimer’s Disease and the Aging Brain and in the Department of Neurology at Columbia University. Dr. Brickman’s work primarily focuses on understanding the vascular contributions to cognitive aging and Alzheimer’s disease by integrating neuroimaging techniques with observational neuropsychological studies, basic neuroscience, and epidemiological approaches. He is also interested understanding sources of racial and ethnic disparity in Alzheimer’ disease, developing interventions for cognitive decline in aging, and designing neuropsychological instruments to assess cognition in older adults. Dr. Brickman leads neuroimaging efforts in several large community- and clinic-based observational studies, such as the Washington Heights Inwood Columbia Aging Project (WHICAP), the WHICAP Offspring Study, the Alzheimer’s Biomarker Consortium-Down Syndrome (ABC-DS), and others. Dr. Brickman is the Core Leader of the Columbia Alzheimer’s Disease Research Center Biomarker Core, which integrates fluid and neuroimaging based biomarkers into studies of Alzheimer’s disease and related disorder. Dr. Brickman completed his undergraduate studies in neuroscience and psychology at Oberlin College, his PhD in psychology/neuropsychology at the City University of New York, his clinical internship at Brown Medical School, and his postdoctoral training at Columbia University, where he has been on faculty since 2007. Special Seminar - “Reconsidering harbingers of dementia: Is vascular brain injury a part of Alzheimer’s disease?” Biology, Medicine, Public Health, Research May 10 11:00am - 12:00pm NIH Policy for Data Management and Sharing Virtual The new NIH Policy on Data Management and Sharing goes into effect on January 25, 2023. How are the departments at Brown that support researchers preparing for this new policy? How should researchers prepare for changes in proposal development, data collection, and depositing data? How will the policy impact research, including new pre- and post-award engagement with NIH repositories, and updated timelines for data preparation and depositing? In this session, we will give an overview of the new policy and Brown resources such as templates to help researchers with writing plans, tools for managing their data throughout a project, and sharing data during and after a project closes. Discussion led by Arielle Nitenson and Andrew Creamer. NIH Policy for Data Management and Sharing Biology, Medicine, Public Health, Research May 9 12:00pm - 1:00pm Statistics Seminar | Yoav Benjamini, Ph.D. 121 South Main Street Dr. Yoav Benjamini, Professor Emeritus of Applied Statistics at the Department of Statistics and Operations Research at Tel Aviv University, and a member of the Sagol School of Neuroscience and the Edmond Safra Bioinformatics Center. Replicability Issues in Medical Research: Science and Politics Selective inference and irrelevant variability are two statistical issues hindering replicability across science. I will review the first in the context of secondary endpoint analysis in clinical and epidemiological research. This leads us to discuss the debate about p-values and statistical significance and the politics involved. I will present practical approaches that seem to accommodate the concerns of NEJM editors, as reflected in their guidelines. I shall discuss more briefly the issue of addressing the relevant variability, in the context of in preclinical animal experiments, and the implication of this work about assessing replicability in meta-analysis. Major parts of this work done jointly with Iman Jaljuli, Orestis Panagiotou and Ruth Heller. Dr. Yoav Benjamini Yoav Benjamini is Professor Emeritus of Applied Statistics at the Department of Statistics and Operations Research at Tel Aviv University, and a member of the Sagol School of Neuroscience and the Edmond Safra Bioinformatics Center. He was a visiting professor at the University of Pennsylvania, University of California, Berkeley, Stanford, and Columbia Universities. Yoav is a co-developer of the widely used False Discovery Rate concept and methodology. His other research topics are replicability and reproducibility in science and data mining, with applications in Biostatistics, Bioinformatics, Animal Behavior, Geography, Meteorology, Brain Imaging and Health Informatics. He is a member of the Israel Academy of Sciences and Humanities and the US National Academy of Sciences, and received the Israel Prize in Statistics and Economics and the Founders of Statistics Prize of the International Statistical Institute. Statistics Seminar | Yoav Benjamini, Ph.D. Biology, Medicine, Public Health, Graduate School, Postgraduate Education, Mathematics, Technology, Engineering, Research, Training, Professional Development May 5 11:00am - 2:00pm Earth Lab GIS Conference 2022 Institute at Brown for Environment & Society (IBES) The DEEPS Introduction to Geographic Information Systems Class is hosting a special “mini-conference” poster session. Join us in viewing the students’ projects highlighting their skills in geospatial analysis. Light refreshments will be provided. Earth Lab GIS Conference 2022 Physical & Earth Sciences May 2 4:00pm - 6:00pm Rajesh Veeraraghavan Book Adda — Patching Development: Information Politics and Social Change in India Watson Institute for International and Public Affairs Commentators: Rachel Brulé, Boston University Zehra Hashmi, Brown University Robert Jenkins, Hunter College, CUNY Vijayendra Rao, The World Bank Rajesh Veeraraghavan is an Assistant Professor of Science Technology and International Affairs (STIA) Program at Georgetown University’s School of Foreign Service. His work focuses on the intersection of data, technology and governance. I am interested in the politics of data and technology, inequality and the role of data and technology to improve lives of the marginalized. Previously, Veeraraghavan was a postdoctoral fellow at the Watson Institute of International and Public Affairs at Brown University and was previously a Fellow at the Berkman Center at Harvard University. He consulted for the Gates Foundation and Open Society Foundation. About the Book: How can development programs deliver benefits to marginalized citizens in ways that expand their rights and freedoms? Political will and good policy design are critical but often insufficient due to resistance from entrenched local power systems. InPatching Development, Rajesh Veeraraghavan presents an ethnography of one of the largest development programs in the world, the Indian National Rural Employment Guarantee Act (NREGA), and examines NREGA’s implementation in the South Indian state of Andhra Pradesh. He finds that the local system of power is extremely difficult to transform, not because of inertia, but because of coercive counter strategy from actors at the last mile and their ability to exploit information asymmetries. Upper-level NREGA bureaucrats in Andhra Pradesh do not possess the capacity to change the power axis through direct confrontation with local elites, but instead have relied on a continuous series of responses that react to local implementation and information, a process of patching development. “Patching development” is a top-down, fine-grained, iterative socio-technical process that makes local information about implementation visible through technology and enlists participation from marginalized citizens through social audits. These processes are neither neat nor orderly and have led to a contentious sphere where the exercise of power over documents, institutions and technology is intricate, fluid and highly situated. A highly original account with global significance, this book casts new light on the challenges and benefits of using information and technology in novel ways to implement development programs. Rajesh Veeraraghavan Book Adda — Patching Development: Information Politics and Social Change in India May 2 All Day Digital Health Pitch Competition Application Due Brown University and Lifespan junior faculty, postdocs, residents, medical students, and graduate students – Do you have an idea for a digital health innovation that will help solve a sticky public health challenge? Apply to participate in the first ever Digital Health Pitch Competition! This is a program that encourages digital health innovation and rewards brilliant ideas with seed funding and mentorship. Complete the application by May 2, 2022 to be invited to pitch your digital health innovation. Your team could walk away with up to $25,000 in prize money! Applications open April 15, 2022. Digital Health Pitch Competition Application Due Biology, Medicine, Public Health, Entrepreneurship, Graduate School, Postgraduate Education, Psychology & Cognitive Sciences, Social Sciences Apr 29 1:00pm - 2:00pm NVivo Training Module: NVivo Project Set-Up Zoom Join Advance-CTR for the second of two training modules on the ins and outs of NVivo and how to utilize the software for your study. The Advance-CTR Virtual NVivo Modules will be conducted on a PC and provide an introduction to the NVIV0 2020 software version. Mac specific training will take place at a future date. Module 2: NVivo Project Set-up Step-by-step demonstration on how to set up a new project, enter data, create codes, and conduct preliminary analysis. Friday, April 29, 2022 1:00 p.m. - 2:00 p.m. (Open Q&A from 2:00 to 2:30 p.m.) There is limited space for these modules and registration will take place on a first-come first serve basis. You will receive confirmation of your spot by Monday, April 18, 2022. NVivo Training Module: NVivo Project Set-Up Biology, Medicine, Public Health, Training, Professional Development Apr 28 2:00pm - 3:00pm Carney Career Chat with Senior Patent Agent Colleen McKiernan, Ph.D. Carney Institute, 4th floor, 164 Angell Street Please join the Carney Institute for a conversation with Colleen McKiernan, Ph.D., about her journey from earning a Ph.D. in Cell and Molecular Biology to working as a Senior Patent Agent at Intellia Therapeutics. Colleen will discuss what it’s like to work in patents and intellectual property with a background in science. Carney Career Chat with Senior Patent Agent Colleen McKiernan, Ph.D. Biology, Medicine, Public Health, Careers, Recruiting, Internships, Graduate School, Postgraduate Education, Psychology & Cognitive Sciences, Research, Training, Professional Development Apr 28 12:00pm DSI DUG Initial Brainstorming Session 164 Angell Street Calling all concentrators! Thinking about data science but not sure where to get started? The DSI is starting a new DUG! If you are an undergraduate student from ANY concentration, interested in data science or the Data Fluency Certificate, we invite you to join us for an initial interest/brainstorming session! Please come prepared to share your thoughts about what a DS DUG can do for you! Pizza and refreshments will be served. Please register in advance! DSI DUG Initial Brainstorming Session Biology, Medicine, Public Health, Education, Teaching, Instruction, Humanities, Identity, Culture, Inclusion, Mathematics, Technology, Engineering, Physical & Earth Sciences, Psychology & Cognitive Sciences, Social Sciences, Student Clubs, Organizations & Activities Apr 27 3:00pm DSI Lecture: AI-guided Induced Pluripotent Stem Cell-based Therapy Manufacturing at Cellino 164 Angell Street Ozge Whiting, Ph.D. Vice President of Data and Machine Learning, Cellino AI-guided Induced Pluripotent Stem Cell-based Therapy Manufacturing at Cellino Cellino is on a mission to make personalized, autologous cell therapies accessible to patients. Stem cell-derived regenerative medicines are poised to cure some of the toughest diseases within this decade, including Parkinson’s, diabetes, and heart disease. Patient-specific cells provide the safest, most effective cures for these indications. However, current autologous processes are not scalable due to extensive manual handling, high variability, and expensive facility overhead. Cellino’s vision is to make personalized regenerative medicines viable at a large scale for the first time. Cellino’s ML team is building the AI engine that monitors the cells as they grow and guides the laser-based editing system to eliminate manual review processes. This talk is hosted by Andras Zsom, Assistant Professor of the Practice of Data Science; Director of Industry and Research Engagement; Director of Graduate Studies, Data Science Initiative. Refreshments and snacks will be provided. DSI Lecture: AI-guided Induced Pluripotent Stem Cell-based Therapy Manufacturing at Cellino Biology, Medicine, Public Health, Graduate School, Postgraduate Education, Mathematics, Technology, Engineering Apr 25 2:30pm - 3:30pm Special Seminar - Beyond Amyloid Plaques and Tau Tangles -Multi-omic Studies Reveal the Complex Pathological Landscape of Alzheimer’s Disease Sidney E. Frank Hall for Life Sciences Todd Golde, M.D., Ph.D. Professor, Department of Neuroscience Director, McKnight Brain Institute University of Florida Please note that this is a hybrid seminar, in Marcuvitz Auditorium in Sidney Frank Hall and through Zoom (please email [email protected] for the link information). Special Seminar - Beyond Amyloid Plaques and Tau Tangles -Multi-omic Studies Reveal the Complex Pathological Landscape of Alzheimer’s Disease Biology, Medicine, Public Health, Research Apr 22 1:00pm - 2:00pm NVivo Module Training: Introduction and Overview to the NVivo Software Zoom Join Advance-CTR for the first of two training modules on the ins and outs of NVivo and how to utilize the software for your study. The Advance-CTR Virtual NVivo Modules will be conducted on a PC and provide an introduction to the NVIV0 2020 software version. Mac specific training will take place at a future date. Module 1: Introduction and Overview to the NVivo Software A general overview and introduction on the NVivo software and its potential uses. Friday, April 22, 2022 1:00 p.m. - 2:00 p.m. (Open Q&A from 2:00 to 2:30 p.m.) There is limited space for these modules and registration will take place on a first-come first serve basis. You will receive confirmation of your spot by Monday, April 18, 2022. NVivo Module Training: Introduction and Overview to the NVivo Software Biology, Medicine, Public Health, Training, Professional Development Apr 22 12:00pm - 1:00pm Data Visualization Seminar Zoom Join Advance-CTR, S4, and the Brown Library for the first of this 2-part series exploring data visualization, its methodology, and application in biomedicine and health. The purpose of this series is to serve as a data visualization introduction for clinicians and others who may be interested in using these tools and methods in their research. Friday, April 22, 2022 12:00 p.m. - 1:00 p.m. “Data Visualization from 10,000 feet: A Quick Introduction to Visual Communication” Featuring E. Patrick Rashleigh The Center for Digital Scholarship, Brown University Library Poised to plunge into data visualization, making the latest-and-greatest fancy interactive extravaganzas? Well, hang on—before pulling out all the tools, let’s take a step back and think about some basic principles of visual perception, design and representation, and communicating to an audience. Data Visualization Seminar Biology, Medicine, Public Health, Research, Teaching & Learning Apr 22 10:00am - 12:00pm Dissertation Defense of Biostatistics Doctoral Candidate Bing Li 121 South Main Street Biostatistics Doctoral Candidate Bing Li Generalizing the Area Under the ROC Curve to a New Target Population Please join us as Biostatistics doctoral candidate Bing Li defends her thesis, “Generalizing the Area Under the ROC Curve to a New Target Population.” Dissertation Defense of Biostatistics Doctoral Candidate Bing Li Biology, Medicine, Public Health, Education, Teaching, Instruction, Graduate School, Postgraduate Education Apr 20 4:00pm CANCELED: DSI Research Seminar with Beth Fussell, PSTC/IBES: Dataset on Environment and Migration Systems for the US 164 Angell Street Elizabeth Fussell, Ph.D. Professor of Population Studies and Environment and Society, Population Studies and Training Center, Brown University DATASET ON ENVIRONMENT AND MIGRATION SYSTEMS FOR THE US Climate-related hazards are expected to permanantly or temporarily displace millions of people around the world in the coming decades, including the US. A coupled human-environment understanding of the hazard-migration relationship anchored in the social sciences is critical for policty development around post-disaster rebuilding and relocation, and anticipatory managed retreat. In this presentation, Dr. Fussell will describe an effort to construct and validate a new spatiotemporal dataset – the Dataset on Envrionment and Migration Systems (DEMS) – that uses linked data records from the US Census Bureau to support analyses of environmental hazards and internal migration, and to use the DEMS to test hypotheses derived from migration systems and social vulnerability approaches that investigate the relationship between hazards and migration. The construction of DEMS benefits from Census Bureau data linkage infrastructure newly accessible to external researchers. The presentation will focus on the approach to constructing the DEMS and the goals of the project which was recently funded by the National Science Foundation. This talk is based on an NSF-funded research project that began in early 2022. Elizabeth Fussell, Ph.D. is a sociologist and demographer whose research focuses on societal and environmental causes of migration and population change. She joined Brown University and the PSTC in 2014 and is also affiliated with the Institute at Brown for Environment and Society. Dr. Fussell is also Editor-in-Chief of the Springer Journal, Population and Environment. Her research has been supported by the National Institutes of Health, the MacArthur Foundation, and the Russell Sage Foundation. Dr. Fussell is an author of the Fifth National Climate Assessment’s Chapter on Human Social Systems. CANCELED: DSI Research Seminar with Beth Fussell, PSTC/IBES: Dataset on Environment and Migration Systems for the US Apr 20 1:00pm CDH Seminar - Advancing Digital Health Equity: From Design to Implementation Zoom This session will cover a new framework for advancing digital health equity, and then go through multiple case studies that highlight practical research and implementation approaches within this space – focusing on the safety net healthcare system within San Francisco. Speaker Bio Courtney Lyles, PhD, is an Associate Professor in the Division of General Internal Medicine at Zuckerberg San Francisco General Hospital, the Center for Vulnerable Populations, and the Department of Epidemiology and Biostatistics at the University of California, San Francisco. A trained health services researcher, she uses quantitative and qualitative methods to examine quality of care, health behavior, and health outcomes. She is also an Associate Director of the UCSF program Implementation Science program based in the Department of Epidemiology and Biostatistics. Finally, she holds an affiliate investigator appointment at the Kaiser Permanente Northern California Division of Research. Her research specifically focuses on harnessing health information technology to improve patient-provider communication for chronic disease self-management to ultimately reduce disparities in health and healthcare outcomes for low-income and racial/ethnic minority populations. She currently is co-PI of an R01 from the Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality to use machine learning to send personalized text messages to patients to motivate physical activity, including leveraging user-centered design and implementation science principles. Please note that this virtual event, including attendees’ Zoom video, audio and screen name, and questions or chats, will be recorded. All or portions of the event recording may be shared through the Center for Digital Health’s digital channels. Individuals who do not want their identities to be captured are solely responsible for turning off their camera, muting their microphone and/or adjusting their screen name accordingly. By attending this event, you consent to your name, voice, and/or image being recorded and to CDH reproducing, distributing and otherwise displaying the recording, within its sole discretion. CDH Seminar - Advancing Digital Health Equity: From Design to Implementation Biology, Medicine, Public Health, Graduate School, Postgraduate Education, Training, Professional Development Apr 19 2:00pm Intellectual Property Protection and Commercialization & Innovation Fellows Program 164 Angell Street Please join the Data Science Initiative for a discussion and information session with Brown Technology Innovations: “Intellectual Property Protection and Commercialization, and an Upcoming Innovation Fellows Program for Graduate Students and Postdoctoral Researchers at Brown University” Tuesday, April 19 from 2:00 PM to 3:00 pm Please register in advance! Intellectual Property Protection and Commercialization & Innovation Fellows Program Apr 16 12:00pm - 3:00pm International Festival Main Green From Global to Local: Telling Stories of Home Join us for International Festival, one of the largest events hosted by the Global Brown Center for International Students! International Festival is a day of celebration of Brown’s vibrant global community, bringing together student organizations and University offices that uplift and enrich the global experience here at Brown. From 12-3pm on Saturday, April 16th, come to the main green to enjoy delicious food, games, and performances! From the cultural organizations serving appetizers and desserts from home, to performance organizations putting on an incredible show, celebrate a diverse set of stories from around the world in many different forms. Participants will be able to buy tickets to purchase food and other items on the day of the event. Please note that this event is cash-only. This year, the International Festival is co-hosted by Storytellers @ Brown and at each cultural organization booth, we’re featuring a work of literature that the clubs have chosen to represent their group! Get amazing book recommendations and listen to performers from Storytellers and beyond share their personal narratives in a global context. Expect performances from Storytellers, Brown Bhairavi, Brown Lion Dance, Mezcla, and more! Special thanks to participating student organizations and University offices: AfriSA Brasa @ Brown Brown/RISD Arab Society Brown Taiwan Society Brown UNICEF Center for Language Studies Chinese Student Association Filipino Alliance (FA) Global Brown Global Health Initiative Hawaiʻi at Brown Hellenic Students Association Himalayan Cultural Association Japanese Cultural Association Latinx Student Union LGBTQ Center Nigerian Students Association Office of International Programs Project Access Sarah Doyle Center for Women and Gender South Asian Students’ Association Storytellers @ Brown Vietnamese Student’s Association International Festival Apr 15 6:00pm U-FLi Arcade! Sciences Library The U-FLi Center is so excited to welcome you all to the U-FLi Arcade, a whole new way to come into community with one another! Spend one night in the U-FLi Arcade and win prizes! Play great games, like Super Smash Bros, Mario Party, Mario Kart– and classic games like UNO and Spoons! Spend some time getting to know your U-FLi peers, making friends, and having fun with your chosen family. Space is limited to please make sure to RSVP. Food will be provided! U-FLi Arcade! Identity, Culture, Inclusion Apr 15 12:00pm CCMB Special Seminar: “Relating Enhancer Genetic Variation Across Mammals to Complex Phenotypes Using Machine Learning” 164 Angell Street, Providence, RI 02912 This will be a hybrid talk. In-person attendance is encouraged. IRENE KAPLOW Postdoctoral Researcher, Carnegie Mellon University Relating Enhancer Genetic Variation Across Mammals to Complex Phenotypes Using Machine Learning Advances in genome sequencing have provided a comprehensive view of cross-species conservation across small segments of nucleotides. These conservation measures have proven invaluable for associating phenotypic variation, both within and across species, to variation in genotype at protein-coding genes or very highly conserved enhancers. However, these approaches cannot be applied to the vast majority of enhancers, where the conservation levels of individual nucleotides are often low even when enhancer function is conserved and where activity is tissue- or cell-type-specific. To overcome these limitations, we developed the TACIT (Tissue-Aware Conservation Inference Toolkit) approach, in which convolutional neural network models learn the regulatory code connecting genome sequence to open chromatin in a tissue of interest, allowing us to accurately predict cases where differences in genotype are associated with differences in open chromatin in that tissue at enhancer regions. We established a new set of evaluation criteria for machine learning models developed for this task and used these criteria to compare our models to models trained using different negative sets and to conservation scores. We then developed a framework for connecting these predictions to phenotypes in a way that accounts for the phylogenetic tree. When applying our framework to the motor cortex and parvalbumin neurons, we identified dozens of new enhancers associated with the evolution of brain size and vocal learning. Learn more about Irene Kaplow… CCMB Special Seminar: “Relating Enhancer Genetic Variation Across Mammals to Complex Phenotypes Using Machine Learning” Apr 13 5:00pm - 7:00pm Digital Healthcare: From Cyber Threat to Health Equity List Art Building Join the Office of the Vice President of Research (OVPR) for a special event featuring Eric Perakslis and Dr. Megan Ranney. About this event While digital health offers many clear promises and opportunities, the complexities are real and oftentimes foreign to traditional healthcare. Deriving value for patients, clinicians and institutions requires mixing technology, medicine, basic science and the internet, the clinic environment and the home environment, and much more. In this talk, Erik Perakslis and Dr. Megan Ranney, Academic Dean of the School of Public Health, will discuss the 10 emerging “toxicities” of digital health and how they can be mitigated and managed with a specific focus on health equity. This event is cosponsored by OVPR, the Brown-Lifespan Center for Digital Health and the Brown Data Science Initiative. This event is free and open to the public. Registration is required. Closed Captioning will be provided. Speaker Bios Eric Perakslis is the chief science and digital officer at the Duke Clinical Research Institute and professor of population health sciences and chief technology strategist at the Duke University School of Medicine. Previously, Perakslis was a Rubenstein Fellow at Duke University, where his work focused on collaborative efforts in data science that spanned medicine, policy, engineering, computer science, information technology and security. Prior to Duke, Perakslis served as chief scientific advisor at Datavant, lecturer in the Department of Biomedical Informatics at Harvard Medical School and strategic innovation advisor to Médecins Sans Frontières, as well as in roles with the U.S. Food and Drug Administration, Johnson & Johnson Pharmaceuticals and ArQule Inc. Perakslis has a Ph.D. in chemical and biochemical engineering from Drexel University. He also holds BSChE and M.S. degrees in chemical engineering. Megan Ranney is a practicing emergency physician, researcher and advocate for innovative approaches to health. Her work focuses on the intersection between digital health, violence prevention and population health. Ranney is the founding director of the Brown-Lifespan Center for Digital Health, the academic dean for the Brown University School of Public Health and the Warren Alpert Endowed Associate Professor in the Department of Emergency Medicine at Rhode Island Hospital/Warren Alpert Medical School of Brown University. She is an editor for the journal Annals of Emergency Medicine and a Fellow of the American College of Emergency Physicians. Ranney has a B.S. in history of science from Harvard University, an M.D. from Columbia University College of Physicians and Surgeons in New York City and an MPH from Brown University. Sponsoring Departments The Office of the Vice President for Research (OVPR) at Brown University strategically collaborates with internal and external stakeholders to accelerate the global impact of Brown University’s research and scholarship. Brown’s innovative research drives broad, positive change across the globe. The OVPR team provides the expertise needed to uphold the high, ethical standard that is the hallmark of research at Brown. The OVPR staff are flexible and anticipate the needs of Brown researchers, and serve as key partners to the non-profit, government and industry sectors. As a result, Brown researchers engage in successful collaborations within and beyond the University. To learn more: www.brown.edu/research The Data Science Initiative at Brown University is a hub for research and education in the foundational methodologies, domain applications, and societal impacts of data science. To learn more: www.brown.edu/initiatives/data-science The Center for Digital Health is a hub where creative minds from Brown and its affiliated hospital partners collaboratively design, test, and deploy digital solutions to society’s most pressing health challenges. To learn more: https://digitalhealth.med.brown.edu/ Digital Healthcare: From Cyber Threat to Health Equity Apr 13 12:00pm - 1:00pm Data Science in Industry - Biostatistics Alumni Talk 121 South Main Street Welcome to the Spring 2022 series of Career Information sessions where we will feature Biostatistics alumni as well as representatives from prestigious companies in the local area. Current students will have the opportunity to learn more about health-related and other job opportunities for people with a solid background in biostatistics, data analysis, and quantitative methods, as well as tips for an effective job search, and advice on pursuing a successful career after graduation. The speakers for this event will be: Isaac Zhao, Sc.M. Master of Science, 2019 Biostatistician/Data Scientist at Alkermes (Contractor) Doctoral Student in Data Science at Worcester Polytechnic Institute Julia Roberta, Sc.M. Master of Science, 2019 Senior Biostatistician at Exact Sciences Lunch will be served! Data Science in Industry - Biostatistics Alumni Talk Biology, Medicine, Public Health, Careers, Recruiting, Internships, Graduate School, Postgraduate Education Apr 12 1:30pm - 2:30pm Carney Conversations: Health disparities and the brain Zoom Join the Carney Institute for Brain Science for a lively conversation about health disparities in brain-related disorders, featuring: Monica Rivera-Mindt, Ph.D., president of the Hispanic Neuropsychological Society, a professor of psychology at Fordham University and a board-certified neuropsychologist. Rivera-Mindt’s research focuses on the intersection between cultural neuroscience, neuropsychology and health disparities utilizing a novel community-based approach. Diana Grigsby, Ph.D., an associate professor of behavioral and social sciences and of epidemiology at Brown University. Grigsby’s research seeks to capture complex processes in the food, social and built environments to facilitate a better understanding of their influence on what has been coined the three pillars of health: diet, physical activity and sleep. This conversation will be moderated by Diane Lipscombe, Reliance Dhirubhai Ambani Director of the Carney Institute, and Christopher Moore, associate director of the Carney Institute. Carney Conversations: Health disparities and the brain Biology, Medicine, Public Health, Psychology & Cognitive Sciences, Research Mar 28 12:00pm - 1:00pm Statistics Seminar | Despina Kontos, Ph.D. 121 South Main Street Dr. Despina Kontos, Matthew J. Wilson Associate Professor of Research Radiology II, Associate Vice-Chair for Research, and Director of the Computational Biomarker Imaging Group (CBIG) in the Center for Biomedical Image Computing and Analytics (CBICA) at the Radiology Department of the University of Pennsylvania The Role of Imaging as a Biomarker in Integrated Precision Diagnostics for Cancer Care As new options for breast cancer screening, early detection and treatment become available it is essential to provide accurate, clinically relevant methods to identify women that would benefit most from specific approaches. An emerging approach to improve individualized risk assessment in clinical decision making for breast cancer is the incorporation imaging biomarkers. Our studies with multi-modality breast imaging suggest that imaging can play an important role for personalizing patient care. Quantitative measures of breast density and parenchymal texture can improve the prediction accuracy of breast cancer risk estimation models and potentially, help guide personalized breast cancer screening protocols. Tumor phenotypic characteristics, such as shape, morphology, and heterogeneity of contrast enhancement kinetics from magnetic resonance imaging are indicative of molecular subtypes of breast cancer and correlate with the probability of future recurrence. Such phenotypic tumor imaging markers can also be used as surrogates for treatment response, including neo-adjuvant chemotherapy, and help identify earlier patients that are most likely to respond to treatment. This emerging evidence therefore suggests a new clinical paradigm that will necessitate integrating multi-modality imaging biomarkers with genomics, histopathology, and clinical risk factors to assess individualized patient risk and help better guide clinical decisions for breast cancer. This talk will provide an overview of investigations currently on-going at our institution that include digital mammography, digital breast tomosynthesis and magnetic resonance imaging biomarkers and their potential clinical utility in guiding personalized screening, prevention, and treatment approaches for breast cancer. Dr. Despina Kontos Ph.D., is the Matthew J. Wilson Associate Professor of Research Radiology II, Associate Vice-Chair for Research, and Director of the Computational Biomarker Imaging Group (CBIG) in the Center for Biomedical Image Computing and Analytics (CBICA) at the Radiology Department of the University of Pennsylvania. Dr. Kontos received her C.Eng. diploma in Computer Engineering and Informatics from the University of Patras in Greece and her Ph.D. degrees in Computer Science from Temple University in Philadelphia. Her research interests focus on investigating the role of quantitative imaging as a predictive biomarker for guiding personalized clinical decisions in breast cancer screening, prognosis and treatment. She has been the recipient of the ECOG-ACRIN Young Investigator Award of Distinction for Translational Research and is currently leading several on-going research studies, funded both by the NIH/NCI and private foundations, to incorporate novel quantitative multi-modality imaging measures of breast tumor and normal tissue composition into cancer risk prediction models. Statistics Seminar | Despina Kontos, Ph.D. Biology, Medicine, Public Health, Graduate School, Postgraduate Education, Mathematics, Technology, Engineering, Research, Training, Professional Development Mar 23 5:00pm CANCELED: Special Seminar: Chelsea Manning, “The Future of Data and Privacy” Salomon Auditorium THIS EVENT HAS BEEN POSTPONED UNTIL THE FALL 22 SEMESTER. Unfortunately, due to some unforeseen circumstances, Chelsea Manning will not be able to be at Brown University – all events scheduled for Wednesday and Thursday are thereby canceled. We are excited, however, to host Chelsea early in the Fall semester! We will disseminate the dates of her visit in the coming months. We deeply apologize for this schedule change. Alberto Bortoni, co-president. Brown War Watch CHELSEA MANNING: The Future of Privacy and Data Manning delivers a keynote address on the importance of the human element in the development of technology and the imperative to operate with responsibility, accountability, and a strong moral compass, for the sake of not only our privacy but for the future of humanity, which may very well depend on it. Tickets can be reserved through Eventbrite. This talk is free and open to the public. Presented by Brown War Watch and co-sponsored by the Data Science Initiative. This talk is also in partnership with the Watson Institute for International and Public Affairs, the History Department, the Math Department, the COGUT Institute for the Humanities, oSTEM, the Pembroke Center for Teaching and Research on Women, and the Political Theory Project at Brown University. CANCELED: Special Seminar: Chelsea Manning, “The Future of Data and Privacy” Education, Teaching, Instruction, Faculty Governance, Government, Public & International Affairs, Humanities, Identity, Culture, Inclusion, International, Global Engagement, Mathematics, Technology, Engineering, Research Mar 23 1:00pm Digital Health Commercialization Seminar Series 3/23 “Pitch Perfect: Crafting an Effective Pitch Deck” with NEMIC Zoom In this Workshop, participants will have the chance to learn the tools needed to build an effective pitch deck and put those tools to use by building a pitch deck of their own. Participants will be able to access NEMICs pitch template to build a framework for their business and strategic plans as they move forward through development. Speaker Bio Aidan Petrie is a founding Partner of NEMIC (New England Medical Innovation Center), New England’s Med Tech venture studio and a Fellow of the Provost at RISD, focused on intersections between user centered design and healthcare. He is a member of Cherrystone Angels and a mentor and adviser to many startups. He also co-founded the MagpieX MedTech Accelerator Fund. MagpieX provides pre-seed capital investment, along with clinical and regulatory expertise to Med Tech and Digital Health startups, through a synergistic partnership with NEMIC. Aidan’s passion for innovation and design has helped bring hundreds of products to market that range from simple drug compliance aids to wearable therapeutics, home monitoring products and complex surgical systems. Aidan was the founding partner of Ximedica, one of the world’s leading medical device developers. Ximedica integrates regulated devices with connected systems to provide the next generation of healthcare solutions. Aidan remains the Chief Innovation Officer Emeritus and holds over 100 patents. —– Please note that this virtual event, including attendees’ Zoom video, audio and screen name, and questions or chats, will be recorded. All or portions of the event recording may be shared through the Center for Digital Health’s digital channels. Individuals who do not want their identities to be captured are solely responsible for turning off their camera, muting their microphone and/or adjusting their screen name accordingly. By attending this event, you consent to your name, voice, and/or image being recorded and to CDH reproducing, distributing and otherwise displaying the recording, within its sole discretion. The CDH is committed to providing universal access to all of our events. Please contact Allison Seeley ([email protected]) to request disability accommodations. Advance notice is necessary to arrange for some accessibility needs. Digital Health Commercialization Seminar Series 3/23 “Pitch Perfect: Crafting an Effective Pitch Deck” with NEMIC Biology, Medicine, Public Health, Entrepreneurship, Training, Professional Development Mar 16 4:00pm CCMB Affiliate Seminar: Dr. Nikos Tapinos, Brown University NIKOS TAPINOS, MD, Ph.D. Brown University CANCER STEM CELL PLASTICITY: INTEGRATING COMPUTATIONAL BIOLOGY WITH THE BEDSIDE Dr. Nikos Tapinos will present the concept of cancer stem cell plasticity and why this is crucial for understanding the evolution of cancer and therapeutic resistance. He will present computational; biology projects that help discover molecular mechanisms that define cellular plasticity and finally, Dr. Tapinos will show examples of how this new information can be used for the benefit of cancer patients. Learn more about Dr. Nikos Tapinos… CCMB Affiliate Seminar: Dr. Nikos Tapinos, Brown University Mar 16 1:00pm - 1:50pm Critical Computing Speaker Series: William Lockett Granoff Center for the Creative Arts The Critical Computing Speaker Series presents William Lockett “Media Laboratory Classrooms for Human Model Organisms, 1952–1974” This presentation provides to the Digital Media students a way into the scientific and philosophical stakes of model mindsas they relate specifically to the pre-history of the personal computer. I show that model builders used modern logic and sensory deprivation architectures to transform classrooms into laboratory contexts designed for studies of the development in children of numerical and linguistic abilities. I argue that this background of “model work”—behind the foreground of networked personal devices—stabilizes a set of philosophical stakes that can guide the formation of a critical media history of computing in the present. Please be sure to RSVP using the form below. Critical Computing Speaker Series: William Lockett Arts, Performance, History, Cultural Studies, Languages, Humanities, Mathematics, Technology, Engineering, Social Sciences Mar 15 1:00pm Digital Health Commercialization Seminar Series “Early De-Risking: Feasibility, Desirability & Viability” with OCTO Zoom Join Founder of OCTO Product Development, Justin Sirotin in a conversation about the value and importance of MVP (minimum viable product) exploration and definition, how to ensure feasibility/desirability & viability, and the processes to define these. Speaker Bio Justin Sirotin is an entrepreneur, design strategist, and expert in product development and innovation. He has spent his 25+ year career developing successful products, services, brand experiences and businesses for multinational brands and start-ups alike. He is the founder of three successful companies delivering high-end consumer goods and a product strategy, research, design, development, and engineering services firm. He is currently taking on his most ambitious plan to date, a fourth company developing a complex IoT software platform that will change the way data is collected and distributed. This wide range of experiences gives Justin a unique perspective on driving innovation, regardless of company size or industry vertical. Justin has developed a unique point of view on the complete process for creating products through his work with clients including Bose, Google, Hexagon, Schneider Electric, Leica Geosystems, Johnson and Johnson, Titleist, and CVS. This background led him to start OCTO Product Development, a product development firm that delivers highly individualized software and product design and engineering services to companies of all sizes. Before launching OCTO Product Development, Mars Made, and Route Werks, Justin worked as the General Manager for Item New Product Development (now Ximedica), a medical technologies product development firm headquartered in Providence, RI. In addition, Justin has been an adjunct faculty member at RISD since 2008 in the Industrial Design Department. ———- Please note that this virtual event, including attendees’ Zoom video, audio and screen name, and questions or chats, will be recorded. All or portions of the event recording may be shared through the Center for Digital Health’s digital channels. Individuals who do not want their identities to be captured are solely responsible for turning off their camera, muting their microphone and/or adjusting their screen name accordingly. By attending this event, you consent to your name, voice, and/or image being recorded and to CDH reproducing, distributing and otherwise displaying the recording, within its sole discretion. The CDH is committed to providing universal access to all of our events. Please contact Allison Seeley ([email protected]) to request disability accommodations. Advance notice is necessary to arrange for some accessibility needs. Digital Health Commercialization Seminar Series “Early De-Risking: Feasibility, Desirability & Viability” with OCTO Biology, Medicine, Public Health, Entrepreneurship, Training, Professional Development Mar 14 12:00pm - 1:00pm Statistics C.V. Starr Lecture | Nicholas Petrick, Ph.D. Zoom Dr. Nicholas Petrick, Deputy Director for the Division of Imaging, Diagnostics and Software Reliability at the Center for Devices and Radiological Health, U.S. Food and Drug Administration and member of the FDA Senior Biomedical Research Service Current regulatory validation methods for artificial intelligence models applied to medical imaging data Statical decision making, artificial intelligence and machine learning (AI/ML) methods have a long history being applied to digital medical image data with mammography computer-aided detection devices approved back in 1998 by FDA and other quantitative tools/measures approved or cleared even earlier. The number of AI/ML tools applied to medical image data remained relatively consistent until a few years ago. The FDA is currently seeing a substantial increase in the number of submitted AI/ML tools because of recent advances in deep learning methods in other commercial areas with the potential for these tools to have a much wider impact on clinical decision-making. Some newer medical AI/ML applications include detection and diagnostic tools to aid in disease detection and assessment, triage tools to aid in prioritizing time-sensitive imaging studies, quantitative measurement tools, structural segmentation tools, image reconstruction or denoising tools, and optimization tools to aid in image acquisition to name a few. In this talk, I will introduce the audience to FDA’s medical device regulatory processes with the goal of demystifying how medical devices are regulated in the U.S. The main focus of my talk will be on the validation methods currently being applied to AI/ML device assessment and a discussion of our ongoing regulatory research developing methods to potentially improve AI/ML algorithm generalizability, robustness analysis as well as AI/ML device performance assessment. Statistics C.V. Starr Lecture | Nicholas Petrick, Ph.D. Biology, Medicine, Public Health, Graduate School, Postgraduate Education, Mathematics, Technology, Engineering, Research, Training, Professional Development Mar 9 1:00pm Digital Health Commercialization Seminar Series “Market Access and Commercialization” with Precision Advisors Zoom This presentation will introduce audiences to market access considerations for digital health innovations. Speaker Bio Greg Gregory, Ph.D., has a decade of strategy and management consulting experience working with top clients in the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries and has a passion for rare diseases and orphan drugs. He has over a decade of biomedical research experience from leading research institutions. He has 10+ years of experience in Market Access and Commercialization Strategies, Pricing and Reimbursement Strategies, Orphan Drugs, Vaccine, Oncology and Specialty Therapeutics Trade and Distribution Strategies, Hub Services Strategy, LOE, Payer Value Proposition, Vaccine Go-to-Market Strategy, and Digital Therapeutics. His areas of focus include working with rare disease and specialty products as well as gaining experience working across a range of therapeutic areas, including cardiovascular, hematology/oncology, immunology, respiratory, CNS, autoimmune disorders, vaccines, and digital therapeutics. He has delivered and/or managed over 200 consulting engagements for life-science companies ranging from start-up biotechs to top 5 pharmaceutical manufacturers. Greg is experienced in competitive payer dynamics, multi-indication access challenges, and adjunctive/combination therapies within orphan & oncology. Greg leverages over a decade of biomedical research experience from leading research institutions. During his time in academia, his PhD and post-doctoral research furthered our understanding of the mechanisms contributing to several human diseases including the autoimmune disease multiple sclerosis and blood disorders such as thalassemia and thrombocytopenia. ———- Please note that this virtual event, including attendees’ Zoom video, audio and screen name, and questions or chats, will be recorded. All or portions of the event recording may be shared through the Center for Digital Health’s digital channels. Individuals who do not want their identities to be captured are solely responsible for turning off their camera, muting their microphone and/or adjusting their screen name accordingly. By attending this event, you consent to your name, voice, and/or image being recorded and to CDH reproducing, distributing and otherwise displaying the recording, within its sole discretion. The CDH is committed to providing universal access to all of our events. Please contact Allison Seeley ([email protected]) to request disability accommodations. Advance notice is necessary to arrange for some accessibility needs. Digital Health Commercialization Seminar Series “Market Access and Commercialization” with Precision Advisors Biology, Medicine, Public Health, Entrepreneurship, Training, Professional Development Mar 7 12:00pm - 1:00pm Statistics C.V. Starr Lecture | Katherine Heller, Ph.D. 121 South Main Street Dr. Katherine Heller, Research Scientist at Google Towards Trustworthy Machine Learning in Medicine and the Role of Uncertainty As ML is increasingly used in society, we need methods that we have confidence that we can rely on, particularly in the medical domain. In this talk I discuss 3 pieces of work, the role uncertainty plays in understanding and combating issues with generalization and bias, and particular mitigations that we can take into consideration. 1) Sepsis Watch - I present a Gaussian Process (GP) + Recurrent Neural Network (RNN) model for predicting sepsis infections in Emergency Department patients. I will discuss the benefit of uncertainty given by the GP. I will then discuss the social context in introducing such a system into a hospital setting. 2) Uncertainty and Electronic Health Records (EHR) - I will discuss Bayesian RNN models developed for mortality prediction, and the distinction between population level predictive performance and individual level predictive performance, and its implications for bias. 3) Underspecification and the credibility implications of hyperparameter choices in ML models – I will discuss medical imaging applications and how using the uncertainty of model performance conditioned on choice of hyperparameters can help identify situations in which methods may not generalize well outside the training domain. Statistics C.V. Starr Lecture | Katherine Heller, Ph.D. Biology, Medicine, Public Health, Graduate School, Postgraduate Education, Mathematics, Technology, Engineering, Research, Training, Professional Development Mar 2 1:00pm Digital Health Commercialization Seminar Series “US Regulatory Pathways” with Strategy Health Zoom This seminar will present an overview of the regulatory landscape in the United States as well as important considerations for digital health innovations to seek and achieve FDA approval. Speaker Bio Dr. Shrawan Patel, MD is a recognized voice in the digital health ecosystem with expertise ranging from digital therapeutics and successful patient engagement techniques, through to digital infrastructure design for pharmaceutical Medical Affairs teams. With a clinical background that includes Internal Medicine and General/Colorectal Surgery, Shrawan brings a wealth of clinical experience to the table. Shrawan has a particular interest in the application of Behavioral Economics in healthcare with proven outcomes that exceed the industry norm and have been recognized by national associations including the American College of Radiology, American Gastroenterology Association, and the American Medical Informatics Association. Shrawan speaks regularly around the country on innovation and digital health. ———- Please note that this virtual event, including attendees’ Zoom video, audio and screen name, and questions or chats, will be recorded. All or portions of the event recording may be shared through the Center for Digital Health’s digital channels. Individuals who do not want their identities to be captured are solely responsible for turning off their camera, muting their microphone and/or adjusting their screen name accordingly. By attending this event, you consent to your name, voice, and/or image being recorded and to CDH reproducing, distributing and otherwise displaying the recording, within its sole discretion. The CDH is committed to providing universal access to all of our events. Please contact Allison Seeley ([email protected]) to request disability accommodations. Advance notice is necessary to arrange for some accessibility needs. Digital Health Commercialization Seminar Series “US Regulatory Pathways” with Strategy Health Biology, Medicine, Public Health, Entrepreneurship, Training, Professional Development Feb 28 3:00pm Digital Health Commercialization Seminar Series “Protecting Your Intellectual Property” with APS Zoom This seminar will present an overview of the strategies digital health innovators can employ to protect their intellectual property. Speaker Bios Dan Holmander, JD Daniel is a U.S. Patent and Trademark Office registered patent attorney (U.S. Reg. No. 59,518) and admitted to the federal district courts in Rhode Island and Massachusetts. Most importantly, Daniel has extensive experience in developing and executing strategies for clients’ intellectual property portfolios with a sharply honed focus on furthering their business objectives. As a registered patent attorney with the United States Patent and Trademark Office, Daniel has a passionate focus on assisting a wide range of clients from early stage technology companies to Fortune 500 companies located throughout the United States and Canada with their intellectual property law issues. More specifically, Daniel advocates and counsels clients in intellectual property areas such as patents, trademarks, copyrights, trade secrets, unfair competition, and domain names. Daniel’s range of technology areas is vast including medical technologies, software, biofuels, nanotechnology, material science, eyewear, coatings, vaccines, chemicals, consumer packaging, biotechnology, and green technologies. Daniel advises on all aspects of intellectual property protection including prosecution, procurement, federal litigation, proceedings before the Patent and Trial Appeal Board (PTAB) (i.e. reexaminations and interferences), Trademark Trial and Appeals Board (TTAB) (i.e. oppositions, cancellations, appeals), reexamination, interference, Uniform Domain-Name Dispute Resolution Policy (UDRP) proceedings, licensing from technology transfer offices and others, and auctioning of IP. In addition to his law practice, Daniel is an adjunct Professor of Molecular Pharmacology, Physiology, and Biotechnology at Brown University in Providence, RI. In his spare time, Daniel volunteers for non-profit organizations dedicated to children with autism. Alex Behrakis, JD Alex Behrakis is an intellectual property and corporate attorney with more than nineteen years of experience in law firm and in-house settings. Alex’s practice emphasizes strategic counseling, patent and trademark prosecution, opinions related to infringement and validity, product clearance and freedom-to-operate studies, advising engineering teams on designing around intellectual property rights of third parties, due diligence studies, licensing, and development and management of patent and trademark portfolios, and related litigation. Alex counsels domestic and foreign clients ranging from individual inventors and emerging startup companies to large multinational corporations. Alex has significant experience with a wide range of technologies including computer & communication networks, cloud computing, computer software, cybersecurity, artificial intelligence, machine learning, IoT, robotics, data storage systems, electro-optics and lasers, signal processing, control systems, e-commerce, digital & analog electronics, hybrid microelectronics, machine vision, biomedical devices (e.g., artificial implantable heart, mesh stents, drug-eluting stents, photo ablation and cardio ablation systems), and consumer products. In addition, Alex has extensive experience advising clients on business matters and transactions including business formation, joint ventures, complex technology agreements, licensing, establishing guidelines and corporate policies, website content and ecommerce, website privacy policies and terms-of-use, advertising and packaging claims, product safety, FTC regulations including COPPA. Alex has negotiated and drafted a variety of agreements including licenses, end-user license agreements, music licenses, joint development agreements, operating agreements, asset purchase agreements, service agreements, distribution agreements, sales representative agreements, manufacturing agreements, settlement agreements, cease and desist letters, confidentiality agreements, and amendments to contracts. Prior to entering the legal field, Alex worked as an electrical engineer and software engineer and has more than fifteen years engineering experience involving project management, research and development, hardware and software design, real-time embedded systems, system integration, advanced sensor systems, development of software tools and utilities, and data analysis. ———- Please note that this virtual event, including attendees’ Zoom video, audio and screen name, and questions or chats, will be recorded. All or portions of the event recording may be shared through the Center for Digital Health’s digital channels. Individuals who do not want their identities to be captured are solely responsible for turning off their camera, muting their microphone and/or adjusting their screen name accordingly. By attending this event, you consent to your name, voice, and/or image being recorded and to CDH reproducing, distributing and otherwise displaying the recording, within its sole discretion. The CDH is committed to providing universal access to all of our events. Please contact Allison Seeley ([email protected]) to request disability accommodations. Advance notice is necessary to arrange for some accessibility needs. Digital Health Commercialization Seminar Series “Protecting Your Intellectual Property” with APS Biology, Medicine, Public Health, Entrepreneurship, Training, Professional Development Feb 28 All Day Digital Health Pitch Competition Interest Form Due Brown University and Lifespan junior faculty, postdocs, residents, medical students, and graduate students – Do you have an idea for a digital health innovation that will help solve a sticky public health challenge? Participate in the first ever Digital Health Pitch Competition! This is a program that encourages digital health innovation and rewards brilliant ideas with seed funding and mentorship. Complete the interest form and gain access to a network of innovators, mentors, and advisors, and be eligible to apply for the Digital Health Pitch Competition where your team could walk away with up to $25,000 in prize money. Digital Health Pitch Competition Interest Form Due Biology, Medicine, Public Health, Entrepreneurship, Graduate School, Postgraduate Education, Mathematics, Technology, Engineering, Psychology & Cognitive Sciences, Research Feb 24 1:00pm DSI’s Fair February: Sara Ahmadian, Ph.D. 164 Angell Street, Providence, RI 02912 Fair February 2022 Sara Ahmadian, Ph.D. Senior Research Scientist, Google Revising Traditional Algorithms and Devising New Algorithms to Factor in Fairness From digital assistants to movie recommendations and self-driving cars, machine learning is behind many day-to-day interactions with technology. While learning algorithms are not inherently biased, they may pick up and amplify the bias already present in the training data. Thus a recent line of work has emerged on revising traditional algorithms or devising new algorithms to factor in fairness. In this talk, I focus on adding fairness to clustering which is a fundamental problem in data mining and unsupervised machine learning. We introduce a notion of fairness that focuses on requiring a bounded representation of various groups of a sensitive feature, e.g. race, gender, etc., in each cluster. In clustering, the goal is to organize objects into clusters such that elements in the same clusters are “similar”. There are various ways to express the similarity of objects. In metric settings, we are given a distance measure for the objects, and in a non-metric setting, we are given labels in the form of for pairs of objects which identify whether two objects are similar (label +) or not (label -). We look at a fair k-center for the metric case and fair correlation clustering for the non-metric case. If time permits, I will talk about fairness in non-flat clustering, e.g., hierarchical clustering, and how the algorithms for such problems can be modified to accommodate fairness constraints. Biography Sara Ahmadian is a Senior Research Scientist in the Large-Scale Optimization research team, which is part of the broader NYC Algorithms and Optimization team at Google. Sara earned degrees in Combinatorics and Optimization (M.M. 2010, Ph.D. 2017) from the University of Waterloo, where she was advised by Chaitanya Swamy and supported by an NSERC Fellowship. Sara is a recipient of the 2017 University of Waterloo Outstanding Achievement in Graduate Studies (Ph.D.) designation for her Ph.D. thesis. She worked as a Software Developer for a start-up company in Waterloo after completing her Masters’s and before starting her Ph.D. Prior to that, she earned her BSc in Computer Engineering at Sharif University of Technology (Iran). Her research interests include diverse and fair sampling, data summarization, approximation algorithm, design and analysis of algorithms. DSI’s Fair February: Sara Ahmadian, Ph.D. Feb 24 11:00am DSI’s Fair February: Cyrus Cousins, Ph.D. 164 Angell Street, Providence, RI 02912 Fair February 2022 Cyrus Cousins, Ph.D. Visiting Assistant Professor, Computer Science, Brown University Data Categorization and Welfare Outcomes in Machine Learning Data-quality issues often compound the unfairness, as majority groups are often well-studied, with copious high-quality data available, while marginalized or minority groups are understudied, and available data lack in quality. This work operates in the setting wherein only partial information is available on protected group membership. In particular, here data are triplets (x, y, z) ∈ (X × Y × Z), where Z is a finite space of g protected groups. Given m training points, we observe covariates x, and labels y, but not group identities zm. Instead, we are given a feasible set Z of group labelings. The task is then to perform (group-dependent) fair learning, with rigorous statistical guarantees. We show that learning approximately minimax-optimal egalitarian or utilitarian malware models in this setting is both statistically and computationally efficient. In particular, our bounds depend on how sharply the unknown group-membership labels are constrained, and thus degrade gracefully as less and less partial information about group membership is available. We also discuss methods by which to statistically constrain the feasible set Z of group membership and the fairness implications of generating such constraints. Biography Cyrus Cousins, Ph.D. is a Visiting Assistant Professor at Brown University where he also recently completed his doctorate. A perennial scholar of probability, Cyrus has worked in many areas ranging from statistical significance questions in data science and machine learning to econometrics and social justice, where he raises and attempts to answer fundamental questions of what it means to share, allocate and learn fairly. His signature is the application of techniques from statistical learning theory to study how quickly and under what conditions various quantities of interest can be estimated from data. He also works in the analysis of randomized algorithms, Markov chain Monte Carlo, statistical data science, and empirical game theory. DSI’s Fair February: Cyrus Cousins, Ph.D. Feb 24 10:30am DSI’s Fair February: Lachlan Kermode 164 Angell Street, Providence, RI 02912 Fair February 2022 Lachlan Kermode Ph.D. Candidate, Modern Culture and Media, Brown University Software Research with Forensic Architecture Forensic Architecture (FA) is a research agency, based at Goldsmiths, University of London, investigating human rights violations including violence committed by states, police forces, militaries, and corporations. FA works in partnership with institutions across civil society, from grassroots activists to legal teams, to international NGOs and media organizations, to carry out investigations with and on behalf of communities and individuals affected by conflict, police brutality, border regimes, and environmental violence. This talk will speak to a selection of investigations conducted at and with Forensic Architecture that leverage skill sets associated with the computer and data sciences— such as machine learning and full-stack development— to indicate how interdisciplinary work might offer a critical way forward. Biography Lachlan Kermode is a Ph.D. Candidate in the Department of Modern Culture and Media at Brown University, and a Research Fellow at the research agency, Forensic Architecture (Goldsmiths, University of London). After receiving an undergraduate degree in Computer Science from Princeton University (2018), he worked for several years as a Software Researcher at Forensic Architecture and then as a Software Engineer, building cloud infrastructure for machine learning models. Kermode has also worked as a Mobile Developer and as a Full Stack Engineer. His current work is concerned with the political potential of open source and open hardware cultures, the history of computer science and software engineering as disciplinary practices, and the implications and impacts of computing as media at large. DSI’s Fair February: Lachlan Kermode Feb 24 10:00am DSI’s Fair February: Jessica Joan Finocchiaro 164 Angell Street, Providence, RI 02912 Fair February 2022 Jessica Joan Finocchiaro Ph.D. Candidate, Computer Science, University of Colorado-Boulder Bridging Mechanism Design and Machine Learning toward Algorithmic Fairness Decision-making systems increasingly orchestrate our world: how to intervene on the algorithmic components to build fair and equitable systems is, therefore, a question of utmost importance; one that is substantially complicated by the context-dependent nature of fairness and discrimination. Modern decision-making systems that involve allocating resources or information to people (e.g., school choice, advertising) incorporate machine-learned predictions in their pipelines, raising concerns about potential strategic behavior or constrained allocation, concerns usually tackled in the context of mechanism design. Although both machine learning and mechanism design have developed frameworks for addressing issues of fairness and equity, in some complex decision-making systems, neither framework is individually sufficient. In this paper, we develop the position that building fair decision-making systems requires overcoming these limitations which, we argue, are inherent to each field. Our ultimate objective is to build an encompassing framework that cohesively bridges the individual frameworks of mechanism design and machine learning. We begin to lay the groundwork towards this goal by comparing the perspective each discipline takes on fair decision-making, teasing out the lessons each field has taught and can teach the other, and highlighting application domains that require a strong collaboration between these disciplines. Biography: Jessica Joan Finocchiaro is a Ph.D. candidate in the CS Theory group at CU Boulder, working with Dr. Rafael Frongillo (and unofficially with Dr. Bo Waggoner as well). In general, my research interests intersect Theoretical Machine Learning, Algorithmic Game Theory, and Computational Economics. In particular, I am interested in decision-making in the midst of uncertainty, how the questions we ask affect what we learn [from people, machine learning algorithms], and how this uncertainty affects people. I typically study these questions through the lens of property elicitation. I was named as a 2019 National Science Foundation Graduate Research Fellow. DSI’s Fair February: Jessica Joan Finocchiaro Feb 23 2:00pm DSI’s Fair February: Lauren Klein, Ph.D. 164 Angell Street, Providence, RI 02912 Fair February 2022 Lauren Klein, Ph.D. Assistant Professor, English, Quantitative Theory and Methods, Emory University What is Feminist Data Science? How is feminist thinking being incorporated into data-driven work? How are scholars in the humanities and social sciences bringing together data science and feminist theory into their research? Drawing from her recent book, Data Feminism (MIT Press), co-authored with Catherine D’Ignazio, Dr. Klein presents a set of principles for doing data science that is informed by the past several decades of intersectional feminist activism and critical thought. In order to illustrate these principles, as well as some of the ways that scholars and designers have begun to put them into action, she will discuss a range of recent projects including several of her own: 1) a thematic analysis of a large corpus of nineteenth-century newspapers that reveal the invisible labor of women newspaper editors; 2) the development of a model of lexical semantic change that, when combined with network analysis, tells a new story about Black activism in the nineteenth-century US; and 3) an interactive book on the history of data visualization that shows how questions of politics have been present in the field since its start. Taken together, these examples demonstrate how feminist thinking can be operationalized into more ethical, intentional, and capacious data practices in the digital humanities, computational social sciences, human-computer interactions, and beyond. Biography Lauren Klein is a Winship Distinguished Research Professor and Associate Professor in the Departments of English and Quantitative Theory and Methods at Emory University, where she also directs the Digital Humanities Lab. She is the author of An Archive of Taste: Race and Eating in the Early United States (University of Minnesota Press, 2020) and, with Catherine D’Ignazio, Data Feminism (MIT Press, 2020). With Matthew K. Gold, she edits Debates in the Digital Humanities, a hybrid print-digital publication stream that explores debates in the field as they emerge. DSI’s Fair February: Lauren Klein, Ph.D. Feb 17 2:00pm - 5:00pm IDeA-CTR N3C Investigator Engagement Event: Jumpstarting Access to Clinical Data for COVID-19 Research This event will introduce the National COVID Cohort Collaborative (N3C) to IDeA-CTR members. The N3C aims to unite COVID-19 data, enabling innovative machine learning and statistical analyses that require a large amount of data – more than is available in any given institution. The goal is to enable rapid collaboration among clinicians, researchers, and data scientists to identify treatments, specialize care, and to reduce the overall severity of COVID-19. Keynote presentation by Dr. Christopher G. Chute, Bloomberg Distinguished Professor of Health Informatics and Professor of Medicine, Internal Medicine, Johns Hopkins University. Dr. Chute is a Co-Principal Investigator of N3C. The N3C Data Enclave is a secure platform through which harmonized clinical data provided by contributing members are stored. The Enclave includes demographic and clinical characteristics of patients who have been tested for or diagnosed with COVID-19, and further information about the strategies and outcomes of treatments for those suspected or confirmed to have the virus. IDeA-CTR N3C Investigator Engagement Event: Jumpstarting Access to Clinical Data for COVID-19 Research Biology, Medicine, Public Health, Education, Teaching, Instruction, Research, Training, Professional Development Feb 17 1:00pm - 2:00pm Carney Methods Meetup: Biomarker estimation in imaging Zoom Join the Carney Institute for Brain Science, in conjunction with Love Data Week, for a Carney Methods Meetup featuring Ani Eloyan, assistant professor of biostatistics at Brown, who will discuss methods for defining and estimating clinically relevant biomarkers, such as from longitudinal fMRI. Carney Methods Meetups are informal gatherings focused on methods for brain science, moderated by Jason Ritt, Carney’s scientific director of quantitative neuroscience. Videos and notes from previous Meetups are available on the Carney Institute website. Carney Methods Meetup: Biomarker estimation in imaging Biology, Medicine, Public Health, Psychology & Cognitive Sciences, Research Feb 17 1:00pm DSI’s Fair February: Neenu Sukumaran, MD 164 Angell Street, Providence, RI 02912 Fair February 2022 Neenu Sukumaran, MD Internal Medicine Resident, Roger Williams Medical Center Electronic Health Portal Usage Among Non-English Speakers and Older Adults Electronic Health Portals (EHPs) are valuable resources for patients and healthcare providers. They augment communication in a privacy-protected, healthcare setting. This is crucial in Rheumatology, where patients are managed long term. EHP use has been linked to improved patient outcomes and reduced healthcare costs. Our goal was to identify active users of EHPs from a single community-academic rheumatology practice in Providence, RI, and understand the factors driving individuals to use EHP, or any barriers that may prevent them from using it. Biography Dr. Sukumaran is a PGY-2 Internal Medicine Resident at Roger Williams Medical Center. She was born and brought up in India and obtained her medical degree from Calicut University. She has worked in India as a General Physician before moving to the US. She has been involved in medical research in neuropsychiatry before beginning her medical residency at Roger Williams Medical Center. Dr. Sukumaran’s area of interest lies in Rheumatology, with a particular interest in rheumatological diseases in women in the reproductive age group. DSI’s Fair February: Neenu Sukumaran, MD Feb 17 11:30am DSI’s Fair February: Andrew Huang 164 Angell Street, Providence, RI 02912 Fair February 2022 Andrew Huang Ph.D. Candidate, Health Services, Policy, and Practice, Brown University Misclassifying Race and Ethnicity: Challenges in Using Medicare Data for Health Disparities Research DSI’s Fair February: Andrew Huang Feb 17 11:00am DSI’s Fair February: Chien-Tzu Cheng 164 Angell Street, Providence, RI 02912 Fair February 2022 Chien-Tzu Cheng Ph.D. Candidate, Economics, Brown University From Doctors’ Offices to Homes: Impacts of Home Pregnancy Test Availability Home pregnancy tests first became available in the US local drugstores at the end of 1977, providing private, fast, and accurate pregnancy confirmation. Using county-level drugstore availability to approximate the home pregnancy test availability, this talk examines the impacts on fertility rates, early prenatal care, and female education outcomes. In an event study, it was found that significant trend breaks in fertility rates after 1977 among women aged 15-29 who had access to drugstores; the effects are the strongest among women aged 15-19. Evidence suggests that access to abortion services played a part in explaining the trend breaks among this population. No impact was detected on early prenatal care adoption trends. Furthermore, high school dropouts of the cohort which entered high school right after 1977 significantly declined by 6.7% in areas with greater access to abortion providers. Biography Chien-Tzu’s research interests include labor economics, health economics, family, and children. Her current project examines the impacts of home pregnancy tests available on fertility rates and early prenatal care adoption when this new technology first went on the US market in 1977. Chien-Tzu is from Taiwan. She enjoys traveling, cooking, and language learning. She also enjoys cleaning during times of stress. DSI’s Fair February: Chien-Tzu Cheng Feb 17 10:30am DSI’s Fair February: Monia Chopra, MD 164 Angell Street, Providence, RI 02912 Fair February 2022 Monia Chopra, MD Rheumatology Fellow, Rhode Island Hospital and Roger Williams Medical Center TITLE TBA DSI’s Fair February: Monia Chopra, MD Feb 16 2:30pm DSI’s Fair February: Aditi Bhowmick 164 Angell Street, Providence, RI 02912 Fair February 2022 Aditi Bhowmick Director, Development Data Lab Returns from an Open Data Approach: India, the Pandemic, and Beyond DSI’s Fair February: Aditi Bhowmick Feb 16 2:00pm DSI’s Fair February: Aashish Gupta, Ph.D. 164 Angell Street, Providence, RI 02912 Fair February 2022 Aashish Gupta, Ph.D. Postdoctoral Fellow, Demography, Harvard University Social Disadvantage and Life Expectancy in India India has one of the most rigid systems of social stratification in the world, yet little is known about how this system has shaped life expectancy in the country. This talk presents evidence from multiple related papers using large-scale survey data that mortality disparities in India are large, persistent, can be observed across the life course, and cannot be explained by differences in economic status between marginalized social groups and privileged social groups. These findings reveal a pressing need for explicitly challenging social inequalities in health in India. Biography Aashish is a demographer and currently a David E. Bell Fellow at the Harvard Center for Population and Development Studies. He earned his Ph.D. in Demography and Sociology at the University of Pennsylvania and an MA in Development Studies from the Indian Institute of Technology-Madras. His research uses demographic and field methods to examine interrelations between health, environment, and inequality in India. He was awarded the Dorothy Thomas Award by the Population Association of America, and a Civil Registration and Vital Statistics Fellowship by the International Union for the Scientific Study of Population. DSI’s Fair February: Aashish Gupta, Ph.D. Feb 14 12:00pm - 1:00pm Statistics C.V. Starr Lecture | Kristian Lum, PhD Zoom Dr. Kristian Lum, Senior Staff Machine Learning Researcher at Twitter Closer Than They Appear: A Bayesian Perspective on Individual-level Heterogeneity in Risk Assessment Risk assessment instruments are used across the criminal justice system to estimate the probability of some future behavior given covariates. The estimated probabilities are then used in making decisions at the individual level. In the past, there has been controversy about whether the probabilities derived from group-level calculations can meaningfully be applied to individuals. Using Bayesian hierarchical models applied to a large longitudinal dataset from the court system in the state of Kentucky, we analyze variation in individual-level probabilities of failing to appear for court and the extent to which it is captured by covariates. We find that individuals within the same risk group vary widely in their probability of the outcome. In practice, this means that allocating individuals to risk groups based on standard approaches to risk assessment, in large part, results in creating distinctions among individuals who are not meaningfully different in terms of their likelihood of the outcome. This is because uncertainty about the probability that any particular individual will fail to appear is large relative to the difference in average probabilities among any reasonable set of risk groups. Statistics C.V. Starr Lecture | Kristian Lum, PhD Biology, Medicine, Public Health, Graduate School, Postgraduate Education, Mathematics, Technology, Engineering, Research, Training, Professional Development Feb 10 1:00pm DSI’s Fair February: Isabella Bellezza-Smull 164 Angell Street, Providence, RI 02912 Fair February 2022 Isabella Bellezza-Smull Ph.D. Candidate, Political Science, Brown University Surveillance and the Globalization of Border Control in the 21st Century DSI’s Fair February: Isabella Bellezza-Smull Feb 10 11:30am DSI’s Fair February: Hayley Tsukayama 164 Angell Street, Providence, RI 02912 Fair February 2022 Hayley Tsukayama Legislative Activist, Electronic Frontier Foundation Nerd Smarter, Not Harder: Why Policymaking Needs Technologists DSI’s Fair February: Hayley Tsukayama Feb 10 11:00am DSI’s Fair February: Lelia Marie Hampton 164 Angell Street, Providence, RI 02912 Fair February 2022 Lelia Marie Hampton Ph.D. Candidate, Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, MIT Artificial Intelligence Safety for Justice DSI’s Fair February: Lelia Marie Hampton Feb 10 10:30am DSI’s Fair February: Krystal Maughan 164 Angell Street, Providence, RI 02912 Fair February 2022 Krystal Maughan Ph.D. Candidate, Computer Science, University of Vermont Continual Audit of Individual Fairness in Deployed Classifiers via Prediction Sensitivity DSI’s Fair February: Krystal Maughan Feb 9 3:00pm DSI’s Fair February: Alexandria LeClerc 164 Angell Street, Providence, RI 02912 Fair February 2022 Alexandria LeClerc Ph.D. Candidate, Computer Science and Engineering, Oregon State University Applied Security and Privacy for Social Movements DSI’s Fair February: Alexandria LeClerc Feb 9 2:00pm - 3:00pm Carney Conversations: How we decide to love Zoom What does love do to our brains? Why do we fall in love? Why do we stay in love, and what makes us fall out of love? Valentine’s Day is just around the corner, and to mark the occasion, the Carney Institute is holding a conversation about how the brain is affected by love, featuring two Brown University scientists who study emotion and motivation. Debbie Yee, Ph.D. is a postdoctoral fellow in cognitive, linguistic and psychological sciences investigating the neural and computational mechanisms of interactions between motivation/affective processes, cognitive control and value-based decision-making. Joey Heffner is a Ph.D. candidate in psychology investigating emotions. He received a graduate award in 2020 from the Carney Institute for a project to understand when and how emotions facilitate or impair social decision-making. This conversation will be moderated by Diane Lipscombe, Reliance Dhirubhai Ambani Director of the Carney Institute, and Christopher Moore, associate director of the Carney Institute. Carney Conversations: How we decide to love Biology, Medicine, Public Health, Psychology & Cognitive Sciences, Research Feb 9 2:00pm DSI’s Fair February: Sucheta Ghoshal, Ph.D. 164 Angell Street, Providence, RI 02912 Fair February 2022 Sucheta Ghoshal, Ph.D. Assistant Professor, Human-Centered Design and Engineering, University of Washington Critical Technology Practice: Raging Whiteness and/as Technology DSI’s Fair February: Sucheta Ghoshal, Ph.D. Feb 3 All Day Application Deadline: Pilot Projects Program Call for Applications! Apply for the 2022 Advance-CTR Pilot Projects Program. We’re funding five to eight projects for one-year research awards in two categories: Proposals with a single PI may apply for $37,500 in direct costs. Proposals involving multi-PIs from different disciplines may apply for up to $75,000 in direct costs. About the Pilots The Pilot Projects Program brings investigators together from institutions across the state to develop interdisciplinary collaborations that span the translational research spectrum. The program funds a variety of research that addresses Rhode Island’s health challenges and community health priorities. Key Dates & Deadlines January 14, 2022: Last day to schedule calls with leadership February 3, 2022: Preliminary applications due April 4, 2022: Invited, full proposals due The anticipated performance period is August 1, 2022 to July 31, 2023. Application Resources Don’t go at it alone. Schedule a call with our program leadership to discuss your questions, read up on the eight elements of a successful preliminary application, get tips for preparing your application, and review two examples from investigators who have successfully applied to the program. Application Deadline: Pilot Projects Program Biology, Medicine, Public Health, Research, Training, Professional Development Feb 2 1:00pm CDH Seminar - Emoji or the Medical Community: Representation, Patient Reported Outcomes, and Information Theory Zoom Emoji occupies the same status as the English letter A, or pictorial Chinese symbols within a universal system called Unicode. This code allows common agreement and translation of language between all devices worldwide, and is the common code for All Apple, Android, Twitter, Facebook, Microsoft, and even most Electronic Medical Records today. In 2019, the Emoji were accepted into Unicode and are available on devices worldwide, but today there still is still no liver, kidney, or spine emoji. When we ask about sharp/stabbing, thunderclap, pounding, or fiery pain, we are communicating and transmitting meaning from one person to another. Emoji, and thus digital medicine, can help communicate with patients in a modern, inclusive, and accessible way. Come learn about the fight for inclusion and representation for more medical Emoji, and how Emoji, as a pictorial communication method, can serve as a global open-source visual analogue scale for digital information. Shuhan He, MD is a dual faculty member in the Department of Emergency Medicine and Lab of Computer Science at Massachusetts General Hospital. He is Director for Digital Growth Strategy at the MGH Center for Innovation in Digital Healthcare (CIDH) and an Instructor of Medicine at Harvard Medical School. He was the author of the Anatomic heart and lung Emoii that are available now on mobile devices worldwide and senior author of a JAMA article entitled Emoji for the Medical Community, describing the importance of Emoji in medicine. Please note that this virtual event, including attendees’ Zoom video, audio and screen name, and questions or chats, will be recorded. All or portions of the event recording may be shared through the Center for Digital Health’s digital channels. Individuals who do not want their identities to be captured are solely responsible for turning off their camera, muting their microphone and/or adjusting their screen name accordingly. By attending this event, you consent to your name, voice, and/or image being recorded and to CDH reproducing, distributing and otherwise displaying the recording, within its sole discretion. CDH Seminar - Emoji or the Medical Community: Representation, Patient Reported Outcomes, and Information Theory Biology, Medicine, Public Health, Graduate School, Postgraduate Education, Mathematics, Technology, Engineering, Research Jan 31 12:00pm - 1:00pm Statistics C.V. Starr Lecture | Amy Herring, PhD Zoom Dr. Amy Herring PhD, Sara and Charles Ayres Distinguished Professor of Statistical Science and Research Professor of Global Health at Duke University Informative Priors for Clustering Based on challenges in a large national study of birth defects, we consider a canonical problem in epidemiology of “lumping” versus “splitting” of groups. In many cases, groups may be unknown in advance, adding the additional challenge of determining group or cluster membership. While there is a very rich literature proposing Bayesian approaches for clustering starting with a prior probability distribution on partitions, most approaches assume exchangeability. Even though there have been some proposals to relax the exchangeability assumption, allowing covariate-dependence and partial exchangeability, limited consideration has been given on how to include concrete prior knowledge on the partition itself. For example, we are motivated by an epidemiological application, in which we wish to cluster birth defects into groups and we have prior knowledge of an initial clustering, provided by experts. As a general approach for including such prior knowledge, we propose a Centered Partition (CP) process. Some properties of the CP prior are described, a general algorithm for posterior computation is developed, and we illustrate the methodology through simulation examples and an application to the motivating epidemiology study of birth defects. Statistics C.V. Starr Lecture | Amy Herring, PhD Biology, Medicine, Public Health, Graduate School, Postgraduate Education, Mathematics, Technology, Engineering, Research, Training, Professional Development Jan 24 12:00pm - 1:00pm Statistics Seminar Series | Tamara Broderick, PhD Zoom Tamara Broderick, PhD, Associate Professor in the Department of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science at MIT An Automatic Finite-Sample Robustness Metric: Can Dropping a Little Data Change Conclusions? One hopes that data analyses will be used to make beneficial decisions regarding people’s health, finances, and well-being. But the data fed to an analysis may systematically differ from the data where these decisions are ultimately applied. For instance, suppose we analyze data in one country and conclude that microcredit is effective at alleviating poverty; based on this analysis, we decide to distribute microcredit in other locations and in future years. We might then ask: can we trust our conclusion to apply under new conditions? If we found that a very small percentage of the original data was instrumental in determining the original conclusion, we might expect the conclusion to be unstable under new conditions. So we propose a method to assess the sensitivity of data analyses to the removal of a very small fraction of the data set. Analyzing all possible data subsets of a certain size is computationally prohibitive, so we provide an approximation. We call our resulting method the Approximate Maximum Influence Perturbation. Our approximation is automatically computable, theoretically supported, and works for common estimators — including (but not limited to) OLS, IV, GMM, MLE, MAP, and variational Bayes. We show that any non-robustness our metric finds is conclusive. Empirics demonstrate that while some applications are robust, in others the sign of a treatment effect can be changed by dropping less than 0.1% of the data — even in simple models and even when standard errors are small. Statistics Seminar Series | Tamara Broderick, PhD Biology, Medicine, Public Health, Graduate School, Postgraduate Education, Mathematics, Technology, Engineering, Research, Training, Professional Development Jan 19 1:00pm CDH Seminar - Better than Humans: Building AI that is less prejudice, more fair Zoom The biggest threat to the adoption of artificial intelligence (AI) in healthcare is the concern that training algorithms on real world data will encrypt societal, institutional and individual biases, legitimize them and propagate them at scale. At present, the evaluation metric for machine learning in healthcare is accuracy. But just because an algorithm is accurate does not mean it should be implemented. If all that matters is accuracy, then algorithms developed using real-world data will encrypt the biases and prejudice that taint clinical decision-making. In an ideal world, only patient health and disease factors would determine — and guide the prediction of — clinical outcomes. However, studies have repeatedly demonstrated that this is far from the case. Women with heart attacks have worse outcomes when cared for by male cardiologists. Black newborns have better outcomes when their pediatricians are Black. Outcomes from sepsis are worse in hospitals that disproportionately treat minority patients after adjusting for illness severity and other confounders. To prevent AI from encoding social and cultural biases, we would like to predict an outcome if the world were fair, and the quality of care is the same across populations. We need algorithms that are better than humans - less prejudiced and more fair. Dr. Leo Celi is the clinical research director and principal research scientist at the MIT Laboratory for Computational Physiology (LCP), and a practicing intensive care unit (ICU) physician at the Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center (BIDMC). In his work, Leo brings together clinicians and data scientists to support research using data routinely collected in the process of care. His group built and maintains the publicly-available Medical Information Mart for Intensive Care (MIMIC) database and the Philips-MIT eICU Collaborative Research Database, with more than 25,000 users from around the world. In addition, Leo is one of the course directors for HST.936 – global health informatics to improve quality of care, and HST.953 – collaborative data science in medicine, both at MIT. He is an editor of the textbook for each course, both released under an open access license. “Secondary Analysis of Electronic Health Records” has been downloaded more than a million times, and has been translated to Mandarin, Spanish, Korean and Portuguese. He is the inaugural editor of PLOS Digital Health. Please note that this virtual event, including attendees’ Zoom video, audio and screen name, and questions or chats, will be recorded. All or portions of the event recording may be shared through the Center for Digital Health’s digital channels. Individuals who do not want their identities to be captured are solely responsible for turning off their camera, muting their microphone and/or adjusting their screen name accordingly. By attending this event, you consent to your name, voice, and/or image being recorded and to CDH reproducing, distributing and otherwise displaying the recording, within its sole discretion. CDH Seminar - Better than Humans: Building AI that is less prejudice, more fair Biology, Medicine, Public Health, Entrepreneurship, Graduate School, Postgraduate Education, Mathematics, Technology, Engineering, Research Jan 10 9:00am Holistic Design of Time-Dependent PDE Discretizations 121 South Main Street The workshop aims to spur a holistic approach to the design of time-dependent PDE discretizations, particularly in terms of developing time integration techniques that are intertwined with spatial discretization techniques, focusing on: generalized ImEx methods, asymptotic-preserving and structure-preserving methods, methods that exploit low-rank dynamics, analysis of order reduction, parallel in time methods, and performant, maintainable, extensible software implementations. Recent decades have seen increasing use of first-principles-based simulations via time-dependent partial differential equations (PDE), with applications in astrophysics, climate science, weather prediction, marine science, geosciences, life science research, defense, and more. Growing computational capabilities have augmented the importance of sophisticated high-order and adaptive methods over “naive’” low-order methods. However, there are fundamental challenges to achieving truly high order and full efficiency in space-time that are yet to be overcome. Many advances in temporal and spatial discretization methods have been made independently, by employing techniques in which each part can be developed and analyzed in isolation. However, as spatial discretization methods have become more sophisticated, accurate, efficient, and specialized, computational scientists are finding that temporal integration, in particular, the interface between temporal and spatial discretization, is a source of bottlenecks that limit practical applications. As a response, myriad problem-specific time-stepping approaches have been devised in recent years, but with little feedback to or from the time integration community. This isolated development has led to a “bag of tricks” situation that will benefit from a more systematic perspective. The workshop will address these challenges by bringing together time integration specialists with numerical PDE specialists and experts in high-performance numerical computing. Holistic Design of Time-Dependent PDE Discretizations (Institute for Computational and Experimental Research in Mathematics (ICERM)) Mathematics, Art, STEM, Research, Mathematics, Technology, Engineering Dec 15 1:00pm CDH Seminar - Cheeseburger Therapy: Peer-to-Peer Internet Therapy for Everyone Zoom Humans naturally want to help each other, but modern society traps “mental health” behind expensive bureaucracies. Cheeseburger Therapy teaches ordinary people the skills of Cognitive Behavioral Therapy and provides structured oversight to make it safe for them to help other humans through the internet—and get paid doing so. Cheeseburger Therapy began as research at the University of Washington but is now a functioning community that changes real human lives. In this talk we will show three innovations that make it possible: A novel version of Cognitive Behavioral Therapy, custom-designed for the internet, embedded in a User Interface that breaks the therapeutic process into a flowchart of steps that can be taught to ordinary humans, tracked by a computer, and evaluated as a reliable method for changing someone’s life. A research platform for developing new therapeutic methods, by A/B testing them within practicing online community and evaluating results against a baseline. The platform features a novel design for text-chat that increases both empathy and anonymity, increasing signal and reducing noise within experiments. A novel interactive peer-to-peer training system that can teach ordinary humans, in about 20 hours, to provide consistently helpful therapeutic conversations. Helpers improve their emotional listening, learn new thought skills, and gain the opportunity to graduate and make money helping people. Michael Toomim is a Computer Scientist trained at the University of Washington and the University of California at Berkeley, who currently works at the Invisible College in Berkeley. He has expertise in Human-Computer Interaction, and has worked in Cognitive Psychology, Social Computing, Data Synchronization, and Programming Tools. His PhD thesis defined the first measurable approach to Attention Economics. He currently co-leads the Cheeseburger Therapy and Braid projects. Please note that this virtual event, including attendees’ Zoom video, audio and screen name, and questions or chats, will be recorded. All or portions of the event recording may be shared through the Center for Digital Health’s digital channels. Individuals who do not want their identities to be captured are solely responsible for turning off their camera, muting their microphone and/or adjusting their screen name accordingly. By attending this event, you consent to your name, voice, and/or image being recorded and to CDH reproducing, distributing and otherwise displaying the recording, within its sole discretion. CDH Seminar - Cheeseburger Therapy: Peer-to-Peer Internet Therapy for Everyone Biology, Medicine, Public Health, Graduate School, Postgraduate Education, Psychology & Cognitive Sciences Dec 9 12:00pm - 1:00pm Translational Research Seminar Series The Advance-CTR Translational Research Seminar Series showcases clinical and translational research from across Rhode Island. Presentations, followed by feedback, allow presenters the opportunity to refine and strengthen their research. Seminars are held virtually on the second Thursday of each month. This month: Tracie Shea, PhD: “Treatment of Anger Problems in OEF/OIF Veterans: Results of a Randomized Controlled Trial” Liz Chen, PhD: Presentation title TBA Registration will be available soon. Translational Research Seminar Series Biology, Medicine, Public Health, Research, Training, Professional Development Dec 9 10:30am - 12:30pm VR Slowdown: Something Different for Reading Period Granoff Center for the Creative Arts Drop-in at any time between 10:30am -12:30pm Need a fun and inspiring way to start off reading period this semester? Why not come by and give Virtual Reality a try! We will be demoing some popular VR applications in our Occulus Quest 2 headsets. No experience necessary. Just bring yourself and your imagination! VR Slowdown: Something Different for Reading Period Dec 8 4:00pm Data Science Research Seminar: Linking Human Evolutionary History to Phenotypic Variation 85 Waterman Street, Providence RI 02909 Featuring Arun Durvasula Postdoctoral Research Fellow, Departments of Genetics and Human Evolutionary Biology, Harvard Medical School LINKING HUMAN EVOLUTIONARY HISTORY TO PHENOTYPIC VARIATION A central question in genetics asks how genetic variation influences phenotypic variation. The distribution of genetic variation in a population is reflective of the evolutionary forces that shape and maintain genetic diversity such as mutation, natural selection, and genetic drift. In turn, this genetic variation affects molecular phenotypes like gene expression and eventually leads to variation in complex traits. In this talk, I will discuss how both ancient and recent evolutionary events have shaped the patterns of genetic and phenotypic variation observed in populations today. Arun is a Postdoctoral Research Fellow in the Department of Genetics at Harvard Medical School and the Department of Human Evolutionary Biology, where he is co-advised by David Reich and Alkes Price. Previously, he was an NSF graduate research fellow at UCLA in the Department of Human Genetics working with Kirk Lohmueller and Sriram Sankararaman. His research focuses on developing statistical methods to understand patterns of genetic variation. Website: arundurvasula.github.io This talk will be recorded. Refreshments will be served. Data Science Research Seminar: Linking Human Evolutionary History to Phenotypic Variation Dec 7 3:00pm - 4:00pm Advancing Research Careers Program Virtual Open House Zoom The Carney Institute for Brain Science is launching a new Advancing Research Careers Program for early career investigators at Brown University and its affiliated hospitals. Please join the program’s leadership team for a virtual open house on Tuesday, December 7, at 3 p.m. to learn about the program, its objectives and application process. Please see the attached Call for Applications for program details and application information. About the program The Carney Institute’s Advancing Research Careers (ARC) program aims to advance the research careers of women and persons historically excluded due to ethnicity and race in brain sciences at the level of advanced postdoctoral scholars and junior faculty. ARC is funded by an R25 award from NINDS and will support a cohort of up to six highly qualified participants each year through structured mentorship, research support and activities that contribute to successful neuroscience research careers. In this two-year program, selected ARC Scholars will advance a research project while expanding their mentorship network, meeting regularly with the ARC Scholar cohort, and attending professional development and quantitative skills training to advance their career goals. Advancing Research Careers Program Virtual Open House Advising, Mentorship, Biology, Medicine, Public Health, Graduate School, Postgraduate Education, Mathematics, Technology, Engineering, Psychology & Cognitive Sciences, Research, Training, Professional Development Dec 6 12:00pm - 1:00pm Statistics Seminar Series | Dr. Li-Xuan Qin 121 South Main Street Dr. Li-Xuan Qin, Associate Member in Biostatistics; PhD in biostatistics; Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Transcriptomics Data Normalization: Let’s Put It into Context This talk will describe an assessment of transcriptomics data normalization (for removing artifacts due to inconsistent experimental handling in data collection) in the context of downstream analysis. With robustly benchmarked data and novel re-sampling-based simulations, I will illustrate several caveats of data normalization for biomarker discovery, sample classification, and survival prediction. I will then discuss the underlying causes for these caveats and provide alternative approaches that are more effective for dealing with the data artifacts. Statistics Seminar Series | Dr. Li-Xuan Qin Biology, Medicine, Public Health, Graduate School, Postgraduate Education, Mathematics, Technology, Engineering, Research, Training, Professional Development Dec 1 4:00pm Data Science Research Seminar: Indigenous DNA & Data Sovereignties in Genomic & Precision Medicine Featuring KRYSTAL TSOSIE Co-Founder, Native BioData Consortium INDIGENOUS DNA AND DATA SOVEREIGNTIES IN GENOMIC AND PRECISION MEDICINE Indigenous people still constitute <1% of participants in precision and genomic medicine research despite endeavors to increase inclusivity. Past ethical issues related to Indigenous genomics have not been adequately reconciled and are now being repeated in the new era of Big Data. Concerns persist about the collectivization of Indigenous data into open-access databases that circumvent tribal research oversight, the underestimation of socioeconomic and cultural factors contributing to health disparities, and continued biocommercial exploitation of Indigenous biomarkers. Krystal will describe community-engaged research in two tribal communities and describe paths forward that center Indigenous people as the agents of access for their own genomic and health data. The future of Indigenous genomics is not mere inclusion but through recognition of Indigenous genomic and data sovereignty. Krystal Tsosie (Diné/Navajo), MPH, MA, is completing her Ph.D. in Genomics and Health Disparities at Vanderbilt University. As a geneticist-bioethicist, she co-founded the Native BioData Consortium, the first US Indigenous-led biobank, and 501c3 nonprofit institution. Her research centers on an ethical engagement with Indigenous communities in genomics and precision health. Utilizing dual quantitative and qualitative methods, she incorporates biostatistics, genetic epidemiology, public health, and computational approaches to disparities in, particularly, women’s health. Krystal’s research and educational endeavors have received international media attention in The Washington Post, NPR, New York Times, The Atlantic, Forbes, Boston Globe, among others. This talk will be recorded. Data Science Research Seminar: Indigenous DNA & Data Sovereignties in Genomic & Precision Medicine Dec 1 2:15pm - 3:15pm Special Seminar: Critical Brain Dynamics: From Theoretical Ideas to Practical Neuromarkers Sidney E. Frank Hall for Life Sciences Oren Shriki, Ph.D. Department of Cognitive and Brain Sciences Ben-Gurion University of the Negev, Israel Abstract The critical brain hypothesis proposes that our brain is poised close to the border between two qualitatively different dynamical states. Whereas sub-critical dynamics are characterized by premature termination of activity propagation, super-critical dynamics are associated with runaway excitation. The talk will review evidence from recent years regarding this hypothesis and introduce the concept of neuronal avalanches, spatiotemporal cascades of activity whose sizes obey a power-law distribution. They are observed in a wide range of experiments from small-scale cortical networks to large-scale human EEG and MEG and are considered as evidence for critical brain dynamics. The avalanche analysis provides novel measures which reflect the underlying neural gain and are sensitive to changes in the balance of excitatory and inhibitory processes. Consequently, deviations from critical dynamics could serve as neuromarkers for disorders associated with altered balance. The utility of such neuromarkers will be demonstrated in several contexts, including epilepsy, prolonged wakefulness, schizophrenia, and disorders of consciousness. Special Seminar: Critical Brain Dynamics: From Theoretical Ideas to Practical Neuromarkers Biology, Medicine, Public Health, Psychology & Cognitive Sciences, Research Dec 1 12:00pm DSI Lecture: danah boyd BioMed PLEASE NOTE THE LOCATION CHANGE FOR THIS LECTURE. WE HAVE MOVED THE TALK TO BIOMED 291. Featuring danah boyd Partner Researcher, Microsoft Research Founder and President, Data and Society Distinguished Visiting Professor, Georgetown University Visiting Professor, NYU STATISTICAL IMAGINARIES: AN ODE TO RESPONSIBLE DATA SCIENCE Data Science is increasingly being used to ground decision-making in both industry and public life. As data become significant and powerful, people who rely on those data come to expect certain things from all the data. All too often, data are expected to be precise, neutral, and objective. Those data are expected to speak with confidence—and not reveal their limitations. Left unchecked, data become illusory in the minds of many. Drawing on her research into the 2020 US Census, danah boyd will discuss how illusions surrounding data can be weaponized. She will highlight how the US Census Bureau’s decision to embrace differential privacy as part of its system to protect statistical confidentiality upended what people imagined the work of data to be. She will then turn to discuss the importance of grappling with uncertainty and limitations as a key part of responsible data science. danah boyd is a Partner Researcher at Microsoft Research, the founder and president of Data & Society, a Distinguished Visiting Professor at Georgetown University, and a Visiting Professor at New York University. Her research focuses on the intersection of technology and society, with an eye to how structural inequities shape and are shaped by technologies. She is currently conducting a multi-year ethnographic study of the US census to understand how data are made legitimate. Her previous studies have focused on media manipulation, algorithmic bias, privacy practices, social media, and teen culture. Her monograph “It’s Complicated: The Social Lives of Networked Teens” has received widespread praise. She is a Director of both Crisis Text Line and Social Science Research Council, a member of the Council on Foreign Relations, and on the advisory board of Electronic Privacy Information Center. She received a bachelor’s degree in Computer Science from Brown University, a master’s degree from the MIT Media Lab, and a Ph.D. in Information from the University of California, Berkeley. This talk will be recorded. Pizza and refreshments will be served. DSI Lecture: danah boyd Nov 30 10:30am - 11:30am Carney Conversations: Getting a jump on Alzheimer’s disease Zoom Join the Carney Institute for a conversation about early diagnosis and risk factors in Alzheimer’s disease, featuring: Yu-Wen Alvin Huang, M.D., GLF Translational Assistant Professor of Molecular Biology, Cell Biology and Biochemistry Hwamee Oh, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Psychiatry and Human Behavior and Cognitive, Linguistic and Psychological Sciences This conversation will be moderated by Diane Lipscombe, Reliance Dhirubhai Ambani Director of the Carney Institute, and Christopher Moore, associate director of the Carney Institute. Please register below to receive the Zoom link. Carney Conversations: Getting a jump on Alzheimer’s disease Biology, Medicine, Public Health, Psychology & Cognitive Sciences, Research Nov 22 12:15pm - 1:00pm Statistics Seminar Series | Dr. Jonathan Bartlett Virtual Dr. Jonathan Bartlett PhD, Reader in Statistics, Department of Mathematical Sciences, University of Bath, England Hypothetical estimands in clinical trials - a unification of causal inference and missing data methods In clinical trials events may take place which complicate interpretation of the treatment effect. For example, in diabetes trials, some patients may require rescue medication during follow-up if their diabetes is not well controlled. Interpretation of the intention to treat effect is then complicated if the level of rescue medication is imbalanced between treatment groups. In such cases we may be interested in a so-called hypothetical estimand which targets what effect would have been seen in the absence of rescue medication. In this talk I will discuss estimation of such hypothetical estimands. Currently such estimands are typically estimated using standard missing data techniques after exclusion of any outcomes measured after such events take place. I will define hypothetical estimands using potential outcomes, and exploit standard results for identifiability of causal effects from observational data to describe assumptions sufficient for identification of hypothetical estimands in trials. I will then discuss both ‘causal inference’ and ‘missing data’ methods (such as mixed models) for estimation, and show that in certain situations estimators from these two sets are identical. These links may help those familiar with one set of methods but not the other. They may also identify situations where currently adopted estimation approaches may be relying on unrealistic assumptions, and suggest alternative approaches for estimation. Statistics Seminar Series | Dr. Jonathan Bartlett Biology, Medicine, Public Health, Graduate School, Postgraduate Education, Mathematics, Technology, Engineering, Research, Training, Professional Development Nov 18 2:00pm Carney Methods Meetup: Is UMAP a lie? Carney Institute for Brain Science Note: You may also attend this event via Zoom (Meeting ID: 978 5998 6393 | Passcode: 451768). This workshop requires you to be logged into Zoom through your Brown account. Carney Methods Meetups are informal gatherings focused on methods for brain science, moderated by Jason Ritt, Carney’s scientific director of quantitative neuroscience. Carlos Vargas-Irwin, assistant professor (research) of neuroscience, and Tommy Hosman, research engineer at BrainGate, will join Ritt in an open discussion of current debates over the validity and interpretation of some leading methods (UMAP, t-SNE) of data dimensionality reduction. While application of dimensionality reduction to neuroscience data is important and ubiquitous, the methods are challenging to understand, with few analytic guarantees on the results. Some recent papers raise questions about whether these methods are doing what practitioners think they are doing. Videos and notes from previous meetups are available on the Carney Institute website. Carney Methods Meetup: Is UMAP a lie? Biology, Medicine, Public Health, Psychology & Cognitive Sciences, Research Nov 17 2:00pm Data Science Initiative Research Seminar Series: Sydney Skybetter 164 Angell Street, Providence, RI 02912 SYDNEY SKYBETTER Senior Lecturer in Theatre Arts and Performance Studies, Associate Chair of Theatre Arts and Performance Studies, Brown University DO YOU LOVE ME: THE UNCANNY, DANCERLY FUTURE OF CHOREOROBOTICS Professor of Choreography and Emerging Technologies, Sydney Skybetter, narrates the choreographic history that bridges dancing military robots, surveillant software platforms, and centuries-old French notation practices. Through analyses of ballet history and contemporary robotics manufacturer Boston Dynamics, Skybetter sketches out the risks and opportunities of the emerging, interdisciplinary field of choreorobotics, and gives an advanced preview of a new course he will co-teach in 2022 titled Choreorobotics 0101. Sydney Skybetter is a choreographer, public speaker, consultant, writer, and teacher. His dances have been performed at the Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts, NYU Tisch School for the Arts, SUNY Purchase, Boston Center for the Arts, Dartmouth College, Skidmore College, and various other festivals and workshops. He is a sought-after and highly caffeinated speaker who draws on his experiences in choreography to argue for the primacy of dance and embodied knowledge to understand emerging phenomena in the fields of design, technology, and surveillance. He works with clients to facilitate teams and consult on human-computer interfaces, curriculum development, ethics pertaining to body-centered technologies, change management, and choreographies. Some of his clients include Sotheby’s, the National Ballet of Canada, Hasbro, NYU, Bloomberg Philanthropies, and USC among others. His writings have been published in Wired, Jacob’s Pillow Dance Interactive, and MIT’s Open Documentary Lab. Sydney is currently a Public Humanities Fellow, Senior Lecturer, and the Associate Chair of Theatre Arts and Performance Studies at Brown University, where his teaching spans the dance studio and seminar room to explore the choreographies at the intersection of dance, computation, spectatorship, and surveillance. Data Science Initiative Research Seminar Series: Sydney Skybetter Nov 11 12:00pm - 1:00pm Translational Research Seminar Series The Advance-CTR Translational Research Seminar Series showcases clinical and translational research from across Rhode Island. Presentations, followed by feedback, allow presenters the opportunity to refine and strengthen their research. Seminars are held virtually on the second Thursday of each month. This month: Ami Vyas, PhD: “Are We ‘Choosing Wisely’ and Improving Value in Cancer Care?” Registration will be available soon. Translational Research Seminar Series Biology, Medicine, Public Health, Research, Training, Professional Development Nov 10 4:00pm Data Science Initiative Seminar: Suresh Venkatasubramanian (DSI, CS) 85 Waterman Street, Providence RI 02909 Featuring SURESH VENKATASUBRAMANIAN Computer Science and Data Science, Brown University Introduction by RICHARD M. LOCKE Provost, Brown University MACHINE READABLE: THE POWER AND LIMITS OF ALGORITHMS THAT ARE SHAPING SOCIETY Algorithms have infiltrated our society, imposing their own frame of reference on how we conduct ourselves, how we interact with others, and how we are judged. They’ve turbocharged inequality and biases. They’ve accelerated the balkanization of the landscape of ideas, making it easier and easier to live within suffocatingly homogeneous ideological and cultural bubbles. Our obsession with technology has brought out the worst in us while trying to bring out the best. But it’s done a whole lot more. The story of the algorithmic society is not about how the widespread deployment of technology creates distortions in the world. It is about a particular mindset—an algorithmic lens—that has quietly reframed how we think about society itself. In this talk, I’ll describe the elements of this lens—precision, scale, homogeneity, and consistency. I’ll illustrate how many of the problems we encounter with technology come from the distorting effect of this lens. And I’ll also argue (perhaps surprisingly) that the lens still has much to offer, as long as we can understand where it is most effective and where it is not. Suresh Venkatasubramanian is a faculty member in computer science and data science, currently on loan to the White House in the Office of Science and Technology Policy. His background is in theoretical computer science, and he’s taken a long and winding path through many areas of data science. For almost the past decade, he’s been interested in algorithmic fairness, and more broadly the impact of automated decision-making systems in society. All views expressed in this talk are solely his own and do not represent the perspectives of any of the institutions with which he is affiliated. Register Here Data Science Initiative Seminar: Suresh Venkatasubramanian (DSI, CS) Nov 5 1:00pm - 1:50pm BigAI Talk: David Held, CMU: “Perceptual Robot Learning” Watson Center for Information Technology (CIT) Zoom link for those choosing to join virtually: https://brown.zoom.us/j/99968764917 Add to calendar: Google Calendar Abstract: Robots today are typically confined to interact with rigid, opaque objects with known object models. However, the objects in our daily lives are often non-rigid, can be transparent or reflective, and are diverse in shape and appearance. One reason for the limitations of current methods is that computer vision and robot planning are often considered separate fields. I argue that, to enhance the capabilities of robots, we should design state representations that consider both the perception and planning algorithms needed for the robotics task. I will show how we can develop novel perception and planning algorithms to assist with the tasks of manipulating cloth, manipulating novel objects, and grasping transparent and reflective objects. By thinking about the downstream task while jointly developing perception and planning algorithms, we can significantly improve our progress on difficult robots tasks. Bio: David Held is an assistant professor at Carnegie Mellon University in the Robotics Institute and is the director of the RPAD lab: Robots Perceiving And Doing. His research focuses on perceptual robot learning, i.e. developing new methods at the intersection of robot perception and planning for robots to learn to interact with novel, perceptually challenging, and deformable objects. David has applied these ideas to robot manipulation and autonomous driving. Prior to coming to CMU, David was a post-doctoral researcher at U.C. Berkeley, and he completed his Ph.D. in Computer Science at Stanford University. David also has a B.S. and M.S. in Mechanical Engineering at MIT. David is a recipient of the Google Faculty Research Award in 2017 and the NSF CAREER Award in 2021. Host: Stefanie Tellex BigAI Talk: David Held, CMU: “Perceptual Robot Learning” Nov 3 4:00pm DSI Research Seminar: The Lingering Effects of Neanderthal Introgression on Human Complex Traits APRIL WEI, Ph.D. Postdoctoral Researcher, UCLA (2021); Assistant Professor, Cornell University (2022) THE LINGERING EFFECTS OF NEANDERTHAL INTROGRESSION ON HUMAN COMPLEX TRAITS Despite a decade of investigation, the biological consequences of the archaic introgression on present-day humans are not fully understood. Compared to the rest of the genetic variants, archaic introgressed variants have lower allele frequencies and higher linkage disequilibrium scores, making statistical genetic analyses more challenging. To accurately assess the phenotypic impact of introgressed variants, we used 60 genome-wide UK Biobank size simulations with 20 different genetic architectures to benchmark the power and calibration of statistical genetic methods. We then apply suitable methods to analyze 235,592 Neanderthal introgressed mutations across 96 phenotypes using the white British data from the UK Biobank. Compared to modern human SNPs, none of the 96 studied phenotypes have enriched heritability in Neanderthal introgressed variants. In addition, about one-third of the phenotypes have a marginally depleted introgressed heritability, consistent with purifying selection on introgressed variants. Despite that, introgressed variants still contribute to phenotypic variation in studied phenotypes. Using Bayesian statistical fine-mapping, we identified 110 credible sets where introgressed variants have causal phenotypic effects (FDP = 0.156). Lastly, we report evidence for pleiotropy, additive phenotypic effect, and epistasis in the putatively causal introgressed variants. April Wei is currently a postdoctoral researcher at UCLA working on population and statistical genetics in light of archaic introgression. She will join the Department of Computational Biology at Cornell University as an Assistant Professor in January 2022. Her broad interests in evolutionary genetics and human population genetics as well as her training in modeling were initiated in college at Fudan University. She loves theoretical challenges, computational techniques, and application opportunities, and is obsessed with the coalescent theory. Connect with April on Twitter @AprilWei001. This event is hosted by Emilia Huerta-Sanchez and Kelsey Witt-Dillon. DSI Research Seminar: The Lingering Effects of Neanderthal Introgression on Human Complex Traits Nov 3 3:15pm - 4:00pm LeaRRn Webinar: Pilot Study RFA Informational Webinar Interested in being funded by LeaRRn? On November 3rd, LeaRRn will host informational webinars for those interested in becoming a LeaRRn Pilot Awardee or LHS Scholar. Register here for the Pilot Program Informational webinar, and look for the companion LHS Scholar Informational webinar. LeaRRn Webinar: Pilot Study RFA Informational Webinar Nov 3 1:00pm - 1:45pm LeaRRn Webinar: LHS Scholar RFA Informational Webinar Interested in being funded by LeaRRn? On November 3rd, LeaRRn will host informational webinars for those interested in becoming a LeaRRn Pilot or LHS Scholar. Register here for the LHS Scholar Informational webinar, and look for the companion Pilot Program Informational webinar. LeaRRn Webinar: LHS Scholar RFA Informational Webinar Nov 3 11:00am - 12:30pm November Academic Grand Rounds Virtual Implementation Science: Driving Health Policy Change in Learning Health Systems Amy Kilbourne, Ph.D., MPH Associate Chair for Research Professor of Learning Health Sciences Director, Quality Enhancement Research Initiative (QUERI) U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs Faculty, U-M Institute for Healthcare Policy and Innovation (IHPI) Wednesday, November 3, 2021◊ 11:00 am - 12:30 pm November Academic Grand Rounds Biology, Medicine, Public Health, Education, Teaching, Instruction, Mathematics, Technology, Engineering, Physical & Earth Sciences, Psychology & Cognitive Sciences, Research, Social Sciences Nov 1 12:00pm - 1:00pm Statistics Seminar Series | Dr. Jean Feng Virtual Dr. Jean Feng, Assistant Professor, Department of Epidemiology and Biostatistics, University of California, San Francisco (UCSF) Safe approval policies for continual learning systems in healthcare The number of machine learning (ML)-based medical devices approved by the US Food and Drug Administration (FDA) has been rapidly increasing. The current regulatory policy requires these algorithms to be locked post-approval; subsequent changes must undergo additional scrutiny. Nevertheless, ML algorithms have the potential to improve over time by training over a growing body of data, better reflect real-world settings, and adapt to distributional shifts. To facilitate a move toward continual learning algorithms, the FDA is looking to streamline regulatory policies and design Algorithm Change Protocols (ACPs) that autonomously approve proposed modifications. However, the problem of designing ACPs cannot be taken lightly. We show that policies without error rate guarantees are prone to “bio-creep” and may not protect against distributional shifts. To this end, we investigate the problem of ACP design within the frameworks of online hypothesis testing and online learning and take the first steps towards developing safe ACPs. Statistics Seminar Series | Dr. Jean Feng Biology, Medicine, Public Health, Graduate School, Postgraduate Education, Mathematics, Technology, Engineering, Research, Training, Professional Development Oct 28 4:00pm REDCap Workshop: Features, Tips, & Tricks Need help with REDCap? Regular workshops are available through our BERD Core to all RI investigators. Join us on Thursday, October 28 for a new virtual workshop on REDCap’s features, as well as tips and tricks for using REDCap for your research. REDCap Workshop: Features, Tips, & Tricks Biology, Medicine, Public Health, Research, Training, Professional Development Oct 27 4:00pm - 5:00pm Machine Learning Series: Joe Hogan, ScD Join Advance-CTR and the Data Science Initiative at Brown for this 5-part series exploring machine learning, its methodology, and application in biomedicine and health. The purpose of this series is to serve as an introduction to machine learning for researchers, clinician scientists, and others who may be interested in using these methods in their research. Wednesday, October 27 Joe Hogan, ScD : “The Role of Machine Learning in Predictive and Causal Inference” Many machine learning methods can be formulated as complex but flexible statistical models. A common and important use of the models is to generate accurate predictions from a large set of covariates. When prediction is the goal, machine learning methods can learn prediction rules that involve interactions, nonlinearities, and other characteristics of the prediction function that would be difficult to know in advance. In this talk I demonstrate the utility of machine learning for generating causal inferences. For large-scale observational data, causal inference typically requires the correct specification of one or more component models for the purpose of confounder adjustment. This applies to propensity score methods, inverse probability weighting, regression adjustment, and standardization. The component models are not usually of direct interest, but in cases where there are many potential confounders they can be difficult to specify in advance. I will first describe the key differences between predictive and causal inference. Then, using a couple of examples from HIV and infectious disease research, I will illustrate how machine learning algorithms that can be formulated as ‘proper’ statistical models play a key role in the process of generating causal inferences. About the Speaker Professor Hogan’s research concerns the development and application of statistical methods for large-scale observational missing data. He is interested in causal inference, missing data, and quantifying uncertainty associated with untestable assumptions. Nearly all of his work is motivated by applications in HIV/AIDS and infectious disease. For the past several years he has co-led an NIH-funded international training program designed to build research capacity in biostatistics at Moi University in Kenya. Machine Learning Series: Joe Hogan, ScD Biology, Medicine, Public Health, Research, Training, Professional Development Oct 20 4:00pm - 5:00pm Machine Learning Series: Ruotao Zhang, MSc & Dilum Aluthge Join Advance-CTR and the Data Science Initiative at Brown for this 5-part series exploring machine learning, its methodology, and application in biomedicine and health. The purpose of this series is to serve as an introduction to machine learning for researchers, clinician scientists, and others who may be interested in using these methods in their research. Wednesday, October 20, 2021 Ruotao Zhang, MSc: “Role of Calibration in Uncertainty-based Referral for Deep Learning” The uncertainty in predictions from deep neural network analysis of medical imaging is challenging to assess but potentially important to include in subsequent decision making. Using data from diabetic retinopathy detection, we present an empirical evaluation of model performance and the impact of uncertainty-based referral, an approach that prioritizes referral of observations based on the magnitude of a measure of uncertainty. We consider several configurations of network architecture, method for uncertainty estimation, and training data size. We identify a strong relationship between the effectiveness of uncertainty-based referral and having a well-calibrated model. This is especially relevant as complex deep neural networks tend to have high calibration errors. Finally, we provide evidence that post-calibration of the neural network can improve uncertainty-based referral. Dilum Aluthge, MD, PhD student: “Supervised Machine Learning Workflows for Electronic Health Records” Supervised machine learning can be used to develop clinical decision support systems for use in electronic health records (EHRs). The first portion of the talk will provide an overview of the supervised machine learning workflow. The second portion will present an example application of classification using EHR data, specifically the problem list and medication list from a patient’s chart. Optional Readings: 1. Rajkomar A, Dean J, Kohane I. Machine Learning in Medicine. N Engl J Med. 2019 Apr 4;380(14):1347-1358. doi: 10.1056/NEJMra1814259. PMID: 30943338. 2. Sinha I, Aluthge DP, Chen ES, Sarkar IN, Ahn SH. Machine Learning Offers Exciting Potential for Predicting Postprocedural Outcomes: A Framework for Developing Random Forest Models in IR. J Vasc Interv Radiol. 2020 Jun;31(6):1018-1024.e4. doi: 10.1016/j.jvir.2019.11.030. Epub 2020 May 4. PMID: 32376173. About the Speakers Ruotao Zhang is a PhD student in the Department of Biostatisticsunder the supervision of Dr Steingrimsson and Dr Gatsonis. Before coming to the US, he worked as a data scientist at China Resources Holdings. Ruotao graduated from University of Oxford with a MSc in Applied Statistics, and before that he obtained a BSc in Mathematics from Imperial College London. His research interests focus on statistical machine learning methods with application to biomedical data. Dilum Aluthge is an MD/PhD student at the Brown Center for Biomedical Informatics, Center for Computational Molecular Biology and the Warren Alpert Medical School. His advisors are Dr. Neil Sarkar and Dr. Liz Chen. His research focuses on the theoretical concepts of learning health systems as well as the practical considerations of their implementation. Specific areas of interest include machine learning, clinical decision support, health information exchange, standards and interoperability, and physiologic reserve. Dilum earned his Bachelor of Science in Applied Mathematics at Brown. He is the co-creator of the PredictMD machine learning framework, which is implemented in the Julia programming language. He is also the founder of the JuliaHealth open source organization. Machine Learning Series: Ruotao Zhang, MSc & Dilum Aluthge Biology, Medicine, Public Health, Research, Training, Professional Development Oct 14 4:00pm - 5:00pm Introduction to REDCap Workshop Introduction to REDCap Workshop Presented by: Sarah B. Andrea, PhD, MPH Geared toward new or novice REDCap users, this class answers “What” REDCap is, “Why” you want to use it, and goes through the entire lifecycle of a REDCap project – from initial setup to data entry and to exporting your data. About the Instructor Sarah B. Andrea, PhD, MPH, is a research scientist with the Lifespan Biostatistics Core at Rhode Island Hospital. In addition to providing design and statistical oversight and mentorship, she also conducts research investigating strategies to mitigate race-, class-, and gender-based inequities in health throughout the life course. Dr. Andrea has been working with REDCap for five years. Introduction to REDCap Workshop Biology, Medicine, Public Health, Research, Training, Professional Development Oct 14 4:00pm - 5:00pm Introduction to REDCap Workshop Introduction to REDCap Workshop Presented by: Sarah B. Andrea, PhD, MPH Geared toward new or novice REDCap users, this class answers “What” REDCap is, “Why” you want to use it, and goes through the entire lifecycle of a REDCap project – from initial setup to data entry and to exporting your data. About the Instructor Sarah B. Andrea, PhD, MPH, is a research scientist with the Lifespan Biostatistics Core at Rhode Island Hospital. In addition to providing design and statistical oversight and mentorship, she also conducts research investigating strategies to mitigate race-, class-, and gender-based inequities in health throughout the life course. Dr. Andrea has been working with REDCap for five years. Introduction to REDCap Workshop Biology, Medicine, Public Health, Research, Training, Professional Development Oct 13 4:00pm - 5:00pm Machine Learning Series: Yichi Zhang, PhD Join Advance-CTR and the Data Science Initiative at Brown for this 5-part series exploring machine learning, its methodology, and application in biomedicine and health. The purpose of this series is to serve as an introduction to machine learning for researchers, clinician scientists, and others who may be interested in using these methods in their research. Wednesday, October 13, 2021: Yichi Zhang, PhD: “Interpretable Individualized Treatment Rules Using Decision Lists” Precision medicine is currently a topic of great interest in clinical science. One typical way to formalize precision medicine is through an individualized treatment rule, which is a sequence of rules, one per each stage of intervention, that map up-to-date patient information to a recommended treatment. An optimal individualized treatment rule is defined as maximizing the mean of some cumulative clinical outcome if applied to a population of interest. In many settings, estimation of an optimal individualized treatment rule is an exploratory analysis intended to generate new hypotheses for subsequent research and not to directly dictate treatment to new patients. In such settings, a rule that is interpretable in a domain context may be of greater value than an unintelligible one built using “black-box” methods. In this talk, I will present a causal inference framework for estimating an optimal individualized treatment rule and discuss its connection to reinforcement learning. Then, I will describe an estimator of an optimal and interpretable rule, which is expressible as a list of “if-then” statements that can be presented as either a paragraph or as a simple flowchart that is immediately interpretable to domain experts. The proposed method will be illustrated using a clinical trial dataset. About the Speaker Yichi Zhang is an assistant professor in the Department of Computer Science and Statistics at the University of Rhode Island. He received his PhD in Statistics from North Carolina State University and received postdoctoral training at Harvard School of Public Health. His research focuses on data-driven decision-making and sequential causal inference with applications to biomedical problems. Machine Learning Series: Yichi Zhang, PhD Biology, Medicine, Public Health, Research, Training, Professional Development Oct 8 12:00pm - 1:00pm Machine Learning Series: Roberta De Vito, PhD Join Advance-CTR and the Data Science Initiative at Brown for this 5-part series exploring machine learning, its methodology, and application in biomedicine and health. The purpose of this series is to serve as an introduction to machine learning for researchers, clinician scientists, and others who may be interested in using these methods in their research. Friday, October 8, 2021: Roberta De Vito, PhD : “Cross-Study Machine Learning Techniques: Reproducibility and Differences Across Studies” Biostatistics and computational biology are increasingly facing the urgent challenge of efficiently dealing with a large amount of experimental data. In particular, high-throughput assays are transforming the study of biology, as they generate a rich, complex, and diverse collection of high-dimensional data sets. Through compelling statistical analysis, these large data sets lead to discoveries, advances and knowledge that were never accessible before, via compelling statistical analysis. Building such systematic knowledge is a cumulative process which requires analyses that integrate multiple sources, studies, and technologies. The increased availability of ensembles of studies on related clinical populations, technologies, and genomic features poses four categories of important multi-study statistical questions: 1) To what extent is biological signal reproducibly shared across different studies? 2) How can this global signal be extracted? 3) How can we detect and quantify local signals that may be masked by strong global signals? 4) How do these global and local signals manifest differently in different data types? We will answer these four questions by introducing a novel class of methodologies for the joint analysis of different studies. The goal is to separately identify and estimate 1) common factors reproduced across multiple studies, and 2) study-specific factors. We present different medical and biological applications. In all the cases, we clarify the benefits of a joint analysis compared to the standard methods. Our method could accelerate the pace at which we can combine unsupervised analysis across different studies, and understand the cross-study reproducibility of signal in multivariate data. About the Speaker Roberta De Vito is a statistician with a passion for teaching and developing statistical tools for cancer research and disorder risk, with particular focus on epidemiology and genomics. Currently, she is Assistant Professor in the department of Biostatistics and at the Data Science Initiative at Brown University. She completed her Ph.D. in Statistical Science at the University of Padua, advised by Giovanni Parmigiani at Harvard University where she developed her thesis work. The main research interest is latent variable model, Bayesian non parametric, variable selection via sparsity prior, machine learning and big data with particular focus on genomics and epidemiology. She was a postdoc at Princeton University in Barbara Engelhardt’s group where she developed Bayesian and latent variable discrete model in high-dimensional biological and epidemiological data. Her passion for teaching developed at Princeton University where she taught some classes and had the opportunity to mentor Master and PhD students. Some of her previous mentees are now pursuing successful research careers in biostatistics and data science also across Ivy League universities, like Harvard University, Princeton and MIT. Her website https://rdevito.github.io/web/ provides complete details. Machine Learning Series: Roberta De Vito, PhD Biology, Medicine, Public Health, Research, Training, Professional Development Oct 6 1:00pm - 1:50pm BigAI Talk: Siddharth Srivastava “Assistive AI and the Unusual Effectiveness of Abstractions” Watson Center for Information Technology (CIT) **This talk will be held both in-person in CIT 368, and through a virtual option: https://brown.zoom.us/j/93695915402 Meeting ID: 936 9591 5402** Abstract: Can we balance efficiency and reliability while designing assistive AI systems? What would such AI systems need to provide? In this talk I will present some of our recent work addressing these questions. In particular, I will show that a few fundamental principles of abstraction are surprisingly effective in designing efficient and reliable AI systems that can plan and act over multiple timesteps. Our results show that abstraction mechanisms are invaluable not only in improving the efficiency of sequential decision making, but also in developing AI systems that can explain their own behavior to non-experts, and in computing user-interpretable assessments of the limits and capabilities of Black-Box AI systems. I will also present some of our work on learning the requisite abstractions in a bottom-up fashion. Throughout the talk I will highlight the theoretical guarantees that our methods provide along with results from empirical evaluations featuring decision-support/digital AI systems and physical robots. Bio: Siddharth Srivastava is an Assistant Professor of Computer Science in the School of Computing and Augmented Intelligence at Arizona State University. Prof. Srivastava was a Staff Scientist at the United Technologies Research Center in Berkeley. Prior to that, he was a postdoctoral researcher in the RUGS group at the University of California Berkeley. He received his PhD in Computer Science from the University of Massachusetts Amherst. His research interests include robotics and assistive AI, with a focus on reasoning, planning, and acting under uncertainty. His work on integrated task and motion planning for household robotics has received coverage from international news media. He is a recipient of the NSF CAREER award, a Best Paper Award at the International Conference on Automated Planning and Scheduling (ICAPS) and an Outstanding Dissertation Award from the Department of Computer Science at UMass Amherst. He served as conference chair for ICAPS 2019 and currently serves as an Associate Editor for the Journal of AI Research. (Please note the speaker will deliver this talk virtually in CIT 368.) Host: George Konidaris BigAI Talk: Siddharth Srivastava “Assistive AI and the Unusual Effectiveness of Abstractions” Oct 6 12:00pm - 1:00pm Data for Good: Improving Humanitarian Mine Action Through Open Source Conflict Data Watson Institute for International and Public Affairs Since 2011, the use of explosive weapons has proliferated in Syria during the conflict. Due to a variety of factors, a percentage of these fail to detonate or are abandoned during the fighting. These explosive remnants of war (ERW), in addition to landmines and improvised explosive devices (IEDs), pose an enduring, multi-generational threat to a population long after the violence has stopped. While on the ground operations by humanitarian mine action (HMA) actors are among the most effective ways to deal with the physical threat of ERW, landmine, and IED contamination, this is not always possible due to various restrictions and instead, HMA actors turn to desk-based assessments involving data. In this presentation, Jonathan Robinson will discuss his experience working with the Carter Center to lead the development of an innovative methodology using open-source conflict data to infer where potential areas of explosive weapons contamination may be located. He will also present initial findings from this work that are featured in the latest edition of the Journal for Conventional Weapons Destruction. Jonathan Robinson specializes in aid worker security and conflict analysis. He has previously focused on Syria through his work as a senior researcher for the Carter Center’s Syria Conflict Resolution Program and as a safety advisor for the International NGO Safety Organization’s (INSO) Syria team. Prior to joining the humanitarian sector, Jonathan worked as a security analyst for a British private security company in Qatar, the United Arab Emirates, and southern Iraq. He has also supported the United Nations Department of Safety and Security (UNDSS) in Syria, the Halo Trust’s Yemen Program, and Caritas Switzerland’s Jordan, Lebanon, and Syria Programs with advice and research. Jonathan holds a MSc in Islamic and Middle Eastern Studies from the University of Edinburgh and BA (honors) in Archaeology from Durham University. Data for Good: Improving Humanitarian Mine Action Through Open Source Conflict Data Oct 1 12:00pm - 1:00pm Machine Learning Series: Carsten Eickhoff, PhD Join Advance-CTR and the Data Science Initiative at Brown for this 5-part series exploring machine learning, its methodology, and application in biomedicine and health. The purpose of this series is to serve as an introduction to machine learning for researchers, clinician scientists, and others who may be interested in using these methods in their research. Friday, October 1, 2021: Carsten Eickhoff, PhD: “An Introduction to Machine Learning” This talk will introduce the basic components of machine learning systems and research papers and introduce the notion of casting inference problems in terms of features and labels. We will discuss supervised classification and regression techniques as well as altogether unsupervised learning schemes. We will have a look at reinforcement learning, model optimization and evaluation and close with a discussion of model generality and the curse of dimensionality. About the Speaker Dr. Eickhoff is an Assistant Professor of Medical and Computer Science at Brown University where he leads the Biomedical AI Lab, specializing in the development of data science and information retrieval techniques with the goal of improving patient safety, individual health and quality of medical care. Prior to joining Brown, he graduated from The University of Edinburgh and TU Delft, and was a postdoctoral fellow at ETH Zurich and Harvard University. Carsten has published more than 100 articles in computer science conferences (SIGIR, EMNLP, NAACL, WWW, KDD, WSDM, CIKM) and clinical journals (Nature Digital Medicine, The Lancet - Respiratory Medicine, Radiology, European Heart Journal). His research has been supported by the NSF, NIH, DARPA, IARPA, Google, Amazon, Microsoft and others. Aside from his academic endeavors, he is a founder and board member of several deep technology startups in the health sector that strive to translate technological innovation to improved safety and quality of life for patients. Machine Learning Series: Carsten Eickhoff, PhD Biology, Medicine, Public Health, Research, Training, Professional Development Sep 29 1:30pm - 3:00pm LeaRRn Grand Rounds: Lisa Juckett PhD, OTR/L, CHT presents Identifying Contextual Determinants & Implementation Strategies: Stakeholder-Engaged Initiatives to Improve Rehabilitation Research and Practice Lisa Juckett presents, Identifying Contextual Determinants & Implementation Strategies: Stakeholder-Engaged Initiatives to Improve Rehabilitation Research and Practice. This presentation will review two national-level initiatives, both guided by the Consolidated Framework for Implementation Research, that aim to advance the use of evidence in rehabilitation practice. This event is part of the LeaRRn series, “Using Health System Research to Revolutionize Rehabilitation Care.” LeaRRn Grand Rounds: Lisa Juckett PhD, OTR/L, CHT presents Identifying Contextual Determinants & Implementation Strategies: Stakeholder-Engaged Initiatives to Improve Rehabilitation Research and Practice Sep 24 12:00pm - 1:00pm Horizons Seminar: Marissa Kawehi Loving Speaker: Marissa Kawehi Loving, Assistant Professor, Georgia Institute of Technology Title: Where do I belong? Creating space in the math community. Abstract: I will tell (an abridged) story of my mathematical journey. I will be blunt about many of the ups and downs I have experienced and touch on some of the barriers I have encountered. I will also discuss some of the programs and spaces I have helped create in my quest to make the mathematics community into a place where folks from historically underrepresented groups (particularly women of color) can feel safe (from harassment and abuse), seen (as valued members of the mathematical community), and free to devote their energy to their work. If you have ever felt like you don’t belong or worried that you have made others feel that way, this talk is for you. Bio: Marissa Kawehi Loving is an NSF Postdoctoral Research Fellow and Visiting Assistant Professor in the School of Math at Georgia Tech. She graduated with her PhD in mathematics in August 2019 from the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign where she was supported by an NSF Graduate Research Fellowship and an Illinois Graduate College Distinguished Fellowship. Marissa was born and raised in Hawai’i where she completed her B.S. in Computer Science and B.A. in Mathematics at the University of Hawai’i at Hilo. She is the first Native Hawaiian woman to earn a PhD in mathematics. She is also Black, Puerto Rican, and Japanese. Her research interests are in geometry/topology, especially mapping class groups of surfaces (of both finite and infinite type). Marissa is also deeply invested in making the mathematics community a more equitable place. Some of her work includes mentoring undergraduate research (through programs such as [email protected], MSRI-UP, and the Georgia Tech School of Math’s REU) and co-organizing initiatives like SUBgroups and paraDIGMS. Horizons Seminar: Marissa Kawehi Loving Sep 24 10:00am - 11:00am Carney Conversations: Risk, Failure & Success: Finding the right balance Zoom What can academic scientists learn from the trading world to become more comfortable with taking measured risks in research? Join the Carney Institute for Brain Science for a lively discussion about finding the right balance between risk-taking, failure and success, featuring two members of the President’s Advisory Council for the Carney Institute who are leading innovators in the trading and investing world. Nancy Zimmerman, a 1985 Brown graduate, a trustee of the University’s Corporation and the co-founder and managing partner of Bracebridge Capital, a leading Boston-based hedge fund manager with over $12 billion under management Adam Korn, a 1997 Brown graduate and chief information officer at the $47 billion investment firm Sixth Street Partners This conversation will be moderated by Diane Lipscombe, Reliance Dhirubhai Ambani Director of the Carney Institute, and Christopher Moore, associate director of the Carney Institute. Get to Know the Speakers Nancy Zimmerman is co-founder and managing partner of Bracebridge Capital, a leading Boston-based hedge fund manager with over $12 billion under management. Bracebridge is a pioneer in the field of absolute return investing and for over 25 years has focused on generating returns that are largely uncorrelated with broad moves in equities, currencies and rates. Bracebridge manages private investment funds serving longstanding investors that include endowments, foundations, family offices and pensions. Zimmerman began her career at O’Connor & Associates and managed the interest rate option group on a worldwide basis for Goldman Sachs before founding Bracebridge. She earned an A.B. in Economics and the Practice and Production of Art from Brown University in 1985. Zimmerman is a Trustee of the Corporation of Brown University and the inaugural chair of the President’s Advisory Council for Brown’s Carney Institute for Brain Science. At other institutions — including the Transformative Scholars Program in Neurology at Massachusetts General Hospital and the Ragon Institute of MGH, MIT and Harvard — Zimmerman has led a series of initiatives that fund early-career investigators. During 2020, she helped fund and promote cutting-edge research on COVID-19. She is a member of the Board of Directors of Social Finance U.S., a nonprofit that tackles complex social challenges through innovative public private partnerships. Adam Korn is chief information officer at the $47 billion investment firm Sixth Street Partners. Previously, Korn was the global head of Securities Division Engineering at Goldman Sachs, focusing on Systematic Market Making and Marquee, the firm’s client-facing digital platform for institutional clients. He served as a member of the Securities Division Automated Trading Controls Committee, Partnership Committee and Firmwide Technology Risk Committee. Korn joined Goldman Sachs in 2002 as an associate in the Equity Derivatives Research Group, focusing on market microstructure research. In 2007, he led the team that won the Michael P. Mortara Award for Innovation. Korn was named managing director in 2008 and partner in 2010. Prior to joining the firm, Korn was the co-founder and chief financial officer of a software startup. He began his career in 1997 at Credit Suisse First Boston in Investment Banking. Adam serves as vice chairman of the Board of Trustees of the Bobby Jones Chiari & Syringomyelia Foundation and as a member of Brown’s Carney Institute for Brain Science Advisory Council. Carney Conversations: Risk, Failure & Success: Finding the right balance Biology, Medicine, Public Health, Psychology & Cognitive Sciences, Research Sep 20 12:00pm - 1:00pm Statistics Seminar Series | Dr. Amanda Mejia Virtual Dr. Amanda Meija, Assistant Professor, Department of Statistics, Indiana University Using empirical population priors to provide accurate subject-level insights into functional brain organization through template ICA Abstract: A primary objective in resting-state fMRI studies is localization of functional areas (i.e. resting-state networks) and the functional connectivity (FC) between them. These spatial and temporal properties of brain organization may be related to disease progression, development, and aging, making them of high scientific and clinical interest. Independent component analysis (ICA) is a popular tool to estimate functional areas and their FC. However, due to typically low signal-to-noise ratio and short scan duration of fMRI data, subject-level ICA results tend to be highly noisy and unreliable. Thus, group-level functional areas are often used in lieu of subject-specific ones, ignoring inter-subject variability in functional topology. These group-average maps also form the basis for estimating FC, leading to potential bias in FC estimates given the topological differences in underlying functional areas. An alternative to these two extremes (noisy subject-level ICA and one-size-fits-all group ICA) is Bayesian hierarchical ICA, wherein information shared across subjects is leveraged to improve subject-level estimation of spatial maps and FC. However, fitting traditional hierarchical ICA models across many subjects is computationally intensive. Template ICA is a computationally convenient hierarchical ICA framework using empirical population priors derived from large fMRI databases or holdout data. Template ICA produces more accurate and reliable estimates of subject-level functional areas compared with popular ad-hoc approaches. The flexible Bayesian framework also facilitates incorporating other sources of a-priori information. In this talk, I will describe the template ICA framework, as well as two extensions to the baseline model: the first incorporates spatial priors to leverage information shared across neighboring brain locations, and the second incorporates empirical population priors on the FC between functional areas. I will also present recent findings from a study of the effects of psilocybin (the prodrug compound found in “magic mushrooms”) on the organization of the thalamus. Bio: Mandy Mejia is an assistant professor in the Department of Statistics at Indiana University. Her research aims to develop statistical techniques to extract accurate individual insights from functional MRI data, which is noisy, big and complex. Her group pursues this goal in three primary ways: (1) developing computationally efficient Bayesian techniques, which leverage information shared across space and across individuals to produce more accurate estimates at the individual level; (2) developing statistically principled noise-reduction techniques, and (3) analyzing data on the cortical surface and subcortical gray matter to facilitate spatial modeling and improve inter-subject alignment. Her group has developed several software tools to facilitate cortical surface and Bayesian analysis of fMRI data in R. Statistics Seminar Series | Dr. Amanda Mejia Biology, Medicine, Public Health, Graduate School, Postgraduate Education, Mathematics, Technology, Engineering, Research, Training, Professional Development Sep 14 All Day Application Deadline: Pilot Projects Program Call for Applications! Apply for the Advance-CTR Pilot Projects Program. We’re funding five to eight projects for one-year research awards in two categories: Proposals with a single PI may apply for $37,500 in direct costs. Proposals involving multi-PIs from different disciplines may apply for up to $75,000 in direct costs. About the Pilots The Pilot Projects Program brings investigators together from institutions across the state to develop interdisciplinary collaborations that span the translational research spectrum. The program funds a variety of research that addresses Rhode Island’s health challenges and community health priorities. Key Dates & Deadlines August 31, 2021: Last day to schedule calls with leadership September 14, 2021: Preliminary applications due November 8, 2021: Invited, full proposals due The anticipated performance period is February 1, 2022 to January 30, 2023. Application Resources Don’t go at it alone. Schedule a call with our program leadership to discuss your questions, read up on the eight elements of a successful preliminary application, get tips for preparing your application, and review two examples from investigators who have successfully applied to the program. Application Deadline: Pilot Projects Program Biology, Medicine, Public Health, Research, Training, Professional Development Sep 13 12:00pm - 12:50pm Statistics Seminar Series | Dr. Alyssa Bilinski 121 South Main Street Dr. Alyssa Bilinski, Brown University, Department of Health Services, Policy & Practice O Decision Tree, O Decision Tree: Interpretable classification metamodels for health policy (w/Nicolas Menzies, Jeffrey Eaton, John Giardina, and Joshua Salomon) Over the past decade, researchers have developed a rich set of metamodeling techniques for complex decision analytic models. These create parsimonious model emulators, improving the tractability of computationally-intensive analyses. However, such techniques typically focus on reproducing a full model, requiring high fidelity to the full space of parameters and outcomes, and can be difficult to interpret. In this paper, we use decision tree classifiers to create metamodels of policy-important binary outcomes. We first detail methods to fit and test classifiers optimizing out-of-sample performance, to upsample strategically in regions of high uncertainty, and to develop and test interpretable decision rules for policymakers. We apply these to a previously published agent-based simulation model of COVID-19 transmission in schools, with >99% out-of-sample predictive validity and minimal training data requirements. We compare the identified decision rules to those proposed by policymakers and to output from alternative metamodels. Our approach can reduce the computational and analytic burden of creating a metamodel, optimize performance for decisions of interest and comparability across models, and provide interpretable, easy-to-update summaries for policymakers Statistics Seminar Series | Dr. Alyssa Bilinski Biology, Medicine, Public Health, Graduate School, Postgraduate Education, Mathematics, Technology, Engineering, Research, Training, Professional Development Sep 9 12:00pm - 1:00pm Translational Research Seminar Series The Advance-CTR Translational Research Seminar Series showcases clinical and translational research from across Rhode Island. Presentations, followed by feedback, allow presenters the opportunity to refine and strengthen their research. Seminars are held virtually on the second Thursday of each month. This month: Chris Schmid, PhD: “Personalizing Healthcare Experiments Using N-of-1 Designs” Registration will be available soon. Translational Research Seminar Series Biology, Medicine, Public Health, Research, Training, Professional Development Sep 9 9:00am - 10:00am Introduction to REDCap Workshop Introduction to REDCap Workshop Presented by: Sarah B. Andrea, PhD, MPH Geared toward new or novice REDCap users, this class answers “What” REDCap is, “Why” you want to use it, and goes through the entire lifecycle of a REDCap project – from initial setup to data entry and to exporting your data. About the Instructor Sarah B. Andrea, PhD, MPH, is a research scientist with the Lifespan Biostatistics Core at Rhode Island Hospital. In addition to providing design and statistical oversight and mentorship, she also conducts research investigating strategies to mitigate race-, class-, and gender-based inequities in health throughout the life course. Dr. Andrea has been working with REDCap for five years. Introduction to REDCap Workshop Biology, Medicine, Public Health, Psychology & Cognitive Sciences, Research, Training, Professional Development Sep 9 9:00am - 10:00am Introduction to REDCap Workshop Introduction to REDCap Workshop Presented by: Sarah B. Andrea, PhD, MPH Geared toward new or novice REDCap users, this class answers “What” REDCap is, “Why” you want to use it, and goes through the entire lifecycle of a REDCap project – from initial setup to data entry and to exporting your data. About the Instructor Sarah B. Andrea, PhD, MPH, is a research scientist with the Lifespan Biostatistics Core at Rhode Island Hospital. In addition to providing design and statistical oversight and mentorship, she also conducts research investigating strategies to mitigate race-, class-, and gender-based inequities in health throughout the life course. Dr. Andrea has been working with REDCap for five years. Introduction to REDCap Workshop Biology, Medicine, Public Health, Psychology & Cognitive Sciences, Research, Training, Professional Development Aug 23 All Day Prediction and Variability of Air-Sea Interactions: the South Asian Monsoon 121 South Main Street A challenge for mathematical modeling, from toy dynamical system models to full weather and climate models, is applying data assimilation and dynamical systems techniques to models that exhibit chaos and stochastic variability in the presence of coupled slow and fast modes of variability. Recent collaborations between universities and government agencies in India and the United States have resulted in detailed observations of oceanic and atmospheric processes in the Bay of Bengal, the Arabian Sea, and the Indian Ocean, collectively observing many coupled modes of variability. One key target identified by these groups was the improvement of forecasts of variability of the summer monsoon, which significantly affects agriculture and water management practices throughout South Asia. The Monsoon Intraseasonal Oscillation is a northward propagating mode of precipitation variability and is one of the most conspicuous examples of coupled atmosphere-ocean processes during the summer monsoon. Simulating coupled atmosphere-ocean processes present mathematical challenges spanning numerical methods, data assimilation, stochastic modeling, dynamical systems and chaos, and uncertainty quantification. Predicting monsoon variability is one of the hardest, most important forecasting problems on earth due to its impact on billions of people, a key aspect of the desire to push weather forecasts into the management-actionable “medium-range” horizon of weeks to seasons. Addressing this challenge requires an interdisciplinary effort to combine observations, computation, and theory. A better understanding of these processes and how they can be represented in a variety of coupled ocean-atmosphere simulations and models (including statistical and dynamical approaches) and forecast systems (including data assimilation techniques and uncertainty quantification) is the primary topic of this workshop. While the set of observations to be discussed will emphasize this region, the mathematical and computational aspects of the program will be significantly broader, covering: coupled ocean-atmosphere modeling for weather models, climate models and idealized models; theory of the atmospheric and oceanic boundary layers, and waves on the interface; data assimilation in coupled modeling systems; and numerical methods for coupled systems. Prediction and Variability of Air-Sea Interactions: the South Asian Monsoon (Institute for Computational and Experimental Research in Mathematics (ICERM)) Mathematics, Art, STEM, Research, Mathematics, Technology, Engineering Aug 18 4:00pm REDCap Workshop: Introduction to e-Consent This workshop will cover the ins & outs of using REDCap for electronically consenting research participants and provide a guided demonstration of the e-Consent template. Participants will learn how to design and customize e-Consent surveys and learn best practices and common pitfalls to avoid. REDCap Workshop: Introduction to e-Consent Biology, Medicine, Public Health, REDCap, Research, Training, Professional Development Aug 4 4:00pm Introduction to REDCap Workshop Geared toward novice REDCap users, this class answers what REDCap is, why you want to use it, and goes through the entire lifecycle of a REDCap project – from initial setup to data entry and exporting your data. Introduction to REDCap Workshop Biology, Medicine, Public Health, Research, Training, Professional Development Jul 29 3:00pm - 4:00pm Info Session: Advance-K Career Development Program Join us for an informational webinar about the 2021 Advance-K Scholar Career Development Program. Program leadership will discuss what the program has to offer to prospective participants and how to submit a competitive application. Previous Scholars will share their experience with the program, and webinar attendees may ask questions about the program and application process. About the Program Advance-K is an intensive, 1-year program that trains investigators on how to prepare and submit a competitive NIH K award or equivalent by the end of the program. All investigators at Brown, URI, and the affiliated hospitals are eligible to apply (Deadline: September 3, 2021). Info Session: Advance-K Career Development Program Biology, Medicine, Public Health, Graduate School, Postgraduate Education, Research, Training, Professional Development Jul 27 3:00pm - 4:00pm Carney Conversations: The next generation of scientists on the future of brain science Zoom What does the next generation of scientists think of the future of brain science research? Brown University graduate students and a recent alum will join the Carney Institute on July 27 for an engaging conversation about their research experiences and where they think the field is headed. This event will feature: Kaitlyn Hajdarovic, Ph.D. candidate in the Neuroscience Graduate Program Marc Powell, postdoctoral associate at the University of Pittsburgh Department of Neurological Surgery. Powell received a Ph.D. in biomedical engineering from Brown in January 2021. Jae-Young Son, Ph.D. student in cognitive, linguistic and psychological sciences This conversation will be moderated by Diane Lipscombe, Reliance Dhirubhai Ambani Director of the Carney Institute, and Christopher Moore, associate director of the Carney Institute. Carney Conversations: The next generation of scientists on the future of brain science Biology, Medicine, Public Health, Graduate School, Postgraduate Education, Psychology & Cognitive Sciences, Research Jul 20 12:00pm REDCap Workshop: Introduction to e-Consent This workshop will cover the ins & outs of using REDCap for electronically consenting research participants and provide a guided demonstration of the e-Consent template. Participants will learn how to design and customize e-Consent surveys and learn best practices and common pitfalls to avoid. REDCap Workshop: Introduction to e-Consent Biology, Medicine, Public Health, Research, Training, Professional Development Jul 6 12:30pm Introduction to REDCap Workshop Geared toward novice REDCap users, this class answers what REDCap is, why you want to use it, and goes through the entire lifecycle of a REDCap project – from initial setup to data entry and exporting your data. Introduction to REDCap Workshop Biology, Medicine, Public Health, Research, Training, Professional Development Jul 6 9:00am Applications of Rough Paths: Computational Signatures and Data Science ICERM Rough path theory emerged as a branch of stochastic analysis to give an improved approach to dealing with the interactions of complex random systems. In that context, it continues to resolve important questions, but its broader theoretical footprint has been substantial. Most notable is its contribution to Hairer’s Fields-Medal-winning work on regularity structures. At the core of rough path theory is the so-called signature transform which, while being simple to define, has rich mathematical properties bringing in aspects of analysis, geometry, and algebra. Hambly and Lyons (Annals of Math, 2010) built upon earlier work of Chen, showing how the signature represents the path uniquely up to generalized reparameterizations. This turns out to have practical implications allowing one to summarise the space of functions on unparameterized paths and data streams in a very economical way. Over the past five years, a significant strand of applied work has been undertaken to exploit the mathematical richness of this object in diverse data science challenges from healthcare, to computer vision to gesture recognition. The log signature is becoming a powerful way to summarise the fine structure of a data stream in a neural net. The emergence of neural differential equations as an important tool in data science further deepens the connections with rough paths. This four-day workshop will bring together key expertise across disciplines to advance understanding on some of the most pressing and exciting challenges. The week will begin with five structured, tutorial-style lectures on the foundational aspects of signatures their use in data science and topics of broad appeal such as Neural Rough Differential Equations. During the rest of the week, the morning activities will be broadly based with the afternoons focusing on more technical talks with additional opportunities for small group/breakout sessions Applications of Rough Paths: Computational Signatures and Data Science (Institute for Computational and Experimental Research in Mathematics (ICERM)) Mathematics, Art, STEM, Research, Mathematics, Technology, Engineering Jun 21 9:00am REDCap Workshop: Introduction to e-Consent This workshop will cover the ins & outs of using REDCap for electronically consenting research participants and provide a guided demonstration of the e-Consent template. Participants will learn how to design and customize e-Consent surveys and learn best practices and common pitfalls to avoid. REDCap Workshop: Introduction to e-Consent Biology, Medicine, Public Health, Research, Training, Professional Development Jun 10 12:00pm Translational Research Seminar Series Zoom The Advance-CTR Translational Research Seminar Series showcases clinical and translational research from across Rhode Island. Presentations, followed by feedback, allow presenters the opportunity to refine and strengthen their research. Seminars are held virtually on the second Thursday of each month. June Jon Steingrimsson, PhD, and Issa Dahabreh, MD, ScD: “Transportability of Risk Prediction Models” Nan Li, PhD, and Kurt Pennell, PhD: “Cord Metabolome and Childhood Obesity and Cardiometabolic Disease Risk” Details: June 10, 2021 at 12 p.m. ET. Translational Research Seminar Series (Advance-CTR) Biology, Medicine, Public Health, Entrepreneurship, Mathematics, Technology, Engineering, Psychology & Cognitive Sciences, Research, Training, Professional Development May 26 4:00pm - 5:00pm Special Seminar: “How brain circuits function in health and disease: Understanding brain-wide current flow” Zoom Please join the Carney Institute for Brain Science for a special seminar featuring Kanaka Rajan, Ph.D., assistant professor at Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai. Brown authentication is required. Special Seminar: “How brain circuits function in health and disease: Understanding brain-wide current flow” Biology, Medicine, Public Health, Psychology & Cognitive Sciences, Research May 19 4:00pm DSI & CCMB Special Talk: Roberta De Vito Zoom Link - Available on 5/19 at 4:00 pm ROBERTA DE VITO Assistant Professor of Data Science and Biostatistics MULTI-STUDY FACTOR ANALYSIS IN GENOMIC AND EPIDEMIOLOGICAL DATA Biostatistics and computational biology are increasingly facing the urgent challenge of efficiently dealing with a large amount of experimental data. In particular, high-throughput assays are transforming the study of biology, as they generate a rich, complex, and diverse collection of high-dimensional data sets. Through compelling statistical analysis, these large data sets lead to discoveries, advances, and knowledge that were never accessible before, via compelling statistical analysis. Building such systematic knowledge is a cumulative process which requires analyses that integrate multiple sources, studies, and technologies. The increased availability of ensembles of studies on related clinical populations, technologies, and genomic features poses four categories of important multi-study statistical questions: 1) To what extent is biological signal reproducibly shared across different studies? 2) How can this global signal be extracted? 3) How can we detect and quantify local signals that may be masked by strong global signals? 4) How do these global and local signals manifest differently in different data types? We will answer these four questions by introducing a novel class of methodologies for the joint analysis of different studies. The goal is to separately identify and estimate 1) common factors reproduced across multiple studies, and 2) study-specific factors. We present different medical and biological applications. In all the cases, we clarify the benefits of a joint analysis compared to the standard methods. Our method could accelerate the pace at which we can combine unsupervised analysis across different studies, and understand the cross-study reproducibility of signal in multivariate data. Please note that this virtual event, including attendees’ Zoom video, audio and screen name, and questions or chats, will be recorded. All or portions of the event recording may be shared through Brown University’s digital channels. Individuals who do not want their identities to be captured are solely responsible for turning off their camera, muting their microphone, and/or adjusting their screen name accordingly. By attending this event, you consent to your name, voice, and/or image being recorded and to Brown University reproducing, distributing, and otherwise displaying the recording, within its sole discretion. DSI & CCMB Special Talk: Roberta De Vito May 13 12:00pm Translational Research Seminar Series Zoom This month’s Translational Research Seminar “Updates About and Opportunities from the COBRE Center for Central Nervous System Function” presented by Jerome Sanes, PhD Professor of Neuroscience, Director of MRI Facility. Register now. The Advance-CTR Translational Research Seminar Series showcases clinical and translational research from across Rhode Island. Presentations, followed by feedback, allow presenters the opportunity to refine and strengthen their research. Seminars are held virtually on the second Thursday of each month. Translational Research Seminar Series (Advance-CTR) Biology, Medicine, Public Health, Entrepreneurship, Mathematics, Technology, Engineering, Psychology & Cognitive Sciences, Research, Training, Professional Development May 12 4:00pm DSI & CCMB Special Talk: Brenda Rubenstein, Joukowsky Family Assistant Professor of Chemistry Zoom Link - Available on 5/12 at 4:00 pm BRENDA RUBENSTEIN Joukowsky Family Assistant Professor of Chemistry PREDICTING VIABILITY: HOW PROTEIN FOLDING, BINDING, AND DYNAMICS CORRELATE WITH FITNESS Please see the abstract PDF (linked on the left). DSI & CCMB Special Talk: Brenda Rubenstein, Joukowsky Family Assistant Professor of Chemistry Apr 27 3:00pm - 4:00pm Carney Conversations: CRISPR and the role of gene editing in neuroscience Zoom What is CRISPR? How does gene editing work? Join the Carney Institute for Brain Science for a conversation about the future of gene editing in neuroscience with Kate O’Connor-Giles, Provost’s Associate Professor of Brain Science at Brown University. This conversation will be moderated by Diane Lipscombe, Reliance Dhirubhai Ambani Director of the Carney Institute, and Christopher Moore, associate director of the Carney Institute. Watch previous conversations on the Carney Institute website. Carney Conversations: CRISPR and the role of gene editing in neuroscience Biology, Medicine, Public Health, Psychology & Cognitive Sciences, Research Apr 21 2:00pm DSI & CCMB Data Wednesday: Secretary and Online Matching Problems with Machine Learning Advice Zoom Link - Available on 4/21 at 2:00 pm PIETER KLEER Assistant Professor, Tilburg University SECRETARY AND ONLINE MATCHING PROBLEMS WITH MACHINE LEARNED ADVICE We study online selection problems in which the goal is to select a set of elements arriving online that maximize a given objective function. In our setting, we are given some (machine-learned) information regarding the optimal (offline) solution to the problem. Following a recent line of work, the goal is to incorporate this information in existing (constant-factor) approximation algorithms such that: One gets an improved approximation guarantee in case the machine-learned information is accurate; and One does not lose too much in the approximation guarantee of the original algorithm in case the information is highly inaccurate. In this talk, I will illustrate these concepts using the classical secretary problem, and discuss an extension to online bipartite matching. Joint work with Antonios Antoniadis, Themis Gouleakis, and Pavel Kolev. Appeared in NeurIPS 2020. BIOGRAPHY Pieter Kleer is an Assistant Professor at Tilburg University (The Netherlands) since April 1, 2021. He completed his Ph.D. at CWI (The Netherlands) supervised by Guido Schäfer, and after that was a Postdoctoral Researcher at the Max Planck Institute for Informatics (Germany) hosted by Kurt Mehlhorn. His research interests include algorithmic game theory, online approximation algorithms and approximate uniform sampling of combinatorial objects. Earlier this year, he received de Gijs de Leve award for his PhD thesis, which is awarded once every three years by the Dutch OR society. Please note that this virtual event, including attendees’ Zoom video, audio and screen name, and questions or chats, will be recorded. All or portions of the event recording may be shared through Brown University’s digital channels. Individuals who do not want their identities to be captured are solely responsible for turning off their camera, muting their microphone, and/or adjusting their screen name accordingly. By attending this event, you consent to your name, voice, and/or image being recorded and to Brown University reproducing, distributing, and otherwise displaying the recording, within its sole discretion. Data Wednesdays The Data Science Initiative joins the Center for Computational and Molecular Biology (CCMB) every Wednesday afternoon, 4 – 5 pm during the academic year to present lecturers in various mathematical and statistical fields worldwide, as well as local researchers on Brown’s campus. The aim is to provide students, staff, faculty, and visitors with an introduction to current research topics in the fields of data science, mathematics, statistics, and computer science. DSI & CCMB Data Wednesday: Secretary and Online Matching Problems with Machine Learning Advice Apr 14 4:00pm DSI & CCMB Data Wednesday: Geometric and Topological Graph Analysis for Machine Learning Applications Zoom Link - Available on 4/14 at 4:00 pm TINA ELIASSI-RAD Professor of Computer Science, Northeastern University GEOMETRIC AND TOPOLOGICAL GRAPH ANALYSIS FOR MACHINE LEARNING APPLICATIONS This talk has two parts: (1) geometric analysis for graph embedding and (2) topological analysis for graph distances. First, graph embedding seeks to build an accurate low-dimensional representation of a graph. This low-dimensional representation is then used for various downstream tasks such as link prediction. One popular approach is Laplacian Eigenmaps, which constructs a graph embedding based on the spectral properties of the Laplacian matrix of a graph. The intuition behind it, and many other embedding techniques, is that the embedding of a graph must respect node similarity: similar nodes must have embeddings that are close to one another. We dispose of this distance-minimization assumption. In its place, we use the Laplacian matrix to find an embedding with geometric properties (instead of spectral ones) by leveraging the simplex geometry of the graph. We introduce Geometric Laplacian Eigenmap Embedding (or GLEE for short) and demonstrate that it outperforms various other techniques (including Laplacian Eigenmaps) in the tasks of graph reconstruction and link prediction. This work is joint with Leo Torres and Kevin Chan, and was published in the Journal of Complex Networks in March 2020 (http://eliassi.org/papers/torres_jcn2020.pdf). Second, measuring graph distance is a fundamental task in graph mining. For graph distance, determining the structural dissimilarity between networks is an ill-defined problem, as there is no canonical way to compare two networks. Indeed, many of the existing approaches for network comparison differ in their heuristics, efficiency, interpretability, and theoretical soundness. Thus, having a notion of distance that is built on theoretically robust first principles and that is interpretable with respect to features ubiquitous in complex networks would allow for a meaningful comparison between different networks. We rely on the theory of the length spectrum function from algebraic topology, and its relationship to the non-backtracking cycles of a graph, in order to introduce the Non-Backtracking Spectral Distance (NBD) for measuring the distance between undirected, unweighted graphs. NBD is interpretable in terms of features of complex networks such as presence of hubs and triangles. We showcase the ability of NBD to discriminate between networks in both real and synthetic data sets. This work is joint with Leo Torres and Pablo Suarez-Serrato and was published in the Journal of Applied Network Science in June 2019 (http://eliassi.org/papers/appliednetsci19_nbd.pdf). BIOGRAPHY Tina Eliassi-Rad is a Professor of Computer Science at Northeastern University in Boston, MA. She is also a core faculty member at Northeastern’s Network Science Institute. Prior to joining Northeastern, Tina was an Associate Professor of Computer Science at Rutgers University; and before that, she was a Member of Technical Staff and Principal Investigator at Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory. Tina earned her Ph.D. in Computer Sciences (with a minor in Mathematical Statistics) at the University of Wisconsin-Madison. Her research is at the intersection of data mining, machine learning, and network science. She has over 100 peer-reviewed publications (including a few best papers and best paper runner-up awardees), and has given over 200 invited talks and 14 tutorials. Tina’s work has been applied to personalized search on the World-Wide Web, statistical indices of large-scale scientific simulation data, fraud detection, mobile ad targeting, cyber situational awareness, and ethics in machine learning. Her algorithms have been incorporated into systems used by the government and industry (e.g., IBM System G Graph Analytics) as well as open-source software (e.g., Stanford Network Analysis Project). In 2017, Tina served as the program co-chair for the ACM SIGKDD International Conference on Knowledge Discovery and Data Mining (a.k.a. KDD, which is the premier conference on data mining) and as the program co-chair for the International Conference on Network Science (a.k.a. NetSci, which is the premier conference on network science). In 2020, she served as the program co-chair for the International Conference on Computational Social Science (a.k.a. IC2S2, which is the premier conference on computational social science). Tina received an Outstanding Mentor Award from the Office of Science at the US Department of Energy in 2010; became a Fellow of the ISI Foundation in Turin Italy in 2019, and was named one of the 100 Brilliant Women in AI Ethics for 2021. She joined the Inaugural External Faculty at the Vermont Complex Systems Center in 2021. Please note that this virtual event, including attendees’ Zoom video, audio and screen name, and questions or chats, will be recorded. All or portions of the event recording may be shared through Brown University’s digital channels. Individuals who do not want their identities to be captured are solely responsible for turning off their camera, muting their microphone, and/or adjusting their screen name accordingly. By attending this event, you consent to your name, voice, and/or image being recorded and to Brown University reproducing, distributing, and otherwise displaying the recording, within its sole discretion. Data Wednesdays The Data Science Initiative joins the Center for Computational and Molecular Biology (CCMB) every Wednesday afternoon, 4 – 5 pm during the academic year to present lecturers in various mathematical and statistical fields worldwide, as well as local researchers on Brown’s campus. The aim is to provide students, staff, faculty, and visitors with an introduction to current research topics in the fields of data science, mathematics, statistics, and computer science. DSI & CCMB Data Wednesday: Geometric and Topological Graph Analysis for Machine Learning Applications Apr 8 12:00pm Translational Research Seminar Series Zoom The Advance-CTR Translational Research Seminar Series showcases clinical and translational research from across Rhode Island. Presentations, followed by feedback, allow presenters the opportunity to refine and strengthen their research. Seminars are held virtually on the second Thursday of each month. April Brian Kavanaugh, PsyD, and Luca Bartolini, MD: “Epilepsy and Neurocgnitive Function in Patients with Neurogentic Disorders” Deepan Dalal, MD, and Tingting Zhang, MD, PhD: “Impact of Aggressive Rheumatoid Arthritis Therapy on Osteoporotic Fractures in Older Rheumatoid Arthritis Patients” Details: April 8, 2021 at 12 p.m. ET. Translational Research Seminar Series (Advance-CTR) Biology, Medicine, Public Health, Entrepreneurship, Mathematics, Technology, Engineering, Psychology & Cognitive Sciences, Research, Teaching & Learning, Training, Professional Development Apr 7 4:00pm DSI & CCMB Data Wednesday: Matthew Hahn, U Indiana MATTHEW HAHN Distinguished Professor, Departments of Biology and Computer Science, Director, Center for Genomics and Bioinformatics, University of Indiana THE EVOLUTION OF MAMMALIAN MUTATION RATES BIOGRAPHY Matthew W. Hahn earned his B.S. degree from Cornell University and obtained his Ph.D. from Duke University under the mentorship of Mark Rausher. He was an NSF postdoctoral fellow at the University of California, Davis with Charles Langley and John Gillespie. He is a Distinguished Professor of Biology and Computer Science at Indiana University, where he has held a faculty position since 2005. He currently directs IU’s Center for Genomics and Bioinformatics. His research focuses on how evolution has shaped organismal and genomic diversity, and how adaptation is achieved using multiple different types of molecular changes. His lab couples empirical studies of genome sequences with the development of mathematical theory, new statistical models, and the implementation of open-source software. His work introduced the first methods for quantifying and understanding gene gain and loss among species, applying them to primates to understand the differences between humans and our closest relatives. More recent methods developed by his lab have uncovered both the genes and the traits shared between species due to hybridization. He has published over 150 scientific articles and two books, which have collectively been cited more than 22,000 times. His research program has been supported by the U.S. NSF and NIH, as well as by the Australian Research Council. He has been the recipient of an NSF CAREER Award, a fellowship from the Alfred P. Sloan Foundation, the Margaret Dayhoff Award from the Society for Molecular Biology and Evolution, the Stebbins Medal from the International Association for Plant Taxonomy, and the Bicentennial Medal from Indiana University. He is an elected fellow of the American Association for the Advancement of Science. Please note that this virtual event, including attendees’ Zoom video, audio and screen name, and questions or chats, will be recorded. All or portions of the event recording may be shared through Brown University’s digital channels. Individuals who do not want their identities to be captured are solely responsible for turning off their camera, muting their microphone, and/or adjusting their screen name accordingly. By attending this event, you consent to your name, voice, and/or image being recorded and to Brown University reproducing, distributing, and otherwise displaying the recording, within its sole discretion. Data Wednesdays The Data Science Initiative joins the Center for Computational and Molecular Biology (CCMB) every Wednesday afternoon, 4 – 5 pm during the academic year to present lecturers in various mathematical and statistical fields worldwide, as well as local researchers on Brown’s campus. The aim is to provide students, staff, faculty, and visitors with an introduction to current research topics in the fields of data science, mathematics, statistics, and computer science. DSI & CCMB Data Wednesday: Matthew Hahn, U Indiana Apr 7 3:00pm DEEPS Colloquium: Jnaneshwar Das, Arizona State University DEEPS COLLOQUIUM Jnaneshwar Das Assistant Research Professor, Arizona State University Closing the loop on semantic mapping for ecological and geological sciences, leveraging robotics and AI My talk will present our methodology for closing the loop on data collection, analysis, and experimental design, with applications in the ecological and geological sciences. I will illustrate how we are leveraging robotics and artificial intelligence, with domain experts in the loop, to iteratively improve our data-driven models, and robot mission planning to optimally collect the data to learn these models. First, I will present a drone-based data-driven geomorphology pipeline for mapping rocky fault scarps, and sparse geologic features such as precariously balanced rocks. Then, I will discuss how we are able to translate aspects of this research to the task of mapping hypolith habitats in imagery from drylands, and leaving earth for a short detour, even craters from martian and lunar orbital imagery. Finally, I will describe our efforts in the aquatic realm, with robotic boats and underwater drones, for littoral monitoring and coral reef mapping. I will close with highlights from our annual NSF-funded annual cyber-physical systems competition where students are challenged to develop autonomy for drones, to enable deployment and recovery of sensor probes. Plans for the 2021 event will be showcased. DEEPS Colloquium: Jnaneshwar Das, Arizona State University Apr 2 12:00pm Overcoming the User-Provider Divide in Cloud Computing Neeraja Yadwadkar Stanford University Please Note: Brown Login Required For This Talk Abstract: Today, even after more than a decade of the cloud computing revolution, users still do not have predictable performance for their applications, and the providers continue to suffer loss of revenue due to poorly utilized resources. Moreover, the environmental implications of these inefficiencies are dire: Cloud-hosted datacenters consume as much power as a city of a million people and emit roughly as much CO2 as the airline industry. Fighting these implications, especially in the post Moore’s law era, is crucial. My work points out that the root of these inefficiencies is the gap between the users and the providers. To overcome this divide, my research brings out two key insights for building systems that render the cloud smart, a cloud that is easy-to-use, adaptive, and efficient. First, we must design interfaces to these systems that are intuitive and expressive for users. Such interfaces should open a dialog between users and providers, allowing users to specify high-level application goals, and transfer the responsibility of making low-level resource management decisions to the providers. This opens an opportunity for providers to optimize the use of their resources while still best aligning with user goals. Second, to make the resource management decisions in an adaptive manner in increasingly complex cloud systems, we must leverage Data-Driven or Machine Learning (ML) models. In doing so, my work uses and develops ML algorithms and studies the challenges that such data-driven models raise in the context of systems: modeling uncertainty, cost of training, and generalizability. In this talk, I will present two systems, INFaaS and PARIS, designed to demonstrate the efficacy of these two key insights. These systems represent key steps towards building a smart cloud: they significantly simplify the use of cloud, improve resource efficiency while meeting user goals. Bio: Neeraja Yadwadkar is a post-doctoral research fellow in the Computer Science Department at Stanford University, working with Christos Kozyrakis. She is a Cloud Computing Systems researcher, with a strong background in Machine Learning (ML). Neeraja’s research focuses on using and developing ML techniques for systems, and building systems for ML. Neeraja graduated with a PhD in Computer Science from the RISE Lab at University of California, Berkeley, where she was advised by Randy Katz and Joseph Gonzalez. Before starting her PhD, she received her masters in Computer Science from the Indian Institute of Science, Bangalore, India, and her bachelors from the Government College of Engineering, Pune. Host: Malte Schwarzkopf Overcoming the User-Provider Divide in Cloud Computing (Computer Science) Mar 31 4:00pm DSI & CCMB Data Wednesday: Madza Farias-Virgens (Huerta-Sanchez Lab at Brown/UCLA) Virtual Event MADZA FARIAS-VIRGENS Ph.D. Candidate, Molecular Celluar and Integrative Physiology, UCLA Visiting with the Huerta-Sanchez Lab, CCMB, Brown University NEUROGENETIC AND EVOLUTIONARY PROCESSES IN BENGALESE FINCH SONG: PARALLELS AND IMPLICATIONS FOR THE STUDY OF HUMAN SPEECH The ability to learn how to produce sounds, in addition to associating innate sounds with external events or objects, enables speech and language acquisition in humans. Despite being quite rare or rudimentary among mammals, vocal production learning is very prominent in three bird groups: songbirds, parrots, and hummingbirds. In this work, we identify genes and biological pathways of importance for functional aspects of vocal production learning in the Bengalese finch (Lonchura striata domestica), a domesticated songbird commonly found in pet shops, but also a popular animal model in the study of learned vocal behaviors. The Bengalese finch has a remarkably complex song, in which transitions between vocal units are not fixed, introducing variability in song sequencing. This vocal complexity evolved during its domestication from the white-backed munia, a wild songbird easily found throughout East Asia. We use whole-genome sequencing data and analytical tools from population genomics to assess the contributions of selection processes (such as female choice for more complex songs) and demographic events (such as the major population bottleneck during domestication) in shaping the Bengalese finch’s genetic variation. Using genome-wide Fst scans, we identify several differentiated genomic regions between domesticated and wild songbirds, with the sex chromosome Z showing the greater proportion of highly differentiated genes. We also find that, as many domesticated animals, Bengalese finches are overall less genetically diverse than their wild ancestors, as shown by reduced average heterozygosity per sampled individual. However, genome-wide Tajimas’D scans show that genetic diversity in munias deviates less from expected across the genome, while diversity deviates more from the expected in Bengalese finches, with long stretches of the genome showing either considerable loss or gain of variability. Interestingly, domesticated and wild songbirds differ in multiple components of the dopamine system, a biopathway fundamental to vocal learning. Our results serve to guide further comparative efforts toward identifying convergent patterns of evolutionary change leading to vocal learning in our own species. BIOGRAPHY Madza is conducting a collaborative project between the Okanoya lab at RIKEN Brain Science Institute/University of Tokyo, the Huerta-Sanchez lab at Brown University, and the Xiao lab at IBP-UCLA. Her research investigates the evolutionary forces and neurogenetic mechanisms underlying changes in vocal behavior between Bengalese finches and their ancestral species, white-backed munias. Please note that this virtual event, including attendees’ Zoom video, audio and screen name, and questions or chats, will be recorded. All or portions of the event recording may be shared through Brown University’s digital channels. Individuals who do not want their identities to be captured are solely responsible for turning off their camera, muting their microphone, and/or adjusting their screen name accordingly. By attending this event, you consent to your name, voice, and/or image being recorded and to Brown University reproducing, distributing, and otherwise displaying the recording, within its sole discretion. Data Wednesdays The Data Science Initiative joins the Center for Computational and Molecular Biology (CCMB) every Wednesday afternoon, 4 – 5 pm during the academic year to present lecturers in various mathematical and statistical fields worldwide, as well as local researchers on Brown’s campus. The aim is to provide students, staff, faculty, and visitors with an introduction to current research topics in the fields of data science, mathematics, statistics, and computer science. DSI & CCMB Data Wednesday: Madza Farias-Virgens (Huerta-Sanchez Lab at Brown/UCLA) Mar 31 12:00pm Prioritizing Computation and Analyst Resources in Large-scale Data Analytics Kexin Rong Stanford University Please Note: Brown Login Required For This Talk Abstract: Data volumes are growing exponentially, fueled by an increased number of automated processes such as sensors and devices. Meanwhile, the computational power available for processing this data – as well as analysts’ ability to interpret it – remain limited. As a result, database systems must evolve to address these new bottlenecks in analytics. In my work, I ask: how can we adapt classic ideas from database query processing to modern compute- and analyst-limited data analytics? In this talk, I will discuss the potential for this kind of systems development through the lens of several practical systems I have developed. By drawing insights from database query optimization, such as pushing workload- and domain-specific filtering, aggregation, and sampling into core analytics workflows, we can dramatically improve the efficiency of analytics at scale. I will illustrate these ideas by focusing on two systems — one designed to optimize visualizations for streaming infrastructure and application telemetry and one designed for high-volume seismic waveform analysis — both of which have been field-tested at scale. I will also discuss lessons from production deployments at companies including Datadog, Microsoft, Google and Facebook. Bio: Kexin Rong is a Ph.D. student in Computer Science at Stanford University, co-advised by Professor Peter Bailis and Professor Philip Levis. She designs and builds systems to enable data analytics at scale, supporting applications including scientific analysis, infrastructure monitoring, and analytical queries on big data clusters. Prior to Stanford, she received her bachelor’s degree in Computer Science from California Institute of Technology. Host: Stephen Bach Prioritizing Computation and Analyst Resources in Large-scale Data Analytics Mar 31 11:00am - 12:30pm The Technology and Structural Inequality Series: Bias and Discrimination in AI The Technology and Structural Inequality speaker series will focus on the impact of technology on marginalized communities. The series will bring together leading academics and activists whose work is influencing how we think about and how we fight against the harms that technology is causing. The speakers will examine how AI and machine learning algorithms can be biased and discriminatory. Please join us for a roundtable discussion on bias and discrimination in AI on March 31, 2021 at 11 a.m. This discussion will feature: Rediet Abebe, Assistant Professor of Computer Science at the University of California, Berkeley and a Junior Fellow at the Harvard Society of Fellows Mutale Nkonde, founding CEO of AI For the People (AFP), Practitioner Fellow at the Digital Civil Society Lab at Stanford, and an affiliate at the Berkman Klein Center of Internet and Society at Harvard University Meredith Broussard, Associate Professor of Journalism, Arthur L. Carter Journalism Institute, New York University Moderated by Seny Kamara, Associate Professor of Computer Science at Brown University and Chief Scientist at Aroki Systems. Free and open to the public. Please register to attend. Presented by the Center for the Study of Race and Ethnicity in America (CSREA) in partnership with the Department of Computer Science’s Computing for the People Project. Speaker Bios Rediet Abebe is an assistant professor of computer science at the University of California, Berkeley and a Junior Fellow at the Harvard Society of Fellows. Abebe holds a Ph.D. in computer science from Cornell University and graduate degrees in mathematics from Harvard University and the University of Cambridge. Her research is in artificial intelligence and algorithms, with a focus on equity and justice concerns. Abebe co-founded and co-organizes Mechanism Design for Social Good (MD4SG) – a multi-institutional, interdisciplinary initiative. Her dissertation received the 2020 ACM SIGKDD Dissertation Award and an honorable mention for the ACM SIGEcom Dissertation Award for offering the foundations of this emerging research area. Abebe’s work has informed policy and practice at the National Institute of Health (NIH) and the Ethiopian Ministry of Education. She has been honored in the MIT Technology Reviews’ 35 Innovators Under 35 and the Bloomberg 50 list as a one to watch. Abebe also co-founded Black in AI, a non-profit organization tackling equity issues in AI. Her research is influenced by her upbringing in her hometown of Addis Ababa, Ethiopia. Mutale Nkonde is the founder of AI For the People (AFP), a nonprofit communications firm.. AFP’s mission is to produce content that empowers general audiences to combat racial bias in tech. Prior to starting AI for the People, Nkonde worked in AI Governance. During that time, she was part of the team that introduced the Algorithmic Accountability Act, the DEEP FAKES Accountability Act, and the No Biometric Barriers to Housing Act to the US House of Representatives. In 2021 Nkonde was the lead author of Disinformation Creep: ADOS and the Weaponization of Breaking News, Harvard Kennedy School Misinformation Review, which kicked off her work in mis and disinformation. AI for the People recently co-produced a film with Amnesty International to support the ban the scan campaign a global push to ban facial recognition. Meredith Broussard is an associate professor at the Arthur L. Carter Journalism Institute of New York University and the author of the award-winning book Artificial Unintelligence: How Computers Misunderstand the World. Her research focuses on artificial intelligence in investigative reporting, with a particular interest in using data analysis for social good. She is an affiliate faculty member at the Moore Sloan Data Science Environment at the NYU Center for Data Science, a 2019 Reynolds Journalism Institute Fellow, and her work has been supported by the Institute of Museum & Library Services as well as the Tow Center at Columbia Journalism School. A former features editor at the Philadelphia Inquirer, she has also worked as a software developer at AT&T Bell Labs and the MIT Media Lab. Her features and essays have appeared in The Atlantic, Slate, Vox, and other outlets. Follow her on Twitter @merbroussard or contact her via meredithbroussard.com. The Technology and Structural Inequality Series: Bias and Discrimination in AI Identity, Culture, Inclusion, Mathematics, Technology, Engineering Mar 29 12:00pm Building secure distributed systems atop the insecure Internet Maria Apostolaki ETH Zurich Please Note: Brown Login Required For This Talk Title: Building secure distributed systems atop the insecure Internet Abstract: Distributed systems are increasingly important for our everyday life, allowing for high performance, fault tolerance, and flexibility. Many of these systems nowadays rely on the inherently insecure Internet infrastructure. Surely though, they should have been designed to take this into account…? In this talk, I will answer negatively to this question using a concrete example: public blockchain systems such as Bitcoin. These are novel distributed systems that are designed according to stringent failure models. In this context, I will explain how an adversary controlling pieces of Internet infrastructure can practically compromise: (i) Bitcoin’s consensus protocol (by partitioning the network); (ii) Bitcoin’s anonymity guarantees (by mapping pseudonyms to real-world identities); and (iii) Bitcoin’s availability (by eclipsing clients). While these attacks are worrying, I will also introduce practical and effective defenses to counter them both at the network and the application layer. Beyond Bitcoin, this work teaches essential lessons for distributed-system design. Bio: Maria Apostolaki is a PhD Student at ETH Zurich advised by Laurent Vanbever. During her studies, she has been a visiting student at MIT (2019) and a research intern at Microsoft Research (2018) and Google (2017). Before joining ETH, she earned her diploma in Electrical and Computer Engineering at the National Technical University of Athens, Greece. Host: Theo Benson Building secure distributed systems atop the insecure Internet (Computer Science) Mar 24 12:00pm Opening the Black Box: Towards Theoretical Understanding of Deep Learning Wei Hu Princeton University Please Note: Brown Login Required For This Talk Abstract: Despite the phenomenal empirical successes of deep learning in many application domains, its underlying mathematical mechanisms remain poorly understood. Mysteriously, deep neural networks in practice can often fit training data almost perfectly and generalize remarkably well to unseen test data, despite highly non-convex optimization landscapes and significant over-parameterization. A solid theory not only can help us understand such mysteries, but also will be the key to improving the practice of deep learning and making it more principled, reliable, and easy-to-use. In this talk, I will present our recent progress on building the theoretical foundations of deep learning, by opening the black box of the interactions among data, model architecture, and training algorithm. First, I will show that gradient descent on deep linear neural networks induces an implicit bias towards low-rank solutions, which leads to an improved method for the classical low-rank matrix completion problem. Next, turning to nonlinear deep neural networks, I will talk about a line of studies on wide neural networks, where by drawing a connection to the neural tangent kernels, we can answer various questions such as how training loss is minimized, why trained network can generalize well, and why certain component in the network architecture is useful; we also use theoretical insights to design a new simple and effective method for training on noisily labeled datasets. In closing, I will discuss key questions going forward towards building practically relevant theoretical foundations of modern machine learning. Bio: Wei Hu is a PhD candidate in the Department of Computer Science at Princeton University, advised by Sanjeev Arora. Previously, he obtained his B.E. in Computer Science from Tsinghua University. He has also spent time as a research intern at research labs of Google and Microsoft. His current research interest is broadly in the theoretical foundations of modern machine learning. In particular, his main focus is on obtaining solid theoretical understanding of deep learning, as well as using theoretical insights to design practical and principled machine learning methods. He is a recipient of the Siebel Scholarship Class of 2021. Host: Eli Upfal Opening the Black Box: Towards Theoretical Understanding of Deep Learning Mar 22 4:00pm Master of Science in Cybersecurity Info Session Brown CS now offers a Master of Science in Cybersecurity that is fully online and open to 5th years. This degree is designed to be completed from anywhere in the world, so you can move back to your hometown or move to a new city to start a new job. The program offers a Computer Science Track for those interested in building technical capabilities and a Policy Track for students looking to approach cybersecurity problems from legal and legislative perspectives. Join directors Tim Edgar, Bernardo Palazzi, and Ernie Zaldivar for a discussion of what the program has to offer. Master of Science in Cybersecurity Info Session Mar 22 12:00pm - 1:00pm Statistics Seminar Series | Hyunseung Kang, University of Wisconsin-Madison Hyunseung Kang, PhD Assistant Professor, Department of Statistics, University of Wisconsin-Madison Title: Assumption-Lean Analysis of Cluster Randomized Trials in Infectious Diseases for Intent-to-Treat Effects and Spillover Effects Among A Vulnerable Subpopulation Abstract: Cluster randomized trials (CRTs) are a popular design to study the effect of interventions in infectious disease settings. However, standard analysis of CRTs primarily relies on strong parametric methods, usually a Normal mixed effect models to account for the clustering structure, and focus on the overall intent-to-treat (ITT) effect to evaluate effectiveness. The paper presents two methods to analyze two types of effects in CRTs, the overall and heterogeneous ITT effects and the spillover effect among never-takers who cannot or refuse to take the intervention. For the ITT effects, we make a modest extension of an existing method where we do not impose parametric models or asymptotic restrictions on cluster size. For the spillover effect among never-takers, we propose a new bound-based method that uses pre-treatment covariates, classification algorithms, and a linear program to obtain sharp bounds. A key feature of our method is that the bounds can become dramatically narrower as the classification algorithm improves and the method may also be useful for studies of partial identification with instrumental variables. We conclude by reanalyzing a CRT studying the effect of face masks and hand sanitizers on transmission of 2008 interpandemic influenza in Hong Kong. This is joint work with Chan Park (UW-Madison) Statistics Seminar Series | Hyunseung Kang, University of Wisconsin-Madison (Biostatistics) Biology, Medicine, Public Health, BioStatsSeminar, Graduate School, Postgraduate Education, Mathematics, Technology, Engineering, Research, Training, Professional Development Mar 22 12:00pm Reliable Machine Learning in Feedback Systems Sarah Dean UC Berkeley Please Note: Brown Login Required For This Talk Title: Reliable Machine Learning in Feedback Systems Abstract: Machine learning techniques have been successful for processing complex information, and thus they have the potential to play an important role in data-driven decision-making and control. However, ensuring the reliability of these methods in feedback systems remains a challenge, since classic statistical and algorithmic guarantees do not always hold. In this talk, I will provide rigorous guarantees of safety and discovery in dynamical settings relevant to robotics and recommendation systems. I take a perspective based on reachability, to specify which parts of the state space the system avoids (safety) or can be driven to (discovery). For data-driven control, we show finite-sample performance and safety guarantees which highlight relevant properties of the system to be controlled. For recommendation systems, we introduce a novel metric of discovery and show that it can be efficiently computed. In closing, I discuss how the reachability perspective can be used to design social-digital systems with a variety of important values in mind. Bio: Sarah is a PhD candidate in the Department of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science at UC Berkeley, advised by Ben Recht. She received her MS in EECS from Berkeley and BSE in Electrical Engineering and Math from the University of Pennsylvania. Sarah is interested in the interplay between optimization, machine learning, and dynamics in real-world systems. Her research focuses on developing principled data-driven methods for control and decision-making, inspired by applications in robotics, recommendation systems, and developmental economics. She is a co-founder of a transdisciplinary student group, Graduates for Engaged and Extended Scholarship in computing and Engineering, and the recipient of a Berkeley Fellowship and a NSF Graduate Research Fellowship. Host: Karianne Bergen Reliable Machine Learning in Feedback Systems (Computer Science) Mar 19 1:30pm DSI Faculty for Faculty Talk: Sean Monaghan, MD, FACS Please note the following talk is only available to faculty members. SEAN MONAGHAN, MD, FACS Assistant Professor of Surgery, Brown University Lots of Data from Really Sick Patients: What to Do? The generation of genomic data is exceeding the generation of data from other sources such as YouTube and Twitter. When the genomic data comes from a patient or multiple patients with similar diseases how do we utilize it to inform clinical practice? When this data comes from very sick patients, can we use it to better care? How can we manage all this data as it relates to patients when we are trained to use very specific tests. This talk will highlight some data from critically ill patients with COVID and how we use that data in patient care. We will also discuss other data management techniques and why they may not be applicable in the real-world scenario of COVID-19. It is hoped that there will be a robust discussion of other techniques from other disciplines. BIOGRAPHY Sean F. Monaghan, MD, FACS, is an Assistant Professor of Surgery at Brown University and a member of the Division of Trauma and Surgical Critical Care and the Division of Surgical Research. His research attempts to understand the biology of RNA splicing in critically ill trauma and surgical patients using Acute Respiratory Distress Syndrome (ARDS) as a model disease. He uses both human samples and animal models as well as large data sets (GTEx) with computation and molecular biology techniques in his research. His research hopes to translate RNA sequencing technology for use by clinicians in the intensive care unit. Dr. Monaghan has been supported by the American College of Surgeons C. James Carrico Faculty Research Fellowship and the National Institutes of Health as a Pilot Project and the Principal Investigator for Project 5 of the CardioPulmonary Vascular Biology Center of Biomedical Research Excellence. (F4F) Faculty for Faculty Research Talks DSI Faculty for Faculty Research Talks are an opportunity for faculty to share current data science-related research activities with other faculty colleagues in an informal environment. The talks are presented at a very general level, to stimulate discussion and interdisciplinary interchange of ideas. Our goal is to provide a networking venue that promotes research collaborations between faculty across all disciplines; awareness of the breadth of data science-related research at Brown; and a forum for faculty to share their expertise with one another. Participation will be limited to faculty members. DSI Faculty for Faculty Talk: Sean Monaghan, MD, FACS Mar 19 12:00pm Enabling Hyperscale Web Services Akshitha Sriraman University of Michigan Please Note: Brown Login Required For This Talk Abstract: Current hardware and software systems were conceived at a time when we had scarce compute and memory resources, limited quantity of data and users, and easy hardware performance scaling due to Moore’s Law. These assumptions are not true today. Today, emerging web services require data centers that scale to hundreds of thousands of servers, i.e., hyperscale, to efficiently process requests from billions of users. In this new era of hyperscale computing, we can no longer afford to build each layer of the systems stack separately. Instead, we must rethink the synergy between the software and hardware worlds from the ground up. In this talk, I will focus on re-thinking (1) software threading and concurrency paradigms and (2) data center hardware architectures. First, I will describe μTune, my software threading framework that is aware of the overheads induced by the underlying hardware’s constraints. Then, I will discuss SoftSKU and Accelerometer—my proposals to answer the question of: How should we build data center hardware for emerging software paradigms in the post-Moore era? Finally, I will conclude by describing my ongoing and future research towards re-designing the systems stack to enable the hyperscale web services of tomorrow. Bio: Akshitha Sriraman is a Ph.D. candidate in Computer Science and Engineering at the University of Michigan. Her research bridges computer architecture and software systems, demonstrating the importance of that bridge in realizing efficient hyperscale web services via solutions that span the systems stack. Her systems solutions to improve hardware efficiency have been deployed in real hyperscale data centers and currently serve billions of users, saving millions of dollars and meaningfully reducing the global carbon footprint. Additionally, her hardware design proposals have influenced Intel’s Alder Lake+ CPU architectures. Sriraman has been recognized with a Facebook Fellowship, a Rackham Merit Ph.D. Fellowship, and was selected for the Rising Stars in EECS Workshop. Her work has been recognized with an IEEE Micro Top Picks distinction and has appeared in top architecture and systems venues like OSDI, ISCA, ASPLOS, MICRO, and HPCA. Host: Iris Bahar Enabling Hyperscale Web Services Mar 17 4:00pm DSI & CCMB Data Wednesday: Alice Paul, Assistant Professor of Biostatistics (Brown) Virtual Event ALICE PAUL Assistant Professor of Biostatistics, Brown University CLUSTERING WITH ITERATED LINEAR OPTIMIZATION In this talk, Alice will introduce a novel method for clustering using a semidefinite programming (SDP) relaxation of the Max k-Cut problem. The approach is based on a new methodology for rounding the solution of an SDP using iterated linear optimization. She shows the vertices of the Max k-Cut SDP relaxation correspond to partitions of the data into at most k sets. She also shows the vertices are attractive fixed points of iterated linear optimization. She interprets the process of fixed-point iteration with linear optimization as repeated relaxations of the closest vertex problem. Her experiments show that using fixed-point iteration for rounding the Max k-Cut SDP relaxation leads to significantly better results when compared to randomized rounding. BIOGRAPHY Alice Paul is an Assistant Professor of Biostatistics at Brown University interested in algorithms, optimization, data science, and education. Her past research has focused on the design and analysis of optimization algorithms underlying bike-share systems, machine learning, revenue management, and other applications. She also enjoys thinking about how data informs these algorithms. Recent research projects with students have involved using data science to analyze the use of bike-share and scooter-share programs. Prior to joining Brown, Alice was an Assistant Professor of Applied Math and Computer Science at Olin College of Engineering. Before that, she was a Postdoctoral Research Associate in the Data Science Initiative at Brown University under the advisement of Professor Pedro Felzenszwalb. Alice completed her Ph.D. in the Department of Operations Research and Information Engineering at Cornell University, advised by Professor David Williamson, and she received her Bachelor of Science in Mathematics from Harvey Mudd College, where her undergraduate thesis adviser was Professor Susan Martonosi. Please note that this virtual event, including attendees’ Zoom video, audio and screen name, and questions or chats, will be recorded. All or portions of the event recording may be shared through Brown University’s digital channels. Individuals who do not want their identities to be captured are solely responsible for turning off their camera, muting their microphone, and/or adjusting their screen name accordingly. By attending this event, you consent to your name, voice, and/or image being recorded and to Brown University reproducing, distributing, and otherwise displaying the recording, within its sole discretion. Data Wednesdays The Data Science Initiative joins the Center for Computational and Molecular Biology (CCMB) every Wednesday afternoon, 4 – 5 pm during the academic year to present lecturers in various mathematical and statistical fields worldwide, as well as local researchers on Brown’s campus. The aim is to provide students, staff, faculty, and visitors with an introduction to current research topics in the fields of data science, mathematics, statistics, and computer science. DSI & CCMB Data Wednesday: Alice Paul, Assistant Professor of Biostatistics (Brown) Mar 17 12:00pm - 1:30pm The Technology and Structural Inequality Series: Policing and Technology The Technology and Structural Inequality speaker series will focus on the impact of technology on marginalized communities. The series will bring together leading academics and activists whose work is influencing how we think about and how we fight against the harms that technology is causing. The speakers will examine how technology is being used to increase the surveillance and policing of marginalized communities and how many of these technologies are inherently biased and discriminatory. Please join us for a roundtable discussion on policing and technology on March 17, 2021 at 12 p.m. This discussion will feature: Samuel Sinyangwe, Co-founder of Campaign Zero Cynthia Khoo, lawyer and Research Fellow at the Citizen Lab, Munk School of Global Affairs & Public Policy, University of Toronto Cierra Robson, Doctoral Student in Sociology & Social Policy, Harvard University Moderated by Nicole Gonzalez Van Cleve, Associate Professor of Sociology, Brown University. Free and open to the public. Please register to attend. Presented by the Center for the Study of Race and Ethnicity in America (CSREA) in partnership with the Department of Computer Science’s Computing for the People Project. Samuel Sinyangwe is a policy analyst and data scientist focused on ending racism and police violence in America. Sam has supported movement activists across the country to collect and use data as a tool for fighting police violence by building Mapping Police Violence, the nation’s most comprehensive database of killings by police. Sam also co-founded Campaign Zero, a national research and advocacy organization that partners with local organizers to enact legislation to end police violence. Previously, Sam worked at PolicyLink to support communities in building cradle-to-career systems of support for low-income families. He graduated from Stanford University in 2012. Cynthia Khoo is a research fellow at the Citizen Lab at the University of Toronto and a technology and human rights lawyer. She holds an LL.M. with a concentration in law and technology from the University of Ottawa, where she worked on interventions before the Supreme Court of Canada as junior counsel at the Samuelson-Glushko Canadian Internet Policy and Public Interest Clinic (CIPPIC). Her paper on platform liability for emergent systemic harm to historically marginalized groups received the inaugural Ian R. Kerr Robotnik Memorial Award for the Best Paper by an Emerging Scholar at We Robot 2020 and she is currently authoring a report on platform regulation and technology-facilitated gender-based violence for the Women’s Legal Education and Action Fund (LEAF). Cynthia is the principal lawyer at Tekhnos Law, and obtained her J.D. from the University of Victoria. Her work and expertise span across key areas of technology and human rights law and policy, including privacy and surveillance, equality and freedom from discrimination, online censorship and freedom of expression, intermediary liability, and algorithmic decision-making systems. Cierra Robson is the associate director of the Ida B. Wells JUST Data Lab at Princeton University where she guides research teams in partnership with community organizations to explore how data can be retooled for racial justice. Additionally, Cierra is a doctoral student in the sociology and social policy program at Harvard University where she is a Malcolm Hewitt Wiener Ph.D. Research Fellow in Poverty and Justice. Broadly, her research explores the ways in which technological advancements both reinforce and revolutionize racial inequality in the United States, particularly within the criminal justice system. She holds a B.A. in African American studies from Princeton University, where she specialized in studies of race and public policy and pursued a minor in technology and society. The Technology and Structural Inequality Series: Policing and Technology Identity, Culture, Inclusion, Mathematics, Technology, Engineering Mar 17 12:00pm Toward Robust Machine Learning, with Emphasis on Countering Spurious Features Haohan Wang Carnegie Mellon University Please Note: Brown Login Required For This Talk Abstract: The talk will introduce a series of works centering around robust machine learning. I will start with an empirical observation that shows the misalignment between the machine learning model and the human’s perception of the data, which leads to our central hypothesis of the challenge of learning robust models. Following the central hypothesis, I will introduce two pieces of my recent work: one is from a data perspective: when we use data augmentation, how we can take full advantage of the augmented data, and the discussion leads to a simple generic method that can compete with different state-of-the-art robust machine learning methods over multiple tasks; the other is from a model perspective: we directly build a regularization into a vanilla vision model to counter model’s tendency in predicting through local patches of images. Further, I will also briefly introduce the concept of our statistical investigation to derive a formal bound that can connect these two perspectives, and the bound will also inspire a new method. Finally, I will conclude with an ongoing project that applies the discussed techniques to understand the pathology of Alzheimer’s disease, which suggests that a model boosted by these robust learning techniques is likely to understand the Alzheimer’s patients’ MRI data as a physician does. Bio: Haohan Wang is currently a Ph.D. candidate at LTI, Carnegie Mellon University, working with Professor Eric P. Xing. He started his career in computational biology, and his recent research interest centers around trustworthy machine learning, supported by statistical analysis and covering a spectrum of applications including computer vision, NLP, and computational biology. Haohan is recognized as the Next Generation in Biomedicine by the Broad Institute of MIT and Harvard because of his contributions in dealing with confounding factors with deep learning. His survey report On the Origin of Deep Learning is considered one of the Most Influential Data Science Research Papers in 2018 by the media from Open Data Science Conference (ODSC Host: Ritambhara Singh Toward Robust Machine Learning, with Emphasis on Countering Spurious Features Mar 17 10:00am BME Thesis Defense: Dhananjay Bhaskar Ph.D. Thesis Defense DHANANJAY BHASKAR Ph.D. Candidate, BME, Brown University “Topological Data Analysis of Collective Motion” Wednesday, March 17 10:00 AM EDT BME Thesis Defense: Dhananjay Bhaskar Mar 15 12:00pm - 1:00pm Statistics Seminar Series | Sudipto Banerjee, UCLA Sudipto Banerjee, PhD Professor and Chair of the Department of Biostatistics UCLA Fielding School of Public Health Title: Bayesian Finite Population Survey Sampling from Spatial Process Settings Abstract: We develop a Bayesian model-based approach to finite population estimation accounting for spatial dependence. Our innovation here is a framework that achieves inference for finite population quantities in spatial process settings. A key distinction from the small area estimation setting is that we analyze finite populations referenced by their geographic coordinates (point-referenced data). Specifically, we consider a two-stage sampling design in which the primary units are geographic regions, the secondary units are point-referenced locations, and the measured values are assumed to be a partial realization of a spatial process. Traditional geostatistical models do not account for variation attributable to finite population sampling designs, which can impair inferential performance. On the other hand, design-based estimates will ignore the spatial dependence in the finite population. This motivates the introduction of geostatistical processes that will enable inference at arbitrary locations in our domain of interest. We demonstrate using simulation experiments that process-based finite population sampling models considerably improve model fit and inference over models that fail to account for spatial correlation. Furthermore, the process based models offer richer inference with spatially interpolated maps over the entire region. We reinforce these improvements and also scalable inference for spatial BIG DATA analysis with millions of locations using Nearest-Neighbor and Meshed Gaussian processes. We will demonstrate our framework with an example of groundwater Nitrate levels in the population of California Central Valley wells by offering estimates of mean Nitrate levels and their spatially interpolated maps. Statistics Seminar Series | Sudipto Banerjee, UCLA (Biostatistics) Biology, Medicine, Public Health, BioStatsSeminar, Graduate School, Postgraduate Education, Mathematics, Technology, Engineering, Research, Training, Professional Development Mar 15 12:00pm The Interface between Theoretical Economics and Theoretical Computer Science: Revenue Maximization as a Case Study Yannai Gonczarowski Microsoft New England Please Note: Brown Login Required For This Talk Abstract: Traditional auctions, and more generally, traditional economic transactions, have always been of “manual scale.” For example, the number of auctions conducted even in the largest of auction houses was moderate enough (and each item—expensive enough) so that expert appraisers could dedicate time to surveying each item sold, and use their expertise to determine a starting price that is optimized to maximize the revenue of the auction house. Such manual solutions were feasible until the Internet changed our world. For instance, whenever you search for something using your favorite search engine, a split-second auction is performed among (many times a large number of) advertisers who are related to your search term in order to determine which ads will be shown to you in the results page a mere moment later. The quantity of these auctions (billions per day), together with the low worth of each (many times less than a single cent each, yet in total reaching many billions of dollars), makes any per-auction manual intervention, say, in choosing the “starting price,” completely impractical. This explosion in online and computerized economic activity necessitates the study and understanding of economic mechanisms and markets of unprecedented scale. How good can simple mechanisms be? How complex must optimal mechanisms be? And, most substantially, what are the precise trade-offs between simplicity and quality? In this talk, I will survey some of my results on such questions for three notions of complexity within the context of the design of high-revenue auctions: the complexity of the machine-learning of high-revenue auctions, the complexity of describing high-revenue auctions, and the communication complexity of running high-revenue auctions. Based also on joint works with Moshe Babaioff, Noam Nisan, and S. Matthew Weinberg. In the talk, I will survey results from my following three papers: * The Sample Complexity of Up-to-ε Multi-Dimensional Revenue Maximization, Y.A.G. and S. Matthew Weinberg, Journal of the ACM, forthcoming, 2021 (preliminary version appeared in FOCS 2018). (arXiv) * Bounding the Menu-Size of Approximately Optimal Auctions via Optimal-Transport Duality, Y.A.G., in Proceedings of the 50th Annual ACM Symposium on Theory of Computing (STOC), pp. 123–131, 2018. (arXiv) * The Menu-Size Complexity of Revenue Approximation, Moshe Babaioff, Y.A.G., and Noam Nisan, in Proceedings of the 49th Annual ACM Symposium on Theory of Computing (STOC), pp. 869–877, 2017. (arXiv) Bio: Yannai Gonczarowski is a postdoctoral researcher at Microsoft Research New England. His main research interests lie in the interface between the theory of computation, economic theory, and game theory—an area commonly referred to as Algorithmic Game Theory. In particular, Yannai is interested in various aspects of complexity in mechanism and market design (deﬁned broadly from auctions to matching markets), including the interface between mechanism design and machine learning. Yannai received his PhD from the Departments of Math and CS, and the Center for the Study of Rationality, at the Hebrew University of Jerusalem, where he was advised by Sergiu Hart and Noam Nisan, as an Adams Fellow of the Israel Academy of Sciences and Humanities. Throughout most of his PhD studies, he was also a long-term research intern at Microsoft Research in Herzliya. He holds an M.Sc. in Math (summa cum laude) and a B.Sc. in Math and CS (summa cum laude, Valedictorian) from the Hebrew University. Yannai is also a professionally-trained opera singer, having acquired a bachelor’s degree and a master’s degree in Classical Singing at the Jerusalem Academy of Music and Dance. Yannai’s doctoral dissertation was recognized with several awards, including the 2018 Michael B. Maschler Prize of the Israeli Chapter of the Game Theory Society and the ACM SIGecom Doctoral Dissertation Award for 2018. For the design and implementation of the National Matching System for Gap-Year Programs in Israel, he was awarded the Best Paper Award at MATCH-UP’19 and the inaugural INFORMS AMD Michael H. Rothkopf Junior Researcher Paper Prize (first place) for 2020. Yannai is also the recipient of the inaugural ACM SIGecom Award for Best Presentation by a Student or Postdoctoral Researcher at EC’18. His first textbook, “Mathematical Logic through Python” (Gonczarowski and Nisan), which introduces a new approach to teaching the material of a basic Logic course to Computer Science students, tailored to the unique intuitions and strengths of this cohort of students, is forthcoming in Cambridge University Press. Host: Eli Upfal The Interface between Theoretical Economics and Theoretical Computer Science: Revenue Maximization as a Case Study Mar 15 12:00pm The Interface between Theoretical Economics and Theoretical Computer Science: Revenue Maximization as a Case Study Yannai Gonczarowski Microsoft New England Please Note: Brown Login Required For This Talk Abstract: Traditional auctions, and more generally, traditional economic transactions, have always been of “manual scale.” For example, the number of auctions conducted even in the largest of auction houses was moderate enough (and each item—expensive enough) so that expert appraisers could dedicate time to surveying each item sold, and use their expertise to determine a starting price that is optimized to maximize the revenue of the auction house. Such manual solutions were feasible until the Internet changed our world. For instance, whenever you search for something using your favorite search engine, a split-second auction is performed among (many times a large number of) advertisers who are related to your search term in order to determine which ads will be shown to you in the results page a mere moment later. The quantity of these auctions (billions per day), together with the low worth of each (many times less than a single cent each, yet in total reaching many billions of dollars), makes any per-auction manual intervention, say, in choosing the “starting price,” completely impractical. This explosion in online and computerized economic activity necessitates the study and understanding of economic mechanisms and markets of unprecedented scale. How good can simple mechanisms be? How complex must optimal mechanisms be? And, most substantially, what are the precise trade-offs between simplicity and quality? In this talk, I will survey some of my results on such questions for three notions of complexity within the context of the design of high-revenue auctions: the complexity of the machine-learning of high-revenue auctions, the complexity of describing high-revenue auctions, and the communication complexity of running high-revenue auctions. Based also on joint works with Moshe Babaioff, Noam Nisan, and S. Matthew Weinberg. In the talk, I will survey results from my following three papers: * The Sample Complexity of Up-to-ε Multi-Dimensional Revenue Maximization, Y.A.G. and S. Matthew Weinberg, Journal of the ACM, forthcoming, 2021 (preliminary version appeared in FOCS 2018). (arXiv) * Bounding the Menu-Size of Approximately Optimal Auctions via Optimal-Transport Duality, Y.A.G., in Proceedings of the 50th Annual ACM Symposium on Theory of Computing (STOC), pp. 123–131, 2018. (arXiv) * The Menu-Size Complexity of Revenue Approximation, Moshe Babaioff, Y.A.G., and Noam Nisan, in Proceedings of the 49th Annual ACM Symposium on Theory of Computing (STOC), pp. 869–877, 2017. (arXiv) Bio: Yannai Gonczarowski is a postdoctoral researcher at Microsoft Research New England. His main research interests lie in the interface between the theory of computation, economic theory, and game theory—an area commonly referred to as Algorithmic Game Theory. In particular, Yannai is interested in various aspects of complexity in mechanism and market design (deﬁned broadly from auctions to matching markets), including the interface between mechanism design and machine learning. Yannai received his PhD from the Departments of Math and CS, and the Center for the Study of Rationality, at the Hebrew University of Jerusalem, where he was advised by Sergiu Hart and Noam Nisan, as an Adams Fellow of the Israel Academy of Sciences and Humanities. Throughout most of his PhD studies, he was also a long-term research intern at Microsoft Research in Herzliya. He holds an M.Sc. in Math (summa cum laude) and a B.Sc. in Math and CS (summa cum laude, Valedictorian) from the Hebrew University. Yannai is also a professionally-trained opera singer, having acquired a bachelor’s degree and a master’s degree in Classical Singing at the Jerusalem Academy of Music and Dance. Yannai’s doctoral dissertation was recognized with several awards, including the 2018 Michael B. Maschler Prize of the Israeli Chapter of the Game Theory Society and the ACM SIGecom Doctoral Dissertation Award for 2018. For the design and implementation of the National Matching System for Gap-Year Programs in Israel, he was awarded the Best Paper Award at MATCH-UP’19 and the inaugural INFORMS AMD Michael H. Rothkopf Junior Researcher Paper Prize (first place) for 2020. Yannai is also the recipient of the inaugural ACM SIGecom Award for Best Presentation by a Student or Postdoctoral Researcher at EC’18. His first textbook, “Mathematical Logic through Python” (Gonczarowski and Nisan), which introduces a new approach to teaching the material of a basic Logic course to Computer Science students, tailored to the unique intuitions and strengths of this cohort of students, is forthcoming in Cambridge University Press. Host: Eli Upfal The Interface between Theoretical Economics and Theoretical Computer Science: Revenue Maximization as a Case Study (Computer Science) Mar 12 12:00pm Learning through Interaction in Cooperative Multi-Agent Systems Kalesha Bullard Facebook AI Research Please Note: Brown Login Required For This Talk Abstract: Effective communication is an important skill for enabling information exchange and cooperation in multi-agent systems, in which agents coexist in shared environments with humans and/or other artificial agents. Indeed, human domain experts can be a highly informative source of instructive guidance and feedback (supervision). My prior work explores this type of interaction in depth, as a mechanism for enabling learning for artificial agents. However, dependence upon human partners for acquiring or adapting skills has important limitations. Human time and cognitive load is typically constrained (particularly in realistic settings) and data collection from humans, though potentially qualitatively rich, can be slow and costly to acquire. Yet, the ability to learn through interaction with other agents represents another powerful mechanism for enabling interactive learning. Though other artificial agents may also be novices, agents can co-learn through providing each other evaluative feedback (reinforcement), given the learning task has been sufficiently structured and allows for generalization to novel settings. This talk presents research that investigates methods for enabling agents to learn general communication skills through interactions with other agents. In particular, the talk will focus on my ongoing work within Multi-Agent Reinforcement Learning, investigating emergent communication protocols, inspired by communication in more realistic settings. We present a novel problem setting and a general approach that allows for zero-shot coordination (ZSC), i.e., discovering protocols that can generalize to independently trained agents. We also explore and analyze specific difficulties associated with finding globally optimal ZSC protocols, as complexity of the communication task increases or the modality for communication changes (e.g. from symbolic communication to implicit communication through physical movement, by an embodied artificial agent). Overall, this work opens up exciting avenues for learning general communication protocols in complex domains. Bio: Kalesha Bullard is a postdoctoral researcher at Facebook AI Research. She completed her PhD in Computer Science at Georgia Institute of Technology in 2019, where her research focused within the space of interactive robot learning. During her postdoc, Kalesha has expanded her research to explore the space of multi-agent reinforcement learning, currently investigating how to enable embodied multi-agent populations to learn general communication protocols. More broadly, Kalesha’s research interests span autonomous reasoning and decision making for artificial agents in multi-agent settings. To date, her research has focused on principled methods for enabling agents to learn through interaction with other agents (human or artificial) to achieve shared goals. Beyond research, Kalesha has participated in a number of service roles throughout her research career, recently serving on organizing and program committees for workshops associated with several top Artificial Intelligence conference venues (NeurIPS, AAAI, AAMAS). This past year, she was selected as one of the 2020 Electrical Engineering and Computer Science (EECS) Rising Stars. Host: George Konidaris Learning through Interaction in Cooperative Multi-Agent Systems Mar 11 12:00pm - 1:30pm Workshop • “Discover Your Data: Modeling and Visualizing Data in the Humanities” Data can be an important part of a humanities research project. It can provide new insights into your work, offering new ways to understand and make sense of your subject matter. Digital humanities can be an important part of the 21st century Ph.D.’s professional skill set. Working with data means you need to be concerned with that data at every stage of the project. Where does it come from? How accessible is it? How has it been cleaned? How will it be preserved? How do you negotiate the choices that need to be made as you move from research questions to argument and presentation? Join us for a workshop on the choices you need to make when you decide to use data as part of a scholarly project. CDS staff and their graduate student partners will discuss their digital projects. How were they designed and produced? What decisions did they make about tools and process? How did that shape the project and the results? What did they learn, what choices did they make, and what would they do differently next time? Featured speakers and projects include, among others: Talya Housman (Ph.D., History, 2019), on her dissertation “‘To Plunder All Under the Petty-Coate’: Prosecuting Sexual Crime and Gendered Violence in The English Revolution” and the database she created. George Elliott (Ph.D. Candidate, History), gathering data about 17th-century Connecticut alchemist Gershom Bulkeley. Maiah Letsch (Graduate Student, History, Utrecht University), on her work with the Database of Indigenous Slavery in the Americas. This workshop is aimed at humanities scholars and students without a background in digital scholarship. Many of these issues are also of concern for projects in the sciences and social sciences, and all are welcome. Presented by the Center for Digital Scholarship, the Cogut Institute for the Humanities as part of its 21st-Century Ph.D. Series, and the Data Science Initiative. Workshop • “Discover Your Data: Modeling and Visualizing Data in the Humanities” Humanities Mar 11 12:00pm Translational Research Seminar Series Zoom The Advance-CTR Translational Research Seminar Series showcases clinical and translational research from across Rhode Island. Presentations, followed by feedback, allow presenters the opportunity to refine and strengthen their research. Seminars are held virtually on the second Thursday of each month. March Jacquelyn Fede, PhD: “Ascertaining and Understanding Health Priorities in Rhode Island” Julie Plaut, PhD: Title TBA Details: March 11, 2021 at 12 p.m. ET. Translational Research Seminar Series (Advance-CTR) Biology, Medicine, Public Health, Entrepreneurship, Mathematics, Technology, Engineering, Psychology & Cognitive Sciences, Research, Teaching & Learning, Training, Professional Development Mar 10 4:00pm DSI & CCMB Data Wednesday: Suman Bera (UC Santa Cruz) SUMAN BERA Postdoctoral Researcher, UC Santa Cruz NEAR-LINEAR TIME HOMOMORPHISM COUNTING IN BOUNDING DEGENERACY GRAPHS: THE BARRIER OF LONG INDUCED CYCLES Counting homomorphisms of a constant-sized pattern graph H in an input graph G is a fundamental computational problem. There is a rich history of studying the complexity of this problem, under various constraints on the input G and the pattern H. Given the significance of this problem and the large sizes of modern inputs, we investigate when linear-time algorithms are possible. We focus on the case when the input graph has bounded degeneracy, a commonly studied and practically relevant class for homomorphism counting. We study the following question. Can we precisely characterize the patterns H for which linear-time algorithms are possible? We completely resolve this problem, discovering a clean dichotomy using fine-grained complexity. We prove the following: if the largest induced cycle in H has length at most 5, then there is a linear-time algorithm for counting H-homomorphisms in bounded degeneracy graphs. If the largest induced cycle in H has a length of at least 6, then (assuming standard fine-grained complexity conjectures), there is no linear time algorithm for counting H-homomorphisms. This is joint work with Noujan Pashanasangi and Prof. C. Seshadhri and is based on the following two papers: Near-Linear Time Homomorphism Counting in Bounded Degeneracy Graphs: The Barrier of Long Induced Cycles. (SODA 2021) Linear Time Subgraph Counting, Graph Degeneracy, and the Chasm at Size Six. (ITCS 2020) BIOGRAPHY Suman Bera is a postdoctoral researcher at UC Santa Cruz, working with Prof. C. Seshadhri. He obtained my Ph.D. in Computer Science from Dartmouth College, where he was advised by Prof. Amit Chakrabarti, and completed his masters at the Indian Institute of Technology Delhi (IIT Delhi) under the supervision of Prof. Amit Kumar. Before that, he was an undergraduate student at Jadavpur University. Somewhere in between, he spent a couple of years at IBM Research Lab (New Delhi) and Adobe India. Suman’s research is broadly on the topic of the foundations of data science. In particular, he is interested in large graph analysis. His work lies in the intersection of theoretical computer science and data mining. He is also interested in algorithmic fairness. In the past, he has enjoyed working on approximation algorithms and arithmetic circuit complexity. Please note that this virtual event, including attendees’ Zoom video, audio and screen name, and questions or chats, will be recorded. All or portions of the event recording may be shared through Brown University’s digital channels. Individuals who do not want their identities to be captured are solely responsible for turning off their camera, muting their microphone, and/or adjusting their screen name accordingly. By attending this event, you consent to your name, voice, and/or image being recorded and to Brown University reproducing, distributing, and otherwise displaying the recording, within its sole discretion. Data Wednesdays The Data Science Initiative joins the Center for Computational and Molecular Biology (CCMB) every Wednesday afternoon, 4 – 5 pm during the academic year to present lecturers in various mathematical and statistical fields worldwide, as well as local researchers on Brown’s campus. The aim is to provide students, staff, faculty, and visitors with an introduction to current research topics in the fields of data science, mathematics, statistics, and computer science. DSI & CCMB Data Wednesday: Suman Bera (UC Santa Cruz) Mar 8 12:00pm - 1:00pm Learning Topic Models: Identifiability and Rate of Convergence Dr. Feng Liang Associate Professor at the Department of Statistics, University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign Title: Learning Topic Models: Identifiability and Rate of Convergence Abstract: Topic models provide a useful text-mining tool for learning, extracting, and discovering latent structures in large text corpora. Although a plethora of algorithms have been proposed for topic modeling, little work is done to study the statistical accuracy of the estimated structures. In this paper, we propose an MLE of latent topics based on an integrated likelihood. We further introduce a new set of conditions for topic model identifiability, which are weaker than conditions that reply to the existence of anchor words. In addition, we study the estimation consistency and establish the convergence rate of the proposed estimator. Our algorithm, which is an application of the EM algorithm, is demonstrated to have competitive performance through simulation studies and a real application. This is based on joint work with Yinyin Chen, Shishuang He, and Yun Yang. Learning Topic Models: Identifiability and Rate of Convergence Biology, Medicine, Public Health, Graduate School, Postgraduate Education, Mathematics, Technology, Engineering, Research, Training, Professional Development Mar 8 12:00pm Visual Pattern Exploration at and across Scales Fritz Lekschas Harvard University Please Note: Brown Login Required For This Talk Abstract: Visually exploring data is a powerful approach to discover, understand, and interpret novel or not-well defined patterns. It allows us to gain insights and generate hypotheses for subsequent analyses. However, visual exploration can become challenging when the patterns of interest are sparsely-distributed, several orders of magnitude smaller than the entire dataset, or detected with high uncertainty. In this talk, I will present new visualization systems and interaction techniques for efficiently browsing, comparing, and finding patterns in the context of genomic, geospatial, and time-series data. Specifically, I will describe a web platform for browsing multi-modal and multi-scale datasets, as well as their guided navigation. I will present a generalized framework and toolkit for interactively arranging, grouping, and aggregating thousands of pattern instances. And I will demonstrate how interactive visual machine learning can enhance our ability to find patterns effectively. In combining visualization and human-centered machine-learning, these systems ensure that human-in-the-loop data analysis remains feasible with increasingly-large and complex scientific datasets. Bio: Fritz Lekschas is a Ph.D. candidate in computer science at Harvard University, where he is advised by Hanspeter Pfister. His research focuses on the development of scalable visual exploration systems for analyzing patterns in biomedical data. Prior to his doctoral program, Fritz visited Harvard Medical School as a post-graduate research fellow to work with Nils Gehlenborg and Peter J. Park on ontology-guided exploration of biological data repositories. He earned his bachelor’s and master of science degrees in bioinformatics from the Freie Universität Berlin, Germany. Fritz’s work has been recognized with several awards, including a Siebel Scholars Award, the Best Paper Award from EuroVis 2020, and a Best Paper Honorable Mention from IEEE InfoVis 2020. Host: David Laidlaw Visual Pattern Exploration at and across Scales Mar 5 12:00pm - 1:00pm Media, Data Science, and Social Change A Conversation with Harmony Labs Focused on the effects of media on society – Harmony Labs envisions a world where media systems support healthy, democratic culture and healthy, happy people. Michael Slaby ’02 and Riki Conrey will share their unique approach to problem-solving and using data for social good. How does data and technology drive organizations and companies, and can media serve the public good? Register here to attend. The event is co-sponsored by the Nelson Center, the Watson Institute, and the Data Science Initiative (DSI) at Brown. Riki Conrey Riki is the Director of Science at Harmony Labs and comes to the team with an extensive background in data science for social good. Most known for her work on narrative research projects like Story at Scale and the Peoria Project, Riki has joined Harmony Labs to help researchers connect artists to the insights they need about their audiences. Riki holds a Ph.D. from Northwestern University in Social Psychology but only because data science wasn’t invented yet when she was being educated. Michael Slaby ’02 Michael is chief strategist at Harmony Labs working on accelerating media reform and transformation. Previously, he founded and was head of mission of Timshel—a social impact technology company. He was a fellow at the Shorenstein Center at the Harvard Kennedy School of Government. Michael helped lead the Obama for America campaign as chief integration and innovation officer in 2012 where he oversaw all technology and analytics, and as deputy digital director and chief technology officer in 2008. Media, Data Science, and Social Change A Conversation with Harmony Labs Careers, Recruiting, Internships, Education, Teaching, Instruction, Entrepreneurship, Government, Public & International Affairs, Identity, Culture, Inclusion, Research Mar 5 12:00pm From Darwin to Deep Learning: A tale of Algorithms, Optimization and Chaos Vaggos Chatziafratis Google Research NY Please Note: Brown Login Required For This Talk Title: From Darwin to Deep Learning: A tale of Algorithms, Optimization and Chaos Abstract: In this talk, we shed new light on two basic questions in machine learning using ideas from approximation algorithms, optimization and dynamical systems. The first question concerns a popular tool in unsupervised learning that partitions a dataset in a hierarchical manner, called Hierarchical Clustering. Despite its long history and plethora of heuristics, a principled framework for understanding its optimization properties had been missing. Our work takes a formal approach and puts Hierarchical Clustering on a firm theoretical grounding, highlighting new connections to convex optimization and graph algorithms. The second question concerns the benefits of depth in neural networks. A crucial element in the success of deep learning is the deployment of progressively deeper networks, but is there a mathematical explanation behind this phenomenon? Introducing new ideas from discrete dynamical systems, we present depth vs width tradeoffs, showing that for certain tasks, depth can be exponentially more important than width. Bio: Vaggos Chatziafratis’ primary interests are in Algorithms and Machine Learning Theory. He is currently a Visiting Faculty Researcher at Google Research in New York, hosted by Mohammad Mahdian and Vahab Mirrokni, where he is part of the Algorithms and Graph Mining teams. Prior to that, he received his Ph.D. in Computer Science at Stanford, where he was part of the Theory group, advised by Tim Roughgarden and co-advised by Moses Charikar. His PhD thesis was on algorithms and their limitations for Hierarchical Clustering. Prior to Stanford, he received a Diploma in EECS from the National Technical University of Athens, Greece. Host: Daniel Ritchie From Darwin to Deep Learning: A tale of Algorithms, Optimization and Chaos (Computer Science) Mar 4 12:00pm Algorithms and Uncertainty Sahil Singla Princeton University/Institute for Advanced Study Please Note: Brown Login Required For This Talk Abstract: Modern algorithms have to regularly deal with uncertain inputs. This uncertainty can take many forms, e.g., in online advertisement future users are unknown (the input arrives online), in spectrum-auctions bidder valuations are unknown (the users are strategic), and in oil-drilling the amount of oil is unknown (the input is stochastic). Traditionally, there has not been significant overlap in the study of these different forms of uncertainty. I believe that studying these uncertainties together gives us a lot more power. In this talk, I will give an overview of my research in “Algorithms and Uncertainty” where I am able to successfully use these relationships. Studying these different forms of uncertainty together allows us to find interconnections and build unifying techniques. As an example, I will talk about my progress on long-standing combinatorial auctions problems that deal with strategic inputs, by using techniques which were originally developed for online inputs. Moreover, a combined study of uncertainty helps us find richer cross-cutting models. For example, several important online problems do not admit good algorithms in the classical worst-case models. I will talk about how to give a “beyond the worst-case” analysis for such problems and obtain more nuanced performance guarantees, by using models/techniques arising in other forms of uncertainty. Bio: Sahil Singla is a Research Instructor (postdoc) jointly between Princeton University and Institute for Advanced Study. He received his Ph.D. in Computer Science from Carnegie Mellon University, where he was advised by Anupam Gupta and Manuel Blum. His research is in Algorithms and Uncertainty where the goal is to design optimal algorithms for uncertain inputs by studying different forms of uncertainty together. Sahil has served on the program committees of the conferences SODA, ICALP, EC, and ESA. His research has been invited for talks at Highlights Beyond EC, at China Theory Week, and at Highlights of Algorithms. He recently contributed a chapter to the book “Beyond the Worst-Case Analysis of Algorithms”. Host: Philip Klein Algorithms and Uncertainty (Computer Science) Mar 3 2:00pm DSI & CCMB Data Wednesday (Special Time @ 2PM): Charalampos “Babis” Tsourakakis (Boston University) CHARALAMPOS “BABIS” TSOURAKAKIS Assistant Professor, Departments of Computer Science and Electrical/Computer Engineering, Boston University ALGORITHMIC ADVANCES IN DENSE SUBGRAPH DISCOVERY Finding dense subgraphs in large-scale networks is an important graph mining problem with numerous applications, including anomaly detection in security, community detection in social networks, and mining the Web graph. In this talk, Charalampos will present recent advances related to the well-studied densest subgraph problem (DSP). Specifically, he will discuss some recent advances including how we can obtain a near-optimal solution to the DSP without maximum flows, motif-aware extensions of the DSP that enable the discovery of large-near cliques in massive networks, and risk-averse versions of the DSP on graphs whose edges are naturally associated with uncertainty. BIOGRAPHY Charalampos Tsourakakis is an Assistant Professor in Computer Science at Boston University. He obtained his Ph.D. in the Algorithms, Combinatorics and Optimization program at Carnegie Mellon under the supervision of Alan Frieze, he was a postdoctoral fellow at Brown University and Harvard University mentored by Eli Upfal and Michael Mitzenmacher respectively. Before joining Boston University, he worked as a researcher in the Google Brain team. He won a “best paper” award in IEEE Data Mining, has delivered three tutorials in the ACM SIGKDD Conference on Knowledge Discovery and Data Mining, and has designed two graph mining libraries for large-scale graph mining, one of which has been officially included in Windows Azure. His research focuses on large-scale graph mining and machine learning. Please note that this virtual event, including attendees’ Zoom video, audio and screen name, and questions or chats, will be recorded. All or portions of the event recording may be shared through Brown University’s digital channels. Individuals who do not want their identities to be captured are solely responsible for turning off their camera, muting their microphone, and/or adjusting their screen name accordingly. By attending this event, you consent to your name, voice, and/or image being recorded and to Brown University reproducing, distributing, and otherwise displaying the recording, within its sole discretion. Data Wednesdays The Data Science Initiative joins the Center for Computational and Molecular Biology (CCMB) every Wednesday afternoon, 4 – 5 pm during the academic year to present lecturers in various mathematical and statistical fields worldwide, as well as local researchers on Brown’s campus. The aim is to provide students, staff, faculty, and visitors with an introduction to current research topics in the fields of data science, mathematics, statistics, and computer science. DSI & CCMB Data Wednesday (Special Time @ 2PM): Charalampos “Babis” Tsourakakis (Boston University) Mar 3 12:00pm Ethical AI Systems: Algorithmic Frameworks and Challenges Shahin Jabbari Harvard University Please Note: Brown Login Required For This Talk Abstract: AI systems and algorithms affect and improve our lives on a daily basis. Recently, there has been a large body of empirical evidence for the negative consequences of such systems on our society. In this talk, I discuss two categories of these negative impacts. In the first part, I focus on AI systems whose decisions directly impact humans (e.g., in settings such as hiring and lending). I show how to mathematically quantify bias and discrimination in these settings, as well as how to build algorithmic frameworks that provably mitigate such undesirable consequences. In the second part, I focus on the indirect impacts of AI systems on humans. In particular, I study the interactions between AI systems and show how tools from game theory can be used to design systems that lead to socially desirable outcomes. Bio: Shahin Jabbari is a postdoctoral fellow at the Center for Research on Computation and Society (CRCS) in the school of Engineering and Applied Sciences at Harvard University hosted by Milind Tambe. Shahin’s research interests span across many areas including machine learning, game theory, crowd-sourcing, and multi-agent systems. His research mainly focuses on understanding and mitigating the negative impacts of algorithmic decision-making and artificial intelligence on society. Shahin completed his Ph.D. at the University of Pennsylvania in 2019 where he was advised by Michael Kearns. He is the recipient of the Best Paper Awards from the 11th Conference on Decision and Game Theory for Security, as well as the 35th Annual German Conference on Artificial Intelligence. Host: Amy Greenwald Ethical AI Systems: Algorithmic Frameworks and Challenges Mar 3 11:00am - 12:30pm Advance-CTR Qualitative Methods Series Zoom Join us for the final installment in this 3-part series exploring qualitative methods around the topics of design thinking, rapid ethnography, and concept mapping. This week: Akilah Dulin, PhD Associate Professor, Center for Health Promotion and Health Equity, Brown University School of Public Health “Applying Concept Mapping Methodology To Understand Resilience Resources Among African Americans Living With HIV In The Southern United States” Dr. Dulin is an Associate Professor of Behavioral and Social Sciences in the Department of Behavioral and Social Sciences in the Brown University School of Public Health. She is affiliated with the Center for Health Promotion and Health Equity. Dr. Dulin has two primary research foci that include examining (1) risk factors and resilience resources related to cardiovascular disease (CVD) risk (e.g., diet, physical activity, obesity) and HIV outcomes among racial and ethnic minorities and across the life span. She uses a variety of research approaches to examine the aforementioned research areas including community engaged research, mixed methods, quantitative methods, and secondary data analyses. Advance-CTR Qualitative Methods Series (Advance-CTR) Biology, Medicine, Public Health, Entrepreneurship, Psychology & Cognitive Sciences, Research Mar 2 12:00pm - 1:30pm Advance-CTR Introduction to REDCap Zoom Register now for our “Introduction to REDCap” virtual workshop with Sarah B. Andrea, PhD, MPH. Geared towards new or novice REDCap users, this class answers “What” REDCap is, “Why” you want to use it, and goes through the entire lifecycle of a REDCap project – from initial setup to data entry and finally exporting your data. The workshop will begin Tuesday March 2nd, 2020 at 12:00PM EST. Advance-CTR Introduction to REDCap (Advance-CTR) Biology, Medicine, Public Health, Entrepreneurship, Research, Training, Professional Development Mar 1 12:00pm - 1:00pm Statistics Seminar Series | Marina Vannucci, Rice University Marina Vannucci, PhD Noah Harding Professor of Statistics, Rice University Title: Dirichlet-Multinomial Regression Models with Bayesian Variable Selection for Microbiome Data Abstract: I will describe Bayesian models developed for understanding how the microbiome varies within a population of interest. I will focus on integrative analyses, where the goal is to combine microbiome data with other available information (e.g. dietary patterns) to identify significant associations between taxa and a set of predictors. For this, I will describe a general class of hierarchical Dirichlet-Multinomial (DM) regression models which use spike-and-slab priors for the selection of the significant associations. I will also describe data augmentation techniques to efficiently embed DM regression models into joint modeling frameworks, in order to investigate how the microbiome may affect the relation between dietary factors and phenotypic responses, such as body mass index. I will discuss advantages and limitations of the proposed methods with respect to current standard approaches used in the microbiome community, and will present results on the analysis of real datasets. Statistics Seminar Series | Marina Vannucci, Rice University (Biostatistics) Biology, Medicine, Public Health, BioStatsSeminar, Graduate School, Postgraduate Education, Mathematics, Technology, Engineering, Research, Training, Professional Development Mar 1 12:00pm Demystifying (Deep) Reinforcement Learning: The Optimist, The Pessimist, and Their Provable Efficiency Zhuoran Yang Princeton University Please Note: Brown Login Required For This Talk Abstract: Coupled with powerful function approximators such as deep neural networks, reinforcement learning (RL) achieves tremendous empirical successes. However, its theoretical understandings lag behind. In particular, it remains unclear how to provably attain the optimal policy with a finite regret or sample complexity. In this talk, we will present the two sides of the same coin, which demonstrates an intriguing duality between optimism and pessimism. - In the online setting, we aim to learn the optimal policy by actively interacting with an environment. To strike a balance between exploration and exploitation, we propose an optimistic least-squares value iteration algorithm, which achieves a \sqrt regret in the presence of linear, kernel, and neural function approximators. - In the offline setting, we aim to learn the optimal policy based on a dataset collected a priori. Due to a lack of active interactions with the environment, we suffer from the insufficient coverage of the dataset. To maximally exploit the dataset, we propose a pessimistic least-squares value iteration algorithm, which achieves a minimax-optimal sample complexity. Bio: Zhuoran Yang is a final-year Ph.D. student in the Department of Operations Research and Financial Engineering at Princeton University, advised by Professor Jianqing Fan and Professor Han Liu. Before attending Princeton, He obtained a Bachelor of Mathematics degree from Tsinghua University. His research interests lie in the interface between machine learning, statistics, and optimization. The primary goal of his research is to design a new generation of machine learning algorithms for large-scale and multi-agent decision-making problems, with both statistical and computational guarantees. Besides, he is also interested in the application of learning-based decision-making algorithms to real-world problems that arise in robotics, personalized medicine, and computational social science. Host: Roberta De Vito Demystifying (Deep) Reinforcement Learning: The Optimist, The Pessimist, and Their Provable Efficiency Mar 1 12:00pm Demystifying (Deep) Reinforcement Learning: The Optimist, The Pessimist, and Their Provable Efficiency Zhuoran Yang Princeton University Please Note: Brown Login Required For This Talk Abstract: Coupled with powerful function approximators such as deep neural networks, reinforcement learning (RL) achieves tremendous empirical successes. However, its theoretical understandings lag behind. In particular, it remains unclear how to provably attain the optimal policy with a finite regret or sample complexity. In this talk, we will present the two sides of the same coin, which demonstrates an intriguing duality between optimism and pessimism. - In the online setting, we aim to learn the optimal policy by actively interacting with an environment. To strike a balance between exploration and exploitation, we propose an optimistic least-squares value iteration algorithm, which achieves a \sqrt regret in the presence of linear, kernel, and neural function approximators. - In the offline setting, we aim to learn the optimal policy based on a dataset collected a priori. Due to a lack of active interactions with the environment, we suffer from the insufficient coverage of the dataset. To maximally exploit the dataset, we propose a pessimistic least-squares value iteration algorithm, which achieves a minimax-optimal sample complexity. Bio: Zhuoran Yang is a final-year Ph.D. student in the Department of Operations Research and Financial Engineering at Princeton University, advised by Professor Jianqing Fan and Professor Han Liu. Before attending Princeton, He obtained a Bachelor of Mathematics degree from Tsinghua University. His research interests lie in the interface between machine learning, statistics, and optimization. The primary goal of his research is to design a new generation of machine learning algorithms for large-scale and multi-agent decision-making problems, with both statistical and computational guarantees. Besides, he is also interested in the application of learning-based decision-making algorithms to real-world problems that arise in robotics, personalized medicine, and computational social science. Host: Roberta De Vito Demystifying (Deep) Reinforcement Learning: The Optimist, The Pessimist, and Their Provable Efficiency (Computer Science) Feb 26 12:00pm Probabilistic proofs: theory, hardware, and everything in between Riad Wahby Stanford University Please Note: Brown Login Required For This Talk Abstract: In the past decade, systems that use probabilistic proofs in real-world applications have seen explosive growth. These systems build upon some of the crown jewels of theoretical computer science—interactive proofs, probabilistically checkable proofs, and zero-knowledge proofs—to solve problems of trust and privacy in a wide range of settings. This talk describes my work building systems that answer questions ranging from “how can we build trustworthy hardware that uses untrusted components?” to “how can we reduce the cost of verifying smart contract execution in blockchains?” Along the way, I will discuss the pervasive challenges of efficiency, expressiveness, and scalability in this research area; my approach to addressing these challenges; and future directions that promise to bring this exciting technology to bear on an even wider range of applications. Bio: Riad S. Wahby is a Ph.D. candidate at Stanford, advised by Dan Boneh and Keith Winstein. His research interests include systems, computer security, and applied cryptography. Prior to attending Stanford, Riad spent ten years as an analog and mixed-signal integrated circuit designer. Riad and his collaborators received a 2016 IEEE Security and Privacy Distinguished Student Paper award; his work on hashing to elliptic curves is being standardized by the IETF. Host: Vasilis Kemerlis Probabilistic proofs: theory, hardware, and everything in between Feb 25 4:00pm - 5:00pm Hassenfeld Institute Seminar Series presents “Kinder-ready clinics: Emerging models of how clinics can support parents in early-childhood development through low-cost, scalable interventions” Please join us on Thursday, February 25, at 4 p.m. for “Kinder-ready clinics: Emerging models of how clinics can support parents in early-childhood development through low-cost, scalable interventions,” presented by Susanna Loeb, PhD, and Lisa Chamberlain, MD, MPH. Dr. Loeb is director of the Annenberg Institute for School Reform and professor of education and of international and public affairs at Brown University. Dr. Loeb is a member of the Executive Council of The Policy Lab at Brown. Dr. Chamberlain is associate professor of pediatrics, associate chair of policy and community and the Arline and Pete Harman Faculty Scholar at Stanford Children’s Hospital. She founded and co-directs the Stanford Pediatric Advocacy Program to train leaders in community pediatrics and advocacy. Please register below to receive the Zoom link for this virtual event. Hassenfeld Institute Seminar Series presents “Kinder-ready clinics: Emerging models of how clinics can support parents in early-childhood development through low-cost, scalable interventions” (Hassenfeld Child Health Innovation Institute) Biology, Medicine, Public Health, Education, Teaching, Instruction, Research, Teaching & Learning Feb 25 12:00pm Defining and Ensuring Algorithmic Fairness in Artificial Intelligence Ben Fish Mila Please Note: Brown Login Required For This Talk Title: Defining and Ensuring Algorithmic Fairness in Artificial Intelligence Abstract: Artificial intelligence is increasingly used to make decisions about people in social domains. Failure to take into account its effects on people’s lives risks grave consequences, including enacting and perpetuating discrimination, and more broadly creating AI systems imbued with values we do not intend or desire. In this talk, I will detail the development over the last few years of increasingly sophisticated approaches to formalize and understand the normative impact of AI, and my own contributions to these approaches. Using examples from binary classification, influence maximization, and hiring markets, I will illustrate through theory and experiments the impact that considerations of fairness have in creating and analyzing algorithms. I will provide algorithms for ensuring group-level fairness in binary classification problems, algorithms for how to more equitably spread information in a social network, and a new approach to defining fairness in hiring markets. This work demonstrates how explicit mathematical modeling of the social impact of decision making can reveal new ways to capture the moral impacts of AI, and emphasizes that further progress in this area will be made by creating AI specifically for the surrounding social context in which it is embedded. Bio: Ben Fish is a postdoctoral fellow at Mila hosted by Fernando Diaz, which he joined after moving from the Fairness, Accountability, Transparency, and Ethics (FATE) Group at Microsoft Research Montréal, also hosted by Fernando Diaz. His research develops methods for machine learning and other computational systems that incorporate human values and social context. This includes scholarship in fairness and ethics in machine learning and learning over social networks. He received his Ph.D. from the University of Illinois at Chicago as a member of the Mathematical Computer Science group. He was previously a visiting researcher at the University of Melbourne and the University of Utah, and earned a B.A. from Pomona College in Mathematics and Computer Science. Host: Seny Kamara Defining and Ensuring Algorithmic Fairness in Artificial Intelligence (Computer Science) Feb 24 4:00pm DSI & CCMB Data Wednesday (2 of 2) @ 4PM (Robert Ghrist, U Penn) ROBERT GHRIST Professor, Departments of Mathematics and Electrical Systems/Engineering, University of Pennsylvania OPINION DYNAMICS ON SHEAVES There is a long history of networked dynamical systems that models the spread of opinions over social networks, with the graph Laplacian playing a lead role. One of the difficulties in modeling opinion dynamics is the presence of polarization: not everyone comes to a consensus. This talk will describe work joint with Jakob Hansen [OSU] introducing a new model for opinion dynamics using sheaves of vector spaces over social networks. The graph Laplacian is enriched to a Hodge Laplacian, and the resulting dynamics on *discourse sheaves* can lead to some very interesting and perhaps more realistic outcomes. BIOGRAPHY Robert Ghrist is the Andrea Mitchell PIK Professor of Mathematics and Electrical & Systems Engineering at the University of Pennsylvania. After earning a BS in Mechanical Engineering (University of Toledo, 1991), and the MS and Ph.D. in Applied Mathematics (Cornell University, 1994, 1995), he held positions in Mathematics departments at the University of Texas (Austin), Georgia Tech, and the University of Illinois (Urbana-Champaign). He has been at Penn since 2008. Ghrist is a recognized leader in the field of Applied Algebraic Topology, with publications detailing topological methods for sensor networks, robotics, signal processing, data analysis, optimization, and more. He is the author of a leading textbook on the subject (Elementary Applied Topology, 2014), and has managed numerous large DoD grants from AFOSR, ASDRE, DARPA, and ONR. His research has been recognized with the NSF CAREER, NSF PECASE, SciAm50, and Vannevar Bush Faculty Fellow awards. Ghrist has been an invited speaker at two International Congresses of Mathematicians: once (Madrid 2006) for research and once (Seoul, 2014) for education. Ghrist is a dedicated expositor and communicator of Mathematics, with teaching awards that include the MAA James Crawford Prize, Penn’s Lindback Award, and the S. Reid Warren Award in Engineering at Penn. Ghrist is the author, designer, and animator of popular YouTube video texts (featuring the Calculus BLUE Project), as well as an online course on Coursera, featured in the New York Times, BoingBoing, and Gizmodo. Please note that this virtual event, including attendees’ Zoom video, audio and screen name, and questions or chats, will be recorded. All or portions of the event recording may be shared through Brown University’s digital channels. Individuals who do not want their identities to be captured are solely responsible for turning off their camera, muting their microphone, and/or adjusting their screen name accordingly. By attending this event, you consent to your name, voice, and/or image being recorded and to Brown University reproducing, distributing, and otherwise displaying the recording, within its sole discretion. Data Wednesdays The Data Science Initiative joins the Center for Computational and Molecular Biology (CCMB) every Wednesday afternoon, 4 – 5 pm during the academic year to present lecturers in various mathematical and statistical fields worldwide, as well as local researchers on Brown’s campus. The aim is to provide students, staff, faculty, and visitors with an introduction to current research topics in the fields of data science, mathematics, statistics, and computer science. DSI & CCMB Data Wednesday (2 of 2) @ 4PM (Robert Ghrist, U Penn) Feb 24 12:00pm Eliminating bugs in real systems Fraser Brown Stanford University Please Note: Brown Login Required For This Talk Title: Eliminating bugs in real systems. Abstract: Software is everywhere, and almost everywhere, software is broken. Some bugs just crash your printer; others hand an identity thief your bank account number; still others let nation-states spy on dissidents and persecute minorities. This talk outlines my work preventing bugs using a blend of programming languages techniques and systems design. First, I’ll talk about securing massive, security-critical codebases without clean slate rewrites. This means rooting out hard-to-find bugs—as in Sys, which scales symbolic execution to find exploitable bugs in systems like the twenty-million line Chrome browser. It also means proving correctness of especially vulnerable pieces of code—as in VeRA, which automatically verifies part of the Firefox JavaScript engine. Finally, I’ll discuss work on stronger foundations for new systems—as in CirC, a recent project unifying compiler infrastructure for program verification, cryptographic proofs, optimization problems, and more. Bio: Fraser Brown is a PhD student at Stanford advised by Dawson Engler, occasional visiting student at UCSD with Deian Stefan, and NSF graduate research fellowship recipient. She works at the intersection of programming languages, systems, and security, and her research has been used by several companies. She holds an undergraduate degree in English from Stanford. Host: Malte Schwarzkopf Eliminating bugs in real systems Feb 24 11:00am - 12:30pm Qualitative Methods Series: An Introduction To Rapid Ethnography Zoom Join us for this 3-part series exploring qualitative methods around the topics of design thinking, rapid ethnography, and concept mapping. Wednesday, February 24, 2021 An Introduction To Rapid Ethnography: Its Applications & Utility In Public Health Research This presentation will provide an overview of ethnographic research, focusing on the role of rapid ethnography in public health research, and how it can be utilized in community-based research, public health evaluations, and during public health crises. Alexandra Collins, PhD Postdoctoral Research Associate, Brown University School of Public Health Dr. Alexandra Collins is a Postdoctoral Research Associate in the Department of Epidemiology and Brown University’s School of Public Health. She received her PhD in Health Sciences with a focus on medical social sciences and applied anthropology from Simon Fraser University in Vancouver, Canada. Her community-engaged research focuses broadly on social, structural, and built environmental drivers of overdose risk, drug use risk environments, and evaluations of harm reduction interventions. Qualitative Methods Series: An Introduction To Rapid Ethnography (Advance-CTR) Biology, Medicine, Public Health, Entrepreneurship, Psychology & Cognitive Sciences, Research, Training, Professional Development Feb 24 10:00am - 5:00pm DSI & CCMB Double Dose of Data Wednesday: 10-11am and 4-5pm Data Wednesday (1 of 2) @ 10 AM: (Pontus Skoglund, Crick Institute) PONTUS SKUGLAND Group Leader, Ancient Genomics Laboratory, Crick Institute TRACKING THE GENOMIC HISTORY OF DOGS AND HUMANS (Zoom Link) Data Wednesday (2 of 2) @ 4 PM: (Robert Ghrist, U Penn) ROBERT GHRIST Professor, Departments of Mathematics and Electrical Systems/Engineering, University of Pennsylvania OPINION DYNAMICS ON SHEAVES (Zoom Link) Please note that this virtual event, including attendees’ Zoom video, audio and screen name, and questions or chats, will be recorded. All or portions of the event recording may be shared through Brown University’s digital channels. Individuals who do not want their identities to be captured are solely responsible for turning off their camera, muting their microphone, and/or adjusting their screen name accordingly. By attending this event, you consent to your name, voice, and/or image being recorded and to Brown University reproducing, distributing, and otherwise displaying the recording, within its sole discretion. Data Wednesdays The Data Science Initiative joins the Center for Computational and Molecular Biology (CCMB) every Wednesday afternoon, 4 – 5 pm during the academic year to present lecturers in various mathematical and statistical fields worldwide, as well as local researchers on Brown’s campus. The aim is to provide students, staff, faculty, and visitors with an introduction to current research topics in the fields of data science, mathematics, statistics, and computer science. DSI & CCMB Double Dose of Data Wednesday: 10-11am and 4-5pm Feb 24 10:00am DSI & CCMB Data Wednesday (1 of 2) SPECIAL TIME @ 10AM! (Pontus Skoglund, Crick Institute) PONTUS SKUGLAND Group Leader, Ancient Genomics Laboratory, Crick Institute TRACKING THE GENOMIC HISTORY OF DOGS AND HUMANS Dogs were the first domestic animal, but little is known about their population history and to what extent it was linked to humans. I will discuss recent evidence from ancient dog genomes of limited gene flow from wolves since domestication, but substantial dog-to-wolf gene flow. By 11,000 years ago, at least five 5 major ancestry lineages had already diversified, demonstrating a deep genetic history of dogs during the Paleolithic. Co-analysis with human genomes reveals aspects of dog population history that mirror humans, including Levant-related ancestry in Africa and early agricultural Europe. Other aspects differ, including the impacts of steppe pastoralist expansions in West- and East Eurasia, and a complete turnover of Neolithic European dog ancestry. BIOGRAPHY Pontus Skoglund is the group leader of the Francis Crick Institute’s Ancient Genomics laboratory. Originally from Sweden, he obtained his Ph.D. in evolutionary genetics from Uppsala University in 2013 and thereafter did his postdoctoral research in David Reich’s laboratory at Harvard Medical School’s Department of Genetics. His past research has focused on propelling the field of ancient DNA into the genomic era, revealing population migrations as catalyzers for the transition from hunter-gatherer lifestyles to agriculture in Europe, Africa, and Southeast Asia. He has also studied gene flow between archaic-and-modern humans, early human evolution in Africa, the peopling of the Americas, and the origin of domestic dogs. Please note that this virtual event, including attendees’ Zoom video, audio and screen name, and questions or chats, will be recorded. All or portions of the event recording may be shared through Brown University’s digital channels. Individuals who do not want their identities to be captured are solely responsible for turning off their camera, muting their microphone, and/or adjusting their screen name accordingly. By attending this event, you consent to your name, voice, and/or image being recorded and to Brown University reproducing, distributing, and otherwise displaying the recording, within its sole discretion. Data Wednesdays The Data Science Initiative joins the Center for Computational and Molecular Biology (CCMB) every Wednesday afternoon, 4 – 5 pm during the academic year to present lecturers in various mathematical and statistical fields worldwide, as well as local researchers on Brown’s campus. The aim is to provide students, staff, faculty, and visitors with an introduction to current research topics in the fields of data science, mathematics, statistics, and computer science. DSI & CCMB Data Wednesday (1 of 2) SPECIAL TIME @ 10AM! (Pontus Skoglund, Crick Institute) Feb 22 12:00pm Dynamic Linear Algebra Jan van den Brand KTH Royal Institute of Technology Please Note: Brown Login Required For This Talk Title: Dynamic Linear Algebra Abstract: Dynamic linear algebra—algorithmic techniques for matrices that change over time—lies at the core of many applications, from continuous optimization, to efficient graph algorithms, to machine learning. Yet, until recently, the full power of dynamic linear algebra was not known and exploited in most applications. In this talk, I will describe several new advances in using these techniques and outline the limits of what can be done with them. I will overview progress on longstanding problems in dynamic shortest path data structures, regression algorithms, optimal transport and other problems, using dynamic linear algebra. Bio: Jan van den Brand obtained his bachelor’s and master’s degrees in both mathematics and computer science at the Goethe University Frankfurt. Currently, he is a PhD candidate at KTH Royal Institute of Technology, Stockholm, and recipient of the Google PhD Fellowship. His research is on efficient algorithms with focus on optimization and dynamic problems. Host: Philip Klein Dynamic Linear Algebra (Computer Science) Feb 19 1:30pm DSI’s Faculty for Faculty Series: Ritambhara Singh, Assistant Professor, CS; CCMB) PLEASE NOTE THAT THIS TALK IS FOR FACULTY ONLY. Register in advance for this meeting: https://brown.zoom.us/meeting/register/tJIocO-rrDgpHdzxRKvkqbRYLqK_i10i787E After registering, you will receive a confirmation email containing information about joining the meeting. RITAMBHARA SINGH Assistant Professor, Computer Science; Faculty, CCMB, Brown University TOWARDS DATA INTEGRATION IN GENOMICS USING MACHINE LEARNING Our current understanding of how genes are regulated is akin to solving a jigsaw puzzle. Many factors governing gene expression have been identified and researchers have collected a wide variety of related datasets. However, how these “parts” are pieced together to function as a whole remains unclear. In this talk, I will be discussing our research to develop and apply state-of-the-art machine learning methods to genomics datasets to attempt to put together the pieces from the data. I will discuss our work using deep learning architecture that captures the data’s underlying structure to integrate datasets and connect them to gene expression via the prediction task. We also interpret the prediction results and tie them back to contributing factors to develop potential hypotheses related to gene regulation. I will then move from bulk data to the single-cell data domain discussing methods to perform unsupervised integration of different types of single-cell experiments. This talk aims to highlight our research direction’s potential to reveal the important gene regulatory mechanisms in characterizing diseases from the collected data. BIOGRAPHY Ritambhara Singh is an Assistant Professor of the Computer Science department and a faculty member of the Center for Computational Molecular Biology at Brown University. Her research lab works at the intersection of machine learning and biology. Prior to joining Brown, Singh was a post-doctoral researcher in the Noble Lab at the University of Washington. She completed her Ph.D. in 2018 from the University of Virginia with Dr. Yanjun Qi as her advisor. Her research has involved developing machine learning algorithms for the analysis of biological data as well as applying deep learning models to novel biological applications. Please note that this virtual event, including attendees’ Zoom video, audio and screen name, and questions or chats, will be recorded. All or portions of the event recording may be shared through Brown University’s digital channels. Individuals who do not want their identities to be captured are solely responsible for turning off their camera, muting their microphone and/or adjusting their screen name accordingly. By attending this event, you consent to your name, voice, and/or image being recorded and to Brown University reproducing, distributing and otherwise displaying the recording, within its sole discretion. Fair February This is an opportunity for faculty to share current data science-related research activities with other faculty colleagues in an informal and interdisciplinary environment. More about this series on our website. This event is organized by Professor Meenakshi Narain, DSI Advisory Board Co-chair. DSI’s Faculty for Faculty Series: Ritambhara Singh, Assistant Professor, CS; CCMB) Feb 19 12:00pm Robust sequential decision-making in modern data-driven systems Thodoris Lykouris Microsoft Research NYC Please Note: Brown Login Required For This Talk Abstract: Modern online marketplaces require decisions to be made sequentially. These decisions do not only affect the system’s performance on the current customer but may also have long-lasting effects, giving rise to a sequence of novel challenges. In this talk, I will focus on one example of such challenges: the need of robustness to data corruption and other model misspecifications. Classical machine learning approaches rely on collecting a batch of data and fitting a model to it – this assumes that customers’ behavior is identically and independently distributed. However, in practice, the behavioral models assumed are often slightly misspecified, e.g., due to the strategic behavior of participating entities. Motivated by this practical concern, I will focus on two canonical revenue management settings (online advertising and feature-based dynamic pricing) and will introduce an algorithmic framework for achieving robustness to such model misspecifications. I will end the talk by discussing my broader research agenda on dealing with other practical and societal challenges that arise in sequential decision-making settings where data and decisions are inherently intertwined. Bio: Thodoris Lykouris is a postdoctoral researcher in the machine learning group of Microsoft Research NYC. His research focus is on data-driven sequential decision-making and spans across the disciplines of machine learning, operations research, theoretical computer science, and economics. He completed his Ph.D. in 2019 from Cornell University where he was advised by Éva Tardos. His dissertation was selected as a finalist in the Dantzig dissertation award competition. He was also a finalist in the INFORMS Nicholson and Applied Probability Society best student paper competitions. Thodoris is the recipient of a Google Ph.D. Fellowship and a Cornell University Fellowship. Host: Amy Greenwald Robust sequential decision-making in modern data-driven systems (Computer Science) Feb 19 12:00pm I2S2 Seminar D2R and EHRs: A success Story from an Academic Healthcare Setting I2S2 Seminar D2R and EHRs: A success Story from an Academic Healthcare Setting Featuring Dr. Fizza Gillani, PhD, CPEHR Picture of Dr. Fizza Gillani, Associate Professor of Medicine (Research), Warren Alpert Medical School, Brown University;Informatics Director for HIV/AIDS Program, Providence-Boston Center for AIDS Research, and the Ryan White Program; and Senior Research Scientist at Lifespan. HIV Care Continuum requires a multidisciplinary approach to achieve clinical outcomes that help control HIV disease progression. To track these outcomes, we need a robust informatics system with a clearly defined Data to Research and Reporting (D2R) approach to make use of different Electronic Health Records (EHRs). The Ryan White-funded Miriam Hospital Immunology Center (MIC) is part of an academic medical system with more than 15,000 employees, 4 hospitals, and a well-established Information System department. To support the MIC HIV program, a robust HIV-specific Immunology Center Database (ICDB) was created in 2003. The ICDB system is an example of how carefully planned data systems built around existing health IT infrastructure provide evidence of best practices, measure performance as feedback for healthcare systems, and advance us closer to realizing the vision of a learning health system. ICDB in its current format is centered on the system-wide electronic health record and technology platforms, supporting reporting and research requirements determined by the federal Ryan White program, different funding mechanisms, and local governments. This presentation will demonstrate how carefully integrated information systems can achieve the goals of tracking progress of healthcare outcomes, properly initiating quality initiatives, generating performance measures, supporting accurate government reporting, and expediting research initiatives. I2S2 Seminar D2R and EHRs: A success Story from an Academic Healthcare Setting (Center for Biomedical Informatics (BCBI)) Biology, Medicine, Public Health, Psychology & Cognitive Sciences, Research Feb 17 4:00pm DSI & CCMB Data Wednesday: Kelley Harris, University of Washington KELLEY HARRIS Assistant Professor, Department of Genome Sciences, University of Washington-Seattle A WILD-DERIVED MUTATOR ALLELE DRIVES MUTATION SPECTRUM DIFFERENCES AMONG COMMON LABORATORY MOUSE STRAINS Although eukaryotic genomes are safeguarded by hundreds of DNA replication and repair genes, it has proven difficult to study the functional consequences of variation within the sequences of these genes. Some large-effect DNA repair gene variants are known to cause heritable cancer syndromes and accelerate somatic mutagenesis, but it is not known whether such variants might cause germline mutation rates to vary within populations. We performed a QTL scan for germline mutator alleles in a uniquely powerful vertebrate system: a panel of 98 recombinant mouse strains that have each been inbred in captivity for up to 45 years, accumulating many generations’ worth of de novo mutations on known genetic backgrounds. The scan identified a locus that strongly affects the rate of C>A germline mutation accumulation, specifically in the sequence contexts CA>AA and CT>TT. We identify candidate causal variation in the gene Mutyh, which causes a human cancer syndrome associated with a similar mutational signature. This Mutyh variation also segregates in wild populations of Mus musculus domesticus, where it may be shaping the accumulation of natural genetic variation. BIOGRAPHY Kelley Harris is an Assistant Professor in the Department of Genome Sciences at the University of Washington in Seattle. She uses population genetic theory and high-throughput biological sequence analysis to study recent evolutionary history in humans and other species. One of her primary research interests is the evolution of mutagenesis; she wants to understand the forces that control DNA replication fidelity, the mutational breakdown of established traits, and the ultimate origin of new traits. Her lab will work to decipher how variations are genetically and environmentally determined and what evolutionary pressures (such as cancer, congenital disease, or life history) might be driving mutagenesis to change. She is also broadly interested in the impact of demography, inbreeding, and hybridization on the dynamics of natural selection, particularly in the wake of gene flow between humans, Neanderthals, and other extinct hominids. Harris has developed a variety of computational methods for inferring population bottlenecks, divergence times, and admixture events at high resolution, and has written about the impact of Neanderthal interbreeding on the fitness of archaic and modern humans. Her group will continue developing new statistical models that refine our understanding of how genomes and populations evolve, using methods derived from coalescent theory to visualize and extract the information contained in huge databases of whole genomes. She accepts graduate students through UW’s Genome Sciences Ph.D. program and is looking for motivated postdoctoral fellowship candidates with experience in bioinformatics and/or population genetics. Please note that this virtual event, including attendees’ Zoom video, audio and screen name, and questions or chats, will be recorded. All or portions of the event recording may be shared through Brown University’s digital channels. Individuals who do not want their identities to be captured are solely responsible for turning off their camera, muting their microphone, and/or adjusting their screen name accordingly. By attending this event, you consent to your name, voice, and/or image being recorded and to Brown University reproducing, distributing, and otherwise displaying the recording, within its sole discretion. Data Wednesdays The Data Science Initiative joins the Center for Computational and Molecular Biology (CCMB) every Wednesday afternoon, 4 – 5 pm during the academic year to present lecturers in various mathematical and statistical fields worldwide, as well as local researchers on Brown’s campus. The aim is to provide students, staff, faculty, and visitors with an introduction to current research topics in the fields of data science, mathematics, statistics, and computer science. DSI & CCMB Data Wednesday: Kelley Harris, University of Washington Feb 17 1:00pm - 2:00pm CDH Seminar Series presents “An adaptive messaging intervention to increase physical activity” with Elad Yom-Tov, PhD Please join us on Wednesday, February 17th for a seminar series presentation by Elad Yom-Tov, PhD: “An adaptive messaging intervention to increase physical activity.” Despite the clear benefit of regular physical activity, most patients with diabetes type 2 are sedentary. Smartphones and wearable devices have become ubiquitous in modern societies, bringing new opportunities for novel interventions through continuous monitoring of patients and timely communication with them. However, efforts to encourage activity of these patients using smartphones have focused on predetermined messages or messages tailored by experts, limiting their effectiveness. CDH Seminar Series presents “An adaptive messaging intervention to increase physical activity” with Elad Yom-Tov, PhD (Center for Digital Health) Biology, Medicine, Public Health, Graduate School, Postgraduate Education, Mathematics, Technology, Engineering, Psychology & Cognitive Sciences, Research, Social Sciences Feb 17 11:00am - 12:30pm Qualitative Methods Series: The Power of Designing with Patients Zoom Join us for this 3-part series exploring qualitative methods around the topics of design thinking, rapid ethnography, and concept mapping. Wednesday, February 17, 2021 The Power of Designing with Patients Aaron J. Horowitz Co-Founder & CEO Sproutel Aaron is a maker; from sculptures to business, he is fascinated with the process of taking an idea from concept to reality. His experience growing up with human growth hormone deficiency inspired a desire to bring empathy, design, and a patient-centered mindset to healthcare. He is the co-founder and CEO of Sproutel, a research and development workshop focused on creating play-based healthcare innovations. Sproutel is best known for their work collaborating with Aflac to create My Special Aflac Duck, a robotic companion for children with cancer! Qualitative Methods Series: The Power of Designing with Patients (Advance-CTR) Biology, Medicine, Public Health, Entrepreneurship, Psychology & Cognitive Sciences, Research, Training, Professional Development Feb 12 12:00pm Fairness in Algorithmic Services Allison Koenecke Stanford University Algorithmically guided decisions are becoming increasingly prevalent and, if left unchecked, can amplify pre-existing societal biases. In this talk, I use modern computational tools to examine the equity of decision-making in two complex systems: automated speech recognition and online advertising. In the former, I demonstrate large racial disparities in the performance of popular commercial speech-to-text systems developed by Amazon, Apple, Google, IBM, and Microsoft, a pattern likely stemming from a lack of diversity in the data used to train the systems. These results point to hurdles faced by African Americans in using widespread tools driven by speech recognition technology. In the second part of the talk, I propose a methodological framework for online advertisers to determine a demographically equitable allocation of individuals being shown ads for SNAP (food stamp) benefits. In particular, I discuss how to formulate fair decisions considering budget-constrained trade-offs between English-speaking and Spanish-speaking SNAP applicants. Both projects exemplify processes to ameliorate demographic-based disparate impact arising from decisions made by online platforms. Allison Koenecke is a PhD candidate at Stanford’s Institute for Computational & Mathematical Engineering. Her research interests lie broadly at the intersection of economics and computer science, and her projects focus on algorithmic fairness in online applications and causal inference in public health. She previously specialized in antitrust at NERA Economic Consulting after graduating from MIT with a Bachelor’s in Mathematics with Computer Science. Host: Professor Ellie Pavlick Fairness in Algorithmic Services (Computer Science) Feb 12 12:00pm Fairness in Algorithmic Services Please use Brown email account to join Allison Koenecke Stanford University Algorithmically guided decisions are becoming increasingly prevalent and, if left unchecked, can amplify pre-existing societal biases. In this talk, I use modern computational tools to examine the equity of decision-making in two complex systems: automated speech recognition and online advertising. In the former, I demonstrate large racial disparities in the performance of popular commercial speech-to-text systems developed by Amazon, Apple, Google, IBM, and Microsoft, a pattern likely stemming from a lack of diversity in the data used to train the systems. These results point to hurdles faced by African Americans in using widespread tools driven by speech recognition technology. In the second part of the talk, I propose a methodological framework for online advertisers to determine a demographically equitable allocation of individuals being shown ads for SNAP (food stamp) benefits. In particular, I discuss how to formulate fair decisions considering budget-constrained trade-offs between English-speaking and Spanish-speaking SNAP applicants. Both projects exemplify processes to ameliorate demographic-based disparate impact arising from decisions made by online platforms. Allison Koenecke is a PhD candidate at Stanford’s Institute for Computational & Mathematical Engineering. Her research interests lie broadly at the intersection of economics and computer science, and her projects focus on algorithmic fairness in online applications and causal inference in public health. She previously specialized in antitrust at NERA Economic Consulting after graduating from MIT with a Bachelor’s in Mathematics with Computer Science. Host: Professor Ellie Pavlick Fairness in Algorithmic Services Feb 12 12:00pm I2S2 Seminar: Highlights from the Advance-CTR Informatics Core: REDCap and N3C Highlights from the Advance-CTR Informatics Core: REDCap and N3C Dr. Karen Crowley, Manager of Health Data Science, Advance-CTR Informatics Core and the Brown Center for Biomedical Informatics, will provide an overview of the services and resources available through the Informatics Core with a special focus on our unique implementation of REDCap, a secure web application for building and managing online surveys and databases. She will also highlight N3C, the National COVID Cohort Collaborative, how Advance-CTR is participating and the plan to support researchers who wish to access this unique dataset. Dr. Karen M. Crowley is Manager of Health Data Science for the Brown Center for Biomedical Informatics (BCBI) and the Advance-CTR Biomedical Informatics, Bioinformatics, and Cyberinfrastructure Enhancement (BIBCE) Core. Dr. Crowley holds a Master of Science degree in Organizational Behavior and is a formally trained biomedical informatician with a PhD from the University of Utah. With experience in both industry and academia, Dr. Crowley has a special interest in applying her expertise in healthcare data, computing, and technology as well as organization dynamics and processes in support of the Learning Health System. The Informatics and Implementation Science Learning Series (I2S2) covers the breadth of topics in effectively using data and technology to advance biomedical discovery and healthcare delivery. Each learning activity (seminar, journal club, workshop, or tutorial) features methods, applications, or resources that are aligned with components of a learning health system. This series is a joint initiative between the Brown Center for Biomedical Informatics, Brown Department of Psychiatry and Human Behavior Implementation Science Core, Rhode Island Quality Institute, and Advance Clinical and Translational Research (Advance-CTR). I2S2 Seminar: Highlights from the Advance-CTR Informatics Core: REDCap and N3C (Center for Biomedical Informatics (BCBI)) Biology, Medicine, Public Health, Mathematics, Technology, Engineering, Psychology & Cognitive Sciences, Research Feb 12 11:30am - 1:00pm DSI’s Fair February: Data Science for Social Good (Week Three: Friday Speakers) Fair February: Data Science for Social Good Fair February is a three-week symposium organized by Brown’s Data Science Initiative. Each week of this symposium concentrates on a theme. The purpose of this symposium is to let young researchers of various disciplines interested in any of our themes, meet each other, and know about each other’s work and research. WEEK THREE: COMPUTATION AND DEMOCRACY SESSION ONE SPEAKERS DIVERSITY AND INEQUALITY IN SOCIAL NETWORKS: FROM RECOMMENDATION TO INFORMATION DIFFUSION Ana-Andreea Stoica, Ph.D. Candidate, Columbia University This talk is scheduled for 11:35am. THE EFFECT OF HOMOPHILY ON DISPARATE VISIBILITY OF MINORITIES IN PEOPLE RECOMMENDER SYSTEMS Francesco Fabbri, Ph.D. Candidate, Web Science and Social Computing Group, Pompeu Fabra University-Barcelona This talk is scheduled for 12:10pm. SESSION TWO SPEAKERS FAIR ALGORITHMS FOR CLUSTERING Suman Bera, Postdoctoral Research Associate, University of California-Santa Cruz This talk is scheduled for 2:05pm. AUDITING WIKIPEDIA’S HYPERLINKS NETWORK ON POLARIZING TOPICS Cristina Menghini, Ph.D. Candidate, Sapienza University This talk is scheduled for 2:30pm. REDUCING STRUCTURAL BIAS IN NETWORKS BY LINK INSERTION Shahrzad Haddadan, Postdoctoral Research Associate, Data Science Initiative and Department of Computer Science, Brown University This talk is scheduled for 3:00pm. For more information, please contact Shahrzad Haddadan. To see more of Fair February’s events and speakers, visit our main event page. This series is organized by Shahrzad Haddadan, Marie Schenk, and Cristina Menghini. Sponsored by the Data Science Initiative. See the full schedule here. DSI’s Fair February: Data Science for Social Good (Week Three: Friday Speakers) Feb 11 3:00pm - 4:00pm Carney Methods Meetup: Resources for Learning Data Science Zoom Join the Carney Institute for Brain Science in conjunction with Love Data Week for a Carney Methods Meetup, an informal gathering focused on methods for brain science, on Thursday, February 11, at 3 p.m. This event will be moderated by Jason Ritt, Carney’s scientific director of quantitative neuroscience, and feature Samuel Watson, director of graduate studies for the Data Science Initiative. Please note, this workshop requires you to be logged into Zoom through your Brown account. Notes from previous Meetups are available online. Carney Methods Meetup: Resources for Learning Data Science (Carney Institute for Brain Science) Biology, Medicine, Public Health, CCBS, Psychology & Cognitive Sciences, Research, Teaching & Learning Feb 11 12:00pm Noise / Data / Gender Love Data Week at BAI brings together Marie Thompson, author of Beyond Unwanted Sound: Noise, Affect and Aesthetic Moralism, and artist Jules Gimbrone, who will have an exhibition at BAI’s Cohen Gallery in fall 2021, to discuss noise as a product of data mediation, the sociality of listening, and the impossibility of quantifying gender, among many other intersections in their work. Moderated by Kate Kraczon, Acting Director and Curator, David Winton Bell Gallery, Brown University. Jules Gimbrone is a visual and sonic artist based in New York, NY. Their work has appeared internationally in a variety of venues including the Walker Art Center, Minneapolis, MN; Sculpture Center, MoMA PS1, Rubin Museum of Art, Socrates Sculpture Park, and Judson Church, New York; and Los Angeles Contemporary Exhibitions, Human Resources LA, and LAXART, Los Angeles. Marie Thompson is a researcher living in Nottingham, UK. She is a Lecturer in Music at The Open University. Marie is the author of Beyond Unwanted Sound: Noise, Affect and Aesthetic Moralism (Bloomsbury, 2017) and is the Principal Investigator of the Arts and Humanities Research Council project, Tinnitus, Auditory Knowledge and the Arts. Noise / Data / Gender (Brown Arts Initiative (BAI)) Feb 11 12:00pm Translational Research Seminar Series Zoom The Advance-CTR Translational Research Seminar Series showcases clinical and translational research from across Rhode Island. Presentations, followed by feedback, allow presenters the opportunity to refine and strengthen their research. Seminars are held virtually on the second Thursday of each month. February Hector Lopez-Vergara, PhD: “Towards Testing the Cross-Cultural Validity of Dual-Process Models of Alcohol Use” Vanessa Harwood, PhD, and Alisa Baron, PhD: “Neurobiological Markers of Language and Literacy in Bilingual Children” Details: February 11, 2021 at 12 p.m. ET. Translational Research Seminar Series (Advance-CTR) Biology, Medicine, Public Health, Education, Teaching, Instruction, Entrepreneurship, Mathematics, Technology, Engineering, Psychology & Cognitive Sciences, Research, Teaching & Learning, Training, Professional Development Feb 11 10:00am - 11:00am Everything You Wanted to Know about FERPA but were Afraid to Ask Please join the Office of the General Counsel (OGC) for a discussion on the Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act (FERPA). The discussion is open to anyone and is geared to those who have limited knowledge of FERPA Everything You Wanted to Know about FERPA but were Afraid to Ask (Office of the Vice President for Research) Graduate School, Postgraduate Education, OVPR, Research, Training, Professional Development Feb 10 4:00pm - 5:30pm DSI’s Fair February: Computation and Democracy (Keynote: Jennifer Forestal, Loyola University-Chicago) Fair February: Data Science for Social Good Fair February is a three-week symposium organized by Brown’s Data Science Initiative. Each week of this symposium concentrates on a theme. The purpose of this symposium is to let young researchers of various disciplines interested in any of our themes, meet each other, and know about each other’s work and research. WEEK THREE: COMPUTATION AND DEMOCRACY KEYNOTE SPEAKER: Jennifer Forestal, Assistant Professor of Political Science, Loyola University-Chicago DESIGNING FOR DEMOCRACY: HOW TO BUILD COMMUNITY IN DIGITAL ENVIRONMENTS From popping filter bubbles to dampening the spread of disinformation and extremism, scholars and practitioners alike have expended significant energy ‘fixing’ digital technologies—and the algorithms powering them—for democratic politics. But what, exactly, does democracy demand? In this talk, I outline the three “democratic affordances” required of digital technologies: they must 1) facilitate users’ recognitionthat, as members of communities, they share things with others, 2) generate users’ attachmentsto those communities and their fellow members, and 3) encourage experimentalismby empowering users to exert control over their environments. Drawing on resources from the history of political thought, architecture and urban design, social psychology, and media studies, I use the examples of platforms like Facebook, Twitter, and Reddit, as well as innovations like Gobo, to show how piecemeal solutions to the challenges posed by digital technologies are insufficient to meet the needs of democratic politics. Instead, I argue for a more holistic approach to building democratic spaces in these new digital environments. BIOGRAPHY Jennifer Forestal is the Helen Houlahan Rigali Assistant Professor of Political Science at Loyola University Chicago. She is a political theorist whose work focuses on practical democratic challenges, such as those introduced by digital technologies. She is the author of the forthcoming book Designing for Democracy: How to Build Community in Digital Environments(Oxford University Press) and co-editor of The Wives of Western Philosophy: Gender Politics in Intellectual Labor(Routledge, 2021). Her articles have appeared in peer-reviewed journals such as American Political Science Review, Journal of Politics, Political Studies, and Hypatia: A Journal of Feminist Philosophy. YOUNG RESEARCH SPEAKER: Aarushi Kalra, Ph.D. Candidate, Department of Economics, Brown University HATE SPEECH ON SOCIAL MEDIA IN INDIA In this project, we bring a novel dataset from ShareChat (a hugely popular content generation app in India) to launch an inquiry into the factors that lead to the production and propagation of online extreme speech, on platforms like WhatsApp. ShareChat, with more than 160 million monthly active users, is an Indian content generation platform where users can create, share, and engage with content in 14 non-English Indian regional languages. An important feature of the app is that a user’s account is linked to her WhatsApp account, so that content from ShareChat can be shared directly on WhatsApp. We wish to study the production and propagation of extreme speech against marginalized groups (like women and the Indian Muslim community) on WhatsApp, using ShareChat data. Given the immense popularity of WhatsApp and ShareChat, policy interventions that fight hate speech would help members of marginalized communities to access digital spaces where public opinion is formed. BIOGRAPHY Aarushi Kalra is a Ph.D. student in Economics at Brown. Her research interests include Public and Development Economics. Her current research deals with the causes and effects of communal tensions in India. Prior to Brown, she completed her MA in Economics at the Delhi School of Economics, worked at the Center for Development Economics, and taught Quantitative Methods at the Institute of Economic growth, all in New Delhi. For more information, please contact Shahrzad Haddadan. To see more of Fair February’s events and speakers, visit our main event page. This series is organized by Shahrzad Haddadan, Marie Schenk, and Cristina Menghini. Sponsored by the Data Science Initiative. See the full schedule here. DSI’s Fair February: Computation and Democracy (Keynote: Jennifer Forestal, Loyola University-Chicago) Feb 10 1:00pm - 2:00pm Center for Digital Health Seminar Series Presents “Clinical Data Science: The Here and Now to Infinity and Beyond” Join us on Wednesday, February 10th for a seminar series presentation, “Clinical Data Science: The Here and Now to Infinity and Beyond,” with Kristina Steinberg, MD, MMCi. From quality measures to predictive modeling, data science methods and techniques are helping to transform the US healthcare system. As a physician data scientist, Dr. Steinberg relies on her clinical knowledge when working with big data to unearth the stories and trends that lead to improved outcomes. In this presentation, Dr Steinberg will review topics and trends in data science that are currently being used with big healthcare data and explore the emerging topics and trends. Dr. Steinberg is a physician data scientist solving complex problems in the healthcare industry. Dr. Steinberg trained at top tier medical institutions, including Duke University, Yale University, & University of Texas Southwestern. Center for Digital Health Seminar Series Presents “Clinical Data Science: The Here and Now to Infinity and Beyond” (Center for Digital Health) Feb 9 12:00pm - 1:00pm Best practices for international research collaborations Collaborating across the globe is more critical to scientific progress than ever, and also easier than ever thanks to online tools. Join Torrey Truszkowski and Juliane Blyth from the Office of Research Integrity for a discussion about how to protect your data and ideas when shared internationally. We will also discuss how research data can range from non-restricted to highly restricted within the context of U.S. export control regulation, and what to look out for to ensure you and your collaborators do not run afoul of University policies and federal regulations. Best practices for international research collaborations (Office of the Vice President for Research) Biology, Medicine, Public Health, Education, Teaching, Instruction, Graduate School, Postgraduate Education, Humanities, IRB, Libraries, ORI, OVPR, Research, Training, Professional Development Feb 9 11:00am - 12:00pm Extending Evidence to a Target Population Researchers are often interested in extending (generalizing or transporting) findings to a target population of substantive interest. Examples include estimating how effective a treatment is or how well a prediction model performs when applied to a different population then was used for original treatment effect estimation or prediction model development. In this talk, I give a high level overview of evidence extension and provide an example of estimating how a lung cancer risk prediction model performs when deployed in a more racially diverse population than was used to develop the model. Extending Evidence to a Target Population (Office of the Vice President for Research) Feb 9 9:00am - 10:00am Data Sharing in the Age of Covid-19, Racial Disparities, and More Are you curious about how Data Use Agreements (DUAs) are being used to facilitate research on today’s hot topics? Jen Welch will discuss DUAs Brown has signed for data related to research on topics such as COVID-19, the opioid crisis, and racial disparities. Data Sharing in the Age of Covid-19, Racial Disparities, and More (Office of the Vice President for Research) Biology, Medicine, Public Health, Education, Teaching, Instruction, IRB, ORI, OVPR, Research Feb 5 11:30am - 3:30pm DSI’s Fair February: Data Science for Social Good (Week Two: Friday Speakers) Fair February: Data Science for Social Good Fair February is a three-week symposium organized by Brown’s Data Science Initiative. Each week of this symposium concentrates on a theme. The purpose of this symposium is to let young researchers of various disciplines interested in any of our themes, meet each other, and know about each other’s work and research. WEEK TWO: COMPUTATION AND WELFARE/POLICY-MAKING SESSION ONE SPEAKERS TOWARDS A SYSTEMATIC UNDERSTANDING OF EXEMPT AND NON-EXEMPT ALGORITHMIC BIASES Sanghamitra Dutta, Ph.D. Candidate, Department Electrical and Computer Engineering, Carnegie Mellon University This talk is scheduled for 11:30am. AN AXIOMATIC THEORY OF PROVABLY-FAIR WELFARE-CENTRIC MACHINE LEARNING Cyrus Cousins, Ph.D. Candidate, Department of Computer Science, Brown University This talk is scheduled for 12:10pm. SESSION TWO SPEAKERS (MACHINE) LEARNING WHAT POLICYMAKERS VALUE Samsun Knight, Ph.D. Candidate, Department of Economics, Brown University This talk is scheduled for 2:05pm. LET’S TALK CONNECTING ST&I STUDIES WITH DATA SCIENCE Mayra Morales Tirado, Postdoctoral Research Associate, University of Manchester (UK) This talk is scheduled for 2:30pm. FAIR COMPARISONS WITH OPTIMAL TRANSPORT Kweku Kwegyir-Aggrey, Postdoctoral Research Associate, Department of Computer Science, Brown University This talk is scheduled for 3:00pm. For more information, please contact Shahrzad Haddadan. To see more of Fair February’s events and speakers, visit our main event page. This series is organized by Shahrzad Haddadan, Marie Schenk, and Cristina Menghini. Sponsored by the Data Science Initiative. See the full schedule here. DSI’s Fair February: Data Science for Social Good (Week Two: Friday Speakers) Feb 3 4:00pm - 5:30pm DSI’s Fair February: Computation and Welfare/Policy-making (Keynote: Daniel Bjorkegren, Economics) Fair February: Data Science for Social Good Fair February is a three-week symposium organized by Brown’s Data Science Initiative. Each week of this symposium concentrates on a theme. The purpose of this symposium is to let young researchers of various disciplines interested in any of our themes, to meet each other, and know about each other’s work and research. WEEK TWO: COMPUTATION AND WELFARE/POLICY-MAKING KEYNOTE SPEAKER: Daniel Björkegren, Assistant Professor, Department of Economics, Brown University MANIPULATION-PROOF MACHINE LEARNING An increasing number of decisions are guided by machine learning algorithms. In many settings, from consumer credit to criminal justice, those decisions are made by applying an estimator to data on an individual’s observed behavior. But when consequential decisions are encoded in rules, individuals may strategically alter their behavior to achieve desired outcomes. This paper develops a new class of estimators that is stable under manipulation, even when the decision rule is fully transparent. We explicitly model the costs of manipulating different behaviors and identify decision rules that are stable in equilibrium. Through a large field experiment in Kenya, we show that decision rules estimated with our strategy-robust method outperform those based on standard supervised learning approaches. BIOGRAPHY Daniel Björkegren is an Assistant Professor of Economics at Brown University. He explores the opportunities generated by new technologies in the developing world and is working on methods to manage dominant networks and to make machine learning more humane. He holds a Ph.D. in Economics from Harvard University and a Bachelor’s degree in Physics from the University of Washington. YOUNG RESEARCH SPEAKER: Jessica Dai, Undergraduate Student, Department of Computer Science, Brown University FAIR MACHINE LEARNING UNDER PARTIAL COMPLIANCE Typically, fair machine learning research focuses on a single decision-maker and assumes that the underlying population is stationary. However, many of the critical domains motivating this work are characterized by competitive marketplaces with many decision-makers. Realistically, we might expect only a subset of them to adopt any non-compulsory fairness-conscious policy, a situation that political philosophers call partial compliance. This possibility raises important questions: how does the strategic behavior of decision subjects in partial compliance settings affect the allocation outcomes? If k% of employers were to voluntarily adopt a fairness-promoting intervention, should we expect k% progress (in aggregate) towards the benefits of universal adoption, or will the dynamics of partial compliance wash out the hoped-for benefits? How might adopting a global (versus local) perspective impact the conclusions of an auditor? In this paper, we propose a simple model of an employment market, leveraging simulation as a tool to explore the impact of both interaction effects and incentive effects on outcomes and auditing metrics. Our key findings are that at equilibrium: (1) partial compliance (k% of employers) can result in far less than proportional (k%) progress towards the full compliance outcomes; (2) the gap is more severe when fair employers match global (vs local) statistics; (3) choices of local vs global statistics can paint dramatically different pictures of the performance vis-a-vis fairness desiderata of compliant versus non-compliant employers, and (4) partial compliance to local parity measures can induce extreme segregation. BIOGRAPHY Jessica Dai is a senior at Brown University studying computer science. She is broadly interested in (fair) machine learning and its limitations, especially when applied to the real world. She was recently a visiting student at Carnegie Mellon University advised by Professor Zachary Lipton and has also worked closely with Professor Sarah M. Brown from the University of Rhode Island (previously a DSI postdoc at Brown). In addition to research, she has been involved in developing the first iterations of Brown Computer Science’s Socially Responsible Computing undergraduate program. For more information, please contact Shahrzad Haddadan. To see more of Fair February’s events and speakers, visit our main event page. This series is organized by Shahrzad Haddadan, Marie Schenk, and Cristina Menghini. Sponsored by the Data Science Initiative. See the full schedule here. DSI’s Fair February: Computation and Welfare/Policy-making (Keynote: Daniel Bjorkegren, Economics) Feb 3 3:00pm - 4:30pm Advance-CTR Introduction to REDCap Zoom Register now for our “Introduction to REDCap” virtual workshop with Sarah B. Andrea, PhD, MPH. Geared towards new or novice REDCap users, this class answers “What” REDCap is, “Why” you want to use it, and goes through the entire lifecycle of a REDCap project – from initial setup to data entry and finally exporting your data. The workshop will begin Wednesday February 3rd, 2020 at 3:00PM EST. Advance-CTR Introduction to REDCap (Advance-CTR) Biology, Medicine, Public Health, Education, Teaching, Instruction, Entrepreneurship, Research, Training, Professional Development Feb 3 1:00pm - 2:00pm Center for Digital Health Seminar Series presents “A Call to Action: Implementing Telehealth in Community Based Primary Care as a Response to COVID-19” Join us on Wednesday, February 3rd for a seminar series presentation, “A Call to Action: Implementing Telehealth in Community Based Primary Care as a Response to COVID-19,” with Care Transformation Collaborative Rhode Island (CTC-RI). The COVID-19 pandemic dramatically changed how consumers access care. CTC-RI launched the Primary Care Telehealth Needs Assessment in the Spring of 2020 to provide technical assistance to implement telehealth solutions to safely and effectively use telehealth to improve access to care and assist patients with management of chronic conditions.. This presentation will review the RFP, provide a market analysis of the needs of community based primary care practices, and solutions to aid community practices in the adoption of telehealth technologies. The Care Transformation Collaborative of Rhode Island/PCMH Kids is a multi-payer, patient centered medical home initiative promoting transformation in primary care in order to improve quality of care. This presentation will be given by Pano Yeracaris, MD MPH Chief Clinical Strategist, Sue Dettling, BS PCMH -CCE Telehealth Project Manager, & Susanne Campbell, RN MS PCMH-CCE Senior Project Director. Center for Digital Health Seminar Series presents “A Call to Action: Implementing Telehealth in Community Based Primary Care as a Response to COVID-19” (Center for Digital Health) Biology, Medicine, Public Health, Government, Public & International Affairs, Mathematics, Technology, Engineering, Psychology & Cognitive Sciences Jan 29 All Day DSI’s Fair February: Data Science for Social Good (Week One: Friday Speakers) Fair February: Data Science for Social Good Fair February is a three-week symposium organized by Brown’s Data Science Initiative. Each week of this symposium concentrates on a theme. The purpose of this symposium is to let young researchers of various disciplines interested in any of our themes, meet each other, and know about each other’s work and research. WEEK ONE: COMPUTATION AND HEALTH FOCUSED QUERY EXPANSION WITH ENTITY CORES FOR PATIENT-CENTRIC HEALTH SEARCH Erisa Terolli, Postdoctoral Research Associate, Max Plank Institute This talk is scheduled for 11:30am. TOPOLOGICAL AND GEOMETRIC METHODS FOR COVID-19 TRACKING Ignacio Segovia-Dominguez, Postdoctoral Research Associate and ConTex Fellow, University of Texas-Dallas This talk is scheduled for 12:10pm. For more information, please contact Shahrzad Haddadan. To see more of Fair February’s events and speakers, visit our main event page. This series is organized by Shahrzad Haddadan, Marie Schenk, and Cristina Menghini. Sponsored by the Data Science Initiative. See the full schedule here. DSI’s Fair February: Data Science for Social Good (Week One: Friday Speakers) Jan 27 4:00pm - 5:30pm DSI’s Fair February: Computation and Health (Keynote: Elizabeth Chen, BCBI) Fair February: Data Science for Social Good Fair February is a three-week symposium organized by Brown’s Data Science Initiative. Each week of this symposium concentrates on a theme. The purpose of this symposium is to let young researchers of various disciplines interested in any of our themes, to meet each other, and know about each other’s work and research. WEEK ONE: COMPUTATION AND HEALTH KEYNOTE SPEAKER: Elizabeth Chen, Interim Director, BCBI, Brown University Artificial Intelligence in Healthcare Over the last five decades, artificial intelligence (AI) in medicine and health care has evolved along with advancements in data, technology, and computation. AI offers the potential to achieve the “quintuple aim” of enhancing patient and provider experiences, reducing costs, improving population health, and addressing equity and inclusion. However, there are a range of challenges in transforming electronic health data into clinically-actionable knowledge and implementing evidence-based innovations into practice. This keynote will begin with a history of AI in medicine followed by an overview of challenges and opportunities presented in the National Academy of Medicine’s 2019 special publication on “AI in Healthcare: The Hope, The Hype, The Promise, The Peril.” The talk will end with a discussion of the role of AI in local and national initiatives focused on COVID-19. Biography Elizabeth Chen , Ph.D., FACMI, is Interim Director of the Brown Center for Biomedical Informatics (BCBI), Associate Professor of Medical Science, Associate Professor of Health Services, Policy & Practice, Director of the Advance-CTR Biomedical Informatics and Cyberinfrastructure Enhancement Core, and Faculty Scholar in the Hassenfeld Child Health Innovation Institute at Brown University. Within BCBI, Dr. Chen leads the Clinical Informatics Innovation and Implementation (CI 3 ) Laboratory that is focused on leveraging Electronic Health Record (EHR) technology and data to improve healthcare delivery and biomedical discovery. Her current research projects involve the use of data, technology, and computational approaches for improving mental health ( mental health informatics ) and child health ( pediatric informatics ). Dr. Chen received a BS in Computer Science from Tufts University and Ph.D. in Biomedical Informatics from Columbia University. Prior to joining Brown University in July 2015, she held appointments at Columbia University, Partners HealthCare/Brigham and Women’s Hospital/Harvard Medical School, and the University of Vermont. Dr. Chen is currently Chair of the Biomedical Informatics, Library and Data Sciences (BILDS) Review Committee for the National Library of Medicine (NLM) at the National Institutes of Health (NIH), Associate Editor for Methods of Information in Medicine, and Editorial Board Member for the Journal of Biomedical Informatics. YOUNG RESEARCH SPEAKER: Ruotao Zhang, Ph.D. Candidate, Biostatistics, Brown University Identifying Subgroups with Differential Prediction Accuracy When reporting a prediction model’s performance, it is a standard practice only to report a measure of overall performance, i.e., how well the model predicts for the whole population it is evaluated on. However, it is also important for many applications to consider whether there is some sub-population that the model is more (less) effective at predicting, driving up (lowering) the overall prediction accuracy. In this talk, we discuss a tree-based algorithm for identifying subgroups with differential prediction accuracy. The algorithm is general in that it can accommodate any measure of model performance and any prediction model. We apply it to both simulated data and the National Lung Screening Trial (NLST) data. For the latter, we use non-imaging covariates (e.g., gender, age, race, smoking status) as inputs and identify subgroups with differential prediction performance under a previously developed lung cancer prediction model PLCOm2012. Biography Ruotao is currently a Ph.D. candidate in the Department of Biostatistics under the supervision of Dr. Steingrimsson and Dr. Gatsonis. Before coming to the US, he worked as a data scientist at China Resources. Ruotao obtained an MSc in Applied Statistics from the University of Oxford, and a BSc in Mathematics from Imperial College London. His research interests mainly include statistical analysis of machine learning and deep learning models with applications to biomedical data. For more information, please contact Shahrzad Haddadan. To see more of Fair February’s events and speakers, visit our main event page. This series is organized by Shahrzad Haddadan, Marie Schenk, and Cristina Menghini. Sponsored by the Data Science Initiative. DSI’s Fair February: Computation and Health (Keynote: Elizabeth Chen, BCBI) Jan 27 All Day DSI’s Fair February FAIR FEBRUARY: DATA SCIENCE FOR SOCIAL GOOD January 27 – February 12, 2021 Fair February is a three-week series of talks presented by both keynote speakers and young researchers on topics at the intersection of social and computational sciences. Week 1: Computation and Health Wednesday - Keynote Speaker: Elizabeth Chen, Brown Center for Biomedical Informatics (BCBI) Friday - Young Researchers’ Talks Week 2: Computation and Social Welfare Wednesday - Keynote Speaker: Daniel Björkegren, Department of Economics, Brown University Friday - Young Researchers’ Talks Week 3: Computation and Democracy Wednesday - Keynote Speaker: Jennifer Forestal, Department of Political Science, Loyola University Chicago ﻿Friday - ﻿Young Researchers’ Talks Complete schedule here. If you are interested, or for more information, please contact Shahrzad Haddadan. Organized by Shahrzad Haddadan, Marie Schenk, and Crisitina Menghini. DSI’s Fair February Jan 25 4:00pm BrainExPo Seminar: Intracortical brain-computer interfaces Zoom Join the Carney Institute for its first Brain Science External Postdoc Seminar Series (BrainExPo), featuring Sergey Stavisky, postdoctoral research fellow in the Neurosurgery Department of Stanford University. Stavisky will discuss “Intracortical brain-computer interfaces: from fundamental science and engineering to restoring speech, reach and grasp.” Abstract: Brain-computer interfaces (BCIs) are poised to profoundly transform human neuroscience and health by treating devastating – and currently incurable – nervous system injuries and diseases with precise, circuit-level measurements and interventions. BCIs can potentially restore the ability to speak, move, remember, and more. However, going from proof-of-concept studies in animal models to repairing or replacing patients’ damaged abilities requires a platform for understanding human-specific neural functions and designing, testing, and refining therapies in people. My strategy for accomplishing this is to develop advanced intracortical BCIs to restore reach & grasp movement and speech for people with paralysis. Motor BCI clinical trials can help individuals with severe speech and motor impairment in the near-term, and in doing so, validate the safety of new human-use devices capable of reading from and writing to thousands of neurons. These clinical trials also provide direct access to human neural circuits for gaining a deeper neuroscientific understanding of how the brain generates movements, which I believe will ultimately lead to better BCI therapies. BrainExPo Seminar: Intracortical brain-computer interfaces (Carney Institute for Brain Science) Biology, Medicine, Public Health, Psychology & Cognitive Sciences, Research Jan 22 12:00pm I2S2 Seminar: Computational Modeling for D&I -An Overview with Examples from the Field I2S2 Seminar: Computational Modeling for D&I -An Overview with Examples from the Field featuring Bo Kim, PhD. Dissemination and implementation (D&I) research focuses on strategies that are used to distribute and promote the uptake of evidence-based practices in health care settings. These settings are often complex systems that have multiple dependencies, competitions, relationships, and other interactions between their components and/or with their environments. To study these complexities, D&I researchers have begun to turn to computational modeling. This seminar session will discuss the relevance of computational modeling to D&I, and share examples of how computational modeling is being used by D&I studies (e.g., to enhance stakeholder engagement, to guide resource allocation). This session will additionally highlight several issues for consideration when using computational modeling to examine D&I, and propose future directions in which computational modeling can contribute to D&I research. As data-driven approaches to enhancing care remain central to learning health systems, this session will aim to serve as a forum on how D&I can harness computational modeling to support those systems’ implementation and sustained delivery of evidence-based practices. Dr. Kim is a mental health services researcher at the VA Center for Healthcare Organization and Implementation Research (CHOIR), and an Assistant Professor of Psychiatry at Harvard Medical School (HMS). With an academic background in systems science and engineering, her research interests are in applying multidisciplinary methodologies toward studying the quality and implementation of mental health services. I 2 S 2 covers the breadth of topics in effectively using data and technology to advance biomedical discovery and healthcare delivery. Each learning activity (seminar, journal club, workshop, or tutorial) features methods, applications, or resources that are aligned with components of a learning health system. This series is a joint initiative between the Brown Center for Biomedical Informatics , Brown Department of Psychiatry and Human Behavior Implementation Science Core , Rhode Island Quality Institute , and Advance Clinical and Translational Research (Advance-CTR) . I2S2 Seminar: Computational Modeling for D&I -An Overview with Examples from the Field (Center for Biomedical Informatics (BCBI)) Biology, Medicine, Public Health, Mathematics, Technology, Engineering, Psychology & Cognitive Sciences Jan 21 12:00pm - 1:00pm Entrepreneurship Certificate Info Session Are you a student interested in pursuing a Certificate in Entrepreneurship? Drop in to learn more about the course requirements and curriculum for this exciting new opportunity offered by the Nelson Center for Entrepreneurship. Register here to attend. Entrepreneurship Certificate Info Session (Jonathan M. Nelson Center for Entrepreneurship) Advising, Mentorship, Education, Teaching, Instruction, Entrepreneurship, Teaching & Learning Jan 20 4:00pm DSI & CCMB Data Wednesday Seminar: Matthias Steinrüecken (U Chicago) MATTHIAS STEINRÜECKEN Assistant Professor, Department of Ecology and Evolution, University of Chicago GENETIC HITCHHIKING IN POPULATIONS WITH VARIABLE SIZE Natural selection of beneficial or deleterious alleles results in an increase or decrease, respectively, of its frequency within the population. Due to chromosomal linkage, these dynamics affect the genetic variation at linked neutral loci, commonly referred to as genetic hitchhiking. Changes in population size, however, can yield patterns in observed genetic data that mimic the effects of selection. Thus, accurately modeling these dynamics is crucial to understanding how selection and past population size changes impact these patterns. We employ the Wright-Fisher diffusion, a mathematical framework describing the dynamics of haplotype frequencies, to study the impact of selection on linked neutral variation. In general, explicit solutions to this diffusion when selection and recombination act simultaneously is not known. Thus, we present a method for numerically evaluating the dynamics of the Wright-Fisher diffusion that can explicitly account for arbitrary population size histories. A key step in the method is to express the moments of the associated transition density as solutions (ODEs) to ordinary differential equations. Numerically solving these ODEs relies on a novel accurate and numerically efficient technique to estimate higher-order moments from those of lower order. This technique can also be applied more generally to the problem of extrapolating Site-Frequency-Spectra (SFS). We demonstrate how this numerical framework can be used to elucidate the reduction and recovery of genetic diversity around a selected locus over time and exhibit distortions in the SFS of neutral variation linked to loci under selection in various demographic settings. The method can be readily extended to more general modes of selection and has the potential to be applied in likelihood frameworks to detect loci under selection and infer the strength of the selective pressure. BIOGRAPHY Matthias Steinruecken is an Assistant Professor in the Department of Ecology and Evolution and runs the Steinruecken Lab at the University of Chicago. With their research, they develop computational and statistical methods for population genomics analysis to investigate the forces underlying genetic variation. Specifically, some things worked on include inferring demographic histories, admixture disease mapping, and inferring selection strength from ancient DNA or time series genetic data. Data Wednesday Seminar Series Data Wednesday is the weekly seminar of the Data Science Initiative and the Center for Computational Molecular Biology. They are held most weeks during the academic year at 4 pm, in 164 Angell, 3rd floor (or via Zoom, while all talks are remote). Topics range from theoretical underpinnings of data science to domain-specific applications, including industry applications, and speakers include researchers from Brown as well as other institutions worldwide. If you would like to share your data-related work for Data Wednesday, please contact us. You can find all our events here or on our Events page. Subscribe to the DSI & CCMB Seminars Calendar and never miss a seminar announcement! View recent Data Wednesday talks here. DSI & CCMB Data Wednesday Seminar: Matthias Steinrüecken (U Chicago) Jan 20 1:00pm - 2:00pm CDH Seminar Series presents “Has COVID-19 Pushed us into a New Era of Health Informatics Systems?” with Jennifer Joe, MD Please join us on January 20th for a seminar series presentation by Jennifer Joe, MD, “Has COVID-19 Pushed us into a New Era of Health Informatics Systems?”. Dr. Joe will discuss COVID-19 and it’s impact on health informatics systems. She will highlight the innovation acceleration we’ve seen in digital health, telemedicine, and AI/ML during the pandemic; review effective and ineffective solutions; and provide an assessment of a post-COVID ecosystem. CDH Seminar Series presents “Has COVID-19 Pushed us into a New Era of Health Informatics Systems?” with Jennifer Joe, MD (Center for Digital Health) Athletics, Sports, Wellness, Biology, Medicine, Public Health, Mathematics, Technology, Engineering, Psychology & Cognitive Sciences, Research, Social Sciences Jan 14 3:00pm Information Session: DSI Undergraduate Certificate in Data Fluency The Data Science Initiative will be holding an information session for undergraduates interested in the DSI UG Certificate in Data Fluency. For more information and courses, please visit the University Bulletin. This virtual event will take place January 14, 2021 at 3:00 PM during the University’s Quiet Period. Information Session: DSI Undergraduate Certificate in Data Fluency Jan 14 12:00pm Translational Research Seminar Series Zoom The Advance-CTR Translational Research Seminar Series showcases clinical and translational research from across Rhode Island. Presentations, followed by feedback, allow presenters the opportunity to refine and strengthen their research. Seminars are held virtually on the second Thursday of each month. January Sean Monaghan, MD: “Deep RNA Sequencing and Critical Care: Early Steps to Commercialization” Jonghwan Lee, PhD: “Minimally-Invasive Retinal Prosthesis to Restore Vision in Blindness: Preclinical Study” Details: January 14, 2021 at 12 p.m. ET Translational Research Seminar Series (Advance-CTR) Advising, Mentorship, Biology, Medicine, Public Health, Education, Teaching, Instruction, Entrepreneurship, Mathematics, Technology, Engineering, Psychology & Cognitive Sciences, Research, Teaching & Learning, Training, Professional Development Jan 5 9:00am - 10:30am Advance-CTR Introduction to REDCap Zoom Register now for our “Introduction to REDCap” virtual workshop with Sarah B. Andrea, PhD, MPH. Geared towards new or novice REDCap users, this class answers “What” REDCap is, “Why” you want to use it, and goes through the entire lifecycle of a REDCap project – from initial setup to data entry and finally exporting your data. The workshop will begin Tuesday January 5th, 2020 at 9:00AM EST. Advance-CTR Introduction to REDCap (Advance-CTR) Biology, Medicine, Public Health, Education, Teaching, Instruction, Entrepreneurship, Research, Training, Professional Development Dec 18 12:00pm I2S2 Seminar: Rhode Island @ AMIA Year in Review I2S2 Seminar: Rhode Island @ AMIA Year in Review Featuring presentations by: Katherine Brown, MSN, RN, PhD Student in the Brown Center for Biomedical Informatics (BCBI) and Center for Computational Molecular Biology (CCMB) Ryan Buckland, ScM, Data Scientist, Lifespan Aaron Eisman, MD/PhD Student in BCBI and CCMB Jiaying Lai, PhD Student in BCBI and CCMB AMIA (American Medical Informatics Association) is the professional home for biomedical informatics and hosts multiple meetings a year, including the Informatics Summit (March), Clinical Informatics Conference (May), and Annual Symposium (November). An introduction to AMIA and its meetings will be provided followed by highlights from the AMIA 2020 Virtual Annual Symposium. Studies that were accepted as student papers for this conference will also be presented: (1) Mental Health Comorbidity Analysis in Pediatric Patients with Autism Spectrum Disorder Using Rhode Island Medical Claims Data, (2) Selection of Clinical Text Features for Classifying Suicide Attempts, (3) Extracting Angina Symptoms from Clinical Notes Using Pre-Trained Transformer Architectures, and (4) A Phylogenetic Approach to Analyze the Conservativeness of BRCA1 and BRCA2 Mutations. I 2 S 2 covers the breadth of topics in effectively using data and technology to advance biomedical discovery and healthcare delivery. Each learning activity (seminar, journal club, workshop, or tutorial) features methods, applications, or resources that are aligned with components of a learning health system. This series is a joint initiative between the Brown Center for Biomedical Informatics , Brown Department of Psychiatry and Human Behavior Implementation Science Core , Rhode Island Quality Institute , and Advance Clinical and Translational Research (Advance-CTR) . I2S2 Seminar: Rhode Island @ AMIA Year in Review (Center for Biomedical Informatics (BCBI)) Biology, Medicine, Public Health, Mathematics, Technology, Engineering, Research, Social Sciences Dec 16 4:00pm DSI & CCMB Data Wednesday: Sriram Sankararaman (UCLA) SRIRAM SANKARARAMAN Assistant Professor, Departments of Computer Science, Human Genetics, and Computational Medicine at UCLA HIGH-RESOLUTION POPULATION AND QUANTITATIVE GENETIC INFERENCE USING BIOBANK-SCALE STATISTICAL METHODS The quest to understand the interplay between evolution, genes, and traits has been revolutionized by the collection of rich phenotypic and genetic data across hundreds of thousands of individuals in diverse populations. This talk will describe how we bring together statistical and computational insights to design accurate and highly scalable algorithms for a suite of inference problems ranging from estimating fine-scale population structure to dissecting the genetic and novel insights into genetic loci under recent positive selection, how genetic effects are distributed across the genome, and the relative contributions of additive, dominance, and gene-environment interaction effects to trait variation. BIOGRAPHY Sriram Sankararaman is an Assistant Professor in the Departments of Computer Science, Human Genetics, and Computational Medicine at UCLA. His research interests lie at the interface of computer science, statistics, and biology. His lab develops machine learning algorithms to analyze genomic data and clinical data with the broad goal of understanding the interplay between evolution, genomes, and traits. He received his undergraduate degree in Computer Science from UC Berkeley and was a postdoctoral fellow at Harvard Medical School before joining UCLA. He is a recipient of a National Science Foundation Career Award, and of fellowships from Microsoft Research, the Sloan Foundation, the Okawa Foundation, and the Simons Institute. Data Wednesday Seminar Series Data Wednesday is the weekly seminar of the Data Science Initiative and the Center for Computational Molecular Biology. They are held most weeks during the academic year at 4 pm, in 164 Angell, 3rd floor (or via Zoom, while all talks are remote). Topics range from theoretical underpinnings of data science to domain-specific applications, including industry applications, and speakers include researchers from Brown as well as other institutions worldwide. If you would like to share your data-related work for Data Wednesday, please contact us. You can find all our events here or on our Events page. Subscribe to the DSI & CCMB Seminars Calendar and never miss a seminar announcement! DSI & CCMB Data Wednesday: Sriram Sankararaman (UCLA) Dec 15 1:00pm - 3:00pm CCBS Seminar: “Neural reinforcement: re-entering and refining neural dynamics leading to desirable outcomes” Zoom Join Carney’s Center for Computational Brain Science (CCBS) for a seminar on “Neural reinforcement: re-entering and refining neural dynamics leading to desirable outcomes.” This event will feature Vivek Athalye, Ph.D., postdoctoral researcher at Columbia University. Abstract: How do organisms learn to do again, on-demand, a behavior that led to a desirable outcome? Dopamine-dependent cortico-striatal plasticity provides a framework for learning behavior’s value, but it is less clear how it enables the brain to re-enter desired behaviors and refine them over time. Reinforcing behavior is achieved by re-entering and refining the neural patterns that produce it. We review studies using brain-machine interfaces which reveal that reinforcing cortical population activity requires cortico-basal ganglia circuits. Then, we propose a formal framework for how reinforcement in cortico-basal ganglia circuits acts on the neural dynamics of cortical populations. We propose two parallel mechanisms: i) fast reinforcement which selects the inputs that permit the re-entrance of the particular cortical population dynamics which naturally produced the desired behavior, and ii) slower reinforcement which leads to refinement of cortical population dynamics and more reliable production of neural trajectories driving skillful behavior on-demand. CCBS Seminar: “Neural reinforcement: re-entering and refining neural dynamics leading to desirable outcomes” (Carney Institute for Brain Science) CCBS, Mathematics, Technology, Engineering, Psychology & Cognitive Sciences, Research Dec 14 4:00pm - 5:30pm Expressions of Grief and Trauma on the Digital Streets of Chicago Desmond Upton Patton, PhD Associate Professor of Social Work; Associate Dean of Curriculum Innovation and Academic Affairs Columbia University School of Social Work Desmond Upton Patton’s research uses qualitative and computational data collection methods to examine the relationship between youth and gang violence and social media; how and why violence, grief, and identity are expressed on social media; and the real-world impact these expressions have on well-being for low-income youth of color. He studies the ways in which gang-involved youth conceptualize threats on social media, and the extent to which social media shapes and facilitates youth and gang violence. The Decoding Disparities Lecture Series The Decoding Disparities Lecture Series is sponsored by The Warren Alpert Medical School of Brown University and the Brown School of Public Health to examine health inequity and to outline steps toward a more equitable and just health care system. The series is supported by The Paul Levinger Professorship Pro Tem in the Economics of Health Care. This lecture was established in 1987 to honor the memory of Paul Levinger by a gift from his wife, Ruth N. Levinger, on behalf of the Levinger family. The Levingers’ daughter and son-in-law, Bette Levinger Cohen and John M. Cohen ’59, MD were instrumental in Mrs. Levinger’s decision to make this gift. Continuing Medical Education Credit This live activity is approved for AMA PRA Category 1 Credit™ Physicians: To be eligible to claim CME credit, please register for this event at cme-learning.brown.edu Expressions of Grief and Trauma on the Digital Streets of Chicago (Biology and Medicine (BioMed)) decodingdisparities Dec 10 4:00pm DSI & CCMB Data Wednesday (on THURSDAY!) Marta Gonzalez, UC Berkeley MARTA GONZALEZ Associate Professor of City and Regional Planning, UC Berkeley CASES OF STUDY IN COMPUTATIONAL URBAN SCIENCE Computational Urban Sciences refer to the use of information and communication technology and data in the context of cities and urban environments. First, I present methods to identify patterns of behavior in energy consumption and credit card transactions. Then I show how this is a more complex task when working with environmental data. I finalize with open questions and proposed research to study human-natural systems interactions. BIOGRAPHY Marta C. Gonzalez is an Associate Professor of City and Regional Planning and Civil and Env. Eng. at UC Berkeley, and a Physics Research faculty at the Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory (Berkeley Lab). With support from several companies, cities, and foundations from around the world, her research team develops computational models to analyze digital traces to estimate the demand for urban infrastructures in relation to energy and mobility. Examples are traffic gridlocks and the integration of electric vehicles in the power grid, policy of solar energy adoption, and habits in spending behavior. Her research has been published in leading journals, including Science, PNAS, Nature and Physical Review Letters. Data Wednesday Seminar Series Data Wednesday is the weekly seminar of the Data Science Initiative and the Center for Computational Molecular Biology. They are held most weeks during the academic year at 4 pm, in 164 Angell, 3rd floor (or via Zoom, while all talks are remote). Topics range from theoretical underpinnings of data science to domain-specific applications, including industry applications, and speakers include researchers from Brown as well as other institutions worldwide. If you would like to share your data-related work for Data Wednesday, please contact us. You can find all our events here or on our Events page. Subscribe to the DSI & CCMB Seminars Calendar and never miss a seminar announcement! DSI & CCMB Data Wednesday (on THURSDAY!) Marta Gonzalez, UC Berkeley Dec 10 12:00pm Translational Research Seminar Series Zoom Advance-CTR Pilot Project awardee, Dr. Tao, and Mentored Research Scholar, Dr. Samuels, share their research: Jun Tao, PhD: “Using Big Data to Determine Pre-exposure Prophylaxis Uptake and Persistence in Southern New England” Elizabeth Samuels, MD: “Identifying Opioid Overdose Hotspots for Prevention and Treatment Resource Deployment” Register now! Translational Research Seminar Series (Advance-CTR) Biology, Medicine, Public Health, Research, Training, Professional Development Dec 9 4:00pm DSI & CCMB Data Wednesday: Fernando Villanea, Ph.D. (CCMB) FERNANDO VILLANEA Brown University Center for Computational Molecular Biology ARCHAIC INTROGRESSION IN MODERN HUMANS: WHAT ARCHAIC GENOME FRAGMENTS CAN TELL US ABOUT PREHISTORY AND MODERN HEALTH As anatomically modern human populations began their latest expansion outside of Africa around 70,000 years ago, they encountered other archaic humans – Neanderthals and Denisovans – and their interactions left a lasting impact on modern human genomes. Here, I discuss two general applications of studying the archaic genetic data which survives in our genomes. The first is using this information to understand the past population dynamics of archaic species – in this case, to model the admixture event between Neanderthals and humans. The second application is looking at how modern humans have co-opted archaic gene variants to their advantage – in this case, observing the frequency of the Denisovan version of the gene MUC19 in modern populations. These two projects (and others) are the culmination of two years of research at the Huerta-Sanchez lab at Brown’s CCMB. BIOGRAPHY I am interested in understanding the genetic legacy of Neanderthals and other archaic human species. My work is focused on learning about the natural history of archaic species as observed through genetic data; including the ancient genomes sequenced from individuals long dead, as well as the small fragments of archaic DNA inherited in people living today. My favorite theoretical frame is the coalescent, my favorite method is computer simulation, and my favorite analysis tool is Approximate Bayesian Computation. Data Wednesday Seminar Series Data Wednesday is the weekly seminar of the Data Science Initiative and the Center for Computational Molecular Biology. They are held most weeks during the academic year at 4 pm, in 164 Angell, 3rd floor (or via Zoom, while all talks are remote). Topics range from theoretical underpinnings of data science to domain-specific applications, including industry applications, and speakers include researchers from Brown as well as other institutions worldwide. If you would like to share your data-related work for Data Wednesday, please contact us. You can find all our events here or on our Events page. Subscribe to the DSI & CCMB Seminars Calendar and never miss a seminar announcement! DSI & CCMB Data Wednesday: Fernando Villanea, Ph.D. (CCMB) Dec 9 12:00pm - 1:30pm Introduction to REDCap Zoom Workshop Description Geared toward new or novice REDCap users, “Introduction to REDCap” answers “what” REDCap is, “why” you want to use it, and goes through the entire life cycle of a REDCap project – from initial setup to data entry and finally exporting your data. About the Instructor Sarah B. Andrea, PhD, MPH, is a research scientist with the Lifespan Biostatistics Core at Rhode Island Hospital. In addition to providing design and statistical oversight and mentorship, she also conducts research investigating strategies to mitigate race-, class-, and gender-based inequities in health throughout the life course. Dr. Andrea has been working with REDCap for five years. Register now! Introduction to REDCap (Advance-CTR) Biology, Medicine, Public Health, Research, Training, Professional Development Dec 2 6:30pm A Virtual ICERM Public Event: Q&A with Kip Thorne, Nobel Prize-winning Theoretical Physicist Via Zoom (credentials will be sent to all registered participants the day before and day of event) Please join us for an exciting Q&A with Nobel prize-winning physicist Kip Thorne. Professor Thorne will briefly review the crucial role and history of computation in the detection of gravitational waves, and take your questions on all issues relating to computational physics and science in general. The event will be introduced and moderated by renowned physicist Professor Richard Price, and Professor Saul Teukolsky (the 2021 Einstein Prize awardee) will give an introductory talk on the computational challenges and solutions for simulating black holes and gravitational waves on computers, and the interesting science that can be done thanks to the LIGO and VIRGO gravitational-wave detectors. ABOUT THE SPEAKERS Kip Thorne is a theoretical physicist known for his contributions in gravitational physics and astrophysics. A longtime friend and colleague of Stephen Hawking and Carl Sagan, he was the Feynman Professor of Theoretical Physics at the California Institute of Technology (Caltech) until 2009 and is one of the world’s leading experts on the astrophysical implications of Einstein’s general theory of relativity. He continues to do scientific research and scientific consulting, most notably for the Christopher Nolan film Interstellar. Thorne was awarded the 2017 Nobel Prize in Physics along with Rainer Weiss and Barry C. Barish “for decisive contributions to the LIGO detector and the observation of gravitational waves”. Richard Price earned his Ph.D. from Caltech under the supervision of Kip Thorne. From there, he spent part of his career at the University of Utah, where he holds the title of Emeritus Professor. In 2004 he joined the Center for Gravitational Wave Astronomy at the University of Texas, and became Senior Lecturer in physics at MIT in 2015. He is also on the adjunct faculty at the University of Massachusetts. In 2017, Price became the editor of the American Journal of Physics. Subsequent work has provided a major impetus for the development of gravitational wave detectors such as LIGO. He is a Fellow of the American Physical Society and the American Association for the Advancement of Science. Saul Teukolksy earned his Ph.D. from Caltech under the supervision of Kip Thorne. Since then he has held a faculty position at Cornell University, where he is currently the Hans A. Bethe Professor of Physics. His earliest work led to the development of an equation that describes how a black hole interacts with surrounding objects. Subsequent research has included the physics of pulsars and supernova explosions, properties of rapidly rotating neutron stars, stellar dynamics, and planets around pulsars. His current project uses supercomputers to study colliding black holes as part of a world-wide effort trying to solve Einstein’s equations of general relativity. Recently, one of his group’s wave forms was used to compare theory with experiment in the first detection by the Laser Interferometer Gravitational Wave Observatory (LIGO). He is a Fellow of the American Physical Society and a Fellow of the American Astronomical Society. He was elected to the American Association for the Advancement of Science and the National Academy of Sciences and was most recently awarded the Einstein Prize. Zoom credentials will be sent to all registered participants the day before and the day of the event. A Virtual ICERM Public Event: Q&A with Kip Thorne, Nobel Prize-winning Theoretical Physicist (Institute for Computational and Experimental Research in Mathematics (ICERM)) Black Holes, computational physics, gravitational waves, LIGO Dec 2 4:00pm DSI & CCMB Data Wednesday Seminar Series: Brenden Lake, NYU BRENDEN LAKE Assistant Professor of Psychology and Data Science, NYU LEARNING THROUGH THE EYES OF A CHILD Young children have meaningful expectations about the world around them. What is the origin of this early knowledge? How much can be explained through generic learning mechanisms applied to sensory data, and how much requires more substantive innate inductive biases? Addressing this fundamental question in its full generality is infeasible, but we can hope to make real progress in more narrowly defined domains, such as the development of high-level visual categories, thanks to new datasets and progress in deep learning. We train large-scale neural networks through the eyes of a single developing child, using longitudinal baby headcam videos (Sullivan et al., 2020, PsyArxiv). Our results show how high-level visual representations emerge from a subset of one baby’s experience, through only self-supervised learning. Biography Brenden builds computational models of everyday cognitive abilities, focusing on problems that are easier for people than they are for machines. The human mind is the best-known solution to a diverse array of difficult computational problems: learning new concepts, learning new tasks, understanding scenes, learning a language, asking questions, forming explanations, amongst many others. Machines also struggle to simulate other facets of human intelligence, including creativity, curiosity, self-assessment, and commonsense reasoning. In this broad space of computational challenges, Brenden’s work has addressed a range of questions: How do people learn a new concept from just one or a few examples? How do people act creatively when designing new concepts? How do people learn qualitatively different forms of structure? How do people ask questions when searching for information? By studying these distinctively human endeavors, there is potential to advance both cognitive science and machine learning. In cognitive science, building a computational model is a test of understanding; if people outperform all existing algorithms on certain types of problems, we have more to understand about how people solve them. In machine learning, these cognitive abilities are both important open problems as well as opportunities to reverse engineer human solutions. By studying human solutions to difficult computational problems, Brenden aims to better understand humans and to build machines that learn in more powerful and more human-like ways. Follow Brenden on Twitter: @LakeBrenden DSI & CCMB Data Wednesday Seminar Series The Data Science Initiative (DSI) joins the Center for Computational and Molecular Biology (CCMB) every Wednesday afternoon, 4 – 5 pm during the academic year to present lecturers in various mathematical and statistical fields worldwide, as well as local researchers on Brown’s campus. The aim is to provide students, staff, faculty, and visitors with an introduction to current research topics in the fields of data science, mathematics, statistics, and computer science. Please check our events page for more information on these and other events of interest. DSI & CCMB Data Wednesday Seminar Series: Brenden Lake, NYU Dec 2 12:00pm DSI’s Decoding Pandemic Data Series: Xihong Lin, Harvard XIHONG LIN Professor and Former Chair, Department of Biostatistics Coordinating Director of the Program in Quantitative Genomics at the Harvard T. H. Chan School of Public Health Professor of the Department of Statistics at the Faculty of Arts and Sciences of Harvard University Associate Member of the Broad Institute of Harvard and MIT LEARNING FROM COVID-19 DATA IN WUHAN, USA, AND THE WORLD ON TRANSMISSION, HEALTH OUTCOMES, AND INTERVENTIONS COVID-19 is an emerging respiratory infectious disease that has become a pandemic. In this talk, I will first provide a historical overview of the epidemic in Wuhan. I will then provide the analysis results of 32,000 lab-confirmed COVID-19 cases in Wuhan to estimate the transmission rates using Poisson Partial Differential Equation based transmission dynamic models. This model is also used to evaluate the effects of different public health interventions on controlling the COVID-19 outbreak, such as social distancing, isolation, and quarantine. I will present the results of the epidemiological characteristics of the cases. The results show that multi-faceted intervention measures successfully controlled the outbreak in Wuhan. I will next present transmission regression models for estimating transmission rates in the USA and other countries, as well as factors including intervention effects using social distancing, test-trace-isolate strategies that affect transmission rates. I will present the analysis results of >500,000 participants of the HowWeFeel project on symptoms and health conditions in the US, and discuss the risk factors of the epidemic. I will discuss the estimation of the proportion of undetected cases, including asymptomatic, pre-symptomatic cases, and mildly symptomatic cases, the chances of a resurgence in different scenarios, and the factors that affect transmissions. I will provide several takeaways and discuss priorities. Biography: Dr. Lin is an elected member of the National Academy of Medicine. She received the 2002 Mortimer Spiegelman Award from the American Public Health Association and the 2006 Committee of Presidents of Statistical Societies (COPSS) Presidents’ Award and the 2017 COPSS FN David Award. She is an elected fellow of the American Statistical Association (ASA), Institute of Mathematical Statistics, and International Statistical Institute. Dr. Lin’s research interests lie in the development and application of statistical and computational methods for the analysis of massive data from the genome, exposome, and phenome, and scalable statistical inference and learning for big genomic, epidemiological, and health data. Examples include analytic methods and applications for large scale Whole Genome Sequencing studies, biobanks and electronic health records, whole-genome variant functional annotations, genes and environment, multiple phenotype analysis, risk prediction, integrative analysis of different types of data, causal mediation analysis and causal inference, analysis of epidemiological and complex observational study data. Her theoretical and computational statistical research includes statistical methods for testing a large number of complex hypotheses, causal inference, statistical inference for large covariance matrices, prediction models using high-dimensional data, cloud-based statistical computing, and statistical methods for epidemiological studies. Dr. Lin’s statistical methodological research has been supported by the MERIT Award (R37) (2007-2015) and the Outstanding Investigator Award (OIA) (R35) (2015-2022) from the National Cancer Institute (NCI). She is the contact PI of the Harvard Analysis Center of the Genome Sequencing Program of the National Human Genome Research Institute, and the multiple PI of the U19 grant on Integrative Analysis of Lung Cancer Etiology and Risk from NCI. She is also the contact PI of the T32 training grant on interdisciplinary training in statistical genetics and computational biology. She is the former contact PI of the Program Project (PO1) on Statistical Informatics in Cancer Research from NCI. Dr. Lin is the former Chair of the COPSS (2010-2012) and a former member of the Committee of Applied and Theoretical Statistics (CATS) of the National Academy of Science. She co-launched the new Section of Statistical Genetics and Genomics of the American Statistical Association and served as a former section chair. She is the former Coordinating Editor of Biometrics and the founding co-editor of Statistics in Biosciences. She has served on a large number of committees of many statistical societies, and numerous NIH and NSF review panels. DSI’s Decoding Pandemic Data Series: Xihong Lin, Harvard Nov 24 3:00pm - 4:00pm Carney Conversations: Making advances in Alzheimer’s research from the bench to the bedside Zoom Join the Carney Institute for Brain Science for a conversation focused on Alzheimer’s research at Brown University, featuring: Stephen Salloway, Martin M. Zucker Professor of Psychiatry and Human Behavior at Brown, director of neurology and the Memory and Aging Program at Butler Hospital in Providence, RI Ashley Webb, Richard and Edna Salomon Assistant Professor of Molecular Biology, Cell Biology and Biochemistry This event will be moderated by Diane Lipscombe, Reliance Dhirubhai Ambani Director of the Carney Institute, and Christopher Moore, associate director of the Carney Institute. Carney Conversations: Making advances in Alzheimer’s research from the bench to the bedside (Carney Institute for Brain Science) ALZ, Biology, Medicine, Public Health, CTN, Psychology & Cognitive Sciences, Research Nov 23 12:00pm - 1:00pm Statistics Seminar Series, Terrance Savitsky, PhD Terrance Savitsky, PhD Research Mathematical Statistician Mathematical Statistics Research Center U. S. Bureau of Labor Statistics Title: Pseudo Posterior Mechanism under Differential Privacy Abstract: We propose a Bayesian pseudo posterior mechanism to generate record-level synthetic datasets equipped with a diﬀerential privacy (DP) guarantee from any proposed synthesis model. The pseudo posterior mechanism employs a data record-indexed, risk-based weight vector with weights ∈ [0, 1] to surgically downweight high-risk records for the generation and release of record-level synthetic data. The diﬀerentially private pseudo posterior synthesizer constructs weights using Lipschitz bounds for a log-pseudo likelihood utility for each data record, which provides a practical, general formulation for using weights based on record-level sensitivities that we show achieves dramatic improvements in the DP expenditure as compared to the unweighted posterior mechanism. By selecting weights to remove likelihood contributions with non-ﬁnite log-likelihood values, we achieve a local privacy guarantee at every sample size. We compute a local sensitivity speciﬁc to our Consumer Expenditure Surveys dataset for family income, published by the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics, and reveal mild conditions that guarantee its contraction to a global sensitivity result over the space of databases. We further employ a censoring mechanism to lock-in a local result with desirable risk and utility performances to achieve a global privacy result as an alternative to relying on asymptotics. We show that utility is better preserved for our pseudo posterior mechanism as compared to the exponential mechanism (EM) estimated on the same non-private synthesizer due to the use of targeted downweighting. Our results may be applied to any synthesizing model envisioned by the data disseminator in a computationally tractable way that only involves estimation of a pseudo posterior distribution for parameter(s) θ, unlike recent approaches that use naturally-bounded utility functions under application of the EM. (Joint work with Matthew R. Williams and Jingchen Hu) Keywords: Diﬀerential privacy, Pseudo posterior, Pseudo posterior mechanism, Synthetic data For more information about the Statistics Seminar Series go here. Statistics Seminar Series, Terrance Savitsky, PhD (Biostatistics) Biology, Medicine, Public Health, BioStatsSeminar, Graduate School, Postgraduate Education, Mathematics, Technology, Engineering, Research, Training, Professional Development Nov 20 1:00pm DSI Faculty for Faculty (F4F) Research Talks: Brenda Rubenstein (Chemistry) PLEASE NOTE THIS TALK IS FOR FACULTY ONLY. THIS TALK HAS BEEN RESCHEDULED TO BEGIN AT 1:00 PM. BRENDA RUBENSTEIN Joukowsky Family Assistant Professor of Chemistry, Brown University LEARNING QUANTUM MECHANICS: HOW MACHINE LEARNING IS (AND IS NOT) TRANSFORMING THE PRACTICE OF QUANTUM MECHANICS Much of our ability to understand the quantum world, including how to design new materials, synthesize new molecules, and study puzzling emergent quantum phases, rests upon our ability to accurately solve the Schrodinger Equation. While the recipe for solving the Schrodinger Equation has been known for over a century, the cost of finding its exact solutions scales exponentially with system size, a fact which has frustrated the progress of quantum chemistry and physics for decades. The rise of data science, however, presents new and exciting opportunities for potentially accelerating the solution of the Schrodinger Equation - or foregoing its solution whatsoever by directly predicting quantum properties. In this talk, I will describe how machine learning is and isn’t transforming our ability to model quantum phenomena drawing upon examples from my own group’s research and the wider literature. Biography: Dr. Brenda Rubenstein is currently the Joukowsky Family Assistant Professor of Chemistry at Brown University. While the focus of her work is on developing new electronic structure methods, she is also deeply engaged in rethinking computing architectures. Prior to arriving at Brown, she was a Lawrence Distinguished Postdoctoral Fellow at Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory. She received her Sc.B.s in Chemical Physics and Applied Mathematics at Brown University, her M.Phil. in Computational Chemistry while a Churchill Scholar at the University of Cambridge, and her Ph.D. in Chemical Physics at Columbia University. Ask her about basketball - you may be surprised! Faculty for Faculty Research Talks This is an opportunity for faculty to share current data science-related research activities with other faculty colleagues in an informal and interdisciplinary environment. More about this series on our website. DSI Faculty for Faculty (F4F) Research Talks: Brenda Rubenstein (Chemistry) Nov 20 12:00pm Use of the OpenMRS open source EHR to support management of COVID-19 in Haiti, Nepal and Kenya Use of the OpenMRS open source EHR to support management of COVID-19 in Haiti, Nepal and Kenya Hamish Fraser MBChB, MSc FACMI, Associate Professor of Medical Science, Center for Biomedical Informatics, Brown University Steven Wanyee MSc, Director of Biomedical Informatics, IntelliSOFT Consulting Limited, Nairobi, Kenya Managing COVID-19 requires accurate up to date data on new cases, contact tracing and case management. Managing epidemic diseases is a core function of health systems in many low and middle income countries, such as recent outbreaks of Ebola in West Africa, and Dengue, Zika and cholera in many countries. This has spurred the development of health information systems to capture data in community and health facility settings and to report data to public health authorities and contact tracing teams. Several established open source health information systems have been deployed to support management of COVID-19 including mobile health platforms (CommCare, MedicMobile), a national aggregate data reporting system (DHIS2) and a surveillance system (SORMAS). In this presentation I will describe the use of the OpenMRS open source EHR system in management of COVID-19 on Haiti and Nepal. Mr Wanyee will connect from Kenya to describe a large scale implementation of OpenMRS for the MOH national COVID-19 data management system there. We will also discuss the role of primary care EHR systems in improving disease surveillance. Zoom Registration Required: https://brown.zoom.us/meeting/register/tJcqce-prj0vEtSrZRcfk4h9a4Q-CTPdRH9- I 2 S 2 covers the breadth of topics in effectively using data and technology to advance biomedical discovery and healthcare delivery. Each learning activity (seminar, journal club, workshop, or tutorial) features methods, applications, or resources that are aligned with components of a learning health system. This series is a joint initiative between the Brown Center for Biomedical Informatics , Brown Department of Psychiatry and Human Behavior Implementation Science Core , Rhode Island Quality Institute , and Advance Clinical and Translational Research (Advance-CTR) . Use of the OpenMRS open source EHR to support management of COVID-19 in Haiti, Nepal and Kenya (Center for Biomedical Informatics (BCBI)) Biology, Medicine, Public Health, Government, Public & International Affairs, International, Global Engagement, Research, Social Sciences Nov 19 2:00pm Carney Methods Meetup: Beyond the Brady Bunch Meeting Zoom Carney Methods Meetups: Beyond the Brady Bunch Meeting Join the Carney Institute for Brain Science for a Carney Methods Meetups, an informal gathering focused on methods for brain science, on Thursday, November 19, at 2 p.m. Jason Ritt, Carney’s scientific director of quantitative neuroscience, David Sheinberg, professor of neuroscience, and Andrew Creamer, scientific data management specialist in the Brown Library, will lead an open discussion of tools and tricks to enhance virtual meetings for brainstorming, collaborative manuscript editing, poster presentation, social events, and others. Some tools like OBS studio and spatial.chat will be briefly demonstrated, and we invite further ideas from the community. Please note, this workshop requires you to be logged into Zoom through your Brown account. Click to learn more. Notes from previous Meetups are available online. Carney Methods Meetup: Beyond the Brady Bunch Meeting (Carney Institute for Brain Science) Biology, Medicine, Public Health, Psychology & Cognitive Sciences, Research, Teaching & Learning Nov 19 12:00pm Empowerment Over Oppression: Design and Data for Social Justice Virtual Join the Brown Arts Initiative and Data Science Initiative for a series of conversations at the intersection of data science and design with a focus on social justice. In the words of Ramon Tejada, founder of the Decolonizing Design Reader, “The histories of these fields, with their respective exclusionary practices and methods, demonstrate complicity in creating the societal problem we face today. Many of these issues raise uncomfortable concepts that we all need to work through in our own individual practices as scientists, designers, and human beings.” Acknowledging moments of convergence, these interdisciplinary talks seek to generate new collaborations at Brown and beyond while acknowledging that data and design are not neutral. November 18, 12 PM: Radical Prescience: Silas Munro on W.E.B DuBois’s Data Portraits Silas Munro - founder of Polymode design studio and an Associate Professor at Otis College of Art and Design - revisits his tour de force lecture on W.E.B. DuBois’s groundbreaking data visualizations following the recent anti-racism uprisings and the increasing visibility and support of the Black Lives Matter movement. November 19, 12 PM: Empowerment Over Oppression: Design and Data for Social Justice Join Alice Grandoit (co-founder of Deem Journal, a new biannual print and online platform focused on design as social practice) and Sarah Williams (author of the forthcoming Data Action: Using Data for Public Good) in a conversation moderated by Ramon Tejada (founder of the Decolonizing Design Reader). Alice Grandoitis a social engagement designer and cultural researcher building awareness through strategic community partnerships, programming, and experiences. Her practice is rooted in empowerment, cultural collaborations, and the creation of experiential platforms molded around emergent creatives. These ideas are united by her work as the co-founder and editorial director of Deem Journal. Silas Munrois a partner of Polymode, a bi-coastal design studio, creating poetic, and research-informed design with clients in the cultural sphere and community-based organizations. Clients of Polymode include MoMA, The Phillips Collection, Mark Bradford at the Venice Biennale, The Center for Urban Pedagogy, Walker Art Center, Cooper Hewitt Design Museum, ICA at Virginia Commonwealth University, and The New Museum. Munro also serves as Associate Professor of Communication Arts at the Otis College of Art and Design in Los Angeles, and Advisor, Founding Faculty, and Chair Emeritus at Vermont College of Fine Arts. In the past year he has emerged as one of the most exciting practitioners of community-engaged design and as an influential scholar known for his contributions to W. E. B. Du Bois’s Data Portraits: Visualizing Black Americapublished by Princeton Architectural Press in late 2018. In workshops and lectures he addresses post-colonial relationships between design and marginalized communities and offers practical ways for educators and practitioners to decolonize the way design is taught and to create inclusive new frameworks. His design and writing has been published in books, exhibitions, and websites in Germany, Japan, Korea, the US, and the UK including Chronicle Books, IDEA magazine, Eye, and Slanted magazine. Munro earned a BFA from Rhode Island School of Design and an MFA from California Institute of the Arts. Ramon Tejada is a (New Yorkino / American) designer ( as Estudio Ramon ) and educator based in Providence, RI. He works in a hybrid design/teaching practice focusing on collaboration, inclusion, unearthing and the responsible expansion of design – a practice he has named “puncturing.” Ramon is an Assistant Professor in the Graphic Design Department at RISD. Sarah Williamsis currently an Associate Professor of Technology and Urban Planning at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) where she also directs the Civic Data Design Lab and chairs MIT’s new undergraduate program in Urban Science. Williams combines her training in computation and design to create communication strategies that expose urban policy issues to broad audiences and create civic change. She calls the process Data Action, which is also the name of her recent book published by MIT Press. Williams is co-founder and developer of Envelope.city, a web-based software product that visualizes and allows users to modify zoning in New York City. Before coming to MIT, Williams was Co-Director of the Spatial Information Design Lab at Columbia University’s Graduate School of Architecture Planning and Preservation (GSAPP), where she was a member of the Million Dollar Blocks team which is well known for using visualization to highlight the costs of incarceration. Her design work has been widely exhibited including work in the Guggenheim, the Museum of Modern Art (MoMA), Venice Biennale, and the Cooper Hewitt Museum. Williams has won numerous awards including being named top 25 planners in the technology and Game Changer by Metropolis Magazine. Check out her upcoming exhibition, Visualizing NYC 2021, at the Center for Architecture in New York City which opens November 17th. Empowerment Over Oppression: Design and Data for Social Justice (Brown Arts Initiative (BAI)) Nov 18 4:00pm - 5:00pm CCBS Special Seminar: “Differential Resilience of Neurons and Networks with Similar Behavior to Perturbation” Zoom Please join Carney’s Center for Computational Brain Science (CCBS) on November 18 for a special seminar on “Differential Resilience of Neurons and Networks with Similar Behavior to Perturbation,” featuring Eve Marder, Ph.D., university professor and Victor and Gwendolyn Beinfield Professor of Biology at Brandeis University. Please note, you must be logged into Zoom through your Brown account to join this event. Abstract: Both computational and experimental results in single neurons and small networks demonstrate that very similar network function can result from quite disparate sets of neuronal and network parameters. Using the crustacean stomatogastric nervous system, we study the influence of these differences in underlying structure on differential resilience of individuals to a variety of environmental perturbations, including changes in temperature, pH, potassium concentration and neuromodulation. We show that neurons with many different kinds of ion channels can smoothly move through different mechanisms in generating their activity patterns, thus extending their dynamic range. CCBS Special Seminar: “Differential Resilience of Neurons and Networks with Similar Behavior to Perturbation” (Carney Institute for Brain Science) Biology, Medicine, Public Health, CCBS, Psychology & Cognitive Sciences, Research Nov 18 4:00pm DSI & CCMB Data Wednesday: Nandita Garud, UCLA NANDITA GARUD Assistant Professor, Ecology and Evolutionary Biology, UCLA RAPID ADAPTATION IN NATURAL POPULATIONS: LESSONS FROM DROSOPHILA AND THE HUMAN MICROBIOME The availability of whole-genome data from natural populations has challenged many long-standing assumptions about molecular evolution. For example, it has long been assumed that natural selection is typically slow and infrequent. Using whole-genome data from both Drosophila and the human microbiome, I found evidence that rapid adaptation is much more pervasive than previously thought. In my talk, I will first describe a method I developed to detect soft sweeps, a signature of rapid adaptation, and its application to Drosophila and other, non-model organism data. Next, I will show that selective sweeps of genes and SNPs in bacteria in the human microbiome are common on 6-month time scales and that these sweeps likely originate in adaptive introgression from other species and strains in the microbiome. This suggests that complex ecological communities can play an important role in shaping evolution on short time scales. In sum, I will describe how we can leverage whole-genome data and novel statistics for uncovering the mode and tempo of adaptation in natural populations. DSI & CCMB Data Wednesday Seminar Series The Data Science Initiative (DSI) joins the Center for Computational and Molecular Biology (CCMB) every Wednesday afternoon, 4 – 5 pm during the academic year to present lecturers in various mathematical and statistical fields worldwide, as well as local researchers on Brown’s campus. The aim is to provide students, staff, faculty, and visitors with an introduction to current research topics in the fields of data science, mathematics, statistics, and computer science. Please check our events page for more information on these and other events of interest. DSI & CCMB Data Wednesday: Nandita Garud, UCLA Nov 18 12:00pm Radical Prescience: Silas Munro on W.E.B DuBois’s Data Portraits Virtual Join the Brown Arts Initiative and Data Science Initiative for a series of conversations at the intersection of data science and design with a focus on social justice. In the words of Ramon Tejada, founder of the Decolonizing Design Reader, “The histories of these fields, with their respective exclusionary practices and methods, demonstrate complicity in creating the societal problem we face today. Many of these issues raise uncomfortable concepts that we all need to work through in our own individual practices as scientists, designers, and human beings.” Acknowledging moments of convergence, these interdisciplinary talks seek to generate new collaborations at Brown and beyond while acknowledging that data and design are not neutral. November 18, 12 PM: Radical Prescience: Silas Munro on W.E.B DuBois’s Data Portraits Silas Munro - founder of Polymode design studio and an Associate Professor at Otis College of Art and Design - revisits his tour de force lecture on W.E.B. DuBois’s groundbreaking data visualizations following the recent anti-racism uprisings and the increasing visibility and support of the Black Lives Matter movement. November 19, 12 PM: Empowerment Over Oppression: Design and Data for Social Justice Join Alice Grandoit (co-founder of Deem Journal, a new biannual print and online platform focused on design as social practice) and Sarah Williams (author of the forthcoming Data Action: Using Data for Public Good) in a conversation moderated by Ramon Tejada (founder of the Decolonizing Design Reader). Alice Grandoitis a social engagement designer and cultural researcher building awareness through strategic community partnerships, programming, and experiences. Her practice is rooted in empowerment, cultural collaborations, and the creation of experiential platforms molded around emergent creatives. These ideas are united by her work as the co-founder and editorial director of Deem Journal. Silas Munrois a partner of Polymode, a bi-coastal design studio, creating poetic, and research-informed design with clients in the cultural sphere and community-based organizations. Clients of Polymode include MoMA, The Phillips Collection, Mark Bradford at the Venice Biennale, The Center for Urban Pedagogy, Walker Art Center, Cooper Hewitt Design Museum, ICA at Virginia Commonwealth University, and The New Museum. Munro also serves as Associate Professor of Communication Arts at the Otis College of Art and Design in Los Angeles, and Advisor, Founding Faculty, and Chair Emeritus at Vermont College of Fine Arts. In the past year he has emerged as one of the most exciting practitioners of community-engaged design and as an influential scholar known for his contributions to W. E. B. Du Bois’s Data Portraits: Visualizing Black Americapublished by Princeton Architectural Press in late 2018. In workshops and lectures he addresses post-colonial relationships between design and marginalized communities and offers practical ways for educators and practitioners to decolonize the way design is taught and to create inclusive new frameworks. His design and writing has been published in books, exhibitions, and websites in Germany, Japan, Korea, the US, and the UK including Chronicle Books, IDEA magazine, Eye, and Slanted magazine. Munro earned a BFA from Rhode Island School of Design and an MFA from California Institute of the Arts. Ramon Tejada is a (New Yorkino / American) designer ( as Estudio Ramon ) and educator based in Providence, RI. He works in a hybrid design/teaching practice focusing on collaboration, inclusion, unearthing and the responsible expansion of design – a practice he has named “puncturing.” Ramon is an Assistant Professor in the Graphic Design Department at RISD. Sarah Williamsis currently an Associate Professor of Technology and Urban Planning at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) where she also directs the Civic Data Design Lab and chairs MIT’s new undergraduate program in Urban Science. Williams combines her training in computation and design to create communication strategies that expose urban policy issues to broad audiences and create civic change. She calls the process Data Action, which is also the name of her recent book published by MIT Press. Williams is co-founder and developer of Envelope.city, a web-based software product that visualizes and allows users to modify zoning in New York City. Before coming to MIT, Williams was Co-Director of the Spatial Information Design Lab at Columbia University’s Graduate School of Architecture Planning and Preservation (GSAPP), where she was a member of the Million Dollar Blocks team which is well known for using visualization to highlight the costs of incarceration. Her design work has been widely exhibited including work in the Guggenheim, the Museum of Modern Art (MoMA), Venice Biennale, and the Cooper Hewitt Museum. Williams has won numerous awards including being named top 25 planners in the technology and Game Changer by Metropolis Magazine. Check out her upcoming exhibition, Visualizing NYC 2021, at the Center for Architecture in New York City which opens November 17th. Radical Prescience: Silas Munro on W.E.B DuBois’s Data Portraits (Brown Arts Initiative (BAI)) Nov 16 12:00pm - 1:00pm Statistics Seminar Series, Juned Siddique, DrPH Juned Siddique, DrPH Associate Professor Departments of Preventive Medicine and Psychiatry and Behavioral Sciences Northwestern University Feinberg School of Medicine Bio: Dr. Siddique’s research efforts focus on developing statistical methods for handling incomplete or missing data. He applies these methods to a range of problems including rater bias, participant dropout, data harmonization in individual participant data analysis, and measurement error. He collaborates closely with lifestyle intervention researchers and is interested in the analysis of diet and physical activity data. Title: “Measurement error correction and sensitivity analysis in longitudinal dietary intervention studies using an external validation study” Abstract: In lifestyle intervention trials, where the goal is to change a participant’s weight or modify their eating behavior, self-reported diet is a longitudinal outcome variable that is subject to measurement error. We propose a statistical framework for correcting for measurement error in longitudinal self-reported dietary data by combining intervention data with auxiliary data from an external biomarker validation study where both self-reported and recovery biomarkers of dietary intake are available. In this setting, dietary intake measured without error in the intervention trial is missing data and multiple imputation is used to fill in the missing measurements. Since most validation studies are cross-sectional, they do not contain information on whether the nature of the measurement error changes over time or differs between treatment and control groups. We use sensitivity analyses to address the influence of these unverifiable assumptions involving the measurement error process and how they affect inferences regarding the effect of treatment. We apply our methods to self-reported sodium intake from the PREMIER study, a multi-component lifestyle intervention trial. For more information about the Statistics Seminar Series go here. Statistics Seminar Series, Juned Siddique, DrPH (Biostatistics) Biology, Medicine, Public Health, BioStatsSeminar, Graduate School, Postgraduate Education, Mathematics, Technology, Engineering, Research, Training, Professional Development Nov 13 1:30pm DSI’s Faculty for Faculty Research Talks (F4F): Eli Upfal (Brown CS) Please note the following talk is only available to faculty members. ELI UPFAL Professor of Computer Science, Brown University BIG DATA: Where Practice Meets Theory Responsible and relevant data science requires rigorous analytical tools or evaluating and improving prediction and presentation accuracy. Here we’ll discuss techniques for enhancing the accuracy of weakly supervised learning and tools for measuring and reducing structural bias in hyperlinked data. (F4F) Faculty for Faculty Research Talks DSI Faculty for Faculty Research Talks are an opportunity for faculty to share current data science-related research activities with other faculty colleagues in an informal environment. The talks are presented at a very general level, to stimulate discussion and interdisciplinary interchange of ideas. Our goal is to provide a networking venue that promotes research collaborations between faculty across all disciplines; awareness of the breadth of data science-related research at Brown; and a forum for faculty to share their expertise with one another. Participation will be limited to faculty members. DSI’s Faculty for Faculty Research Talks (F4F): Eli Upfal (Brown CS) Nov 12 12:00pm Translational Research Seminar Series Zoom Advance-CTR Services Core users share the research projects they developed with help from the cores: Stephen Sheinkopf, PhD: “Infant Cry Acoustics: Developing Novel Indicators of Risk for Autism” Elizabeth Goldberg, MD: “Leveraging Local Resources to Get a Career Development Award” Register now! Translational Research Seminar Series (Advance-CTR) Biology, Medicine, Public Health, Research, Training, Professional Development Nov 11 2:30pm DSI & CCMB Data Wednesday: Damon Centola PLEASE NOTE THE SPECIAL TIME FOR THIS EVENT! DAMON CENTOLA Professor, Annenberg School for Communication, School of Arts and Sciences, and the School of Engineering and Applied Sciences Director of the Network Dynamics Group Senior Fellow, Leonard Davis Institute of Health Economics University of Pennsylvania HOW SIMILAR MEANING SYSTEMS EMERGE ACROSS DIVERSE CULTURES Categories are everywhere. Everything we touch, eat, and do is part of a system of categories that define our world. Although there is widespread agreement in society about the categories used for familiar objects – from furniture to fruit – recent studies have found that individuals vary widely in how they categorize novel and ambiguous phenomena. This individual variation has led influential theories in cognitive and social science to suggest that communication in large social groups introduces path dependence in category formation, which is expected to lead separate populations toward divergent cultural trajectories. Remarkably, however, similar category systems for color, animals, plants, and shapes are found to arise independently across many cultures around the world. How is it possible for diverse populations, consisting of individuals with significant variation in how they categorize the world, to nevertheless independently construct similar category systems? We investigated this puzzle experimentally by creating an online “Grouping Game” in which we observed how people in small and large populations collaboratively constructed category systems for a continuum of ambiguous stimuli. In this talk, I present new findings showing that solitary individuals and small groups produce highly divergent category systems; however across independent trials with unique participants, large populations consistently converge on highly similar category systems. I present a new theory of critical mass dynamics in social networks, which accurately predicts this process of “scale-induced category convergence”. These findings reveal how large communication networks can filter lexical diversity among individuals to produce replicable society-level patterns, yielding unexpected implications for cultural evolution. BIOGRAPHY Damon Centola is a Professor in the Annenberg School for Communication, the School of Arts and Sciences, and the School of Engineering and Applied Sciences at the University of Pennsylvania, where he is Director of the Network Dynamics Group and Senior Fellow at the Leonard Davis Institute of Health Economics. His research addresses social networks and behavior change. His work has been published across several disciplines in journals such as Science, Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences, American Journal of Sociology, and Journal of Statistical Physics. Damon received the American Sociological Association’s Award for Outstanding Research in Mathematical Sociology in 2006, 2009, and 2011; the Goodman Prize for Outstanding Contribution to Sociological Methodology in 2011; the James Coleman Award for Outstanding Research in Rationality and Society in 2017; and the Harrison White Award for Outstanding Scholarly Book in 2019. He was a developer of the NetLogo agent based modeling environment, and was awarded a U.S. Patent for inventing a method to promote diffusion in online networks. He is a member of the Sci Foo community and Fellow of the Center for Advanced Study in the Behavioral Sciences at Stanford University. Damon’s research has been funded by the National Science Foundation, the Robert Wood Johnson Foundation, Facebook, the National Institutes of Health, the James S. McDonnell Foundation, and the Hewlett Foundation. He is a series editor for Princeton University Press, and the author of How Behavior Spreads: The Science of Complex Contagions, and Change: The Power in the Periphery to Make Big Things Happen. Before coming to Penn, Damon was an Assistant Professor at MIT and a Robert Wood Johnson Fellow at Harvard. Damon’s speaking and consulting clients include Amazon, Microsoft, Apple, Cigna, the Smithsonian Institution, the American Heart Association, the National Academies, the U.S. Army and the NBA. Popular accounts of Damon’s work have appeared in The New York Times, The Washington Post, The Wall Street Journal, Wired, TIME, The Atlantic, Scientific American and CNN. Data Wednesdays The Data Science Initiative joins the Center for Computational and Molecular Biology (CCMB) every Wednesday afternoon, 4 – 5 pm during the academic year to present lecturers in various mathematical and statistical fields worldwide, as well as local researchers on Brown’s campus. The aim is to provide students, staff, faculty, and visitors with an introduction to current research topics in the fields of data science, mathematics, statistics and computer science. Please check our events page for more information on these and other events of interest. DSI & CCMB Data Wednesday: Damon Centola Nov 11 12:00pm - 1:30pm Introduction to REDCap Zoom Workshop Description Geared toward new or novice REDCap users, “Introduction to REDCap” answers “what” REDCap is, “why” you want to use it, and goes through the entire life cycle of a REDCap project – from initial setup to data entry and finally exporting your data. About the Instructor Sarah B. Andrea, PhD, MPH, is a research scientist with the Lifespan Biostatistics Core at Rhode Island Hospital. In addition to providing design and statistical oversight and mentorship, she also conducts research investigating strategies to mitigate race-, class-, and gender-based inequities in health throughout the life course. Dr. Andrea has been working with REDCap for five years. Register now! Introduction to REDCap (Advance-CTR) Biology, Medicine, Public Health, Research, Training, Professional Development Nov 10 12:00pm Epidemiology Special Seminar: Gerardo Chowell, Ph.D. “Tackling Epidemics and Pandemics Using Mathematical, Statistical, and Computational Modeling Tools” Epidemiology Special Seminar: Gerardo Chowell, Ph.D. “Tackling Epidemics and Pandemics Using Mathematical, Statistical, and Computational Modeling Tools” (Epidemiology) Biology, Medicine, Public Health, Graduate School, Postgraduate Education, Mathematics, Technology, Engineering Nov 9 12:00pm - 1:00pm Statistics Seminar Series, Thomas Jaki, Lancaster University, UK Thomas Jaki, PhD Professor of Statistics, Department of Mathematics and Statistics Lancaster University and Programme Leader at the MRC Biostatistics Unit, University of Cambridge Bio: Thomas Jaki is a Professor in Statistics in the Department of Mathematics and Statistics at Lancaster University. His research interests include design and analysis of clinical trials, early phase drug development, personalized medicine and biostatistics. An Information-Theoretic Approach for Selecting Arms in Clinical Trials Abstract: The question of selecting the “best” amongst different choices is a common problem in statistics. In drug development, our motivating setting, the question becomes, for example: which treatment gives the best response rate or which dose of a treatment gives an acceptable risk of toxicity. In this talk I will introduce a flexible adaptive experimental design that is based on the theory of context-dependent information measures. I will show that the design leads to a reliable selection of the correct arm in the settings of Phase I and Phase II clinical trials. For more information about the Statistics Seminar Series go here. Statistics Seminar Series, Thomas Jaki, Lancaster University, UK (Biostatistics) Biology, Medicine, Public Health, BioStatsSeminar, Graduate School, Postgraduate Education, Mathematics, Technology, Engineering, Research, Training, Professional Development Nov 6 12:00pm Bridging Informatics and Implementation Science for Learning Health Systems Biomedical Informaticsis the “interdisciplinary field that studies and pursues the effective uses of biomedical data, information, and knowledge for scientific inquiry, problem solving, and decision making, driven by efforts to improve human health.” (Kulikowski et al., 2012) Implementation Scienceis “the scientific study of methods to promote the systematic uptake of research findings and other evidence-based practices into routine practice, and, hence, to improve the quality and effectiveness of health services.” (Bauer et al., 2015) Learning Health Systems are systems in which “science, informatics, incentives, and culture are aligned for continuous improvement and innovation, with best practices seamlessly embedded in the delivery process and new knowledge captured as an integral by-product of the delivery experience.” (IOM, 2013) The Informatics and Implementation Science Learning Series (I 2 S 2 ) will kick off with introductions to informatics and implementation science, which will be followed by a discussion on bridging these fields to support a learning health system for COVID-19 in Rhode Island. Registration Via Zoom Required: https://brown.zoom.us/meeting/register/tJUqcOygrzkiH9aP99w9tw79MB9JKiB73vn0 I 2 S 2 covers the breadth of topics in effectively using data and technology to advance biomedical discovery and healthcare delivery. Each learning activity (seminar, journal club, workshop, or tutorial) features methods, applications, or resources that are aligned with components of a learning health system. This series is a joint initiative between the Brown Center for Biomedical Informatics , Brown Department of Psychiatry and Human Behavior Implementation Science Core , Rhode Island Quality Institute , and Advance Clinical and Translational Research (Advance-CTR) . Bridging Informatics and Implementation Science for Learning Health Systems (Center for Biomedical Informatics (BCBI)) Biology, Medicine, Public Health, Teaching & Learning, Training, Professional Development Nov 5 10:00am DSI & CCMB Data Wednesday: Marc Timme (Special Date and Time!) PLEASE NOTE THE SPECIAL DAY AND TIME OF THIS TALK! MARC TIMME Center for Advancing Electronics Dresden (CFAED), Technical University Dresden Human Activity Data for Understanding Collective Mobility Dynamics We share an increasing amount of data about our activities, including about where we are and where we move at which times when we work, sleep and eat, and with whom we communicate. While the entirety of the personal data raises a number of questions, predict, and potentially influence and control several essential collective dynamical data features of systems fundamental in daily life. In this talk, Timme will provide examples about how mobility and activity data may improve our understanding and design of ride-hailing and ride-sharing mobility systems (1, 2, 3) and at the same time support the prediction and mitigation strategies against natural phenomena such as the COVID-19 pandemics (4, 5). 1) Anomalous supply shortages from dynamic pricing in on-demand mobility 2) Topological universality of on-demand ride-sharing efficiency 3) Either fair or efficient – Hysterisis-induced inefficiencies in on-demand ride-hailing, in prep. 4) COVID-19 in (South) Africa 5) Agent-based activity and mobility simulations Biography Marc Timme, Prof. Dr. rer. nat., MA became TU Dresden Strategic Professor and Chair for Network Dynamics in 2017, bridging the cfaed with the Institute for Theoretical Physics. Marc is interested in building mathematical, conceptual, and algorithmic foundations towards an understanding of the collective nonlinear dynamics of networks, applications fields include biological and bio-inspired technical systems, future mobility, network economy & sustainability as well as network inverse problems of inference, design, and control. Enjoys swimming, hiking, philosophy – and science. DSI & CCMB Data Wednesday: Marc Timme (Special Date and Time!) Biology, Medicine, Public Health, Psychology & Cognitive Sciences Nov 4 12:00pm DSI’s Decoding Pandemic Data: Tom Trikalinos THOMAS TRIKALINKOS Professor of Health Services, Policy, and Practice; Director of the Center for Evidence Synthesis in Health at Brown University MODELING THE SARS-CoV-2 EPIDEMIC IN RHODE ISLAND Trikalinos will discuss local modeling of the SARS-CoV-2 epidemic with the distinct goals of inferring the current status of the epidemic, predicting a consequential resurgence, and optimizing health resource allocations. He will describe an ensemble of Bayesian epidemiological models to fit the time series of data testing, seroprevalence, surveys, hospitalizations (non-ICU and ICU admissions, census, discharges), and deaths (in and out of hospital). His research is in methods and applications of evidence synthesis and decision making under risk and ambiguity. BIOGRAPHY Tom Trikalinos studied medicine in Greece. Currently, he directs the Center for Evidence Synthesis in Health at Brown University (CESH). Faculty and staff work on novel methodologies for comparative effectiveness research, with emphasis on the steps of evidence synthesis (through systematic review and meta-analysis), and evidence contextualization (through decision-making and economic analysis). Trikalinos and his colleagues strive to modernize and optimize the processes of evidence-synthesis by porting methodologies from computer science and applied mathematics. His current research is on decision-making under deep uncertainty. Decoding Pandemic Data: A Series of Interactive Seminars This seminar series brings to Brown experts who are directly engaged in COVID-related data-driven research activities. Instead of the usual long-format lecture, each seminar will feature a 20 to 30–minute presentation by the speaker, followed by a moderated question and answer period. All seminars are virtual and open to the public. DSI’s Decoding Pandemic Data: Tom Trikalinos Nov 2 12:00pm - 1:00pm Statistics Seminar Series, Aleksandra Slavković, PhD Alekandra Slavković, PhD Professor, Departments of Statistics and Public Health Sciences Associate Dean for Graduate Education, Eberly College of Science Title: Valid statistical inference with privacy constraints Abstract: Limiting the disclosure risk of sensitive data and statistical analyses is a long-standing problem in statistics. Differential privacy (DP), provides a framework for a strong provable privacy protection against arbitrary adversaries while allowing the release of summary statistics and potentially synthetic data. DP methods/mechanisms require the introduction of randomness which reduces the utility of the results especially in finite samples. In this talk we give an overview of statistical data privacy and its links to DP. We also describe a general framework, built on sound statistical principles from measurement error, robustness and the likelihood-based inference, and give specific examples of how to achieve optimal statistical inference under formal privacy, focused on survey and census data. Bio: Aleksandra Slavković is Professor of Statistics and Public Health Sciences at Pennsylvania State University. Her research interests include statistical disclosure limitation, algebraic statistics, characterization of discrete distributions, and application of statistics to social sciences. For more information about the Statistics Seminar Series go here. Statistics Seminar Series, Aleksandra Slavković, PhD (Biostatistics) Biology, Medicine, Public Health, BioStatsSeminar, Graduate School, Postgraduate Education, Mathematics, Technology, Engineering, Research, Training, Professional Development Oct 30 1:30pm DSI Faculty for Faculty Research Talk: Parker VanValkenburgh PARKER VANVALKENBURGH Stanley J. Bernstein Assistant Professor of Social Sciences, Director of Brown Digital Archaeology Laboratory Interregional Archaeology and Big Data: Studying Ancient Landscapes at Scale Using the Geospatial Platform for Andean, Culture History and Archaeology (GeoPACHA) This is an opportunity for faculty to share current data science–related research activities with other faculty colleagues in an informal and interdisciplinary environment. More about this series on our website. Please register for this talk here. Faculty only, please. DSI Faculty for Faculty Research Talk: Parker VanValkenburgh Oct 28 4:00pm DSI & CCMB Data Wednesday: Kevin Knudson KEVIN KNUDSON University of Florida APPROXIMATE TRIANGULATIONS OF GRASSMANN MANIFOLDS The Grassmann manifolds G(k,n) of k-planes in n-dimensional Euclidean space are important spaces in a variety of topological contexts. However, if one asks for a specific triangulation of one of these spaces the result is usually disappointment. In this talk I will discuss a method to build what I call an approximate triangulation via persistent homology techniques. Several examples will be included. BIOGRAPHY Kevin Knudson is a professor in the Department of Mathematics at the University of Florida, where he currently serves as department chair. His primary mathematical interests lie in the area of applied topology with a special emphasis on multiparameter persistent homology and discrete Morse theory. Knudson is the co-host, with freelance writer Evelyn Lamb, of the My Favorite Theorem podcast. When not thinking about math or administrative tasks, he enjoys kayaking, playing the guitar (poorly), and cooking. Data Wednesdays The Data Science Initiative joins the Center for Computational and Molecular Biology (CCMB) every Wednesday afternoon, 4 – 5 pm during the academic year to present lecturers in various mathematical and statistical fields worldwide, as well as local researchers on Brown’s campus. The aim is to provide students, staff, faculty, and visitors with an introduction to current research topics in the fields of data science, mathematics, statistics and computer science. Please check our events page for more information on these and other events of interest. DSI & CCMB Data Wednesday: Kevin Knudson Oct 28 12:00pm DSI’s Decoding Pandemic Data: Bhramar Mukherjee BHRAMAR MUKHERJEE University of Michigan School of Public Health Predictions, Role of Interventions and the Crisis of Virus in India: A Data Science Call to Arms India, the world’s largest democracy with 1.34 billion people, has undergone five phases of lockdown from March 25-June 30. However, the virus curve has not turned the corner yet and the peak seems to be on the distant horizon. In this group presentation, we will discuss an extended SIR model for predicting case-counts in India. We will evaluate the national lockdown as a non-pharmaceutical intervention through various public health relevant metrics and illustrate that regional variation makes the concept of a national peak nebulous. We finally end with describing recent methodological innovations regarding incorporating selective and imperfect viral testing in an extended SEIR model for COVID-19. Biography Bhramar Mukherjee is John D. Kalbfleisch Collegiate Professor and Chair, Department of Biostatistics; Professor, Department of Epidemiology, University of Michigan (UM) School of Public Health; Research Professor and Core Faculty Member, Michigan Institute of Data Science (MIDAS), University of Michigan. She also serves as the Associate Director for Quantitative Data Sciences, The University of Michigan Rogel Cancer Center. She is the cohort development core co-director in the University of Michigan’s institution-wide Precision Health Initiative. Her research interests include statistical methods for analysis of electronic health records, studies of gene-environment interaction, Bayesian methods, shrinkage estimation, analysis of multiple pollutants. Collaborative areas are mainly in cancer, cardiovascular diseases, reproductive health, exposure science and environmental epidemiology. She has co-authored more than 250 publications in statistics, biostatistics, medicine and public health and is serving as PI on NSF and NIH funded methodology grants. She is the founding director of the University of Michigan’s summer institute on Big Data. Bhramar is a fellow of the American Statistical Association and the American Association for the Advancement of Science. She is the recipient of many awards for her scholarship, service and teaching at the University of Michigan and beyond. Including the Gertrude Cox Award, from the Washington Statistical Society in 2016 and most recently the L. Adrienne Cupples Award, from Boston University in 2020. She and her team have been modeling the pandemic in India for the last eight months. Decoding Pandemic Data: A Series of Interactive Seminars This seminar series brings to Brown experts who are directly engaged in COVID-related data-driven research activities. Instead of the usual long-format lecture, each seminar will feature a 20 to 30–minute presentation by the speaker, followed by a moderated question and answer period. All seminars are virtual and open to the public. DSI’s Decoding Pandemic Data: Bhramar Mukherjee Oct 26 12:00pm - 1:00pm Statistics Seminar Series, Jared Murray, PhD Jared Murray, PhD Assistant Professor Information, Risk and Operations Management University of Texas at Austin, McCombs School of Business Title: “Scaling Bayesian Probabilistic Record Linkage with Post-Hoc Blocking: An Application to the California Great Registers” Abstract: Probabilistic record linkage (PRL) is the process of determining which records in two databases correspond to the same underlying entity in the absence of a unique identifier. Bayesian solutions to this problem provide a powerful mechanism for propagating uncertainty due to uncertain links between records (via the posterior distribution). However, computational considerations severely limit the practical applicability of existing Bayesian approaches. We propose a new computational approach, providing both a fast algorithm for deriving point estimates of the linkage structure that properly account for one-to-one matching and a restricted MCMC algorithm that samples from an approximate posterior distribution. Our advances make it possible to perform Bayesian PRL for larger problems, and to assess the sensitivity of results to varying prior specifications. We demonstrate the methods on a subset of an OCR’d dataset, the California Great Registers, a collection of 57 million voter registrations from 1900 to 1968 that comprise the only panel data set of party registration collected before the advent of scientific surveys. Bio: Dr. Murray is an assistant professor of statistics in the Department of Information, Risk, and Operations Management at the McCombs School of Business, University of Texas in Austin. Until July of 2017 he was a visiting assistant professor in the Department of Statistics at Carnegie Mellon University. He completed his Ph.D. in Statistical Science at Duke University with Jerry Reiter. He also holds a B.S. in Interdisciplinary Mathematics (Statistics) from the University of New Hampshire and an M.S. in Statistical Science from Duke University. His current research interests are in developing flexible Bayesian models for heterogeneous and structured data, with applications to causal inference, record linkage, multiple imputation for missing data, and latent variable modeling. For more information about the Statistics Seminar Series go here. Statistics Seminar Series, Jared Murray, PhD (Biostatistics) Biology, Medicine, Public Health, BioStatsSeminar, Graduate School, Postgraduate Education, Mathematics, Technology, Engineering, Research, Training, Professional Development Oct 21 4:00pm DSI & CCMB Data Wednesday: Jessica Hekman JESSICA HEKMAN Computational Biologist, Broad Institute Canine Behavioral Genomics: tackling complex traits with citizen science Dogs have proven to be excellent models for diseases such as cancer. What about behavioral issues such as anxiety and aggression? Karlsson Lab at the Broad Institute of MIT and Harvard is taking a citizen science approach to identification of genetic variants underlying behavioral differences in dogs. Pet owners answer behavioral surveys about their dogs on a website, darwinsark.org, and submit saliva swabs for sequencing. Samples are sequenced using low-pass coverage followed by imputation to generate about 10 million variants, which are used with behavioral survey data in GWAS to identify associations between variants and traits. Current work in Karlsson Lab focuses on adapting existing tools to the new Canis familiaris reference sequence; developing a targeted sequencing panel to increase sequencing coverage over areas of the genome of particular interest; and building an imputation panel for structural variants, to allow future GWAS to include variants such as SINEs or copy number variants in addition to SNPs. Biography Jessica Hekman worked as a computer programmer for 12 years until deciding to go back to school to study canine behavior. She received her DVM/MS degrees at Tufts Cummings School of Veterinary Medicine in 2012. Her MS research, in Comparative Biomedical Sciences, used behavioral observation and salivary cortisol in identification and description of stress behaviors in healthy hospitalized dogs. She completed a shelter medicine specialty veterinary internship at the Maddie’s Shelter Medicine Program at the University of Florida in 2013. She completed her PhD at the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign in 2017, where she studied transcriptional differences in regions of the brain involved in the hormonal stress response between tame and aggressive foxes. She worked as a postdoctoral associate in Karlsson Laboratory at the Broad Institute of MIT and Harvard, studying canine behavioral genomics using a citizen science approach, and is now a Computational Biologist on the same team. DSI & CCMB Data Wednesday: Jessica Hekman Biology, Medicine, Public Health, Psychology & Cognitive Sciences Oct 21 1:00pm - 2:00pm Web 3.0 and the Future of Medicine Please join us on Wednesday, October 21st at 1PM EST for a presentation by Dr. Samantha Nazareth: “Web 3.0 and the Future of Medicine.” In this presentation, Dr. Nazareth will review the impact of the Internet of Healthcare Things (IoHT), artificial intelligence and machine learning, blockchain, and other technologies on the future of how we practice medicine. Dr. Samantha Nazareth (College ’04, Medicine ’08) is a gastroenterologist based in NYC who serves as Chief Medical Officer of a blockchain company and advises early-stage start-ups, venture capitalists, and corporations on clinical validation and use case perspectives for digital health solutions. *Location: Zoom meeting *Time: Wed. October 21st @ 1:00-2:00 EST ***RSVP using the Eventbrite link, and you will receive a confirmation email with the Zoom link*** Contact us at [email protected] or [email protected] with any questions. We hope to see you there! Web 3.0 and the Future of Medicine (Center for Digital Health) Biology, Medicine, Public Health, Entrepreneurship, Mathematics, Technology, Engineering Oct 21 12:00pm DSI’s Decoding Pandemic Data: Evan Ray EVAN RAY Research Assistant Professor, Department of Biostatistics and Epidemiology, Reich Lab, University of Massachusetts, Amherst THE COVID-19 FORECAST HUB: USING STATISTICS AND DATA SCIENCE TO SUPPORT DECISION MAKING IN A PANDEMIC With a variety of local, state, and even national COVID-19 related policies being implemented across the country and world, there is an opportunity to learn about the relative effectiveness of those policies, to guide policymaking during the current pandemic and beyond. However, accurately estimating policy effects is challenging. Beyond the issues that are faced for any policy, such as lack of randomization and difficulties in disentangling underlying time trends from a policy effect, evaluation of COVID-19 policies is complicated by additional challenges related to infectious disease dynamics and lags, lack of direct observation of key outcomes, and a multiplicity of interventions occurring on an accelerated time scale. This session will provide a high-level overview of the key designs and considerations when estimating policy effects, with the goal of helping attendees understand how to weigh the strengths and limitations of particular studies aiming to estimate the effects of policy interventions. Decoding Pandemic Data: A Series of Interactive Seminars This seminar series brings to Brown experts who are directly engaged in COVID-related data-driven research activities. Instead of the usual long-format lecture, each seminar will feature a 20 to 30–minute presentation by the speaker, followed by a moderated question and answer period. All seminars are virtual and open to the public. DSI’s Decoding Pandemic Data: Evan Ray Oct 19 12:00pm - 1:00pm Statistics Seminar Series, Mauricio Sadinle, PhD Mauricio Sadinle, PhD Assistant Professor, Department of Biostatistics University of Washington, School of Public Health Sequentially additive nonignorable missing data modelling using auxiliary marginal information Abstract: We study a class of missingness mechanisms, referred to as sequentially additive nonignorable, for modelling multivariate data with item nonresponse. These mechanisms explicitly allow the probability of nonresponse for each variable to depend on the value of that variable, thereby representing nonignorable missingness mechanisms. These missing data models are identified by making use of auxiliary information on marginal distributions, such as marginal probabilities for multivariate categorical variables or moments for numeric variables. We prove identification results and illustrate the use of these mechanisms in an application. Article: https://doi.org/10.1093/biomet/asz054 Bio: Mauricio Sadinle, PhD is an Assistant Professor in the Department of Biostatistics at the University of Washington. Previously, he was a Postdoctoral Associate in the Department of Statistical Science at Duke University and the National Institute of Statistical Sciences, working under the mentoring of Jerry Reiter. He completed his PhD in the Department of Statistics at Carnegie Mellon University, where his advisor was Stephen E. Fienberg. Dr. Sadinle’s undergraduate studies are from the National University of Colombia in Bogota, where he majored in statistics. Dr. Sadinle’s methodological research mainly focuses on 1. Record linkage techniques to combine datafiles that contain information on overlapping sets of individuals but lack unique identifiers and 2. Nonignorable missing data modeling, and the usage of auxiliary information to identify nonignorable missing data mechanisms. Dr. Sadinle also has experience working with social network models for valued ties, capture-recapture models in the context of human rights violations, and set-valued classifiers that output sets of plausible labels for ambiguous sample points. For more information about the Statistics Seminar Series go here. Statistics Seminar Series, Mauricio Sadinle, PhD (Biostatistics) Biology, Medicine, Public Health, BioStatsSeminar, Graduate School, Postgraduate Education, Mathematics, Technology, Engineering, Research, Training, Professional Development Oct 14 4:00pm DSI & CCMB Data Wednesday: Steven Strogatz STEVEN STROGATZ Jacob Gould Schurman Professor of Applied Mathematics, Cornell University Networks of oscillators that synchronize themselves Populations of coupled oscillators are pervasive in the natural world, from swarms of rhythmically flashing fireflies to groups of pacemaker cells in the heart. Some systems of oscillators have the amazing ability to synchronize themselves, such that all the oscillators end up firing in unison, no matter how disorganized they were at the start. In this (hopefully) entertaining Zoom talk, Prof. Strogatz will discuss the simplest mathematical model of a self-synchronizing system, the so-called Kuramoto model, and discuss how it behaves on different kinds of networks. Using techniques from nonlinear dynamics, numerical linear algebra, and computational algebraic geometry, we will discuss new bounds, conjectures, and open problems about the densest networks that do *not* always synchronize and the sparsest ones that do. This is joint work with Alex Townsend and Mike Stillman. Biography Steven Strogatz is an applied mathematician who works in the areas of nonlinear dynamics and complex systems, often on topics inspired by the curiosities of everyday life. He loves finding math in places where you’d least expect it—and then using it to illuminate life’s mysteries, big and small. For example: Why is it so hard to fall asleep a few hours before your regular bedtime? When you start chatting with a stranger on a plane, why is it so common to find that you have a mutual acquaintance? What can twisting a rubber band teach us about our DNA? An award-winning researcher, teacher, and communicator, Strogatz enjoys sharing the beauty of math through his books, essays, public lectures, and radio and television appearances. Data Wednesdays The Data Science Initiative joins the Center for Computational and Molecular Biology (CCMB) every Wednesday afternoon, 4 – 5 pm during the academic year to present lecturers in various mathematical and statistical fields worldwide, as well as local researchers on Brown’s campus. The aim is to provide students, staff, faculty, and visitors with an introduction to current research topics in the fields of data science, mathematics, statistics, and computer science. DSI & CCMB Data Wednesday: Steven Strogatz Mathematics, Technology, Engineering, Physical & Earth Sciences Oct 14 12:00pm - 1:30pm Introduction to REDCap Zoom Workshop Description Geared toward new or novice REDCap users, “Introduction to REDCap” answers “what” REDCap is, “why” you want to use it, and goes through the entire life cycle of a REDCap project – from initial setup to data entry and finally exporting your data. About the Instructor Sarah B. Andrea, PhD, MPH, is a research scientist with the Lifespan Biostatistics Core at Rhode Island Hospital. In addition to providing design and statistical oversight and mentorship, she also conducts research investigating strategies to mitigate race-, class-, and gender-based inequities in health throughout the life course. Dr. Andrea has been working with REDCap for five years. Register now! Introduction to REDCap (Advance-CTR) Biology, Medicine, Public Health, Research, Training, Professional Development Oct 13 3:00pm - 4:00pm Carney Conversations: Restorative Neurotechnology Zoom Join the Carney Institute for Brain Science for a conversation focused on neurotechnology featuring: Leigh Hochberg, professor of engineering at Brown University, director of the Center for Neurotechnology and Neurorecovery at Massachusetts General Hospital, and director of the VA RR&D Center for Neurorestoration and Neurotechnology David Borton, assistant professor of engineering at Brown and research biomedical engineer with the VA RR&D Center for Neurorestoration and Neurotechnology This event will be moderated by Diane Lipscombe, Reliance Dhirubhai Ambani Director of the Carney Institute, and Christopher Moore, associate director of the Carney Institute. Carney Conversations: Restorative Neurotechnology (Carney Institute for Brain Science) Biology, Medicine, Public Health, Psychology & Cognitive Sciences, Research Oct 8 2:00pm - 3:00pm DeepLabCut+ Users Group Meeting Zoom The Brown DeepLabCut+ Users Group, hosted by the Carney’s Center for Computational Brain Science, will hold its inaugural meeting Thursday, October 8, 2-3 p.m. The goal of the user group is to provide a local community for peer support and information sharing, and to guide future decisions on local resources, such as support for running DLC on Oscar. In this first meeting, moderated by Jason Ritt, Carney’s scientific director of quantitative neuroscience, and Maria Daigle, research assistant in the Department of Neuroscience, we will discuss the group’s organization, and invite all attendees to share any issues they are facing using DLC in their research, and/or troubleshooting advice. Going forward we expect to collect and share technical documentation, and provide a forum to match users needing help with local expertise. Please respond prior to the meeting to this short questionnaire. DeepLabCut+ Users Group Meeting (Carney Institute for Brain Science) Biology, Medicine, Public Health, CCBS, CTN, Psychology & Cognitive Sciences, Research Oct 8 12:00pm Translational Research Seminar Series Zoom Advance-K Scholar Sebhat Erquo shares his research and how the program helped him secure a VA Career Development Award: Sebhat Erqou, MD, PhD: “Improving Cardiovascular Care for Veterans Living with HIV” Laura Stroud, PhD: “Leveraging Advance-CTR Resources for the Stress, Trauma, and Resilience (STAR) T32 and COBRE Submissions” Register now! Translational Research Seminar Series (Advance-CTR) Biology, Medicine, Public Health, Research, Training, Professional Development Oct 7 4:00pm DSI & CCMB Data Wednesday: Joan Bruna Data Wednesdays The Data Science Initiative joins the Center for Computational and Molecular Biology (CCMB) every Wednesday afternoon, 4 – 5 pm during the academic year to present lecturers in various mathematical and statistical fields worldwide, as well as local researchers on Brown’s campus. The aim is to provide students, staff, faculty, and visitors with an introduction to current research topics in the fields of data science, mathematics, statistics, and computer science. JOAN BRUNA Assistant Professor of Computer Science, Data Science, and Mathematics, Courant Institute and Center for Data Science, New York University MATHEMATICAL ASPECTS OF NEURAL NETWORK LEARNING THROUGH MEASURE DYNAMICS High-dimensional learning remains an outstanding phenomena where experimental evidence outpaces our current mathematical understanding, mostly due to the recent empirical successes of Deep Learning algorithms. Neural Networks provide a rich yet intricate class of functions with statistical abilities to break the curse of dimensionality, and where physical priors can be tightly integrated into the architecture to improve sample efficiency. Despite these advantages, an outstanding theoretical challenge in these models is computational, ie providing an analysis that explains successful optimization and generalization in the face of existing worst-case computational hardness results. In this talk, I will focus on the framework that lifts parameter optimization to an appropriate measure space. I will cover existing results that guarantee global convergence of the resulting Wasserstein gradient flows, as well as recent results that study typical fluctuations of the dynamics around their mean field evolution. We will also discuss extensions of this framework beyond vanilla supervised learning, to account for symmetries in the function, as well as for competitive optimization. Biography Joan Bruna is an Assistant Professor at Courant Institute, New York University (NYU), in the Department of Computer Science, Department of Mathematics (affiliated), and the Center for Data Science, since Fall 2016. He belongs to the CILVR group and to the Math and Data groups. From 2015 to 2016, he was an Assistant Professor of Statistics at UC Berkeley and part of BAIR (Berkeley AI Research). Before that, he worked at FAIR (Facebook AI Research) in New York. Prior to that, he was a postdoctoral researcher at Courant Institute, NYU. He completed his Ph.D. in 2013 at Ecole Polytechnique, France. Before his Ph.D. he was a Research Engineer at a semi-conductor company, developing real-time video processing algorithms. Even before that, he did a MsC at Ecole Normale Superieure de Cachan in Applied Mathematics (MVA) and a BA and MS at UPC (Universitat Politecnica de Catalunya, Barcelona) in both Mathematics and Telecommunication Engineering. For his research contributions, he has been awarded a Sloan Research Fellowship (2018), an NSF CAREER Award (2019), and a best paper award at ICMLA (2018). DSI & CCMB Data Wednesday: Joan Bruna Oct 7 12:00pm DSI’s Decoding Pandemic Data: Elizabeth Stuart Decoding Pandemic Data: A Series of Interactive Seminars This seminar series brings to Brown experts who are directly engaged in COVID-related data-driven research activities. Instead of the usual long-format lecture, each seminar will feature a 20 to 30–minute presentation by the speaker, followed by a moderated question and answer period. All seminars are virtual and open to the public. ELIZABETH STUART Professor of Mental Health, Health Policy and Management, and Biostatistics and Associate Dean for Education, Johns Hopkins University THE NEED FOR, AND CHALLENGES OF, POLICY EVALUATION DURING THE COVID-19 PANDEMIC With a variety of local, state, and even national COVID-19 related policies being implemented across the country and world, there is an opportunity to learn about the relative effectiveness of those policies, to guide policymaking during the current pandemic and beyond. However, accurately estimating policy effects is challenging. Beyond the issues that are faced for any policy, such as lack of randomization and difficulties in disentangling underlying time trends from a policy effect, evaluation of COVID-19 policies is complicated by additional challenges related to infectious disease dynamics and lags, lack of direct observation of key outcomes, and a multiplicity of interventions occurring on an accelerated time scale. This session will provide a high-level overview of the key designs and considerations when estimating policy effects, with the goal of helping attendees understand how to weigh the strengths and limitations of particular studies aiming to estimate the effects of policy interventions. DSI’s Decoding Pandemic Data: Elizabeth Stuart Oct 5 12:00pm - 1:00pm Statistics Seminar Series, Stephanie Shipp, PhD Stephanie Shipp, PhD Deputy Director and Professor Social and Decision Analytics Division, Biocomplexity Institute University of Virginia Abstract Title: ”Ethical Principles and Data Science - Repurposing Administrative & Opportunity Data” The data revolution is changing the conduct of research as increasing amounts of internet-based and administrative data become accessible for use. At the same time, the new data landscape has created signiﬁcant tension around data privacy and conﬁdentiality. To bridge this gap, conversations about ethics, privacy, transparency, and reproducibility need to play a prominent role in both research partnerships and policymaking. At the research level, these conversations must be translated to action. We have created a comprehensive framework that forms the foundation to data science problem solving through defining rigorous, flexible, and iterative processes where learning at each stage informs the other stages. Embedded in this framework is close attention to ethics. The Institutional Review Board structure is well known in parts of academia and industry, but our public and local government partners are not always aware of these processes. The IRB framework could help them think about informed consent and privacy, as well as ethical considerations around the benefits and risks to individuals and communities under study. Through case studies, these principles are demonstrated. Keywords: conﬁdentiality, ethics, trust but verify, data science framework Brief Bio: Data scientists have the opportunity to use their skills to influence and improve society, especially vulnerable populations who need champions. Stephanie Shipp enthusiastically works with communities, policy makers and other data scientists who have also taken that challenge to heart. For more information about the Statistics Seminar Series go here. Statistics Seminar Series, Stephanie Shipp, PhD (Biostatistics) Biology, Medicine, Public Health, BioStatsSeminar, Graduate School, Postgraduate Education, Mathematics, Technology, Engineering, Research, Training, Professional Development Sep 28 12:00pm - 1:00pm Statistics Seminar Series, Despina Kontos, PhD Despina Kontos, PhD Associate Professor of Radiology Department of Radiology Perelman School of Public Health University of Pennsylvania Bio: Dr. Despina Kontos, Ph.D., is an Associate Professor of Radiology and director of the Computational Biomarker Imaging Group (CBIG) in the Center for Biomedical Image Computing and Analytics (CBICA) at the Radiology Department of the University of Pennsylvania. Dr. Kontos received her C.Eng. Diploma in Computer Engineering and Informatics from the University of Patras in Greece and her MSc and Ph.D. degrees in Computer Science from Temple University in Philadelphia. She completed her postdoctoral training in radiologic physics and biostatistics at the University of Pennsylvania. Her research interests focus on investigating the role of quantitative imaging as a predictive biomarker for guiding personalized clinical decisions in cancer screening, prognosis, and treatment. She is leading several research studies, funded both by the NIH/NCI and private foundations, to incorporate novel quantitative multi-modality imaging measures of breast tumor and tissue composition into cancer risk prediction models. Title: “Radiomic Biomarkers for Deciphering Tumor Heterogeneity” Abstract - Breast cancer is a heterogeneous disease, with known inter-tumor and intra-tumor heterogeneity. Established histopathologic prognostic biomarkers generally acquired from a tumor biopsy may be limited by sampling variation. Radiomics is an emerging field with the potential to leverage the whole tumor via non-invasive sampling afforded by medical imaging to extract high throughput, quantitative features for personalized tumor characterization. Identifying imaging phenotypes via radiomics analysis and understanding their relationship with prognostic markers and patient outcomes can allow for a non-invasive assessment of tumor heterogeneity. In this study, we identified and independently validated intrinsic radiomic phenotypes of tumor heterogeneity for invasive breast cancer that have independent prognostic value when predicting 10-year recurrence. The independent and additional prognostic value of imaging heterogeneity phenotypes suggests that radiomic phenotypes can provide a non-invasive characterization of tumor heterogeneity to augment personalized prognosis and treatment. For more information about the Statistics Seminar Series, click here. Statistics Seminar Series, Despina Kontos, PhD (Biostatistics) Biology, Medicine, Public Health, BioStatsSeminar, Graduate School, Postgraduate Education, Mathematics, Technology, Engineering, Research, Training, Professional Development Sep 23 12:00pm CANCELED: DSI’s Decoding Pandemic Data: A Series of Interactive Seminars TBD CANCELED: DSI’s Decoding Pandemic Data: A Series of Interactive Seminars Sep 14 12:00pm - 1:00pm Statistics Seminar Series, Jianqing Fan, PhD Jianqing Fan, PhD, Professor of Statistics Frederick L. Moore ’18 Professor of Finance Princeton University Title: Communication—Efficient Accurate Statistical Estimation Abstract: When the data are stored in a distributed manner, direct application of traditional statistical inference procedures is often prohibitive due to communication cost and privacy concerns. This paper develops and investigates two Communication-Efficient Accurate Statistical Estimators (CEASE), implemented through iterative algorithms for distributed optimization. In each iteration, node machines carry out computation in parallel and communicates with the central processor, which then broadcasts aggregated gradient vector to node machines for new updates. The algorithms adapt to the similarity among loss functions on node machines, and converge rapidly when each node machine has large enough sample size. Moreover, they do not require good initialization and enjoy linear converge guarantees under general conditions. The contraction rate of optimization errors is derived explicitly, with dependence on the local sample size unveiled. In addition, the improved statistical accuracy per iteration is derived. By regarding the proposed method as a multi-step statistical estimator, we show that statistical efficiency can be achieved infinite steps in typical statistical applications. In addition, we give the conditions under which one-step CEASE estimator is statistically efficient. Extensive numerical experiments on both synthetic and real data validate the theoretical results and demonstrate the superior performance of our algorithms. (Joint work with Yongyi Guo and Kaizheng Wang) For more information about the Statistics Seminar Series, click here Statistics Seminar Series, Jianqing Fan, PhD (Biostatistics) Biology, Medicine, Public Health, BioStatsSeminar, Graduate School, Postgraduate Education, Mathematics, Technology, Engineering, Research, Training, Professional Development Sep 10 12:00pm Translational Research Seminar Series Zoom This month’s Translational Research Seminar features talks from two of our Pilot Project Awardee teams: Valentin Antoci, MD, PhD: “Smart Implant Modifications Can Drive Biology and Function” Adam Olszewski, MD, “Molecular Tools for Diagnosis and Risk Prediction of Central Nervous System Involvement in Non-Hodgkin Lymphoma” Register now! Translational Research Seminar Series (Advance-CTR) Biology, Medicine, Public Health, Research, Training, Professional Development Sep 10 10:00am - 11:00am Data Fluency Certificate Info Session The undergraduate Certificate in Data Fluency is for students who wish to gain fluency and facility with the tools of data analysis and its conceptual framework. The program is designed to provide fundamental conceptual knowledge and technical skills, to students with a range of intellectual backgrounds and concentrations, while emphasizing a critical liberal learning perspective. Find out more about the certificate in this information and Q & A session, hosted by professor Linda Clark of DSI and the Sheridan Center. Data Fluency Certificate Info Session Education, Teaching, Instruction, Social Sciences Sep 9 12:00pm - 1:30pm Advance-CTR REDCap Workshop Zoom Workshop Description Geared toward new or novice REDCap users, this class answers “what” REDCap is, “why” you want to use it, and goes through the entire life cycle of a REDCap project – from initial setup to data entry and finally exporting your data. About the Instructor Sarah B. Andrea, PhD, MPH, is a research scientist with the Lifespan Biostatistics Core at Rhode Island Hospital. In addition to providing design and statistical oversight and mentorship, she also conducts research investigating strategies to mitigate race-, class-, and gender-based inequities in health throughout the life course. Dr. Andrea has been working with REDCap for five years. Register now! Advance-CTR REDCap Workshop (Advance-CTR) Biology, Medicine, Public Health, Research, Training, Professional Development Aug 18 3:00pm - 4:00pm Carney Conversations: Computational approaches for EEG/MEG brain recordings Zoom Join the Carney Institute for Brain Science for a conversation about how traditional brain recording techniques (MEG/EEG) are coming together with new computational tools to inform new directions for brain science research. This event will be moderated by Diane Lipscombe, Reliance Dhirubhai Ambani Director of the Carney Institute, and Christopher Moore, associate director of the Carney Institute, and it will feature Stephanie Jones, associate professor of neuroscience at Brown University, and Frederike Petzschner, who will join the Carney Institute this year as a fellow. Carney Conversations: Computational approaches for EEG/MEG brain recordings (Carney Institute for Brain Science) Biology, Medicine, Public Health, CCBS, Psychology & Cognitive Sciences, Research Aug 11 3:00pm - 4:00pm Carney Innovation Awards Information Session for Faculty Zoom (Participants must log in with their Brown accounts) Join the Carney Institute for an information session and Q&A about the 2020 call for applications for the institute’s Innovation Awards in Brain Science. The purpose of these awards is to launch innovative projects that have great potential to advance science and benefit society in ways that have major and lasting impact. The Innovation Awards in Brain Science are open to all Brown faculty members conducting brain science research at Brown University or its affiliated hospitals. Applications are due August 31, 2020. Carney Innovation Awards Information Session for Faculty (Carney Institute for Brain Science) Biology, Medicine, Public Health, Psychology & Cognitive Sciences, Research Jul 31 1:30pm DSI Faculty for Faculty Research Talk: Jesse M. Shapiro, Economics Eventbrite Link Mass Polarization in the US and Elsewhere Jesse Shapiro, Eastman Professor of Political Economy Shapiro will discuss trends in mass political polarization across demographic groups within the US and across different countries and will discuss possible causes of these trends in light of the evidence. Please note this talk is restricted to Brown Faculty only. An event link will be sent to registered participants before the talk. To register, please visit the DSI Eventbrite page. DSI Faculty for Faculty Research Talk: Jesse M. Shapiro, Economics Jul 17 1:30pm DSI Faculty for Faculty Research Talk: Jonathan Pober This series of faculty for faculty talks is an opportunity for faculty to share current data science–related research activities with other faculty colleagues in an informal environment. The talks will be presented at a very general level, to stimulate discussion and interdisciplinary interchange of ideas. Our goal is to provide a networking venue that promotes research collaborations between faculty across all disciplines; awareness of the breadth of data science–related research at Brown; and a forum for faculty to share their expertise with one another. Participation is limited to Brown faculty members. Please click here to register, and the Zoom link will be sent to you before the event. Jonathan Pober, Department of Physics: Mapping the Universe with Radio Astronomy and Big Data The field of “21 cm cosmology” is one with a simple premise: all the neutral hydrogen gas in the Universe can be traced through its unique radio wave emission (the “21 centimeter line”). Mapping the hydrogen in the Universe in this way offers an unparalleled probe of cosmic evolution, the formation of the first stars and galaxies, and the make-up of the Universe. However, the hydrogen signal is swamped by other radio emission – both human-generated and astrophysical – and, to date, it has not been successfully measured. Extracting the signal from these contaminants will require that the radio telescopes performing the observations are modeled with a precision never before achieved in radio astronomy. In this presentation, I will highlight what a successful 21 cm cosmology experiment / analysis pipeline might look like, with an emphasis on the multiple data science challenges that arise as we attempt to make this measurement. Register here. DSI Faculty for Faculty Research Talk: Jonathan Pober Jun 30 3:30pm - 4:30pm Carney Conversations: How emotions can foster disease prevention behaviors during the COVID-19 pandemic Zoom Join the Carney Institute for Brain Science for a conversation on how emotions can foster disease prevention behaviors during the COVID-19 pandemic with Oriel FeldmanHall, assistant professor of cognitive, linguistic and psychological sciences at Brown University. This event will be moderated by Diane Lipscombe, Reliance Dhirubhai Ambani Director of the Carney Institute, and Christopher Moore, associate director of the Carney Institute. Carney Conversations: How emotions can foster disease prevention behaviors during the COVID-19 pandemic (Carney Institute for Brain Science) Biology, Medicine, Public Health, Psychology & Cognitive Sciences, Research Jun 29 All Day Brown Unconference Zoom The first Brown Unconference is a remote gathering which provides an opportunity for researchers across campus to come together and explore advances in computational sciences at the intersection of data science and AI with other sciences including biology, physics, chemistry, engineering, neuroscience and cognitive science. Our goal is to foster an accessible and welcoming environment open to members of the Brown community across all disciplines and levels of expertise. We want to celebrate Brown’s uniqueness and help foster collaborations across disciplines. Students and postdocs are especially encouraged to present their research to the broader community. The Unconference will include opportunities to meet researchers across scientific interests, hear from invited speakers, and receive feedback from diverse points of view. We encourage submissions at all points of the scientific process. Important Dates Abstract Submission Deadline: June 15, 2020 Conference: June 29-30, 2020 Schedule We will host the following events distributed across the two days of the conference. Please find instructions on how to get involved in the next section. The detailed schedule will be published closer to the conference. Lightning talks: 2-3 minute talks (2 slides max) – for those who may be in the early stages of their research, to introduce themselves, share their interests, pitch projects, or simply network with other members of the conference. Short talks: 12 minute talks – for those ready to present their research in an informal setup. Presented research can be in progress and data can be preliminary. Networking & Mind Match: Tailored social and networking programming. The unconference is a safe space to share ideas so feel free to send work in progress. Members of the Brown community from all academic backgrounds are encouraged to submit an abstract! Register to Attend Register to attend the conference virtually. By registering, you will receive a notification when we announce the schedule with links to the Crowdcast pages. Submit an Abstract If you’re interested in talking about your research, please submit an abstract. Brown Unconference Biology, Medicine, Public Health, CCBS, Psychology & Cognitive Sciences, Research Jun 26 1:30pm DSI Faculty for Faculty Research Talk Inaugural DSI Faculty for Faculty Research Talk This is an opportunity for faculty to share current data science–related research activities with other faculty colleagues in an informal and interdisciplinary environment. More about this series on our website. Please register for this event by Friday, June 26, 8 am. And please note, this presentation/discussion is restricted to faculty members. Roberta DeVito, DSI and Biostatistics Reproducibility in the Big-Data Era Researchers are facing the urgent challenge of efficiently dealing with a large amount of experimental data. These big and high-throughput data are a rich, complex, and diverse collection of high-dimensional data sets and have the potential to lead to discoveries, advances, and knowledge that were never accessible before via compelling statistical analysis. With these different sources of big-data sets, new statistical analyses that integrate multiple, somewhat diverse studies, are crucial to understand and gain knowledge in high-dimensional statistical research. In this talk, I will talk about my research on both theoretical and computational methods for dimension reduction allowing for the joint analysis of multiple high-throughput experiments, simultaneously achieving two goals: a) to capture common component(s) across studies and b) to estimate the specificness that is unique to each study. When considering multiple studies, some measurements reappear across studies, and the true signal is more likely to be reproducible among the studies. However, high throughput experiments display both artifactual and intrinsic sources of variation. I will then present several different applications: microarray gene expression in cancer, nutritional epidemiological data in seven different countries, 12 brain regions in tissue studies. DSI Faculty for Faculty Research Talk Jun 23 3:00pm - 4:00pm Carney SciCom Workshop: Interactive scientific posters Zoom Carney SciCom is a two-part workshop for Brown University trainees focused on science communication skills. The goal of these workshops is to empower trainees to share their research with broad and diverse audiences. In this session, participants will learn best practices for designing interactive scientific posters. Torrey Truszkowski, research compliance manager in the Office of Research Integrity at Brown, will demonstrate how to design interactive, dynamic scientific posters. Sara Feijo, communications and outreach manager at the Carney Institute for Brain Science, will share tips for presenting posters at conferences. Design experience is not required for this workshop. Note: This is the second workshop in the series. The first workshop, entitled “Carney SciCom Workshop: Scientific poster design,” will be held on Tuesday, June 16. Carney SciCom Workshop: Interactive scientific posters (Carney Institute for Brain Science) Jun 19 12:00pm DSI COVID-19 Data Tutorial III: Pandas and the Johns Hopkins CSSE COVID-19 Data Virtual COVID-19 DATA TUTORIAL III We’ll look at COVID-19 data from the COVID Tracking Project and walk through statistical techniques for using the data to infer how many new infections are being generated by the average infectious person. Minimal prerequisite knowledge will be assumed, and all are welcome. Please register for the event below! Please visit our GitHub page and also Babylon House for more information on these events. Hosted by Samuel Watson, Dir. of Graduate Studies, Data Science Initiative. Organized by the Data Science Initiative DSI COVID-19 Data Tutorial III: Pandas and the Johns Hopkins CSSE COVID-19 Data Jun 16 3:00pm - 4:30pm Carney SciCom Workshop: Scientific poster design Zoom Carney SciCom is a two-part workshop for Brown University trainees focused on science communication skills. The goal of these workshops is to empower trainees to share their research with broad and diverse audiences. In this session, participants will learn best practices for designing informative and engaging scientific posters. Andrew Creamer, Brown University Library’s scientific data management specialist, and Kelsey Sawyer, biomedical life sciences librarian, will discuss scientific criteria for successful posters, and share resources for designing conference posters. Jaci DaCosta, art director in the Office of University Communications, will discuss design principles — including typography, contrast and accessibility — and demonstrate how to adapt designs for multimedia. DaCosta will develop a poster template, which will be shared with participants following the workshop. Design experience is not required for this workshop. However, it is recommended that participants familiarize themselves with Adobe InDesign. Introductory courses to the Adobe Creative Suite are available through Brown’s LinkedIn Learning in Workday. RSVP is required. The second workshop in this series, entitled “Carney SciCom Workshop: Interactive scientific posters,” will be held on June 23. Carney SciCom Workshop: Scientific poster design (Carney Institute for Brain Science) Jun 12 8:45am - 11:40am Rhode Island IDeA Symposium Join us for this year’s annual symposium on June 11-12, 2020, which showcases research from Rhode Island’s COBRE, INBRE, ECHO, and CTR IDeA programs. This year, two keynote speakers will present research around the theme of aging: John Sedivy, PhD, “Retrotransposon Activation as a Mechanism of Age-associated Sterile Inflammation: Repurposing HIV Drugs to Treat Chronic Diseases of Aging” Reisa Sperling, MD: “Can We Predict and Treat Alzheimer’s Disease a Decade before Dementia? (and Why We Must!)” Nine investigators from RI’s IDeA programs will also deliver science talks. See the full agenda or register on the conference website: sites.brown.edu/ideari. Rhode Island IDeA Symposium (Advance-CTR) Biology, Medicine, Public Health, Research, Training, Professional Development Jun 11 1:00pm - 3:35pm Rhode Island IDeA Symposium Join us for this year’s annual symposium, on June 11-12, 2020, which showcases research from Rhode Island’s COBRE, INBRE, ECHO, and CTR IDeA programs. This year, two keynote speakers will present research around the theme of aging: John Sedivy, PhD, “Retrotransposon Activation as a Mechanism of Age-associated Sterile Inflammation: Repurposing HIV Drugs to Treat Chronic Diseases of Aging” Reisa Sperling, MD: “Can We Predict and Treat Alzheimer’s Disease a Decade before Dementia? (and Why We Must!)” Nine investigators from RI’s IDeA programs will also deliver science talks. See the full agenda or register on the conference website: sites.brown.edu/ideari. Rhode Island IDeA Symposium (Advance-CTR) Biology, Medicine, Public Health, Research, Training, Professional Development Jun 5 1:00pm - 2:00pm Carney Conversations: Humans to robots Zoom Join the Carney Institute for Brain Science for a conversation about the future of robotics and ethical concerns with Stefanie Tellex, associate professor of computer science at Brown University. This event will be moderated by Diane Lipscombe, Reliance Dhirubhai Ambani Director of the Carney Institute, and Christopher Moore, associate director of the Carney Institute. Carney Conversations: Humans to robots (Carney Institute for Brain Science) Jun 5 12:00pm COVID-19 Data Tutorial II Join us Friday, June 5 at 12 PM for a videoconference discussion of COVID-19 data. We will also use a chat system called Babylon House for facilitating the discussion. You can go ahead and join that classroom here: https://babylon.house/projects/9282c066-ff77-46d2-8a63-394af6ff5105/join If you’d like a very short introduction to using Babylon House as a meeting participant, check out this video: https://youtu.be/RZB2W1R3t3c Last time, we explored publicly available data sets and discussed some of the challenges inherent in drawing inferences and making predictions. You can find information from that session (including a Jupyter notebook) here: https://browndsi.github.io/covid19/ This time we’ll explore methods for estimating the crucially important quantity Rₜ (the average number of new infections generated by each infectious individual, at time t). The discussion will be accessible, introducing the data analysis tools we’ll use along the way. Hosted by Samuel Watson, Director of Graduate Studies, Data Science Initiative. Please sign up with the ‘Register Here’ link above to indicate that you are participating. COVID-19 Data Tutorial II Jun 1 10:00am Introduction to Programming, Web Scraping, and Data Cleaning in Python Four-week workshop on the Python programming language, web scraping, and data cleaning for increasing data fluency of graduate and post-graduate students. Weekdays of June 1-26, from 10am to 3pm The Center for Computation and Visualization (CCV) is offering an introductory workshop on the Python programming language, web scraping, and data cleaning, targeted toward graduate students and postdocs in the humanities and social sciences. Python is a versatile computer programming language, useful in many contexts including collecting, cleaning, analyzing, and visualizing data. No experience with coding is required. Faculty and staff members can register if space is available. In the first two weeks of the workshop, we will learn Python basics with topics covering: container types such as variables, lists, dictionaries, and arrays, control flow techniques such as if and while statements, for loops, and list comprehensions, functions to manipulate data, simple speed and memory profiling, and visualizations using matplotlib. In the third week, we will use web scraping to collect data from the web. Web scraping allows us to automate data collection from websites of varying underlying formats. Attendees will learn topics covering: the basics of web page structures (HTML, CSS), inspecting the page source underlying a web page using developer tools in Google Chrome, the fundamentals of scraping several different web pages of varying complexity, controlling crawl rates and monitoring the scraping loop, and scraping a multi-page web query into a dataframe. In the fourth week, attendees will learn to clean and process the scraped data using the pandas library. Topics covered will be: reading in and manipulating the scraped data from csv and excel files, and sql databases, filtering and modifying the scraped data, visualizing the data, and calculating summary statistics. The workshop runs June 1-26. Each day will consist of a morning lecture (10am-noon), lunch, and hands-on exercises (1pm-3pm). Participants will have the opportunity to work on their own data-intensive projects with help from CCV data scientists during the third and fourth weeks. The workshop is supported by the Data Science Initiative’s NSF-TRIPODS grant. The workshop runs weekdays from June 1 - 26, from 10am to 3pm. Space is limited to 20 people. Register here. Introduction to Programming, Web Scraping, and Data Cleaning in Python (Center for Computation and Visualization (CCV)) May 29 12:00pm POSTPONED: COVID-19 Data Tutorial Now Friday, June 5! Join us at 12 PM for a videoconference discussion of COVID-19 data. We will also use a chat system called Babylon House for facilitating the discussion. You can go ahead and join that classroom here: https://babylon.house/projects/9282c066-ff77-46d2-8a63-394af6ff5105/join If you’d like a very short introduction to using Babylon House as a meeting participant, check out this video: https://youtu.be/RZB2W1R3t3c Last time, we explored publicly available data sets and discussed some of the challenges inherent in drawing inferences and making predictions. You can find information from that session (including a Jupyter notebook) here: https://browndsi.github.io/covid19/ This time we’ll explore methods for estimating the crucially important quantity Rₜ (the average number of new infections generated by each infectious individual, at time t). The discussion will be accessible, introducing the data analysis tools we’ll use along the way. Hosted by Samuel Watson, Director of Graduate Studies, Data Science Initiative. Please sign up with the ‘Register Here’ link above to indicate that you are participating. POSTPONED: COVID-19 Data Tutorial Biology, Medicine, Public Health, Mathematics, Technology, Engineering, Social Sciences, Teaching & Learning May 28 12:00pm Data Gymnasia Summer Sessions Starting on Thursday, May 28 at 12 PM noon Eastern Time, we’ll begin holding live sessions to review content from Data Gymnasia: https://mathigon.org/data-gymnasia These sessions are intended to help incoming DSI students prepare for the program, but they are open to anyone who is interested in the learning content. They are free of charge. For the first session, we will treat the first four sections of the Data Science Pipeline course: https://mathigon.org/course/intro-data-pipeline/introduction We recommend that you work through those sections prior to class, but you are welcome to participate whether you do or not. If you don’t have experience with Python, or if you want a refresher, you might also complete some of the sections in the Intro to Python course: https://mathigon.org/course/programming-in-python/introduction The class session will be facilitated using Babylon House: https://babylon.house/projects/a5543fce-71d1-4256-89cd-70845ee2cafb/join You can see a video on how Babylon House works on the landing page (https://babylon.house), and you can see a shorter student guide at https://youtu.be/RZB2W1R3t3c Hosted by Samuel Watson, Director of Graduate Studies, Data Science Initiative. Please sign up with the ‘Register Here’ link above to indicate that you are participating. Data Gymnasia Summer Sessions May 27 12:00pm Babylon House Webinar Babylon House Webinar Babylon House is a messaging web app for engaging all of your students conversationally during classtime. Student messages are intelligently grouped into columns, and instructors or TAs can modify the grouping and respond by group or individually. This tool has been used effectively by Brown instructors to keep students actively learning during videoconference classes. It’s easy to set up and get started, since it uses Google for authentication. You can run your whole class through it using pre-scripted Lessons, or just use it improvisationally for its conversation features. On Wednesday, May 27 at 12 PM noon, we’ll have a live Zoom+BH session to walk through some of the features, answer any questions you might have, and help get you up and running with Babylon House. Babylon House link: https://babylon.house/projects/18694f85-6861-427d-af2c-6a2cce646fa4/join https://babylon.house Hosted by Samuel Watson, Director of Graduate Studies, Data Science Initiative. Please sign up with the ‘Register Here’ link above to indicate that you are participating. Babylon House Webinar May 26 12:00pm Carney Methods Meetup: Dynamical Models of Neural Systems Carney Methods Meetups Join the Carney Institute for a weekly informal gathering on methods for brain science, featuring rotating topics selected by you, the Brown brain science community! Please vote for next week’s topic using this form. This week’s topic is “Dynamical Models of Neural Systems”, presented by Bjorn Sandstede, Ph.D. Bjorn is a Professor of Applied Mathematics and is the Director of the Data Science Initiative. Please note, this workshop requires you to be logged into Zoom through your Brown account. Click to learn more. Carney Methods Meetup: Dynamical Models of Neural Systems (Carney Institute for Brain Science) Biology, Medicine, Public Health, CCBS, Graduate School, Postgraduate Education, Psychology & Cognitive Sciences, Research May 22 12:00pm Natalie Dean: COVID-19 Vaccine Evaluation Natalie Dean, University of Florida In this talk, I provide an overview of the evaluation of candidate COVID-19 vaccines, with a focus on the design of large Phase III efficacy trials. In these trials, thousands of participants are individually randomized to investigational vaccine or placebo control. I discuss our group’s ongoing research into adaptive and flexible trial strategies tailored to the outbreak context, and describe how this work is influencing thinking about COVID-19 vaccine efficacy trials. Emphasis is on smart placement of clinical trial sites, which can be informed both by surveillance and ensemble forecast modeling, and on multi-country strategies that are robust to unpredictable epidemic dynamics. This event is part of the DSI’s Decoding Pandemic Data: A Series of Interactive Seminars. More about Natalie Dean Natalie Dean: COVID-19 Vaccine Evaluation Biology, Medicine, Public Health May 20 12:00pm Nicholas Jewell: The Exponential Power of Now (and Yesterday?) Nicholas Jewell, London School of Hygiene & Tropical Medicine; University of California, Berkeley The COVID-19 pandemic has allowed us to be reacquainted with properties of exponential growth and the role of epidemiological and statistical modeling as tools for policy. Dr. Jewell will briefly discuss some of these issues and point to the current statistical issues/studies as we try to look forward. This event is part of the DSI’s Decoding Pandemic Data: A Series of Interactive Seminars. More about Nicholas Jewell The Huge Cost of Waiting to Contain the Pandemic, New York Times, by Britta L. Jewell and Nicholas P. Jewell Nicholas Jewell: The Exponential Power of Now (and Yesterday?) Biology, Medicine, Public Health May 18 4:00pm - 5:00pm Carney Conversations: What can drunk flies tell us about addiction? Zoom Join the Carney Institute for Brain Science for a conversation about the roots of addiction with Karla Kaun, Robert and Nancy Carney Assistant Professor of Neuroscience at Brown University. This event will be moderated by Diane Lipscombe, Reliance Dhirubhai Ambani Director of the Carney Institute, and Christopher Moore, Carney’s associate director. Carney Conversations: What can drunk flies tell us about addiction? (Carney Institute for Brain Science) May 12 3:30pm - 4:30pm Carney Conversations: What are they thinking? Decision making and the adolescent brain Zoom Join the Carney Institute for Brain Science for a conversation about cognitive development in adolescence with Beatriz Luna, Staunton Professor of Psychiatry and Pediatrics at the University of Pittsburgh. This event will be moderated by Diane Lipscombe, Reliance Dhirubhai Ambani Director of the Carney Institute, and Christopher Moore, Carney’s associate director. Carney Conversations: What are they thinking? Decision making and the adolescent brain (Carney Institute for Brain Science) May 8 12:00pm The COVID-19 Collaboration Platform Elizabeth Ogburn, Johns Hopkins A collaboration platform to facilitate aggregating evidence across COVID-19 RCTs The COVID-19 Collaboration Platform (CovidCP; https://covidcp.org) is a repository of RCT protocols whose PIs are open to collaborating with new teams of researchers in order to get high-quality evidence to clinicians quickly. Hundreds of COVID-19 interventional trials are currently registered on clinicaltrials.gov—and that number is growing quickly. Only a few of them have been centrally coordinated or are being run as multi-site trials, despite the fact that many of them are designed to answer similar questions. Sharing protocols and aggregating evidence across study sites could dramatically increase their efficiency and precision, getting answers to clinicians faster and more reliably. Furthermore, local outbreaks may taper off before individual institutions are able to enroll their target sample size. Notably, this has happened in China, where many trials are effectively suspended with incomplete enrollment and inconclusive results. If protocols are public and open for collaboration, an RCT can be picked up in different regions as the outbreak moves across the country. Many platforms currently exist for tracking COVID-19 trials and for sharing COVID-19 observational data, but none of them facilitate the formation of collaborations at all stages of research, and none of the existing data-sharing platforms target RCTs. The COVID-19 Collaboration Platform fills this gap by bringing together researchers who are interested in the same clinical questions at all stages of research. PIs who submit their protocols are encouraged and provided with support to: share protocols with other research teams to create a multi-site collaborative protocol; ad new sites under an existing PI and IRB; share anonymized interim and/or final data with other sites that, independently, choose to operate a trial under a similar protocol; and aggregate data and evidence across all sites studying similar interventions. The COVID-19 Collaboration Platform May 1 12:00pm CANCELED: DSCoV: Large Scale Deep Learning 164 Angell Street Deep Learning provides recent and powerful ways to automate certain high level behaviors such as driving a car. How to create this new kind of real-world AI systems using massive amount of data? We will first review some data collection and labeling methods, computing infrastructures and softwares, statistical models and optimization algorithms. We will then present some coding principles and an experimental interface based on Python and Pytorch to sustain the development of these systems. Instructor: Remi Cadene CANCELED: DSCoV: Large Scale Deep Learning Apr 28 3:30pm - 4:30pm Carney Conversations: How does SARS-CoV-2 target the sense of smell? Zoom Join the Carney Institute for Brain Science for a conversation about the link between loss of smell and COVID-19 with Brown University professors Gilad Barnea and Alexander Fleischmann, who are experts in olfaction. This event will be moderated by Diane Lipscombe, Reliance Dhirubhai Ambani director of the Carney Institute, and Christopher Moore, Carney’s associate director. Carney Conversations: How does SARS-CoV-2 target the sense of smell? (Carney Institute for Brain Science) Apr 21 4:00pm COVID-19 Data Discussion Join us at 4 PM on Tuesday, April 21 for a videoconference discussion of COVID-19 data, using the following Zoom link: https://brown.zoom.us/j/91357528021 We will also use a chat system called Babylon House for facilitating the discussion. You can go ahead and join that classroom here: https://babylon.house/projects/9282c066-ff77-46d2-8a63-394af6ff5105/join We will explore publicly available data sets and discuss some of the challenges inherent in drawing inferences and making predictions. The discussion will be accessible, introducing the data analysis tools we’ll use along the way. Hosted by Samuel Watson, the Director of Graduate Studies in the Data Science Initiative. Sign up here (optional): https://airtable.com/shrCltRlXys7sMZxE COVID-19 Data Discussion Apr 17 12:00pm - 1:00pm Talk: Costs and Benefits of Invariant Representation Learning (Han Zhao, Carnegie Mellon University) Watson Center for Information Technology (CIT) The success of supervised machine learning in recent years crucially hinges on the availability of large-scale and unbiased data, which is often time-consuming and expensive to collect. Recent advances in deep learning focus on learning invariant representations that have found abundant applications in both domain adaptation and algorithmic fairness. However, it is not clear what price we have to pay in terms of task utility for such universal representations. In this talk, I will discuss my recent work on understanding and learning invariant representations. In the first part, I will focus on understanding the costs of existing invariant representations by characterizing a fundamental tradeoff between invariance and utility. In particular, I will use domain adaptation as an example to both theoretically and empirically show such tradeoff in achieving small joint generalization error. This result also implies an inherent tradeoff between fairness and utility in both classification and regression settings. In the second part of the talk, I will focus on designing learning algorithms to escape the existing tradeoff and to utilize the benefits of invariant representations. I will show how the algorithm can be used to guarantee equalized treatment of individuals between groups, and discuss what additional problem structure it requires to permit efficient domain adaptation through learning invariant representations. Han Zhao is a PhD candidate at the Machine Learning Department, Carnegie Mellon University, advised by Geoffrey J. Gordon. Before coming to CMU, he obtained his BEng degree in Computer Science from Tsinghua University (honored as a Distinguished Graduate) and MMath degree in mathematics from the University of Waterloo (honored with the Alumni Gold Medal Award). He has also spent time at Huawei Noah’s Ark Lab, Baidu Research, Microsoft Research, and the D. E. Shaw Group. His research interests are broadly in machine learning, with a focus on invariant representation learning and tractable probabilistic reasoning. Host: Professor Stephen Bach Talk: Costs and Benefits of Invariant Representation Learning (Han Zhao, Carnegie Mellon University) Apr 15 4:00pm CANCELED: Data Wednesday: Kevin Knudson (University of Florida) 164 Angell Street Title and abstract TBA. CANCELED: Data Wednesday: Kevin Knudson (University of Florida) Apr 8 4:00pm CANCELED: Data Wednesday: Brittany Fasy (Montana State University) 164 Angell Street Title and abstract TBA. CANCELED: Data Wednesday: Brittany Fasy (Montana State University) Apr 1 4:00pm CANCELED: Data Wednesday: Stratos Idreos (Harvard University) 164 Angell Street Title and abstract TBA. This event has been rescheduled from 2/12 to 4/01. CANCELED: Data Wednesday: Stratos Idreos (Harvard University) Mar 27 12:00pm CANCELED: DSCoV Workshop: Scientific visualization in Unity Engine 164 Angell Street Nowadays the technology to create videogames and impressive photorealistic scenes is for everyone to reach. Frameworks such as Unity 3D Engine are easy to understand and work with or without any coding experience. So Why not using it to visualize data? You will learn basics on game objects components, UI design and concepts of volume rendering. Just bring your laptop with Unity Engine installed. CANCELED: DSCoV Workshop: Scientific visualization in Unity Engine Mar 20 12:00pm - 1:00pm Talk: Human Compatible: Making Decisions From Human Knowledge and Preferences (Rupert Freeman, Microsoft Research) Watson Center for Information Technology (CIT) Even in the age of big data and machine learning, human knowledge and preferences still play a large part in decision making. For some tasks, such as predicting complex events like recessions or global conflicts, human input remains a crucial component, either in a standalone capacity or as a complement to algorithms and statistical models. In other cases, a decision maker is tasked with utilizing human preferences to, for example, make a popular decision over an unpopular one. However, while often useful, eliciting data from humans poses significant challenges. First, humans are strategic, and may misrepresent their private information if doing so can benefit them. Second, when decisions affect humans, we often want outcomes to be fair, not systematically favoring one individual or group over another. In this talk, I discuss two settings that exemplify these considerations. First, I consider the participatory budgeting problem in which a shared budget must be divided among competing public projects. Building on classic literature in economics, I present a class of truthful mechanisms and exhibit a tradeoff between fairness and economic efficiency within this class. Second, I examine the classic online learning problem of learning with expert advice in a setting where experts are strategic and act to maximize their influence on the learner. I present algorithms that incentivize truthful reporting from experts while achieving optimal regret bounds. Rupert Freeman is a postdoc at Microsoft Research New York City. Previously, he received his Ph.D. from Duke University under the supervision of Vincent Conitzer. His research focuses on the intersection of artificial intelligence and economics, particularly in topics such as resource allocation, voting, and information elicitation. He is the recipient of a Facebook Ph.D. Fellowship and a Duke Computer Science outstanding dissertation award. Host: Professor Amy Greenwald Talk: Human Compatible: Making Decisions From Human Knowledge and Preferences (Rupert Freeman, Microsoft Research) Mar 20 12:00pm CANCELED: DSCoV Workshop: Overview of Machine Learning 164 Angell Street This workshop will provide a high-level overview of the main areas in machine learning with emphasis on supervised and unsupervised ML. We will review the strengths and limitations of ML, describe the bias-variance tradeoff which is one of the most important concepts in ML. Finally, we will review the main steps in a typical ML workflow and the most common problems to avoid. CANCELED: DSCoV Workshop: Overview of Machine Learning Mar 18 4:00pm CANCELED: Data Wednesday: Matteo Riondato (Amherst College) 164 Angell Street Title and abstract TBA. CANCELED: Data Wednesday: Matteo Riondato (Amherst College) Mar 16 12:00pm - 1:00pm Talk: Making AI the New Electricity: Human-AI Interaction in Healthcare, Language, and Beyond (Qian Yang, Carnegie Mellon University) Watson Center for Information Technology (CIT) Some claim AI is the “new electricity” due to its growing significance and ubiquity. My research investigates this vision from an HCI perspective: How can we situate this remarkable technology in ways people perceive as valuable? How could we form a symbiotic relationship between systems that utilize machine learning and their users, to do things neither can do on their own? In this talk, I will discuss a number of research projects that systematically investigate these questions. Projects include the designs of clinical decision-support systems that can effectively collaborate with doctors in making life-and-death decisions and an investigation of how Natural Language Generation systems might seamlessly serve authors’ communicative intent. Each project engages stakeholders in their real-world contexts and addresses a critical challenge in transitioning AI from the research lab to the real world. Based upon this body of work and my studies of industry practice, I propose a framework laying out the problem space of human-AI interaction design. I discuss our early work in understanding AI as a material for HCI design and synthesizing generalizable design methods. Qian Yang is a Human-Computer Interaction (HCI) researcher and a Ph.D. candidate at the School of Computer Science at Carnegie Mellon University. Her research draws together theories and methods from design, the social sciences, and machine learning to advance human-AI interaction. She is best known for designing decision support systems that effectively aided physicians in making critical clinical decisions. Her work has been supported by the National Institute of Health, the National Science Foundation, and the Department of Health and Human Services. During her Ph.D., she has collaborated with researchers at Google Brain, Microsoft Research, among others. She published fifteen peer-reviewed publications on the topic of human-AI interaction at premiere HCI research venues. Four of these won paper awards. She is the recipient of a Digital Health fellowship from the Center for Machine Learning and Health, a Microsoft Research Dissertation Grant, and an Innovation by Design Award from FastCompany. Her work was featured on various global media outlets. This spring she will be speaking at SXSW on designing AI products and services. Host: Professor Jeff Huang Talk: Making AI the New Electricity: Human-AI Interaction in Healthcare, Language, and Beyond (Qian Yang, Carnegie Mellon University) Mar 13 12:00pm DSCoV Workshop: CI & Beyond with Github Actions 164 Angell Street GitHub Actions is a relatively new service by GitHub that allows you to run tests, deploy code, and more all from within your repo. This workshop will cover some of the basic use cases of GitHub Actions as well as show some of the more creative ways it can be used to automate your workflows. Attendees should be familiar with Git and GitHub. Instructor: Mary McGrath DSCoV Workshop: CI & Beyond with Github Actions Mar 11 4:00pm CANCELED: Data Wednesday: Priya Moorjani (UC Berkeley) 164 Angell Street Title and abstract TBA. CANCELED: Data Wednesday: Priya Moorjani (UC Berkeley) Mar 9 3:00pm - 4:00pm Statistics C. V. Starr Lecture: Sumithra J. Mandrekar, PhD 121 South Main Street Sumithra J. Mandrekar, PhD, Professor of Biostatistics and Oncology, Mayo Clinic Clinical Trial Designs for Personalized Medicine in Oncology Clinical trial design strategies have evolved as a means to accelerate the drug development process so that the right therapies can be delivered to the right patients. Basket, umbrella, SMART and adaptive enrichment strategies represent a class of novel designs for testing targeted therapeutics, and individualizing treatment in oncology. Umbrella trials include a central infrastructure for screening and identification of patients, and focus on a single tumor type or histology with multiple sub trials, each testing a targeted therapy within a molecularly defined subset. Basket trial designs offer the possibility to include multiple molecularly defined subpopulations, often across histology or tumor types, but included in one cohesive design to evaluate the targeted therapy in question. Adaptive enrichment designs offer the potential to enrich for patients with a particular molecular feature that is predictive of benefit for the test treatment based on accumulating evidence from the trial. A SMART design strategy is appropriate when comparing adaptive interventions, which are defined by an individual’s sequence of treatment decisions and guided by intermediate outcomes, such as response to therapy. This talk will focus on the fundamentals of these design strategies, the underlying statistical framework, the logistical barriers of implementation, and, ultimately, the interpretation of the trial results, using some case-studies including the National Cancer Institute’s precision medicine initiative trials. Bio: Dr. Mandrekar received her interdisciplinary Ph.D. in Biostatistics, Psychology, Internal Medicine and Biomedical Engineering from the Ohio State University, Columbus OH in December 2002, and joined Mayo Clinic as a research associate in January 2003. She is currently Professor of Biostatistics and Oncology at the Mayo Clinic, Rochester MN, and Section Head for the Cancer Center Statistics within Mayo Clinic Department of Health Sciences Research. She is the Group Statistician for the Alliance for Clinical Trials in Oncology, which is one of the 4 NCI-funded national clinical trials networks for the conduct of phase II and III clinical trials in adult cancer. Dr. Mandrekar also holds an adjunct Professor of Biostatistics appointment at the School of Public Health, University of Minnesota, and at the University of Gainesville, FL. Dr. Mandrekar’s primary research interests include adaptive dose-finding early phase trial designs, designs for predictive biomarker validation, and general clinical trial methodology related to conduct of clinical trials and identification of alternative Phase II cancer clinical trial endpoints. Dr. Mandrekar has co-authored over 140 original papers; several book chapters and editorials; and has given numerous lectures, invited presentations and workshops on these topics. Her primary collaborative areas are lung cancer and leukemia. She is the faculty statistician for the national adjuvant lung cancer trial, ALCHEMIST, an approximately 8000 patient trial, which is part of the NCI precision medicine initiative. She was the primary statistician on the Phase III C10603 trial that led to the FDA approval of Midostaurin for AML patients with FLT3 mutations. Dr. Mandrekar is a voting member of the NCI thoracic malignancies steering committee, past president of the society for clinical trials (2018-2019), voting member on the clinical trials transformation initiative on master protocols, member of the ASCO mCODE executive council, voting member of the international RECIST working group and the biostatistics editor for the Journal of Thoracic Oncology. She has a national and international presence as an expert in clinical trial design as evidenced by her bibliography and membership on various national and international committees. Statistics C. V. Starr Lecture: Sumithra J. Mandrekar, PhD (Biostatistics) Biology, Medicine, Public Health, BioStatsSeminar, Education, Teaching, Instruction, Graduate School, Postgraduate Education, Mathematics, Technology, Engineering, Training, Professional Development Mar 6 12:00pm DSCoV Workshop: Intro to PyTorch 164 Angell Street Intro to PyTorch, by Minju Jung Nowadays, PyTorch is one of the most popular deep learning libraries. In this tutorial, I will cover the basic operations of PyTorch and building a neural network model for image classification. The basic knowledge of deep learning and coding experience with python are required. DSCoV Workshop: Intro to PyTorch Mar 5 12:00pm - 1:00pm Introduction to LaTeX Sciences Library, 3rd floor Are you interested in learning more about LaTeX? The LaTeX Workshop series, run through the Science Center, aims to teach how to effectively use LaTeX, a document preparation system used to typeset technical and scientific documents. Each workshop integrates lecture time along with time for students to apply what they have learned through exercises and students will develop a template document over the course of each workshop. We offer workshops at the beginning and intermediate levels. Participants may register for any level in the series, but prior knowledge is expected for the intermediate workshops. Registration is now open for our first workshop, “Introduction to LaTeX & Math”. Lunch is provided. Introduction to LaTeX (Science Center) Academic Calendar, University Dates & Events, Education, Teaching, Instruction, Mathematics, Technology, Engineering Mar 4 4:00pm Data Wednesday: Creating artificial genomes (Flora Jay, CNRS) 164 Angell Street Generative neural networks for population genetics: Creating artificial genomes Generative models have shown breakthroughs in a wide spectrum of domains due to recent advancements in machine learning algorithms and increased computational power. Despite these impressive achievements, the ability of generative models to create realistic synthetic data is still under-exploited in genetics and absent from population genetics. Yet a known limitation of this field is the reduced access to many genetic databases due to concerns about violations of individual privacy, although they would provide a rich resource for data mining and integration towards advancing genetic studies. We demonstrated that deep generative adversarial networks (GANs) and restricted Boltzmann machines (RBMs) can be trained to learn the high dimensional distributions of real genomic datasets and generate novel high- quality artificial genomes (AGs) with little privacy loss. We show that our generated AGs replicate characteristics of the source dataset such as allele frequencies, linkage disequilibrium, pairwise haplotype distances and population structure. Moreover, they can also inherit complex features such as signals of selection and genotype-phenotype associations. To illustrate the promising outcomes of our method, we showed that imputation quality for low frequency alleles can be improved by augmenting reference panels with AGs and that the RBM latent space provides a relevant encoding of the data, hence allowing further exploration of the reference dataset and providing features that could help solving supervised tasks. Data Wednesday: Creating artificial genomes (Flora Jay, CNRS) Feb 28 12:00pm DSCoV: Exploratory Data Analysis w/ Pandas in Python, Part 2 164 Angell Street Data Science Computation and Visualization Workshop EXPLORATORY DATA ANALYSIS WITH PANDAS IN PYTHON, PART TWO with Andras Zsom Exploratory data analysis (EDA) is the first step of any data science project. In the second part of this pandas tutorial, I’ll walk through various visualization types you can use to better understand the properties of your data at a glance using pandas. Coding experience with python is required but no experience with the pandas package is necessary to follow the tutorial. Friday 2/28 @ 12pm Carney Innovation Space, 4th Floor 164 Angell Street Pizzas and sodas will be served. Sponsored by the Data Science Initiative and organized by the Center for Computation and Visualization. DSCoV: Exploratory Data Analysis w/ Pandas in Python, Part 2 Feb 27 3:00pm DSI Special Seminar: Richard Li (Yale) 121 South Main Street METHODS FOR POPULATION HEALTH WITH LIMITED DATA ZEHANG (RICHARD) LI, PhD Postdoctoral Research Associate Department of Biostatistics, Yale University Data describing health outcomes of hidden populations and in low-resource areas are usually noisy and incomplete. In this talk, I will discuss two projects in such data-constrained settings. In the first project, I propose probabilistic approaches to estimating cause of death distributions using verbal autopsies (VA). VA is a survey-based method that is routinely carried out to assign causes to deaths when medically certified causes are not available. I will present an approach to use latent Gaussian graphical models to characterize the joint distribution of symptoms and causes of death while accommodating informative prior knowledge about their marginal associations. This allows us to combine noisy data from multiple sources to improve the cause of death classification. I will also briefly discuss the broader impact of probabilistic modeling of VA based on pilot studies to integrate VA with existing civil registration system.In the second project, I will discuss methods to evaluate population-level public health interventions for combating the opioid epidemics. Opioid use and overdose has become an important public health issue in the United States. However, understanding the dynamics of opioid overdose incidents and effects of public health interventions remains challenging, as comprehensive datasets describing drug use usually lack. I will discuss challenges in evaluating impacts of spatially- and time-varying exposures with unmeasured confounding and spillover effects. I will discuss methods to leverage the space-time structures to adjust for certain types of confounding due to smooth latent processes and develop strategies to evaluate the sensitivity of such adjustments. Zehang (Richard) Li is currently a postdoctoral associate in the Department of Biostatistics at Yale School of Public Health. He completed his PhD in Statistics at the University of Washington in 2018.His research interests include Bayesian hierarchical models for high-dimensional data, spatial-temporal statistics, causal inference, global and population health, and reproducible research. DSI Special Seminar: Richard Li (Yale) Feb 26 4:00pm Data Wednesday: Peter Haas (UMass Amherst) 164 Angell Street At the Interface of Data and Decision Making Under Uncertainty In this talk I will give an overview of two ongoing projects at the interface of data and stochastic simulation/optimization models. I will first discuss our work on “stochastic package queries” (SPQs), a framework for synthesizing data management systems, predictive models, and optimization tools to provide an end-to-end system for decision support in the face of uncertainty. The goal of a SQP is to select a subset of tuples in a table (e.g., a portfolio of stocks) to optimize the expected value of an aggregate over the subset, while satisfying a set of constraints with high probability. We use a Monte Carlo database system to incorporate stochastic predictive models into the database and provide a declarative extension to SQL, called sPaQL, for specifying SPQs. Prior stochastic programming approaches typically do not scale to the SPQ setting, so we provide novel techniques for scalably computing approximately optimal solutions with statistical guarantees, while not overwhelming optimization engines such as CPLEX and Gurobi. Our second project aims at the ultimate goal of automatically generating and executing discrete-event stochastic simulation (DESS) models to seamlessly incorporate expert domain knowledge into decision making under uncertainty for complex dynamic systems. Perhaps the most challenging step in the creation of a DESS model is specification of the input distributions, e.g., for the arrival process in a queueing model. Traditionally, small amounts of historical data would be available; distribution-fitting software would assume that interarrival times are iid, and then select and parameterize one of a small family of standard distributions, such as exponential, gamma, or Weibull. We show that such software often fails for processes with complex features such as multi-modal marginal distributions or temporal correlations. We design novel generative neural networks, specifically, variational autoencoders with LSTM components, that permit automated, higher fidelity simulation input modeling in data-rich scenarios. Preliminary results show that a range of complex processes can be automatically and accurately modeled by our techniques, without overfitting. Peter J. Haas is a Professor of Information and Computer Sciences at the University of Massachusetts Amherst, as well as an Adjunct Professor in Mechanical and Industrial Engineering. From 1987-2017 he worked at the IBM Almaden Research Center, rising to the level of Principal Research Staff Member. He was also a Consulting Professor in the Department of Management Science and Engineering at Stanford University from 1992-2017. His research interests lie at the interface of information management, applied probability, statistics, and computer simulation. He has worked on topics including modeling, stability, and simulation of discrete-event stochastic systems, approximate query processing, the Splash platform for collaborative modeling and simulation, techniques for massive-scale data analytics (matrix completion, dynamic graph analysis, and declarative machine learning), Monte Carlo methods for scalable querying and Bayesian learning over massive uncertain data, automated relationship discovery in databases, query optimization methods, autonomic computing and visualization recommendation systems. He was designated an IBM Master Inventor in 2012, and his ideas have been incorporated into products including IBM’s DB2 database system. He is a Fellow of both ACM and INFORMS, and has received a number of awards from IBM and both the Simulation and Computer Science communities, including an IBM Research Outstanding Innovation Award, VLDB 2016 Best Paper Award, an ACM SIGMOD 10-year Best Paper award, and an INFORMS Simulation Society Outstanding Simulation Publication Award for his monograph on stochastic Petri nets. He serves on the editorial boards of ACM Transactions on Database Systems and ACM Transactions on Modeling and Computer Simulation, and was an Associate Editor for the VLDB Journal from 2007 to 2013 and for Operations Research from 1995-2017. He is the author of over 130 conference publications, journal articles, and books, and has been granted over 30 patents. Data Wednesday: Peter Haas (UMass Amherst) Feb 26 12:00pm - 1:00pm Talk: Data science methods to reduce inequality and improve healthcare (Emma Pierson, Stanford University) Watson Center for Information Technology (CIT) I will describe how to use data science methods to understand and reduce inequality in two domains: criminal justice and healthcare. First, I will discuss how to use Bayesian modeling to detect racial discrimination in policing. Second, I will describe how to use machine learning to explain racial and socioeconomic inequality in pain. Emma Pierson is a PhD student in Computer Science at Stanford, supported by Hertz and NDSEG Fellowships. Previously, she completed a master’s degree in statistics at Oxford on a Rhodes Scholarship. She develops statistical and machine learning methods to study two deeply entwined problems: reducing inequality and improving healthcare. She also writes about these topics for broader audiences in publications including The New York Times, The Washington Post, FiveThirtyEight, and Wired. Her work has been recognized by best paper (AISTATS 2018), best poster (ICML Workshop on Computational Biology), and best talk (ISMB High Throughput Sequencing Workshop) awards, and she has been named a Rising Star in EECS and Forbes 30 Under 30 in Science. Host: Professor Seny Kamara Talk: Data science methods to reduce inequality and improve healthcare (Emma Pierson, Stanford University) Feb 26 12:00pm DSI Special Seminar: John Laudun Rockefeller Library “Are We Not Doing Phrasing Anymore?”: Towards a Cultural Informatics John Laudun, University of Louisiana Recent headlines in major news outlets like the New York Times or the Chronicle of Higher Education reveal the profound suspicion with which statistical methods have been received within the humanities. The pervasive belief is that a chasm lies between statistics and the humanities that not only cannot be bridged but should not be attempted, at the risk of losing the human. And yet slowly and steadily a growing number of practitioners have not only developed research programs but also pedagogical methods that open up new analytical perspectives as well as new avenues for students to explore their relationship between the subject matter and their own understanding. This talk offers a small survey of various practices to be found in the digital humanities alongside a few experiments by the author in allowing students to experience how statistical methods in fact de-mystify the meaning-making process in language and empower students not only to ground their insights in things they can see, and count, but also, in understanding texts as nothing more than certain sequences of words, opening a path to making them better writers as well. Working from a broad survey to narrow applications, the talk suggests that concerns about a loss of humanity in the humanities is actually a concern for loss of certain kinds of authority, but that new kinds of authority are possible within which researchers and teachers will find a firm ground from which to offer interpretations and evaluations of the kinds of complex artifacts that have long been the purview of the domain. John Laudun received his MA in literary studies from Syracuse University in 1989 and his PhD in folklore studies from the Folklore Institute at Indiana University in 1999. He was a Jacob K. Javits Fellow while at Syracuse and Indiana (1987-1992), and a MacArthur Scholar at the Indiana Center for Global Change and World Peace (1993-94). He has written grants that have been funded by the Grammy Foundation and the Louisiana Board of Regents, been a fellow with the EVIA Digital Archive and a scholar in residence with UCLA’s Institute for Pure and Applied Mathematics. His book, The Amazing Crawfish Boat, is a longitudinal ethnographic study of creativity and tradition within a material folk culture domain. Laudun’s current work is in the realm of culture analytics. He is currently engaged in several collaborations with physicists and other scientists seeking to understand how texts can be modeled computationally in order to better describe functions and features. Lunch will be served! DSI Special Seminar: John Laudun Feb 25 4:00pm DSI Special Seminar: Karianne Bergen (Harvard) MacMillan Hall Big data for small earthquakes: Computational challenges in large-scale earthquake detection Earthquake detection – the identification of weak earthquake signals in continuous waveform data recorded by sensors in a seismic network – is a fundamental task in seismology. In this talk, I will describe the data science challenges associated with earthquake detection in massive seismic data sets. I will discuss how new algorithmic advances in machine learning and data mining are helping to advance the state-of-the-art in earthquake monitoring. As a case study, I will present Fingerprint and Similarity Thresholding (FAST), a novel method for large-scale earthquake detection inspired by audio recognition technology (Yoon et al., 2015). FAST uses locality-sensitive hashing, a technique for efficiently identifying similar items in large data sets, to detect similar waveforms (candidate earthquakes) in continuous seismic data. By posing earthquake detection as a data mining problem, FAST can discover new earthquake sources without training data, which is often unavailable for seismic data sets. FAST has recently been extended to long-duration, multi-sensor seismic data sets (Bergen and Beroza, 2018; Rong et al., 2018; Yoon et al., 2019) – introducing a capability for large-scale unsupervised detection that was not previously available for seismic data analysis. The latest generation of earthquake detection methods, including FAST and other new approaches based on deep neural networks, reflect a broader trend toward data-driven methods in the solid Earth geosciences (Bergen et al., 2019). I will conclude the talk with a brief discussion of opportunities for collaboration between the geoscience and data science communities that will advance the state-of-the art in both fields. In particular, I will highlight how research in the emerging discipline of scientific machine learning will play a critical role in driving discovery in the Earth and physical sciences. Dr. Karianne J. Bergen is a Data Science Initiative Postdoctoral Fellow in Computer Science at Harvard University’s John A. Paulson School of Engineering and Applied Sciences. Her research focuses on the use of machine learning for pattern recognition and discovery in noisy, real-world scientific data sets. For her doctoral research, she developed a new algorithm for automatically identifying weak earthquake signals in large seismic data sets. Her research has been recognized with awards from the Seismological Society of America, the American Geophysical Union and the Royal Astronomical Society. Prior to her graduate studies, Dr. Bergen worked as a staff data scientist at MIT-Lincoln Laboratory. She holds a M.Sc. and Ph.D. in Computational and Mathematical Engineering from Stanford University and a B.Sc. in Applied Mathematics from Brown University. DSI Special Seminar: Karianne Bergen (Harvard) Feb 25 12:00pm DSI Tech Lunch: Even Shen (Minted) 164 Angell Street Brown University DSI MS graduate, Even Shen, is a Data Analyst at Minted. Minted is a design marketplace, sourcing creative content from independent artists around the globe and selling the best designs to the world in the form of art, home decor, and stationery. Even’s talk will cover some information about how Minted got started & the products they offer as well as going into depth about her role within the company and her journey from studying at Brown through becoming a Data Analyst at Minted. Must have a valid Brown ID to enter 164 Angell Street, 3rd Floor. DSI Tech Lunch: Even Shen (Minted) Feb 21 12:00pm DSCoV: Basic Methods in Reinforcement Learning 164 Angell Street Instructor: Rex Liu This tutorial will provide a crash course on some of the basic methods in reinforcement learning. No prior knowledge beyond Python will be assumed. Emphasis will be on methods rather than proofs. We shall begin with Markov decision processes, the framework upon which all RL is formulated, followed by the central equation that RL essentially attempts to optimise, the Bellman equation. We shall then discuss how all learning methods attempt to optimise this equation, namely through policy evaluation, policy improvement, and value iteration. Finally, we shall cover one of the most important families of RL algorithms, TD-learning, and provide some hands-on exercises to play with these algorithms. Carney Innovation Space, 4th Floor 164 Angell Street Pizzas and sodas will be served. Sponsored by the Data Science Initiative and organized by the Center for Computation and Visualization. DSCoV: Basic Methods in Reinforcement Learning Feb 19 4:00pm Data Wednesday: Aaron Sams (emBark) 164 Angell Street RUNS OF HOMOZYGOSITY, RECESSIVE DISEASE GENOTYPES, AND INBREEDING DEPRESSION IN DOMESTIC DOGS AARON SAMS SENIOR SCIENTIST, EMBARK VETERINARY INC. Inbreeding leaves distinct genomic traces, most notably long genomic tracts that are identical by descent and completely homozygous. These runs of homozygosity (ROH) can contribute to inbreeding depression if they contain deleterious variants that are fully or partially recessive. The aim of this study was to examine the relationship between inbreeding measured from ROH the severity of inbreeding depression in several breeds for which phenotype data was available. We examined genome-wide data from over 200,000 markers, which we used to build high-resolution ROH density maps for over 3,000 dogs, recording ROH down to 500 kilobases. Additionally, we utilized reproductive fitness-related phenotype data from the Morris Animal Foundation’s Golden Retriever Lifetime Study, Doberman Pinscher longevity data from the Doberman Diversity Project, and other phenotype data collected from Embark Veterinary customers. We find that over the range of coefficient of inbreeding (COI) levels observed within several dog breeds, inbreeding depression is clearly evident using various types of phenotypic measures. In most breeds, genetic testing to reduce the incidence of high COI litters will have a greater impact on animal welfare and population health than the current testing of known Mendelian disorders recommended by breed clubs. Aaron Sams received his Master of Science in Biological Anthropology in 2010, as well as his Doctorate in Philosphy in 2012, both from the University of Wisconsin-Madison. After spending almost four years post- graduation in Madison, Aaron went on to be a postdoctoral researcher at Cornell University before settling in at Embark, where he has been for almost four years. He is an experienced interdisciplinary scientist with a background in biological anthropology, genomics, and computational biology. Aaron has a demonstrated history of working in the veterinary industry and uses computational methods to understand problem sin human evolutionary genomics. He is now applying those skills to canine genomics to help improve the lives of dogs. Data Wednesday: Aaron Sams (emBark) Feb 19 10:00am DSI Special Seminar: Victor Veitch (Columbia) 164 Angell Adapting black-box machine learning methods for causal inference ﻿I’ll discuss the use of observational data to estimate the causal effect of a treatment on an outcome. This task is complicated by the presence of ‘confounders’ that influence both treatment and outcome, inducing observed associations that are not causal. Causal estimation is achieved by adjusting for this confounding by using observed covariate information. I’ll discuss the case where we observe covariates that carry sufficient information for the adjustment, but where explicit models relating treatment, outcome, covariates, and confounding are not available. For example, in medical data the covariates might consist of a large number of convenience health measurements of which only an unknown subset are relevant, and even then in some totally unknown manner. Or, the covariates might be a passage of (natural language) text that describes the relevant information. I’ll describe how to modify standard architectures and training objectives to achieve statistically efficient and practically useful causal estimates, as well as how to adapt traditional approaches to evaluating sensitivity to unobserved confounding to allow for the use of blackbox models. Victor Veitch is a distinguished postdoctoral research scientist in the department of statistics at Columbia University. He completed his PhD in Statistics at the University of Toronto. His work addresses both the use of machine learning for causal inference, and the modeling of relational and network data. He has been recognized with a number of awards, including the 2017 Pierre Robillard award for best Statistics PhD thesis in Canada. DSI Special Seminar: Victor Veitch (Columbia) Mathematics, Technology, Engineering Feb 18 12:00pm DSI Special Seminar: Joe Kileel (Princeton) 170 Hope Street Inverse Problems, Imaging and Tensor Decomposition Perspectives from computational algebra and non-convex optimization are brought to bear on a scientific application and a data science application. In the first part of the talk, I will discuss cryo-electron microscopy (cryo-EM), an imaging technique to determine the 3-D shape of macromolecules from many noisy 2-D projections, recognized by the 2017 Chemistry Nobel Prize. Mathematically, cryo-EM presents a particularly rich inverse problem, with unknown orientations, extreme noise, big data and conformational heterogeneity. In particular, this motivates a general framework for statistical estimation under compact group actions, connecting information theory and group invariant theory. In the second part of the talk, I will discuss tensor rank decomposition, a higher-order variant of PCA broadly applicable in data science. A fast algorithm is introduced and analyzed, combining ideas of Sylvester and the power method. Joe Kileel is currently a Simons Postdoctoral Research Associate in the Program in Applied and Computational Mathematics, Princeton University, working with Amit Singer’s group. In 2017, he received a Mathematics PhD from UC Berkeley under the supervision of Bernd Sturmfels, where his thesis was awarded the Bernard Friedman Memorial Prize for best in applied mathematics. Joe’s research interests center on mathematical data science, with focuses on imaging science, tensor methods, computational statistics and inverse problems. He is especially interested in the development of scalable and robust nonlinear algebraic techniques for scientific computing and data science. DSI Special Seminar: Joe Kileel (Princeton) Feb 14 2:00pm DSI Special Seminar: Edmund Yeh, PhD (Northeastern) 164 Angell Street Title: Networking for Big Data: Theory, Algorithms and Applications Edmund Yeh, PhD Professor of Electrical and Computer Engineering College of Engineering Khoury School of Computer Science Northeastern University In the era of big data, domain experts in various science and engineering fields are facing unprecedented challenges in global data distribution, processing, access and analysis, and in the coordinated use of limited computing, storage and network resources. To meet this challenge and to close an underlying gap between the needs of data-intensive applications and the structure of today’s networks, data-centric network architectures such as Named Data Networking (NDN) have been proposed, which focus on enabling end users to obtain the data they want, rather than to communicate with specific nodes. In this talk, we present new frameworks for the optimization of key functionalities supported by data-centric networking, which are broadly applicable to data-intensive science networks, 5G wireless edge networks, and content delivery networks. The frameworks enable the joint optimization of (in-network) caching and traffic engineering for data distribution, as well as joint computation scheduling, caching and request forwarding for distributed computing. We discuss two classes of distributed and adaptive algorithms for the joint optimizations, one based on throughput optimal control and another based on convex relaxation and stochastic gradient ascent. We analytically provide optimality guarantees for the algorithms in terms of relevant performance metrics, and show that the state-of-the-art algorithms significantly outperform baseline policies over a broad array of network settings. Finally, we discuss results from a recent landmark demonstration which implements the optimization frameworks and algorithms to accelerate data distribution in the Large Hadron Collider (LHC) high-energy physics network, one of the largest data applications in the world. Edmund Yeh received his B.S. in Electrical Engineering with Distinction and Phi Beta Kappa from Stanford University in 1994. He then studied at Cambridge University on the Winston Churchill Scholarship, obtaining his M.Phil in Engineering in 1995. He received his Ph.D. in Electrical Engineering and Computer Science from MIT under Professor Robert Gallager in 2001. He is currently Professor of Electrical and Computer Engineering at Northeastern University. He was previously Assistant and Associate Professor of Electrical Engineering, Computer Science, and Statistics at Yale University. He has held visiting positions at MIT, Stanford, Princeton, UC Berkeley, NYU, EPFL, and TU Munich. Professor Yeh was one of the PIs on the original NSF-funded FIA Named Data Networking project. He is the recipient of the Alexander von Humboldt Research Fellowship, the Army Research Office Young Investigator Award, the Winston Churchill Scholarship, the National Science Foundation and Office of Naval Research Graduate Fellowships, the Barry M. Goldwater Scholarship, the Frederick Emmons Terman Engineering Scholastic Award, and the President’s Award for Academic Excellence (Stanford University). Professor Yeh has received three Best Paper Awards, including awards at the 2017 ACM Conference on Information-Centric Networking (ICN), and at the 2015 IEEE International Conference on Communications (ICC) Communication Theory Symposium. He will serve as General Chair for ACM SIGMETRICS 2020 and TPC Co-Chair for ACM MobiHoc 2021. DSI Special Seminar: Edmund Yeh, PhD (Northeastern) Feb 14 12:00pm DSCoV: Exploratory Data Analysis w/ Pandas in Python, Part 1 164 Angell Street Data Science Computation and Visualization Workshop EXPLORATORY DATA ANALYSIS WITH PANDAS IN PYTHON, PART ONE with Andras Zsom Exploratory data analysis (EDA) is the first step of any data science project. In the first part of this pandas tutorial, I’ll walk through how to read in csv, excel, and sql data into a pandas data frame, how to select specific rows and columns based on index or condition, and how to merge and append various data frames. Coding experience with python is required but no experience with the pandas package is necessary to follow the tutorial. Friday 2/14 @ 12pm Carney Innovation Space, 4th Floor 164 Angell Street Pizzas and sodas will be served. Sponsored by the Data Science Initiative and organized by the Center for Computation and Visualization. DSCoV: Exploratory Data Analysis w/ Pandas in Python, Part 1 Feb 14 8:30am - 10:00am Carney Coffee Hour with Data Specialists 164 Angell Street Do you have questions about data sharing, retention, curation, access, or management? As part of Love Data Week, please join the Carney Institute for a special Carney Coffee Hour and informal chat with data specialists from the Office of Research Integrity: Keri Godin, Senior Director of the Office of Research Integrity Andrew Creamer, Scientific Data Management Specialist Arielle Nitenson, Senior Research Data Manager Carney Coffee Hour with Data Specialists (Carney Institute for Brain Science) Biology, Medicine, Public Health, Education, Teaching, Instruction, Libraries, Psychology & Cognitive Sciences, Research Feb 13 4:00pm - 5:30pm Challenging Silicon Valley’s Infinite Loop of Irresponsibility: Natasha Singer, NYT Building for Environmental Research and Teaching (BERT), 85 Waterman Street Brown alumna and New York Times reporter Natasha Singer will talk about a new movement – “responsible computing” The medical profession has an ethic: First, do no harm, Silicon Valley has an ethos: Build it first and ask for forgiveness later. We’re increasingly seeing the consequences of that move-fast ethos: election interference, mass disinformation and the incitement of ethnic hatred. In this talk, Natasha will discuss the techniques journalists use to examine the consequences of emerging technologies on society – reporting that often prompts reactive changes at tech companies. She’ll also talk about a new movement – “responsible computing” – that aims to embed the analysis of societal consequences in computer science. Brown alumna Natasha Singer is a reporter at The New York Times where she covers the intersection of technology, business and society, with a particular focus on data privacy, fairness and industry accountability. She was a member of a New York Times’ reporting team whose privacy coverage won a Polk Award in National Reporting in 2019 and was a finalist for a 2019 Pulitzer Prize in National Reporting. Her recent series for the Times, called “Education Disrupted,” uncovered how tech giants like Google and Microsoft are working to reshape public education. Her previous Times’ series on the consumer data industry, called “You For Sale,” helped prompt several congressional and federal investigations, as well as the enactment of student online data privacy laws in California and other states. Natasha also developed and teaches a course on responsible computing at The School Of The New York Times, the newspaper’s pre-college summer program for high school students. Reception to follow. Please register at: https://natashasinger-browncs.eventbrite.com Challenging Silicon Valley’s Infinite Loop of Irresponsibility: Natasha Singer, NYT Feb 13 2:00pm DSI Special Seminar: Franca Hoffman (Cal Tech) 170 Hope Street Gradient Flows: From PDE to Data Analysis Certain diffusive PDEs can be viewed as infinite-dimensional gradient flows. This fact has led to the development of new tools in various areas of mathematics ranging from PDE theory to data science. In this talk, we focus on two different directions: model-driven approaches and data-driven approaches. In the first part of the talk we use gradient flows for analyzing non-linear and non-local aggregation-diffusion equations when the corresponding energy functionals are not necessarily convex. Moreover, the gradient flow structure enables us to make connections to well-known functional inequalities, revealing possible links between the optimizers of these inequalities and the equilibria of certain aggregation-diffusion PDEs. In the second part, we use and develop gradient flow theory to design novel tools for data analysis. We draw a connection between gradient flows and Ensemble Kalman methods for parameter estimation. We introduce the Ensemble Kalman Sampler - a derivative-free methodology for model calibration and uncertainty quantification in expensive black-box models. The interacting particle dynamics underlying our algorithm can be approximated by a novel gradient flow structure in a modified Wasserstein metric which reflects particle correlations. The geometry of this modified Wasserstein metric is of independent theoretical interest. Franca Hoffmann is a von Karman instructor at California Institute of Technology. She completed her PhD at the Cambridge Centre for Analysis at University of Cambridge (UK) in 2017, supervised by Jose A. Carrillo and Clément Mouhot. Her research is focused on the applied mathematics/data analysis interface, driven by the need to provide rigorous mathematical foundations for modeling tools used in applications. In particular, Franca is interested in the theory of nonlinear and nonlocal PDEs, as well as in developing novel tools for data analysis and mathematical approaches to machine learning. DSI Special Seminar: Franca Hoffman (Cal Tech) Feb 6 5:30pm - 6:30pm NEW Undergraduate Data Fluency Certificate Info Session Smith-Buonanno Hall The Data Science Initiative will be hosting an informational session discussing the new undergraduate Data Fluency Certificate on Thursday, Feb 6th from 5:30 – 6:30 p.m. in Smith Buonanno Hall, Room 101. The certificate is designed to meet the learning goals of students interested in data science, without undertaking a CS or related concentration. The certificate consists of three required courses, an upper level elective, and an experiential component. Current juniors, sophomores, and first year students are eligible for the Data Fluency Certificate. Students concentrating in any of the following (Computer Science, Applied Math, Computational Biology, Mathematics, or Statistics) (either jointly in combination) are not eligible. Please join us for the information session to learn more about this exciting new data science opportunity at Brown! NEW Undergraduate Data Fluency Certificate Info Session Feb 6 12:00pm Career conversation with the CEO of My Green Lab 164 Angell Street Please join the Carney Institute for Brain Science for an informal lunch with Brown alumna Allison Paradise. Allison will talk about her career path and how her BASc in Neuroscience helped her found My Green Labs, a non-profit working to reduce waste in scientific research labs. Please RSVP to help with the head count for catering. Career conversation with the CEO of My Green Lab (Carney Institute for Brain Science) Biology, Medicine, Public Health, Careers, Recruiting, Internships, Graduate School, Postgraduate Education, Psychology & Cognitive Sciences, Training, Professional Development Jan 30 3:00pm - 4:00pm Adaptation in Information Search and Decision-Making Under Time Pressure Brown University Medical Education Building (Alpert Medical School) Adaptation in Information Search and Decision-Making Under Time Pressure Dr. Anita Crescenzi In this talk, Dr. Crescenzi will summarize several studies that have investigated the effects of time limits and time pressure on search and decision-making behaviors. Dr. Crescenzi found evidence of different types of adaptation under time pressure from analysis of traces of users’ interactions with search systems, participant’s perceptions of their process, and task outcomes. Under time pressure, people may exhibit signs of one or more types of adaptation: they may adapt the search process (e.g., decide not to search, search more shallowly), adjust the search outcome (e.g., look at fewer pages of information), or adjust the decision outcome (e.g., make a less specific recommendation). The context in which the search and decision-making takes place influences the types of adaptation that are observed and even possible. Dr. Crescenzi will finish the talk by applying the findings to a clinical decision-making context. BIO: Anita Crescenzi is a Postdoctoral Research Associate at the School of Information and Library Science at the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill (UNC). Anita received her Ph.D. in Information and Library Science in 2019. Her research interests include interactive information retrieval, human-computer interaction, and decision-making. She seeks to 1) understand how people use search systems to seek information to use in support of their broader goals, 2) design and evaluate novel search interaction features to better support learning, problem-solving, and decision-making, and 3) develop better measures of search behavior and learning during search. She has published her research at SIGIR, CHIIR, ICTIR, and ASIST. She also has eight years of industry and medical library experience in user experience design, usability evaluation, user research, and applications development. As the head of the applications development group, she led the design, development, and evaluation of the UNC Health Sciences Library website with over 1 million annual visits serving more than 10,000 health affairs faculty, staff, and students; 5,000 residents and staff of UNC Hospitals; and 2,000 clinical preceptors. Adaptation in Information Search and Decision-Making Under Time Pressure (Center for Biomedical Informatics (BCBI)) Biology, Medicine, Public Health, Libraries, Research Jan 29 4:00pm Data Wednesday: Achal Neupane 164 Angell Street Title and abstract TBA. Data Wednesday: Achal Neupane Jan 22 4:00pm Data Wednesday: Juan Angel Patino-Galindo (Columbia University) 164 Angell Street Title and abstract TBA. Data Wednesday: Juan Angel Patino-Galindo (Columbia University) Jan 15 9:00am Getting Started with Python and Data Science Mencoff Hall PSTC is hosting a Getting Started with Python and Data Science workshop. This is an introductory two-day workshop that aims to provide participants with an immersive practice on Python and data analytics. The workshop is designed primarily for Python beginners, and no prior programming experience is required. After this workshop, the participants will be prepared to understand the basics of Python, install and use Python packages, develop Python scripts and manipulate and analyze data using computing packages (e.g., NumPy, Pandas). In addition, participants will become familiar with Python working environment, Anaconda and Jupyter Notebook. This workshop is open to students, postdocs, faculty and other researchers with a Brown University affiliation. When: Wed - Thu, January 15-16, 2020, 9:00 AM – 4:00 PM EST Where: Seminar Room (the 2nd floor of PSTC), 68 Waterman St, Providence, RI, 02912. Get directions with Google Maps. Survey: Pre-workshop survey Registration: Eventbrite Requirements: Please complete the pre-workshop survey before attending. Participants must bring a laptop with a Windows or Mac operating system that they have administrator permission on. Contact: Please email [email protected] or Zhenchao Qian with questions about the content or logistics.. Getting Started with Python and Data Science (Spatial Structures in the Social Sciences) Jan 9 12:00pm - 1:00pm Translational Research Seminar Series Rhode Island Quality Institute Join Advance-CTR for our January Translational Research Seminar, featuring a special talk by Neil Sarkar, PhD, director of the Brown Center for Biomedical Informatics and interim President and CEO of the Rhode Island Quality Institute. Dr. Sarkar will provide a presentation on CurrentCare and other RIQI initiatives and resources that are available to RI investigators for use in their research. Please join us in person, or register to watch the seminar via livestream. Translational Research Seminar Series (Advance-CTR) Biology, Medicine, Public Health, Research, Training, Professional Development Dec 19 12:00pm - 1:00pm NIA IMPACT Collaboratory Grand Rounds: Monica Taljaard, PhD 121 South Main Street The National Institute on Aging (NIA) Imbedded Pragmatic AD/ADRD Clinical Trials (IMPACT) Collaboratory is working to build the nation’s capacity to conduct pragmatic clinical trials of interventions embedded within health care systems for people living with dementia and their caregivers. The IMPACT Collaboratory hosts free webinars on the 3rd Thursday of each month at 12 noon ET addressing these issues. On Thursday Dec. 19th we’ll hear from Monica Taljaard, PhD, a biostatistician specializing in the design, analysis and ethics of pragmatic cluster randomized and stepped wedge trials. As a member of the Ottawa Hospital Research Institute Methods Center, she regularly provides biostatistical assistance to investigators in the design, conduct, and analysis of pragmatic trials, pilot trials, quality improvement interventions, and health system projects. Dr. Taljaard will present “Stepped wedge cluster trials: what, how, and when?” Zoom Conferencing Join from PC, Mac, iOS or Android: https://hebrewseniorlife.zoom.us/j/5479652617 Dial-In: +1 646 876 9923 (US Toll) or +1 669 900 6833 (US Toll) Meeting ID: 547 965 2617 NIA IMPACT Collaboratory Grand Rounds: Monica Taljaard, PhD (School of Public Health) Biology, Medicine, Public Health, Research Dec 12 2:00pm John M. K. Mislow, M.D., Ph.D. Memorial Lecture Sidney E. Frank Hall for Life Sciences Susan Hockfield, Ph.D. President Emerita Professor of Neuroscience Massachusetts Institute of Technology The Age of Living Machines: How Biology Will build the Next Technology Revolution Following the lecture, please join us for a reception in the Carney Institute Innovation Zone, 164 Angell St., fourth floor. John M. K. Mislow, M.D., Ph.D. Memorial Lecture (Carney Institute for Brain Science) Dec 11 4:00pm Data Wednesday Seminar 164 Angell Street PERFORMANCE AND IMPACT OF EHRs IN IMPROVING QUALITY OF CARE IN LOW AND MIDDLE INCOME COUNTRIES Hamish Fraser Associate Professor of Medical Science Brown Center for Biomedical Informatics Health information systems including Electronic Health Records are have been show to improve quality of care and reduce medical errors. In low and Middle income countries improving quality of care is a high priority especially for chronic diseases including HIV, MDR-TB, cardiovascular disease and Cancer. Electronic health records are increasingly widely used particularly to support HIV care. In this presentation I will discuss the current status of EHR deployments with the OpenMRS open source EHR, and the evidence for performance and clinical impact of OpenMRS in Rwanda and Kenya. Wednesday, December 11 164 Angell Street, 3rd Floor Seminar Space 4:00-5:00 PM Sponsored by DSI, CCMB, BCBI Refreshments will be served. Data Wednesday Seminar Dec 9 3:00pm - 4:00pm Statistics C. V. Starr Lecture - Ludovic Trinquart, PhD 121 South Main Street Ludovic Trinquart PhD, Assistant Professor of Biostatistics, Boston University School of Public Health “Counterfactual mediation analysis with illness-death model for right-censored surrogate and clinical outcomes” We introduce a counterfactual-based mediation analysis for surrogate outcome evaluation when both the surrogate and clinical endpoint are subject to right-censoring. We use a multistate model for risk prediction to account for both direct transitions towards the clinical endpoint and transitions through the surrogate endpoint. We use the counterfactual framework to define natural direct and indirect effects and the proportion of the treatment effect on the clinical endpoint mediated by the surrogate endpoint. We define these quantities for the cumulative risk and restricted mean survival time. We illustrate our approach using 18-year follow-up data from the SPCG-4 randomized controlled trial of radical prostatectomy for prostate cancer. We assess time to metastasis as a potential surrogate outcome for all-cause mortality. Statistics C. V. Starr Lecture - Ludovic Trinquart, PhD (Biostatistics) Biology, Medicine, Public Health, BioStatsSeminar, Education, Teaching, Instruction, Graduate School, Postgraduate Education, Mathematics, Technology, Engineering, Training, Professional Development Dec 9 8:00am - 1:00pm Advance-CTR Mentoring Training Petteruti Lounge Join Advance-CTR for the next installment of our highly rated Mentoring Training Program on December 9th and 16th at the Petteruti Lounge, 75 Waterman St, Providence. This is part one of the two part session. You must attend both session in order to received the completion certificate. Faculty who mentor junior investigators are encouraged to take advantage of this opportunity to grow as a research mentor and connect with colleagues.Participants will learn how to improve their relationships with mentees and become more effective mentors to junior investigators. This training will be facilitated by Diane Hoffman-Kim, PhD and Ulrike Mende, MD FAHA, who are trained by the National Research Mentoring Network to facilitate this nationally recognized mentoring curriculum. This peer-driven program expands mentors’ knowledge through exposure to the experiences of all participants. Attendees will engage with as many mentoring experiences as they would typically handle in a decade. Faculty who mentor junior investigators who conduct clinical and translational research are encouraged to apply. Preference will be given to more senior mentors. Learn more about the program on AdvanceCTR.org, or click the link above to register. Advance-CTR Mentoring Training (Advance-CTR) Biology, Medicine, Public Health, Research, Training, Professional Development Dec 4 4:00pm - 5:00pm COBRE CBHD Seminar: Spatial Organization of Gut Bacterial Communities 164 Angell Street Please join the COBRE Center for Computational Biology of Human Disease, the Center for Computational Molecular Biology, and the Data Science Initiative for the COBRE CBHD Seminar. Shipra Vaishnava, Ph.D., is an Assistant Professor of Molecular Microbiology and Immunology at Brown University, and is one of the COBRE Center for Computational Biology of Human Disease’s success stories. She graduated from the COBRE program by receiving peer-reviewed funding. Dr. Vaishnava will present a talk entitled “Spatial Organization of Gut Bacterial Communities”. PLEASE NOTE: You will need to swipe your Brown ID before pressing the 3rd-floor button in the elevator to gain access to the third floor. Any Brown ID should work during business hours. COBRE CBHD Seminar: Spatial Organization of Gut Bacterial Communities (Center for Computational Biology of Human Disease (COBRE)) Biology, Medicine, Public Health, Mathematics, Technology, Engineering, Research Dec 4 3:30pm - 5:00pm Research Integrity Series: Rigor, Reproducibility, and Transparency This course is designed to fulfill the NIH requirements for training in the Responsible Conduct of Research (RCR), and is coordinated by the Office of Graduate and Postdoctoral Studies (OGPS) in the Division of Biology and Medicine at Brown. The Research Integrity Series for Faculty consists of core and elective modules, with content and discussion topics aimed at more experienced scholars in the biomedical and clinical sciences. Requirements: Faculty must complete a minimum of 8 hours of in-person core and elective content in order to receive RCR certification. Faculty who began training in this course last year and have yet to complete their 8 hours may continue with this year’s series. Faculty registered for this course may apply up to 1 hr of in-person external RCR training (for example, a departmental workshop, class, or seminar relating to a topic covered in this class). Attendees must provide OGPS with verification of attendance for tracking purposes. Registration is required to attend. More information about the trainings will be distributed prior to the event. To register, please fill out this form. Schedule: Wednesday, December 4th, 3:30-5pm Dr. Elizabeth Harrington and Dr. Audra Van Wart, Rigor, Reproducibility, and Transparency (Note that this is one of the required trainings) SPRING Session (Dates are TBD but will include the following topics): Mentorship (2 hrs), Running a Lab, *Human Subjects/Animal Research, Data Management and Ownership Research Integrity Series: Rigor, Reproducibility, and Transparency (Advance-CTR) Dec 4 11:00am - 12:30pm Academic Grand Rounds* Developing mobile interventions to promote health behavior change: Examples in Alcohol and Smoking Butler Campus Beth Bock, PhD Professor of Psychiatry & Human Behavior Centers for Behavioral and Preventive Medicine Brown Medical School and The Miriam Hospital Wednesday, December 4, 2019 Butler Hospital ◊ Ray Hall Conference Center ◊ 11:00 am - 12:30 pm Objectives: At the conclusion of this presentation, participants should be able to: Describe the iterative process of intervention development; Explain the value of early process qualitative work; Discuss considerations for choosing technology platforms; and Explain the relative advantages of text messaging versus smartphone apps Disclosure: Beth Bock, PhD has no financial relationships to disclose. This activity is not supported by a commercial entity. Academic Grand Rounds* Developing mobile interventions to promote health behavior change: Examples in Alcohol and Smoking (Psychiatry and Human Behavior) Dec 3 12:00pm - 1:00pm B-Lab & Brown Venture Prize Info Session (Dec.3) 1 Euclid Avenue, Providence RI 02908 Brown University’s Breakthrough Lab (B-Lab) is an intensive 8-week accelerator program designed to support student entrepreneurs developing high-impact ventures. We are agnostic to what type of venture we except into B-Lab and work with ventures from all backgrounds, from e-commerce to social impact. Each participating venture receives access to custom mentoring, a peer cohort of dedicated founders, co-working space, and a $4,000 summer stipend (per student). The Brown Venture Prize is designed to empower the most advanced entrepreneurial ventures by Brown students. It supports teams who have identified a significant opportunity, and whose ventures have the potential to create “impact at scale”. The prize is agnostic with respect to what sectors or industries ventures are working in, or even whether they are commercial, social, or have blended approaches. The essential thing is that teams have identified an opportunity or challenge and are thinking big about how to solve it. The Brown Venture Prize is intended to help them accelerate and scale those solutions. Winners will receive prize money, critical mentorship, and access to leaders in the Brown entrepreneurial community and beyond. Learn more about the two programs and ask questions about the application process. In addition to meeting students that participated in the programs, you will meet the Nelson Center team: Jason Harry, Director of Breakthrough Lab; Jonas Clark, Nelson Center, Associate Director; and Liz Malone, Assistant Director for Programs – who work with you during the whole process, coaching and cheering you on. If you just want to learn more or are thinking about applying to either program, join us! Lunch will be served. RSVP Here. B-Lab & Brown Venture Prize Info Session (Dec.3) (Jonathan M. Nelson Center for Entrepreneurship) Entrepreneurship, Graduate School, Postgraduate Education, Teaching & Learning Dec 2 12:00pm - 5:00pm Math’s Bubbling (Not!) Over at ICERM 121 South Main Street The National Museum of Mathematics founder Glen Whitney will be leading a participatory building activity at ICERM. Join us in our 11th-floor lecture hall at 121 S. Main Street, on Monday, Dec. 2. Please drop in anytime between 12 PM-5 PM to lend a hand and visit/chat with the participants of the Illustrating Mathematics program. In 1887, William Thomson, Lord Kelvin made a shrewd guess about the shape that numerous bubbles all the same volume would adopt when clustered together. He thought they would end up all identical, with six square facets and eight hexagonal ones. For slightly over a century, nobody was able to validate or refute Kelvin’s guess. Then in 1994 Irish physicists Denis Weaire and Robert Phelan discovered an elegant arrangement even more attractive to the bubbles, bursting Kelvin’s claim. Still, in the quarter-century since that time, nobody has been able to establish that this Weaire-Phelan foam, as it’s called, is truly the bubbles’ ideal state. Join the ICERM community of colleagues and friends to build a human-scale model of Weaire and Phelan’s surprising discovery about the nature of bubbles. Gain insight and appreciation for the surprising depth and beauty of everyday phenomena, that in this case led to a riddle that may stump and inspire problem-solvers for another 107 years. Math’s Bubbling (Not!) Over at ICERM (Institute for Computational and Experimental Research in Mathematics (ICERM)) Nov 22 3:30pm Data @ Brown: Poster Session 164 Angell Street Join us in the DSI space to see some of the interesting data science research taking place in departments and units throughout Brown. Recipients of DSI grants and others will be sharing their projects. Light refreshments too! Data @ Brown: Poster Session Biology, Medicine, Public Health, Mathematics, Technology, Engineering, Physical & Earth Sciences, Psychology & Cognitive Sciences, Research, Social Sciences Nov 22 1:00pm Community Wellness Informatics: Designing Technology for Health Equity Watson Center for Information Technology (CIT) Community Wellness Informatics: Designing Technology for Health Equity In the United States, there are serious and persistent disparities in health outcomes. For example, socioeconomic status is predictive of mortality and disease, with low-SES households disproportionately experiencing the poorest health outcomes. This inequality is due in large part to the social determinants of health—social, physical, and economic conditions that make it more challenging to achieve wellness in low-SES communities. Disruptive innovations are sorely needed to reduce health disparities. Information and communication technologies (ICTs), with their growing ubiquity and ability to provide engaging, informative, and empowering experiences for people, present exciting opportunities for health equity research. In this talk, I will present a set of case studies demonstrating work I’ve done to design, build, and evaluate how novel interactive computing experiences can address issues of health equity. These case studies investigate how social, mobile, and civic technology can help low-SES communities to both cope with barriers to wellness and address these barriers directly. Using findings from this research, I will articulate opportunities and challenges for community wellness informatics—research that explores how ICTs can empower collectives to collaboratively pursue health and wellness goals. Andrea Grimes Parker is an Assistant Professor at Northeastern University, with joint appointments in the Khoury College of Computer Sciences and the Bouvé College of Health Sciences. She is also a faculty scholar in Northeastern University’s Institute for Health Equity and Social Justice Research. She holds a Ph.D. in Human-Centered Computing from Georgia Tech and a B.S. in Computer Science from Northeastern University. Dr. Parker is the founder and director of the Wellness Technology Lab at Northeastern. Her interdisciplinary research spans the domains of human-computer interaction (HCI) and public health, as she examines how social and ubiquitous computing systems can be designed to promote wellness in vulnerable and marginalized populations. Dr. Parker’s research has been funded through grants from the National Science Foundation, the National Institutes of Health, and the Aetna Foundation. She has served on the program committees for the top conferences in HCI (e.g., ACM CHI, CSCW) and received several best paper nominations in these premier venues. From 2014-2016, Dr. Parker served as the National Evaluator for the Aetna Foundation’s portfolio of projects on mobile health interventions in community settings. Community Wellness Informatics: Designing Technology for Health Equity Nov 22 12:00pm DSCoV: DataLad 164 Angell Street Data Science Computing and Visualization Workshop (DSCoV) Topic: DataLad Instructor: Yaroslav Halchenko DataLad provides a data portal and a versioning system for everyone, DataLad lets you have your data and control it too. For details, see https://www.datalad.org/. Friday, November 22 , 12:00 PM 164 Angell Street, 4th Floor Innovation Space Organized by CCV; Sponsored by DSI DSCoV: DataLad Nov 21 5:30pm - 7:30pm Closing Reception for Math+Art Exhibit Granoff Center for the Creative Arts Come celebrate the final evening of the successful Math+Art exhibit. The curated art on display is affiliated with ICERM’s fall “Illustrating Mathematics” semester-long research conference which brings together artists, makers, and mathematicians seeking to harness the creativity of mathematical illustrations to further the public’s understanding of mathematical research. All are invited to enjoy light refreshments while mingling with ICERM’s visiting artists and mathematicians, renowned local artists, ”Gallery Night Providence” trolley participants, and members of the community. ICERM is grateful to the National Science Foundation and the Alfred P. Sloan Foundation award G-2019-11406 for making this event possible. Granoff Center at Brown University 154 Angell Street, Providence, RI 02912 Atrium Gallery Closing Reception for Math+Art Exhibit (Institute for Computational and Experimental Research in Mathematics (ICERM)) Mathematics, Art, STEM, Research Nov 21 3:00pm From Spatial to Platial Data Science 164 Angell Street The availability of massive amounts of user-generated data has changed the way that spatial science research is conducted today as data synthesis and advanced computational equipment are now often a fundamental part of the scientific process. With the increased availability of these data, it is becoming apparent that the value of “big data” lies not necessarily in its size, but in its heterogeneity. As recent progress in data analytics and ambient intelligence is met with sensor-enabled mobile technology, geographic information science has pushed beyond “spatial” to incorporate non-explicitly geospatial contextual data. This heterogeneous “digital exhaust” has led us to develop computational, data-driven models of human behavior and take a multi-dimensional approach to investigating “place” and the activities people carry out at places. In this talk, Prof. Grant McKenzie will champion this move towards Platial data science through his research on reverse geocoding, language-based tourist attraction similarity, and shared micro-mobility services. Grant McKenzie is an assistant professor in the Department of Geography at McGill University in Montreal, Canada where he leads the Platial Analysis Lab, an interdisciplinary research group that works at the intersection of data science and behavioral geography. Co-sponsored by S4, PSTC, Data Science Initiative, Department of Sociology, and Department of Biostatistics & Center for Statistical Sciences. Part of the Re-Imagining Data Visualization Lectureship Series 2019-20 funded by the Herbert H. Goldberger Lectureship Fund. From Spatial to Platial Data Science Nov 20 3:30pm - 5:00pm Research Integrity Series: Research Misconduct and Brown University Policies This course is designed to fulfill the NIH requirements for training in the Responsible Conduct of Research (RCR), and is coordinated by the Office of Graduate and Postdoctoral Studies (OGPS) in the Division of Biology and Medicine at Brown. The Research Integrity Series for Faculty consists of core and elective modules, with content and discussion topics aimed at more experienced scholars in the biomedical and clinical sciences. Requirements: Faculty must complete a minimum of 8 hours of in-person core and elective content in order to receive RCR certification. Faculty who began training in this course last year and have yet to complete their 8 hours may continue with this year’s series. Faculty registered for this course may apply up to 1 hr of in-person external RCR training (for example, a departmental workshop, class, or seminar relating to a topic covered in this class). Attendees must provide OGPS with verification of attendance for tracking purposes. Registration is required to attend. More information about the trainings will be distributed prior to the event. To register, please fill out this form. Schedule: Wednesday, November 20th, 3:30 - 5pm Dr. Keri Godin, Research Misconduct and Brown University Policies (Note that this is one of the required trainings) Wednesday, December 4th, 3:30-5pm Dr. Elizabeth Harrington and Dr. Audra Van Wart, Rigor, Reproducibility, and Transparency (Note that this is one of the required trainings) SPRING Session (Dates are TBD but will include the following topics): Mentorship (2 hrs), Running a Lab, *Human Subjects/Animal Research, Data Management and Ownership Research Integrity Series: Research Misconduct and Brown University Policies (Advance-CTR) Biology, Medicine, Public Health, Education, Teaching, Instruction, Research, Training, Professional Development Nov 18 12:00pm - 3:00pm CBC Seminar: Ingenuity Pathway Analysis (IPA) Lunch & Learn 70 Ship Street The Computational Biology Core is hosting Qiagen who will present the Igenuity Pathway Analyses (IPA) Lunch & Learn Seminar on Monday, November 18, 2019, from 12 noon to 2 p.m. to be followed by a 1-hour Q&A Session. This will be held at 70 Ship Street, Room 107. Registration is required and lunch will be provided. Please register by emailing: [email protected]. During this seminar you will learn how to: Upload data, run core analyses and view summary Use IPA to build networks and generate hypotheses Quickly generate a molecular profile of a disease, phenotype or function, accessing underlying literature and evidence of mechanistic relationships Find master regulators and causal reasoning of effects in omics profiles New Functionality! Analysis Match automatically identifies curated IPA datasets with significant similarities and differences, enabling you to compare results, validate interpretation and better understand causal connections between diseases, genes, and networks of upstream regulators. Library of core analyses, generated from curated human and mouse disease and oncology datasets (from SRA, GEO, Array Express, TCGA and more). 12:00 PM to 2:00 PM IPA Lunch Seminar 2:00 PM to 3:00 PM Q & A Session Instructor: Eric Seiser, PhD, Field Application Scientist, Qiagen CBC Seminar: Ingenuity Pathway Analysis (IPA) Lunch & Learn (Center for Computational Biology of Human Disease (COBRE)) Biology, Medicine, Public Health, Mathematics, Technology, Engineering, Psychology & Cognitive Sciences, Research Nov 15 12:00pm CANCELED: DSCoV: HPC Fundamentals 164 Angell Street Data Science Computing and Visualization Workshop (DSCoV) Want to be a software master, start a tech company, or succeed in research? Ready to get your hands dirty and learn the data science and programming skills needed to solve real-world data science problems? Come to a DSCoV workshop! Open to all members of the Brown community, these lunch-hour workshops are led by Brown faculty, staff, and students. THIS WEEK’S TOPIC: HPC Fundamentals INSTRUCTOR: Helen Kershaw Registration is necessary; limited to 40 participants. Friday, November 15, 12:00 PM 164 Angell Street, 4thFloor Innovation Space. Organized by Center for Computation and Visualization Sponsored by the DataScienceInitiative Pizza and soda will be served. CANCELED: DSCoV: HPC Fundamentals Nov 14 12:00pm - 1:30pm Carney Workshop: “The RENKU data science platform” - Christine Choirat, Ph.D. 164 Angell Street RENKU is an open data science platform, produced through a joint venture of EPFL and ETH Zurich, that fosters research reproducibility, reusability, and collaboration, along with secure, federated, and discoverable data access. RENKU supports versioning of data and code, and tracks which results were produced by whom and when. Users can retrieve history and data provenance, go back in time to every step of published science, and reuse previously built tools in an infrastructure agnostic environment. More information can be found at https://datascience.ch/renku/. In this “bring your own data” workshop, Christine Choirat will first describe RENKU’s motivation and capabilities, lead open discussion of community needs, and guide hands-on creation of workflows and pipelines using the platform. Participants should feel free to bring their own laptops and data pipeline problems, or just observe to learn more about the available software tools. Host: Jason Ritt Presenter: Christine Choirat Chief Innovation Officer, Swiss Data Science Center Bio: Dr. Christine Choirat is Chief Innovation Officer at the Swiss Data Science Center, a unique joint venture between EPFL and ETH Zurich. The Center’s mission is to accelerate the use of data science and machine learning techniques within academic disciplines of the ETH Domain, the Swiss academic community at large, and the industrial sector. Dr. Choirat received her PhD in Applied Mathematics from Paris Dauphine University. She joined the Swiss Data Science Center in 2019, from the Harvard T. H. Chan School of Public Health, where she was a Senior Research Scientist and an instructor in the Master of Science in Health Data Science. Her research interests are statistical software, reproducible workflows, and environmental policy and health policy. Carney Workshop: “The RENKU data science platform” - Christine Choirat, Ph.D. Nov 14 12:00pm - 1:30pm Carney Workshop: “The RENKU data science platform” - Christine Choirat, Ph.D. 164 Angell Street RENKU is an open data science platform, produced through a joint venture of EPFL and ETH Zurich, that fosters research reproducibility, reusability, and collaboration, along with secure, federated, and discoverable data access. RENKU supports versioning of data and code, and tracks which results were produced by whom and when. Users can retrieve history and data provenance, go back in time to every step of published science, and reuse previously built tools in an infrastructure agnostic environment. More information can be found at https://datascience.ch/renku/. In this “bring your own data” workshop, Christine Choirat will first describe RENKU’s motivation and capabilities, lead open discussion of community needs, and guide hands-on creation of workflows and pipelines using the platform. Participants should feel free to bring their own laptops and data pipeline problems, or just observe to learn more about the available software tools. Host: Jason Ritt Presenter: Christine Choirat Chief Innovation Officer, Swiss Data Science Center Bio: Dr. Christine Choirat is Chief Innovation Officer at the Swiss Data Science Center, a unique joint venture between EPFL and ETH Zurich. The Center’s mission is to accelerate the use of data science and machine learning techniques within academic disciplines of the ETH Domain, the Swiss academic community at large, and the industrial sector. Dr. Choirat received her PhD in Applied Mathematics from Paris Dauphine University. She joined the Swiss Data Science Center in 2019, from the Harvard T. H. Chan School of Public Health, where she was a Senior Research Scientist and an instructor in the Master of Science in Health Data Science. Her research interests are statistical software, reproducible workflows, and environmental policy and health policy. Carney Workshop: “The RENKU data science platform” - Christine Choirat, Ph.D. (Carney Institute for Brain Science) Nov 13 4:00pm - 5:00pm COBRE CBHD Seminar: Tolerance of Viral/Bacterial Co-infections: Using bioinformatics to discover essential pathways in surviving infection 164 Angell Street Please join the COBRE Center for Computational Biology of Human Disease, the Center for Computational Molecular Biology, and the Data Science Initiative for the COBRE CBHD Seminar. Amanda Jamieson, Ph.D., is an Assistant Professor of Molecular Microbiology and Immunology at Brown University and is one of the COBRE Center for Computational Biology of Human Disease’s success stories. She graduated from the COBRE program by receiving peer-reviewed funding. PLEASE NOTE: You will need to swipe your Brown ID before pressing the 3rd-floor button in the elevator to gain access to the third floor. Any Brown ID should work during business hours. COBRE CBHD Seminar: Tolerance of Viral/Bacterial Co-infections: Using bioinformatics to discover essential pathways in surviving infection (Center for Computational Biology of Human Disease (COBRE)) Biology, Medicine, Public Health, Mathematics, Technology, Engineering, Research Nov 12 12:00pm DSI Industry Insight: Vertica Systems 164 Angell Street THE VERTICA ANALYTIC DATABASE: AN INNOVATIVE STORAGE ARCHITECTURE AND ITS EVOLUTION Ryan Roelke Senior Software Engineer, Vertica Systems Vertica is one of the leading database management systems for Big Data analytics. In Vertica’s early days, customers trying out Vertica would have their database inquiries run up to 1000 times faster compared to their current database system. Fifteen years later, competing database management systems are catching up in query performance, but Vertica’s recent adaptations to a world of cloud computing have kept it ahead in its ability to scale increasingly-demanding workloads. This talk will discuss how Vertica’s innovative storage layer was able to achieve such large performance improvements in the early days, and how Vertica has adapted its storage architecture to capitalize on the prevalence of cloud computing. Tuesday, November 12 12:00 PM - 1:00 PM 164 Angell Street, 3rd Floor Sponsored by the Data Science Initiative DSI Industry Insight: Vertica Systems Nov 11 6:00pm Math+Art Panel Discussion 121 South Main Street Please join us at ICERM to enjoy this final in a series of five panel discussions on Math + Art. These discussions feature participants in ICERM’s Illustrating Mathematics Fall 2019 program, artists, and RISD faculty. The panels focus on the different ways in which artists and mathematicians approach mathematical concepts. We expect a dynamic conversation that will spark continued dialogue and future collaborations. Math+Art Panel Discussion (Institute for Computational and Experimental Research in Mathematics (ICERM)) Nov 11 8:30am Illustrating Dynamics and Probability November 11-15, 2019 121 South Main Street This workshop will focus on the theoretical insights developed via illustration, visualization, and computational experiment in dynamical systems and probability theory. Some topics from complex dynamics include: dynamical moduli spaces and their dynamically-defined subvarieties, degenerations of dynamical systems as one moves toward the boundary of moduli space, and the structure of algebraic data coming from a family of dynamical systems. In classical dynamical systems, some topics include: flows on hyperbolic spaces and Lorentz attractors, simple physical systems like billiards in two and three dimensional domains, and flows on moduli spaces. In probability theory, the workshop features: random walks and continuous time random processes like Brownian motion, SLE, and scaling limits of discrete systems. Illustrating Dynamics and Probability November 11-15, 2019 (General) Mathematics, Technology, Engineering Nov 8 12:00pm DSCoV: Intro to GPU and CUDA 164 Angell Street Data Science Computing and Visualization Workshop (DSCoV) Want to be a software master, start a tech company, or succeed in research? Ready to get your hands dirty and learn the data science and programming skills needed to solve real-world data science problems? Come to a DSCoV workshop! Open to all members of the Brown community, these lunch-hour workshops are led by Brown faculty, staff, and students. THIS WEEK’S TOPIC: Intro to GPU and CUDA INSTRUCTOR: Khemraj Shukla Registration is necessary; limited to 40 participants. Friday, November 8, 12:00 PM 164 Angell Street, 4thFloor Innovation Space. Organized by Center for Computation and Visualization Sponsored by the DataScienceInitiative Pizza and soda will be served. DSCoV: Intro to GPU and CUDA Nov 8 9:00am - 12:00pm CBC Fundamentals of R Workshop Watson Center for Information Technology (CIT) Please join the Computational Biology Core (CBC) as we host the Introduction to R Workshop. The CBC staff at Brown University will provide training and information on the basics of the R ecosystem. The goal is to ensure that participants have gained a basic, working knowledge of R. Please register at the link below. DATE: Friday, November 8, 2019 TIME: 9:00 a.m. to 12:00 p.m. LOCATION: CIT SWIG Boardroom (Room 241) 115 Waterman Street, Providence, RI 02912 BRING: Laptop with wireless capabilities and plug. REGISTER: https://forms.gle/Q8QexQYZMXnK3KtRA In this workshop you’ll learn: Basics of R (objects, variables, data classes, vectors) How to use and write R functions How to import and export your data How to install and load R and Bioconductor packages CBC Fundamentals of R Workshop (Center for Computational Biology of Human Disease (COBRE)) Biology, Medicine, Public Health, Mathematics, Technology, Engineering, Research Nov 7 8:00am - 4:00pm Advance-CTR Open House 233 Richmond Street Come by our Open House on Thursday, November 7 to see what Advance-CTR is offering investigators this fall. Activities include: Complimentary, professional headshots Exclusive Good Clinical Practice Live registration for the first 5 attendees (course eligibility applies) Meet our Service Cores: Are you getting the most out of our Service Cores? See what resources, educational offerings, and expertise are available to help you in your research Biomedical Informatics Core: 9-11:30 a.m. & 2-4 p.m. Biostatistics and Research Design Core: 8:30-11 a.m. & 1-4 p.m. Clinical Research Core: 1-4 p.m. Plus, snacks, games and more! We look forward to seeing you there! Advance-CTR Open House (Advance-CTR) Biology, Medicine, Public Health, Education, Teaching, Instruction, Research, Social Sciences, Training, Professional Development Nov 6 4:00pm Data Wednesday: Sanjay Krishnan, UChicago 164 Angell Street Deep Lens: A Multimedia Database System for Fast and Accurate Video Analytics Sanjay Krishnan, UChicago The increasing sophistication of computer vision algorithms enables new types of automated analysis visual data. The DeepLens project explores a future where the primary consumers of streaming video are not human viewers but analytics algorithms – accordingly revisiting storage, compression, and retrieval with this change in mind. This talk presents three projects: (dl-storage) a video storage engine optimized for algorithmic video retrieval, (dl-pipelines) a distributed stream processing engine optimized for visual payloads, (dl-mt) neural network training and evaluation in resource-constrained multi-tenant environments. In all three of these projects, a core theme is to take a classical database systems problem, such as data skipping or concurrency, and determine what changes under visual analytics workloads. This talk concludes by presenting applications of DeepLens to traffic analytics and robotic surgery, and performance results that demonstrate scaling to over 1000 hours of high definition video per computing node. Sanjay Krishnan is an Assistant Professor of Computer Science at the University of Chicago. His research studies the intersection of machine learning and computer systems. Sanjay completed his PhD and Master’s Degree at the University of California, Berkeley in Computer Science in 2018. Sanjay’s work has received numerous awards including the 2016 SIGMOD Best Demonstration award, the 2015 IEEE GHTC Best Paper award, and the Sage Scholar award. Data Wednesday: Sanjay Krishnan, UChicago Nov 1 3:00pm CCV-Con Day 5: Keynote, Panel, Reception 164 Angell Street The Brown University Center for Computation and Visualization (CCV) is proud to announce its first annual conference! This will feature talks and workshops related to a broad range of topics in research computing, including: high-performance computing, machine learning, reproducible science, data visualization, bioinformatics, research infrastructure, and software engineering. The Conference will be from 3:00 to 5:00 pm each day at the Data Science Initiative on the 3rd floor of 164 Angell St. Attendees are welcome to register for any number of sessions - registration can be found at ccv.brown.edu/ccvcon. The first 50 registered attendees to arrive each day will receive a swag-of-the-day. CCV-Con Day 5: Keynote, Panel, Reception (General) Biology, Medicine, Public Health, Government, Public & International Affairs, Graduate School, Postgraduate Education, Mathematics, Technology, Engineering, Physical & Earth Sciences, Psychology & Cognitive Sciences, Research, Social Sciences, Training, Professional Development Nov 1 12:00pm DSCoV: Cloud Computing with Google 164 Angell Street Data Science Computing and Visualization Workshop (DSCoV) Want to be a software master, start a tech company, or succeed in research? Ready to get your hands dirty and learn the data science and programming skills needed to solve real-world data science problems? Come to a DSCoV workshop! Open to all members of the Brown community, these lunch-hour workshops are led by Brown faculty, staff, and students. THIS WEEK’S TOPIC: Cloud computing with Google Cloud Platform, interacting with and using the Compute Engine INSTRUCTOR: Isabel Restrepo Registration is necessary; limited to 40 participants. Friday, November 1, 12:00 PM 164 Angell Street, 4thFloor Innovation Space. Organized by Center for Computation and Visualization Sponsored by the DataScienceInitiative Pizza and soda will be served. DSCoV: Cloud Computing with Google Oct 31 3:00pm CCV-Con Day 4: High Performance Computing 164 Angell Street The Brown University Center for Computation and Visualization (CCV) is proud to announce its first annual conference! This will feature talks and workshops related to a broad range of topics in research computing, including: high-performance computing, machine learning, reproducible science, data visualization, bioinformatics, research infrastructure, and software engineering. The Conference will be from 3:00 to 5:00 pm each day at the Data Science Initiative on the 3rd floor of 164 Angell St. Attendees are welcome to register for any number of sessions - registration can be found at ccv.brown.edu/ccvcon. The first 50 registered attendees to arrive each day will receive a swag-of-the-day. CCV-Con Day 4: High Performance Computing (General) Biology, Medicine, Public Health, Government, Public & International Affairs, Graduate School, Postgraduate Education, Mathematics, Technology, Engineering, Physical & Earth Sciences, Psychology & Cognitive Sciences, Research, Social Sciences, Training, Professional Development Oct 30 6:00pm - 7:00pm CANCELED: ICERM Public Lecture: The nth Perspective Granoff Center for the Creative Arts Due to unforeseen circumstances, ICERM’s public lecture, “The nth Perspective” has been canceled. But the reception is still on! Come enjoy light refreshments and the opportunity to interact with the artists-in-residence affiliated with our Illustrating Mathematics semester program and featured in the “Math+Art” exhibit now on display in Granoff’s Atrium Gallery. CANCELED: ICERM Public Lecture: The nth Perspective (Institute for Computational and Experimental Research in Mathematics (ICERM)) Arts, Performance, Mathematics, Technology, Engineering Oct 30 3:00pm CCV-Con Day 3: Data Science 164 Angell Street The Brown University Center for Computation and Visualization (CCV) is proud to announce its first annual conference! This will feature talks and workshops related to a broad range of topics in research computing, including: high-performance computing, machine learning, reproducible science, data visualization, bioinformatics, research infrastructure, and software engineering. The Conference will be from 3:00 to 5:00 pm each day at the Data Science Initiative on the 3rd floor of 164 Angell St. Attendees are welcome to register for any number of sessions - registration can be found at ccv.brown.edu/ccvcon. The first 50 registered attendees to arrive each day will receive a swag-of-the-day. CCV-Con Day 3: Data Science (General) Biology, Medicine, Public Health, Government, Public & International Affairs, Graduate School, Postgraduate Education, Mathematics, Technology, Engineering, Physical & Earth Sciences, Psychology & Cognitive Sciences, Research, Social Sciences, Training, Professional Development Oct 30 12:00pm - 4:30pm Advance-CTR Mentoring Training 121 South Main Street Join Advance-CTR for the next installment of our highly rated Mentoring Training Program on October 23 and 30 at the Brown University School of Public Health. This is part two of the two part session. You must attend both session in order to received the completion certificate. Faculty who mentor junior investigators are encouraged to take advantage of this opportunity to grow as a research mentor and connect with colleagues.Participants will learn how to improve their relationships with mentees and become more effective mentors to junior investigators. This training will be facilitated by Suzanne Colby, PhD, and Michael Mello, MD, MPH, who are trained by the National Research Mentoring Network to facilitate this nationally recognized mentoring curriculum. This peer-driven program expands mentors’ knowledge through exposure to the experiences of all participants. Attendees will engage with as many mentoring experiences as they would typically handle in a decade. Faculty who mentor junior investigators who conduct clinical and translational research are encouraged to apply. Preference will be given to more senior mentors. Learn more about the program on AdvanceCTR.org, or click the link above to register. Advance-CTR Mentoring Training (Advance-CTR) Biology, Medicine, Public Health, Research, Training, Professional Development Oct 29 3:00pm CCV-Con Day 2: Research Infrastructure, Visualization 164 Angell Street The Brown University Center for Computation and Visualization (CCV) is proud to announce its first annual conference! This will feature talks and workshops related to a broad range of topics in research computing, including: high-performance computing, machine learning, reproducible science, data visualization, bioinformatics, research infrastructure, and software engineering. The Conference will be from 3:00 to 5:00 pm each day at the Data Science Initiative on the 3rd floor of 164 Angell St. Attendees are welcome to register for any number of sessions - registration can be found at ccv.brown.edu/ccvcon. The first 50 registered attendees to arrive each day will receive a swag-of-the-day. CCV-Con Day 2: Research Infrastructure, Visualization (General) Biology, Medicine, Public Health, Government, Public & International Affairs, Graduate School, Postgraduate Education, Mathematics, Technology, Engineering, Physical & Earth Sciences, Psychology & Cognitive Sciences, Research, Social Sciences, Training, Professional Development Oct 28 3:00pm CCV-Con Day 1: Reproducible Science 164 Angell Street The Brown University Center for Computation and Visualization (CCV) is proud to announce its first annual conference! This will feature talks and workshops related to a broad range of topics in research computing, including: high-performance computing, machine learning, reproducible science, data visualization, bioinformatics, research infrastructure, and software engineering. The Conference will be from 3:00 to 5:00 pm each day at the Data Science Initiative on the 3rd floor of 164 Angell St. Attendees are welcome to register for any number of sessions - registration can be found at ccv.brown.edu/ccvcon. The first 50 registered attendees to arrive each day will receive a swag-of-the-day. CCV-Con Day 1: Reproducible Science (General) Biology, Medicine, Public Health, Graduate School, Postgraduate Education, Mathematics, Technology, Engineering, Physical & Earth Sciences, Psychology & Cognitive Sciences, Research, Social Sciences, Training, Professional Development Oct 25 1:00pm - 2:00pm Data Use Agreement Training Horace Mann House Data Use Agreement Training Did you know that there are only two authorized signatory officials at Brown for Data Use Agreements? Do you know what to do if you’re presented with electronic terms & conditions for data use when accessing a data set electronically? Do you know how to self-classify data in accordance with CIS’ Risk Levels? Join the Office of Research Integrity to learn the answers to these questions and more! We’ll go over policies and procedures for receiving data from external sources and sending data outside of Brown, and CIS will talk about Data Risk Classifications. This training is open to anyone at Brown; light refreshments available. October 25, 2019 Horace Mann building, Room 103 47 George Street Data Use Agreement Training (Office of the Vice President for Research) ORI, OVPR, Training, Professional Development Oct 25 12:00pm DSCoV: Deep Learning for $150 164 Angell Street Data Science Computing and Visualization Workshop (DSCoV) Want to be a software master, start a tech company, or succeed in research? Ready to get your hands dirty and learn the data science and programming skills needed to solve real-world data science problems? Come to a DSCoV workshop! Open to all members of the Brown community, these lunch-hour workshops are led by Brown faculty, staff, and students. THIS WEEK’S TOPIC: Deep learning for $150? INSTRUCTOR: Lakshmi Govindarajan Computing infrastructure for running inference on deep neural networks is usually a bottleneck due to the associated costs, handling expertise. In this tutorial we will look at a solution coupling the Raspberry Pi and one of Intel’s tools, the Neural Compute Stick, to alleviate some of these concerns. Minimal exposure to Python, Unix, Tensorflow would be helpful. Registration is necessary; limited to 40 participants. Friday, October 25, 12:00 PM 164 Angell Street, 4thFloor Innovation Space. Organized by Center for Computation and Visualization Sponsored by the DataScienceInitiative Pizza and soda will be served. DSCoV: Deep Learning for $150 Oct 23 4:00pm Data Wednesday Seminar: Dr. Hamish Fraser (BCBI) 164 Angell Street Diagnostic Decision Support for Patients: Opportunities and Risks Diagnosis has always been a core part of medical care and recently it has become an important area for research as new studies highlight the frequency and importance of misdiagnosis. Along with this trend, is a rapid growth in diagnostic decision support systems. These have a long history in health informatics primarily designed for physician use, recent systems increasingly target patients. Often termed Symptom Checkers, these web based tools or mobile apps claim to assist in diagnosis and/or triage decisions. In this presentation, he will review the types of symptom checkers available, the potential benefits and risks for patients, and the surprising lack of evaluation studies and evidence of safety. He will also discuss his research in this area and upcoming studies particularly focused on heart disease and emergency care. HAMISH FRASER, M.B.Ch.B., M.R.C.P., M.Sc., FACMI, IAHSI Associate Professor of Medical Science, Brown Center for Biomedical Informatics, Brown University Associate Professor of eHealth, Leeds Institute of Health Sciences, University of Leeds, United Kingdom Dr. Fraser trained in General Medicine, Cardiology, and Knowledge-Based systems at Edinburgh University. He completed a fellowship in clinical decision making at MIT with a focus on diagnostic decision support for heart disease. His work has also focused on developing medical informatics tools for some of the most challenging environments in low income countries. As Director of Informatics at the leading Healthcare NGO Partners in Health, he co-founded and co-leads OpenMRS, an open source EMR project. He was an Assistant Professor of Medicine at Harvard Medical School from 2006-2015. His main academic focus is in the evaluation of medical information systems and understanding the impact of information and communications worldwide. Dr. Fraser also focuses on improvement of care for non-communicable diseases, particularly heart disease. His recent work at Brown University has focused on diagnostic decision support systems for patients with heart disease and emergency care. Data Wednesday Seminar: Dr. Hamish Fraser (BCBI) Biology, Medicine, Public Health, Mathematics, Technology, Engineering Oct 23 3:30pm - 5:00pm Research Integrity Series: Responsible Authorship and Peer Review his course is designed to fulfill the NIH requirements for training in the Responsible Conduct of Research (RCR), and is coordinated by the Office of Graduate and Postdoctoral Studies (OGPS) in the Division of Biology and Medicine at Brown. The Research Integrity Series for Faculty consists of core and elective modules, with content and discussion topics aimed at more experienced scholars in the biomedical and clinical sciences. Requirements: Faculty must complete a minimum of 8 hours of in-person core and elective content in order to receive RCR certification. Faculty who began training in this course last year and have yet to complete their 8 hours may continue with this year’s series. Faculty registered for this course may apply up to 1 hr of in-person external RCR training (for example, a departmental workshop, class, or seminar relating to a topic covered in this class). Attendees must provide OGPS with verification of attendance for tracking purposes. Registration is required to attend. More information about the trainings will be distributed prior to the event. To register, please fill out this form. Schedule: Wednesday, October 23rd, 3:30 - 5pm Dr. Audra Van Wart, Responsible Authorship and Peer Review Wednesday, November 20th, 3:30 - 5pm Dr. Keri Godin, Research Misconduct and Brown University Policies (Note that this is one of the required trainings) Wednesday, December 4th, 3:30-5pm Dr. Elizabeth Harrington and Dr. Audra Van Wart, Rigor, Reproducibility, and Transparency (Note that this is one of the required trainings) SPRING Session (Dates are TBD but will include the following topics): Mentorship (2 hrs), Running a Lab, *Human Subjects/Animal Research, Data Management and Ownership Research Integrity Series: Responsible Authorship and Peer Review (Advance-CTR) Biology, Medicine, Public Health, Education, Teaching, Instruction, Research, Training, Professional Development Oct 23 1:30pm - 2:30pm Open Access Week: Special Presentation 121 South Main Street Open Access and Scientific Publishing The landscape of scientific publishing continues to change rapidly, particularly since the emergence of Open Access publishing models. While researchers enjoy a growing array of options to make their work available to other scientists and the general public, the proliferation of competing publishing models and venues can prove difficult to navigate. This informational session is intended to help both new and established researchers make educated decisions when it comes time to publish their scientific reports and/or data. We will seek to define the different publishing models (e.g., paywall/toll-access and open access), subtypes of open (e.g., green, bronze, gold), evolving copyright and licensing models (e.g., Creative Commons), and manuscript/data repositories. Finally, we will highlight a list of reliable resources containing information about potential venue(s) for various research outputs, including services available to students and faculty via the Brown University Library. We will be joined by Jason Gantenberg, MPH, PhD Candidate, School of Public Health; Erin Anthony, Biostatistics & Public Health Librarian, Rockefeller Library; and Andrew Creamer, Scientific Data Management Specialist, Rockefeller Library. Open Access Week: Special Presentation (School of Public Health) Biology, Medicine, Public Health, Libraries, Research Oct 23 12:00pm - 4:30pm Advance-CTR Mentoring Training 121 South Main Street Join Advance-CTR for the next installment of our highly rated Mentoring Training Program on October 23 and 30 at the Brown University School of Public Health. This is part one of the two part sessions. Both sessions must be completed in order to receive the certification. Faculty who mentor junior investigators are encouraged to take advantage of this opportunity to grow as a research mentor and connect with colleagues.Participants will learn how to improve their relationships with mentees and become more effective mentors to junior investigators. This training will be facilitated by Suzanne Colby, PhD, and Michael Mello, MD, MPH, who are trained by the National Research Mentoring Network to facilitate this nationally recognized mentoring curriculum. This peer-driven program expands mentors’ knowledge through exposure to the experiences of all participants. Attendees will engage with as many mentoring experiences as they would typically handle in a decade. Faculty who mentor junior investigators who conduct clinical and translational research are encouraged to apply. Preference will be given to more senior mentors. Learn more about the program on AdvanceCTR.org, or click the link above to register. Advance-CTR Mentoring Training (Advance-CTR) Biology, Medicine, Public Health, Research, Training, Professional Development Oct 19 11:00am Weekend Forum: Decrypting Encryption: A Conversation with Jill Pipher and Seny Kamara List Art Building Jill Pipher, Vice President for Research; Elisha Benjamin Andrews Professor of Mathematics Seny Kamara, Associate Professor of Computer Science Modern, or public key, cryptography was invented in the late 1970s. It makes it possible to send credit card numbers over the internet to a vendor you’ve never met or talked to; it is the foundation for digital signatures and digital currencies. At the beginning, governments tried to suppress information about cryptographic algorithms. Now, with mass encryption of data in phones and texting apps, the tension between government law enforcement and cryptography is rising again. We will have an informal and interactive discussion about some of the history, the current political and social issues and what lies ahead in cryptography. Weekend Forum: Decrypting Encryption: A Conversation with Jill Pipher and Seny Kamara (Family Weekend) Oct 18 12:00pm DSCoV: PyTorch Tutorial 164 Angell Street Data Science Computing and Visualization Workshop (DSCoV) Want to be a software master, start a tech company, or succeed in research? Ready to get your hands dirty and learn the data science and programming skills needed to solve real-world data science problems? Come to a DSCoV workshop! Open to all members of the Brown community, these lunch-hour workshops are led by Brown faculty, staff, and students. THIS WEEK’S TOPIC: PyTorch Tutorial INSTRUCTOR: Minju Jung Registration is necessary; limited to 40 participants. Friday, October 18, 12:00 PM 164 Angell Street, 4thFloor Innovation Space. Organized by Center for Computation and Visualization Sponsored by the DataScienceInitiative Pizza and soda will be served. DSCoV: PyTorch Tutorial Oct 17 12:00pm - 1:00pm PSTC Colloquium: When Does Neighborhood Poverty Matter? Using Large-Scale Data to Understand Heterogeneity (Mario Small, Professor of Sociology, Harvard University) Mencoff Hall, 68 Waterman Street The Colloquium Series at the Population Studies and Training Center will host Mario Small, Professor of Sociology at Harvard University. His talk is titled “When Does Neighborhood Poverty Matter? Using Large-Scale Data to Understand Heterogeneity” and will examine how “big” data has furthered the understanding of neighborhood poverty in the context of race and class. Link: https://www.brown.edu/academics/population-studies/events PSTC Colloquium: When Does Neighborhood Poverty Matter? Using Large-Scale Data to Understand Heterogeneity (Mario Small, Professor of Sociology, Harvard University) (Population Studies and Training Center (PSTC)) Oct 16 4:00pm Data Wednesday Seminar: Julia Stoyanovich, NYU 164 Angell Street FOLLOW THE DATA! RESPONSIBLE DATA SCIENCE STARTS WITH RESPONSIBLE DATA MANAGEMENT Data science technology promises to improve people’s lives, accelerate scientific discovery and innovation, and bring about positive societal change. Yet if not used responsibly, this same technology can reinforce inequity, limit accountability, and infringe on the privacy of individuals. In this talk, Julia will discuss recent technical work in the scope of the “Data, Responsibly” project and connect technical insights on fairness, diversity, transparency, and data protection to ongoing regulatory efforts in the United States and elsewhere. JULIA STOYANOVICH Assistant Professor Dept. of Computer Science and Engineering Tandon School of Engineering Center for Data Science New York University Julia Stoyanovich is an Assistant Professor at New York University in the Department of Computer Science and Engineering at the Tandon School of Engineering, and the Center for Data Science. Julia’s research focuses on responsible data management and analysis practices: on operationalizing fairness, diversity, transparency, and data protection in all stages of the data acquisition and processing lifecycle. She established the Data, Responsibly consortium and serves on the New York City Automated Decision Systems Task Force,by appointment from Mayor de Blasio. In Spring 2019, Julia developed and taught a course on Responsible Data Science at NYU. In addtition to data ethics, Julia works on management and analysis of preference data, and on querying large evolving graphs. She holds a Master of Science and PhD degrees in Computer Science from Columbia University and a Bachelor of Science in Computer Science and in Math and Statistics from the University of Massachusetts, Amherst. Julia’s work has been funded by the NSF, BSF, and by industry. She is a recipient of an NSF Career Award and of an NSF/CRA CI Fellowship. Data Wednesday Seminar: Julia Stoyanovich, NYU Oct 15 3:00pm - 4:00pm “The challenges of obtaining and using high quality data sets for developing and testing diagnostic algorithms - focus on Symptom Assessment apps and Diagnostic Decision Support Systems” 55 Claverick Street We are excited to announce a joint seminar between the Emergency Digital Health Innovation program (EDHI) and the Brown Center for Biomedical Informatics (BCBI) featuring Ada Health Inc. Please join us on Tuesday, October 15 at 3:00 - 4:00p for a presentation on “The challenges of obtaining and using high quality data sets for developing and testing diagnostic algorithms - focus on Symptom Assessment apps and Diagnostic Decision Support Systems” Dr. Stephen Gilbert, PhD, MRes, BSc is the Clinical Evaluation Director at Ada Health. Dr. Gilbert is a clinical studies specialist and physiologist, and veterinary surgeon. He has over 10 years of experience in human physiology and trials including validating and clinically evaluating medical diagnostic and therapeutic devices, software, and drugs. He has worked for 13 years as a computational physiologist in research groups developing mathematical physiology and cell biology approaches. He has extensively published peer-reviewed research in these areas. Dr. Vishaal Virani is the Business Development & Client Successes Director at Ada Health. Dr. Virani is a physician by background and has been with Ada for nearly three years. He is focused on client partnerships and clinical evaluation at Ada, leading on the partnerships Ada has with Sutter Health and the NHS, among others. *Location: 55 Claverick Street, room 102 *Time: Tuesday, October 15, 2019 @ 3:00-4:00pm ***RSVP here, and we will send you the calendar invite*** Contact us at [email protected], [email protected], or [email protected] with any questions. We hope to see you there! “The challenges of obtaining and using high quality data sets for developing and testing diagnostic algorithms - focus on Symptom Assessment apps and Diagnostic Decision Support Systems” (Center for Biomedical Informatics (BCBI)) Oct 11 2:00pm DSI Special Event: Investigating Sports Bias 164 Angell Street INVESTIGATING SPORTS BIAS WITHIN A LARGE CORPUS OF AMERICAN FOOTBALL BROADCASTS MOHIT IYYER, PhD Assistant Professor, Computer Science University of Massachusetts, Amherst Sports broadcasters inject drama into play-by-play commentary by building team and player narratives through subjective analyses and anecdotes. Prior studies based on small datasets and manual coding show that such theatrics evince commentator bias in sports broadcasts. To examine this phenomenon, we assemble FOOTBALL, which contains 1,455 broadcast transcripts from American football games across six decades that are automatically annotated with 250,000 player mentions and linked with metadata. We identify major confounding factors for researchers examining racial bias in FOOTBALL, and perform a computational analysis that supports conclusions from prior social science studies. Mohit Iyyer is an assistant professor in computer science at UMass, Amherst. Previously, he was a Young Investigator at AI2. He completed his PhD at the University of Maryland, College Park, advised by Jordan Boyd-Graber and Hal Daumé III. His research interests lie broadly in natural language processing and machine learning. Much of his work uses deep learning to model language at the discourse level. Problems in this vein that he is currently excited about include efficiently generating coherent text, answering questions about documents, and understanding narratives in fictional text. Register to meet with Mohit here: https://bit.ly/2AReXx5 DSI Special Event: Investigating Sports Bias Oct 11 12:00pm DSCoV: nGraph Tutorial 164 Angell Street Data Science Computing and Visualization Workshop (DSCoV) Want to be a software master, start a tech company, or succeed in research? Ready to get your hands dirty and learn the data science and programming skills needed to solve real-world data science problems? Come to a DSCoV workshop! Open to all members of the Brown community, these lunch-hour workshops are led by Brown faculty, staff, and students. THIS WEEK’S TOPIC: nGraph Tutorial INSTRUCTOR: Hanlin Tang Registration is necessary; limited to 40 participants. Friday, October 11, 12:00 PM 164 Angell Street, 4thFloor Innovation Space. Organized by Center for Computation and Visualization Sponsored by the DataScienceInitiative Pizza and soda will be served. DSCoV: nGraph Tutorial Oct 10 12:00pm - 1:00pm Colloquium: Towards Automated Operation of Computing Systems (Ayse Coskun, Boston University) Watson Center for Information Technology (CIT) Today’s large-scale computers, such as high-performance computing clusters or the cloud, experience growing challenges in delivering predictable performance—and also, in maintaining efficiency, resilience, and security. Much of computer system management has traditionally relied on expert analysis and manual hands-on diagnostics. In this talk, I will demonstrate my group’s recent work on designing “automated analytics” methods for computing systems, leading the path towards a longer term vision where complex computing systems are able to self-manage and improve. Specifically, I will first talk about how to systematically diagnose root causes of performance variations (or “anomalies”) on large-scale computers, which cause substantial efficiency losses and higher cost in today’s supercomputers. Second, I will introduce machine learning-based methods to discover applications on HPC or cloud systems and discuss how such discoveries can help reduce vulnerabilities and avoid unwanted applications. This talk will also highlight methods for meaningful data collection from computing systems, demonstrate tools to help standardize study of performance anomalies, and point out future directions in automating computing system management. Prof. Ayse K. Coskun is currently an associate professor at Boston University (BU), Electrical and Computer Engineering Department. Her research interests include design automation, architecture, and systems, with a particular focus on energy efficiency and intelligent analytics for computing systems, spanning from small-scale mobile devices and emerging chip technologies to large-scale computers. She received her PhD degree from University of California San Diego (UCSD), Computer Science and Engineering Department. She worked at Sun Microsystems (now Oracle) prior to her appointment at BU. Prof. Coskun is currently an associate editor of the IEEE Transactions on Computers and serves in the executive committee of the IEEE Council on EDA (CEDA). She received the NSF CAREER award (2012), several best paper awards, and the IEEE CEDA Ernest Kuh Early Career Award (2017). Coskun was recently selected to attend the National Academy of Engineering’s Frontiers of Engineering Symposium in 2019. Host: Professor Iris Bahar Colloquium: Towards Automated Operation of Computing Systems (Ayse Coskun, Boston University) (Computer Science) Oct 10 12:00pm - 1:00pm Translational Research Seminar Series Providence VA Medical Center This month’s seminar features: Amin Zand Vakili, MD, PhD: “Mapping PTSD Symptoms to Brain Networks: a Machine Learning Study” Nishant Shah, MD: “PROPER-Stress: A Novel Protocoling Workflow to Improve the Appropriateness, Timeliness and Downstream Impact of Cardiac Stress Tests” Can’t make it in person? Watch the seminar remotely. Translational Research Seminar Series (Advance-CTR) Biology, Medicine, Public Health, Education, Teaching, Instruction, Graduate School, Postgraduate Education, Research, Training, Professional Development Oct 10 12:00pm Applied Mathematic Colloquium presents Constantinos Daskalakis, MIT 170 Hope Street Applied Mathematics Colloquium Thursday, October 10, 2019 12:00pm Room 108, 170 Hope Street Constantinos Daskalakis, MIT Title: Statistical Inference from Dependent Data Abstract: Statistical Learning Theory has largely focused on learning and generalization from independent and identically distributed observations. This assumption is, however, too strong. In many applications, observations are collected on nodes of a network, or some spatial or temporal domain, and are dependent. Examples abound in financial and meteorological applications, and dependencies naturally arise in social networks through peer effects. We study the basic statistical tasks of linear and logistic regression on networked data, where the responses on the nodes of the network are not independent conditioning on the nodes’ vectors of covariates. Given a single observation (across the whole network) from a networked linear or logistic regression model and under necessary weak dependency assumptions, we prove strong consistency results for estimating the model parameters, recovering the rates achievable in the standard setting with independent data. We generalize these results beyond linear and logistic regression, assuming that the observations satisfy Dobrushin’s condition, showing how to use Gaussian complexity and VC dimension to control generalization error. Applied Mathematic Colloquium presents Constantinos Daskalakis, MIT (Division of Applied Math) Oct 10 8:30am - 12:00pm REDCap Workshop: Creating Databases 70 Ship Street This class offers a comprehensive look at creating a database and using surveys. This longer session will cover topics from the getting started workshop and the surveys workshop. Time at the end of class will be dedicated to individual questions. Requisites: Attendees must watch 3 introductory videos before class that will be emailed to you after you register. Registration is required as space is limited. REDCap Workshop: Creating Databases (Advance-CTR) Biology, Medicine, Public Health, Research, Training, Professional Development Oct 9 4:00pm - 5:00pm COBRE CBHD Seminar: Computational Biology Core Tools and Pipelines 164 Angell Street Please join the COBRE Center for Computational Biology of Human Disease, the Center for Computational Molecular Biology, and the Data Science Initiative for the COBRE CBHD Seminar. Ashok Ragavendran will present on the available tools and pipelines of the Computational Biology Core. PLEASE NOTE: You will need to swipe your Brown ID before pressing the 3rd-floor button in the elevator to gain access to the third floor. Any Brown ID should work during business hours. COBRE CBHD Seminar: Computational Biology Core Tools and Pipelines (Center for Computational Biology of Human Disease (COBRE)) Biology, Medicine, Public Health, Mathematics, Technology, Engineering, Research Oct 9 2:00pm - 3:00pm Colloquium: Upskilling the future workforce using AI and affective computing (Ehsan Hoque, University of Rochester) Watson Center for Information Technology (CIT) Many people fear automation. They may see it as a potential job killer. They may also be concerned about what can be automated. Could we train a computer to amplify human ability? Should we? Our ability to be creative, use social learning, and imitation set us apart from other species. In this talk, I will provide some examples of how we can use those social theories to guide algorithms to 1) identify interpretable behavioral patterns; 2) confirm, elaborate and design interventions to better understand how the real-world works; 3) deploy the solutions to measure impact. By carefully designing appropriate applications of Human-Centered AI, we show that technology can improve important social and cognitive skills including the lives of disadvantaged, ill, disabled and other individuals who struggle with socio-emotional communication, such as those with autism, severe anxiety, neurodegenerative disease, and terminal illness. In this talk, I will offer insights gained from our exploration of several questions: How are humans able to improve important social and cognitive skills with an intelligent system? What aspect of the feedback helps the most? How to deploy such systems to promote equality and access to health care and education. M. Ehsan Hoque is an assistant professor of computer science and an Asaro-Biggar (’92) Family Fellow in Data Science at the University of Rochester, where he leads the Rochester Human-Computer Interaction (ROC HCI) Group. From 2018-2019, he was also the Interim Director of the Georgen Institute for Data Science. Ehsan earned his Ph.D. from the MIT in 2013, where the MIT Museum highlighted his dissertation of developing and intelligent agent to improve human ability as one of MIT’s most unconventional inventions. Ehsan and his group’s work have been recognized through NSF CRII, NSF CAREER, and PECASE (to be announced in 2020) as well as MIT TR35, a commendation in Science News as one of ten early- to mid-career scientists to watch in 2017. In 2018, in collaboration with colleagues from the University of Rochester Medical Center (URMC), he has helped establish Morris K Udall Center for Parkinson’s Disease Research Center of Excellence through a $9.2M NIH grant. Ehsan is an associate editor of IEEE Transactions on Affective Computing(2015-2019), PACM IMWUT (2016-current), and Digital Biomarkers (2018-current). He is an inaugural member of the ACM’s Future of Computing Academy. Follow the ROC HCI group’s work on Twitter at @rochci Host: Professor Jeff Huang Colloquium: Upskilling the future workforce using AI and affective computing (Ehsan Hoque, University of Rochester) (Computer Science) Oct 9 12:00pm - 1:00pm Science and Security Horace Mann House To ensure the widest possible dissemination of research results, universities focus most of their efforts on conducting basic research that is intended to be shared and published openly in the scientific literature. There are, however, instances when information and technology generated in universities cannot be shared widely for a variety of reasons, including national and economic security. In these instances, universities and its researchers must strike a balance between scientific openness and controlling the release of information. In this session, we will address several topics that academic researchers should have basic knowledge of: export controls and deemed exports; classified vs. fundamental research; data sharing and protection; and sharing of research materials. We will also discuss the increased scrutiny and legislative action from the U.S. government in response to a perceived increase of academic espionage and theft of intellectual property. Science and Security (Office of the Vice President for Research) Education, Teaching, Instruction, ORI, OVPR, Training, Professional Development Oct 8 12:00pm Schlumberger-Doll Research: Deep Learning Lightning Tech Talk & Career Lunch 164 Angell Street Schlumberger: Deep learning lightning technical talk and career lunch Tuesday, October 8, 12pm - 12:50pm 164 Angell Street, 3rd Floor Seminar Space (Entrance on Angell Street, behind Brown Bookstore). Schlumberger-Doll Research is visiting to share some extraordinary and fascinating Data Science research and to recruit for Data Science roles. Full time and internship opportunities are available at all levels (including Masters and PhDs). Ideal candidates will know about data science, and also have some additional engineering and or scientific training. (Students interested in engineering, physics, applied math, statistics, math, and computer science students are encouraged to attend). Please reserve your place using this form. Smaller group information sessions for interested participants will also be held at 4 pm. The team will present a few short technical talks highlighting the research directions and projects currently being conducted in the applied math and data analytics department. Research activities will be presented on topics related to subsurface data science, including deep learning for automation of interpretation algorithms, uncertainty quantification within the deep learning realm, and Bayesian causal networks for modeling and reasoning. They will also provide a brief overview of the company, its research centers, and employment and internship opportunities. Speakers: Dr. Smaine Zeroug, Research Director, Applied Math and Data Analytics Dr. Lalitha Venkataramanan, Research Program Manager Dr. Marie LeFranc, Research Program Manager Dr. Peter Tilke, Scientific Advisor Open Positions: Descriptions of currently open Data Scientist and Intern positions with Schlumberger-Doll are located here. If you are interested in applying, please be sure to follow the yellow highlighted instructions. There are many other opportunities at Schlumberger. Information Sessions: At 4:00, the team will host small information sessions to answer questions related to the content presented and internships and employment with Schlumberger. An information session sign-up sheet link will be provided during the presentation. About Schlumberger: Schlumberger is the world’s largest oilfield services company and employs approximately 100,000 people representing more than 140 nationalities working in more than 85 countries. It specializes in helping companies to characterize their oil and gas resources by locating them precisely and then modeling all aspects of their extraction. A constant theme in the companies history has been cutting edge research. Questions? For logistical questions, please email [email protected]; For industry-related questions, please email [email protected]. Schlumberger-Doll Research: Deep Learning Lightning Tech Talk & Career Lunch Oct 7 4:00pm Math+Art Panel Discussion 121 South Main Street Please join us at ICERM to enjoy this third in a series of five panel discussions on Math + Art. These discussions feature participants in ICERM’s Illustrating Mathematics Fall 2019 program, artists, and RISD faculty. The panels focus on the different ways in which artists and mathematicians approach mathematical concepts. We expect a dynamic conversation that will spark continued dialogue and future collaborations. Math+Art Panel Discussion (Institute for Computational and Experimental Research in Mathematics (ICERM)) Oct 7 3:00pm - 4:00pm Statistics Seminar, Fan Li, PhD 121 South Main Street Fan Li, PhD, Associate Professor, Department of Statistical Science, Duke University “Introducing the Overlap Weights in Causal Inference” Covariate balance is crucial for confounding adjustment in causal studies with observational data. We propose a unified framework —the balancing weights– to balance the weighted distributions of the covariates between treatment groups. These weights incorporate the propensity score to weight each group to an analyst-selected target population, and include several commonly used weighting schemes such as inverse-probability weight and trimming as special cases. We derive the large-sample results on nonparametric estimation based on these weights. We further propose a new weighting scheme, the overlap weights, in which each unit’s weight is proportional to the probability of that unit being assigned to the opposite group. The overlap weights are bounded, and minimize the asymptotic variance of the weighted average treatment effect among the class of balancing weights. We prove a small-sample exact balance property of the overlap weights. We apply the method the Framingham Heart Study to evaluate the effect of statins on health outcomes. Extension to multiple treatments will also be discussed. Statistics Seminar, Fan Li, PhD (Biostatistics) Biology, Medicine, Public Health, BioStatsSeminar, Education, Teaching, Instruction, Graduate School, Postgraduate Education, Mathematics, Technology, Engineering, Training, Professional Development Oct 4 12:00pm DSCoV Workshop: Git Introduction 164 Angell Street Data Science Computing and Visualization Workshop (DSCoV) Want to be a software master, start a tech company, or succeed in research? Ready to get your hands dirty and learn the data science and programming skills needed to solve real-world data science problems? Come to a DSCoV workshop! Open to all members of the Brown community, these lunch-hour workshops are led by Brown faculty, staff, and students. THIS WEEK’S TOPIC: Getting started with Git and version control best practices. INSTRUCTOR: Singh Saluja Registration is necessary; limited to 40 participants. Friday, October 4, 12:00 PM 164 Angell Street, 4thFloor Innovation Space. Organized by Center for Computation and Visualization Sponsored by the DataScienceInitiative Pizza and soda will be served. DSCoV Workshop: Git Introduction Oct 4 12:00pm i-BSHS Seminar Series - Belinda Borrelli, PhD 121 South Main Street Please join us for the i-BSHS Seminar Series kick-off lecture, presented by Belinda Borrelli, PhD. “Stealth Interventions to Motivate and Sustain Health Behavior Change: High Tech and High Touch Approaches” i-BSHS Seminar Series - Belinda Borrelli, PhD (Behavioral and Social Sciences) Biology, Medicine, Public Health, Psychology & Cognitive Sciences, Research, Social Sciences, Training, Professional Development Oct 4 9:00am - 12:00pm CBC Workshop: Visualization in R with tidyverse and ggplot2 Watson Center for Information Technology (CIT) Extending the series of the Introduction to R workshops, the Computational Biology Core will be running a workshop specifically on creating publication-quality graphs and exploratory visualizations in R under the framework of tidyverse and ggplot2, based on materials in R for data science. This workshop will be held on Friday, October 4, 2019, in the CIT SWIG Board Room from 9 AM to to 12 PM. We ask that participants have either gone through our Fundamentals of R workshop or have other prior familiarity with R. Please register here if you would like to participate (requires a Brown-affiliated account): https://forms.gle/SUzcEAMNvduDHRTL7 CBC Workshop: Visualization in R with tidyverse and ggplot2 (Center for Computational Biology of Human Disease (COBRE)) Biology, Medicine, Public Health, Mathematics, Technology, Engineering, Research Oct 3 9:00am - 10:00am Engineering Seminar: Biomedical Engineering Barus and Holley Ryan McGinnis, Assistant Professor in the Department of Electrical and Biomedical Engineering at the University of Vermont, will present a talk: “Wearables and the Digital Health Revolution”. Abstract: Wearables are at the heart of the digital health revolution. A core aspect of digital health is the promise of improved patient monitoring, allowing assessment and personalized intervention to occur in near real time. However, the data gathered from current wearables are often too general (e.g. gross measures of physical activity) and do not provide the biomechanical or physiological insight necessary to deliver on this vision. In this talk, I will provide background on the emerging field of digital health and describe the first steps we’ve taken toward its promise by presenting novel assessments for identifying mental health problems in young children and a new framework that automates wearable sensor-based remote patient monitoring for those with neurological disease and recovering from orthopedic surgery. Engineering Seminar: Biomedical Engineering (School of Engineering) Oct 2 4:00pm Data Wednesdays: Dhananjay Bhaskar 164 Angell Street INVESTIGATING TUMOR INVASION USING MACHINE LEARNING AND TOPOLOGICAL DATA ANALYSIS Our group focuses on epithelial-to-mesenchymal transition, or EMT, a key driving force in tissue invasion. In this talk, Dhananjay will describe the group’s methodology for analyzing time-lapse microscopy images to quantify EMT and to develop agent-based models of cellular motility. He’ll then outline the challenges faced when applying this technique to 3D confocal acquisitions and propose a novel method using topological data analysis, or TOA, to overcome these challenges. Data Wednesdays: Dhananjay Bhaskar Biology, Medicine, Public Health, Mathematics, Technology, Engineering, Research Oct 2 11:00am - 12:30pm Academic Grand Rounds* Realizing the societal benefits of medical research: Applying implementation science to improve clinical practice and patient outcomes Butler Campus Academic Grand Rounds* Realizing the societal benefits of medical research: Applying implementation science to improve clinical practice and patient outcomes Brian S. Mittman, PhD Senior Scientist, Health Services Research and Implementation Science Kaiser Permanente Southern California Department of Research and Evaluation Co-Lead, Implementation and Improvement Science Initiative UCLA Clinical and Translational Science Institute Wednesday, October 2, 2019 Butler Hospital ◊ Ray Hall Conference Center ◊ 11:00 am - 12:30 pm Objectives: At the conclusion of this presentation, participants should be able to: Articulate the definition, goals and scope of implementation science and explain how it relates to other categories of health-related research; Identify key phases of pre-implementation and implementation studies and explain key differences in the aims and purpose of each phase; and to Select appropriate research designs and methods for different types and phases of implementation studies. Disclosure: Brian S. Mittman, PhD has no financial relationships to disclose. This activity is not supported by a commercial entity. Academic Grand Rounds* Realizing the societal benefits of medical research: Applying implementation science to improve clinical practice and patient outcomes (Psychiatry and Human Behavior) Sep 30 3:30pm - 5:00pm Research Integrity Series: The Role of the Scientist in Society Brown University Medical Education Building (Alpert Medical School) This course is designed to fulfill the NIH requirements for training in the Responsible Conduct of Research (RCR), and is coordinated by the Office of Graduate and Postdoctoral Studies (OGPS) in the Division of Biology and Medicine at Brown. The Research Integrity Series for Faculty consists of core and elective modules, with content and discussion topics aimed at more experienced scholars in the biomedical and clinical sciences. Requirements: Faculty must complete a minimum of 8 hours of in-person core and elective content in order to receive RCR certification. Faculty who began training in this course last year and have yet to complete their 8 hours may continue with this year’s series. Faculty registered for this course may apply up to 1 hr of in-person external RCR training (for example, a departmental workshop, class, or seminar relating to a topic covered in this class). Attendees must provide OGPS with verification of attendance for tracking purposes. Registration is required to attend. More information about the trainings will be distributed prior to the event. To register, please fill out this form. Schedule: Monday, September 30th 3:30 - 5pm Dr. Jim Padbury and Dr. Ed Hawrot, The Role of the Scientist in Society Wednesday, October 23rd, 3:30 - 5pm Dr. Audra Van Wart, Responsible Authorship and Peer Review Wednesday, November 20th, 3:30 - 5pm Dr. Keri Godin, Research Misconduct and Brown University Policies (Note that this is one of the required trainings) Wednesday, December 4th, 3:30-5pm Dr. Elizabeth Harrington and Dr. Audra Van Wart, Rigor, Reproducibility, and Transparency (Note that this is one of the required trainings) SPRING Session (Dates are TBD but will include the following topics): Mentorship (2 hrs), Running a Lab, *Human Subjects/Animal Research, Data Management and Ownership Research Integrity Series: The Role of the Scientist in Society (Advance-CTR) Biology, Medicine, Public Health, Education, Teaching, Instruction, Research, Training, Professional Development Sep 30 3:00pm - 4:00pm Statistics Seminar, Prasanta Pal, PhD 121 South Main Street Prasanta Pal, PhD, Research Project Director, U. Mass. Medical School, Adjunct Assistant Professor of Behavioral and Social Sciences, School of Public Health, Brown University Bio: I trained as a Physicist at Indian Institute of Technology, Kharagpur, India and Yale University School of Engineering, New Haven, CT. Starting with computer simulation on super-conducting quantum computer at Yale , my PhD work was focused on large scale computer simulations of soft matter particle systems. I briefly worked as a postdoc at Yale MRI center to study blood flow dynamics in human heart. Then I head started the technological platform of the startup company “Mind sciences” to build mobile applications like “Craving to Quit” for addiction treatment through mindfulness interventions. In parallel I built high-density real-time EEG neuro-feedback systems to provide mental-training to different population groups. This has been part of large scale clinical trials and demonstrated in commercial program like CBS 60 minutes. Currently I’m developing tools for big-data, 4D visualization of human mind and its quantification using AI and computational geometry. Abstract: “Chasing the Mind” Background: the quest to understand the mind is age-old and unresolved. Although the “Mind” is central to nearly all human activity, the quest for a complete scientific understanding of “how the human mind works” remains unresolved. In science, much progress has been made to understand the nature and function of the mind using various techniques. Useful models of mental and emotional function have emerged, with an increasingly detailed picture of the brain-body connection and its many roles in health and survival. Opportunity: Mind-body research reveals inner order, while technology opens frontiers for analysis. More recently, mystics of the east and clinicians of the west have come to recognize the common platform through which they seek to promote mental well being. Increasingly, the exploration of one’s inner self (e.g., through inner query and mental-training) can complement external tools like thermometers and drug regimens. The old notion of body-based medicine has evolved into mind-body medicine. Clinically, successful programs like MBSR (Mindful Based Stress Reduction) developed by Jon Kabat Zinn are geared towards harmonizing the physical and mental dimensions of human existence. Importantly, the inner order and wholeness perceived by mystics is gaining solid scientific footing and paving the way for a revolutionary new age of medicine. On the other hand, the rapidly evolving knowledge-base of machine-learning, data science and technology are collapsing the boundaries between traditional academic disciplines. As a result, commercially available devices like MUSE for meditation and EEG sleep monitors are device incarnations to play with “Mind dynamics”. Challenge: Reductionist frameworks miss hidden order in the mind’s complexity. The human brain is by far the most sophisticated computing-device known to science. High quality data measured from the human brain via EEG like sensors can effectively be utilized to create the cartography of the human mind. Although simplistic reductionist models have very successfully permeated the domains of physical sciences, it is often limited in scope to explain the human mind. As an alternative, we introduce a more holistic approach to pave the cartographic building blocks of the human mind using high dimensional data collected through EEG sensors attached to the human brain. Our work: New imaging and computational techniques to visualize the mind’s wholeness. As data scientists and technologists, our work is to build tools to visualize and investigate the human mind with as much scientific and mathematical rigor as complex fields like rocket science. The holy grail is to map out the deeper-most thought patterns in the human mind on our favorite mobile device. What has been inner can be unfolded to the outer. In this work, we describe our unique journey to understand the human mind starting with a simple noisy one-dimensional time series plot of a small EEG data segment and, from there, building models with infinite-dimensional function space to characterize and visualize the experientially active human mind. We demonstrate that the inner journey of the self is also reciprocally, a number crunching exercise. With these tools, when fully developed, we can transform soulless-selfies to the speckles of our blissful inner-selves. Statistics Seminar, Prasanta Pal, PhD (Biostatistics) Biology, Medicine, Public Health, BioStatsSeminar, Education, Teaching, Instruction, Graduate School, Postgraduate Education, Mathematics, Technology, Engineering, Training, Professional Development Sep 28 6:00pm - 8:00pm SOLD OUT: Illustrating Mathematics Open House at Waterfire 121 South Main Street ICERM is pleased to be a part of Providence’s “Big Bang Science Fair” Waterfire event on September 28th. All are invited to attend our hands-on open house featuring many of our Illustrating Mathematics program participants. Come engage with these talented artists-in-residence and explore their work. Visualize mathematics through displays of art made using 3D printing, laser cutting, CNC routing, virtual reality, textiles, carving, painting, video, and more! Mingle in ICERM’s beautiful 11th-floor space along the river and enjoy a sweeping view of Waterfire. Tickets are required for entry. This event is SOLD OUT. The Math+Art open house themes and table leaders are: Computational Textiles Table leader: Sabetta Matsumoto Sabetta Matsumoto is an Assistant Professor in the School of Physics at the Georgia Institute of Technology. She uses differential geometry, knot theory and geometric topology to understand the geometry of materials and their mechanical properties. She is passionate about using textiles, 3D printing and virtual reality to teach geometry and topology to the public. https://matsumoto.gatech.edu/ Help Build “FireStar” Installation Table leader: Glen Whitney Glen Whitney is passionate about every part of public mathematics — engagement, appreciation, and informal learning. After graduating from Harvard in 1989, Whitney did his graduate work in mathematical logic at UCLA and received a Ph.D. in 1994. He was on the faculty of the University of Michigan and subsequently became an applied mathematician at the quantitative hedge fund, Renaissance Technologies. In 2008, he left Renaissance and founded the National Museum of Mathematics (MoMath) in New York City. The museum opened its doors to the public in December 2012 and is nearing its millionth visitor. Whitney continues to work on a variety of projects, promoting public mathematics in fresh and innovative ways. https://www.mathforamerica.org/about/board/glen-whitney/ 3-dimensional Art Table leader: Saul Schleimer Saul Schleimer is a Reader in Mathematics at the University of Warwick (UK). His research interests include topology — the study of shapes, hyperbolic space — the so-called “non-euclidean geometry”, and group theory — the study of symmetry. He is especially interested in using computers to visualize objects and ideas in these areas. https://warwick.ac.uk/fac/sci/maths/people/staff/saul_schleimer/ 2-dimensional Art Table leader: Frank Farris Frank Farris is a professor in the Department of Mathematics and Computer Science at Santa Clara University. He is an award-winning author, artist, and speaker. He uses ideas from advanced mathematics, such as complex analysis and abstract algebra, to transform images of landscapes, flowers, or even his dinner into beautiful repeating designs. http://math.scu.edu/~ffarris/ Math-in-Motion Table leader: John Edmark John Edmark, a lecturer in Stanford University’s Design Program, employs precise mathematics in the design and fabrication of his work. He does this neither out of a desire to exhibit precision per se, nor to exalt the latest technology, but because the questions he is trying to formulate and answer about spatial relationships can only be addressed with geometrically exacting constructions. Mathematical precision is an essential ally in his goal of achieving clarity. http://www.johnedmark.com/ American Mathematical Society (AMS) Activity Table (hands-on for all ages) Table leaders: Representatives from the AMS AMS staff will lead Patterns: Parabolas & Polygons, a line drawing activity. Make and bring home beautiful geometric patterns from simple lines. The AMS, headquartered in Providence, RI, supports the mathematical sciences by providing access to research, professional networking, conferences and events, advocacy, and a connection to a community passionate about mathematics and its relationship to other disciplines and everyday life. Explore a wide range of offerings online. https://www.ams.org/ This open-house is made possible with grants from the National Science Foundation, and the Alfred P. Sloan Foundation award G-2019-11406. SOLD OUT: Illustrating Mathematics Open House at Waterfire (Institute for Computational and Experimental Research in Mathematics (ICERM)) Mathematics, Art, STEM, Research Sep 27 12:00pm - 1:00pm DSCoV Workshop: Keras Tutorial 164 Angell Street Want to be a software master, start a tech company, or succeed in research? Ready to get your hands dirty and learn the data science and programming skills needed to solve real-world data science problems? Come to a DSCoV workshop! Open to all members of the Brown community, these lunch-hour workshops are led by Brown faculty, staff, and students. Registration is necessary; limited to 40 participants. This week’s topic: Keras Tutorial taught by Drew Linsley, Postdoctoral Research Associate, Serre Lab, Brown University. Friday, September 27, 12PM 164 Angell Street, 3rd Floor Seminar Space Co-organized by Thomas Serre and Center for Computation and Visualization. Sponsored by the Data Science Initiative. Pizza and soda will be served. DSCoV Workshop: Keras Tutorial Biology, Medicine, Public Health, Education, Teaching, Instruction, Mathematics, Technology, Engineering, Social Sciences Sep 23 6:00pm Student Group Interest Meeting Manning Hall Do you like to think and talk about museums? Have you wondered what happens behind-the-scenes? Are you intrigued by a career in museums? Consider joining the Haffenreffer Museum Student Group! Join us on Monday, September 23rd to talk to Haffenreffer Museum student group members, learn about their activities in the museum, and find out how you can get involved! Student Group Interest Meeting (Haffenreffer Museum of Anthropology) History, Cultural Studies, Languages, Humanities, Identity, Culture, Inclusion, Social Sciences, Student Clubs, Organizations & Activities Sep 23 3:00pm - 4:00pm Statistics C. V. Starr Lecture: Lisa LaVange, PhD 121 South Main Street Lisa LaVange, PhD bio: Lisa LaVange, PhD, is Professor and Associate Chair of the Department of Biostatistics in the Gillings School of Global Public Health at the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill. She is also director of the department’s Collaborative Studies Coordinating Center (CSCC), overseeing faculty, staff, and students involved in large-scale clinical trials and epidemiological studies coordinated by the center. From 2011 to 2017, Dr. LaVange was director of the Office of Biostatistics in the United States Food and Drug Administration (FDA) Center for Drug Evaluation and Research (CDER). There, she oversaw more than 200 statisticians and other staff members involved in the development and application of statistical methodology for drug regulation. She was a leader in developing and assessing the effectiveness and appropriateness of innovative statistical methods intended to accelerate the process from drug discovery to clinical trials to FDA approval and patients’ benefit, with a particular focus on rare diseases. Prior to her government and academic experience, she spent 16 years in non-profit research and 10 years in the pharmaceutical industry. Dr. LaVange is an elected fellow of the American Statistical Association (ASA) and was the 2018 ASA President. Abstract: Real-world Data, Statistical Innovation, and Evidence Generation As a result of the 21st Century Cures Act and the Prescription Drug User’s Fee VI Act, both passed into law in 2016, the FDA launched several important initiatives. The first involves real-world evidence generation from real-world data in both the pre- and post-market settings. This initiative reflects the desire to use existing health care data and data from other non-standard sources in lieu of or to supplement data collected as part of a research study to support product approval or expansion to new indications. Patient advocacy groups and medical researchers alike view the rich data streams that are becoming increasingly available as too big to ignore in terms of providing insight into a therapy’s safety and effectiveness. The second initiative reflects a desire to use innovative or otherwise non-traditional trial designs to generate substantial evidence in support of regulatory submissions. This initiative was intended to counter the belief that FDA reviewers were not often accepting of novel or complex trial designs, as shown by the lack of available guidance on the topic or examples that could be pointed to as successes. The third initiative reflects a desire to incorporate pharmacometric modeling into a drug development program to reduce the amount of data required to be collected in new clinical studies. The goal is to more effectively leverage what is already known about a drug, or able to be predicted with a high level of confidence, in planning the later stages of clinical development or expansion to new indications. In this seminar, I will review these initiatives, based on my involvement while at FDA in their development and roll-out, and discuss their impact on clinical research today. I will also discuss some recent initiatives at ASA that dove-tail nicely with the FDA initiatives and relate to opportunities for statisticians to take a leadership role in both finding and advocating for appropriate use of innovative solutions to problems in public health research. Statistics C. V. Starr Lecture: Lisa LaVange, PhD (Biostatistics) Biology, Medicine, Public Health, BioStatsSeminar, Education, Teaching, Instruction, Graduate School, Postgraduate Education, Mathematics, Technology, Engineering, Training, Professional Development Sep 19 9:00am - 10:00am Special Workshop for Faculty Entrepreneurs Brown University Medical Education Building (Alpert Medical School) Don’t miss this special workshop for investigators who are interested in commercialization and entrepreneurship. Curtis Sprouse, president and CEO of the Institute for Biomedical Entrepreneurship (IBE), will discuss the program’s 5-day certificate program, which provides researchers in the life sciences with practical, hands-on knowledge and skills that help them evolve their innovations from lab to market. At the conclusion of the workshop, attendees will be invited to apply for an upcoming certificate program. Attendee sponsorship is contingent upon available funding. Investigators who have completed the certificate program will also be in attendance to answer questions and discuss their experience. Who Should Attend this Workshop: Early-career investigators, physician scientists, and other clinical and translational researchers at Brown, URI, and the affiliated hospitals in Rhode Island who are interested in entrepreneurship are encouraged to attend this workshop. Workshop is free but registration is required. This event is sponsored by the Division of Biology and Medicine with funding provided through the NIH DRIVEN award. NIH Grant Number: 1UT2GM130176-02 Special Workshop for Faculty Entrepreneurs (Advance-CTR) Biology, Medicine, Public Health, Careers, Recruiting, Internships, Training, Professional Development Sep 19 8:00am - 11:30am REDCap Workshop: Creating Databases & Using Surveys Rhode Island Hospital Grads Dorm 593 Eddy Street Providence RI This 3.5 hour class offers a comprehensive look at creating a database and using surveys. This longer session will cover topics from the getting started workshop and the surveys workshop. Time at the end of class will be dedicated to individual questions. Requisites: Attendees must watch 3 introductory videos before class that will be emailed directly after you register. Registration is required as space is limited. REDCap Workshop: Creating Databases & Using Surveys (Advance-CTR) Biology, Medicine, Public Health, Research, Training, Professional Development Sep 16 6:00pm Math+Art Panel Discussion 121 South Main Street Please join us at ICERM to enjoy this second in a series of five panel discussions on Math + Art. These discussions feature participants in ICERM’s Illustrating Mathematics Fall 2019 program, artists, and RISD faculty. The panels focus on the different ways in which artists and mathematicians approach mathematical concepts. We expect a dynamic conversation that will spark continued dialogue and future collaborations. Math+Art Panel Discussion (Institute for Computational and Experimental Research in Mathematics (ICERM)) Sep 12 4:00pm Atlas of Inequality: segregation at high resolution 164 Angell Street Esteban Moro, MIT Media Lab and Universidad Carlos III (Madrid) Segregation is hurting our societies and specially our cities, where the fact that we live apart from other racial, economical or social groups carries tremendous economical and societal consequences. Not only for the people living in poor neighborhoods, but for the region as a whole. Most studies still describe people’s segregation patterns using census areas. However, encounters between people happen in places, not census areas, so our understanding of segregation still relies on very coarse-grained spatial description of how people interact or encounter in our cities. Using a massive dataset of high spatial resolution movements of 4.5 million people in 11 of the largest metropolitan areas in the US we have studied how encounters of different economic groups happen in our cities to determine the economic segregation at the level of places (venues) and individual users. We’ve found that some type of places (some restaurants, education, religious places) are constantly segregated across US, while some other (art exhibits, science museums, hospitals, etc.) are not. Furthermore, we were able to model individual segregation and found that most of the segregation/isolation that individuals experience in their daily lives does not depend on where they live, but on their individual behavioral patterns (type of places visited, social exploration, etc.) We discuss the implications of our results in the context of future development of areas and in the ever-changing evolution of our cities. Esteban Moro is a researcher, data scientist and professor at MIT Media Lab and Universidad Carlos III (UC3M) in Spain. He was previously researcher at University of Oxford. A native from Salamanca (Spain) he holds a PhD in Physics and is an affiliate faculty at Joint Institute UC3M-Santander on Big Data at UC3M and the Joint Institute of Mathematical Sciences (Spain). He has published extensively throughout his career (more than 60 articles) and led many projects funded by government agencies and/or private companies. Esteban has served as jury in many Data Science and Big Data challenges, is editor of several journals and has advised many PhD students. Esteban’s work lies in the intersection of big data and computational social science, with special attention to human dynamics, collective intelligence, social networks and urban mobility in problems like viral marketing, natural disaster management, or economical segregation in cities. Apart from his academic career he has worked closely with companies like Twitter, Telefónica, and BBVA in the use of massive datasets to understand problems like how humans communicate, how political opinion spreads in social networks or building alternative wellbeing indexes. He has received numerous awards for his research, including the “Shared University Award” from IBM in 2007 for his research in modeling viral marketing in social networks and the “Excellence in Research” Awards in 2013 and 2015 from UC3M. Esteban’s work has appeared in major journals including PNAS and Science Advances and is regularly covered by media outlets such as The Atlantic, The Washington Post, The Wall Street Journal, El País (Spain). Atlas of Inequality: segregation at high resolution Sep 12 12:00pm - 1:00pm Translational Research Seminar Series 70 Ship Street Special Seminar! Community Engagement Studios: A Structured Approach to Obtaining Meaningful Feedback from Stakeholders to Inform Your Research Presented by: Amy Nunn, ScD; Jacquelyn Fede, PhD; and Sharon Rounds, MD Community Engagement Studios provide researchers with the opportunity to receive direct feedback from community representatives about their particular health research topic. The studios help investigators align their work with community health priorities and engage with communities in culturally sensitive ways. In this seminar, the speakers will provide an introduction to Community Engagement Studios – what they are, how they work, and what an effective studio looks like, with examples. Attendees will have the opportunity to ask questions and get feedback from the speakers about their research ideas, and discuss any potential barriers that may exist to doing community-engaged research within their specific research area. Can’t make it in person? Watch the seminar remotely. Translational Research Seminar Series (Advance-CTR) Biology, Medicine, Public Health, Education, Teaching, Instruction, Graduate School, Postgraduate Education, Research, Training, Professional Development Sep 11 4:00pm - 5:00pm COBRE CBHD Seminar: Genomic and Epigenomic Instability in Cellular Senescence and Aging 164 Angell Street Please join the COBRE Center for Computational Biology of Human Disease, the Center for Computational Molecular Biology, and the Data Science Initiative for the COBRE CBHD Seminar. Nicola Neretti, Ph.D., is an Associate Professor of Molecular Biology, Cell Biology, and Biochemistry at Brown University, and is one of the COBRE Center for Computational Biology of Human Disease’s success stories. He graduated from the COBRE program by receiving peer-reviewed funding and he has been promoted to Associate Professor. Dr. Neretti will present his talk entitled “Genomic and Epigenomic Instability in Cellular Senescence and Aging”. PLEASE NOTE: You will need to swipe your Brown ID before pressing the 3rd-floor button in the elevator to gain access to the third floor of 164 Angell Street. Any Brown ID should work during business hours. COBRE CBHD Seminar: Genomic and Epigenomic Instability in Cellular Senescence and Aging (Center for Computational Biology of Human Disease (COBRE)) Biology, Medicine, Public Health, Mathematics, Technology, Engineering, Research Sep 11 11:00am - 12:00pm Child & Adolescent Psychiatry Grand Rounds Bradley Hospital “Is the Next School Shooter Sitting Before Me?” Critical Issues in Threat Assessment in Children & Adolescents Deborah M. Weisbrot, M.D., DFAACAP Clinical Professor of Psychiatry, Stony Brook Medicine Consulting Psychiatrist, Western Suffolk BOCES Schools Wednesday, September 11, 2019 Bradley Hospital ◊ Pine Room ◊ 11:00 am - 12:00 pm Objectives: At the conclusion of this presentation, participants should be able to: Identify the essential aspects of threat assessment in children and adolescents; Identify critical warning behaviors and psychological patterns which need to be considered in threat assessment; and Discuss the complexities and challenges involved in the threat assessment process. Disclosure: Dr. Weisbrot has no financial relationship to disclose. This presentation will be teleconferenced from the Pine Room at Bradley Hospital to APC-969 and Coro West, Suite 204, Conference Room 2.186 This activity is not supported by a commercial entity. Child & Adolescent Psychiatry Grand Rounds (Psychiatry and Human Behavior) Sep 10 2:00pm - 3:30pm REDCap Workshop: Getting Started with Creating Databases Rhode Island Hospital Grads Dorm 593 Eddy Street Providence RI Hone your REDCap skills in this upcoming workshop, “Getting Started with Creating Databases,” presented by Advance-CTR. The workshop offers an introduction to building databases in REDCap and covers basic concepts and best practices for building a database for your clinical research question. This workshop will be helpful to anyone building a new project in REDCap, and to those who have been tasked with managing or maintaining an existing database. Time at the end of class will be dedicated to individual questions. Requisites: Attendees must watch three introductory videos before class. Registration is required as space is limited. REDCap Workshop: Getting Started with Creating Databases (Advance-CTR) Biology, Medicine, Public Health, Research, Training, Professional Development Sep 8 3:00pm - 3:30pm Getting Started with CareerLAB Salomon Center for Teaching This is a fun brief overview, of how CareerLAB works, what you should be focused on, and most importantly what “noise” you should be ignoring. One of the big road blocks in student’s accessing our fantastic services is understanding how we help students and how the career development process works while you’re in college. This clever little program will explain that. Getting Started with CareerLAB Sep 6 1:00pm Hackathon on Opioid Overdose Prevention Rhode Island College The COBRE on Opioids and Overdose will host this inaugural hackathon event to help find solutions or “hacks” to address the opioid overdose crisis in Rhode Island and beyond. Students, professionals, and community members are all welcome to compete for cash prizes of $5,000 for the first place team, $3,000 for the second place team, and $2,000 for the third place team. Hackathon on Opioid Overdose Prevention Biology, Medicine, Public Health, Research, Training, Professional Development Sep 6 11:00am Scientific Computing present Ming-Jun Lai, University of Georgia 170 Hope Street Scientific Computing Seminar Friday, September 6, 2019 11:00am Room 108, 170 Hope Street Ming-Jun Lai, University of Georgia Title: Sparse Solutions and Their Applications Abstract: We shall first explain the study of the sparse solution to underdetermined linear system. Several convex minimization and nonconvex computational methods will be explained. These include$\ell_1$-minimization,Orthogonal Matching Pursuit(OMP), alternating projection method(AP) and their variations. Next we shall explain some applications, sparse solution for numerical solution of PDE, matrix completion, and phase retrieval problem. Scientific Computing present Ming-Jun Lai, University of Georgia Sep 4 All Day Classes of the first semester begin. Web registration begins at 8:00 a.m. > No location for this event Classes of the first semester begin. Web registration begins at 8:00 a.m. Classes of the first semester begin. Web registration begins at 8:00 a.m. Fall Semester Sep 3 All Day Opening Convocation at 4:00 p.m. Registration of new students for the first semester (7:00 pm to midnight) > No location for this event Opening Convocation at 4:00 p.m. Registration of new students for the first semester (7:00 pm to midnight). Opening Convocation at 4:00 p.m. Registration of new students for the first semester (7:00 pm to midnight) Fall Semester Aug 27 All Day Beginning of Graduate School Orientation > No location for this event Beginning of Graduate School Orientation Beginning of Graduate School Orientation Fall Semester Aug 13 9:00am - 10:30am REDCap Workshop: “Getting Started with Creating Databases” Rhode Island Hospital Grads Dorm 593 Eddy Street Providence RI Hone your REDCap skills in this upcoming workshop, “Getting Started with Creating Databases,” presented by Advance-CTR. The workshop offers an introduction to building databases in REDCap and covers basic concepts and best practices for building a database for your clinical research question. This workshop will be helpful to anyone building a new project in REDCap, and to those who have been tasked with managing or maintaining an existing database. Time at the end of class will be dedicated to individual questions. Requisites: Attendees must watch three introductory videos before class. Registration is required as space is limited. REDCap Workshop: “Getting Started with Creating Databases” Biology, Medicine, Public Health, Research, Training, Professional Development Aug 12 2:00pm - 3:30pm REDCap Workshop: “Advanced Users, Tips & Tricks” Rhode Island Hospital Grads Dorm 593 Eddy Street Providence RI Hone your REDCap skills in this upcoming workshop, “Advanced Users: Tips & Tricks,” presented by Advance-CTR. This workshop is geared toward intermediate to advanced users (those that have built databases before). Prior to class attendees will be given the chance to choose topics from a preset list. Registration is required as space is limited. REDCap Workshop: “Advanced Users, Tips & Tricks” Biology, Medicine, Public Health, Research, Training, Professional Development Jul 23 4:00pm - 6:00pm Thesis Defense: Learning to ground natural language instructions to plans (Naked Gopalan) Watson Center for Information Technology (CIT) In order to intuitively and efficiently collaborate with humans, robots must learn to complete tasks specified using natural language. Natural language instructions can have many intentions, for example, they can specify a goal condition, or provide guidance to achieve the goal, or provide constraints that must be satisfied in achieving goals. Given a natural language command a robot needs to ground the instruction to an action sequence executed in the environment, which satisfies the request along with all its constraints and guidances. In this work I will address the problem of grounding natural language instructions to plans with different approaches, all of which depend upon predicates from first order logic. I will first describe a hierarchical planner for planning in large state spaces. I will then describe different procedures to ground natural language for hierarchical and constraint based tasks. We finish with looking at an approach that learns symbols and their natural language groundings using demonstrations and instructions. This allows the agent to follow novel instructions in unseen environments without hand-specified symbols. Host: Professor Stefanie Tellex Thesis Defense: Learning to ground natural language instructions to plans (Naked Gopalan) Jul 19 8:00am - 11:30am REDCap Workshop: “Creating Databases and Using Surveys” Rhode Island Hospital Grads Dorm 593 Eddy Street Providence RI Hone your REDCap skills in this upcoming workshop, “Creating Databases and Using Surveys,” presented by Advance-CTR. This workshop offers a comprehensive look at creating a database and using surveys. This longer session will cover topics from the “Getting Started” workshop and the “Surveys” workshop. Time at the end of class will be dedicated to individual questions. Requisites: Attendees must watch 3 introductory videos before class. Registration is required as space is limited. REDCap Workshop: “Creating Databases and Using Surveys” Biology, Medicine, Public Health, Research, Training, Professional Development Jul 18 12:00pm DSCoV Workshop 164 Angell Street Noam Peled, Research Fellow at the Martinos Center for Biomedical Engineering Neuroimaging Multi-Modal Analysis and Visualization MMVT (mmvt.org) is a free open-source 3D interactive tool for researchers who wish to have a better understanding of neuroimaging anatomical and functional data, both in time and space. DSCoV Workshop Jul 17 1:00pm - 3:00pm IMSD Training Module: Designing and Delivering Scientific Presentations Engineering Research Center Brown’s IMSD Program will offer a 3-part training module on “Designing & Delivering Scientific Presentations ” on July 15, 16, and 17 (M,W,F) from 1:00pm- 3:00pm in TBD. Gain insight and practice in effective oral communication of scientific results. Learn how to frame and structure a poster or oral presentation to communicate with your intended audience. Utilize visual materials to highlight key concepts and findings. Gain practice in creating and delivering a brief scientific presentation, responding to questions, interacting with an audience, giving and receiving formative feedback. Instructor: Bjorn Sanstede. Senior Scholar: Jazlyn Nketia. Advanced registration required. IMSD Training Module: Designing and Delivering Scientific Presentations Jul 17 1:00pm - 2:30pm REDCap Workshop: “Getting Started with Creating Databases” Rhode Island Hospital Grads Dorm 593 Eddy Street Providence RI Hone your REDCap skills in this upcoming workshop, “Getting Started with Creating Databases,” presented by Advance-CTR. The workshop offers an introduction to building databases in REDCap and covers basic concepts and best practices for building a database for your clinical research question. This workshop will be helpful to anyone building a new project in REDCap, and to those who have been tasked with managing or maintaining an existing database. Time at the end of class will be dedicated to individual questions. Requisites: Attendees must watch three introductory videos before class. Registration is required as space is limited. REDCap Workshop: “Getting Started with Creating Databases” Biology, Medicine, Public Health, Research, Training, Professional Development Jul 16 1:00pm - 3:00pm IMSD Training Module: Designing and Delivering Scientific Presentations Engineering Research Center Brown’s IMSD Program will offer a 3-part training module on “Designing & Delivering Scientific Presentations ” on July 15, 16, and 17 (M,W,F) from 1:00pm- 3:00pm in TBD. Gain insight and practice in effective oral communication of scientific results. Learn how to frame and structure a poster or oral presentation to communicate with your intended audience. Utilize visual materials to highlight key concepts and findings. Gain practice in creating and delivering a brief scientific presentation, responding to questions, interacting with an audience, giving and receiving formative feedback. Instructor: Bjorn Sanstede. Senior Scholar: Jazlyn Nketia. Advanced registration required. IMSD Training Module: Designing and Delivering Scientific Presentations Jul 16 12:00pm - 1:00pm Research Misconduct Educational Workshop Horace Mann House Interested in learning about what constitutes research misconduct and Brown’s related policy and procedures? Join Keri Godin, Director of the Office of Research Integrity, in this case-based discussion to learn what research misconduct is (and what it isn’t) and how to report an allegation of research misconduct at Brown. This session will also focus on recent enforcement actions and identifying ‘ red flags ’ and tools for detection and prevention. Light snacks will be provided, please feel free to bring your lunch. Space is limited | RSVP required Research Misconduct Educational Workshop Education, Teaching, Instruction, IRB, ORI, OVPR, Research, Training, Professional Development Jul 15 1:00pm - 3:00pm IMSD Training Module: Designing and Delivering Scientific Presentations Engineering Research Center Brown’s IMSD Program will offer a 3-part training module on “Designing & Delivering Scientific Presentations ” on July 15, 16, and 17 (M,W,F) from 1:00pm- 3:00pm in TBD. Gain insight and practice in effective oral communication of scientific results. Learn how to frame and structure a poster or oral presentation to communicate with your intended audience. Utilize visual materials to highlight key concepts and findings. Gain practice in creating and delivering a brief scientific presentation, responding to questions, interacting with an audience, giving and receiving formative feedback. Instructor: Bjorn Sanstede. Senior Scholar: Jazlyn Nketia. Advanced registration required. IMSD Training Module: Designing and Delivering Scientific Presentations Jul 11 8:30am - 4:30pm COBRE on Opioids and Overdose Symposium Hotel Providence Join the COBRE for Opioids and Overdose for this annual symposium on July 11 from 8 a.m. - 4:30 p.m. at the Hotel Providence. The symposium includes a panel discussion with experts and policy makers, as well as research presentations and networking. COBRE on Opioids and Overdose Symposium Biology, Medicine, Public Health, Research, Training, Professional Development Jul 8 All Day Current Student Opportunity: Stanford Postdoctoral Recruitment Initiative in Sciences and Medicine (PRISM) Stanford PRISM PRISM (Postdoctoral Recruitment Initiative in Sciences and Medicine) is an opportunity for select late-stage graduate students from diverse backgrounds to come to Stanford for a recruitment weekend, interview with potential mentors, and get the inside scoop on postdoctoral training at Stanford. The purpose of this program is to encourage those who might not currently consider a postdoctoral position at Stanford to get a first-hand look at whether Stanford might be a good fit for them. Our goal is to match excellent trainees to excellent mentors at Stanford. This opportunity is open to all. We encourage those from backgrounds underrepresented in the sciences to apply, including but not limited to: African Americans, Latinos, Native Americans, Pacific Islanders, Filipinos, those with disabilities or from disadvantaged backgrounds, and those underrepresented on the basis of gender identity or expression or sexual orientation. Applications consist of an application form, a CV, a research statement, a recommendation from your graduate advisor, and the names of up to 6 potential mentors at Stanford. For more information or to apply, go to http://postdocs.stanford.edu/PRISM PRISM Fall 2019 dates: October 9-12, 2019 Deadline: July 8, 2019 Current Student Opportunity: Stanford Postdoctoral Recruitment Initiative in Sciences and Medicine (PRISM) Jul 1 1:00pm - 4:00pm Intro to Natural Language Processing and Machine Learning in Python Sciences Library The Center for Computation and Visualization (CCV) is offering an introductory workshop on the Python programming language and natural language processing, targeted toward graduate students and postdocs in the humanities and social sciences. Python is a versatile computer programming language, useful in many contexts including analyzing large bodies of text. No experience with coding is required. Faculty and staff members can register if space is available. In the first week of the workshop, we will learn how to manipulate and plot data, and modify text. In the second week, we will use natural language processing to analyze large sets of text data. NLP allows us to extract topics, analyze sentiment or summarize text that would take too long for humans to read. The workshop runs July 1-12. Each day will consist of a morning lecture (9am-noon), lunch, and hands-on exercises (1pm-4pm). Participants will have the opportunity to work on their own data-intensive projects with help from CCV data scientists during the second week. Lunch and coffee/tea are provided. The workshop is supported by the Data Science Initiative’s NSF-TRIPODS grant. Intro to Natural Language Processing and Machine Learning in Python Mathematics, Technology, Engineering, Training, Professional Development Jun 26 11:00am - 5:00pm SfN Virtual Conference: Machine Learning in Neuroscience — Fundamentals and Possibilities 164 Angell Street On June 26, The Carney Institute will be live screening the Society for Neuroscience’s virtual conference: Machine Learning in Neuroscience — Fundamentals and Possibilities. Please join us in the Innovation Zone. No need to register for the event through SfN, but please RSVP here so we know how much food to order. Thanks! SfN Virtual Conference: Machine Learning in Neuroscience — Fundamentals and Possibilities (Carney Institute for Brain Science) Biology, Medicine, Public Health, Education, Teaching, Instruction, Research Jun 20 12:00pm DSCoV Workshop - Introduction to Docker 164 Angell Street Docker is a platform to aid in the development and deployment of applications. In this workshop, we will explore Docker and its common use-cases. No knowledge of Docker is required. Familiarity with programming and/or Linux is helpful. Please come with Docker Desktop installed. https://www.docker.com/products/docker-desktop Presenter: Bradford Roarr, CIS Pizza will be served. Seats are limited. https://www.eventbrite.com/e/dscov-lunch-introduction-to-docker-tickets-63303537585 DSCoV Workshop - Introduction to Docker Biology, Medicine, Public Health, Education, Teaching, Instruction, Mathematics, Technology, Engineering Jun 7 8:00am - 6:00pm Rhode Island IDeA Symposium The Warren Alpert Medical School Rhode Island’s annual IDeA Symposium brings together research investigators from across the state who are funded by Institutional Development Awards (IDeA) from the National Institute of General Medical Sciences of the National Institutes of Health. This gathering will showcase research discovery, allow sharing of best practices and an opportunity to better coordinate the basic, clinical, and translational research and investigator development programs that are supported by the IDeA funding programs in Rhode Island. Keynote: Andrew Marshall, PhD, Chief Editor of Nature Biotechnology. Rhode Island IDeA Symposium (Advance-CTR) Biology, Medicine, Public Health, Research, Training, Professional Development Jun 6 12:00pm DSCoV Workshop: Ben Knorlein 164 Angell Street Ben Knorlein, CCV “Getting Started with Virtual Reality” This workshop will provide an introduction to Virtual Reality and how it can easily be applied to research. We will demonstrate 3 programs that can be used to visualize and interact with data in VR: Paraview (scientific visualization), A-Frame (web visualization), and Unity3D (game development platform). Registration is required. Please use this link. 164 Angell Street, 4th Floor Carney Innovation Space 12:00 pm, lunch will be served Organized by Thomas Serre. Sponsored by the Data Science Initiative. DSCoV Workshop: Ben Knorlein Biology, Medicine, Public Health, Education, Teaching, Instruction, Mathematics, Technology, Engineering, Psychology & Cognitive Sciences, Social Sciences May 30 12:00pm DSCoV Workshop: Paul Stey 164 Angell Street Want to become a Kaggle Master, start a tech company, or succeed in research? Ready to get your hands dirty and learn the data science and programming skills needed to solve real-world data science problems? What: Lunchtime workshops targeting a range of skill levels; food will be served When: Thursdays, 12 PM - 1 PM Where: Carney Institute Innovation Hub, 164 Angell Street, 4th floor (above the bookstore) Who: Open to all members of the Brown community; led by Brown faculty, staff, and students; limited to 40 participants This Week’s Topic: Please join us this Thursday, May 30 at noon in the Carney Innovation Hub for Solving the Two-Language Problem with Julia. The Julia language aims to give its users the rare combination of exceptional performance and expressiveness. its syntax is similar to MATLAB or Python, but its performance is on the order of C, Fortran, or C++. This tutorial provides an introduction to Julia, explores its many features, and demonstrates its advantages for data science and technical computing more broadly. No prior experience with Julia is necessary. This workshop will be instructed by Paul Stey, Director of Computing and Data Science at Brown. Pizza will be served. Please use the link below to see further event information and RSVP, as seats are limited. Please register here. DSCoV Workshop: Paul Stey Biology, Medicine, Public Health, Mathematics, Technology, Engineering, Research May 26 All Day Commencement Commencement Commencement Academic Calendar, University Dates & Events, Spring Semester May 23 12:00pm DSCoV lunch | Beauty and the Brain: A data scientist’s perspective 164 Angell Street Is there inherent beauty deeply embedded in our brain? Can we visualize the mind? How noisy sensory data measured from scalp EEG can help us understand the orchestra of the human mind? Presenter: Prasanta Pal Pizza will be served. Seats are limited. Please register. DSCoV lunch | Beauty and the Brain: A data scientist’s perspective Biology, Medicine, Public Health, Faith, Spirituality, Worship, Mathematics, Technology, Engineering, Philosophy, Religious Studies, Physical & Earth Sciences, Psychology & Cognitive Sciences, Research May 13 5:00pm - 6:30pm Team Science Workshop Women & Infants Hospital In this interactive workshop, Katie Sharkey, MD, PhD, and Debbie Cornman, PhD, will discuss the latest findings in the “science of team science,” and teach investigators how to implement strategies and techniques for successful team science approaches into their own research. Workshop is free but registration is required. Learn more. Team Science Workshop (Advance-CTR) Advising, Mentorship, Biology, Medicine, Public Health, Careers, Recruiting, Internships, Education, Teaching, Instruction, Entrepreneurship, Graduate School, Postgraduate Education, Research, Training, Professional Development May 13 4:00pm Forrest Crawford, PhD 164 Angell Street FORREST CRAWFORD Associate Professor, Department of Biostatistics, Operations, and Ecology, and Evolutionary Biology, School of Public Health, Yale University Causal Inference Under Spillover and Contagion: Structural Versus Agnostic Methods How do researchers learn about the effects of interventions when treatment to one individual affects others? Two competing paradigms dominate statistical approaches toestimating the effects of interventions ininterconnected/interacting groups under spillover or interference between experimental units. “Mechanistic” or “structural” models capture dynamic featuresof the process by which outcomes are generated, permitting inferences with real-worldinterpretations and detailed predictions. “Agnostic”, “design-based”, or “reduced form” approaches, often based on notions of randomization, refrain from specifying thefull joint distribution of the data, and provide inferences that arerobust to model mis-specification. Statisticians, data scientists, economists, epidemiologists, and other scientists often disagree about whichof these paradigms is superior for studies of interventions among potentially interacting individuals, with competing claims about modelrealism, bias, and credibility of inferences. In this presentation, Ireview methods for estimating the causal effect of an individualistic treatment under spillover, with special attention to the case of contagion, whereby units can transmit their outcome to others in a way that depends on their treatment. I define a formal structural model of contagion,and ask what causal features agnostic or reduced-form estimatesrecover. I exhibit analytically and by simulation the circumstancesunder which “agnostic” estimates imply aneffect whose direction is opposite that of the true individualistictreatment effect. Furthermore, I show that widely recommended randomization designs and estimators may provide misleading inferences about the direct effect of an intervention when outcomes are contagious. These ideas are illustrated in three empirical examples: transmission of tuberculosis, product adoption, and peer recruitment in social networks. Forrest W. Crawford PhD is Associate Professor, Department of Biostatistics, Yale School of Public Health, Yale School of Management (Operations), and Department of Ecology & Evolutionary Biology, Yale University. He is affiliated with the Center for Interdisciplinary Research on AIDS, the Institute for Network Science, the Computational Biology and Bioinformatics program, and the Public Health Modeling concentration. He is the recipient of the NIH Director’s New Innovator Award and a Yale Center for Clinical Investigation Scholar Award. His research interests include causal inference, networks, graphs, stochastic processes, and optimization for applications in epidemiology, public health, and social science. Monday, May 13 4:00 PM – 5:00 PM 164 Angell Street, 3rd Floor Open Space Coffee and pastry to be served. Sponsored by: Data Science Initiative Forrest Crawford, PhD May 8 4:00pm - 5:00pm COBRE CBHD Seminar: Marco De Cecco, PhD 164 Angell Street Please join the COBRE Center for Computational Biology of Human Disease, the Center for Computational Molecular Biology, and the Data Science Initiative for the COBRE CBHD Seminar. Marco De Cecco will present. Title: TBD COBRE CBHD Seminar: Marco De Cecco, PhD Biology, Medicine, Public Health, Mathematics, Technology, Engineering, Psychology & Cognitive Sciences, Research May 8 4:00pm - 5:00pm COBRE CBHD Seminar: Marco De Cecco, PhD 164 Angell Street Please join the COBRE Center for Computational Biology of Human Disease, the Center for Computational Molecular Biology, and the Data Science Initiative for the COBRE CBHD Seminar. Marco De Cecco will present on his newly funded COBRE CBHD research project “The Role of Line-1 Senescence-Associated Cytoplasmic DNA Accumulation.” COBRE CBHD Seminar: Marco De Cecco, PhD (Center for Computational Biology of Human Disease (COBRE)) Biology, Medicine, Public Health, Mathematics, Technology, Engineering, Psychology & Cognitive Sciences, Research Apr 26 12:00pm Data Aesthetics: Computational Media at the Service of Artful Experiences 164 Angell Street Ali Momeni 250th Anniversary Professor of the Practice Visiting Fellow in Music Ali Momeni is a Professor of Practice within the Brown Arts Initiative and Data Science Initiative. His research interests include educational technologies, human-computer interaction for performative applications of robotics, playful urban interventions, interactive projection performance, machine learning for artists and designers, interactive tools or storytelling and experiential learning, mobile and hybrid musical instruments, and the intersection of sound, music and health. Data Aesthetics: Computational Media at the Service of Artful Experiences Apr 26 8:30am - 6:00pm 3rd NorthEast Computational Health Summit (NECHS) 2019 South Street Landing On Friday April 26th, Brown University and IBM Research are co-hosting the 3rd NorthEast Computational Health Summit (NECHS) focused on the latest developments in Personal and Population Health in the Digital Era. The goal of the summit is to foster communication and collaboration among clinicians, medical informaticists, and computational researchers in the northeast. The summit will feature two invited keynotes: Susan Murphy, Professor of Statistics, Professor of Computer Science at the Harvard John A. Paulson School of Engineering and Applied Sciences and Radcliffe Alumnae Professor at the Radcliffe Institute, Harvard University Peter Embi, President & CEO Regenstrief Institute; Associate Dean for Informatics & Health Services Research, Indiana University School of Medicine There will also be an invited panel presentation led by Benjamin Marlin of the University of Massachusetts, Amherst as well as submitted papers and posters on various aspects of digital health including deep learning, observational studies, predictive modelling, translational informatics, patient engagement and health behavior. There will be ample time for less formal interactions during lunch, as well as during the poster session and breaks. To register for this event, please visit https://nechs2019.eventbrite.com . 3rd NorthEast Computational Health Summit (NECHS) 2019 (Center for Biomedical Informatics (BCBI)) Biology, Medicine, Public Health, Graduate School, Postgraduate Education, Research Apr 25 3:00pm - 7:00pm Inclusion and Representation in the Sciences 164 Angell Street This event will showcase three student-driven courses at Amherst, Brown, and Yale that focus on inclusion and representation in the sciences and provide an opportunity to engage in discussions about the content and impact of these courses. The “Being Human in Stem” Initiative at Amherst and Yale aims to foster a more inclusive, supportive STEM community by helping students, faculty, and staff collaboratively develop a framework to understand and navigate diverse identities in the classroom, lab, and beyond. The Brown course on “Race and Gender in the Scientific Community” examines disparities in representation in the scientific community, issues facing different groups in the sciences, and paths towards a more inclusive scientific environment. Please see schedule and register here. Keynote address takes place in Foxboro Auditorium, Kassar House, 151 Thayer St. Inclusion and Representation in the Sciences Identity, Culture, Inclusion, Mathematics, Technology, Engineering, Psychology & Cognitive Sciences Apr 25 1:00pm - 2:00pm Talk: Computer Security for Victims of Intimate Partner Violence (Thomas Ristenpart, Cornell Tech) Watson Center for Information Technology (CIT) In this talk I will survey our work on understanding and improving technology’s role in intimate partner violence (IPV). IPV is a widespread social ill affecting one in four women and one in six men at some point in their lives. In interviews with survivors and the professionals that work with them in New York City, our research has provided the most granular view to date of technology abuse. Abusers install spyware on mobile devices, compromise victim accounts, exploit social media for harassment, and much more. We complemented this qualitative work with a first-of-its-kind measurement study that discovered a large ecosystem of online resources aimed at helping abusers, including a variety of apps usable as IPV spyware. Unfortunately, abusers require little technology expertise to mount devastating attacks. Instead, the context of IPV undermines the assumptions underlying traditional security mechanisms such as passwords and malware detection, and, more broadly, we believe traditional approaches to computer security are not yet up to the task of helping IPV victims. We have therefore initiated work on building up a theory and practice of clinical computer security, in which trained technology professionals meet with victims to help diagnose digital insecurities and advise on potential remediations. I will discuss our ongoing field work prototyping clinical services, including deployment of a first-of-its-kind spyware detection tool in New York City, and conclude with a discussion of other domains where clinical computer security may prove useful. This is covering joint work with: Rahul Chatterjee, Nicola Dell, Peri Doerfler, Sam Havron, Karen Levy, Damon McCoy, Diana Minchala, Hadas Orgad, and Jackeline Palmer Hosts: Professor Roberto Tamassia and Evgenios Kornaropoulos Talk: Computer Security for Victims of Intimate Partner Violence (Thomas Ristenpart, Cornell Tech) Apr 25 12:00pm - 1:00pm DSCoV Workshop 164 Angell Street Data Science, Computing, and Visualization workshops are held weekly on Thursdays at noon. These are workshops on basic and advanced data science skills–different topics each week, targeting a range of skill levels. For more information, upcoming topics, and registration see the DSI website. Lunch is served (usually pizza). DSCoV Workshop Apr 24 4:00pm DSI Colloquium: Flavio du Pin Calmon 164 Angell Street FLAVIO DU PIN CALMON Assistant Professor of Electrical Engineering John A. Paulson School of Engineering, Harvard University On Representations and Fairness: A Few Information-Theoretic Tools for Machine Learning Information theory can shed light on the algorithm-independent limits of learning from data and serve as a design driver for new machine learning algorithms. In this talk, we discuss a set of information-theoretic tools that can be used to (i) help understand fairness and discrimination in machine learning and (ii) characterize data representations learned by complex learning models. On the fairness side, we explore how local perturbations of distributions can help both identify proxy features for discrimination as well as repair models for bias. On the representation learning side, we explore a theoretical tool called principal inertia components (PICs), which enjoy a long history in the statistics and information theory literature. We use the PICs to scale-up a multivariate statistical tool called correspondence analysis (CA) using neural networks, enabling data dependencies to be visualized and interpreted at a large scale. We illustrate these techniques in both synthetic and real-world datasets and discuss future research directions. Flavio P. Calmon is an Assistant Professor of Electrical Engineering at Harvard’s John A. Paulson School of Engineering and Applied Sciences. Before joining Harvard, he was the inaugural data science for social good post-doctoral fellow at IBM Research in Yorktown Heights, New York. He received his Ph.D. in Electrical Engineering and Computer Science at MIT. His main research interests are information theory, inference, and statistics, with applications to fairness, privacy, machine learning, and communications engineering. Prof. Calmon has received the NSF CAREER award, the Google Research Faculty Award, the IBM Open Collaborative Research Award, and Harvard’s Lemann Brazil Research Fund Award. Wednesday, April 24 4:00 PM – 5:00 PM 164 Angell Street, 3rd Floor Open Space Coffee and pastry to be served. Hosted by Sarah M. Brown. Sponsored by the Data Science Initiative. DSI Colloquium: Flavio du Pin Calmon Biology, Medicine, Public Health, Mathematics, Technology, Engineering, Research Apr 23 9:00am - 10:00am Carney Institute Coffee Hour: Inside our Centers and Initiatives 164 Angell Street Are you curious about the five Carney Institute centers and initiatives? Over coffee and baked goods, get an insider’s look at the centers and discover what they offer to the Carney community – from grant opportunities to fellowships to workshops. Carney Institute Centers & Initiatives Computation in Brain and Mind Center for Vision Research COBRE Center for Central Nervous System Function MRI Research Facility Center for the Neurobiology of Cells and Circuits Carney Institute Coffee Hour: Inside our Centers and Initiatives (Carney Institute for Brain Science) Apr 22 4:00pm - 5:00pm Brown Statistics Seminar featuring Eloise Kaizar, PhD, Ohio State University 121 South Main Street Eloise Kaizar, PhD Associate Professor of Statistics Co-Vice Chair for Undergraduate Studies and Administration Ohio State University “Watching your Weights: Generalizing from a Randomized Trial to a ‘Real World’ Target Population” Randomized controlled trials are often thought to provide definitive evidence on the magnitude of treatment effects. But because treatment modifiers may have a different distribution in a real world population than among trial participants, trial results may not directly reflect the average treatment effect that would follow real world adoption of a new treatment. Recently, weight-based methods have been repurposed to more provide more relevant average effect estimates for real populations. In this talk, I summarize important analytical choices involving what should and should not be borrowed from other applications of weight-based estimators, make evidence-based recommendations about confidence interval construction, and present conjectures about best choices for other aspects of statistical inference. Brown Statistics Seminar featuring Eloise Kaizar, PhD, Ohio State University (Biostatistics) Biology, Medicine, Public Health, BioStatsSeminar, Education, Teaching, Instruction, Graduate School, Postgraduate Education, Mathematics, Technology, Engineering, Research, Training, Professional Development Apr 18 4:00pm LCDS and DSI Seminar presents Sherry Towers, Arizona State University 170 Hope Street LCDS and DSI Seminar Thursday, April 18, 2019 4:00pm Room 108, 170 Hope Street Sherry Towers, Arizona State University “Assessing the average length of infection chains in outbreaks of infectious disease like measles” Analytical expressions for the reproduction number, R0, and final size have been obtained in the past for an extremely wide variety of mathematical models for infectious disease spread. However, what has so far not been studied is the average number of infections that descend down the chains of infection begun by each of the individuals infected in an outbreak (we refer to this quantity as the “average number of descendant infections” per infectious individual, or ANDI). ANDI includes not only the number of people that an individual directly contacts and infects, but also the number of people that those go on to infect, and so on until the chain of infection dies out. Quantification of ANDI has relevance to the anti-vaccine debate; if the individual probability of hospitalization with a disease is p, the probability that at least one individual down an average chain of infection is hospitalized is 1-(1-p)^ANDI. Here we examine a Susceptible, Infected, Recovered (SIR) model, and obtain the analytic expression for ANDI. We compare the estimates of ANDI from this expression to those obtained using an Agent Base Monte Carlo formalism that keeps track of who infected whom. We find that ANDI is maximized for smaller effective R0, and that ANDI in even relatively small populations can be literally dozens of individuals. For outbreaks of diseases like measles in populations with sub-standard vaccine coverage, we find that the infection of an unvaccinated individual on average has almost 100% probability of resulting in the hospitalization of at least one person down the infection chain that began with that individual. While the model examined in this initial analysis is simple, the analytic and computational formalisms we have developed can be expanded to a wide variety of models for disease spread. LCDS and DSI Seminar presents Sherry Towers, Arizona State University Apr 17 4:00pm - 5:30pm CCMB Honors Thesis presentations 164 Angell Street CCMB Honors Thesis presentations Apr 17 12:00pm - 2:00pm MNE-Python EEG Data Analysis Workshop Series: Day 2 164 Angell Street, 4th floor This is the second of a series of three workshops on EEG data analysis using MNE-python (https://martinos.org/mne/stable/index.html). See https://jasmainak.github.io/mne-workshop-brown/intro for further details. Please complete this form to confirm your registration for Day 2 of the EEG Data Analysis Workshop (details on the workshop can be found below). Attendees of Day 1 will be given first access to the registration, but please note that registration will be open to the general public on April 12, and the space is still limited to 40 participants. During Day 1 (April 5th), we discussed methods for going from raw data to epoch averaged responses. A video capture of Day 1 can be found here: https://www.dropbox.com/s/x0elvmo6785o7tb/20190405_mne_workshop_day1.mp4?dl=0 Day 2 (April 17) will focus on data preprocessing using different filtering methods, including temporal filtering, Autoreect for artifact rejection, and spatial filtering. Day 3 (date TBD) will focus on source localization methods. The tutorial will be accessed through a Hub, as such a valid email address is required by all participants. If you have one, please use your Brown University email address. The workshop is limited to 40 participants., and we will check to ensure that the attendee information matches the information in the form above. MNE-Python EEG Data Analysis Workshop Series: Day 2 (Carney Institute for Brain Science) Biology, Medicine, Public Health, Mathematics, Technology, Engineering, Psychology & Cognitive Sciences, Research Apr 15 4:00pm - 5:00pm Brown Statistics Seminar featuring Leonidas Bantis, PHD, University of Kansas Medical Center 121 South Main Street Leonidas Bantis, PhD Assistant Professor Department of Biostatistics University of Kansas Medical Center “ Inference in ROC curves for two phase nested case-control biomarker studies” Two-phase nested case-control sampling designs are common in biomarker evaluation studies. In the first phase (phase I), a large sample size that is representative of the target population is available and is referenced mainly for clinical characteristics of the participants. In the second phase (phase II), biomarker measurements are taken only on a subsample of phase I participants due to limited resources. Since this subsampling is usually done based on some matching criteria, inherent bias is present. For example, when dealing with a lung cancer study, matching cases and controls for smoking status may be crucial. This biased sampling needs to be taken into account when clinical questions that refer to the target population are of interest. While many researchers focus on the area under the ROC curve to assess the discriminatory ability of a biomarker, such a measure does not provide an appealing clinical interpretation. Clinicians are most often interested in the performance of a biomarker at high levels of sensitivity or specificity to avoid under-diagnosis or over-diagnosis, respectively. This is driven by the seriousness of a false negative or the invasiveness of the work-up required to identify a false positive. We develop a new statistical methodology to obtain estimates of the sensitivity at a given specificity (or vice versa), i.e. for the ROC(t), at a given t, with its corresponding confidence intervals, while also accounting for the aforementioned biased sampling scheme. We provide estimates for the ROC curve that are parametric, flexible parametric based on power transformations, and smooth kernel-based non-parametric. We also explore the construction of the corresponding confidence intervals. We prove asymptotic consistency of our estimators and provide an easy to use optimal bandwidth in terms of asymptotic mean integrated squared error. We will discuss two real data sets related to lung and prostate cancer. Brown Statistics Seminar featuring Leonidas Bantis, PHD, University of Kansas Medical Center (Biostatistics) Biology, Medicine, Public Health, Education, Teaching, Instruction, Graduate School, Postgraduate Education, Mathematics, Technology, Engineering, Training, Professional Development Apr 15 4:00pm DSI Colloquium: Jeremy Kepner 164 Angell Street Enabling AI Impact Recent AI miracles in vision, language, and strategy are the result of enormous strides in computing, big data, and algorithms. Effectively exploiting these AI capabilities for science and engineering requires mathematically rigorous interfaces that allow scientists and engineers to focus on their research and avoid rewriting software. Mathematically rigorous interfaces are at the core of the MIT SuperCloud and let it deliver leading-edge technologies to thousands of scientists and engineers. This talk discusses the rapidly evolving AI computing landscape and how mathematically rigorous interfaces are key to exploiting advanced computing capabilities. Dr. Kepner is a Lincoln Laboratory Fellow and founder of the MIT Lincoln Laboratory Supercomputing Center (LLSC). He is focused on creating state-of-the-art computing capabilities to enable scientific and engineering breakthroughs to solve the Nation’s most challenging problems. Dr. Kepner co-invented the Massachusetts Green High Performance Supercomputing Center (MGHPCC), the largest and “greenest” open research data center in the world that has enabled a dramatic increase in MIT’s computing capabilities while reducing its CO2 footprint. The LLSC’s pioneering interactive supercomputing capability and unique MIT SuperCloud system accelerates the award-winning innovations of thousands of MIT researchers. Under Dr. Kepner’s leadership, the LLSC team has been recognized for its outstanding contributions to numerous R&D 100 Award-winning technologies that have improved airline safety, prevented the spread of new diseases, and aided numerous hurricane and earthquake victims. Dr. Kepner is the founding sponsor of the Wilkinson Prize-winning Julia programming language used by millions of programmers world-wide. Host: Andrew Crotty DSI Colloquium: Jeremy Kepner Apr 11 12:00pm DSCoV lunch | Nonorthogonal source-separation for guided network discovery 164 Angell Street DSCoV lunch and workshop lead by Mike X. Cohen, Associate professor at Radboud University Medical Centre, Nijmegen, Netherlands, and Donders Centre for Neuroscience Event abstract: Increases in the number of simultaneously recorded electrodes allows new discoveries about the spatiotemporal structure in the brain, but also presents new challenges for data analyses. “Source separation” analyses generally have the goal of taking weighted combinations of electrodes to obtain a single component, thus reducing the number of dimensions from M electrodes to C components. The workshop will introduce one family of source separation techniques, which is based on generalized eigendecomposition, and will include a mix of lecture/discussion and hands-on practical work in MATLAB using simulated and real electrophysiology data. Bring your laptop! Pizza will be served. Space is limited – please RSVP through the link below: https://www.eventbrite.com/e/dscov-lunch-nonorthogonal-source-separation-for-guided-network-discovery-tickets-59870242507?ref=estw DSCoV lunch | Nonorthogonal source-separation for guided network discovery Biology, Medicine, Public Health, Mathematics, Technology, Engineering, Psychology & Cognitive Sciences, Research Apr 8 1:00pm - 2:00pm Exploring Mindfulness Offerings in Native American Communities: A Special Lecture with Dr. Jeffrey Proulx 121 South Main Street Abstract Native Americans have higher rates than whites of contracting, experiencing complications from, and death due to diabetes and other diseases. As stress may exacerbate the effects of many diseases in Native communities, research is beginning to explore how stress reduction interventions may affect long-term health in these communities. However, psychological stress in these communities needs to be understood within the complex intersection of daily stress compounded by historical stress. Further, a distrust of western medicine in Native communities and poor understanding in psychology and medicine of Native communities is often an obstacle to effective communication and treatment. Dr. Proulx’s presentation explores the development of mindfulness-based programs that were designed to address diabetes in Native communities in Oregon and California. His approach addresses the intersectionality of cultural trauma, daily stress, and poor health behaviors with the hope that 8 weeks of practicing the Native mindfulness class will reduce the physiologic risk that stress contributes to diabetes outcomes as well as reduce the psychological stress of managing diabetes. In particular, he explores the long process of trust building and community engagement that allowed us to gain community buy-in and commitment to the mindfulness programs. Further, he discusses how community members were invited to guide the years-long research study and adapt the current models of stress reduction and mindfulness to include Native traditions that are also inherently mindful. He will also discuss the challenges of engaging in psychosocial and medical research in rural Native communities and will provide opportunity for discussion on these topics. About Dr. Jeffrey Proulx Dr. Jeffrey Proulx’s primary research focuses on developmental health psychology and integrative health. He is particularly interested in the relationship between psychological stress and long-term physical health. Further, he is interested in the development of stress reduction programs, particularly those that are contemplative-based, as a means to protect health across the lifespan. He is a Native American with a strong interest in the study of health in underserved communities and much of his recent work has centered on culturally-specific stress reduction programs. To this end, he is currently funded by a K99/R00 award from the National Institutes of Health (NIH) National Center for Complementary and Integrative Health to study the effects of mindfulness in Native American communities as a means to address diabetes. His professional activities include participation on the OHSU School of Medicine Wellness Committee (with a focus on physician/nurse burnout) and he serves on the Spiritual Care Team for patients at the hospital. He is also currently working with researchers at Oregon State University on research exploring the effects of meditation in Native communities in Oregon and on other stress and coping-related projects. All of this is tied into his long-term effort to understand the extent to which integrative stress reduction methods can lower stress-related diseases among individuals and the practitioners who care for them. Exploring Mindfulness Offerings in Native American Communities: A Special Lecture with Dr. Jeffrey Proulx (Mindfulness Center) Biology, Medicine, Public Health, Free, Health Equity, Health, Identity, Culture, Inclusion, Mindfulness, Native American, Research, Social Sciences Apr 5 12:00pm Founder Friday with Cristian Anthony ’96 and Jason Klein ’00: Building a world class social analytics company Weiner Center (Hillel) How can a social analytics company help world class brands like Amazon, Warner Brothers, or Michael Kors understand their customers better? Join Brown alum co-founders and co-CEOs, Christian Anthony ’96 and Jason Klein ’00, and learn how they built ListenFirst, an industry leader in social analytics for major consumer brands and the only social analytics company that provides the full spectrum of online engagement for their customers. With deep roots in media & entertainment, ListenFirst takes social analytics and connects to business outcomes. Their comprehensive social intelligence solutions analyze and unite billions of real-time digital and social media signals across more than 50,000 brands and 20+ industries — from owned, earned, paid, conversation, and video content engagement to behavioral analytics, brand affinities, and influencer tracking. This information empowers brands to develop engaging content, set KPIs, optimize strategy and performance, and drive their bottom line. Built for marketers by marketers, ListenFirst was founded to drive a future where data, not just instinct, helps guide the way brands make decisions. Meet the speakers: Christian is a serial entrepreneur with extensive experience in business strategy, finance, marketing and advertising. After beginning his career as an investment banker at JP Morgan, he founded InSound, an online music store, in 1998. Four years later, he founded Special Ops Media, a first-of-its-kind digital agency that worked with top global brands such as The Coca-Cola Company, Dell, PUMA, North America and Boots Healthcare. After Special Ops was acquired by LBi in 2008, he led the company as CEO before stepping down to start ListenFirst. Christian graduated from Brown University. He serves on Brown University’s President’s Advisory Council on Entrepreneurship and is a Board Member at Venture for America, as well as a member of Young President’s Organization. Jason is a multi-time entrepreneur who has helped brands navigate the changing digital landscape for decades. He founded Special Ops Media (acquired by LBi in 2008) and then served as Co-President of LBi US (later acquired by Publicis in 2012). At LBi, he was responsible for the agency’s Media, ePR and Social Media offerings. Jason has appeared on countless industry lists, including Variety’s Indie 50, MediaPost’s Rising Stars of Digital Media, and, most recently, Ad Age’s prestigious 40 Under 40. Jason graduated Magna Cum Laude from Brown University and attended medical school at Columbia University. He serves on the Board of Scenarios USA. RSVP here. All of our events are open to the public. A bagged lunch will be served following the event. Founder Friday with Cristian Anthony ’96 and Jason Klein ’00: Building a world class social analytics company (Jonathan M. Nelson Center for Entrepreneurship) Apr 3 4:00pm - 5:00pm COBRE CBHD Seminar: Lorin Crawford, PhD 164 Angell Street Please join the COBRE Center for Computational Biology of Human Disease (CBHD), the Center for Computational Molecular Biology, and the Data Science Initiative for the COBRE CBHD Seminar. Lorin Crawford, PhD, from the Dept of Biostatisticis in the School of Public Health will present on his recently ended COBRE CBHD Institutional pilot award and his new COBRE CBHD research project. His talk is titled, “Machine Learning Methods for Epistatic Mapping and Discovery in Genome-wide Association Studies.” COBRE CBHD Seminar: Lorin Crawford, PhD (Center for Computational Biology of Human Disease (COBRE)) Biology, Medicine, Public Health, Mathematics, Technology, Engineering, Research Apr 3 2:00pm - 5:00pm Clinical Research Office Hours URI Nursing Education Center Clinical Research Office Hours are now available in Providence! If you have questions about a clinical research project, don’t miss this opportunity to speak directly with our experts, Bharat Ramratnam, MD, chief science officer and medical director at the Lifespan Clinical Research Center; and Andrew Schumacher, MSCHE, director of clinical trials for the Lifespan Oncology Clinical Research Office and the Lifespan Clinical Research Center. Expertise Includes: Clinical trials operations Study design Budget development Regulatory proposals Who Should Attend: Rhode Island investigators and research staff are encouraged to attend these office hours to discuss any questions as they relate to clinical research and/or specific projects. Event Details and Registration: Office Hours will be held on Wednesday, April 3, 2019 from 2-5 p.m. at the URI Nursing Education Center, 350 Eddy Street, Room 224, in Providence, Rhode Island. Attendees must register in advance to reserve a time slot with our experts. Availability for walk-ins cannot be guaranteed. Sign up now. Clinical Research Office Hours (Advance-CTR) Advising, Mentorship, Biology, Medicine, Public Health, Education, Teaching, Instruction, Graduate School, Postgraduate Education, Psychology & Cognitive Sciences, Research, Social Sciences, Training, Professional Development Apr 2 12:00pm - 1:30pm Advance-CTR Biostatistics Core Seminar Series 70 Ship Street Presented by the Research Design, Epidemiology, and Biostatistics Core of Advance-CTR, this bi-monthly Seminar Series offers instruction on data analysis (first Tuesday of each month), and study design (last Thursday of each month). The Seminars are available to attend in-person, or remotely via Zoom. Jess Kaminsky & Gabriella Silva: “Introduction to Probability” Language of probability, basic set theory, basic conditional probability and bayes’ theorem, independence, basics of diagnostic test statistics. Register to watch remotely. Advance-CTR Biostatistics Core Seminar Series (Advance-CTR) Biology, Medicine, Public Health, Research, Training, Professional Development Apr 1 4:00pm - 5:00pm Brown Statistics C. V. Starr Lecture featuring Nilanjan Chatterjee, PHD, Johns Hopkins University 121 South Main Street Nilanjan Chatterjee, PhD Bloomberg Distinguished Professor, Department of Biostatistics, Bloomberg School of Public Health Department of Oncology, School of Medicine Johns Hopkins University “ Leveraging Polygenicity of Complex Traits to Inform Biology, Causality and Prediction” Using results from modern genome-wide association studies (GWAS), we and others have now unequivocally demonstrated that complex traits are extremely polygenic, with each individual trait potentially involving thousands to tens of thousands of genetic variants. While each individual variant may have a small effect on a given trait, in combination, they can explain substantial variation of the trait in the underlying population. In the past, analyses of GWAS have mainly focused on modelling genetic susceptibility one-variant-at-a-time, and identifying those which reach stringent statistical significance for association. In the future, however, we advocate that analysis needs to focus more on polygenic modelling to exploit the power of diffused signals in GWAS. In this talk, I will review recent advances in statistical methods for polygenic analysis, as well as scientific knowledge gained through their applications, in three areas of major interest (i) understanding biology through genomic enrichment analysis (ii) exploring causality through Mendelian Randomization (Genetic Instrumental Variable) analysis and (iii) and informing precision medicine through development of risk prediction models. Brown Statistics C. V. Starr Lecture featuring Nilanjan Chatterjee, PHD, Johns Hopkins University (Biostatistics) Biology, Medicine, Public Health, Education, Teaching, Instruction, Graduate School, Postgraduate Education, Mathematics, Technology, Engineering, Research, Training, Professional Development Apr 1 12:00pm Seminar: Computational neuroscience for causal tools in humans Metcalf Research Building Computational neuroscience for causal tools in humans Mitsuo Kawato Advanced Telecommunications Research Institute International Kyoto, Japan Hosts: Takeo Watanabe, Yuka Sasaki, and Jerome Sanes Seminar: Computational neuroscience for causal tools in humans (Carney Institute for Brain Science) Mar 28 3:00pm - 4:00pm Opportunities in Brain Science: Current Funding Trends & Career Advice 164 Angell Street The Carney Institute is launching a new monthly series to share opportunities as well as some of the incredible work going on around the institute. The first Carney Institute Coffee Hour will be held March 28, 3 - 4 p.m., in our Innovation Zone. If you’re a graduate student or postdoc in brain science, join Carney Institute Director Diane Lipscombe and Managing Director John Davenport for a discussion of current funding trends and career advice. Opportunities in Brain Science: Current Funding Trends & Career Advice (Carney Institute for Brain Science) Mar 28 12:00pm - 1:30pm Advance-CTR Biostatistics Core Seminar Series Brown University Medical Education Building (Alpert Medical School) Presented by the Research Design, Epidemiology, and Biostatistics Core of Advance-CTR, this bi-monthly Seminar Series offers instruction on data analysis (first Tuesday of each month), and study design (last Thursday of each month). The Seminars are available to attend in-person, or remotely via Zoom. Jess Kaminsky & Gabriella Silva: “Experimental Study Design” Advantages and disadvantages of experimental studies, individual vs. group trials, preventive vs. therapeutic trials, parallel RCTs, factorial study design, new drug trials, sources of potential bias. Register to watch remotely. Advance-CTR Biostatistics Core Seminar Series (Advance-CTR) Biology, Medicine, Public Health, Research, Training, Professional Development Mar 28 12:00pm - 12:45pm Meet the Mindfulness Center: Open Community Meditation South Street Landing The Mindfulness Center at Brown welcomes you to a lunchtime mindfulness practice. Join us for a guided sitting meditation and discussion on mindfulness. Free and open to the public. Thursday, March 28, 2019, 12:00–12:45pm. South Street Landing, Room 498 Please RSVP here. About the Mindfulness Center at Brown: Mindfulness Research, Education and Training The Mindfulness Center at Brown University has educational programs for newcomers and seasoned practitioners. The Mindfulness Center at Brown brings together top academics in mindfulness research with leading educators in the field. We are dedicated to rigorous research, student-centered education, and a global presence to share mindfulness practices that improve individual lives and organizational effectiveness. http://www.brown.edu/mindfulnesscenter Meet the Mindfulness Center: Open Community Meditation (Mindfulness Center) Athletics, Sports, Wellness, Community Meditation, Free, Health, Meditation, Mindfulness Mar 26 11:00am - 3:00pm 22nd Mind Brain Research Day Brown Campus Event Date: Tuesday, March 26th Keynote Address: Begins promptly at 1:00 pm, Salomon Hall Keynote Speaker: Joshua A. Gordon, MD, PhD Director, National Institute of Mental Health Talk Title: On Being a Circuit Psychiatrist Poster Session: 11:00 am—12:45 pm Lunch: Available from 11:30 am—12:45 pm at Sayles Hall YOU MUST RSVP TO RESERVE A LUNCH (even if you submitted a poster) PLEASE RSVP HERE Poster Awards: After keynote address 22nd Mind Brain Research Day (Psychiatry and Human Behavior) Mar 20 4:00pm - 5:00pm COBRE CBHD Seminar: Iuliana Ene, PhD 164 Angell Street Please join the COBRE Center for Computational Biology of Human Disease, the Center for Computational Molecular Biology, and the Data Science Initiatve for the COBRE CBHD Seminar. Iuliana Ene, PhD, MMI Department will present on her pilot project and on her submitted research proposal. Title: Genome evolution and population heterogeneity in a human fungal pathogen COBRE CBHD Seminar: Iuliana Ene, PhD (Center for Computational Biology of Human Disease (COBRE)) Mar 15 8:00am - 12:00pm Systematic Review Half-Day Course 121 South Main Street Presented by the Clinical Research Design, Epidemiology, and Biostatistics Core of Advance-CTR What is evidence-based medicine, and how do we sort and evaluate available evidence to support decision-makers? In this half-day course, experts from Brown’s School of Public Health will discuss: The role and value of systematic reviews, the basic steps involved in conducting a systematic review, and how they can be applied to public health and health policy; The major principles and techniques of statistical analysis of meta-analytic data with a focus on summary data from reports and individual data from studies; and Meta-analysis in the context of evidence-based science, with discussion around the basic principles of network meta-analysis and the validity of its assumptions, including the key role that potential effect modifiers play. Brown University research librarians will also discuss the resources and support available to clinical and academic faculty who would like to conduct a systematic review. Participants will gain an increased awareness and knowledge of how systematic reviews can: Enable better choice of or recommendation of treatments; and Lead to more accurate diagnosis. Accreditation: The Warren Alpert Medical School is accredited by the Accreditation Council for Continuing Medical Education (ACCME) to provide continuing medical education for physicians. Credit Designation: Physicians: The Warren Alpert Medical School of Brown University designates this live activity for a maximum of 3.5 AMA PRA Category 1 Credits™. Physicians should claim only the credit commensurate with the extent of their participation in the activity. Other Healthcare Professionals: Participants will receive a Certificate of Attendance stating this program is designated for 3.5 hours AMA PRA Category 1 Credits™. This credit is accepted by the AAPA and AANP. Featuring: Kristin Danko, PhD, Postdoctoral Research Associate in Health Services, Policy and Practice at the Brown University School of Public Health Ian Saldanha, MD, MPH, Assistant Professor of Health Services, Policy and Practice, Assistant Professor of Epidemiology at the Brown University School of Public Health Christopher Schmid, PhD, Professor of Biostatistics, Chair of Biostatistics at the Brown University School of Public Health Details: This course is free but registration is required as space is limited. Register now using the link above. Systematic Review Half-Day Course (Advance-CTR) Biology, Medicine, Public Health, Education, Teaching, Instruction, Graduate School, Postgraduate Education, Mathematics, Technology, Engineering, Research, Training, Professional Development Mar 13 4:00pm DSI Colloquia: Priya Kohli 164 Angell Street Parsimonious Data-Based Methods for Covariance Estimation in Multivariate Longitudinal Data Multivariate longitudinal studies are quite common in clinical trials and biological research. Studying the joint evolution and dependence patterns among outcomes of subjects over time is of interest in making recommendations for the treatment and follow-up of subjects to guide the development of appropriate interventions. The covariance matrix is a fundamental quantity that helps us understand the evolution and dynamic nature of relationships among multiple outcomes. Estimating the covariance matrix is quite challenging in multivariate longitudinal applications where the number of parameters grows quadratically with both the number of outcomes and repeated time points. Few, if any, graphical and data-driven tools have been explored for multivariate longitudinal data. In this work, we tackle this challenge by using modified Cholesky block parameters of the inverse covariance matrix and extending the regressograms to visualize dependence patterns present in the multivariate longitudinal studies. We illustrate the applicability of the proposed approach through empirical examples. * Joint work with Tanya P. Garcia and Mohsen Pourahmadi. DSI Colloquia: Priya Kohli Mar 11 4:00pm - 5:00pm C. V. Starr Foundation Lecture: Susan Athey, PhD, Stanford University 121 South Main Street Susan Athey, PhD The Economics of Technology Professor Stanford Graduate School of Business “Machine Learning and Causal Inference for Heterogeneous Treatment Effects” This talk will review recently developed methods to apply machine learning methods to causal inference problems, including the problems of estimating heterogeneous treatment effects, for example, in A/B testing, as well as in estimating optimal treatment assignment policies. C. V. Starr Foundation Lecture: Susan Athey, PhD, Stanford University (Biostatistics) Biology, Medicine, Public Health, Education, Teaching, Instruction, Graduate School, Postgraduate Education, Mathematics, Technology, Engineering, Research, Training, Professional Development Mar 11 4:00pm Ashley Buchanan - DSI Guest Speaker 164 Angell Street Toward Evaluation of Dissemination of HIV Prevention Interventions Among Networks of People who Inject Drugs Like many other populations, people who inject drugs are embedded in social networks or communities (e.g., injection drug, non-injection drug, sexual risk) and exert biological and social influence on the members of their social networks. The direct effect is the effect on the index participants (i.e., participants who received the intervention) and the disseminated (or indirect) effect is the effect on the participants who shared a network with the index participant. We analyzed a network of people who inject drugs from the Social Factors and HIV Risk Study (SFHR), 1991 to 1993, Bushwick, New York, where links were defined by shared sexual and injection behaviors. In our setting, the study design is an observed network with a nonrandomized intervention or exposure, where information is available on each participant and their directional HIV risk connections. We assumed that smaller groupings or neighborhoods for each individual can be identified in the data. We used an inverse probability weighted approach to quantify the direct and disseminated effects of health beliefs on health-seeking behavior. Our results provide evidence of disseminated effects of attitudes among PWIDs networks and will inform the development of more effective network-based interventions that consider attitudes to prevent HIV/AIDS and improve care among PWIDs. Ashley Buchanan, Assistant Professor Department of Pharmacy Practice, College of Pharmacy University of Rhode Island Ashley Buchanan - DSI Guest Speaker Mar 8 9:00am - 4:00pm Publishing Python Data Analysis Projects: Workshop 164 Angell Street This workshop is for computational researchers who work in python to learn to organize and package their code for release. After this workshop, learners will be prepared to reorganize and existing project or set up existing projects to be released as open source code that is reusable by others in their work, beyond reproducing a paper’s result. See the learner profiles for more details on the target audience. Requirements: Participants must bring a laptop with a Mac, Linux, or Windows operating system (not a tablet, Chromebook, etc.) that they have administrative privileges on. They should have a few specific software packages installed (listed here). They are also required to abide by Code of Conduct. This workshop is primarily for researchers with a Brown University affiliation. Others may attend with prior approval from the organizer. Advance registration is required. Please register here. Kabob and Curry will be provided for lunch. Publishing Python Data Analysis Projects: Workshop Biology, Medicine, Public Health, Mathematics, Technology, Engineering Mar 7 12:00pm - 1:00pm Data Science, Computing, and Visualization Workshop 164 Angell Street March 7: Tidying, Transforming, and Visualizing Data in R Want to become a Kaggle Master, start a tech company, or succeed in research? Ready to get your hands dirty and learn the data science and programming skills needed to solve real-world data science problems? What: Lunchtime workshops targeting a range of skill levels; food will be served When: Thursdays, 12-1pm Where: Carney Institute Innovation Hub, 164 Angell Street, 4th floor (above the bookstore) Who: Open to all members of the Brown community; led by Brown faculty, staff, and students; limited to 40 participants More information and future topics on the DSI website. Lunch is provided (pizza). Data Science, Computing, and Visualization Workshop Mar 5 12:00pm - 1:30pm Advance-CTR Biostatistics Core Seminar Series 70 Ship Street Presented by the Research Design, Epidemiology, and Biostatistics Core of Advance-CTR, this bi-monthly Seminar Series offers instruction on data analysis (first Tuesday of each month), and study design (last Thursday of each month). The Seminars are available to attend in-person, or remotely via Zoom. Jess Kaminsky & Gabriella Silva: “Exploratory Data Analysis” Types of variables, summary statistics, measures of center, basic graphs (boxplots, histograms, etc). Register to watch remotely. Advance-CTR Biostatistics Core Seminar Series (Advance-CTR) Biology, Medicine, Public Health, Research, Training, Professional Development Mar 4 5:00pm - 6:30pm POSTPONED: Team Science Workshop Women & Infants Hospital Please note: Today’s Team Science Workshop has been postponed due to inclement weather. More information about the rescheduled date and details will be available soon. Please contact [email protected] with any questions. – Register now for, “Better Together: Putting Team Science Theory into Practice to Enhance Your Research,” a workshop presented by Debbie Cornman, PhD, and Katie Sharkey, MD, PhD. Medical research continues to move away from the traditional “independent investigator” model, and toward collaborative approaches that integrate diverse disciplines with traditional biomedical sciences. The National Institutes of Health established team science approaches as a major goal in its 2003 Roadmap. Yet, despite educational efforts and funding incentives, barriers toward achieving this goal remain. Many investigators are not aware of how to implement team science approaches into their research, or utilize available support. In this workshop, Debbie Cornman, PhD and Katie Sharkey, MD, PhD will discuss the latest findings in the “science of team science,” and teach investigators how to implement strategies and techniques for successful team science approaches into their own research. By the conclusion of the workshop, attendees will: Discuss the theories behind a team science approach Appraise their own readiness for engaging in team science Apply the team science approach to their own research questions Who should attend: All faculty, researchers, and affiliated staff at Brown, URI, and the affiliated hospital systems who are interested in team-based science approaches. Physician scientists and junior faculty are encouraged to attend. Accreditation: The Warren Alpert Medical School of Brown University is accredited by the Accreditation Council for Continuing Medical Education (ACCME) to provide continuing medical education for physicians. Credit designation: Physicians: The Warren Alpert Medical School of Brown University designates this live activity for a maximum of 1.5 AMA PRA Category 1 Credits™ . Physicians should claim only the credit commensurate with the extent of their participation in the activity. Learn about the presenters. POSTPONED: Team Science Workshop (Advance-CTR) Biology, Medicine, Public Health, Research, Training, Professional Development Mar 4 4:00pm - 5:00pm Brown Statistics C. V. Starr Lecture featuring Limin Peng, PhD, Emory University 121 South Main Street Limin Peng, PhD Professor, Biostatistics and Bioinformatics Rollins School of Public Health Emory University Title: Quantile Regression Modeling of Latent Trajectory Features with Longitudinal Data Quantile regression has demonstrated promising utility in longitudinal data analysis. Existing work is primarily focused on modeling cross-sectional outcomes, while outcome trajectories often carry more substantive information in practice. In this work, we develop a trajectory quantile regression framework that is designed to robustly and flexibly investigate how latent individual trajectory features are related to observed subject characteristics. The proposed models are built under multilevel modeling with usual parametric assumptions lifted or relaxed. We derive our estimation procedure by novelly transforming the problem at hand to quantile regression with perturbed responses and adapting the bias correction technique for handling covariate measurement errors. We establish desirable asymptotic properties of the proposed estimator, including uniform consistency and weak convergence. Extensive simulation studies confirm the validity of the proposed method as well as its robustness. An application to the DURABLE trial uncovers sensible scientific findings and illustrates the practical value of our proposals. Brown Statistics C. V. Starr Lecture featuring Limin Peng, PhD, Emory University (Biostatistics) Biology, Medicine, Public Health, Education, Teaching, Instruction, Graduate School, Postgraduate Education, Research, Training, Professional Development Mar 1 9:00am - 12:00pm CBC Visualization in R with tidyverse and ggplot2 Workshop Watson Center for Information Technology (CIT) Please join the Computational Biology Core as we extend the series of the Introduction to R Workshops. This workshop is specifically on creating publication quality graphs and exploratory visualizations in R under the framework of tidyverse and ggplot2, based on materials in R for data science. We ask that participants have previously attended our Fundamentals of R Workshop or have other prior familiarity with R. Please register here if you would like to participate (requires a Brown-affiliated account): https://goo.gl/forms/rfa4N8mzwjaZddwO2 CBC Visualization in R with tidyverse and ggplot2 Workshop (Center for Computational Biology of Human Disease (COBRE)) Biology, Medicine, Public Health, Mathematics, Technology, Engineering Feb 28 12:00pm - 1:30pm Advance-CTR Biostatistics Core Seminar Series Brown University Medical Education Building (Alpert Medical School) Presented by the Research Design, Epidemiology, and Biostatistics Core of Advance-CTR, this bi-monthly Seminar Series offers instruction on data analysis (first Tuesday of each month), and study design (last Thursday of each month). The Seminars are available to attend in-person, or remotely via Zoom. Jess Kaminsky: “Overview of Study Design” Cursory description of experimental vs. observational studies, including ecological studies, descriptive studies, cross-sectional studies, case-control studies, cohort studies, case reports/series. Register to watch remotely. Advance-CTR Biostatistics Core Seminar Series (Advance-CTR) Biology, Medicine, Public Health, Research, Training, Professional Development Feb 20 5:00pm - 7:00pm Algorithmic Justice: Race, Bias, and Big Data Institute at Brown for Environment & Society (IBES) Data are not objective; algorithms have biases; machine learning doesn’t produce truth. These realities have uneven effects on people’s lives, often serving to reinforce existing systemic biases and social inequalities. At the same time, data can be used in the service of social justice, and taking control of the data produced about people and its use is more and more important in our data-centric world. Brown’s Center for the Study of Race and Ethnicity in America (CSREA) and Data Science Initiative (DSI) invite you to a panel discussion about algorithms, race, and justice—the problems and the possibilities. Speakers Meredith Broussard, Assistant Professor of Journalism, Arthur L. Carter Journalism Institute, New York University Max Clermont ’11, MPH ’12, Co-founder, Head of Policy, Data for Black Lives Virginia Eubanks, Associate Professor of Political Science, University of Albany, SUNY Yeshimabeit Milner ’12, Founder and Executive Director, Data for Black Lives Samuel Sinyangwe, Co-Founder, Mapping Police Violence and Campaign Zero Presented by the Data Science Initiative and the Center for the Study of Race and Ethnicity in America at Brown University. Free and open to the public. Light reception to follow. Algorithmic Justice: Race, Bias, and Big Data (Center for the Study of Race and Ethnicity in America (CSREA)) Feb 18 All Day Theory and Practice in Machine Learning and Computer Vision 121 South Main Street Theory and Practice in Machine Learning and Computer Vision Feb 18 - 22, 2019 Recent advances in machine learning have had a profound impact on computer vision. Simultaneously, success in computer vision applications has rapidly increased our understanding of some machine learning techniques, especially their applicability. This workshop will bring together researchers who are building a stronger theoretical understanding of the foundations of machine learning with computer vision researchers who are advancing our understanding of machine learning in practice. Much of the recent growth in the use of machine learning in computer vision has been spurred by advances in deep neural networks. At the same time, new advances in other areas of machine learning, including reinforcement learning, generative models, and optimization methods, hold great promise for future impact. These raise important fundamental questions, such as understanding what influences the ability of learning algorithms to generalize, understanding what causes optimization in learning to converge to effective solutions, and understanding how to make optimization more efficient. The workshop will include machine learning researchers who are addressing these foundational questions. It will also include computer vision researchers who are applying machine learning to a host of problems, such as visual categorization, 3D reconstruction, event and activity understanding, and semantic segmentation. Theory and Practice in Machine Learning and Computer Vision Mathematics, Technology, Engineering Feb 14 12:00pm DSCoV: Data Science, Computing, and Visualization workshops 164 Angell This week’s workshop will be Part 2 of “Deep Learning with Keras/Tensorflow” for intermediate programmers. This is part of a weekly series of workshops on basic techniques and skills in data science. Open to all members of the Brown community; lunch is provided. Please register! For more information and to register, see the DSI website. DSCoV: Data Science, Computing, and Visualization workshops Mathematics, Technology, Engineering, Physical & Earth Sciences, Psychology & Cognitive Sciences, Research Feb 14 8:00am - 11:30am REDCap Class: Creating Databases & Using Surveys Rhode Island Hospital This class offers a comprehensive look at creating a database and using surveys. This longer session will cover topics from the “Getting Started” workshop and the “Surveys” workshop. Time at the end of class will be dedicated to individual questions. Attendees are encouraged to bring laptops but this is not be required. This class is complimentary but registration is required as space is limited. Reserve your spot by clicking on the link below. REDCap Class: Creating Databases & Using Surveys (Advance-CTR) Biology, Medicine, Public Health, Research, Training, Professional Development Feb 13 4:00pm - 5:00pm COBRE CBHD Seminar: The Role of Sirtuins in Neurodegenerative Disease 164 Angell Street Please join the COBRE Center for Computational Biology of Humand Disease, the Center for Computational Molecular Biology, and the Data Science Initiative for the COBRE CBHD Seminar on Wednesday, February 13, 2019, from 4 p.m. to 5 p.m. Jason Wood, PhD from the MCB Department will present. Title: The Role of Sirtuins in Neurodegenerative Disease COBRE CBHD Seminar: The Role of Sirtuins in Neurodegenerative Disease (Center for Computational Biology of Human Disease (COBRE)) Feb 7 4:00pm Data Science Talk: Grant Rotskoff 170 Hope Street Neural networks as interacting particle systems: Understanding global convergence of parameter optimization dynamics The performance of neural networks on high-dimensional data distributions suggests that it may be possible to parameterize a representation of a target high-dimensional function with controllably small errors, potentially outperforming standard interpolation methods. We demonstrate, both theoretically and numerically, that this is indeed the case. We map the parameters of a neural network to a system of particles relaxing with an interaction potential determined by the loss function. This mapping gives rise to a deterministic partial differential equation that governs the parameter evolution under gradient descent dynamics. We also show that in the limit that the number of parameters n is large, the landscape of the mean-squared error becomes convex and the representation error in the function scales link n^. In this limit, we prove a dynamical variant of the universal approximation theorem showing that the optimal representation can be attained by stochastic gradient descent, the algorithm ubiquitously used for parameter optimization in machine learning. This conceptual framework can be leveraged to develop algorithms that accelerate optimization using non-local transport. I will conclude by showing that using neuron birth/death processes in parameter optimization guarantees global convergence and provides a substantial acceleration in practice. Data Science Talk: Grant Rotskoff Mathematics, Technology, Engineering Feb 6 4:00pm DSI Colloquium: Jennifer Van 164 Angell, 3rd Floor “Data Science in the Wild: What I Wish I Knew About Data Science in Industry Before I Started” Ask any two industry data scientists what they do for their job and they will both tell you completely different responses. Come to this firsthand talk to hear about the different types of technical problems and career paths that a data scientist has experienced across Fortune 500 companies and small start-ups. Jennifer Van has degrees in Math and Computer Science from the University of Virginia. She has worked as a research scientist in computational biology labs, a research scientist on explainable artificial intelligence and the ethics of machine learning at financial institutions, and now currently works at Mapbox, a start-up, as an N LP engineer. DSI Colloquium: Jennifer Van Feb 6 11:00am - 12:30pm Academic Grand Rounds* “Research in Every Day Practice”: Using Pragmatic Designs to Develop the Evidence Base for Complementary and Integrative Health Treatment Approaches Butler Hospital Rani Elwy, PhD Associate Professor Director, Implementation Science Core Department of Psychiatry and Human Behavior Alpert Medical School of Brown University Wednesday, February 6, 2019 Butler Hospital ◊ Ray Hall Conference Center ◊ 11:00 am - 12:30 pm Objectives: At the conclusion of this presentation, participants should be able to: Articulate the important elements of practice-based research networks, pragmatic trials and population health principles; Describe the rationale for developing pragmatic trials and practice-based designs for answering translational research questions; and to Compare and contrast the scientific evidence for different forms of complementary and integrative health approaches (CIH), such as tai chi, yoga, or meditation, for pain and post-traumatic stress Disclosure: Dr. Elwy has no financial relationships to disclose. Academic Grand Rounds* “Research in Every Day Practice”: Using Pragmatic Designs to Develop the Evidence Base for Complementary and Integrative Health Treatment Approaches (Psychiatry and Human Behavior) Jan 30 4:00pm - 5:00pm COBRE CBHD Seminar: History will teach us something: Immune system examples of the effects of different scales of selection pressure Watson Center for Information Technology (CIT) Please join the COBRE Center for Computational Biology of Human Disease, the Center for Computational Molecular Biology, and the Data Science Initiative Group for our weekly Wednesday Seminar. COBRE CBHD is hosting Dr. Uri Hershberg on Wednesday, January 30, 2019, from 4 to 5 p.m., in the CIT Building (115 Waterman Street) SWIG Boardroom (Room 241) as he presents a talk entitled: History will teach us something: Immune system examples of the effects of different scales of selection pressure About the Speaker Uri Hershberg leads the Systems Immunology Lab, which is one of the leading labs in the world for the study and computational analysis of B cell receptor repertoires. SImLab has developed several tools for analysis and modeling of immunology experiments used for research published in Nature Immunology, Nature, and other leading journals. Most importantly, they have developed ImmuneDB (immuneDB.com), a tool for rapid database creation, analysis, visualization, and dissemination of high throughput B cell receptor and T cell receptor sequencing experiments. In recent work, published in Nature Biotechnology, Dr. Hershberg has used ImmuneDB to help in the first study of B cell repertoires in human tissues, leading to the discovery that the gut and blood tissues have orthogonal B cell receptor repertoires. Recent Key Publications Yaari, G., Flajnik, M., and Hershberg, U. (2018) Questions of Stochasticity and Control in Immune Repertoires. Trends in Immunology, 39(11):859-861. PDF Rosenfeld, A.M., Meng, W., Luning Prak, E.T., Hershberg, U. (2018) ImmuneDB, a Novel Tool for the Analysis, Storage, and Dissemination of Immune Repertoire Sequencing Data. Frontiers in Immunology, 2018;9: 2107. Meng, W*., Zhang, B*., (*authors contributed equally), Schwartz, G.W., Rosenfeld, A.M., Ren, D.,Thome, J.J.C., Carpenter, D.J., Matsuoka, N., Lerner, H., Friedman, A.L., Granot, T., Farber D.L., Shlomchik, M.J., Hershberg, U.* and Luning Prak, E.T.* (*corresponding authors) (2017) An atlas of B-cell clonal distribution in the human bodyb, Nature Biotechnology, 35(9):879–884, PMCID: PMC5679700. Yucel, M., Muchnik, L., and Hershberg, U. (2016) Detection of network communities with memory-biased random walk algorithms. Journal of Complex Networks, 5(1), 48-49. PDF Hershberg, U. and Luning Prak, E. T. (2015) The analysis of clonal expansions in normal and autoimmune B cell repertoires, Phil. Trans. R. Soc. B, 370: 20140239. PMCID: PMC4528416. Hershberg, U. and Shlomchik, M. J. (2006) Differences in potential for amino acid change following mutation reveals distinct strategies for kappa and lambda light chain variation, PNAS, 103(43):15963-8, PMCID:PMC1635110. COBRE CBHD Seminar: History will teach us something: Immune system examples of the effects of different scales of selection pressure (Center for Computational Biology of Human Disease (COBRE)) Jan 28 9:00am Scientific Machine Learning 121 South Main Street The machine learning revolution is already having a significant impact across the social sciences and business but it is also beginning to change computational science and engineering in fundamental and very varied ways. We are experiencing the rise of new and simpler data driven methods based on techniques from machine learning such as deep learning. This revolution allows for the development of radical new techniques to address problems known to be very challenging with traditional methods and suggests the potential dramatic enhancement of existing methods through data informed parameter selection, both in static and dynamic modes of operation. Techniques are emerging that allows us to produce realistic solutions from non-sterilized computational problems in diverse physical sciences. However, the urgent and unmet need to formally analyze, design, develop and deploy these emerging methods and develop algorithms must be addressed. Many central problems, e.g. enforcement of physical constraints in machine learning techniques and efficient techniques to deal with multiscale problems, are unmet in existing methods. The primary goal of this Hot Topic workshop is to bring together leading researchers across various fields to discuss recent results and techniques at the interface between traditional methods and emerging data driven techniques to enable innovation in scientific computing in computational science and engineering. Scientific Machine Learning Mathematics, Technology, Engineering Jan 25 9:00am - 10:30am REDCap Workshop: How to Plan for Your Study Rhode Island Hospital This workshop will focus on introductory concepts for getting your project started in REDCap. Participants will learn basic concepts and best practices for building databases in the context of their clinical research questions. The small class size will allow for individuals to ask specific questions about their individual project. This workshop is complimentary but registration is required as space is limited. Please reserve your seat by clicking on the link below. REDCap Workshop: How to Plan for Your Study (Advance-CTR) Biology, Medicine, Public Health, Research, Training, Professional Development Jan 22 8:00am - 4:30pm Advance-CTR Mentoring Training Program University of Rhode Island Join Advance-CTR for the next installment of our highly rated Mentoring Training Program on January 22, 2019 at the University of Rhode Island. Faculty who mentor junior investigators are encouraged to take advantage of this professional development opportunity. Participants will learn how to improve their relationships with mentees and become more effective mentors to investigators as they grow their research careers. The program targets faculty who mentor junior investigators who conduct clinical and translational research, which is broadly defined. Preference will be given to more senior mentors. Registration is required. Learn more about the training program and how to register on AdvanceCTR.org. Advance-CTR Mentoring Training Program (Advance-CTR) Advising, Mentorship, Biology, Medicine, Public Health, Careers, Recruiting, Internships, Research, Training, Professional Development Jan 14 All Day Models and Machines for Causal Inference and Decision Modeling 121 South Main Street Causal and mathematical models are widely used for decision making and policy evaluation at both the micro and macro levels. For example, causal models using large datasets are used to evaluate treatment efficacy in HIV; mathematical models are used to simulate the effects of prevention or policy measures to improve health outcomes or reduce the spread of infectious diseases. Entities such as the World Health Organization and UNAIDS rely on these models to set wide-ranging and high-impact policy related to treatment and prevention of infectious diseases. Causal models tend to rely on large-scale cohort data, while mathematical models in many ways represent evidence synthesis. Important methodologic issues in the development, application, and interpretation of these models include the role of untestable assumptions, transportability of findings to specific populations of interest, model calibration and validation, and uncertainty quantification. The datasets used to develop these models are complex in nature. This workshop will bring together leading researchers in the areas of modeling, machine learning, and causal inference to delve more deeply into foundational and methodologic issues and their implications, illustrate the use of these models in real-world settings, and draw connections between the two approaches. Key questions to be addressed and discussed include: What is the role of an underlying causal model in decision making? How do we quantify uncertainty from multiple sources, such as model selection, untestable assumptions, prediction uncertainty? What is the role of predictive models in causal inference? What are the connections between statistical models and mathematical agent-based models for drawing causal inferences? What is the role of machine learning in inferring causal relationships and decision making? How should methods be adapted to specialized settings (e.g., social networks)? Models and Machines for Causal Inference and Decision Modeling Dec 14 4:00pm - 5:00pm Retirement Lecture: John Savage Watson Center for Information Technology (CIT) Cybersecurity: A Grand Challenge for the Society The Department of Computer Science will host Professor John Savage on Thursday, December 13, 2018, at 4pm in CIT 368. Savage has spent 51 years at Brown and became Professor Emeritus in July 2018. To commemorate this occasion, he will give a lecture entitled “Cybersecurity: A Grand Challenge for the Society”. The cyber security problem is now a grand challenge problem that impacts all aspects of life. Making cyberspace safe is a complex problem that requires the engagement of all segments of society. Dr. John E. Savage is the An Wang Emeritus Professor of Computer Science at Brown University. He earned his PhD in Electrical Engineering at MIT in 1965, joining Bell Laboratories in the same year. He moved to Brown University in 1967, co-founded the Department of Computer Science, and served as its second chair from 1985 to 1991. He has served Brown in many capacities including as Chair of the Faculty Executive Committee and Chair of the 2002-2003 Task Force on Faculty Governance. He was a member of the MIT Corporation Visiting Committee for EECS from 1991-2002. In 2011 he gave Congressional testimony on cyber security before the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime and Terrorism of the United States Senate. He has done research on coding and communication theory, theoretical computer science, VLSI theory, silicon compilation, scientific computing, computational nanotechnology, the performance of multicore chips, reliable computing with unreliable elements, blockchain governance, and cyber security policy. He is a Guggenheim Fellow and a Fellow of AAAS and ACM, and a Life Fellow of IEEE. He served as Jefferson Science Fellow in the U.S. Department of State in 2009-2010. He is a Professorial Fellow at the EastWest Institute, a member of the Board of the Michael Dukakis Institute, and a member of the Board of Advisors of the Verified Voting Foundation. He served as a member of the Rhode Island Cybersecurity Commission and participated in the 2016 Munich Security Conference as a member of the McCain-Whitehouse U.S. Congressional Delegation. Reception to follow. Host: Professor Ugur Cetintemel Retirement Lecture: John Savage Dec 13 12:00pm - 1:00pm Talk: Anna Gommerstadt, Carnegie Mellon University Watson Center for Information Technology (CIT) Teaching Talk: Sorting Arrays Sorting algorithms are frequently taught in data structures courses to expose students to algorithmic thinking and asymptotic complexity. In this lecture, we will introduce the selection sort algorithm. As we implement selection sort, we will use program annotations (contracts) to define and reason about the correctness of our code. Time permitting, we will formally prove the correctness of our selection sort implementation. We will also review big-O notation to determine its running time. Hannah (Anna) Gommerstadt is a PhD candidate in the Computer Science Department at Carnegie Mellon University where she works with Frank Pfenning and Limin Jia. Her research interests are at the intersection of programming languages and security especially the use of language-based and logic-based methods to provide formal security guarantees. Her current work focuses on dynamic monitoring and contract enforcement in a concurrent setting. She obtained her B.A. in Computer Science and Mathematics from Harvard University. Host: Professor Kathi Fisler Talk: Anna Gommerstadt, Carnegie Mellon University (Computer Science) Dec 12 4:00pm “Integrating Genomic Data into the Electronic Health Record” Watson Center for Information Technology (CIT) Dr. Nephi Walton Genomic Medicine, Geisinger Health Systems “Integrating Genomic Data into the Electronic Health Record” As the era of precision medicine is upon us and more patients are having genetic sequencing performed, our health technology infrastructure remains largely inadequate in its ability to harness and utilize genomic data. Of the gigabytes of information generated from sequencing one patient, the information that enters the clinical realm represents only a small fraction of the useable information and even that information is not stored in a way that it can be utilized electronically to support patient care. There are many challenges surrounding the use of genomic data in the electronic health record. In this session we will address the challenges of providing clinical data in the EHR and how we can facilitate this data in the clinical workflow to provide information to both patients and providers to help manage care based on genomics. Hosted by Will Fairbrother “Integrating Genomic Data into the Electronic Health Record” (Center for Computational Molecular Biology (CCMB)) Dec 11 12:00pm Applied Mathematics Colloquium presents Lauren K. Williams, Harvard University 170 Hope Street Introduction to the asymmetric simple exclusion process (from a combinatorialist’s point of view) Lauren K. Williams Harvard, Department of Mathematics Abstract: The asymmetric simple exclusion process (ASEP) is a model of particles hopping on a one-dimensional lattice, subject to the condition that there is at most one particle per site. This model was introduced in 1970 by biologists (as a model for translation in protein synthesis) but has since been shown to display a rich mathematical structure. There are many variants of the model – e.g. the lattice could be a ring, or a line with open boundaries. One can also allow multiple species of particles with different “weights.” I will explain how one can give combinatorial formulas for the stationary distribution using various kinds of tableaux. I will also explain how the ASEP is related to interesting families of orthogonal polynomials, including Askey-Wilson polynomials, Koornwinder polynomials, and Macdonald polynomials. Based on joint work with Sylvie Corteel (Paris) and Olya Mandelshtam (Brown). Applied Mathematics Colloquium presents Lauren K. Williams, Harvard University (Division of Applied Math) Dec 6 4:00pm - 5:00pm The 2018 Paris C. Kanellakis Memorial Lecture: Robert E. Tarjan, Princeton University/Intertrust Technologies Watson Center for Information Technology (CIT) Algorithms: Theory meets Practice Theory has an important role to play in computing practice. The faster speeds and larger memory sizes of current computers vastly increase the size of the design space of possible solutions for even simple problems. A theoretical approach to algorithm design helps to systematically explore this space. Such an approach can produce algorithms that are correct and efficient as well as simple to program. I shall illustrate these points with one or two real-life examples. Robert E. Tarjan is the Distinguished University Professor of Computer Science at Princeton University and Chief Scientist of Intertrust Technologies. He received his B.S. from the California Institute of Technology in 1969 and his M. S. and Ph.D. from Stanford University in 1971 and 1972. He has held academic positions at Cornell, Berkeley, Stanford, and NYU, and industrial research positions at Bell Labs, NEC, HP, and Microsoft. Among other honors, he received the Nevanlina Prize in Informatics, given by the International Mathematical Union, in 1982, the A.C.M. Turing Award in 1986, and the A. C. M. Paris Kanellakis Award in Theory and Practice in 1999, the last together with Daniel Sleator for their invention of splay trees. He is a member of the National Academy of Sciences and the National Academy of Engineering, and a Fellow of the American Philosophical Society and the American Academy of Arts and Sciences. He has published over 250 papers, mostly in the areas of the design and analysis of data structures and graph and network algorithms. In 2018 he was named one of the “50 Most Influential Living Computer Scientists” by TheBestSchools.org. ******************************** This lecture series honors Paris Kanellakis, a distinguished computer scientist who was an esteemed and beloved member of the Brown Computer Science Department. Paris joined the Computer Science Department in 1981 and became a full professor in 1990. His research area was theoretical computer science, with emphasis on the principles of database systems, logic in computer science, the principles of distributed computing and combinatorial optimization. He died in an airplane crash on December 20,1995, along with his wife, Maria Teresa Otoya, and their two young children, Alexandra and Stephanos Kanellakis. A reception will follow. Host: Professor Philip Klein The 2018 Paris C. Kanellakis Memorial Lecture: Robert E. Tarjan, Princeton University/Intertrust Technologies Dec 6 12:00pm Applied Math Colloquium presents Lauren K. Williams, Harvard University 170 Hope Street Yakov Shlapentokh-Rothman Title: Abstract Lauren K. Williams, Harvard University Title Abstract Applied Math Colloquium presents Lauren K. Williams, Harvard University Dec 5 4:00pm - 5:00pm DSI Colloquia: Ellie Pavlick Watson Center for Information Technology (CIT) Title and Abstract TBD DSI Colloquia: Ellie Pavlick Nov 30 9:00am - 12:00pm COBRE CBC: QC and Exploratory Data Analysis Watson Center for Information Technology (CIT) RNA-seq QC and Exploratory Data Analysis Using Bioconductor Workshop The COBRE Computational Biology Core is running an updated variant of the Bioconductor workshops originally presented by Levi Waldron of the Bioconductor core team. We will present the material in two parts: Part 1: QC and Exploratory Data Analysis - November 30th, 2018 Part 2: Differential Expression Analysis - TBA (~February 2019) These workshops will feature an optional new aspect: the use of participant data. Attendees will, under certain conditions, be able to utilize their own data for the tutorial. Data that can be used in this capacity is RNA-seq data with one intervention that has two levels (treated v. untreated). Anyone without suitable data will be able to use sample data that will be provided the day of the workshop. If you wish to attempt to use your own data in the workshop, please contact [email protected] by no later than November 16th so we can verify that the data is suited for this purpose. This message should be in addition to your registration using the survey link below. This workshop will be held on Friday, November 30, 2018, in the CIT SWIG Board Room (9 AM - 12 PM). Please register here if you would like to participate (requires a Brown-affiliated account): https://goo.gl/forms/CkTFvECrMjzRpxG42 Please do not hesitate to contact us at [email protected] or through our website: https://brown.edu/cis/data-science/compbiocore/ Regards, Brown Computational Biology Core COBRE CBC: QC and Exploratory Data Analysis (Center for Computational Biology of Human Disease (COBRE)) Nov 29 12:00pm - 1:30pm Carney Institute Lunch Talk - Thomas Serre, PhD and David Borton, PhD Sharpe Refectory Robert J. & Nancy D. Carney Institute for Brain Science Carney Institute Lunch Talk Thomas Serre, PhD Director for the Center for Computation and Visualization, Associate Professor of Cognitive, Linguistic and Psychological Sciences -and- David Borton, PhD Assistant Professor of Engineering Brown University “Dealing with Brain Data” Thu, Nov 29 12noon - 1:30pm Chancellor’s Dining Room, Sharpe Refectory Please RSVP *seating is limited* Carney Institute Lunch Talk - Thomas Serre, PhD and David Borton, PhD Biology, Medicine, Public Health, Psychology & Cognitive Sciences Nov 28 4:00pm - 5:00pm DSI Colloquia: Patrick Steele Watson Center for Information Technology (CIT) Title and Abstract TBD DSI Colloquia: Patrick Steele Nov 28 12:00pm Applied Math Colloquium featuring Michael Jordan, University of California, Berkeley Barus and Holley Applied Math Colloquium Wednesday, November 28, 2018 12:00pm Room 190, Barus & Holley Michael Jordan, University of California, Berkeley Title Abstract Applied Math Colloquium featuring Michael Jordan, University of California, Berkeley Nov 22 All Day Thanksgiving Day Thanksgiving Day Holiday Thanksgiving Day (Human Resources) Nov 19 4:00pm - 5:00pm SPECIAL Statistics Seminar featuring Pratik Shah, PhD, MIT Media Lab 121 South Main Street Novel machine learning and pragmatic computational medicine approaches to improve health outcomes for patients. Abstract: In the first part of the talk, I describe machine learning algorithms and methods to identify disease characteristics such as physician labels, fluorescent biomarkers and histological dyes from simple white light images. In the second part, I share novel phase 2 and 3 clinical trials designed by unorthodox “self-learning” AI and machine learning systems to accelerate clinical development to bring new innovations and advances to patients safely. Our clinical trial designs achieves significant reduction in tumor sizes during oncology care, and offers personalized and precision dosing recommendations for individual patients. We conclude by outlining a strategic plan to conduct clinical trials with devices, algorithms and real world evidence in accordance with the 21st Century Cures Act. Bio : Dr. Pratik Shah is a Principal Research Scientist at The MIT Media Lab and leads the Health 0.0 research program. His research creates novel intersections between engineering, medical imaging, machine learning, and medicine to improve health outcomes for patients. Ongoing research areas: 1) artificial intelligence and machine learning methods for the detection of cancer biomarkers using standard photographs vs. expensive medical images; 2) unorthodox artificial intelligence algorithms to design optimal and faster clinical trials to reduce adverse effects on patients; and 3) point-of-care medical technologies for real world data and evidence generation to improve public health. Past acknowledgments include the American Society for Microbiology’s Raymond W. Sarber National Award, a Harvard Medical School and Massachusetts General Hospitals ECOR Fund for Medical Discovery postdoctoral fellowship, coverage by leading national and international news media outlets. Dr. Shah has been an invited discussion leader at Gordon Research Seminars; a speaker at Cold Spring Harbor Laboratories, Gordon Research Conferences, and IEEE bioengineering conferences; and a peer reviewer for leading scientific publications and funding agencies. Pratik has a BS, MS, and a PhD in biological sciences and completed fellowship training at Massachusetts General Hospital, The Broad Institute of MIT and Harvard, and Harvard Medical School. SPECIAL Statistics Seminar featuring Pratik Shah, PhD, MIT Media Lab (Biostatistics) Biology, Medicine, Public Health, Education, Teaching, Instruction, Graduate School, Postgraduate Education, Mathematics, Technology, Engineering, Research, Training, Professional Development Nov 19 12:00pm - 1:00pm Talk: Mike Ravella ’16, Pixar Animation Studios CIT Stochastic Cinema: The Intersection of Randomness and Design This talk will examine two case studies on the use of random numbers to not only influence, but enhance design in feature film production. The first will be a geometric application of probability from Incredibles 2, followed by a stochastic illumination strategy employed on Coco. Designing cities is implicitly a task of tremendous scale. But how can we keep design nimble as story and art direction are changing every day? In this part of the talk, we will start by looking at the artistic inspiration for Municiberg and New Urbem, and the design challenges involved in creating two distinct cities. Then we will see how this influenced the creation of the city generation tool, and learn about how probability can allow both rapid prototyping of large scale sets, as well as achieve a polished, final look. In the second half, we will move towards illumination. On Coco, there were many glowing creatures, called alebrije, added to the magical Land of the Dead. Similar to before, we will start by looking at some of the artistic exploration for what the alebrije would look like in our world. Then we will examine the social implications of what happens when we try to let a department that isn’t lighting control something on the screen that lights up. And finally we will see how a novel stochastic rendering technique was employed to keep everyone happy. This talk is designed to be enjoyable even with no previous knowledge (or interest) of probability or computer science. Host: Professor Barbara Meier Talk: Mike Ravella ’16, Pixar Animation Studios Nov 14 4:00pm - 5:00pm DSI Colloquia: DeDe Paul Watson Center for Information Technology (CIT) AN INSIDER’S VIEW OF A DATA SCIENCE RESEARCH LAB We in the Data Science and AI Research organization in AT&T Labs are fortunate to be involved the company’s Machine Learning and AI transformation - which greatly depends on Data Science expertise. I will provide a high-level view of the methodologies and applications associated with some of our active research areas. Then I will showcase a current project to demonstrate a data science workflow and the importance of ongoing professional development in the field. DSI Colloquia: DeDe Paul Nov 14 12:00pm - 1:00pm Succeeding in Graduate School (Sciences) CareerLab Wondering how to manage your time, choose your courses, build relationships with your advisers, or get involved with organizations on campus? Join CareerLAB for tips and strategies for succeeding in graduate school! This event will feature your peers–advanced graduate students–sharing what they have learned about how to make the most of your time here. Succeeding in Graduate School (Sciences) Careers, Recruiting, Internships, Graduate School, Postgraduate Education, Training, Professional Development Nov 13 6:00pm - 7:30pm Lyft Information Session CareerLab Lyft will be on campus to share more about their core and self-driving teams! We are actively recruiting for 2019 internships and full-time positions across Software Engineering, Hardware Engineering, Data Science, and more! Lyft Information Session Careers, Recruiting, Internships Nov 13 3:00pm - 4:30pm Self-Editing Techniques for Science Writers Sciences Library Tuesday, November 13, 2018, 3:00-4:30 PM, SciLi 520 Led by Dr. Theresa M. Desrochers, Assistant Professor of Neuroscience & Psychiatry and Human Behavior, this workshop will focus on the fundamentals of scholarly writing in the sciences. Workshop participants are expected to come prepared with their own writing and will spend time editing. Registration is required. Self-Editing Techniques for Science Writers Nov 9 1:00pm - 3:00pm Thesis Defense: Yeounoh Chung Watson Center for Information Technology (CIT) Quantifying Uncertainty in Data Exploration In the age of big data, uncertainty in data constantly grows with its volume, variety and velocity. Data is noisy, biased and error-prone. Compounding the problem of uncertain data is uncertainty in data analysis. A typical end-to-end data analysis pipeline involves cleaning and processing the data, summarizing different characteristics and running more complex machine learning algorithms to extract interesting patterns. The problem is that, all the steps are error-prone and imperfect. From the input data to the output results, uncertainty propagates and compounds. This thesis addresses such problems of uncertainty in data analysis. First, it is shown how uncertainty in a form of missing unknown data items can affects aggregate query results, which are very common in exploratory data analysis. It is challenging to make sure that we have collected all the important data items to derive correct data analysis, especially when we deal with real-world big data; there is always a chance that some items of unknown impacts are missing from the collected data set. To this end, sound techniques to derive aggregate queries with the \emph (the data set may or may not be complete) are proposed. Next, uncertainty in the form of data errors is examined. It is almost guaranteed that any real-world data sets contain some forms of data error. This is an important source of uncertainty in data analysis because those errors would almost surely corrupt the final analysis results. Unfortunately, there has not been much work to measure the quality of data in terms of the number of remaining data errors in the data set. The data cleaning best practices basically employ a number of (orthogonal) data cleaning techniques, algorithms or human/crowd workers in a hope that the increased cleaning efforts would result in a perfectly clean data set. To guide such cleaning efforts, techniques to estimate the number of undetected remaining errors in a data set are proposed. Lastly, a couple of uncertainty problems related to machine learning (ML) model quality are addressed. ML is one of the most popular tools for learning and making predictions on data. For its use, ensuring good ML model quality leads to more accurate and reliable data analysis results. The most common practice for model quality control is to consider various test performance metrics on separate validation data sets; however, the problem is that the overall performance metrics can fail to reflect the performance on smaller subsets of the data. At the same time, evaluating the model on all possible subsets of the data is prohibitively expensive, which is one of the key challenges in solving this uncertainty problem. Furthermore, missing unknown data items can also degrade the quality of the model. The challenge is that most ML/inference models can perform badly on unseen instances, if similar cases are not learned during training. Host: Professor Tim Kraska Thesis Defense: Yeounoh Chung Nov 8 6:30pm Master’s Student Game Night Watson Institute for International and Public Affairs Master’s Student Game Night Graduate School, Postgraduate Education Nov 8 6:00pm An ICERM Public Lecture: Mathematics: Rhyme and Reason 121 South Main Street A little more than three years ago, while attending the Conference for African American Researchers in the Mathematical Sciences at ICERM, I spontaneously announced to ICERM Associate Director Ulrica Wilson that I thought I would write a book about the heart of mathematics. Then I went ahead and did it. What was I thinking?! Publishing Mathematics: Rhyme and Reason is akin to undressing publicly. So, what ends up being exposed? Well, among other things, I place in plain view relationships with people in my mathematical upbringing, some of whom popped into my life for better and, at least once, for worse. One will also see my life-long attachment to the simple truths of mathematics. The book is a message to the kid I was, with the assumption that such kids still exist. I present a large collection of theorems and call them nursery rhymes in the book, though I didn’t stumble across a few of them until I was well beyond nursery-rhyme age. I also write about whether or not I have ever managed to scratch the surface of mathematics. I plan to spend the allotted time discussing these matters and more. Come one, come all, we’re going to have a ball. This is a pre-conference event for the Blackwell-Tapia Conference and is open to the public. About the Speaker After receiving a BA degree in Mathematics and Economics from Yale College in 1970, Dr. Mel Currie worked in his hometown Pittsburgh as an economic analyst with Gulf Oil Corporation. He then spent three years in Germany, where he taught algebra in the Düsseldorf public school system. After returning from Germany, he earned MA and PhD degrees in mathematics at the University of Pittsburgh. Seven years in academia followed graduate school. Dr. Currie joined the National Security Agency in 1990 and in 1994 became chief of the Crypto-mathematical Applications Branch. He moved to the Cryptography Office in 1996, where he was Chief of the Cryptographic Research and Design Division, the Codemakers. His position at retirement was Research Advocate reporting directly to the Director of Research, NSA. He is the recipient of many awards. In particular, he was the inaugural recipient of NSA’s Crypto-Mathematics Institute’s Leadership Award. An ICERM Public Lecture: Mathematics: Rhyme and Reason Mathematics, Technology, Engineering Nov 7 5:00pm Google Design Workshop Barus and Holley Google’s design thinking exercise helps students to practically apply their code and has proven to be highly beneficial for those that are currently interviewing for product manager roles across the industry. Google Design Workshop Careers, Recruiting, Internships Nov 7 4:00pm From Gregor Mendel to Eric Davidson: Models in experimental biology, their epistemologies and basic biological principles. Watson Center for Information Technology (CIT) Dr. Ute Deichmann Director, Jacques Loeb Centre for the History and Philosophy of the Life Sciences Ben-Gurion University of the Negev From Gregor Mendel to Eric Davidson: Models in experimental biology, their epistemologies and basic biological principles. Models have been widespread in biology since its emergence as a modern experimental science in the 19th century. Typical model types include animal models, chemical models and mathematical models. Quantitative models in biology differed strongly among researchers in various fields regarding function and explanatory power. This talk presents the properties and epistemological basis of pertinent mathematical models in developmental biology and heredity from the 19th to the 21st centuries. (Models in physiology, ecology, population genetics and origin of life and artificial life research are not included.) I show that the models differ not only in their epistemologies but also in how they explicitly or implicitly take into account basic biological principles, in particular those of biological specificity (which was in part replaced by genetic information) and genetic causality. I argue that models that disregarded these principles did not impact the direction of biological research in a lasting way and that successful models were based on inductive as well as hypothetico-deductive methodology; they were not mathematical descriptions or simulations of biological phenomena. Moreover, I argue that though the recent availability of big data technologies tremendously facilitates systems approaches and pattern recognition, inductive and hypothetico-deductive experimental methodologies have remained fundamentally important as long as causal-mechanistic explanations of complex systems are pursued. Hosted by Sorin Istrail, in honor of the late Dr. Eric Davidson From Gregor Mendel to Eric Davidson: Models in experimental biology, their epistemologies and basic biological principles. (Center for Computational Molecular Biology (CCMB)) Nov 6 1:00pm - 2:00pm Talk: Prabhat, NERSC, Berkeley Lab CIT Deep Learning for Science In recent years, Deep Learning has revolutionized the fields of computer vision, speech recognition and control systems. Can Deep Learning have a positive impact on domain sciences? The talk will review NERSC’s current and future strategy in Deep Learning. We will review a range of use cases spanning Climate, Cosmology, Astronomy, High-Energy Physics, Neuroscience and Genomics. We will briefly touch upon efforts in scaling Deep Learning on petascale and exascale platforms in DOE. We will conclude with a list of open challenges and speculations about the role of AI in scientific discovery in the future. Prabhat leads the Data and Analytics Services team at NERSC. His current research interests are in machine learning, statistics and large scale data analytics. He has broad interests in data management, visualization and HPC. Prabhat received an ScM in Computer Science from Brown University (2001) and a B.Tech in Computer Science and Engineering from IIT-Delhi (1999). He is currently pursuing a PhD in the Earth and Planetary Sciences Department at U.C. Berkeley. Host: Professor David Laidlaw Talk: Prabhat, NERSC, Berkeley Lab Nov 5 4:00pm - 5:00pm Brown Statistics Seminar featuring José Zubizarreta, PhD, Harvard University 121 South Main Street José R. Zubizaretta, PHD Associate Professor, Department of Health Care Policy, Harvard Medical School Faculty Affiliate, Department of Statistics , Faculty of Arts and Sciences Harvard University “Building Representative Matched Samples with Multi-valued Treatments in Large Observational Studies” In observational studies of causal effects, matching methods are widely used to approximate the ideal study that would be conducted under controlled experimentation. In this talk, I will discuss new matching methods that use tools from modern optimization to overcome five limitations of standard matching approaches. In particular, these new matching methods (i) directly obtain flexible forms of covariate balance, as specified before matching by the investigator; (ii) produce self-weighting matched samples that are representative of target populations by design; and (iii) handle multiple treatment doses without resorting to a generalization of the propensity score. (iv) These methods can handle large data sets quickly. (v) Unlike standard matching approaches, with these new matching methods, usual estimators are root-n consistent under usual conditions. I will illustrate the performance of these methods in a case study about the impact of a natural disaster on educational opportunity. Brown Statistics Seminar featuring José Zubizarreta, PhD, Harvard University (Biostatistics) Biology, Medicine, Public Health, Education, Teaching, Instruction, Graduate School, Postgraduate Education, Mathematics, Technology, Engineering, Research, Training, Professional Development Nov 2 3:00pm - 5:00pm Thesis Defense: Alexander Galakatos Watson Center for Information Technology (CIT) Accelerating Interactive Data Exploration The widespread popularity of visual data exploration tools has empowered domain experts in a broad range of fields to make data-driven decisions. However, a key requirement of these tools is the ability to provide query results at “human speed,” even over large datasets. To meet these strict requirements, we propose a complete redesign of the interactive data exploration stack. Instead of simply replacing or extending existing systems, however, we propose an Interactive Data Exploration Accelerator (IDEA) that connects to existing data management infrastructures in order to speed up query processing for visual data exploration tools. In this redesigned interactive data exploration stack, where an IDEA sits between a visual data exploration tool and a backend data source, several interesting opportunities emerge to improve interactivity for end users. In this context, we first propose a novel approximate query processing formulation that better models the conversational interaction paradigm promoted by visual data exploration tools. Since the time dimension is often a critical component of many datasets, we then present a detailed survey of existing backend data sources specifically designed for time-dependent data in the context of interactive data exploration. Finally, based on the results from our study, we propose a new approximate index structure for an interactive data exploration stack that leverages the trends that exist in the underlying data to improve interactivity while significantly reducing the storage footprint. Host: Professor Tim Kraska Thesis Defense: Alexander Galakatos Nov 2 12:00pm - 1:00pm Sysread Talk: Bernd Fischer, Stellenbosch University Watson Center for Information Technology (CIT) Seeing Things in the Clouds: Browsing Semi-Structured Data with Tag Clouds over Concept Lattices Search is one of the most common operations on the internet, and one of the cornerstones of information retrieval. However, users must know exactly what they want and to formulate explicit queries to search for it. In many applications, this is difficult because the underlying data archives are semi-structured, i.e., consist of a mixture of formatted (e.g., author or date) and free-text (e.g., synopsis or description) fields, and the information remains implicit. Software development archives such as revision control and issue tracking systems are one instance of this general problem. Users are interested in high-level questions (e.g., “How have the active developers changed over time?”, “Which topics has this developer been working on?”, or “Which methods are often changed together?”) but the archives do not directly provide the answers. Dedicated mining tools can automate the search for specific aspects, but remain inflexible. We instead propose an interactive browsing approach to analyze such semi-structured data archives. The main novelty of this approach is the combination of an intuitive tag cloud interface with an underlying concept lattice that provides a formal structure for navigation. This lets users serendipitously explore the data without predefined goals and along different navigation paths, and thereby allows them to discover unexpected information. We implemented our approach in the ConceptCloud browser. It uses tag clouds to provide a unified view of the selected items, but the browser interface also supports concurrent navigation in multiple interlinked tag clouds that can each be customized individually, which allows multifaceted archive explorations. We sketch the mathematical foundations and show how we used ConceptCloud in different domains, including software archives, citation data, and wine reviews. Bernd Fischer is a professor in the Division of Computer Science at Stellenbosch University (South Africa) and the current Head of Division. His research area is automated software engineering, in particular logic-based (in the broadest sense) techniques. He has worked on a wide range of topics, such as specification-based component reuse, program synthesis from high-level models, or software model checking. Fischer studied Computer Science at the TU Braunschweig (Germany) but obtained his PhD from the University of Passau (Germany) in 2001. From 1998 to 2006, he was a Research Scientist with USRA/RIACS at the NASA Ames Research Center (USA). From 2006 to 2013, he held a position as Senior Lecturer at the University of Southampton (UK), and in 2013, he moved to Stellenbosch University (South Africa), in an attempt to improve the access to both sunshine and wine after seven years in England. Hosts: Professor Shriram Krishnamurthi, Sysread Sysread Talk: Bernd Fischer, Stellenbosch University Nov 1 12:00pm - 1:00pm Talk: Thomas Ryden, MassRobotics Watson Center for Information Technology (CIT) HCRI Design Considerations For Robotics Systems Human-Robot interaction design is multidisciplinary effort aimed at understanding and improving the interactions between humans and robots. HRI is no more important than in teleoperated robots, where effective control is critical to the proper experience of these types of robots. But often the human factors elements are given short shrift, either addressed towards the end of the design, or left to just the engineers. During this talk we will look at some of the different elements of HRI – human perception of robots, human factors and human machine interfaces. We will look at how the design requirements of the PackBot impacted the control metaphors and we will examine the design path for the VGo Telepresence Robot. Thomas Ryden is the Executive Director of MassRobotics. MassRobotics is a non-profit organization whose mission is to support the robotics community and help grow the next generation of robotics and connected device companies. Prior to joining MassRobotics Mr. Ryden was the founder and CEO/COO of VGo Communications, Inc. While at VGo Mr. Ryden oversaw the development and launch of the VGo telepresence robot. The VGo is used by hospitals, eldercare facilities, schools and other organizations to help people stay better connected, allowing users to essentially be in two places at once. Previously, Mr. Ryden was Director of Sales & Marketing at iRobot Corporation. Under his leadership iRobot secured over $300M in contracts and revenue from its government and industrial products increased from $2M to over $80M annually. In addition Mr. Ryden held roles in program management, overseeing the development of some of iRobot’s most successful products. Mr. Ryden is the co-chairman of the robotics cluster of the Massachusetts Technology Leadership Council and serves on the Mechatronics & Robotics Engineering (MRE) Education Advisory Board, the Tufts University Computer Science Advisory Board, the WPI Robotics Engineering Advisory Board and the Robotics Technical Advisory Panel for ASME. He also is an advisor to a number of robotics start-ups. Mr. Ryden has a B.S. in Electrical Engineering from the University of Vermont and an MBA from Bentley University. Host: Professor Stefanie Tellex/HCRI Talk: Thomas Ryden, MassRobotics Oct 31 4:00pm - 5:00pm DSI Colloquia: Thomas Serre Watson Center for Information Technology (CIT) What are the computations underlying primate versus machine vision? Primates excel at object recognition: For decades, the speed and accuracy of their visual system have remained unmatched by computer algorithms. But recent advances in Deep Convolutional Networks (DCNs) have led to vision systems that are starting to rival human decisions. A growing body of work also suggests that this recent surge in accuracy is accompanied by a concomitant improvement in our ability to account for neural data in higher areas of the primate visual cortex. Overall, DCNs have become de facto computational models of visual recognition. In this talk, I will review recent work by our group which brings into relief limitations of modern DCNs as computational models of primate vision. I will show that visual features learned by DCNs from large-scale object recognition databases differ markedly from those used by human observers during visual recognition. I will further demonstrate that DCNs are limited in their ability to solve seemingly simple visual reasoning problems involving incremental grouping, similarity and spatial relation judgments suggesting the need for additional neural computations beyond those implemented in current architectures. I will show how neuroscience principles may help guide the future design for more robust computer vision architectures. Dr. Serre is Associate Professor in Cognitive Linguistic & Psychological Sciences at Brown University. He received a Ph.D. in Neuroscience from MIT in 2006 and an MSc in EECS from Télécom Bretagne (France) in 2000. Dr Serre is Faculty Director of the Center for Computation and Visualization and the Associate Director of Carney’s behavioral core and the “SmartPlayroom”. Dr Serre has served as an area chair for machine learning and computer vision conferences including CVPR and NIPS. He is currently serving as a domain expert for IARPA’s Machine Intelligence from Cortical Networks (MICrONS) program and as scientific advisor for Vium, Inc. He is the recipient of an NSF early Career award as well as DARPA’s Young Faculty Award and Director’s Award. His research seeks to understand the neural computations supporting visual perception and has been featured in the BBC series “Visions from the Future” and appeared in several news articles (The Economist, New Scientist, Scientific American, IEEE Computing in Science and Technology, Technology Review and Slashdot). DSI Colloquia: Thomas Serre Education, Teaching, Instruction, Graduate School, Postgraduate Education, Mathematics, Technology, Engineering Oct 31 3:00pm English Language Workshop: Academic Writing Series Sciences Library This series focuses on skills needed for clear writing in the U.S. academic context. This semester’s workshops will focus on incorporating sources, summarizing, and synthesizing in English. Register here. English Language Workshop: Academic Writing Series Oct 30 4:00pm Seeing Myself in Science Discussion with President Christina Paxson Sciences Library Join us for the first Seeing Myself in Science lecture this year with President Christina Paxson in an exchange about her career as an economist and perspectives on diversity and inclusion in the sciences. RSVP here. Seeing Myself in Science Discussion with President Christina Paxson Physical & Earth Sciences Oct 26 2:00pm - 4:00pm Healthcare Needs Innovation. Yours! 116 Chestnut St Providence, RI 02903 Presented by the New England Medical Innovation Center (NEMIC) and Advance-CTR The New England Medical Innovation Center – NEMIC was created to help open channels of innovation within the community. In this free, 2-hour workshop, we will talk about the importance of innovation to the industry as a whole, different technologies that are driving innovation, human centered design, and cover the components that make innovation fundable from an investors perspective. Workshop Agenda: Types of Innovation: Digital Health, Device Development, and Service Improvement Industry Trends & Drivers Elements of Success and Potential Challenges for Innovators About NEMIC & Upcoming Programs Coffee and refreshments provided. Event is free but registration is required. Register using the link below. Register: https://www.eventbrite.com/e/healthcare-needs-innovation-yours-tickets-50651946335 Healthcare Needs Innovation. Yours! (Advance-CTR) Advising, Mentorship, Biology, Medicine, Public Health, Careers, Recruiting, Internships, Entrepreneurship, Mathematics, Technology, Engineering, Research, Training, Professional Development Oct 24 4:00pm Evolutionary Dynamics of Gene Regulation Watson Center for Information Technology (CIT) Dr. Doug Erwin Curator of Paleozoic Invertebrates Smithsonian Institution, National Museum of Natural History Evolutionary Dynamics of Gene Regulation The evolution of gene regulation can be considered from the perspective of a developmental biologist, interested in how regulatory mechanisms and patterns change, and how these changes facilitate evolution of the phenotype. They can also be considered from the standpoint of the evolutionary biologist, interested in the developmental underpinnings of evolutionary patterns. I will outline the nature of changes in gene regulation at three different levels: 1) the assembly of metazoan regulatory mechanisms during the early history of animals; 2) changes associated with macroevolutionary events such as evolutionary innovations; and 3) changes in gene regulatory networks associated with microevolutionary events such as speciation and adaptive radiations. Hosted by Sorin Istrail, in honor of the late Dr. Eric Davidson Evolutionary Dynamics of Gene Regulation (Center for Computational Molecular Biology (CCMB)) Oct 22 4:00pm - 5:00pm Brown Statistics Seminar featuring Kristin Linn, PhD, University of Pennsylvania 121 South Main Kristin Linn, PhD Assistant Professor Department of Biostatistics University of Pennsylvania “Confounding in Imaging-based Predictive Modeling” The multivariate pattern analysis (MVPA) of neuroimaging data typically consists of one or more statistical learning models applied within a broader image analysis pipeline. The goal of MVPA is often to learn about patterns of variation encoded in magnetic resonance images (MRI) of the brain that are associated with brain disease incidence, progression, and response to therapy. Every model choice that is made during image processing and analysis can have implications with respect to the results of neuroimaging studies. Here, attention is given to two important steps within the MVPA framework: 1) the standardization of features prior to training a supervised learning model, and 2) the training of learning models in the presence of confounding. Specific examples focus on the use of the support vector machine, as it is a common model choice for MVPA, but the general concepts apply to a large set of models employed in the field. We propose novel methods that lead to improved classifier performance and interpretability, and we illustrate the methods on real neuroimaging data from a study of Alzheimer’s disease. Brown Statistics Seminar featuring Kristin Linn, PhD, University of Pennsylvania (Biostatistics) Biology, Medicine, Public Health, Education, Teaching, Instruction, Graduate School, Postgraduate Education, Mathematics, Technology, Engineering, Research, Training, Professional Development Oct 18 2:30pm - 6:30pm SciComm Workshop: Communicating Science Effectively Science Center/Sciences Library The Importance of Message – What is your message? Why does it matter? This workshop will provide strategies and approaches that will help you to communicate your scientific work effectively to diverse audiences. Facilitated by Jory Weintraub, Ph.D., Science Communication Director, Duke Initiative for Science & Society, Duke University. This will be a “hands-on” workshop, so come prepared to practice your skills with your colleagues! There will be 4 sessions: SciComm 101, Delivering Better Presentions, Communication ‘Controversial’ Science and Science Obfuscation and Spin. Please complete this registration form no later than October 16 at 5:00 PM. Register at Please complete this registration form no later than October 16 at 5:00 PM. Register at https://goo.gl/forms/1VLxQWKbPnFg1y1b2 Refreshments provided. SciComm Workshop: Communicating Science Effectively (Science Center) Careers, Recruiting, Internships, Education, Teaching, Instruction, Graduate School, Postgraduate Education, Mathematics, Technology, Engineering, Research, Training, Professional Development Oct 17 4:00pm The Hitchhiker’s Guide to Epistasis: the Galactic View Watson Center for Information Technology (CIT) Dr. Robert Heckendorn Dept. of Computer Science University of Idaho The Hitchhiker’s Guide to Epistasis: the Galactic View The world would be simple if it wasn’t for epistasis. Epistasis is the wrench in works of evaluating fitness of genotype. Without it the Wrightian fitness landscape would be boringly single peaked and the task of evolution would be relatively simple. Evolutionary Computation is the use of evolution based algorithms for “solving” optimization problems. For us, Evolutionary Computation is conscious evolution with intent and problem structure, as measured by epistasis, is critical to understanding how to better optimize a function. Linkages we find in mechanics of real world problems are like the linkages we see in biological problems which reveal the chemistry and physics of life. We will look at a broader view of epistasis from those trying to solve optimization problems and how that might be merged with the biological prospective. We will discuss the representation of fitness space as epistasis space and the implications and limitations for computability. We will find, from a theory standpoint, there is some good news and some bad news and some wild guesses. So I would like to say “in large friendly letters DON’T PANIC. Hosted by Dan Weinreich The Hitchhiker’s Guide to Epistasis: the Galactic View (Center for Computational Molecular Biology (CCMB)) Oct 11 12:00pm - 1:00pm Advance-CTR Seminar Series Rhode Island Quality Institute This month’s Advance-CTR Seminar Series features two presentations on research using big data. The presenters are: Shira Dunsiger, PhD, and Beth Bock, PhD: “Exploring Second-to-Second Exercise Intensity and Disease Risk Outcomes;” and Thomas Serre, PhD: “Automating Pathology with Deep Learning” Can’t make it in person? Register to watch the Seminar remotely. Find more directions and parking directions online at AdvanceCTR.org. Advance-CTR Seminar Series (Advance-CTR) Biology, Medicine, Public Health, Research Oct 10 4:00pm Statistical and Geometric Methods for the Analysis of Sequence Count Data Watson Center for Information Technology (CIT) Justin Silverman Computational Biology & Bioinformatics Duke University Statistical and Geometric Methods for the Analysis of Sequence Count Data Sequence counting via high-throughput DNA sequencing underlies many studies including 16s rRNA sequencing as well as single-cell or bulk RNA sequencing. However, due to the the measurement process, sequence count data contains information regarding only the relative abundances of sequences. Such relative data, often termed compositional, is known to cause problems in many statistical analyses. Moreover other forms of technical variation and bias complicate analysis of sequence count data. In this talk I will introduce statistical and geometric tools to address these challenges. In particular, by combining these methods with experimental design, I will demonstrate how biological and technical variation in longitudinal studies can be partitioned. Additionally, I will discuss new models that both enable quantification of the sensitivity of real data to compositional effects while also allowing the reconstruction of differential expression and correlation analysis by model augmentation. Hosted by Lorin Crawford Statistical and Geometric Methods for the Analysis of Sequence Count Data (Center for Computational Molecular Biology (CCMB)) Oct 8 All Day Indigenous Peoples Day Indigenous Peoples Day Holiday Indigenous Peoples Day University Services & Operations Oct 3 4:00pm - 5:00pm DSI Colloquium: Joseph Cappelleri Watson Center for Information Technology (CIT) More information to be posted. DSI Colloquium: Joseph Cappelleri Academic Calendar, University Dates & Events, Biology, Medicine, Public Health, Education, Teaching, Instruction, Graduate School, Postgraduate Education, Mathematics, Technology, Engineering, Research Oct 1 4:00pm - 5:00pm Brown Statistics Seminar featuring Nicolo Fusi, PhD, Microsoft Research, Cambridge, MA 121 South Main Street Nicolo Fusi, PhD Head of Automated Machine Learning Research Microsoft Research Cambridge, MA “From Gene Editing to Automated Machine Learning: Using AI to Tune Complex Systems” Complex systems often need careful tuning in order to obtain optimal performance and robustness. For example, while the CRISPR/Cas9 system provides state-of-the art genome editing capabilities, several facets of this system are under investigation for further characterization and optimization. One in particular is the choice of guide RNA that directs Cas9 to target DNA–given that one would like to target the protein-coding region of a gene, hundreds of guides satisfy the constraints of the CRISPR/Cas9 Protospacer Adjacent Motif sequence. However, only some of these guides efficiently target DNA to generate gene knockouts (i.e. have high on-target efficiency) and some of these might have unintended (i.e. off-target) effects somewhere else in the genome. In this talk, I present two state-of-the-art machine learning approaches to predict both on-target efficiency and the presence of off-target effects (both accessible at http://crispr.ml). I then discuss how machine learning pipelines can themselves be optimized using machine learning. Finally, I show that our approach to tune machine learning pipelines can be more generally used to tune parameters of any system (not just machine learning ones) by exploiting information gathered from multiple related experiments. Brown Statistics Seminar featuring Nicolo Fusi, PhD, Microsoft Research, Cambridge, MA (Biostatistics) Biology, Medicine, Public Health, Education, Teaching, Instruction, Graduate School, Postgraduate Education, Mathematics, Technology, Engineering, Research, Training, Professional Development Sep 26 8:00am - 4:00pm Advance-CTR Open House 233 Richmond Street Come out for food, fun, and free headshots at our Open House on Wednesday, September 26. The Advance-CTR team welcomes investigators and research staff to this all-day event (drop by any time) at our headquarters in Providence, RI. Activities include: Complimentary, professional headshots Exclusive sign-up for REDCap workshops “Ask a Biostatistician:” Informal consults with our experts about your proposal ideas or research questions Ask us anything: Pilot Projects application process, Mentored Research Awards, and Research Services Prizes, games, and more! Wednesday, September 26 from 8 a.m. - 4 p.m. at 233 Richmond Street, Suite 200, Providence, RI (across from the Alpert Medical School). Advance-CTR Open House (Advance-CTR) Biology, Medicine, Public Health, Research, Training, Professional Development Sep 21 4:00pm - 5:00pm DSI Colloquium: Professor Michael Littman Watson Center for Information Technology (CIT) MICHAEL LITTMAN PROFESSOR OF COMPUTER SCIENCE, BROWN UNIVERSITY ASSESSING AND IMPROVING GENERALIZATION IN DEEP REINFORCEMENT LEARNING Deep reinforcement-learning approaches have been shown to produce a remarkable performance on a range of challenging control tasks. Observations of the resulting behavior give the impression that agents construct rich task representations that support insightful action decisions. Looking closely at the generalization capacity of these deep Q-networks, however, we find that the learned value computations often reduce to brittle memorization and that the network does not know how to handle even small non-adversarial modifications to the states it encounters during execution. We examine training methods that improve generalization capability. Our results provide strong evidence that not all deep networks learn robust behaviors, and that careful consideration must be made to achieve results to the contrary. Coffee and pastry to be served. DSI Colloquium: Professor Michael Littman Academic Calendar, University Dates & Events, Education, Teaching, Instruction, Graduate School, Postgraduate Education, Mathematics, Technology, Engineering, Research View full calendar > Events Fair February Data Science Research Seminar Series Faculty for Faculty Research Talks Decoding Pandemic Data: A Series of Interactive Seminars Past Events Donate to DSI Inquire about our Master's Program Sign Up for Our Newsletter Data Science Initiative Data Science Initiative Brown University Box 1891 164 Angell Street 3rd Floor Providence, RI 02912-1891 Phone: 401-863-6959 Email [email protected] Twitter Twitter Facebook Facebook Brown University Giving to Brown Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA 401-863-1000 Contact Us Maps Directions Career Opportunities Campus Safety Accessibility All Social Media © 2022 Brown University | Back to top