Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Housing Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Incoming Students Current Students Guide to Living Explore Residences Dates Other Services About First-Year Housing First-Year Application First-Year Check-In 3-2 Combined Plan Housing New Transfer and Exchange Housing Visiting Student Housing Summer Housing Options for Students Spring Check-Out Room Selection How It Works Eligibility Special Populations Registration Point Values, Lottery Numbers & Selection Appointments Selection Selecting as a Group Online Selection Step-by-Step If You Need Help Hartley Hospitality Desk Resident Advisers On Duty Columbia Public Safety Forms Residence Halls Directory with Map First-Year Area Carman Hall Furnald Hall Hartley Hall John Jay Hall Wallach Hall Upperclass Area 47 Claremont Avenue 600 West 113 Street Broadway Hall Carlton Arms East Campus Harmony Hall Hogan Hall McBain Hall Residential Brownstones River Hall Ruggles Hall Schapiro Hall SIC Residences Watt Hall Wien Hall Woodbridge Hall Fraternities and Sororities FSL Brownstones Residence Hall Amenities Bike Storage Locations Computer Labs & Print Stations Fitness Center Locations Residence Hall Lounges Rate Structure Fire Safety Resident Advisers On Duty Hartley Hospitality Desk Conference Housing Conference Housing Request Form Commencement Housing Our Team About Columbia Housing Staff Directory Resources News & Announcements Video Library Sustainability Our Sustainability Initiatives Green Sale Sustainable Columbia Website Other Campus Housing Columbia Housing You are here: Home Incoming Students First-Year Housing First-Year Application First-Year Application Accepted students will be notified by Columbia Housing when to begin their application. Login with Your PID If you do not yet have a UNI, you need to use your Personal Identification (PID) number. Click "Login" in the top left-hand corner of the Portal homepage. Select "Login with PID" from the drop-down menu. Enter your PID and password. Your PID begins with C00 Your password is your date of birth in the format MMDDYYYY (i.e., 04242004) Tips for the First-Year Housing Application Access the application from the Columbia Housing Portal. All application steps through the Statement of Intent must be completed by May 16 at 11:59 p.m. EST. Review the building options and select your hall preferences carefully. Please note that a preference for single sex accommodations will take precedence over building preference. Furnald Hall is the only residence hall that offers single-sex floors (on the second floor.) Hartley, Wallach and John Jay do not have single-sex floors. View the first-year building options. Consider requesting access to bag drop on Saturday, August 27 (domestic students only). Learn more about bag drop on the Check-In page. Understand your roommate selection options If you have a specific roommate in mind, you can request to be roomed together. Requests must be mutual. Roommate requests are made by forming a group of two people (yourself + one other). Designate one person as group leader. The leader should search for the other roommate by UNI or by name and click the option to "ADD TO GROUP." A unique group name will be created for you when you invite someone to your group. Your desired roommate MUST have a housing application Your desired roommate must revisit the Roommate Request section, click "Join/Accept a Roommate Request" The group leader needs to log back in and accept the request to join the group in the Roommate Request section The group leader should check that the group is verified. This should happen automatically after the 2nd member joins the group. If you don't have a specific roommate in mind, you can use the roommate matching tools to identify potential matches. The application can make a roommate recommendations based on how you answered the personal preferences questions, or you can also search for a roommate by their profile answers. Please note: Roommate matching will take priority over residence hall preference requests. Roommate requests are not guaranteed. Complete the Statement of Intent step to confirm your application. The application 'Status' will read 'Not Complete' until the Occupancy Agreement is signed, which will occur after you have received your room assignment. Housing notifications will be sent via email in late June/early July. You will be instructed to log in and sign the Occupancy Agreement online, thus completing the application. At this point, your login will be your Columbia University Network ID (UNI) and password. Students who will not be 18 years old by August 1, 2022 will have to submit a copy of the Occupancy Agreement signed by a parent or guardian. If you indicate a request to commute, this request must be approved by the Office of Residential Life. Please proceed to the Admissions website to access the application. What Happens Next? Room assignments will be emailed to students by the end of June. Prepare for Check-In. International student Check-In is on August 27 and general Check-In is on August 28. Learn more. Columbia Housing Portal Submit a Service Request Housing Web Forms Contact Us: 212-854-2946 (Monday - Friday 9:00 - 5:00) 212-854-2779 (After hours and weekends) [email protected] Questions? Need Help? Contact the Hartley Hospitality Desk at 212-854-2779. Phone Housing Main Office: 212-854-2946 (Monday - Friday, 9:00AM - 5:00PM) Hospitality Desk: 212-854-2779 (Available 24x7) Contact Us [email protected] Follow Us Facebook Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close