HOME Make a Gift Clemson Home Students Faculty/Staff Alumni Partners A-Z Index Calendar Campus Maps CU Safety Phonebook Webcams Make a Gift Toggle navigation ABOUT CSL&E ACCEPTED STUDENTS Welcome Week Orientation Orientation Ambassadors CURRENT STUDENTS Leadership and Service Student Organizations Student Involvement FAMILY PROGRAMS FACULTY & STAFF COMMUNITY MEMBERS Helping you Books Online Resources HELPING YOU Going to college is a huge transition, not just for your student, but for you too! The world of higher education is changing every day, so whether this is your first student or you have put many students through college, things are ever-changing. The page will provide you with many useful tools, resources and questions that we believe will help make for a seamless transition. New Student Family Handbook The Family Handbook features articles, programming and interactive content tailored to new students and their families. The handbook provides interactive content including web links, email links, image slideshows, video, animation and more! Click here take a look at the 2021-22 Clemson Family Handbook. Clemson Planning Calendar for Families This calendar, Welcome to Clemson, is available each year in the summer to new Clemson families at the orientation sessions. There is valuable information included about Clemson academic deadlines, as well as tips and CU Facts. Click here to view the 2020-21 calendar. The printed calendar will be distributed to all families of new students during new student move-in, September 11-14, 2020. After campus re-opens, the calendar will also be available to pick up (for free) from the Center for Student Leadership and Engagement, centrally located on campus in 700 Edgar A. Brown University Union. Understanding FERPA FERPA is an acronym for the Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act (20 U.S.C. 1232g, 34 CFR 99). Congress enacted FERPA, also referred to as the "Buckley Amendment," in 1974. FERPA mandates that schools, including colleges and universities, maintain students' records in a certain way. Students must be allowed to inspect and review their education records and request the amendment of records that are inaccurate or misleading. Schools are also restricted from disclosing student records except in limited circumstances which will be described later in this tutorial. CU Safe Alerts CU Safe Alerts will inform your student of emergencies or disruptions to campus services, such as class cancellations. CU Safe Alerts are sent to all @clemson.edu email addresses. They also can be sent as text messages to their cell phone. You can also find CU Safe alerts on Twitter @CUSafety. Becoming an Authorized User to Pay the Bill Students can add a parent as an Authorized User via TouchNet. Students can click on the "Authorized users" tab via TouchNet, enter their parent's email address, and an email with login instructions will then be sent to the parent. Authorized users can view the bill, make a tuition payment, and signup for a payment plan. Authorized Users cannot enroll for eRefund. Authorized users have a unique login to iROAR. Financial Literacy The Department of Student Financial Aid provides many helpful resources on financial literacy on their web page. Some of the topic areas you will see include, personal budgets, saving, debt management, credit management, credit cards, default prevention and loan repayment options. Our goal is to help you gain the necessary knowledge to make sound financial decisions and to secure a successful financial future. A Guide for Families: Talking with College Students About Alcohol and Other Drugs The Office of Healthy Campus has created a great tool to help families of our students understand the Clemson University policies around Alcohol and Other Drugs. This guide will also help you understand the role that alcohol and other drugs are taking on college campuses nationally, and provide any resources that may be helpful in having these conversations with your students. Clemson Student Health 101 Clemson Student Health 101 is a publication sent to your student via email once a month with a variety of topics varying from eating habits, mental health, traveling tips, grocery store hacks, alcohol, how to handle a roommate, college recipes on a dime and much much more. Tigers Together- Suicide Prevention Awareness Program Tigers Together is a suicide prevention program that works to provide information and resources, reduce stigma, and promote a community of caring. Tigers Together is funded through the Garrett Lee Smith Memorial Campus Suicide Prevention grant, which is administered by the Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration (SAMHSA). CONTACT DIVISION OF STUDENT AFFAIRS 202 Sikes Hall, Clemson, SC Copyright 2020 Webmaster