Skip Navigation California State University, Fullerton Site Menu College of the Arts Main Navigation About Us Show Extended Contact Dean's Message Facilities Visitor Information Students Show Extended Advising (Current Students) Advising and Registration (New Students) Assistant Dean for Student Affairs First Generation College Students Get Involved! Scholarships Student Success Center University Catalogue (2022-2023) Events & Visitor Information Show Extended PERFORMANCES & EXHIBITIONS College of the Arts Events & Activities Calendar Grand Central Art Center Exhibitions Digital Program Booklets BOX OFFICE & VISITOR INFORMATION Clayes Performing Arts Center Box Office Visitor Information Alumni Spotlights & Arts Titans in the News Show Extended Alumni: Share Your Story! Featured Alumni Titan of Tassel Titan of Winds Arts Titans in the News Art Dance Music Theatre Nicholas & Lee Begovich Gallery Grand Central Art Center Support Groups Show Extended Art Alliance Alliance for the Performing Arts/MAMM Music Associates Donate Now Purchase Tickets Get Connected New Student Advising and Registration Welcome College of the Arts Students, We are excited that you will begin your academic journey this Fall 2022 semester in the College of the Arts at California State University, Fullerton (CSUF). It is a destination of choice for students seeking the highest quality training in the visual and performing arts in an environment that encourages individual achievement and artistic expression. The College of the Arts has a strong commitment to excellence. Our vibrant learning community of faculty, administrators, and staff is committed to helping students achieve their educational goals. Newly admitted students will be contacted by their respective department to schedule an advising appointment. Please check your campus email account daily. Congratulations again on your CSUF admission, we look forward to sharing the next few years of excellence with you. Visit your department's page for more information specific to your major: Dance Music Theatre Visual Arts This site is maintained by College of the Arts. Last Published 5/26/22 To report problems or comments with this site, please contact jbussell@fullerton.edu. © California State University, Fullerton. All Rights Reserved. Web Accessibility CSUF is committed to ensuring equal accessibility to our users. Let us know about any accessibility problems you encounter using this website. We'll do our best to improve things and get you the information you need. Resources: Download Adobe Acrobat Reader Adobe Reader Download Word viewer, or download Excel viewer, or download PowerPoint viewer Microsoft Viewers Report An ATI Issue Accessible @ CSUF Version_4.8.13 This page uses javascript to help render elements, if you have problems please enable javascript.