Skip to the main content United States Air Force Academy Go to home page image/svg+xml Page 1 Go to home page Link to home page Virtual Tour Radio Parents Graduates Visitors Prep School Graduation Newsletter Apply Today Menu Search the Site Academics A rigorous academic program that balances STEM with the arts and humanities. Academics Core Curriculum Departments Majors & Minors Library Academic Calendar Registrar Faculty and Staff Directory Academic Success Center Request a Transcript Investigator or Verifications Admissions News Research Learn more about cutting-edge research that supports the Air Force and our global society. Research Office of Research Research Centers Cadet Summer Research STEM Outreach Future Conflict Cadet Life Take a peek into the life of a United States Air Force Academy cadet. Cadet Life Dormitories & Dining Cadet Clubs Cadet Support Services Day in the Life Frequently Asked Questions Military With a focus on innovation and adaptation to the changing world of warfare, we’re setting higher expectations for what it means to serve. Military Basic Cadet Training Squadrons Airmanship Military Careers Wings of Blue Athletics About There’s no limit to what you will achieve here. Academics. Athletics. Military training. We deliver the future leaders of modern warfare. About Leadership Character Development History Awards Traditions Educational Innovation More Virtual Tour Radio Parents Graduates Visitors Prep School Graduation Newsletter Apply Today Back To Cadet Life Dormitories & Dining Clubs Cadet Support Services Day in the Life Frequently Asked Questions Cadet Support Services Building leaders of character also means helping our future Air Force and Space Force officers maintain balance in their physical, spiritual, social and mental walks of life. The U.S. Air Force Academy has a number of programs, offices and initiatives dedicated to supporting cadets: Cadet Sponsor Program A unique and rewarding way to support the Academy, the Sponsor Program offers members of the local Colorado Springs community the opportunity to play a significant role in the life of a cadet. Learn more. Counseling and Advising The Academy provides a variety of options for cadets to seek out counseling and guidance. Whether you’re a fourth-degree seeking assistance adjusting to the military lifestyle or a two-degree struggling with relationship issues, faculty, staff and other cadets are available to help. Learn more. Helping Agencies We offer a comprehensive set of programs that support and enhance the physical, spiritual, social, and mental walks of life for our cadets. Learn more. Sexual Assault Prevention and Response Our Sexual Assault Prevention and Response (SAPR) team provides prevention education and training, awareness programs and caring and dedicated response efforts to victims of sexual violence. Learn more. Spiritual Life Chaplains provide all cadets with daily opportunities for worship, regular visitation within the cadet-training areas and are available to provide confidential counseling and mentorship. Cadets voluntarily participate in spiritual and religious opportunities of their own choosing. Learn more. Voting Assistance The Voting Assistance Office ensures cadets are aware of their right to vote and have the tools and resources to successfully do so. Learn more. ACADEMICS Departments Majors & Minors Library Academic Calendar Research Centers Faculty and Staff Directory CAMPUS Events Employment Emergency Weather Helping Agencies Apps COMMUNITY AF CyberWorx USAFA Band Force Support Wings of Blue VISIT Visitors Campus Map Facilities Cadet Chapel Planetarium Base Access Contact Us Social Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Flickr © 2022 United States Air Force Academy, All Rights Reserved The appearance of hyperlinks does not constitute endorsement by the Department of the Air Force or the information, products, or services contained therein. For other than authorized activities such as military exchanges and morale, welfare and recreation sites, the Department of the Air Force does not exercise any editorial control over the information you may find at these locations. Such links provided are consistent with the stated purpose of this DOD Web site.