Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Information For Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff Search BC.edu Links University Catalog Menu Main Nav University Catalog University Catalog Back Back Close Undergraduate Programs Overview Carroll School of Management Accounting Business Analytics Business Law and Society Finance General Management Information Systems Management and Organization Marketing Connell School of Nursing Lynch School of Education and Human Development Morrissey College of Arts and Sciences African and African Diaspora Studies Art, Art History, and Film Biochemistry Biology Chemistry Classical Studies Communication Computer Science Earth and Environmental Sciences Eastern, Slavic, and German Studies Economics Engineering English Environmental Studies History Interdisciplinary Programs and Minors (MCAS) International Studies Islamic Civilization and Societies Mathematics Music Philosophy Physics Political Science Psychology and Neuroscience Romance Languages and Literatures Sociology Theatre Theology University Courses Schiller Institute for Integrated Science and Society Woods College of Advancing Studies Summer Session Graduate Programs Overview Boston College Law School Boston College School of Social Work Carroll School of Management Connell School of Nursing Lynch School of Education and Human Development Morrissey College of Arts and Sciences Biology Chemistry Classical Studies Earth and Environmental Sciences Economics English History Islamic Civilization and Societies Mathematics Philosophy Physics Political Science Psychology and Neuroscience Romance Languages and Literatures Sociology Theology School of Theology and Ministry Woods College of Advancing Studies Courses Overview Boston College Law School Boston College School of Social Work Carroll School of Management Accounting Courses Business Analytics Courses Business Law and Society Courses Business Writing and Communication Courses Finance Courses Information Systems Courses Management and Organization Courses Management Elective Courses Management Required Courses Marketing Courses Portico Courses Undergraduate Management Courses Connell School of Nursing Nursing Courses Forensics Courses Palliative Care Courses Lynch School of Education and Human Development Counseling, Developmental, and Educational Psychology Courses Educational Leadership and Higher Education Courses Experience, Reflection, Action Courses Learning Engineering Courses Measurement, Evaluation, Statistics, and Assessment Courses Teacher Education and Curriculum and Instruction Courses Morrissey College of Arts and Sciences African and African Diaspora Studies Courses Art History Courses Biology Courses Capstone Courses Chemistry Courses Classical Studies Courses Communication Courses Computer Science Courses Cornerstone Courses Earth and Environmental Sciences Courses East Asian Languages and Civilizations Courses Economics Courses Engineering Courses English Courses Environmental Studies Courses Film Courses French Courses German Studies Courses Hispanic Studies Courses History Courses Italian Courses International Studies Courses Islamic Civilization and Societies Courses Jesuit Studies Courses Journalism Courses Linguistics Courses Mathematics Courses Music Academic Courses Music Performance Courses Near Eastern Languages and Civilizations Courses Philosophy Courses Physics Courses Political Science Courses Psychology and Neuroscience Courses Romance Languages and Literatures Courses Slavic Studies Courses Sociology Courses Studio Art Courses Theatre Courses Theology Courses University Courses Schiller Institute for Integrated Science and Society School of Theology and Ministry Christian Ethics Courses Course Area Unspecified Courses History of Christianity Courses New Testament Courses Old Testament Courses Pastoral Studies Courses Practical Theology Courses Religious Education Courses Systematic and Historical Theology Courses Woods College of Advancing Studies Accounting Courses Administrative Studies Courses Biology Courses Business Management Courses Communication Courses Corporate Systems Courses Criminal Justice Courses Cybersecurity Courses Economics Courses Education Courses English Courses Examined Life Courses Film Courses Finance Courses Fine Arts Courses Geology Courses Healthcare Administration Courses History Courses Information Technology Courses Journalism Courses Law Courses Leadership Studies Courses Marketing Courses Mathematics Courses Philosophy Courses Political Science Courses Psychology Courses Romance Languages Courses Sociology Courses Spanish Courses Sports Administration Courses Sustainability Courses Theology Courses Policies and Procedures Catalog Archive Close Directory A to Z Listing Search University Catalog Search BC.edu Find pages or people Search Close Close Apply Visit Give Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close Home Undergraduate Programs Carroll School of Management Finance Carroll School of Management Accounting Business Analytics Business Law and Society Finance General Management Information Systems Management and Organization Marketing Finance Accessibility to preeminent finance faculty and cutting-edge academic research are key ingredients to providing undergraduate and graduate students with the tools and methods necessary to expand their understanding of finance. Rigorous training at all academic levels prepares students for the quantitative and analytical challenges in both the business and academic fields. Concentrations and degrees for qualified students include: Undergraduate Concentration in Finance Master of Science in Finance Ph.D. Program in Finance Our nationally recognized Finance Department, cited by U.S. News & World Report as among the top 15 in the country, hosts the Finance Department Seminar Series featuring top scholars from around the world addressing current research and trends in the field. These weekly seminars provide an engaging forum for students, faculty, and practitioners alike. In addition, informal brown bag lunches are hosted throughout the year by the Department. Members of the Finance Department consistently facilitate meaningful interaction between students and professionals through an alumni advisement system which supplements faculty advisement in the areas of financial institutions, manufacturing firms, service firms, nonprofit organizations, and government agencies. Finance Courses Finance Faculty Finance Website Print Open All Close All Concentration in Finance Concentration in Finance Finance Concentration Course Requirements All required finance core courses (1–4) and select elective (5) must be taken in CSOM only. Five Prescribed Courses 1. MFIN1021 Fundamentals of Finance (formerly Basic Finance) (prerequisite: ACCT1021) 2. MFIN1127 Corporate Finance (prerequisite: MFIN1021) 3. MFIN1151 Investments (prerequisite: MFIN1021) 4. One elective from the following list* (courses listed below must be taken in CSOM) MFIN2202 Derivatives and Risk Management MFIN2205 Corporate Financial Strategies MFIN2225 Financial Policy MFIN2230 International Finance MFIN2235 Investment Banking MFIN2250 Fixed Income Analysis MFIN2270 Data Analytics in Finance 5. At least 1 elective from any MFIN^ course offered outside of the required courses or another from the set list above. * Not every course will be offered each semester. Additional courses may be added to set list in the future. Please pay careful attention to prerequisites which are listed in Course Information and Schedule. ^ All MFIN66XX electives require senior status and permission from the Department. This requires that seniors visit with Prof. Elliott Smith in Fulton 330B to seek approval, giving consideration to the student’s successful completion of the required prerequisites. See Course Information and Schedule for up-to-date course listings. Regardless of your concentration, we expect finance concentrators to have understanding in the following areas: major investment, financing and governance decisions (e.g., capital structure, merger and acquisitions, dividend, board of directors, etc.) of corporations; the risk and return trade-offs in investment and know how to evaluate basic financial products (e.g., stocks, bonds and derivatives); the role of financial institutions/intermediaries (e.g., investment and commercial banks, asset management companies) in the financial system; the role of financial markets in the economy and the need for efficient regulations. For more information about the concentration in finance, visit the Finance Department's Academics and Study Abroad page. Minor in Finance Minor in Finance This minor is for non-CSOM students who are interested in learning more finance to be better prepared for careers in financial institutions, service firms, nonprofits, and government agencies. Required courses: ACCT1021 Introduction to Financial Accounting MFIN1021 Fundamentals of Finance (formerly Basic Finance) (sophomore or junior year) MFIN1127 Corporate Finance (prerequisite: MFIN1021) (junior or senior year) MFIN1151 Investments (prerequisite: MFIN1021) (junior or senior year) One elective from the following list* (courses listed below must be taken in CSOM) MFIN2202 Derivatives and Risk Management MFIN2205 Corporate Financial Strategies MFIN2225 Financial Policy MFIN2230 International Finance MFIN2235 Investment Banking MFIN2250 Fixed Income Analysis MFIN2270 Data Analytics in Finance At least 1 elective from any MFIN^ course offered outside of the required courses or another from the set list above. * Not every course will be offered each semester. Additional courses may be added to set list in the future. Please pay careful attention to prerequisites which are listed in Course Information and Schedule. ^ All MFIN66XX electives require senior status and permission from the Department. This requires that seniors visit with Prof. Elliott Smith in Fulton 330B to seek approval, giving consideration to the student’s successful completion of the required prerequisites. See Course Information and Schedule for up-to-date course listings. Information for Study Abroad Information for Study Abroad All students wishing to study abroad must first meet with an advisor in the Office of International Programs (OIP). If accepted into the study abroad program and approved by the Undergraduate Dean's Office (Fulton 315), the student should then contact either the Department Chairperson, Ronnie Sadka (Fulton 560C), or Elliott Smith (Fulton 330B), by e-mail or in person, with all supporting documentation (course description, detailed syllabus, etc.) for elective course approvals. Any requested finance elective abroad must be equivalent to a finance elective taught at BC. The Finance Department requires that Financial Accounting (ACCT1021) and Fundamentals of Finance (formerly Basic Finance) (MFIN1021) be taken at Boston College as prerequisites for any finance elective prior to going abroad. All required finance concentration core courses must be taken in CSOM only. In the rare circumstance where course selection is only available upon arrival at the university, you must e-mail the course syllabus to either the Department Chairperson, Ronnie Sadka, or Elliott Smith before enrolling in the course in order to obtain approval. If the course is deemed a suitable finance elective, the Finance Department will send a confirming e-mail to you approving the course for credit. All approvals should be obtained prior to going abroad. No approvals will be granted after the course has been completed. For more information about study abroad, visit the Finance Department's Academics and Study Abroad page. Back To Top Back To Top Managed By University Catalog Office of Student Services Lyons Hall 103 140 Commonwealth Avenue Chestnut Hill, MA 02467 Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College