COVID-19 UH Updates skip to Main Content Home Directory MyUH Work at UH Apply Twitter Facebook Instagram Flickr Youtube Campuses dropdown menu column 1 Overviews Universities Mānoa Hilo West Oʻahu column 2 Community Colleges Hawaiʻi Honolulu Kapiʻolani Kauaʻi Leeward Maui Windward column 3 Distance Learning UH Education Centers Continuing Education Community Colleges Attend dropdown menu column 1 Overview Degrees and Programs column 2 Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition UH System dropdown menu column 1 About UH Strategic Directions Policies and Procedures Title IX column 2 Leadership Board of Regents System Offices A-Z Stewardship of Maunakea column 3 UH News Emergency Post-Pandemic Hawaiʻi and UH column 4 Support UH UH Foundation UH Alumni Relations Make a Gift UH Scholarship Opportunities UH System » Tuition » Scholarships Financial AidScholarshipsHow to ApplyFAQAdmin & Committee Resources The University of Hawaiʻi offers a variety of scholarship opportunities to students attending any of the ten UH campuses. Scholarships available include need and merit-based awards, scholarships based on specific majors, preference for geographic location, campus and other unique criteria. Within the UH System, students can apply for UH System Scholarships, campus scholarships, as well as scholarships that vary by campus department. Since campuses vary, students are encouraged to begin by looking at their home campus financial aid office website for more information. Log into STAR for UH Mānoa specific scholarships. For information regarding other campus-specific scholarships, please contact the appropriate campus financial aid office. See tuition information by campus. Campus Scholarships University of Hawaiʻi at Mānoa University of Hawaiʻi at Hilo University of Hawaiʻi at West Oʻahu Hawaiʻi Community College Honolulu Community College Kapiʻolani Community College Kauaʻi Community College Leeward Community College University of Hawaiʻi Maui College Windward Community College UH System Common Scholarship Application The UH System Common Scholarship Application is one way students can apply for multiple system and campus scholarships at the same time. This application is used for students interested in applying for: UH System Scholarships (Awarded by the UH System Financial Aid Office) Campus-specific scholarships (excluding UH Mānoa scholarships administered by department or the UH Mānoa Financial Aid Office) UH Community Colleges Scholarships (available through the Office of the Vice President for Community Colleges) UH Mānoa New Warrior Scholarships & Presidential Scholarships (e.g. Provost Achievement, Regents, Mānoa Excellence, and Mānoa International Excellence Scholarships) UH System Scholarships are scholarships awarded by our UH System Office, and can usually be used at different UH campuses. To determine what application(s) you need to complete, click on your campus above. To complete the UH System Common Scholarship Application, click “How to Apply” for more information. The UH System Common Scholarship Application is also the primary application used by all of our UH campuses (with the exception of UH Mānoa which uses multiple applications). Many of the scholarships available through the UH System Common Scholarship Application are funds available through the University of Hawaiʻi Foundation. The University of Hawaiʻi Foundation awards about $5 million annually from various private and corporate donations. Each UH campus has a broad pool of funds for student financial awards. To help balance donor preferences and legal requirements regarding scholarships, a pool and match method of managing scholarships is utilized via a common scholarship application platform. UH selects recipients for the majority of awards based on neutral criteria such as merit and financial need. In rare cases where funding was given to UH with specific restrictions (such as gender), the institution will honor those restrictions to the extent allowed by law. This approach using a common scholarship application system ensures that UH awards scholarships in a manner that does not result in an advantage or disadvantage to a recipient because of his or her race, color, national origin, ethnicity, or gender. How to Apply More UH Scholarships The additional scholarships below may require separate applications. Please click on each for more information. Hawaiʻi Promise Scholarship Hawaiʻi Promise Scholarship is a need-based scholarship program designed to make college affordable to all qualified Hawaiʻi students. The program provides financial assistance to help meet the direct educational costs of University of Hawaiʻi Community College students who are enrolled at least half time in an eligible academic program. The “last dollar” scholarship is based on FAFSA-determined criteria and is applied after all other grants and scholarships have been awarded. It helps fill the financial gap for the direct educational costs of qualified students. Students may be eligible up to the amount of the total cost of UH direct costs including tuition, fees, books, supplies and a standard transportation allowance. More information about Hawaiʻi Promise State of Hawaiʻi B Plus Scholarship The State of Hawaiʻi B Plus Scholarship is for Hawaiʻi residents who graduated from a high school after 2005, has at least a 3.0 high school grade point average, has completed a rigorous high school curriculum and demonstrates financial need. Regents and Presidential Scholarship The Board of Regents established the Regents and Presidential Scholarships to support Hawaiʻi students with a record of outstanding academic achievement. Regents Scholarships are awarded to 20 outstanding freshmen and Presidential Scholarships are awarded to incoming juniors. Visit the Regents and Presidential Scholars page for more information and how to apply. UH Manoa Provost Achievement Scholarship Scholarships will be awarded by the Office of Admissions to high-achieving Hawaiʻi high school graduates. To be considered, students must meet the priority deadline for fall admission, the scholarship requirements, and be accepted to UH Mānoa. Visit the UH Mānoa Provost Achievement Scholarship website for more information. UH Hilo Chancellor's Scholarships The UH Hilo campus offers a competitive Chancellor’s Scholarship, which covers full tuition for four years. Factors considered include academic scholarship, leadership experience and potential, community service and financial need. Visit the UH Hilo Chancellor’s Scholarship website for more information. UH West Oahu Chancellor's Scholarship The University of Hawaiʻi–West Oʻahu offers a competitive full tuition award acknowledging academic achievement, leadership, and community service. Visit the UH West Oʻahu scholarship website for more information. The Second Century Scholarship The Second Century Scholarship is a need-based grant provided to Native Hawaiian students who demonstrate financial need. This scholarship is available to students across the UH System. The amount awarded will depend on the student’s financial need and funds available. To be eligible, Native Hawaiian students need only apply for financial aid through their campus financial aid offices. All regular aid deadlines apply. Questions? Check out the UH Scholarship FAQ or email the UH System Scholarship Office at scholars@hawaii.edu. Last modified: March 7, 2022 2444 Dole Street Honolulu, HI 96822 An equal opportunity/ affirmative action institution Use of this site implies consent with our Usage Policy copyright © 2022 University of Hawaiʻi Twitter Facebook Instagram Flickr YouTube Contact UH If required, information contained on this website can be made available in an alternative format upon request. Get Adobe Acrobat Reader Calendar Directory Emergency Information MyUH Privacy Statement Work at UH About UH Attend Campuses Degrees and Programs Leadership Offices Back To Top Submit