Skip to main content Submit Close Give to UH Search About Academics Admissions Campus Life Research Athletics Locations Sugar Land Katy UH Technology Bridge News & Events Giving UH Home Policies Other UH Policy Resources Syllabi & Instructor CVs Syllabi & Instructor CVs Accountability Task Force Frequently Asked Questions Instructors of Record Student Information Course Schedule Coordinators What is HB-2504/TEC 51.974? During the 2009 legislative session, the Texas Legislature passed a bill designated HB-2504 that mandated that all public institutions of higher learning in the State of Texas make available to the public certain information concerning undergraduate academic programs. These statutory provisions are now included in Section 51.974 of the Texas Education Code. Texas Education Code 51.974 mandates that certain information, including class syllabi, instructor-of-record CVs and cost of attendance (if available) must be readily accessible on the institution’s website (specifically no more than three clicks from the main web-page and without password protection). The effective date to comply with certain requirements of the bill is August 31, 2010. In June 2009, the UH System Senior Vice Chancellor for Academic Affairs constituted a system-wide faculty-driven task force to address implementation of certain elements of Texas House Bill 2504. The full Accountability Task Force report can be downloaded as a PDF document. Search UH Syllabus, Curriculum Vitae, and Departmental Financial Information Questions? Send email to hb2504@uh.edu Related Links Search UH Syllabus, Curriculum Vitae, and Departmental Financial Information Full Text of HB-2504 (.pdf) University of Houston Houston, Texas 77204 (713) 743-2255 A–Z Index Academic Calendar Campus Carry Policy Campus Map Career Opportunities Directory Emergency Information Get Help Human Resources Library Mental Health Resources Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Office of the President Parking Report Copyright Infringement Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness Open Records/Public Information Act Texas Veterans Portal Tuition & Fees UH System Virtual Tour ©2022 University of Houston. All rights reserved. Report a problem with this page Texas.gov Texas Homeland Security TRAIL Fraud Reporting Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Linking Notice Privacy Notice Open Records/Public Information Act Institutional Résumé Required Reports Electronic & Information Resources Accessibility Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness University Policies