Skip to main content Toggle subitems Main navigation Meet Princeton Toggle sub-items In Service of Humanity Facts & Figures History Honors & Awards Contact Us Visit Us Our Faculty Our Students Our Alumni Our Staff Our Leadership Academic Freedom and Free Expression Academics Toggle sub-items Studying at Princeton Library Areas of Study Humanities Social Sciences Engineering Natural Sciences Advising Academic Calendar Course Tools Learning Abroad Career Development Continuing Education Innovative Learning Research Toggle sub-items Engineering & Applied Science Humanities Natural Sciences Social Sciences Interdisciplinary Approach Dean for Research Office External Partnerships Facilities & Labs One Community Toggle sub-items Lifelong Connections Student Life Arts & Culture Athletics Living in Princeton, N.J. Housing & Dining Activities & Organizations Cultural & Affinity Groups Health & Wellness Religious Life Serving the Public Good Families Admission & Aid Toggle sub-items Affordable for All About Financial Aid Current Undergraduate Financial Aid Undergraduate Admission Graduate Admission For International Students Utility menu News Events Work at Princeton Services & Resources Work-Life Balance Links for Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Giving Search Sites & People × Admission & Aid Join Us at Princeton Princeton is a vibrant community that seeks to enroll students of all backgrounds and interests. We are a leader in ensuring admitted students can afford college, offering one of the strongest need-based financial aid programs in the country. Affordable for All We are committed to making a Princeton education affordable to all. Our generous financial aid program allows undergraduates to graduate from Princeton debt free. Graduate students also benefit from significant University support and other funding resources. Learn More Why Princeton? “Personally, I chose to enroll at Princeton University because of the Princeton School of Public and International Affairs [formerly the Woodrow Wilson School], the prestigious academics, and the generous financial aid. The financial aid program was truly a blessing; my family has two children in college at the moment, so Princeton’s willingness to help with the process was welcomed with open arms.” Read Andrea's story Facts & Figures $56,500 Average annual grant for the Class of 2023 61% Undergraduate students who receive financial aid 82% Recent seniors who graduated with no debt 24% Class of 2023 eligible for low-income federal grants 100% Tuition, room, board and residential college fee covered for families earning up to $65,000 in the Class of 2023 Show Me More Facts and Figures Questions About Financial Aid? Learn More Current Student? See Financial Aid Resources Undergraduate Admission Visit the Undergraduate Admission website for more information about undergraduate programs, admission requirements, how to apply and the University's generous financial aid program. Learn More Graduate Admission The Graduate School is at the heart of Princeton's teaching and research mission. We prepare graduate students for distinguished careers, and students from all disciplines and backgrounds are encouraged to apply to our Ph.D. and master's programs. Learn More For International Students Princeton is a diverse community that welcomes students and faculty from around the world. We understand that international students may have particular questions about the process of applying for undergraduate or graduate admission. Learn More Visit Us A visit to our beautiful campus will give you a good idea of what Princeton has to offer. Tours and information session are available throughout the year. A virtual tour also can serve as your guide. Directions Maps Tours & Information Sessions Town & Region Contact links Contact Us Accessibility Advanced People Search Media Inquiries Website Feedback Visiting links Plan a Visit Maps & Shuttles Varsity Athletics Giving to Princeton Academic links Library Academic Calendar Student Links Faculty & Staff Links Footer social media Facebook Twitter Instagram Snapchat LinkedIn YouTube Social Media Directory Equal Opportunity and Nondiscrimination at Princeton University: Princeton University believes that commitment to principles of fairness and respect for all is favorable to the free and open exchange of ideas, and the University seeks to reach out as widely as possible in order to attract the ablest individuals as students, faculty, and staff. In applying this policy, the University is committed to nondiscrimination on the basis of personal beliefs or characteristics such as political views, religion, national or ethnic origin, race, color, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity or expression, pregnancy, age, marital or domestic partnership status, veteran status, disability, genetic information and/or other characteristics protected by applicable law in any phase of its education or employment programs or activities. In addition, pursuant to Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 and supporting regulations, Princeton does not discriminate on the basis of sex in the education programs or activities that it operates; this extends to admission and employment. Inquiries about the application of Title IX and its supporting regulations may be directed to the Assistant Secretary for Civil Rights, Office for Civil Rights, U.S. Department of Education or to the University's Sexual Misconduct/Title IX Coordinator. See Princeton’s full Equal Opportunity Policy and Nondiscrimination Statement. Princeton University Princeton, NJ 08544 Operator: (609) 258-3000 © 2022 The Trustees of Princeton University Subfooter links Copyright Infringement Privacy Notice