Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Admission Visit Search BC.edu Links Menu Main Nav Back Back Close About Overview Diversity, Equity, Inclusion, & Justice Dean Stanton Wortham Mission & History About Carolyn and Peter Lynch Facts & Figures Contact Related Links Catholic Education Research Initiative Formative Education Initiative Admission Overview Why LSEHD? Tuition & Aid Deadlines & Requirements Request Info Related Links Undergraduate Admission & Aid Diversity, Equity, Inclusion, & Justice Academics Overview Undergraduate Programs Applied Psychology and Human Development Elementary Education Secondary Education Transformative Educational Studies Lynch School Minors Interdisciplinary Majors Experience, Reflection, Action (ERA) Study Abroad Internal Transfer Master's Programs Doctoral Programs Professional & Continuing Education professional-certificates-instructional-design Certificate Programs Certificate in Human Rights and International Justice Certificate in Positive Youth Development Certificate in Child and Family Mental Health Certificate in Social Justice Leadership Certificate in Educational Policy Development Certificate in International Higher Education Certificate in Institutional Research Certificate in Serving Exceptional Learners in Catholic Schools Certificate in Autism Spectrum Disorder Certificate in Bilingual Education Certificate in Deafblindness Certificate in Special Education Certificate in Teaching English Language Learners Online Programs Commencement Summer Session Departments CDEP Master of Arts (M.A.) in Mental Health Counseling Master of Arts (M.A.) in School Counseling Dual Master of Arts (M.A./M.A.) in Theology and Ministry and Counseling Psychology Doctor of Philosophy (Ph.D.) in Applied Developmental and Educational Psychology Doctor of Philosophy (Ph.D.) in Counseling Psychology Counseling Practicum Applied Psychology Practicum z_archive applied-developmental-and-educational-psychology-ma /counseling-psychology-phd Test Page school-counseling mental-health-counseling counseling-psychology-phd Faculty & Expertise Counseling Practicum Program Offerings Admission Mission Program Aims & Learning Outcomes Student Admissions, Outcomes, & Other Data About Our Program Counseling Psychology Accreditation Professional Associations Academics & Training ELHE Educational Leadership and Policy, M.Ed. Master of Arts (M.A.) in Higher Education Higher Education Interview Days Master of Arts (M.A.) in International Higher Education Dual Degree Program (M.A./M.B.A.) Dual Degree Program (J.D./M.Ed./M.A.) Doctor of Education (Ed.D.) in Educational Leadership Doctor of Philosophy (Ph.D.) in Higher Education _z_archive Certificate in Social Justice Leadership About Us Higher Education Scholars @ BC Blog higher-education-ma Doctor of Education (Ed.D.) in Higher Education Comprehensive Exams Information master-of-arts-in-higher-education-master-of-business-administra law-and-education-dual-degree-programs Certificate in Social Justice Leadership Certificate in Educational Policy Development Certificate in Educational Policy Development Educational Leadership & Higher Education Blog Field Experience Program History Higher Education FAQ Higher Education Comprehensive Exams Mary Kinnane Award IDPG Master of Arts (M.A.) in Learning Engineering _z_archive MESA M.S. in Applied Statistics and Psychometrics M.A. in Research and Evaluation Methods Doctor of Philosophy (Ph.D.) in Measurement, Evaluation, Statistics, and Assessment _z_archive Test New MESA Faculty Member Mission Statement Margeau Jong MESA Testimonials applied-statistics-and-psychometrics-ms Graduate Testimonials Graduate Voices MESA Students MESA Alumni & Employment Data MESA Research TCS Master of Education (M.Ed./C.A.E.S.) in Curriculum and Instruction Master of Education (M.Ed.) in Early Childhood Education Master of Education (M.Ed.) in Elementary Education Master of Education (M.Ed.) in Jesuit Education in a Global World Master of Education (M.Ed., C.A.E.S.) in Special Education for Moderate Support Needs Master of Education in Secondary Education Master of Education (M.Ed./C.A.E.S.) in Special Education for Extensive Support Needs Global Perspectives Doctor of Philosophy (Ph.D.) in Curriculum and Instruction Special Education Licensure Offerings M.Ed. in Elementary Education & Extensive Support Needs M.Ed. in Elementary Education & Moderate Support Needs M.Ed. in Moderate & Extensive Support Needs M.Ed. in Secondary Education & Moderate Support Needs Urban Catholic Teacher Corps Student Teaching _z_archive Teacher Certification Related Links Programs of Study Student Teaching Academic Calendar Study Abroad Faculty & Research Overview Faculty Directory & Expertise Research Opportunities AERA 2022 Presentations APA 2021 Presentations Related Links News & Videos Academic Calendar Centers & Initiatives Overview Administrators in Catholic Higher Ed Catholic Education Research Community Justice & Engaged Pedagogy Early Childhood Policy Equitable Instruction Initiative Formative Education International Higher Ed International Human Rights Center for Thriving Children Psychological Humanities & Ethics Roche Center Testing, Evaluation, & Educational Policy The Campus School The Study of Race & Culture TIMSS & PIRLS International Study Center Urban Outreach Initiatives Donovan Urban Teaching Scholars Program Work Intervention Network Community Overview Mentoring & Advising Service Learning Living in Boston Global BC Resources Related Links Diversity & Inclusion Global Faculty Directory & Expertise BC Campus Life BC Veterans News & Videos Close Directory A to Z Listing Search Lynch School Website Search BC.edu Find pages or people Search Close Close Admission Visit BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close home Academics Departments ELHE Educational Leadership and Policy, M.Ed. Master of Education (M.Ed.) in Educational Leadership & Policy Master of Education (M.Ed.) in Educational Leadership & Policy ELHE Educational Leadership & Higher Education This program will prepare students for leadership roles in schools and districts across sectors (public, private, parochial, charter, etc.) and geographic regions as well as those who aspire to educational leadership roles in policy or advocacy positions in educational foundations or community-based organizations. What Sets Us Apart The Master of Education in Educational Leadership and Policy addresses leadership challenges through a comprehensive and agile course of study, centered on standards-based reform, technological advances, and evidence-based practices. Within the M.Ed. in Educational Leadership and Policy, there are multiple pathways for additional certification: Certificate in Social Justice Leadership Certificate in Educational Policy Development School Principal Licensure* *School Principal Licensure is currently only available for students who reside in MA. The program concludes with a reflection seminar where students examine learnings and experiences. The dynamic faculty of the Lynch School of Education and Human Development are committed teachers and leading scholars. What You Will Learn Graduates from the Educational Leadership and Policy program at the Lynch School will learn to: Practice critical self-reflection and discernment Foster an ethical, mission-driven school or educational environment/organization Create structures that advance organizational and professional learning Observe, assess, and support effective teaching and instructional practices Advance equity and agency across multiple constituencies The M.Ed. in Educational Leadership & Policy is a program approved and monitored by the Department of Elementary and Secondary Education in Massachusetts (DESE). Formal learning outcomes were developed by the DESE and apply to all students, whether or not they are seeking licensure. School leaders promote the learning and growth of all students and staff success through the following: Instructional Leadership: Cultivate a shared vision Make effective teaching and learning the central focus Management and Operations: Ensure a safe, efficient, and effective learning environment Use resources to implement appropriate curriculum, staffing, and scheduling Family and Community Engagement: Build partnerships with families, community organizations, and other stakeholders that support the mission of the school and district Professional Culture Nurture and sustain a school culture of reflective practice, high expectations, and continuous learning for staff Your Future Starts Here Introduce Yourself Loading... Apply Online Program Webinars Prepare for leadership: Ideal applicants include: School policy developers and evaluators Teachers looking to make an impact Individuals interested in making teaching effective and learning the central focus of schools/districts School policy developers and evaluators Educators committed to leadership, advocacy, and partnerships At a Glance Flexibility Online and hybrid options are available. How long will it take? This program consists of 30 credits. Students typically finish the program in 2 years. When can I start? Students can begin the program at the start of the fall, spring, or summer terms. Contact Us gsoeonline@bc.edu 617-552-4600 Curriculum Our graduates will apply social justice values and leadership strategies to shape the organizational culture and processes among the professionals (teachers/administrators), community leaders, and parents and families to improve student development. Requirements Courses: 10 Credits: 30 Program of Study The Educational Leadership program offers four pathways to a Master's Degree. M.Ed. General Track M.Ed. Licensure Track M.Ed. with Certificate in Social Justice Leadership M.Ed. with Certificate in Educational Policy Development Core (7 courses) Course Course Title Credit ELHE 7701 Introduction to Educational Leadership and Change Brings a foundational focus to the work of educational administration, centering on the core work of teaching and learning and exploring how that central work is supported by the cultural, technical, political, and ethical systems of the school. 3 ELHE 7726 Organizational Theory and Learning Rather than focusing on traits of the individual leader, this course focuses on the dimensions of organizations and teams that both facilitate and complicate leadership. Examples include managing conflict, developing a shared vision, and differentiating between technical and adaptive change. 3 ELHE 7727 Family and Community Engagement This course will explore the theory and practice of family-school-community relationships with a particular focus on the role of school leaders in enacting organizational models, educational programs, and political strategies designed to increase authentic parent and community participation in schools and other educational organizations. 3 ELHE 7708 Instructional Leadership Introduces students to many of the contested issues in the field of supervision, such as the relationship between supervision and teacher development, teacher empowerment, teacher alienation, learning theories, school effectiveness, school restructuring, curriculum development, and scientific management. 3 ELHE 7711 Using Data and Evidence for School Improvement This course prepares leaders to manage initiatives around continuous improvement and data-informed inquiry. On one hand, students will develop basic research skills that will contribute to evidence-based school improvement, including action research. On the other hand, students will explore the landscape of supports and barriers to using data and other evidence effectively in schools. 3 ELHE 7103 Educational Law and Public Policy This course addresses the political and legal aspects of the role of education in our democratic society. Provides an introductory survey of public policy issues and laws governing preschool, elementary, secondary, and higher education. 3 ELHE 7756 Reflection on Leadership Seminar The primary purpose of the Reflection on Leadership Seminar is for students to synthesize their learning across their course of studies and prepare to apply this as they continue on their career and vocational journey. The course will be conducted in a seminar format, with students sharing in the leadership of the course discussions and activities. Students will: describe how they have experienced the signature pedagogies across their program of study; provide clear evidence of their level of mastery of the key behaviors for educational leadership; articulate how they envision continuing to grow and innovate as a research-informed practitioner. 3 Electives (3 courses) Students must choose 3 electives from the following: Course Course Title Credit ELHE 7505 Transforming the Field of Catholic Education 3 ELHE 7704 Ethics and Equity in Education 3 ELHE 7707 Leadership in Social Justice 3 ELHE 7702 Educational Policy in Practice 3 ELHE 7705 Education Policy Analysis 3 ELHE 7712 School Leadership for Emergent Bilinguals 3 Program Completion Course Course Title Credits ELHE 8100 Comprehensive Exam 0 Students seeking Massachusetts principal licensure take a 6 credit practicum across three semesters and SEI endorsement for school leaders for a total program of study of 30 credits. As part of this program, each student completes a 500-hour substantive practicum across 3 semesters, and prepares a portfolio aligned with the state leadership indicators. The practicum must occur within the state of Massachusetts To be licensed in this area, the student must possess an Initial License as a teacher in Massachusetts or in a state with which Massachusetts has a reciprocal agreement, and have taught for at least three years by the time they apply for licensure. All students seeking licensure in Massachusetts must pass the Massachusetts Performance Assessment for Leadership (MA-PAL). The University will advise unlicensed private school teachers who are seeking state licensure in the administration of this requirement. Core (6 courses) Course Course Title Credit ELHE 7701 Introduction to Educational Leadership and Change Brings a foundational focus to the work of educational administration, centering on the core work of teaching and learning and exploring how that central work is supported by the cultural, technical, political, and ethical systems of the school. 3 ELHE 7726 Organizational Theory and Learning Rather than focusing on traits of the individual leader, this course focuses on the dimensions of organizations and teams that both facilitate and complicate leadership. Examples include managing conflict, developing a shared vision, and differentiating between technical and adaptive change. 3 ELHE 7727 Family and Community Engagement This course will explore the theory and practice of family-school-community relationships with a particular focus on the role of school leaders in enacting organizational models, educational programs, and political strategies designed to increase authentic parent and community participation in schools and other educational organizations. 3 ELHE 7708 Instructional Leadership Introduces students to many of the contested issues in the field of supervision, such as the relationship between supervision and teacher development, teacher empowerment, teacher alienation, learning theories, school effectiveness, school restructuring, curriculum development, and scientific management. 3 ELHE 7711 Using Data and Evidence for School Improvement This course prepares leaders to manage initiatives around continuous improvement and data-informed inquiry. On one hand, students will develop basic research skills that will contribute to evidence-based school improvement, including action research. On the other hand, students will explore the landscape of supports and barriers to using data and other evidence effectively in schools. 3 ELHE 7103 Educational Law and Public Policy This course addresses the political and legal aspects of the role of education in our democratic society. Provides an introductory survey of public policy issues and laws governing preschool, elementary, secondary, and higher education. 3 Licensure (2 courses) Course Course Title Credit ELHE 7712 School Leadership for Emergent Bilinguals 3 ELHE 7952 Practicum in Principalship 6 Elective (1 course) Course Course Title Credit ELHE 7712 School Leadership for Emergent Bilinguals 3 ELHE Education Policy Development 3 ELHE 7704 Ethics and Equity in Education 3 ELHE 7707 Leadership for Social Justice 3 ELHE 7609 Law and Education Reform 3 Final Reflection Course Course Course Title Credit ELHE Reflection on Leadership Seminar 3 Certificate in Social Justice Leadership The Certificate in Social Justice Leadership helps current and aspiring leaders develop and enact a theory of change to boldly advance equity in schools. Through a series of four courses, participants discern organizational impediments to students’ opportunities to learn, then envision and enact a systemic response to confront these barriers. The goal of the program is to provide intensive support to educators committed to deepening their knowledge, skills, and dispositions to ameliorate educational inequities. Core (6 courses) Course Course Title Credit ELHE 7701 Introduction to Educational Leadership and Change Brings a foundational focus to the work of educational administration, centering on the core work of teaching and learning and exploring how that central work is supported by the cultural, technical, political, and ethical systems of the school. 3 ELHE 7726 Organizational Theory and Learning Rather than focusing on traits of the individual leader, this course focuses on the dimensions of organizations and teams that both facilitate and complicate leadership. Examples include managing conflict, developing a shared vision, and differentiating between technical and adaptive change. 3 ELHE 7727 Family and Community Engagement This course will explore the theory and practice of family-school-community relationships with a particular focus on the role of school leaders in enacting organizational models, educational programs, and political strategies designed to increase authentic parent and community participation in schools and other educational organizations. 3 ELHE 7708 Instructional Leadership Introduces students to many of the contested issues in the field of supervision, such as the relationship between supervision and teacher development, teacher empowerment, teacher alienation, learning theories, school effectiveness, school restructuring, curriculum development, and scientific management. 3 ELHE 7711 Using Data and Evidence for School Improvement This course prepares leaders to manage initiatives around continuous improvement and data-informed inquiry. On one hand, students will develop basic research skills that will contribute to evidence-based school improvement, including action research. On the other hand, students will explore the landscape of supports and barriers to using data and other evidence effectively in schools. 3 ELHE 7103 Educational Law and Public Policy This course addresses the political and legal aspects of the role of education in our democratic society. Provides an introductory survey of public policy issues and laws governing preschool, elementary, secondary, and higher education. 3 Social Justice Leadership (3 courses) Course Course Title Credit ELHE 7707 Leadership for Social Justice 3 ELHE 7712 School Leadership for Emergent Bilinguals 3 ELHE 7704 Ethics and Equity in Education 3 Final Reflection Course Course Course Title Credit ELHE Reflection on Leadership Seminar 3 Certificate in Educational Policy Development The Certificate in Educational Policy Development equips current and aspiring leaders in schools and community-based organizations to leverage dramatic organizational change. Through a series of four courses, participants develop a sophisticated appreciation of how policies shape the cultural norms and day-to-day practices at both a micro level (e.g., within institutions) and a macro level (e.g., within a school district, a city, or a state). The goal of the program is to help leaders develop their repertoire of skills to use policy levers to creatively and effectively advance organizational goals. Core (6 courses) Course Course Title Credit ELHE 7701 Introduction to Educational Leadership and Change Brings a foundational focus to the work of educational administration, centering on the core work of teaching and learning and exploring how that central work is supported by the cultural, technical, political, and ethical systems of the school. 3 ELHE 7726 Organizational Theory and Learning Rather than focusing on traits of the individual leader, this course focuses on the dimensions of organizations and teams that both facilitate and complicate leadership. Examples include managing conflict, developing a shared vision, and differentiating between technical and adaptive change. 3 ELHE 7727 Family and Community Engagement This course will explore the theory and practice of family-school-community relationships with a particular focus on the role of school leaders in enacting organizational models, educational programs, and political strategies designed to increase authentic parent and community participation in schools and other educational organizations. 3 ELHE 7708 Instructional Leadership Introduces students to many of the contested issues in the field of supervision, such as the relationship between supervision and teacher development, teacher empowerment, teacher alienation, learning theories, school effectiveness, school restructuring, curriculum development, and scientific management. 3 ELHE 7711 Using Data and Evidence for School Improvement This course prepares leaders to manage initiatives around continuous improvement and data-informed inquiry. On one hand, students will develop basic research skills that will contribute to evidence-based school improvement, including action research. On the other hand, students will explore the landscape of supports and barriers to using data and other evidence effectively in schools. 3 ELHE 7103 Educational Law and Public Policy This course addresses the political and legal aspects of the role of education in our democratic society. Provides an introductory survey of public policy issues and laws governing preschool, elementary, secondary, and higher education. 3 Educational Policy Development (3 courses) Two required courses Course Course Title Credit ELHE Educational Policy Development 3 ELHE 7609 Law and Educational Reform 3 Choose 1 of these courses Course Course Title Credit ELHE 7707 Leadership for Social Justice 3 ELHE 7712 School Leadership for Emergent Bilinguals 3 Final Reflection Course Course Course Title Credit ELHE Reflection on Leadership Seminar 3 Careers Explore the outcomes below to learn about the career destinations of our recent alumni including graduates of the Class of 2020 and 2021. Roles Program Support Coordinator Dean of New Faculty Director of Identity & Mission Professor at the School of Education Associate Director of Admission Language Specialist Director of Campus Ministry Kindergarten Teacher Master Teacher Corporate Banking Trainee Organizations Chamberlain International School Thayer Academy The Derryfield School Bridge Boston Newton Country Day School of the Sacred Heart Trinity Catholic Academy Colby College Match Education WSFS Bank Boston College High School Financial Aid Education should level the playing field. We feel the same way about financial aid. The Lynch School of Education and Human Development provides more than $8.4 million in financial aid to students each year. As a result, the quality of Boston College’s instruction, the benefit of our alumni network, and the impact a Boston College degree will have on your employment options is both affordable and invaluable. More About Financial Aid Faculty Fulfilling our social justice mission, our internationally recognized Educational Leadership and Higher Education faculty develop agents of cultural change—reflective practitioners committed to making schools more equitable. Our team integrates interdisciplinary theory with the most current evidence-based practices. View More View Less View More View Less Apply Print Bachelor's degree required The GRE is accepted, but not required 2+ years of professional experience in an educational setting is preferred Application & Deadlines Apply Now A non-refundable application fee of $75 is waived for all 2022-2023 entrance terms. Deadlines Fall Preferred Decision —5/16 Regular Decision — 6/21 Rolling Admission — Until 7/18 Courses Begin — 8/29 Resume To be uploaded to your online Application Form In addition to your academic history and relevant work experience, please include any licenses currently held, any experiences related to global education or global citizenship, any language skills other than English, and any research experience or publications. Please include educational experiences that occurred in Pre-K to 12th grade classrooms, after school programs, community-based programs, or adult education settings. Personal Statement To be uploaded to your online Application Form. In 1,000-1,500 words, describe your academic and professional goals, any experience relevant to this program*, your future plans, expectations, and aspirations. *such as applying a global perspective to teaching, learning, curriculum, or international teaching and learning experiences Letters of Recommendation Identification of recommenders/instructions to recommenders are outlined in the online Application Form Two letters of recommendation are required with at least one required from an academic source. Applicants may submit one additional recommendation of their choice. Transcripts Unofficial transcripts will be accepted in lieu of official transcripts for the application review process. In the event that one is admitted into a program and enrolls, our office will need official transcripts prior to course registration. To expedite application processing times, our office encourages you to send unofficial transcripts electronically to our email address at GSOE@BC.EDU. Please note that unofficial transcripts must include all of the following items: Course titles and grades for each course Year and entry term for each of the courses listed Translated into English by certified translation agent (if not already in English) Original and translated transcripts must be provided If you are able to secure official transcripts, please note the following: An official postsecondary transcript must be printed on official institutional paper and include at least one of the following: an institutional watermark, the registrar’s signature, or the registrar's seal. Copies and unofficial transcripts sent directly from applicants are not acceptable, the transcript must come directly from the institution. If you are a current student and have not completed your undergraduate and/or graduate degree, the most updated version of your transcript is acceptable. Official electronic transcripts are accepted when sent directly to gsoe@bc.edu from the institution. When requesting electronic transcripts, you must manually type in gsoe@bc.edu to ensure it is received by our office. Mailed transcript(s) should be sent to the following address: Lynch Office of Graduate Admissions, Boston College Campion Hall 135 140 Commonwealth Avenue Chestnut Hill, MA 02467 Standardized Tests You may submit GRE scores, but applicants are not required to do so. For more information about the GRE exam, including test dates and testing sites, visit https://www.ets.org/gre. Lynch School of Education and Human Development GRE Code: 3218 International Students International applicants are encouraged to apply to the Lynch School of Education and Human Development. Requirements for International Students Application FAQs How many courses are required for this program? This program consists of 12 courses for a total of 30 credits. How long does this program take to complete? Most students complete this program within two years. Do you offer graduate course credit transfer? Up to six credits or two courses may be accepted as transfer credit. Potential transfer credits are reviewed after admission into the program. How much does this program cost? Read about tuition, fees, scholarships, and other funding opportunities on the tuition and aid webpage. Do you offer financial aid? The Lynch School is committed to helping students understand how affordable an excellent graduate education can be. We offer U.S. citizens and permanent residents access to U.S. federal financial aid and all students are considered for scholarship aid. Your application for admission serves as your scholarship application. To learn more, please visit our tuition and aid webpage. Is the GRE required for admission to this program? The GRE is accepted, but is not required. Who can I contact if I have additional questions or wish to learn more about this program? Our online graduate admissions team is here to help. For questions about this program or the application process, contact our online graduate admissions team by filling out the form here. Quick Links Facts & Figures Faculty Why LSEHD? Diversity, Equity, Inclusion, & Justice Tuition & Aid Department ELHE Educational Leadership & Higher Education Contact Us gsoe@bc.edu 617-552-4214 Back To Top Back To Top Carolyn A. and Peter S. Lynch School of Education and Human Development Campion Hall 140 Commonwealth Avenue Chestnut Hill, MA 02467 617-552-4200 About Admission Academics Faculty & Research Centers & Initiatives Community Apply Visit Give CONNECT WITH US Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube LinkedIn Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College