Skip to main content Skip to primary site menu Google Tag Manager Search form Search Explore Brown University Search Global Navigation Learn More About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life Find A to Z Index People Directory Information for Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Top Destinations Global Brown Watson Institute Graduate School Alpert Medical School School of Public Health School of Engineering Clinical Psychology Training Home About Internship Postdoctoral Fellowship Alumni Diversity Contact Us Site Navigation Home About Leadership Visiting Providence Internship Internship Applicants: Admissions, Support & Initial Placement Data Internship Recruitment Video Rotations Adult Rotations Child Rotations Health Psychology/Behavioral Medicine Rotations Neuropsychology Rotations Research Placement Program Research Grant Program Didactics Evaluation Applications Interview Information Meet the Clinical Psychology Residents (PDF) Training Manual Postdoctoral Fellowship Postdoctoral Fellowship Applicants Clinical Psychology Program (CPP) Applicants: Postdoctoral Residency Admissions, Support, and Initial Placement Data Clinical Child Psychology Specialty Program (CCPSP) Applicants: Postdoctoral Residency Admissions, Support, and Initial Placement Data Clinical Neuropsychology Specialty Program (CNSP) Applicants: Postdoctoral Residency Admissions, Support, and Initial Placement Data Research Fellowship Program (RFP) Applicants NIH-Funded T32 Training Grants Cardiovascular T32 Child T32 HIV T32 STAR T32 Suicide Research T32 NIH Support Didactics Evaluation Support Eligibility Available Fellowships Application Meet the Postdoctoral Fellows (PDF) Training Manual Alumni Alumni Directory (PDF) Facebook Group Recent Graduates Diversity Contact Us Slideshow Partial About Us The Clinical Psychology Programs at Brown offers broad-based training experiences in a variety of settings. Learn More Nick Tarantino, PhD Watch: Program alumnus describes how Brown's clinical psychology programs prepare trainees to be leaders in the field. Learn more Clinical Psychology Training Programs at Brown: A Consortium of the Providence VA Medical Center, Lifespan, and Care New England INFORMATION ON COVID-19 GUIDELINES FOR 2021-2022 The Clinical Psychology Training Programs at Brown began in 1975 as a joint effort through Butler Hospital and the Providence VA Medical Center. The training programs function as a consortium and is now composed of eight training sites including: Butler Hospital, the Providence VA Medical Center, E.P. Bradley Hospital, The Miriam Hospital, Rhode Island Hospital, Women & Infants Hospital, Lifespan School Solutions, and Brown University. Each of these training sites is administratively independent, but each site contributes faculty, financial support, and other resources to the Clinical Psychology Training Programs. Each site has a minimum of two appropriately trained and experienced psychologists who have input into the governance and policies of the training programs. Elizabeth McQuaid, PhD, ABPP is Director of the Division of Clinical Psychology and and provides oversight of the Clinical Psychology Training Programs at Brown.. Training Programs The Clinical Psychology Internship Training Program provides training at the predoctoral level for students interested in careers relevant to clinical science, research, and practice. The overall training philosophy of the program reflects a commitment to the development of psychologists who will apply scientific knowledge to human behavior in clinical practice and who will advance clinical science research. The Director of Training is Lauren Weinstock, PhD. The Postdoctoral Fellowship Training Program (PFTP) has four Divisions. Elissa Jelalian, PhD provides oversight over all postdoctoral training within the Consortium. The PFTP includes: The APA-accredited Clinical Psychology Program (CPP) provides general training in clinical psychology (Traditional Practice Program) within a hospital-based setting. This program offers emphasis areas in Adult, Child (CCPSP), and Health Psychology/Behavioral Medicine. Postdoctoral fellows who have completed the one-year APA-accredited program may elect to stay a second year for additional clinical/research training. (Karen Oliver, PhD, Director) The Clinical Child Psychology Specialty Program (CCPSP) provides training in clinical child psychology within hospital-based, school, and forensic settings. The CCPSP is currently part of the APA-accredited CPP. In the fall of 2020, The CCPSP submitted its self-study for APA-accreditation as a new specialty program in clinical child psychology. Postdoctoral fellows who have completed the one-year APA-accredited program may elect to stay a second year for additional clinical/research training. (Christopher Houck, PhD, Director) The Clinical Neuropsychology Specialty Program (CNSP) provides training in clinical neuropsychology within a hospital-based setting that is consistent with Houston Conference Guidelines. The CNSP was formerly the Neuropsychology Track within the CPP. As of October 28, 2018, the CNSP is “accredited, on contingency” as a new specialty program in clinical neuropsychology by the American Psychological Association (APA). In accordance with APA guidelines, the CNSP is eligible for full accreditation status after submitting trainee outcome data on or before September 01, 2022 to APA for review. Current and incoming CNSP postdoctoral fellows complete two years of accredited training in the CNSP program. (Stephen Correia, PhD, ABPP-CN, Director and Jennifer Davis, PhD, ABPP-CN, Associate Director) The postdoctoral Research Fellowship Program (RFP) provides postdoctoral research training for individuals from various disciplines related to behavioral science. These primarily research focused fellowships are hospital-based fellowships funded by individual faculty research grants or NIH T32/F32 Training Grants. This program offers emphasis areas in Adult, Child, Health Psychology/Behavioral Medicine, and Neuropsychology. (Elissa Jelalian, PhD, Director and Jennifer Freeman, PhD, Associate Director) Additionally, visit the Center for Alcohol and Addiction Studies for details on training programs within the School of Public Health: Alcohol Intervention/Treatment Outcome Research Substance Abuse Intervention Outcome Research The Clinical Psychology Training Programs at Brown is a member of the Internship and Postdoctoral Programs in Professional Psychology (APPIC) and the Academy of Psychological Clinical Science (APCS). Accreditation The Clinical Psychology Internship Training Program and Clinical Postdoctoral Programs (CPP) within the Traditional Practice Program are accredited by: American Psychological Association 750 First Street NE, Washington, DC 20002-4242 Phone: 202-336-5979 www.apa.org/ed/accreditation/ The Clinical Neuropsychology Specialty Program (CNSP) is “accredited, on contingency” as a new specialty program in clinical neuropsychology by the American Psychological Association (APA). In accordance with APA guidelines, the CNSP is eligible for full accreditation status after submitting trainee outcome data on or before September 01, 2022, to APA for review. The Clinical Child Psychology Specialty Program (CCPSP) is in the process of applying for APA specialty accreditation in child psychology. The CCPSP is currently part of the APA-accredited CPP. Division of Clinical Psychology Division of Clinical Psychology Brown University Box G-BH Butler Hospital Providence, RI 02912 Phone: 401-444-1929 Fax: 401-444-1911 Twitter Twitter Facebook Facebook Instagram Instagram Brown University Giving to Brown Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA 401-863-1000 Contact Us Maps Directions Career Opportunities Campus Safety Accessibility All Social Media © 2022 Brown University | Back to top