Skip to content Clemson University Clemson University Search Menu Close Sorry, your browser does not support inline SVG. Sorry, your browser does not support inline SVG. Apply Giving News Resources for Students Faculty & Staff Parents Alumni Clemson University Academics Forward Arrow Back Arrow Back Academics Home Employment Opportunities Apply for Admission Colleges College of Agriculture, Forestry and Life Sciences College of Architecture, Arts and Humanities College of Behavioral, Social and Health Sciences Wilbur O. and Ann Powers College of Business College of Education College of Engineering, Computing and Applied Sciences College of Science Graduate School Academic Resources Academic Calendar Registrar Division of Undergraduate Studies Center for Career and Professional Development Academic Success Center GRAD 360° Libraries Outside the Classroom PEER/WISE Call Me MISTER® Creative Inquiry and Undergraduate Research Cooperative Education University Professional Internship and Co-op Program (UPIC) Study Abroad Admissions Forward Arrow Back Arrow Back Admissions Home Schedule a Tour Apply for Admission Applying to Clemson First-Year Undergraduate Transfer Undergraduate International Undergraduate Graduate Students Academic Opportunities Majors Graduate Programs Online Graduate Programs Scholar Programs Paths to Graduate School Honors College Experiential Learning Financial Aid Tuition and Fee Calculator Undergraduate Financial Aid Graduate Fellowships and Awards Residency Requirements Campus Life Forward Arrow Back Arrow Back Campus Life Home Club Sports Brooks Center for the Performing Arts Join Your Clemson Family Finding Your Community Living-Learning Communities Student Veterans Multicultural Programs FIRST Army ROTC Air Force ROTC Services On Campus Housing & Dining Campus Recreation Parking and Transportation Student Health Services TigerOne Card Services Clemson Athletics Get Involved Clubs and Organizations Fraternity and Sorority Life Orientation Ambassadors Tiger Media Graduate Student Government Undergraduate Student Government Research Forward Arrow Back Arrow Back Research Home Clemson University Research Foundation (CURF) Division of Research Research Opportunities Student Research at Clemson Creative Inquiry Research Facilities Postdoctoral Affairs Serving South Carolina Through Research School of Health Research Public Service and Agriculture Clemson Experimental Forest Clemson Extension Clemson Research and Education Centers Public Service and Agriculture Research Farm Services Innovation and Economic Development Corporate Partnerships and Strategic Initiatives Clemson University International Center for Automotive Research (CU-ICAR) Clemson University Restoration Institute (CURI) Clemson University Biomedical Engineering Innovation Campus (CUBEInC) Center for Human Genetics Innovation Campus and Technology Park About Clemson Forward Arrow Back Arrow Back About Clemson Home Clemson News Clemson Athletics For Tigers Applying to Clemson Working at Clemson Traditions Military Heritage Things To Do in Clemson Visit Clemson Campus Resources Employment Opportunities Home and Garden Information Center Brand Guidelines CCIT Academic Calendar Training ClemsonForward Campus Leadership Board of Trustees President Academic Affairs and Provost Inclusion and Equity Student Affairs Faculty Senate Staff Senate Search Resources for Current Students Parents Faculty & Staff Alumni COVID-19 Ongoing Operations Forward Arrow Ongoing Operations Living and Learning on Campus Working on Campus Visiting Campus Prospective and Admitted Students COVID-19 Research Back Arrow Back Medical Guidance Forward Arrow Medical Guidance If You're Sick If You Test Positive If You're Exposed Back Arrow Back Vaccine Information COVID-19 Testing Forward Arrow COVID-19 Testing COVID-19 Dashboard Wastewater Dashboard Testing Data For Research Back Arrow Back FAQs Current Updates Apply Giving News Sikes Hall Icon Main Menu Forward Arrow Icon Back Arrow Icon Back Clemson University Academics Academics Home Employment Opportunities Apply for Admission Colleges College of Agriculture, Forestry and Life Sciences College of Architecture, Arts and Humanities College of Behavioral, Social and Health Sciences Wilbur O. and Ann Powers College of Business College of Education College of Engineering, Computing and Applied Sciences College of Science Graduate School Academic Resources Academic Calendar Registrar Division of Undergraduate Studies Center for Career and Professional Development Academic Success Center GRAD 360° Libraries Outside the Classroom PEER/WISE Call Me MISTER® Creative Inquiry and Undergraduate Research Cooperative Education University Professional Internship and Co-op Program (UPIC) Study Abroad Admissions Admissions Home Schedule a Tour Apply for Admission Applying to Clemson First-Year Undergraduate Transfer Undergraduate International Undergraduate Graduate Students Academic Opportunities Majors Graduate Programs Online Graduate Programs Scholar Programs Paths to Graduate School Honors College Experiential Learning Financial Aid Tuition and Fee Calculator Undergraduate Financial Aid Graduate Fellowships and Awards Residency Requirements Campus Life Campus Life Home Club Sports Brooks Center for the Performing Arts Join Your Clemson Family Finding Your Community Living-Learning Communities Student Veterans Multicultural Programs FIRST Army ROTC Air Force ROTC Services On Campus Housing & Dining Campus Recreation Parking and Transportation Student Health Services TigerOne Card Services Clemson Athletics Get Involved Clubs and Organizations Fraternity and Sorority Life Orientation Ambassadors Tiger Media Graduate Student Government Undergraduate Student Government Research Research Home Clemson University Research Foundation (CURF) Division of Research Research Opportunities Student Research at Clemson Creative Inquiry Research Facilities Postdoctoral Affairs Serving South Carolina Through Research School of Health Research Public Service and Agriculture Clemson Experimental Forest Clemson Extension Clemson Research and Education Centers Public Service and Agriculture Research Farm Services Innovation and Economic Development Corporate Partnerships and Strategic Initiatives Clemson University International Center for Automotive Research (CU-ICAR) Clemson University Restoration Institute (CURI) Clemson University Biomedical Engineering Innovation Campus (CUBEInC) Center for Human Genetics Innovation Campus and Technology Park About Clemson About Clemson Home Clemson News Clemson Athletics For Tigers Applying to Clemson Working at Clemson Traditions Military Heritage Things To Do in Clemson Visit Clemson Campus Resources Employment Opportunities Home and Garden Information Center Brand Guidelines CCIT Academic Calendar Training ClemsonForward Campus Leadership Board of Trustees President Academic Affairs and Provost Inclusion and Equity Student Affairs Faculty Senate Staff Senate Search close COVID-19 Ongoing Operations show submenu for Ongoing Operations Living and Learning on Campus Working on Campus Visiting Campus Prospective and Admitted Students COVID-19 Research Medical Guidance show submenu for Medical Guidance If You're Sick If You Test Positive If You're Exposed Vaccine Information COVID-19 Testing show submenu for COVID-19 Testing COVID-19 Dashboard Wastewater Dashboard Testing Data For Research FAQs Current Updates Clemson Home COVID-19 Medical Guidance Current: If You're Exposed If You're Exposed to COVID-19 You may only receive notification of exposure from an individual with whom you have had close contact, rather than a contact tracer. Individuals are considered to be exposed, and considered to be a close contact if they were less than 6 feet away from an infected person (laboratory-confirmed or a clinical diagnosis) for a cumulative total of 15 minutes or more over a 24-hour period (for example, three individual 5-minute exposures for a total of 15 minutes). The date of your last exposure is considered day 0. All University Students, Faculty and Staff How Your Quarantine Eligibility is Determined Because your quarantine protocols are determined based on your prior positive tests and all currently uploaded and accepted vaccine doses, to include boosters, you are encouraged to voluntarily upload all vaccine doses at the University’s COVID-19 Vaccine Upload Tool. Special Note: For individuals who have received all recommended vaccine doses, to include boosters and choose not to upload vaccine record, Clemson University will ask you to quarantine and follow the same guidelines as unvaccinated individuals. Should you quarantine? Make sure all your vaccine doses are uploaded and approved in the COVID-19 Upload tool, and fill out the COVID-19 Self Assessment. COVID-19 Self Assessment If you have not received all recommended vaccine doses, to include boosters AND have not tested positive for COVID-19 within the last 90 days: Quarantine (stay home and away from other people, do not travel, etc.) for the appropriate amount of time: If you remain asymptomatic during this quarantine: Quarantine at least five days (day 0 through day 5) after being exposed to a known positive case of COVID-19. The earliest potential date of return to University facilities is day 6. You will be allowed to exit quarantine following satisfactory completion of the Exit Survey as described below. The CDC recommends testing at least five days after you last had close contact with someone with COVID-19. You should wear a well-fitting mask for an additional five days when around others following quarantine. If you develop symptoms: Get tested immediately and isolate while awaiting your test results. If you test positive, follow CDC guidance and the information on the If You Test Positive for COVID-19 If you test negative but remain symptomatic, consult with a health care professional. Exit Survey: Monitor your phone and University email address for an Exit Survey required to be completed to exit quarantine. Completing this survey in a timely manner is critical to completing your quarantine on schedule and having your campus access reinstated. Clearance for return to campuses is required as your card access to non-residential buildings will be turned off until your clearance is restored. Be sure to pay close attention to your University email and phone calls for instructions and the clearance process. Before returning to campus facilities, verify that your COVID-19 Clearance Status is “Cleared.” For 10 days after your last close contact with someone with COVID-19, watch for fever (100.4°F or greater), cough, shortness of breath, or other COVID-19 symptoms as indicated in the University’s Self-Assessment Tool. If you develop symptoms, get tested immediately and isolate until you receive your test results. If you test positive, follow CDC guidance and the information on the If You Test Positive for COVID-19 page. If you have received all recommended vaccine doses, to include boosters, and have uploaded proper documentation of vaccination through the voluntary upload tool, or if you have tested positive for COVID-19 within the last 90 days: If you are asymptomatic, you are not required to physically quarantine after being exposed to a known positive case. You should wear a well-fitting mask when around others for ten days after exposure. If asymptomatic and you have not tested positive for COVID-19 in the last 90-days, the CDC recommends testing 5 days after exposure. If you develop symptoms: Get tested immediately and isolate while awaiting your test results. If you test positive, follow CDC guidance and the information on the If You Test Positive for COVID-19 If you test negative but remain symptomatic, consult with a health care professional. Special Note: For individuals who have received all recommended vaccine doses, to include boosters and choose not to upload vaccine record, Clemson University will ask you to quarantine and follow the same guidelines as unvaccinated individuals. If you have any special medical concerns not covered in this guidance, please contact the University’s COVID-19 Information Line at 864-656-3571. Students You may receive a call or email from a friend, family member, colleague or a contact tracer to inform you you’ve been exposed. If you are notified by someone other than a Clemson University contact tracer, please self-identify your exposure via the University’s Self-Assessment Tool. If you are required to quarantine, based on the information above: Residential Students You should go home, or to another arrangement, and avoid using public transportation to do so. If you are unable to depart campus immediately, you must contact Clemson Home Monday-Friday between 10 a.m. and 6 p.m. by texting 864-280-9891. Continue to avoid others and wear a well-fitting mask. Review Housing’s Isolation and Quarantine Checklistto help ensure you pack all the items you’ll need. Do not return to campus until you are cleared to do so, following the instructions above. Students Living Off-Campus You will be able to quarantine in your living space if appropriate. You should quarantine in a private space without your roommates. This means you should have a private bed and bath and not access any shared spaces during quarantine. It is recommended you use contactless food delivery to your door if necessary. Do not return to campus until you are cleared to do so, following the instructions above. Campus Resources Visit Clemson University’s COVID-19 Resources for more information about COVID-19 and Isolation & Quarantine protocols. You should complete a Notification of Absence (or NOA for short) to provide a general notification to your professors about an absence from class. You will also need to contact each professor individually to inquire about accessing coursework or making up missed work for a specific course. The Academic Success Center provides a checklist for keeping up with your coursework while in isolation or quarantine. Bridge to Clemson students should contact their instructors regarding assignments. Redfern Health Center Medical Services can assist with medical care, health insurance, pharmacy, your medical records, or any other medical or health related question. If you need to seek medical care, please consider the following: MUSC provides Virtual Urgent Care services accessible 24/7. Call your health care provider before going to their office and inform them of your COVID-19 diagnosis. For local after-hours care, visit "Emergency/In Crisis" resources. If emergency medical treatment is required for any condition, call 911. Tell the 911 operator and the emergency crew that you are in isolation due to COVID-19. Contact the Redfern Health Center COVID-19 Information Line: 864-656-3571. After hours line for nurse triage: 855-771-6077. This can be a very stressful time. For personal support, Counseling and Psychological Services (CAPS) is available to you. During business hours, students can call the main number and ask to speak to a counselor. It is important to share with the person answering the phone if you are in any acute or imminent distress. If it is after hours and a psychological emergency, call CAPS on-call via the CUPD dispatch at 864-656-2222. For consultations, community referrals, or additional questions, the main number is 864-656-2451. Additionally, CAPS has COVID-19 Resources for Mental Health and Well-being that can be accessed anytime. Employees You may receive a call or email from a friend, family member, colleague or a contact tracer to inform you you’ve been exposed. If you are notified by someone other than a Clemson University contact tracer, please do the following: Self-identify your exposure via the University’s Self-Assessment Tool. Notify your supervisor. Clemson University Facebook Instagram Twitter Linkedin Youtube Tiktok Policy/Terms of Use Web Accessibility Ethics/Safety Hotline Privacy Policy Copyright © 2022 Clemson University • Clemson, South Carolina 29634 Clemson University Facebook Instagram Twitter Linkedin Youtube Tiktok Resources A-Z Index Campus Map CU Safety Directory Webcams Apply to Clemson