By continuing to use this site, you agree to the use of cookies in accordance with our privacy policy. Dismiss Stay Safe The official source of public health information for Syracuse University. Skip to Content Open menu About Admissions Academics Life Athletics More Search the University Open search Popular searches Close menu Home About Toggle dropdown Leadership Vision & Mission Consumer Information Facts & Figures Plan Your Visit Campus Map History News Partnerships Work at Syracuse Social Media Bookstore Brand Help & Contacts Admissions Toggle dropdown Undergraduate Graduate Online Part-Time Cost & Aid Request Information Visit & Tour Apply Academics Toggle dropdown Schools & Colleges Undergraduate Majors & Minors Graduate Degrees Online Programs Syracuse University Global Study Abroad Opportunities & Support Calendars Departments Research Centers & Institutes Libraries, Collections & Galleries Academic Administration Life Toggle dropdown Accessibility & Diversity Campus Highlights Events Calendar Services & Support Meals & Dining Housing Groups & Activities Recreation & Facilities For Students For Veterans & Military For Faculty & Staff For Parents & Families A-Z Index Sitemap Login Athletics Men’s Sports Toggle dropdown Basketball Cross Country Football Lacrosse Rowing Soccer Track and Field Women’s Sports Toggle dropdown Basketball Cross Country Field Hockey Ice Hockey Lacrosse Rowing Soccer Softball Tennis Track and Field Volleyball Athletics Dept. Toggle dropdown Facilities Staff Directory Academic Honors Community Service Spirit Program Varsity Club Sports Medicine Championships Fan Zone Toggle dropdown Dome Schedule Seating Information Orange All Access Otto’s Kids Club Game Photos Promotions Orange Club Schedules News Alumni About Toggle dropdown Notable Alumni Alumni Association Awards News Events and Clubs Toggle dropdown Orange Central Northeast Midwest South West World/Affinity Regions Toggle dropdown Atlanta Boston Chicago Los Angeles Middle East New York San Francisco Washington, DC Services Toggle dropdown Career Network Generation Orange Directory Profile Class Notes Giving Contact Contact Visit Apply Coronavirus Updates Forever Orange Home Life Services & Support Safety & Security More from this Section Writing & Tutoring Technology Financial Literacy Career Counseling & Support Health and Wellness Safety and Security We are dedicated to maintaining an environment where you feel at home. A big part of that is making sure you are safe and feel comfortable, wherever you are. The Department of Public Safety brings together a police force, Students for Community Safety, Fire and Life Services, and emergency management to ensure that the Syracuse Community is a safe place to live and learn. Connect with DPS DPS's goal is to create a safe and secure living, learning, social, and cultural environment. In addition to on-and off-campus patrols, DPS supports community safety through: A blue light emergency phone system installed across campus The Orange ALERT crisis notification system Shuttle and walking escorts Partnering with local authorities to share information, collaborate on crime prevention, and respond to community needs Every residence hall on campus has security aides on duty day and night, secured entrances, and video security cameras. All visitors must check-in at the front desk, and overnight guests must be registered in advance. Off campus, DPS partners with the City of Syracuse Police on neighborhood safety patrols. Our proximity to the VA Hospital, SUNY Upstate Medical University, SUNY College of Environmental Science and Forestry, and the Syracuse Police Department makes us accessible to multiple emergency response resources. In short, our campus is one of the safest places you can be. Contact DPS with your questions about campus safety; they will be happy to share more information and answer your questions. And be sure to download the Rave Guardian app . It enables you to communicate with DPS, share your location in the event of an emergency, and let your friends know you've safely made it home. Related Pages Campus Status Your resource for changes to normal operating conditions at Syracuse University. Emergency Guide Follow these basic procedures in emergency situations at Syracuse University. Crime Prevention The Crime Prevention team offers a variety of Safety Workshops and presentations. Safety Escort Program When the buses are not available, DPS staff will provide a walking or riding safety escort to students, faculty, and staff. Popular Toggle dropdown Academic Calendar Campus Map Careers Libraries Majors and Minors Visit and Tour A-Z Toggle dropdown Academic Departments Schools and Colleges Sitemap Search Contact Toggle dropdown Admissions Financial Aid Emergency Contacts Human Resources Make a Gift Login Toggle dropdown MySlice Blackboard SUMail Syracuse University 900 South Crouse Ave. Syracuse, NY 13244 Phone: +1.315.443.1870 Follow S.U. on Instagram Like S.U. on Facebook Follow S.U. on Twitter Follow S.U. on LinkedIn Follow S.U. on Tiktok Subscribe to S.U. on YouTube © Syracuse University. Knowledge crowns those who seek her. Accessibility Accreditation Emergencies Privacy