Check here for up-to-date information on the Gutman Library 2nd floor renovation project! Skip to main content Information For: Current Students Alumni Harvard Undergraduates Educators Recruiters Media Apply Give to HGSE Search Apply for Degree Programs Apply for Professional Education Donate Give back to HGSE and support the next generation of passionate educators and innovative leaders. Keywords Close Menu Degree Programs Professional Education Faculty & Research Usable Knowledge Keywords About HGSE About the Dean Dean's Welcome Messages from the Dean Commentary and Media Dean's Office History of HGSE Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Our Impact Campus and Facilities Office Directory Virtual Tour Gutman Conference Center Reservation Request Form Capacities and Cost Floor Plan Catering Policies Audio Visual Directions, Parking, and Hotels Map of HGSE Directions to HGSE History of HGSE Buildings Faculty & Staff Directory Work at HGSE Title IX Information Doctoral Degree Programs Doctor of Education Leadership Doctor of Philosophy in Education Brochures Academic Calendar Academic Catalog Doctoral Viewbook Master's Degree Program Master's in Education Programs Education Leadership, Organizations, and Entrepreneurship Education Policy and Analysis Human Development and Education Learning Design, Innovation, and Technology Teaching and Teacher Leadership Concentrations Arts and Learning Early Childhood Global, International, and Comparative Education Higher Education Identity, Power, and Justice in Education Literacy and Languages A Personalized Approach Online Master's in Education Leadership Foundations Brochures Academic Catalog Academic Calendar Academic Year 2020-22 Programs Professional Education About Us Programs Early Childhood K-12 Higher Education Online Programs For Organizations Group and Team Enrollment Custom Programs Admissions Payment & Tuition Assistance Refunds & Withdrawals Policies and Accessibility Campus Experience On-Campus Program Health and Safety Policies FAQs Events Contact Faculty & Research Faculty Directory Centers, Projects and Initiatives Faculty Recruitment Faculty Experts Admissions Introduce Yourself Explore Find the Right Program Brochures Life at HGSE Connect Apply Refer a Candidate Frequently Asked Questions Financial Aid HGSE & Harvard University Consumer Information Tuition & Costs Applying for Aid Incoming Students Incoming International Students Continuing Students Scholarships, Fellowships & Grants Need-Based Grant Awards HGSE Fellowships Additional Fellowships External Fellowships Student Loans Student Work International Students International Applicant FAQ Funding Sources Students with Families Financial Aid Appeals Presentations & Publications Budgeting & Financial Literacy Budget Calculator Registrar News & Events Harvard Edcast Education Now Askwith Education Forum Upcoming Events Submit an Event Usable Knowledge Ed. Magazine Harvard Education Publishing Group Information for Media Education Now Usable Knowledge Usable Knowledge Harvard EdCast Ed. Magazine HGSE Centennial Community Learning Beyond the Classroom Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Organizations and Initiatives Community Events and Action Resources Teaching and Learning Gutman Library Services Alumni Services Collections Special Collections Request for Library Purchase Library Hours Websites for Educators About the Library Facilities & Equipment Contact Information Coronavirus Response Information Directory Calendar Alumni Network & Connect Get Involved Learn & Grow Benefits & Services my.harvard Student Handbook Introduction Welcome to HGSE Preface Commitment to Diversity Part 1: Enrollment Policies Academic Programs and Affiliations Registration and Enrollment Policies Tuition and Fees Financial Aid Student Health Insurance Grading Part 2: Student Supports Advising HGSE Supports University Supports Campus Safety and Security Part 3: Program Policies Academic Governance Doctor of Education (Ed.D.) Program Policies Doctor of Philosophy in Education (Ph.D.) Program Policies Doctor of Education Leadership (Ed.L.D.) Program Policies Master of Education (Ed.M.) Program Policies Part 4: Academic Integrity and Standards of Conduct Resolution on Rights and Responsibilities Academic Standards and Integrity Standards of Conduct in the Harvard Community Committee on Rights and Responsibilities Policies on Harassment and Discrimination Policy on Consensual Romantic Relationships Policy on Physical Violence Policy on Misrepresentation of Status Policy on Illicit Substances Policy on Hazing Policy on Threats Part 5: Copyright and Publishing Policies Copyright Disclosure Use of the Harvard Name Information For Current Students Alumni Harvard Undergraduates Educators Recruiters Media Connect with HGSE Facebook Twitter Linked In LinkedIn Symbols Created with Sketch. Instagram Gutman Library Services for Persons with Disabilities Monroe C. Gutman Library is committed to making its collections, services, and programs available to all users. Library staff will make every reasonable effort to assist patrons with special needs. To inquire about services available or to give advance notice of special needs, contact Access Services at 617-495-3423 or circulation@gse.harvard.edu. HGSE students who may need specialized assistance should contact the Office of Student Affairs to arrange coordination of services with the library and Information Technology. We recognize that each student's accessibility needs are unique and we will work together to provide reasonable accommodation to students. Gutman Library Services and Facilities Entrances Gutman Library is wheelchair-accessible. The building and lobby entrance doors have automatic door openers. Two interior elevators service all floors of the building. Materials at Gutman Library Patrons who are unable to retrieve materials from the Gutman Library stacks may request assistance from the Circulation Desk by contacting Access Services at 617-495-3423 or circulation@gse.harvard.edu. We advise patrons to contact Access Services in advance to page books. Use HOLLIS to search for titles and determine availability of items. Materials at other Harvard Libraries All patrons with a Harvard ID may use the Request feature in HOLLIS to ask for books to be delivered to any library they select. If only an article, book chapter, or no more than 10% of a work is needed, Harvard ID holders may use the Scan and Deliver feature in HOLLIS to have an article or excerpt of a work delivered electronically. Please allow four days for Scan and Deliver requests. Materials not held at any Harvard University Library HGSE students, staff and faculty may request items not held in the Harvard Library system through Borrow Direct or interlibrary loan. Research Services Drop-in research help: Monday - Friday from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. Ask to speak to a research librarian at the main desk on the library second floor or call 617-495-3421. Online help: Ask Us @ Gutman Library Research appointments: patrons may make an appointment with a Research Librarian to discuss their research needs and for assistance conducting database searches. Appointments are scheduled weekdays from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. To make an appointment, use the Request an Appointment Form or call 617-495-3421. Please provide information about any special requirements when scheduling an appointment. Restrooms Accessible restrooms are available on all floors. Workstations and equipment Wheelchair accessible workstations are available. Wireless networking is available throughout the building. Use these instructions for wireless connection. Additional facilities and equipment Other HGSE Resources Contact the Office of Student Affairs for information on programs and support services. Harvard Library Resources Contact Harvard Library for accessibility information at other Harvard libraries. In this section Gutman Library Services Alumni Services Collections Special Collections Request for Library Purchase Library Hours Websites for Educators About the Library Facilities & Equipment Contact Information Gutman Library Gutman Library Services Alumni Services Collections Special Collections Request for Library Purchase Library Hours Websites for Educators About the Library Facilities & Equipment Contact Information Sign up for our newsletters to get the latest from the Harvard Graduate School of Education. Sign Up Now Artboard 1 13 Appian Way | Cambridge, MA 02138 Centennial Contact Us Directory Directions Harvard University ©2022 President and Fellows of Harvard College Linked In Symbols Created with Sketch. Youtube RSS Podcast HGSE Publishing Policies & Disclaimers Digital Accessibility Policy Privacy Policy Trademark Notice