COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW Details: Personal Selling, Minor MinorPersonal Selling All Programs W. Frank Barton School of Business Marketing A minor in personal selling from Wichita State's AACSB-accredited Barton School of Business is a great asset for virtually any bachelor's degree, equipping you with knowledge and skills to help you succeed in face-to-face interactions between seller and buyer in diverse career settings. Learn how personal selling is the right fit for you. Request Info Start Your Application Applied learning at Wichita State At Wichita State, applied learning is everything. In fact, every degree we offer has a guaranteed applied learning or research experience built right into it equipping you with the relevant skills and experience to make you workforce ready before graduation. Learn about our innovative approach Admission to the program To take courses in the Barton School of Business, you must first be admitted to Wichita State. For WSU's admission requirements, and to apply, click the link below. Admission requirements Inside the Program State-of-the-art building planned for business school Plans to build a new, state-of-the-art building for the Barton School of Business got a boost with a $1 million donation. Once built, the 136,000-square-foot complex will replace Clinton Hall, constructed in 1970. It will be designed to foster collaboration among students, faculty and partners in the business community, as well as provide students with more internship opportunities. Curriculum The minor is available to business- and non-business majors. To complete it, you'll take 15 credit hours covering marketing, consumer behavior, selling and sales force management, and interpersonal communication. You'll also choose from one upper-division elective base on your interests and career goals. View the curriculum Careers A minor in personal selling from Wichita State can open doors to a wide range of sales careers in a wide array of industries—from banking and business to pharmaceuticals and advertising. Learn more about careers in this field Similar Programs General Business Marketing Operations Management (Minor) 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©