Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. UC News UC News right arrow down arrow UC News Search Topics right arrow down arrow UC Answers #UCtheGood In The News Arts & Culture Science & Tech International Athletics Health College Bound Impact right arrow down arrow #UCtheGood Insights Diversity Experience-Based Learning Next Lives Here Bicentennial COVID-19 Student Experience Colleges right arrow down arrow College of Allied Health Sciences College of Arts & Sciences College of Business Blue Ash College Clermont College College-Conservatory of Music College of Design, Architecture, Art, and Planning College of Education, Criminal Justice, & Human Services College of Engineering and Applied Science Graduate School College of Law College of Medicine College of Nursing College of Pharmacy Units right arrow down arrow Academic Health Center Admissions Alumni Association Board of Trustees Campus Services Equity and Inclusion Hoxworth Human Resources IT@UC Libraries Office of Innovation Office of Research President's Office Provost Public Safety Student Affairs UC Foundation Veteran's Affairs Continuing Education Media Contacts CPS grad finds ‘UC makes dreams come true’ Student shadows physicians, balances studies and sports while still finding time for Marvel’s antics By Cedric Ricks Email CedricEmail Cedric 260-415-8554 May 19, 2022 Share on facebook Share on Twitter Pin Story Print Story Like Benya Coleman never gets tired of the well wishes and she’s still a bit teary-eyed. The newly-minted high school graduate was one of 10 students awarded the University of Cincinnati’s Marian Spencer Scholarship created to recognize high-achieving students in Cincinnati Public Schools (CPS). Coleman, a student at nationally accredited and STEM-certified Hughes STEM High School, was caught by surprise with the announcement at a school gathering earlier this year. “I always hear congratulations from strangers, teachers and co-workers,” says Coleman. “It means a lot to see people in the community showing love. People always tell me how lucky I am and I agree.” Coleman doesn’t bring it up to strangers or even family or friends because she doesn’t want to seem like “I’m bragging and I am not,” says Coleman. “This is just such good news, it’s hard not to share. I think to myself, ‘If they haven’t seen it anywhere then maybe I shouldn’t bring up,’ but if I’m asked about scholarships or what college, I am going to reply with ‘I got a full ride to UC!’” Coleman graduated from Hughes STEM HIgh School Tuesday, May 17, at a ceremony at UC's Fifth Third Arena. She plans to study medical sciences and has been admitted into the UC College of Medicine. Coleman has wanted to be an obstetrician for years. Benya Coleman is shown at Hughes High School during a surprise announcement from UC's Jack Miner, vice president of enrollment, of her full ride to the university. Photo by Andrew Higley/UC Creative + Brand. The Marian Spencer Scholarship is made possible thanks to an investment of $6 million — the result of a gift from UC alumnus and venture capitalist Jim Goetz and university matching funds — and will allow 10 CPS students a year to receive full tuition, room and board scholarships and other opportunities. The first 10 Spencer Scholars will enroll in fall 2022, and by 2023 the program will include at least one student from each of the 18 high schools within CPS. Coleman says the scholarship announcement has just made her work harder in school and not disappoint her family. She is employed at a Cincinnati hospital as part of a school-to-work program. “I enjoy being in a hospital environment,” says Coleman. “It’s very rare to graduate high school with two years of hospital experience in eight different departments.” She also finds time to stay active in sports, playing volleyball and softball and has a weekend job at a restaurant to make extra money. Benya Coleman shown in a classroom at Hughes STEM High School. Photo provided. “I use my free time, whenever I get some, to watch thriller movies and to try and remake foods off of TikTok,” says Colemen. “I also enjoy remaking movie scenes from my favorite movies. I like the movies 'The Book of Life,' 'The Long Kiss Goodnight,' “'Turning Red,' 'The Book of Henry,' 'Dreamgirls' and I love the TV show “'Law and Order.' “I did want to write, direct and act in movies when I was younger,” says Coleman. “I’m also a really big Marvel fan, I can talk about Marvel for hours and rewatch all the movies.” After Coleman’s high school graduation, she plans to continue working during the summer, but also try to find time for some fun before UC classes begin. She’s also excited about the chance to shadow medical professionals at a hospital in New York, attend a wedding in Myrtle Beach, South Carolina, and to get a driver’s license. “I’m so excited to start UC this fall,” says Coleman. “I have nothing but love and thanks to the entire UC community. I don’t think they understand how they have changed my life for the better. UC makes dreams come true.” Benya Coleman is joined by family and supporters at Hughes STEM High School after UC announces she is a Marian Spencer Scholar. Photo by Andrew Higley/UC Creative + Brand. Benya Coleman shown receiving her high school diploma during graduation.. Photo by Andrew Higley/UC Creative + Brand. Benya Coleman shown during her graduation. Photo by Andrew Higley/UC Creative + Brand. Hughes High School Prinicipal Dr. Jennifer Williams congratulates Benya Coleman. Photo by Andrew Higley/UC Creative + Brand. Benya Coleman and her mother react after learning of the Marian Spencer Scholarship. Photo by Andrew Higley/UC Creative + Brand. Become a Bearcat Whether you’re a first-generation student or from a family of Bearcats, UC is proud to support you at every step along your journey. We want to make sure you succeed — and feel right at home. Apply today. Tags Impact College bound Experience-based Learning Student Affairs College of Medicine Student Experience Academic Health Center Diversity Next Lives Here Health Related Stories College of Medicine to participate in national effort to assess... May 31, 2022 College of Medicine joins national effort to improve teaching clinical reasoning skills Local 12 News: ‘It’s changing my life’: Ten students awarded... May 30, 2022 Benya Coleman, a recent graduate of Hughes STEM High School, spoke with Local 12 News reporter Jenna Cisneros about her award of the Marian Spencer Scholarship to attend the University of Cincinnati this fall. Imaging Technology News: First FLASH proton therapy trial... May 27, 2022 The University of Cincinnati's John Breneman, MD, spoke with Imaging Technology News about the completion of enrollment of the FAST-01 trial, the first FLASH proton therapy trial completed in humans. Debug Query for this University of Cincinnati 2600 Clifton Ave. Cincinnati, OH 45220 513-556-0000 UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati University of Cincinnati 2600 Clifton Ave. Cincinnati, OH 45220 513-556-0000 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top