Utah State University sites use cookies. By continuing to use this site you accept our privacy and cookie policy. I agree Skip to content Apply Visit Give Calendar A-Z Index Directory Libraries QUICK LINKS MyUSU SEARCH Close search Search Utah State University: I want to search All USU sites People Search terms Submit search × Open main menu Close Open search About Close About Who we are Meet Utah State Fast Facts Diversity and Inclusion Leadership History and Traditions Notable Alumni Newsroom Utah State Today Utah State Magazine Pressroom USU Experts Locations Visit Campus Statewide Campuses USU Eastern Maps Cache Valley and Utah Information Contact USU Calendars Directory Employment Giving Admission Close Admission Become an Aggie How to Apply Campus Tours Undergraduate Admissions School of Graduate Studies International Admissions Concurrent Enrollment Financial Aid and Cost Tuition and Fees Financial Aid Scholarships Graduate Funding Registration Academic Calendar Online Catalog Dates and Deadlines Tuition and Payment Register for Classes Transcript Requests After Admission New Student Orientation Parent & Family Resources USU 1010: Connections Deferment Notification of Leave Academics Close Academics Overview Learning at Utah State Colleges and Schools Statewide Campuses USU Online Study Abroad Honors Program Majors and Minors Degree Finder Undergraduate Degrees Graduate Degrees Online Degrees Professional and Technical Education Find Help Advising Academic Support Veterans Resources Center Academic Success Programs Disability Resources Center Career Design Center Resources Academic Calendar Academic Catalog Libraries Graduation Campus Life Close Campus Life Student Experience Experience USU Living on Campus Health and Wellness Safety at Utah State Things to do Get Involved Athletics Recreation Arts and Culture Information Events Calendar Clubs and Organizations Student Affairs Resources Aggie Wellness Inclusion Center Involvement Ready Center for Community Engagement Wellness Ready Research Athletics Extension For You Close For You Prospective Students Current Students Parents Faculty and Staff Donors Alumni & Friends Ask USU Quick Links Close Quick Links Apply Visit Give Calendar A-Z Index Directory Libraries MyUSU Cache Valley and Utah Logan is the home of USU’s first campus and has frequently been listed as one of the best college towns in the U.S. With USU’s 25+ locations, every Aggie has access to some of what makes Utah so special, from Red Rock country to the Best Snow on Earth. In and Around Logan Hike or bike the trails, climb the cliffs, or take a scenic drive for a famous raspberry shake at Bear Lake. Logan Canyon offers 40 miles of adventure straight from our backyard. Plus, many surrounding towns have canyons of their own. Learn More Hiking Trails in Logan Canyon Bear Lake Winter Sports Whether you stay in Cache County or explore the rest of the state, Aggies have access to 10 major ski resorts. Once you’ve tried them all, take a road trip to compare the home of the 2002 Winter Olympics to resorts in Idaho or Colorado. Learn More Ski Utah Beaver Mountain Cherry Peak Resort Explore Northern Utah Stroll through the orchards near Brigham City, then experience the Great Salt Lake . Visit Thanksgiving Point for the Tulip festival or go see the ice castles in Midway. Then warm up with a soak in a mineral hot spring — we’ve got several. Learn More Thanksgiving Point Uinta Mountains The Great Salt Lake Utah Hot Springs National Parks and Monuments Adventures Southern Utah is home to the Mighty Five — Zion, Arches, Capitol Reef, Canyonlands and Bryce national parks. But there are also state parks and national monuments in Red Rock Country, plus Yellowstone and Grand Teton up north. Learn More Utah National Parks Utah National Monuments Southern Utah Places and Activities Entertainment Park City is home to the Sundance Film Festival, and the state offers a variety of entertainment options, from art and natural history museums to concert venues. Walk through the famous Christmas Lights at Temple Square, and warm up with some hot cocoa. Catch a show at Tuacahn in St. George or see a concert at the Red Butte Gardens. Learn More Cities and Towns Sundance Film Festival USU Botanical Center Swaner Preserve and EcoCenter Want to learn more about USU? Request Information FOLLOW US USU Facebook USU Twitter USU YouTube USU Instagram USU LinkedIn Old Main Hill, Logan, UT 84322 (435) 797-1000 ABOUT USU Contact Quick Facts News For Media Career EDUCATION Find a Degree Colleges & Schools Graduate School USU Online Statewide Campuses RESOURCES Academic Calendar University Catalog Library Canvas IT Service Desk Quick Links Directory Events Visit Campus Maps Giving Maps & Directions Search USU Campus Safety Jobs Contact Disclaimers Copyright Privacy Accessibility Non-Discrimination Back to top of the page