UH Home Login to AccessUH Visit Us On Facebook! Visit Us On LinkedIn! Toggle navigation About Our College A Message from the Dean Mission & Goals Administration Faculty Directory Resident Directory Our Building's Namesake College News & Events Need a Speaker? Directions to UHCO Future Students & Residents Scholarships Academic Programs The Optometry Profession Applying to UHCO Student Life Accreditation and Rankings Transferring to UHCO Research Current Research Studies Summer Research Program Research Faculty Seminars At A Glance Visual Optics Institute Texas Eye Research and Technology Center UHCO Myopia Control Initiative UHCO Technical Services Faculty Labs Alumni, CE & Donors Career and Practice Advancement Continuing Education Distinguished Alumnus Awards Featured Alumni Foundation for Education and Research in Vision Giving to UHCO Professional Resources Optometry Resources Guide Patient Care University Eye Institute The Surgery Center Cedar Springs Eye Clinic Applying to UHCO Give to UHCO Faculty & Staff Current Students You Are Here: UHCO Home Future Students & Residents Academic Programs The Doctor of Optometry Program Future Students & Residents | Academic Programs Pre-optometry advising sessions are available! Please visit Lyle Tate’s Calendly page here to schedule an advising appointment. O.D. Applicants: Please note that our letter of recommendation requirements for applying to our professional O.D. program have changed. Click here for details. Scholarships Academic Programs Doctor of Optometry (O.D.) Applying to UHCO Tuition & Financial Aid Optometry Admissions Test Program Prerequisites Curriculum 2025 OD Class Profile Functional Guidelines Graduate Program (Ph.D./M.S) Clinical Residencies The Optometry Profession Applying to UHCO Student Life Accreditation and Rankings Transferring to UHCO Information Request Please tell us a little about yourself and about what info you'd like to receive from the College of Optometry. Learn More The Doctor of Optometry Program The University of Houston College of Optometry seeks individuals who desire academic challenges and have the personal qualifications to complete our rigorous optometric program. The program is a four-year post-baccalaureate professional degree program which admits approximately 100 students annually; fall semester entry only. Doctors of Optometry are independent primary health care providers who examine, diagnose, treat, and manage disorders of the visual systems and diseases of the eye and associated structures. The scope of optometric care ranges from vision testing and correction to managing complex eye and vision problems and diagnosing the presence of systemic diseases such as diabetes and hypertension. Four academic years and two summer terms comprising 177 semester credit hours of study are required to complete the program successfully. During OPT II fall semester, students conduct vision screenings on behalf of the College and shadow OPT III and IV student clinicians in the University Eye Institute. After completing their clinical skills proficiency exams in November of their OPT II semester, students begin clinical patient care in their OPT II spring semester. Patient encounters will approximate 1,500 per graduate as s(he) completes family practice, pediatric, low vision, cornea and contact lens, and medical eye rotations and externships. In addition to our four-year O.D. program, UHCO now offers an exciting new opportunity: a combined O.D./M.S. program available for enrolled optometry students! For more information, please click here. Applying to UHCO | University Eye Institute | The Surgery Center | Academic Programs NBEO Pass Rates | 2025 OD Class Profile | Current Research Studies | Faculty Directory | Administration | Continuing Education ©2022 University of Houston College of Optometry. All rights reserved. Report a problem with this page Texas.gov Texas Homeland Security TRAIL Fraud Reporting Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Linking Notice Privacy Notice Open Records/Public Information Act Institutional Résumé Required Reports Electronic & Information Resources Accessibility Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness University Policies