Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Morrissey College of Arts and Sciences Information For Search BC.edu Links Earth & Environmental Sciences Menu Main Nav Earth and Environmental Sciences Earth & Environmental Sciences Contact Back Back Close About Overview Message From the Chairperson Department Values Contact Job Openings Opportunities Giving to EES News & Notes Resource Guide for Students and Staff People Undergraduate Overview Majors Minors Courses Senior Thesis & Departmental Honors Study Abroad Career and Professional Development Career Resources Science Education Conferences and Organizations Fulfilling the Core Requirements Graduate Overview Ph.D. Master of Science Dual Degree Program, M.S./M.B.A. Courses Master of Science in Teaching Research Opportunities Cooperative University Program Weston Observatory Frequently Asked Questions Research Overview Facilities Weston Observatory Seminar Series Overview Past Seminar Series Close Contact Directory A to Z Listing Search Earth and Environmental Sceinces Search BC.edu Find pages or people Search Close Close BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close Home Graduate Graduate Ph.D. Master of Science Dual Degree Program, M.S./M.B.A. Courses Master of Science in Teaching Research Opportunities Cooperative University Program Weston Observatory Frequently Asked Questions Graduate The department offers graduate courses and research programs leading to an M.S. and in Geology or Geophysics and a Ph.D. in Earth and Environmental Sciences. Students are encouraged to obtain broad scientific backgrounds by taking courses in geology, geochemistry, geophysics, and environmental geosciences along with the other sciences and mathematics. Through this multidisciplinary approach, our program provides graduates with the credibility and interdisciplinary vision they need to advance careers in academia, government, and the private sector, as well as continued studies toward a Ph.D. for students in our M.S. track. The department, with approximately 20 graduate students in residence, is housed in Devlin Hall and has additional research facilities at Weston Observatory. Students enjoy close working relationships with faculty while being able to undertake research using modern scientific equipment available. Both the M.S. and Ph.D. programs stress a strong background in the earth sciences, as well as the ability to carry out research. Students enjoy close working relationships with our faculty. The department offers teaching and research assistantships for admitted students. Research in the department covers a broad range of topics, including: coastal and estuarine processes, sedimentology, geomorphology, earthquake and exploration seismology, tectonics, structural geology, igneous and metamorphic petrology, isotope geochemistry and geochronology, groundwater hydrology, oceanography, paleoclimatology and cryospheric change, marine biogeochemistry, and environmental geology and geophysics. Our students use state-of-the-art research techniques, including modern scientific equipment and instrumentation, performing field-based research across the globe in in areas such as the Appalachians, western US, Europe, New Zealand, Australia, China, and Greenland, as well as at sea in the Atlantic, Pacific, and Arctic Oceans. Deadline for fall admission is January 10. Apply Now Request Information Learning Outcomes Upon completion of an M.S., graduates should be able to: Conduct original, publishable research in the field. Demonstrate a broad knowledge of earth processes. Demonstrate in-depth knowledge of a sub-discipline in the earth sciences. Demonstrate acquired skill in field or laboratory methods and application of appropriate quantitative methods. Write and speak effectively to professional and lay audiences about issues in the field. Teach effectively at the K-12 and undergraduate levels. Upon completion of a Ph.D., graduates should be able to: Formulate, conduct, and publish original research in the field. Demonstrate a broad knowledge of Earth processes. Demonstrate in-depth knowledge of one or more sub-disciplines in the Earth sciences. Demonstrate acquired skill in field or laboratory methods and application of appropriate quantitative methods. Write and speak effectively to professional and lay audiences about issues in the field. Teach effectively at the undergraduate and graduate levels. Back To Top Back To Top Earth and Environmental Sciences Devlin Hall 213 617-552-3640 Instagram Morrissey College of Arts and Sciences Gasson Hall 140 Commonwealth Avenue Chestnut Hill, MA 02467 About Undergraduate Graduate Faculty & Research Departments Contact Departments Art, Art History, and Film Biology Chemistry Classical Studies Communication Computer Science Earth and Environmental Sciences Economics Engineering English German Studies History Mathematics Music Philosophy Physics Political Science Psychology Romance Languages and Literatures Slavic & Eastern Languages and Literatures Sociology Theatre Theology Giving to the EES Department Apply Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College