Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. Office of the President President right arrow down arrow The President right arrow down arrow President's Cabinet Organizational Chart Inaugural Address The Office right arrow down arrow Governmental Relations Former Presidents First Lady right arrow down arrow Book: 'UC's First Ladies' Communications right arrow down arrow News Next: President's Report right arrow down arrow Next Report Fall 2019 Next Report Spring 2019 Next Report Fall 2018 Spring 2021 President's Report Statements Thought Leadership The Power of Vision Presidential Awards right arrow down arrow President's Award for Excellence right arrow down arrow Previous Recipients Presidential Medal of Graduate Student Excellence Presidential Leadership Medal of Excellence right arrow down arrow Previous Recipients Honorary Degrees NEXT Innovation Scholars Priorities right arrow down arrow Strategic Direction Equity, Inclusion and Community Impact Next, Now Campaign Searches McMicken Working Group right arrow down arrow Report Contact Home » About UC » President » Presidential Awards » President's Award for Excellence Set Navigation title in component President's Award for Excellence Previous Recipients Presidential Medal of Graduate Student Excellence Presidential Leadership Medal of Excellence Previous Recipients Honorary Degrees NEXT Innovation Scholars President's Award for Excellence The President's Award for Excellence is given at the discretion of the UC president to those who have made a significant contribution to the purposes and ideals of the university. Previous Recipients Criteria The principal criterion for this award is that a significant contribution to the purposes and ideals of the university has resulted from the high quality of an individual’s endeavors. For members of the academic community, either internal or external to the university, a significant contribution may be in education, research, or administrative service. The recipients should show excellence in their fields of endeavor which also contribute significantly to the mission and ideals of the university. For members of the non-academic community, a significant contribution to the mission and ideals of the university may be through the excellence of their efforts either external or internal to the university. Awards may be given at any time during an individual’s career, but they typically are not awarded posthumously or in absentia. Submission of Nominations Nomination procedures are described below. A preliminary proposal option has been adopted to encourage the submission of nominations and is intended to provide the opportunity of application without extensive documentation to initiative the review process. It is mandatory to submit a preliminary proposal. Preliminary Proposal Procedure The president will accept a letter of approximately 500 words detailing the individual’s achievements and the reasons why these achievements should be honored. A narrative biographical statement or CV must accompany the letter. The president will review the information and respond. Based on this preliminary assessment, if the president judges the candidate to be worthy of further consideration, the nominator will be requested to provide the documentation required for the Formal Nomination procedure. Formal Nomination Procedure The nomination letter must be accompanied by the following: A minimum of two well-documented letters detailing why the candidate deserves the award for excellence A full curriculum vitae A brief narrative biographical statement The current address and phone number of the nominee. Submission Information Nominations should be directed to: Neville G. Pinto, President Mailing address: Office of the President University of Cincinnati P. O. Box 210063 Cincinnati, OH 45221-0063 or By email: president@uc.edu Office of the President University of Cincinnati 625 University Pavilion 2618 McMicken Circle Cincinnati, OH 45221-0063 513-556-2201 president@uc.edu UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati Office of the President University of Cincinnati 625 University Pavilion 2618 McMicken Circle Cincinnati, OH 45221-0063 513-556-2201 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top