Skip to content Skip To Keyboard Navigation Toggle navigation About About Georgia Tech History & Traditions Rankings Mission & Vision Our Values Ethics Visitor Information Institute Leadership Office and Department Directory Student, Staff, and Faculty Directory Careers at Tech Academics Academic Environment Majors and Degrees Colleges and Schools Continuing and Professional Education Georgia Tech Online Academic Calendar Admissions Prospective Students Admissions Overview Campus Tours Tuition and Costs Financial Aid & Scholarships Digital Swag Campus Life Explore the Main Campus Student Activities Athletics Georgia Tech Yellow Jackets Tickets Ramblin Wreck Store Research Research Areas Research News News & Events News Center Experts Guide Feature Stories Campus Calendar Media Contacts Apply Give Search Search form Enter your keywords Get the latest Covid-19 health information, operational status updates, and campus guidelines. You are here: GT Home Student Stories Student Stories Meet Students Like You LIFE: Student Activities Menu Block Campus Life Student Activities Clubs and Organizations Sports and Recreation Arts and Culture Student Profiles Alumni Network Diverse and Inclusive Student Stories Alexandra Foote admits that she’s been described as ‘glittery and cheerleader-y.” But she is just as comfortable with programming languages as she is with her pompoms. Booker Farrior’s full name is Booker Taliaferro Washington Farrior IV. The famed educator and orator’s name has passed through the generations in Booker’s family. First-generation American Caroline Zabinski traces her roots to Poland. Her father was a political refugee. Her mother grew up during the Solidarity movement that helped bring the fall of communism. Progress and service were motivations for Chandler Watkins prior to enrolling at Georgia Tech. Since the age of 4, he's been collecting food on his birthday, rather than accepting gifts. “I was bred to come here,” Ciandra Calhoun – better known as CiCi – says. Her father graduated from Georgia Tech, now she’s following in his footsteps. Not many first-year college students can say they’re coming to campus having won an Emmy award, but David Ashcom can. A move from a small town in Connecticut to midtown Atlanta turned out to be the best decision for Jon Dolan, an inventor and code developer. “I want to do things that have never been done before,” Kaan Goksal says. Even as a high school student, Kaan was a leader of his country’s maker movement. First-year mechanical engineering student, Rosalee Ramer, ends up doing much of her calculus homework on planes.That’s because she's the world’s youngest female monster truck driver. Tammy VuPham is the daughter of Vietnam War refugees. She speaks Vietnamese and English as heritage languages, but has also taught herself Spanish, French, and Arabic. Student Stories Tyler Sara Ben Paloma Jen David Gabrielle DeJon Valeria Camera All Majors and Degrees Admission Information Financial Aid and Scholarships Facebook Twitter YouTube LinkedIn Google Plus Instagram Flickr Pinterest RSS Georgia Tech Resources Offices & Departments News Center Campus Calendar Special Events GreenBuzz Institute Communications Visitor Resources Campus Visits Directions to Campus Visitor Parking Information GTvisitor Wireless Network Information Georgia Tech Global Learning Center Georgia Tech Hotel & Conference Center Barnes & Noble at Georgia Tech Ferst Center for the Arts Robert C. Williams Paper Museum Colleges, Instructional Sites & Research Colleges College of Computing College of Design College of Engineering College of Sciences Ivan Allen College of Liberal Arts Scheller College of Business Instructional Sites Georgia Tech-Lorraine Georgia Tech-Savannah Georgia Tech-Shenzhen Georgia Tech Online Professional Education The Language Institute Global Footprint Global Engagement Research Georgia Tech Research Institute Research at Georgia Tech Executive Vice President for Research Student & Parent Resources Student Resources Apply BuzzPort Buzzcard Career Resources Commencement Library Student Life Student Entrepreneurship Study Abroad Canvas Parent Resources Parent and Family Programs Student Life Scholarships & Financial Aid Employee, Alumni, & Other Resources Employees Administration and Finance Advising & Teaching Faculty Affairs Faculty Hiring Human Resources Office of the Provost TechWorks Alumni Alumni Association Alumni Career Services Giving Back to Tech Outreach Startup Companies Economic Development Industry Engagement Government & Community Partners Professional Education Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue, Atlanta, GA 30332 Phone: 404-894-2000 Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue, Atlanta, GA 30332 404.894.2000 Directory Employment Emergency Information Enable Accessibility Legal & Privacy Information Human Trafficking Notice Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Hazing Public Disclosures Accessibility Accountability Accreditation © Georgia Institute of Technology Login