Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Cecil C. Humphreys School of Law About Law Admissions Programs Current Students Faculty Careers Library Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact About Administration & Staff History ML - Memphis Law Magazine Strategic Plan Virtual Tour ABA Disclosures Diversity Diversity HomeTIPMPDPPlus ProgramSTAIScholarships Facilities Facilities OverviewVirtual TourFloor PlansPhoto Gallery News & Events Law School NewsOn Legal Grounds BlogML-Memphis Law MagazineEvents CalendarCommunications OfficeProgram Rankings Directions Contact Us Media ResourceGeneral Contact InfoFaculty & Staff Life in Memphis Memphis-The CityNeighborhoodsHousingThe Arts SceneSportsThe Food SceneA Music TownDirections and Maps Take Action Event Calendars Consumer Information (ABA Required Disclosures) Alumni & Support Contact Memphis Law Follow Us Online InstagramFacebooktwitterYoutubeLinkedn Home School of Law About About the School of Law It makes it easier to be inspired when you are surrounded by the finest technology and facilities in the entire U.S. legal education system (according to preLaw Magazine, 2014). Located in downtown Memphis, the Cecil C. Humphreys School of Law is simply jaw dropping. But it's the education and rich experiences you will receive here that will transform you. Being located in the nation's 25th largest city puts us in a unique position of influence and as the only law school in Memphis and one of the largest in Tennessee, Memphis Law gives students unparalleled opportunities for success. Memphis Law's location will impact the education and experience you receive during your three years here; in turn, that education and experience will help you succeed wherever you go after law school. Founded in 1962, Memphis Law provides you with an excellent home and foundation for your legal education. We are dedicated to student-focused, experiential learning and are truly engaged with the community, in order to provide you with the best chance for a successful future. Mission The Mission of the University of Memphis Cecil C. Humphreys School of Law is to provide an affordable, intellectually rigorous, and practice-oriented legal education. As the sole law school in the heart of one of America's great cities, we commit ourselves to community engagement and to empowering our diverse community to pursue justice as a moral virtue and a social good. You can learn more about our various Learning Outcomes by clicking here. Strengths of Memphis Law A faculty committed to providing students with the knowledge and practical skills to succeed that also seeks, through its writing and activity, to influence law, policy and legal institutions. A strong, vibrant and growing experiential learning program that takes advantage of the law school's downtown location to produce graduates with skills the profession demands. An especially close relationship with the legal profession, the courts and the community that results from our status as the only law school in Memphis. A focus on community engagement, including strong relationships with the state and federal courts, law firms, legal services organizations, public and governmental agencies, the corporate community, and Memphis' vibrant healthcare sector. A tradition of success including bar passage rates that regularly exceed the state average and exceptional employment outcomes for more than 6,000 graduates practicing in 48 states. A supportive alumni and community base that provides opportunities to students and resources for important programs and hiring. Accreditations and Memberships The University of Memphis is accredited by the Commission on Colleges of the Southern Association of Colleges and Schools (1866 Southern Lane, Decatur, Georgia 30033-4097, telephone number 404.679.4501) to award bachelor's, first professional, master's, educational specialist, doctoral degrees, and graduate certificates. The University of Memphis Cecil C. Humphreys School of Law is accredited by the American Bar Association (ABA) and is a member of the Association of American Law Schools (AALS). The ABA may be contacted at: Council of the Section of Legal Education and Admission to the Bar, 321 N. Clark Street, Chicago, IL 60654-7598, telephone 312.988.6738. The AALS may be contacted at 1614 20th Street, NW; Washington, DC 20009, telephone 202.296.8851; http://www.aals.org/. Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 9/29/21 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.