Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Housing and Residence Life Housing 101 Residence Halls Resident Resources Conference Housing International Students About Us Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact Housing Options Centennial Place LLC - Living Learning Complex Rawls Hall Smith Hall South Hall Carpenter Complex Park Ave Apartments & Townhouses GSFH - Graduate & Student Family Housing Carney-Johnston/Lambuth Campus Take Action Apply for Housing FAQ Schedule a Tour Contact Get social with us! InstagramFacebooktwitter Home Housing and Residence Life Housing Where to Live Centennial Place Centennial Place Premier co-ed community of 780 students in traditional rooms and apartments with kitchenettes, collaboration spaces and lounges. More LLC LLC All-freshmen co-ed hall centrally located on campus with single/double rooms, music practice rooms and laundry facilities on every floor. More Rawls Hall Rawls Hall Community-style women's residence hall featuring kitchenettess, laundry facilities and lounges. More Smith Hall Smith Hall Three-story traditional residence hall housing 156 women with community style baths and lounge areas. More South Hall South Hall All-male residence hall housing 166 in double rooms with suite-style baths; features game room with pool tables and 24-hour study lounge. More Carpenter Complex Carpenter Complex Apartment-style living with convenience of living on campus; gated community houses 500 upper-classmen in apartments and townhouses. More Park Avenue Park Avenue Located on the Park Ave. campus, this quiet community of apartments and townhouses is nestled in a park-like setting with gated access and outdoor pool. More Graduate/Student Family Graduate/Student Family Housing Community of grad students and students with families living in 1 or 2-bedroom apartments/townhouses with access to pool and playground. More The University of Memphis offers almost every size room, apartment configuration and townhouse layout imaginable in its eight different residence halls on the main campus and one at Lambuth. Whether you are interested in a traditional-style dorm room or sharing an apartment with a few of your friends, the UofM has the residence life options to meet any need. Our goal is to provide you with a living environment that is safe, comfortable, and will enhance your academic, intellectual, cultural, spiritual, and social development. Want to see our properties? Please feel free to use our interactive virtual housing tours online. Additionally, check out our mini-tour in story highlights on our Instagram profile! » Open in mobile app @UofMResLife Attending Lambuth? Check out Carney-Johnston Hall. *Nine, the Gather, Stratum are NOT University of Memphis owned properties. Your housing options in an interactive tour Residence Halls Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 1/20/22 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.