Skip to main content Skip to main navigation Media and Public RelationsMenu Featured Research Announcements Accolades Hot Topics In the News Experts Expert Directory Media Kits Contact Media & PR Media & PR Staff Contact Information Baylor University Coronavirus (COVID-19) Information Media Access to Campus Policy Graduation / Award Lists Marketing and Communications Scholarship Recipient Information IRS form 990: June 2020 through May 2021 IRS form 990: June 2019 through May 2020 IRS form 990: June 2018 through May 2019 IRS form 990: June 2017 through May 2018 IRS form 990: June 2016 through May 2017 IRS form 990: June 2015 through May 2016 Report on Investigation - Willis & Pena Baylor University Announces First Faculty Endowment for Nursing School Beth Hultquist, Ph.D., inaugural holder of The Harris and Anne Clark FastBacc Endowed Professorship, and Harris Clark with the latest class of Baylor nurses who completed the accelerated FastBacc program in Baylor's Louise Herrington School of Nursing. Clinical Associate Professor Beth Hultquist, Ph.D., will be the inaugural holder of The Harris and Anne Clark FastBacc Endowed Professorship at Baylor's Louise Herrington School of Nursing. Hultquist is the coordinator of the FastBacc program, a position she has held since 2014. Tweet Dec. 9, 2021 Louise Herrington School of Nursing’s FastBacc® Program receives $1.5 million gift, names new faculty professorship Media Contact: Lori Fogleman, Baylor University Media and Public Relations, 254-709-5959 Follow us on Twitter: @BaylorUMedia WACO, Texas (Dec. 9, 2021) – Baylor University today announced a gift of $1.5 million from the Deerbrook Charitable Trust of Chevy Chase, Maryland, and Harris and Anne Clark of Dallas to establish the Louise Herrington School of Nursing’s (LHSON) first endowed faculty position. The Harris and Anne Clark FastBacc Endowed Professorship will provide permanent, enduring support for the FastBacc program, a 12-month accelerated post-baccalaureate Bachelor of Science in Nursing program. LHSON Clinical Associate Professor Beth Hultquist, Ph.D., will be the inaugural holder of The Harris and Anne Clark FastBacc Endowed Professorship. Hultquist is the coordinator of the FastBacc program, a position she has held since 2014. Her leadership and consistent work have been instrumental to the growth and success of the program. “For more than 100 years, the Louise Herrington School of Nursing has held a steadfast commitment to excellence in nursing higher education, and I am grateful for the personal investment and support from Harris and Anne Clark and the trustees of the Deerbrook Charitable Trust,” said Baylor President Linda A. Livingstone, Ph.D. “Baylor nurses are known as capable, compassionate professionals whose critical thinking and adaptability help them to succeed. Harris and Anne have long been dedicated supporters of the FastBacc program, and it is only fitting that this endowed professorship carry their name in recognition of their commitment to our Baylor nurses.” The Clark Professorship supports the Give Light campaign priority of increasing faculty endowment support among the University’s 12 schools and colleges. Since the start of the campaign, 33 endowed faculty positions have been created to recruit and retain gifted faculty to teach, mentor and advance the research priorities of the University. The endowed professorship is not the first time the Clarks and Deerbrook Charitable Trust have supported the FastBacc program. In 2009, a gift from the Trust helped to establish the intensive, full-time program in which students who already hold a bachelor’s degree in a non-nursing discipline complete 62 hours of nursing coursework at LHSON’s Dallas campus. The full-time program begins each summer with a combination of teaching methodologies, including traditional classroom, online courses, clinical and lab experiences and hybrid interactive learning courses. The first cohort of 16 students graduated in 2010. The FastBacc program has shown significant growth in the last 10 years, with 76 students graduating in May 2021. “We are truly grateful for Harris and Anne’s incredible support of the FastBacc program and our nursing students,” said LHSON Dean Linda Plank, Ph.D. “Our Baylor nurses have been called to learn, to lead and to serve in their communities, and I am grateful for those who are helping them answer that call. The Deerbrook Charitable Trust and the Clarks are champions for our FastBacc nurses, and the faculty and students of LHSON celebrate what this gift will mean for the future growth of the program and for the men and women who will pass through its doors on their way to become exceptional nurses.” The Clark Professorship will help LHSON by providing enduring resources for the FastBacc program through research support and salary and travel funding for the chairholder. As a permanent endowment, the Clark Professorship will serve as an attractive recruiting and retainment tool for faculty for the life of the program, providing stability and security to help LHSON in growing the academic track. The Clark Professorship endowment also will create opportunities for faculty and students, with resources previously tied up in funding faculty salary now available to fund other needs related to the program. Harris and Anne Clark previously supported the FastBacc program and LHSON through the establishment of several endowed scholarships. Knowing that FastBacc students have access to fewer financial assistance opportunities due to the nature of their status as degree-holding students, the Clarks also created an emergency fund to support them during their time at Baylor. Harris Clark earned a B.B.A. degree from Oglethorpe University in Atlanta, Georgia. Anne Clark graduated from Texas Tech University. Mr. Clark serves as a Trustee for the Deerbrook Charitable Trust. The Trust is a private foundation funded in 2006 by the late Hays Clark, father of Harris Clark. Since its inception, the Trust has been a valued partner and generous supporter of LHSON. The Clark Professorship gift supports the priorities of Baylor key academic initiatives of Illuminate, the University’s strategic plan. Created as part of the Give Light Campaign, the Clark Professorship will support the University’s Health Initiative to grow research and collaboration in this area, spanning all schools and colleges within the University. Baylor publicly launched the Give Light campaign on Nov. 1, 2018. To date, the campaign has raised $1.09 billion. The Campaign has seen 79,257 alumni, parents and friends give to the University’s priorities, as well as establishing 643 endowed scholarships. For more information or to support Give Light: The Campaign for Baylor, visit www.baylor.edu/givelight. ABOUT BAYLOR UNIVERSITY Baylor University is a private Christian University and a nationally ranked research institution. The University provides a vibrant campus community for more than 20,000 students by blending interdisciplinary research with an international reputation for educational excellence and a faculty commitment to teaching and scholarship. Chartered in 1845 by the Republic of Texas through the efforts of Baptist pioneers, Baylor is the oldest continually operating University in Texas. Located in Waco, Baylor welcomes students from all 50 states and more than 90 countries to study a broad range of degrees among its 12 nationally recognized academic divisions. ABOUT BAYLOR UNIVERSITY LOUISE HERRINGTON SCHOOL OF NURSING The Baylor University Louise Herrington School of Nursing (LHSON) located in Dallas, Texas, was established in 1909 as a diploma program within Baylor Hospital in Dallas, which is now Baylor Scott & White Health’s Baylor University Medical Center, and in 1950 became one of the six degree-granting schools of Baylor University. The first Baccalaureate degrees were granted in 1952, establishing the School among the earliest baccalaureate nursing programs in Texas. In 1999, the School was renamed the Baylor University Louise Herrington School of Nursing after Louise Herrington Ornelas, a 1992 Baylor Alumna Honoris Causa, who made an endowment gift to the School. The LHSON offers Bachelor of Science in Nursing (BSN) degrees through Traditional, FastBacc® (one-year accelerated) and Distance Accelerated BSN programs. Plus, the LHSON offers an online Doctor of Nursing Practice (DNP) program with tracks that include Family Nurse Practitioner, Nurse-Midwifery, Neonatal Nurse Practitioner, Pediatric Nurse Practitioner, Executive Nurse Leadership and U.S. Army Anesthesia Nursing (USAGPAN), which operates at the U.S. Army Medical Center of Excellence at Fort Sam Houston in San Antonio. U.S. News & World Report‘s 2022 Best Graduate Schools rankings include several LHSON programs, including the DNP at No. 60 nationally and “Best Nursing” specialty rankings for LHSON’s USAGPAN at No. 8 and Baylor’s Nurse-Midwifery program at No. 21. To learn more, visit baylor.edu/nursing. More News ... News Archives Looking for more news from Baylor University? Tweets by @BaylorUMedia Contact Us mail Media and Public Relations Baylor University One Bear Place #97024 Waco, TX 76798 tel (254) 710-1961 Email mediacomm@baylor.edu More Contact Info Show More General Information Colleges, Schools, Libraries & Research Admissions Administration Gateways For... About Baylor Anonymous Reporting Athletics Ask Baylor Bookstore Calendar Campus Map Directory Give Light Give to Baylor Illuminate Mental Health Resources News Pro Futuris Report It Search Social Media Title IX Baylor Libraries College of Arts & Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work George W. Truett Theological Seminary Graduate School Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Louise Herrington School of Nursing Research at Baylor University Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Engineering & Computer Science School of Music More Academics Undergraduate Admissions goBAYLOR Graduate Admissions Baylor Law School Admissions Social Work Graduate Programs George W. Truett Theological Seminary Admissions Online Graduate Professional Education Virtual Tour Visit Campus Annual Fire Safety and Security Notice Athletics Human Resources Marketing and Communications Office of General Counsel Office of the President Office of the Provost Operations, Finance & Administration Senior Administration Student Life University Advancement Baylor Alumni Faculty & Staff Online Graduate Professional Education Parents Prospective Faculty & Staff Prospective Students Students Copyright © Baylor® University. All rights reserved. Legal Disclosures. Baylor University • Waco, Texas 76798 • 1-800-229-5678 Featured Research Announcements Accolades Hot Topics In the News Experts Expert Directory Media Kits Baylor University Coronavirus (COVID-19) Information Baylor Bears 2019 Sic 'em for Safety Campaign Baylor Religion Survey Baylor Research and Innovation Collaborative Detecting Biomarkers for Cancer Eye Cancer App Helps Save Lives Exhuming Immigrant Remains Fighting Tropical Diseases Higgs Boson Research iCivics Baylor Model Life Patterns in Extreme Environments Paul L. Foster Campus Leadership and Innovation Summit Paul L. Foster Campus for Business and Innovation Small Business and Community Health Research Texas Hunger Initiative Water Quality Research Whale Earplug Reveals Lifetime Contaminant Exposure and Hormone Profiles Data Privacy Day 2019 Contact Media & PR Media & PR Staff Contact Information Baylor University Coronavirus (COVID-19) Information Media Access to Campus Policy Graduation / Award Lists Dean's Academic Honor List Graduation List Academic Scholarship Awards List Marketing and Communications Scholarship Recipient Information IRS form 990: June 2020 through May 2021 IRS form 990: June 2019 through May 2020 IRS form 990: June 2018 through May 2019 IRS form 990: June 2017 through May 2018 IRS form 990: June 2016 through May 2017 IRS form 990: June 2015 through May 2016 Report on Investigation - Willis & Pena