Skip to main content MyUW Calendar Directories Libraries UW Medicine Maps UW News Helpful Links Computing/IT ISC/Workday Husky Card UW Bothell UW Tacoma UW Facebook UW Twitter University of Washington University of Washington Students Parents Faculty & Staff Alumni Quick Links Events UWAA Members Join or renew Reasons to be a member Class of 2022 offer Member benefits Member account Get the app UW Impact Travel COVID-19 Updates Upcoming Tours Traveling with us Traveler Testimonials Tour Operators Resources & FAQs Travel insurance Communities U.S. Huskies International Huskies UW campuses, colleges & schools Common Ground Always Learning Multicultural Alumni Partnership Reunions UW Husky Landing Future Alumni Dinners with the Pack Huskies@Work Student Alumni Ambassadors Student Career Trek Services Career UW NetID Email & online tools Transcripts BECU GEICO Update your information UW Alumni Tours Home Alumni Travel Upcoming Tours Upcoming Tours Overview List Print Join our email list Close Enter search text to filter tours FILTER: All Destinations 2022 2023 Africa Asia Cruise Europe Land Land/Cruise Combo Latin America N. America No Single Supplement Oceania Cruises Odysseys Unlimited S. Pacific Europe Norwegian Splendor June 13-28, 2022 From the cosmopolitan capitals to magnificent fjords, encounter Scandinavia at its best. Odysseys Unlimited bergen , copenhagen , norway , scandinavia , stockholm , sweden Link Europe Exploring Iceland June 16-26, 2022 Explore this natural wonderland of glaciers, volcanoes, bubbling mud holes, powerful waterfalls and abundant birdlife. Odysseys Unlimited Link Available for Booking Now! N. America Discover Southeast Alaska Jun. 17–24, 2022 Discover the endless beauty, abundant wildlife and native cultures of Southeast Alaska. Orbridge Link Call 888-918-8954 to Book Now! Europe Medieval Montage: Baltics & Scandinavia July 20–31, 2022 Discover captivating destinations in Scandinavia and the Baltics on this exciting 10-night journey aboard Oceania’s Marina. Go Next & Oceania Cruises Link Selling Fast! Europe Grand Danube Passage Sept. 2-17, 2022 Explore eight countries, Old World capitals & charming villages along the Danube AHI Travel Link Revised, longer itinerary! N. America North American Waterways: Lakes, Islands & French Canada Sept. 5-19, 2022 Journey through the landscapes of N. American waterways on this luxury cruise. Go Next & American Queen Voyages Link Selling Fast! Europe Legendary Turkey Sept. 13–27, 2022 Enjoy exotic sights, scents and sounds in this land where Europe and Asia meet. Odysseys Unlimited Link Selling Fast! Asia Insider’s Japan Sept. 19 – Oct. 1, 2022 Experience the highlights of Tokyo and Kyoto, engage in local life and go off the beaten path to the historic cities of Takayama, Kanazawa and Nara. Odysseys Unlimited Link Selling Fast! Europe Legendary Turkey September 20–Oct. 4, 2022 Enjoy exotic sights, scents and sounds in this land where Europe and Asia meet. Odysseys Unlimited Link Selling Fast! Africa Africa’s Wildlife Sept. 25–Oct. 8, 2022 A glimpse of a world primeval awaits on this safari to Botswana’s Chobe National Park, Zimbabwe’s dazzling Victoria Falls and Zambia’s Lower Zambezi National Park. Odysseys Unlimited Link Selling Fast! Europe Pearls of Dalmatia Sept. 29–Oct. 13, 2022 Independent, democratic Croatia welcomes visitors eager to absorb its remarkable history and culture — and its beautiful and unspoiled Dalmatian coastline. Odysseys Unlimited Link Available for Booking Now! Europe Discovering Eastern Europe Oct. 1–16, 2022 Explore a beautiful and poignant part of the world in four fascinating nations. Odysseys Unlimited Link Selling Fast! Europe Pearls of Dalmatia Oct. 6-20, 2022 Independent, democratic Croatia welcomes visitors eager to absorb its remarkable history and culture — and its beautiful and unspoiled Dalmatian coastline. Odysseys Unlimited Link Selling Fast! Europe Portrait of Italy Oct. 10-25, 2022 From the breathtaking Amalfi Coast to eternal Rome, through the gentle countryside, this tour showcases ancient sites, contemporary life, priceless art and beautiful natural scenery. Odysseys Unlimited Link Selling Fast! Europe Portrait of Italy Oct. 17-Nov 1, 2022 From the breathtaking Amalfi Coast to eternal Rome, through the gentle countryside, this tour showcases ancient sites, contemporary life, priceless art and beautiful natural scenery. Odysseys Unlimited Link Selling Fast! Africa Moroccan Discovery Oct. 25-Nov 7, 2022 This land of dramatic contrasts invites us to encounter its ancient ruins and sacred mosques, endless desert and storied mountains, imposing kasbahs and spirited souks. Odysseys Unlimited Link Waitlist Only Africa Moroccan Discovery Nov 6–19, 2022 This land of dramatic contrasts invites us to encounter its ancient ruins and sacred mosques, endless desert and storied mountains, imposing kasbahs and spirited souks. Odysseys Unlimited Link Selling Fast! N. America Wolves & Wildlife of Yellowstone Jan. 21 – 27, 2023 Experience Yellowstone National Park when its beauty is more untouched by the outside world than any other time of the year. Orbridge Link Waitlist Only Africa Egypt & the Eternal Nile Jan. 23–Feb. 6, 2023 Travel from vibrant Cairo and the Great Pyramids to Abu Simbel and the Upper Nile. Then voyage along the lower Nile from Aswan to Luxor. Odysseys Unlimited Link Selling Fast! Africa Egypt & the Eternal Nile Jan. 30–Feb. 13 Travel from vibrant Cairo and the Great Pyramids to Abu Simbel and the Upper Nile. Then voyage along the lower Nile from Aswan to Luxor. Odysseys Unlimited Link Selling Fast! Latin America The Galapagos Islands Jan. 31–Feb. 7, 2023 Explore the fascinating islands and observe the iconic species that hold a central position in modern scientific and evolutionary history. Orbridge Link Available for Booking Now! Africa Classic Safari: Kenya & Tanzania Feb. 2–17, 2023 From grasslands to highlands, reserves to national parks, you'll enjoy intimate game drives, stupendous landscapes and gracious local people. Odysseys Unlimited Link Available for Booking Now! S.Pacific Exploring Australia & New Zealand Feb. 4–25, 2023 Small group touring and the Lands Down Under add up to a perfect combination. Odysseys Unlimited Link New Departure! S.Pacific Exploring Australia & New Zealand Feb. 8–March 1, 2023 Small group touring and the Lands Down Under add up to a perfect combination. Odysseys Unlimited Link Available for Booking Now! Latin America Costa Rica’s Natural Heritage Feb 11–21, 2023 Enjoy a relaxed yet comprehensive exploration of Costa Rica’s natural wonders. Odysseys Unlimited Link Available for Booking Now! Africa Classic Safari: Kenya & Tanzania Feb. 23–March 10, 2023 From grasslands to highlands, reserves to national parks, you'll enjoy intimate game drives, stupendous landscapes and gracious local people. Odysseys Unlimited Link Available for Booking Now! Asia Japanese Immersion March 22–April 2, 2023 Welcome spring by reveling in the exquisiteness of cherry blossom season in Japan on this 10-day voyage aboard Oceania’s Nautica. Go Next & Oceania Cruises Link Available for Booking Now! Asia Insider’s Japan April 8–20, 2023 Experience the highlights of Tokyo and Kyoto, engage in local life and go off the beaten path to the historic cities of Takayama, Kanazawa and Nara. Odysseys Unlimited Link Available for Booking Now! Europe Picturesque Mediterranean April 14–24, 2023 Explore the charming coastlines of Italy, Croatia, Greece and France on this 10-night luxury cruise. Go Next & Oceania Cruises Link Europe Sicily in Depth April 20–May 1, 2023 Experience the lively cities, delectable cuisine, ancient temples and hospitable people of this wonderful Italian island. Odysseys Unlimited Link Europe Portrait of Italy April 29–May 14, 2023 From the breathtaking Amalfi Coast to eternal Rome, through the gentle countryside, this tour showcases ancient sites, contemporary life, priceless art and beautiful natural scenery. Odysseys Unlimited Link Europe Pearls of Dalmatia May 1–15, 2023 Independent, democratic Croatia welcomes visitors eager to absorb its remarkable history and culture — and its beautiful and unspoiled Dalmatian coastline. Odysseys Unlimited Link Europe Provincial French Countryside May 12–26, 2023 Experience the beauty, allure and hospitality of provincial France, anchored by stays in vibrant Toulouse and enchanting Paris. Odysseys Unlimited Link Available for Booking Now! Europe Grand Seine River & Normandy Passage May 16–24, 2023 Cruise through an illuminated Paris at night, visit the D-Day beaches and more. AHI Travel Link Available for Booking Now! Europe Romance of the Douro River May 20–31, 2023 Spend three nights in Lisbon and then cruise the Douro River for seven nights aboard the exclusively chartered MS Gil Eanes. AHI Travel Link Europe Enchanting Ireland May 28–June 9, 2023 Explore Ireland’s untamed western coastline, enjoy a whiskey tasting and more. Odysseys Unlimited Link Europe Norwegian Splendor June 5–20, 2023 From the cosmopolitan capitals to magnificent fjords, encounter Scandinavia at its best. Odysseys Unlimited bergen , copenhagen , norway , scandinavia , stockholm , sweden Link Available for Booking Now! Asia Insider’s Japan Sept. 11-23, 2023 Experience the highlights of Tokyo and Kyoto, engage in local life and go off the beaten path to the historic cities of Takayama, Kanazawa and Nara. Odysseys Unlimited Link Europe Legendary Turkey Sept. 15–29, 2023 Enjoy exotic sights, scents and sounds in this land where Europe and Asia meet. Odysseys Unlimited Link Available for Booking Now! N. America Autumn Vistas of Canada & New England Sept. 17–29, 2023 Enjoy Oceania Cruises’ newest luxury ship, the Vista, while visiting the beautiful harbors of Canada and New England. Go Next & Oceania Cruises Link Available for Booking Now! Europe Undiscovered Italy ~ Trentino, South Tyrol & the Dolomites Sept. 20–28, 2023 Be captivated by the extraordinary beauty of the Dolomites while enjoying the charms of northern Italy. AHI Travel Link Europe Flavors of Chianti Sept. 21–29, 2023 Embrace the bewitching enchantment, bucolic ambiance, and charismatic culture of Chianti. Orbridge Link Africa Africa’s Wildlife Sept. 22–Oct. 5, 2023 This singular safari covers Botswana’s Chobe National Park, Zimbabwe’s dazzling Victoria Falls, and Zambia’s exceptional Lower Zambezi National Park, a remote, unspoiled preserve. Odysseys Unlimited Link Europe Across Spain & Portugal Sept. 24–Oct. 10, 2023 Experience Iberia's cities, villages, rugged peaks, shrines and fine art. Odysseys Unlimited Link Europe Ancient Greece Oct. 3–16, 2023 As the ancient world comes alive in Athens and the Peloponnese, Crete and Santorini, we celebrate the glory that was Greece — and still is today. Odysseys Unlimited Link Available for Booking Now! Europe Croatia & Cruising the Dalmatian Coast Oct. 3–14, 2023 Fall under the spell of the alluring islands and timeless beauty of the Dalmatian Coast. AHI Travel Link Asia Journey Through Israel Oct. 21–31, 2023 Step back in time to the ancient world of the Middle East, where overwhelming history and architecture tower over the present day. Orbridge Link Africa Moroccan Discovery Oct. 31–Nov. 13, 2023 This land of dramatic contrasts invites us to encounter its ancient ruins and sacred mosques, endless desert and storied mountains, imposing kasbahs and spirited souks. Odysseys Unlimited Link UW Alumni Facebook UW Alumni Twitter UW Alumni Instagram UW Alumni LinkedIn CONTACT UWAA: 206-543-0540 uwalumni@uw.edu About UWAA Join University of Washington Be boundless Connect with us: Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Pinterest Accessibility Contact Us Jobs Campus Safety My UW Rules Docket Privacy Terms © 2022 University of Washington | Seattle, WA