Skip to main content Skip to primary site menu Google Tag Manager Search form Search Brown University A-Z Index People Directory Students Alumni Careers News Events Search Give Explore Brown University's School of Public Health Admissions Academics Research Faculty About Diversity Admissions Academics Research Faculty About Diversity A-Z Index People Directory Students Alumni Careers News Events Department of Biostatistics Home About Academics Research People News Site Navigation Home Statistics Seminars Series Seminar Archive About Job Postings Our Partners Academics Doctoral Program Ph.D. FAQs Master's Program Sc.M. Degree 5th Year (A.M.)/OGE NextGen Scholars Program in Biostatistics Welcome from the chair Master's FAQs Undergraduate Concentration Career Information Series Resources Dissertation Spotlight Courses Introductory Biostatistics Courses Research People Administration Faculty Students Current Doctoral Students Current Master’s Students Alumni News News Item Submission Biostatistics New Faculty - Anarina Murillo, Ph.D. May 24, 2022 Brown University's School of Public Health Department of Biostatistics is pleased to welcome one of our newest faculty members, Dr. Anarina Murillo, as Assistant Professor of Biostatistics on the Teaching Scholar Track, effective August 1, 2022. Professor Murillo will be teaching Biostatistics courses as well as engaging in advising of undergraduate and graduate students, and curricular development. Professor Murillo received her Ph.D. in Applied Mathematics and a Certificate in Statistics from Arizona State University. She currently serves as Visiting Faculty in the Department of Biostatistics at the School of Global Public Health at NYU. Prior to that, she was an Assistant Professor (Research) with the Department of Pediatrics and a Senior Biostatistician with the Center for Statistical Sciences at Brown. Her research interests are broadly in statistical applications in obesity, diabetes, cardiovascular disease, infectious diseases, health disparities,and social determinants of health. In her spare time, Professor Murillo enjoys volunteering in community outreach, youth, and multimedia ministries at her church. She is a beginner violinist and also enjoys running outdoors, exploring new food and coffee shops, playing with her nephew, and spending time with her family. Department of Biostatistics Department of Biostatistics Brown University Box G-S121-7 121 S Main St, 7th Floor Providence, RI 02912 Phone: 401-863-9831 Fax: 401-863-9182 Twitter Twitter Facebook Facebook Brown University Giving to Brown 121 South Main Street, Providence, Rhode Island 02903, USA 401-863-3375 Contact Us Newsletter Maps Directions Career Opportunities Campus Safety Accessibility Brown Social Media © 2022 Brown University | Back to top