Skip to main content UCF News | Stories of Impact + Innovation | Orlando, FL Sections × UCF News | Stories of Impact + Innovation | Orlando, FL Arts Business Colleges Community Health Opinions Science & Tech Sports Student Life Tuesday, May 31, 2022 88ºF Mostly cloudy Health & Medicine Nursing Professor Named Healthcare-Simulation Educator of the Year The international Society for Simulation in Healthcare honors Mindi Anderson for her advancements in the field. By Gene Kruckemyer ’73 | March 9, 2021 An educator for more than two decades, Mindi Anderson was an early pioneer in adopting healthcare simulation in academic settings and today is one of the foremost experts in the field. Professor Mindi Anderson, inaugural director of UCF’s Healthcare Simulation graduate program in the College of Nursing, today was named 2020 Educator of the Year by the International Society for Simulation in Healthcare. An educator for more than two decades, Anderson was an early pioneer in adopting healthcare simulation in academic settings and today is one of the foremost experts in the field. She was among the world’s first 20 healthcare simulation educators to earn advanced certification seven years ago. Anderson’s research has been widely published and presented nationally and internationally, and has helped shape nursing education and establish best practices in healthcare simulation. Her research includes using simulation in preparing students for nursing practice and in interprofessional education, virtual and game-based simulation, and new simulation technologies. In addition to her accomplishments and research, Anderson’s “growing national and international reputation as an independent investigator and major contributor in advancing the field of healthcare simulation” was a determining factor for the award, says Robert Armstrong, president of the society. Anderson, an advanced practice registered nurse and certified pediatric nurse practitioner – primary care, has been at UCF since 2015. She earned her BSN at Texas Christian University, her master’s at University of Texas at Arlington, and her doctorate at Texas Woman’s University. She holds two patents on advances in simulation and training, is associate editor of Simulation & Gaming, a fellow of the American Academy of Nursing, and is on the board of directors of the International Nursing Association for Clinical Simulation & Learning, which honored her with an Excellence in Academia Award in 2018. “Her work is not limited to academic research and aspects of the simulation experience … but the care of vulnerable populations such as children, her clinical specialization.” “Several national studies have used her collaborative work,” says Assistant Professor Frank Guido-Sanz in a letter of recommendation to the society. “Her work is not limited to academic research and aspects of the simulation experience … but the care of vulnerable populations such as children, her clinical specialization.” In addition to her impact on nursing education and training, Anderson is influencing future generations of simulation researchers and leaders as a mentor. “Dr. Anderson has the unique ability to mentor learners from varying levels of expertise and inspire them to achieve higher goals,” says senior lecturer Erica Hoyt. Anderson says she’s been fortunate to have worked with the best coworkers and students at UCF and beyond. “I am inspired daily from my colleagues and students and their commitment to advancing nursing and patient safety,” she says. “I am particularly humbled by this award as the nominators were faculty colleagues and mentees. For UCF, I believe this highlights the innovative programs and solutions we have to offer and have developed.” Anderson last week also was honored by Faculty Excellence as one of 31 women faculty members for their impact on students and the campus community. The award was part of the campus’ annual Women’s History Month observance. More Topics College of Nursing Nursing faculty Academic Excellence Mindi Anderson Share this content on Facebook Tweet this content Share this content on LinkedIn Related Stories UCF Students Oust Top Teams at 2022 North America Collegiate Programming Contest, Advance to World Finals Research in 60 Seconds Video: Examining Effective Crisis Communication 2022 UCF Medical Grad Putting Service at Forefront in Medicine Elite Students Coming to UCF for North America Collegiate Programming Contest His Research is Personal — and it Could Change Millions of Lives From the Lab to Real Life UCF Student to Conduct Research at Mayo Clinic After Graduation 26 Exemplary Students Awarded 2022 Order of Pegasus University of Central Florida About UCF Contact Us Faculty Online Degrees Policies Privacy Notice Public Records Regulations Report a Concern UCF News 4000 Central Florida Blvd. Orlando, Florida, 32816 | 407.823.2000 © University of Central Florida