Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Health Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Our Services Appointments Health Topics Events Forms and Guidelines Our Organization News See All Services What's Open Now Patient Resources Quarantine and Isolation Support Coping Tools Immunization Compliance Top Services Birth Control Education Individual Counseling Primary Care Register with Disability Services Sexual Assault: Get Support STI Testing Support Groups Travel Medicine Urgent Medical Concerns Workshops and Trainings Cost of Service Overview Make an Appointment Same Day Service Emergency and After-hours Support Alcohol Body Image Concerns Marijuana Disabilities Other Drugs HIV Insurance Men's Health Mental Health and Well-Being Anxiety Depression Stress Nutrition Physical Activity Relationships Overview Academic Relationships Friendships Roommates Sexual and Reproductive Health Sleep Transgender and Gender Expansive Health Violence Prevention Prevention Consent What Is Sexual Assault? Supporting a Survivor What Is Relationship Abuse? Stalking What Is Sexual Harassment? Bystander Intervention-Step UP! Women's Health See All Events Sexual Assault Awareness Month Columbia Health Flu Season Information Virtual Naloxone Training About Columbia Health Who We Are Who We Serve Confidentiality, Patient Rights, & Patient Responsibilities Operating Philosophy Video Library Your Feedback Staff Directory Health Units Alice! Health Promotion Counseling and Psychological Services Disability Services Gay Health Advocacy Project (GHAP) Insurance Office Medical Services Sexual Violence Response Columbia Health You are here: Home Our Organization About Columbia Health Operating Philosophy Operating Philosophy Comprehensive Care, 24/7 Our operating model is structured to provide the most comprehensive level of care, driven by student need, service utilization, industry best practices – and above all – an unequivocal commitment to the health and well-being of each and every student. Our approach is guided by the American College Health Association (ACHA) framework for a comprehensive college health program and has been endorsed through national accreditation with the Accreditation Association for Ambulatory Healthcare (AAAHC) as well as through our ongoing partnership with the JED Foundation. Office Hours The primary office-hour availability of our services is designed to meet the needs of our student community, based on their own schedules and most common times that care is sought. We continually evaluate utilization data and adjust as needed. Same Day 80% of visits to Medical Services are same day appointments. On a regular basis, we explore ways to maximize staffing and resources to accommodate more same day appointments, which will help decrease the need for after-hours care. Counseling and Psychological Services facilitates 1,000 drop-in visits annually at a number of campus locations throughout the week. Drop-in sessions do not require a scheduled appointment, but can often lead to a regular visit with a clinician. After-Hours The same, unconditional commitment to student health drives the support and structure of Columbia Health’s comprehensive after-hours care. The foremost goal of our after-hours operation is to ensure students get quick access to appropriate support and care. To achieve this goal, after-hours care is provided via different means, and per industry best practices may not include onsite services. In some cases, telephone help lines or local providers are best-positioned to provide the right level of emergency care to our students. This extensive approach to after-hours service is only strengthened by our location in a city with world-class facilities within walking distance of our campus. Only a small and decreasing number of peer institutions maintain overnight infirmaries; many of Columbia’s peers use a similar approach to after-hours medical and mental health care. Medical Services After hours, Medical Services partners with FoneMed, a company that works with clients in the healthcare industry nationwide, providing trained and licensed registered nurses that help to evaluate a student’s needs and provide appropriate telephone advice. This may range from self-care suggestions to an emergency room referral. Medical Services receives reports from FoneMed on all student calls for follow-up to ensure continuity of care. This model is used by many professional organizations and peer institutions, and has been demonstrated as efficient, effective and safe. Counseling and Psychological Services After hours, CPS partners with Protocall, a leading nationwide and accredited provider in telephonic behavioral health services. Trained clinicians speak directly with students to provide advice, determine an immediate action plan for the evening, or make referrals for next steps in the student’s care. In case of a crisis, this system prevents delay in accessing emergency care. CPS has a clinician on call 24/7 that the Protocall team consults with as needed. In addition, CPS receives reports on all student calls for follow-up to ensure continuity of care. Sexual Violence Response After hours, SVR Advocates (Professional and Peer) are available by calling the SVR Helpline at 212-854-HELP (4357). The SVR Helpline is available 24 hours a day, 7 days a week, 365 days a year for students seeking support, information and/or requesting in-person accompaniment to local emergency departments, law enforcement and public safety. CUEMS In emergency situations, Public Safety can dispatch CUEMS to respond to a student to provide basic medical care and /or transport to the hospital as appropriate. CUEMS is a student-operated, New York State-certified, basic life support volunteer ambulance core, consisting of 40 active student members who are compassionate, well-trained, efficient, and responsive. Service and transport is provided to students at no cost. Need help with weekend or late night distress? Check out our Coping Tools page for various digital services, mobile apps, and online resources outside our regular hours of operation. Our limited podcast series, Invisible and On Stage, provides an open conversation around racism-related stress, identity, and community, and the way they impact mental health. Listen now! The entire Columbia Health team, photographed in Lerner Hall. Click the image to see a larger version. Columbia Health Alice! Health Promotion Disability Services Counseling and Psychological Services Gay Health Advocacy Project (GHAP) Insurance Office Immunization Compliance Office Medical Services Sexual Violence Response All Columbia Health offices are closed on University Holidays. Annual Report Columbia Health Annual Report Stay Connected Receive important news and event info from Columbia Health Columbia Health Events Join us for workshops, panel discussions, skill-building opportunities, and other events! Accessibility Accommodations Columbia Health makes every effort to accommodate individuals with disabilities. If you require disability accommodations to attend an event sponsored by Columbia Health, or by the University, contact Disability Services at 212-854-2388 at least 10 days in advance of the event. 212-854-2284 [email protected] Columbia Health Administration Wallach Hall, Suite 125, Mail Code 4202, 1116 Amsterdam Avenue · New York, NY 10027 Phone 212-854-2284 Contact Us [email protected] Internal Use Only Login to Access Follow Us Facebook Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close