Skip to main content Skip to primary site menu Google Tag Manager Search form Search Explore Brown University Search Global Navigation Learn More About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life Find A to Z Index People Directory Information for Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Top Destinations Global Brown Watson Institute Graduate School Alpert Medical School School of Public Health School of Engineering The Harriet W. Sheridan Center for Teaching and Learning Home About Staff Proctors and Head Teaching Consultants Teaching Consultants Sheridan Center Advisory Groups Departmental Liaisons Visit Staff Jobs at the Center Student Jobs at the Center Programs & Services Teaching & Learning Resources Learning Collaborative News & Events Site Navigation Home About Staff Proctors and Head Teaching Consultants Teaching Consultants Sheridan Center Advisory Groups Departmental Liaisons Visit Staff Jobs at the Center Student Jobs at the Center Programs & Services Assessment Departmental Assessment Plans Campus Assessment Projects Assessing and Researching your Teaching Certificates Sheridan Teaching Seminar Course Design Seminar Teaching Consultant Program Head Teaching Consultants Invited Speaker Program Consultations Course Consultations Grant Consultations Teaching Observations Goals and Contexts Early Student Feedback Departmental Support Departmental Assessment Plans Learning Outcomes and Mapping English Language Support English Language Workshops Individual Support Conversation Partners Program English Language Program Fellowships & Awards Provost’s Faculty Teaching Fellows Graduate Student Proctorship in Academic Administration Graduate and Postdoc Teaching Fellows Junior Faculty Teaching Fellows University Awards Grant Support Institutes & Retreats Launch Anchor Problem Solving Course Design Institute Data Science Course Design Institute Seminar for Transformation Around Anti-Racist Teaching Orientations Tutoring Tutoring Supported Courses Summer 2022 Language Courses Apply to be a Tutor People Workshops & Roundtables Teaching Essentials for Graduate TAs Teaching Statements & Portfolios Sheridan-RISD Museum Collaborative Workshop Series Writing [email protected] Past [email protected] Programming Writing Center People Consultations FAQ Opportunities Writing Fellows People Courses English 1190M Outreach Apply Teaching & Learning Resources Teaching Resources Teaching in Times of Disruption Course Design Creating a Syllabus Resources for New Instructors Interpreting Your Course Feedback Evidence-based Practices Establishing Learning Goals Classroom Assessment Entrance and Exit Tickets Sample Exit Tickets Mid-Semester Feedback Guidelines for Assessing Student Learning Grading Criteria & Rubrics Creating Grading Criteria Designing Grading Rubrics Rubrics Criteria Rubrics Scales Enhancing Student Learning with Technology Promoting Study Skills Classroom Practices Learning Contexts First Day(s) of Class Lectures & Large Classes Discussions & Seminars Labs Active Learning Critical Reading Contemplative Pedagogy Promoting Metacognition Teaching with Podcasts Classroom Communication Tips Effective Multimedia Lecture Slides Teaching Problem Solving Writing to Learn Digital Teaching & Learning Working with TAs Teaching Writing Writing Fellows Courses Teaching a WRIT Course A Guide to the Writing Support (WSUP) Flag for Faculty Teaching Statements & Portfolios Mentoring Resources Effective Mentoring Practices Inclusive Teaching Anti-Racist Teaching Definitions Diversity & Inclusion Inclusive Mentoring Learning Collaborative Problem Solving Problem Solving Course Design Institute Problem Solving Fellows Research Writing Writing Across the Curriculum Seminar WAC Participants Writing Fellows People Courses English 1190M Apply Data Science Data Science Course Design Institute Data Science Fellows News & Events Upcoming Events Past Events Newsletter Proctors and Head Teaching Consultants Nechama Juni [email protected] Chumie is a 6th year PhD Candidate in Religious Studies, subfield Religion and Critical Thought. Her dissertation brings together Jewish thought, theory of religion, and gender studies through an exploration of pious Jewish women's ritual practices. She holds a BA in Biology and Philosophy from Stern College for Women and an MA in Jewish Philosophy from Bernard Revel Graduate School. Read full profile Vidushi Shukla Head Teaching Consultant [email protected] Vidushi is a 5th-year Ph.D. candidate in the School of Engineering. Her research involves experimental and data science-based study on the impact of 2D nanomaterials on health and the environment. She is an international student from Mumbai, India, where she earned a B.Tech. in Chemical Technology. While at Brown she has received her M.S. in Chemical, Biochemical and Environmental Engineering as well as a Doctoral Certificate in Data Science, and has had the opportunity to be a teaching assistant for courses in Chemical and Biomedical Engineering. She has also been involved with the Brown pre-college program [email protected] and has acted as instructor for 2 years. She first began work with the Sheridan Center in 2018, and has since completed all their certificate programs, also acting as Teaching Consultant in 2019. She credits her work with them as responsible for an exponential growth in her skills as a teacher, and greatly looks forward to being a Head Teaching Consultant for the Center in the upcoming year. Read full profile Alex Jordon Head Teaching Consultant [email protected] Alex is a Ph.D candidate of Pathobiology in Brown University’s department of Molecular Microbiology and Immunology. His research focuses on the immune response to cancer where he hopes to identify and validate the use of novel cell surface coinhibitory receptors as sites of therapeutic intervention. Alex is excitable and passionate and these attributes spill through in the classroom. You may find him asking students to rearrange their desks to better facilitate community learning or an interesting icebreaker to lighten the mood. He has experience as a tutor, a teaching assistant, and as a participant in the many Sheridan Center certificate programs which has been a participant in since 2019. Alex values a good cup of black coffee, small group breakout sessions, and an anti-racist approach to teaching. Read full profile Sofia Verba [email protected] Sofia is a 4th year PhD Candidate in the Department of Slavic studies. She is an international student from Saint Petersburg, Russia, where she earned a BA and a MA in History of Art. Her research involves female representation in Soviet painting and poster art. At Brown she received her MA in Slavic Studies and TA-ed courses in Russian language and Russian Cinema. She has been involved with Sheridan since year one of her PhD and completed the Sheridan Teaching Seminar (Certificate I) and the Course Design Seminar Certificate, was an Assessment Proctor and a Teaching Consultant, and she looks forward to being a proctor again this semester. Read full profile Britt Threatt Proctor [email protected] Britt Threatt graduated from Rhodes College with BAs in English literature and theatre; she earned a MA in Africana Studies from Brown University in 2019 and is now pursuing her doctorate in the same program. Her research intersects performance studies, literary theory, monster theory, and women’s history. She studies slave legacies in Black women’s science fiction and fantasy. Britt began working with the Sheridan Center in Spring 2019 through their Teaching Certificate program and joined the Writing Center that Fall 2019 where she has worked since. Read full profile About Staff Proctors and Head Teaching Consultants Teaching Consultants Sheridan Center Advisory Groups Departmental Liaisons Visit Staff Jobs at the Center Student Jobs at the Center The Sheridan Center The Sheridan Center Brown University Box 1912 Sciences Library 201 Thayer Street, 7th Floor Providence, RI 02912 Phone: 401-863-1219 Fax: 401-863-6976 Email [email protected] Facebook Facebook Brown University Giving to Brown Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA 401-863-1000 Contact Us Maps Directions Career Opportunities Campus Safety Accessibility All Social Media © 2022 Brown University | Back to top