Skip to main content Admissions Home Search Menu Boise Global Navigation Apply Visit Give Menu Ready to take the next step? Plan your virtual visit. Search Search All Boise State Admissions Only We are creating virtual versions of our offerings Virtual Visits Hey, future Broncos! Below you will find our virtual visit options designed to meet you wherever you’re at in the college search process. Our campus visit options vary from week to week. You will be able to choose your session, date and time by selecting “Sign Up For Your Session” below. Admissions Apply Visit Student Life Explore Academics Cost and Value Next Steps for Admitted Students Connect with Us! More section menu items Tour Campus - From Your Couch! Boise State Campus Tour Highlights Check out our campus tour highlights video, a short look at some of the favorite stops along our in-person tour of our Boise State home. Play FIRST YEAR STUDENT SESSIONS Who: Interested High School Students These sessions are designed for first year students that are currently in high school. Choose from a variety of virtual sessions and available times where you can learn more about Boise State and see the campus through our students’ eyes. Grab some blue and orange and let’s go! Sign Up For Your Future Student Session Who: Admitted High School Students These sessions are designed for admitted first year students. Choose from a menu of options varying from general next steps presentations to live Q&A sessions with representatives from Housing and Financial Aid. We look forward to helping our #OfficialBroncos! Sign Up For Your Admitted Student Session TRANSFER STUDENT SESSIONS Who: Any transfer students interested or admitted to Boise State This session is designed for students interested in transferring to Boise State. Whether you’ve already been admitted or you are just starting the search, we will help answer your questions about transfer credit, financial aid and the admission process. We will then take you on an optional, virtual campus tour from the comfort of your own home. Sign Up For Your Transfer Session VIRTUAL APPOINTMENTS Who: Any student interested in learning more Looking to connect with your academic area of interest? Want to meet with a club or organization you are curious about? We are excited to offer the opportunity to connect with our academic departments and a variety of other clubs and organizations! Sign Up For Your Virtual Appointment Session HONORS INFORMATION SESSION Who: Any student interested in learning more about the Honors College This session is designed for students interested in joining the Honors College. Whether you’ve already been admitted to the Honors College or are just starting your college search, we will help answer your questions about the Honors College at Boise State. Sign Up For Your Honors Information Session FULLY ONLINE DEGREE SESSION Interested in a fully online degree at Boise State? Join the Boise State Online Student Success Team where you’ll learn about your academic program of interest, discover what makes a Boise State online degree competitive and receive key application and financial aid information. Sign Up For Your Fully Online Degree Session Boise State Admissions admissions@boisestate.edu 208-426-1156 1910 University Dr. Boise, 83725-1320 Follow Us Follow us on Facebook Follow us on Instagram Follow us on Youtube Secondary Navigation myBoiseState Safety, Security and Support Career Opportunities Boise State Public Radio Albertsons Library Transportation and Parking Partner with Us Morrison Center Alumni Bronco Shop and Bookstore University Administration ExtraMile Arena Broncos Logo Athletics Follow us on Facebook Follow us on Instagram Follow us on Twitter Follow us on Youtube Accessibility Privacy Classroom Concerns Policies Contact Boise State © 2022 All Rights Reserved. Boise State University