Skip to site alert. Skip to content Irving Institute for Clinical and Translational Research Newsletter News Events Videos People Search About Us About Us Resources and Cores Message from the Director History Initiatives and Committees News Events Videos Contact Cite the Grant Subscribe to our Mailing List Initiatives and Committees Implementation Science COVID-19 Research Initiative Diversity, Equity and Inclusion (DEI) Committee Opioid Crisis Response Learning Health System Initiative Services and Programs Our Impact Our Impact A Model for Collaboration Testimonials Publications People Impact Stories Narratives of Discovery People Irving Scholars Mentor of the Year Award Pilot Awardees Scholars, Trainees, and Fellows Join a Study Join a Study What is Health Research? Research Registries and Studies Community Health Resources Narratives of Discovery The Irving Institute for Clinical and Translational Research is honored to partner with Dr. Rita Charon on a new narrative medicine series, interviewing today’s top life scientists, offering new “Narratives of Discovery.” Topics Research Campus News Public Health Precision Medicine Education Impact Stories Personalized Medicine Medical School View All Topics Search All News Keywords News Top Stories Narratives of Discovery - Series Introduction The Irving Institute for Clinical and Translational Research has partnered with Rita Charon on a new narrative medicine series, interviewing today’s leading life scientists. Article 5: George Hripcsak Dr. Hripcsak has had profound influence on the development of medical informatics globally through his discoveries while at Columbia University’s Department of Biomedical Informatics. Topic Infectious Diseases The Lancet Features Our Narratives of Discovery Series The Irving Institute is proud to announce the publication of our narrative medicine partnership with Dr. Rita Charon. Topic General Medicine Article 4: Wendy Chung A narrative medicine article by Rita Charon, interviewing geneticist and pediatrician Wendy Chung - A series call Narratives of Discovery, in partnership with The Irving Institute at CU Topic Genetics Latest News Article 3: Nabila El-Bassel September 8, 2021 A narrative medicine perspective on leading global health expert Dr. El-Bassel, as she discusses her inspirations and approach. Topic Public Health Article 2: Andrea Califano July 21, 2021 A narrative medicine interview of Andrea Califano by Rita Charon, exploring the art of biology. Topic Research Article 1: Gordana Vunjak-Novakovic March 22, 2021 As a professor of biomedical engineering and director of research for stem cell and tissue engineering at Columbia University, Gordana Vunjak-Novakovic has a profound and poetic approach to her work. Topic Research Columbia University Irving Medical Center NewYork-Presbyterian ColumbiaDoctors About Us Services and Programs Our Impact Join a Study Contact Columbia University 630 West 168th Street New York, NY 10032 United States Follow Us YouTube LinkedIn Twitter Facebook Back to top