Skip to Main Content Brown University News from Brown Site Navigation Featured Events For Journalists Search Menu Health and Medicine Breadcrumb Home News from Brown News Search News Archive 2022 2021 2020 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 All Previous Years Subscribe to our weekly newsletter 427 Results based on your selections. Health and Medicine Brown physician, medical student urge stronger federal support for overdose prevention centers May 23, 2022 Elizabeth Samuels, an assistant professor at the Warren Alpert Medical School, and medical student Aneeqah Naeem argued for federal action supporting harm reduction centers such as those authorized in Rhode Island. Read Article Open details for Brown physician, medical student urge stronger federal support for overdose prevention centers Health and Medicine In student address, medical school graduate to reflect on finding strength in uncertainty May 16, 2022 Adriel Barrios-Anderson, who served as a student orator upon earning his bachelor’s degree from Brown in 2017, hopes to inspire newly minted M.D.s to feel confident about embracing the uncertainty of the future. Read Article Open details for In student address, medical school graduate to reflect on finding strength in uncertainty Health and Medicine ‘This was our moment’ — medical students embrace non-traditional timing for long-standing white coat tradition May 3, 2022 The Warren Alpert Medical School’s Class of 2024 celebrated together at an in-person white coat ceremony that was held two years later than usual, but still felt timely. Read Article Open details for ‘This was our moment’ — medical students embrace non-traditional timing for long-standing white coat tradition Health and Medicine Celebrating 50 years of medicine at Brown, by honoring the past and embracing the future April 29, 2022 Members of the Warren Alpert Medical School community, including graduates from classes ranging from 1972 to 2022, gathered to commemorate the history and look to the future of Rhode Island’s first and only medical school. Read Article Open details for Celebrating 50 years of medicine at Brown, by honoring the past and embracing the future Health and Medicine Postpartum insurance loss decreased during COVID-19 pandemic, study finds April 22, 2022 Brown researchers found that temporary changes to Medicaid eligibility meant that women who were due to lose coverage 60 days after giving birth were able to stay on their plans. Read Article Open details for Postpartum insurance loss decreased during COVID-19 pandemic, study finds Health and Medicine For young adults, mindfulness habits for life and the promise of better mental, physical health April 12, 2022 In ‘The Mindful College Student,’ Eric Loucks, director of Brown’s Mindfulness Center, teaches essential mindfulness skills to help young adults flourish during this transition period and throughout their lifetime. Read Article Open details for For young adults, mindfulness habits for life and the promise of better mental, physical health Health and Medicine Communicating for impact: Public health students get comfortable talking about why their work matters April 7, 2022 A poster conference during National Public Health Week offered Brown public health students the opportunity to discuss the significance of their research to the community — and to their own educational experience. Read Article Open details for Communicating for impact: Public health students get comfortable talking about why their work matters Health and Medicine Brown med school students elevate health care for Rhode Island’s underserved and underinsured March 30, 2022 At Providence’s Clínica Esperanza and the Rhode Island Free Clinic, student volunteers from the Warren Alpert Medical School work tirelessly to improve not only health care but the health care system. Read Article Open details for Brown med school students elevate health care for Rhode Island’s underserved and underinsured Health and Medicine Ronald Aubert to serve as interim dean of Brown’s School of Public Health March 25, 2022 An epidemiologist with unique and varied public health experience, Aubert will serve as interim dean while Dr. Ashish Jha is on short-term leave for an assignment leading the nation’s COVID-19 response. Read Article Open details for Ronald Aubert to serve as interim dean of Brown’s School of Public Health Health and Medicine Celebrating in-person with family and friends, 144 physicians-to-be match to medical residencies March 18, 2022 At Match Day, members of the Warren Alpert Medical School’s Class of 2022 were placed in medical residency programs across the country and right in Providence. Read Article Open details for Celebrating in-person with family and friends, 144 physicians-to-be match to medical residencies Health and Medicine President Biden appoints Dr. Ashish K. Jha to White House role to lead nation’s COVID-19 response March 17, 2022 The dean of Brown’s School of Public Health, a globally recognized expert on pandemic preparedness and response, will take leave for a temporary assignment to serve in the critical federal government role. Read Article Open details for President Biden appoints Dr. Ashish K. Jha to White House role to lead nation’s COVID-19 response Health and Medicine University to celebrate impact, history of ‘50 Years of Medicine at Brown’ March 15, 2022 A kickoff event on Friday, April 29, will begin a 15-month celebration of the Warren Alpert Medical School’s evolution and its plans for the future. Read Article Open details for University to celebrate impact, history of ‘50 Years of Medicine at Brown’ Health and Medicine Brown researcher to lead $16M grant to explore potential cause, treatment for Alzheimer’s disease March 10, 2022 Led by principal investigator John Sedivy, a multi-university effort will build on recent discoveries about mechanisms of aging to understand causes and potential treatments for neurodegenerative diseases. Read Article Open details for Brown researcher to lead $16M grant to explore potential cause, treatment for Alzheimer’s disease Health and Medicine Powered by students, focused on patients — assisting Rhode Islanders through Connect for Health March 7, 2022 As volunteers with Lifespan’s Connect for Health program, dozens of Brown students each year link patients in need with available resources, with the ultimate goal of improving physical health and well-being. Read Article Open details for Powered by students, focused on patients — assisting Rhode Islanders through Connect for Health Health and Medicine COVID-19 has taken heavy toll on health workers and systems, Brown physician-scientist tells Congress March 2, 2022 Dr. Megan Ranney, a practicing emergency physician and academic dean of Brown’s School of Public Health, told a U.S. House committee that the nation can learn from the past to build stronger, more viable health care systems. Read Article Open details for COVID-19 has taken heavy toll on health workers and systems, Brown physician-scientist tells Congress Health and Medicine Suspending syringe services programs will result in an increase of HIV infections, study finds February 28, 2022 Using a simulation modeling approach, Brown researchers estimate that closing syringe services programs, even for one year, will cause cases of HIV to rise. Read Article Open details for Suspending syringe services programs will result in an increase of HIV infections, study finds Health and Medicine At community health clinic in Providence, improving access and care for LGBTQ+ patients February 11, 2022 Founded by Brown faculty members Dr. Amy Nunn and Dr. Philip Chan, Open Door Health is lowering barriers to health care by providing culturally congruent LGBTQ+-focused care. Read Article Open details for At community health clinic in Providence, improving access and care for LGBTQ+ patients Health and Medicine In Medicaid managed care plans, minority group members report lesser care than white enrollees February 8, 2022 A study led by Brown University researchers found significant racial and ethnic disparities in patient care experience among enrollees of Medicaid managed care plans. Read Article Open details for In Medicaid managed care plans, minority group members report lesser care than white enrollees Health and Medicine Brown researchers develop new model to investigate fibrosis treatments without use of animals February 1, 2022 A new 3D connective tissue model gives researchers a sophisticated tool to understand the underlying mechanisms of connective tissue disorders and test potential treatments. Read Article Open details for Brown researchers develop new model to investigate fibrosis treatments without use of animals Health and Medicine A faith-based approach to ensuring Alzheimer’s research applies to all Rhode Islanders January 20, 2022 Brown University researchers are partnering with faith-based leaders in Providence to increase participation of Black community members in Alzheimer’s prevention studies. Read Article Open details for A faith-based approach to ensuring Alzheimer’s research applies to all Rhode Islanders Health and Medicine Integrated health system will increase economic impact of R.I.’s academic medicine sector, analysis finds January 11, 2022 An independent report from Tripp Umbach commissioned by Brown University concludes that closer integration of health systems, physician practices and research can create significant economic and societal gains. Read Article Open details for Integrated health system will increase economic impact of R.I.’s academic medicine sector, analysis finds Health and Medicine Study of vaccinated cancer patients with breakthrough COVID-19 shows 13% mortality rate January 7, 2022 Brown University researchers are part of a consortium tracking the impact of COVID-19 on patients with cancer. Read Article Open details for Study of vaccinated cancer patients with breakthrough COVID-19 shows 13% mortality rate Health and Medicine Grants totaling $4.6 million support the use of machine learning to improve outcomes of people with HIV December 20, 2021 In partnership with Moi University in Kenya, Brown University will develop, test and launch data-driven tools to maximize the effectiveness of HIV care programs. Read Article Open details for Grants totaling $4.6 million support the use of machine learning to improve outcomes of people with HIV Health and Medicine Advancing health care and the R.I. economy — leaders, experts discuss proposed academic health system December 15, 2021 Brown, Lifespan and Care New England leaders joined U.S. Sen. Sheldon Whitehouse and other experts in a virtual discussion on the potential for an integrated system to provide world-class care for the people of Rhode Island. Read Article Open details for Advancing health care and the R.I. economy — leaders, experts discuss proposed academic health system Health and Medicine Researchers develop an RNA-based breath test to detect COVID-19 December 14, 2021 The Bubbler, a breathalyzer device that reverse-transcribes RNA from airborne SARS-CoV-2 in breath, predicts lower respiratory tract involvement and is less invasive than alternative testing approaches, researchers say. Read Article Open details for Researchers develop an RNA-based breath test to detect COVID-19 Health and Medicine Student entrepreneurs at Intus Care harness power of data to improve health care for the elderly December 9, 2021 Making the most of opportunities for entrepreneurship support at Brown, four undergraduates combined their distinctive skills, talents and experiences to change how health care is provided to vulnerable patients. Read Article Open details for Student entrepreneurs at Intus Care harness power of data to improve health care for the elderly Health and Medicine $25 million gift to Brown to accelerate discovery at renamed Legorreta Cancer Center December 9, 2021 Generous support from the Legorreta family will propel plans for a world-class, nationally designated cancer center at Brown that will turn basic science into treatments for patients in Rhode Island and beyond. Read Article Open details for $25 million gift to Brown to accelerate discovery at renamed Legorreta Cancer Center Health and Medicine People of color, women and those with health conditions among veterans at high risk of food insecurity November 11, 2021 New findings about military veterans at the highest risk for food insecurity can help connect them to food they need for good health and inform interventions to address the larger, long-term issue. Read Article Open details for People of color, women and those with health conditions among veterans at high risk of food insecurity Health and Medicine Study offers insights on why the elderly are more susceptible to COVID-19 November 8, 2021 New research reveals the cellular mechanism behind why the elderly, as well as those with certain overlapping diseases, are at risk of infection and death from the virus — and how this mechanism can potentially be used to protect them. Read Article Open details for Study offers insights on why the elderly are more susceptible to COVID-19 Health and Medicine Brown researchers, local partners aim to reduce disparities in COVID-19 vaccination, testing October 22, 2021 New federal grants totaling $1.4 million are supporting a partnership between Brown, Progreso Latino, the Rhode Island Quality Institute and others to address barriers to testing and vaccination among high-risk populations. Read Article Open details for Brown researchers, local partners aim to reduce disparities in COVID-19 vaccination, testing Health and Medicine Physician-scientist Dr. Mukesh K. Jain appointed dean of medicine and biological sciences at Brown October 20, 2021 A cardiovascular specialist and health care leader at University Hospitals and Case Western Reserve University in Cleveland, Dr. Jain will lead biomedical research and education, and serve as Warren Alpert Medical School dean. Read Article Open details for Physician-scientist Dr. Mukesh K. Jain appointed dean of medicine and biological sciences at Brown Health and Medicine Fewer patients sought treatment for kidney failure in early months of COVID-19 pandemic October 13, 2021 Substantially fewer patients initiated treatment for kidney failure in the beginning of the pandemic, a new study found, with Black patients in particular initiating treatment at significantly worse levels of kidney function. Read Article Open details for Fewer patients sought treatment for kidney failure in early months of COVID-19 pandemic Health and Medicine Depression rates tripled and symptoms intensified during first year of COVID-19 October 5, 2021 A new study found that people with lower incomes and who experienced multiple COVID-related stressors were more likely to feel the toll of the pandemic, as socioeconomic inequities in mental health continue to widen. Read Article Open details for Depression rates tripled and symptoms intensified during first year of COVID-19 Health and Medicine Novel cellular mechanism sheds light on causes of childhood developmental disorder September 22, 2021 New findings from a Brown research team about Christianson syndrome could eventually be used to inform therapeutic interventions for that disorder as well as for neurodegenerative conditions like Alzheimer’s disease. Read Article Open details for Novel cellular mechanism sheds light on causes of childhood developmental disorder Health and Medicine Men, jobless and people with mental health diagnoses most vulnerable in 2020 overdose spike September 17, 2021 New findings about the causes and characteristics of overdose deaths during the COVID-19 pandemic may be used to inform policies that could lower death rates even after COVID-19 is under control. Read Article Open details for Men, jobless and people with mental health diagnoses most vulnerable in 2020 overdose spike Health and Medicine 9/11 at 20: Ground zero doctor from Brown recalls ‘a singular event in history that brought us together’ September 9, 2021 Dr. Selim Suner led the Rhode Island Disaster Medical Assistance Team deployed to ground zero on Sept. 11, 2001, a group that included 14 volunteers from Brown’s medical school community. Read Article Open details for 9/11 at 20: Ground zero doctor from Brown recalls ‘a singular event in history that brought us together’ Health and Medicine With $4.9M from the CDC, Brown researchers to study COVID vaccine effectiveness in seniors September 8, 2021 The urgently needed research will be used to inform recommendations about vaccine booster shots for nursing home residents. Read Article Open details for With $4.9M from the CDC, Brown researchers to study COVID vaccine effectiveness in seniors Health and Medicine Dr. Ashish Jha: It’s time to ‘turn a public health moment into a public health movement’ September 2, 2021 In his first “State of the School” address, the dean of the Brown School of Public Health detailed an ambitious plan to learn and grow from the lessons of the COVID-19 pandemic. Read Article Open details for Dr. Ashish Jha: It’s time to ‘turn a public health moment into a public health movement’ Health and Medicine With first chief wellness officer, Brown’s medical school emphasizes well-being for future physicians August 26, 2021 As the inaugural chief wellness officer for the Warren Alpert Medical School, Kelly Holder is advising aspiring doctors to heal thyselves, and working to build programs and infrastructure to support that goal. Read Article Open details for With first chief wellness officer, Brown’s medical school emphasizes well-being for future physicians Health and Medicine Parisa Afsharian: Translating research into actionable health advice August 18, 2021 As a Hassenfeld Summer Scholar, Afsharian is researching the connection between language and health outcomes – and using her multilingualism to improve the health of families. Read Article Open details for Parisa Afsharian: Translating research into actionable health advice Health and Medicine Study shows how U.S. immigration policy can have domestic health effects July 30, 2021 Researchers designed an innovative way to measure the impact of the 2017 executive order suspending travel from seven Muslim-majority countries on the health of U.S. residents from those nations. Read Article Open details for Study shows how U.S. immigration policy can have domestic health effects Health and Medicine New guidelines intended to help health providers prevent gun injuries and deaths July 26, 2021 A team of clinicians, researchers and educators, including Brown physician-scientist Dr. Megan Ranney, established new guidelines on educating health care professionals about how to help prevent firearm injuries. Read Article Open details for New guidelines intended to help health providers prevent gun injuries and deaths Health and Medicine Brown to fund four biomedical technologies with potential for patient benefit, commercial viability July 6, 2021 Now in its third funding cycle, Brown Biomedical Innovations to Impact will award four faculty projects to accelerate promising medical solutions into commercial technologies. Read Article Open details for Brown to fund four biomedical technologies with potential for patient benefit, commercial viability Health and Medicine Conversations on COVID: Brown emergency medicine fellow in Nepal is fighting COVID-19 on multiple fronts June 17, 2021 Dr. Ramu Kharel, a global emergency medicine fellow affiliated with Brown’s Center for Human Rights and Humanitarian Studies, went to Nepal to research emergency medicine and immediately immersed himself in the practice of it. Read Article Open details for Conversations on COVID: Brown emergency medicine fellow in Nepal is fighting COVID-19 on multiple fronts Health and Medicine Deaths of assisted living residents spiked during COVID-19 pandemic, study reveals June 14, 2021 A new study led by Brown researchers shows the crucial need for specific attention to be paid to assisted living residences in response to pandemics and other emergencies. Read Article Open details for Deaths of assisted living residents spiked during COVID-19 pandemic, study reveals Health and Medicine After the FDA’s approval, what to know about the new Alzheimer’s drug June 11, 2021 Dr. Stephen Salloway, associate director of Brown’s new Center for Alzheimer’s Research who led clinical trials for the recently approved aducanumab, explained the key takeaways from the FDA’s headline-making decision. Read Article Open details for After the FDA’s approval, what to know about the new Alzheimer’s drug Health and Medicine Top-rated Medicare Advantage plans perform worse for minority, low-income enrollees, study finds June 11, 2021 A new analysis by researchers at Brown University shows the association of Medicare Advantage star ratings with racial, ethnic and socioeconomic disparities in quality of care. Read Article Open details for Top-rated Medicare Advantage plans perform worse for minority, low-income enrollees, study finds Health and Medicine A half-decade of progress at the Hassenfeld Institute is a high five for children’s health June 10, 2021 Launched five years ago with an ambitious vision, the Hassenfeld Child Health Innovation Institute is bringing together researchers, physicians, students and community partners to transform children’s health in Rhode Island and beyond. Read Article Open details for A half-decade of progress at the Hassenfeld Institute is a high five for children’s health Health and Medicine The Hassenfeld Study shows how a mother’s data can help countless children June 10, 2021 A long-term study of mothers and babies, run by the Hassenfeld Child Health Innovation Institute, engages Rhode Island families in research that has the ability to make an outsize impact on children’s health. Read Article Open details for The Hassenfeld Study shows how a mother’s data can help countless children Health and Medicine Making mindfulness meditation more helpful starts with understanding how it can be harmful May 18, 2021 A study led by Willoughby Britton, an associate professor of psychiatry and human behavior at Brown, shows the importance of defining and measuring the adverse effects of mindfulness. Read Article Open details for Making mindfulness meditation more helpful starts with understanding how it can be harmful Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown Social Navigation Facebook Instagram LinkedIn Snapchat Twitter YouTube Social Media Directory © Brown University Brown University For You Current Students Faculty Staff Parents & Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Featured Events For Journalists Topics Arts and Humanities Environment Health and Medicine News and Events Science and Technology Social Sciences Student Life University Initiatives Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation About Events For You Give to Brown All of Brown.edu People News Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Health and Medicine Open details for Health and Medicine Bookmark this Page