Skip to main content Skip to site menu Skip to Brown menu Skip to site search Information For: Current Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Brown University Enter search keyword About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life A to Z Index People Directory Insurance Student Property Insurance Information Insurance Student Property Insurance Information It is important for students to protect their personal property (stereos, cameras, calculators, personal computers, books and furniture). It is recommended that students have personal property insurance as the University does not provide insurance coverage for these items. There are several options for obtaining personal property insurance. Some students may have coverage under their family's homeowner's or renter's insurance. This can be confirmed by contacting your family's insurance agent. It is also possible to purchase insurance for student owned property. Three companies that offer this type of insurance coverage are listed below. All of these companies offer coverage for students living on-campus and for those renting apartments off campus. Gallagher Student Health Personal Property https://www.gallagherstudent.com/products/personal-property-insurance CSI Insurance Agency, Inc 1-888-411-4911 http://www.collegestudentinsurance.com National Student Services, Inc. 1-800-256-NSSI http://www.nssi.com Students are advised to be pro-active in order to reduce the frustration and inconvenience resulting either from theft or from damage caused by unanticipated accidents. For computers, the best way to minimize the disruption is to maintain regular backups of critical data. These backups should not be kept in the same location as the computer. A loss due to a water leak, for example, could potentially damage both the computer and the backup. Students should keep an inventory of their property, complete with serial numbers, as a way to prove ownership in the event they need to file a claim with an insurance company. For additional safety tips, visit the Department of Public Safety website. Home Staff Workers Compensation Auto Insurance Property Insurance Insurance Requirements for Suppliers Event Insurance Request Certificates of Insurance Guidelines for Transportation Associated with Academic Field Trips Policies Purchasing Services Print this Page Share this Page Strategic Purchasing, Contracts & Insurance Brown University Box 1845 Providence, RI 02912 Phone 401-863-1703 Fax 401-863-2208 [email protected] Brown University Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-1000 Maps & Directions / Contact Us / Accessibility © 2022 Brown University Connect: [email protected] Facebook Twitter YouTube iTunes U LinkedIn SnapChat Resources A to Z Index Career Opportunities Make a Gift People Directory Insurance Resources All Insurance Forms Obtaining Certificate of Insurance Facilities Management Claims Related Offices Purchasing Services Controller's Office