Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Division of Student Affairs Student Affairs Information for Employers Faculty and Staff Alumni Search BC.edu Links Career Center Menu Main Nav Career Center Meet With a Career Coach Back Back Close About Overview Meet Our Team Student Employment Contact and Visit Us Meet with a Career Coach Learning Outcomes Career Clusters Overview Career Exploration Business, Consulting, and Finance Communication, Arts, and Media Education, Nonprofit, and Social Service Government, Law, and Public Policy Healthcare and Nursing Science, Technology, and Engineering Jobs and Internships Overview Be Career Ready Internships Jobs Resumes Cover Letters Online Presence Networking Interviewing Evaluating an Offer and Salary Negotiation Graduate School Overview Applying to Graduate School Law School For Current Graduate Students Events and Programs Overview Event Calendar Careerfest Endeavor Schedule of Events Endeavor Fellows Endeavor Keynote Endeavor FAQs Information for Alumni Envision Designing Your Career Course Alumni Job Shadow Program Career Fairs and Networking Events Campus Recruitment Eagle Intern Fellowship Career Closet Praxis Summer Program Winter Break Challenge Illumination Awards Outcomes Resources Overview Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Handshake Guide Eagle Exchange Guide Meet With a Career Coach Close Directory A to Z Listing Search BC Career Center Search BC.edu Find pages or people Search Close Close Apply Visit Give Employers Faculty and Staff Alumni BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close Handshake Guide Home Resources Handshake Guide Resources Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Handshake Guide Eagle Exchange Guide Use Handshake Like a Pro From searching jobs and internships to making an appointment with a career coach, Handshake is your go-to tool for all things career at Boston College. The following guide will help you make the most of your Handshake account. Quick Links Handshake Handshake Blog Appointment Scheduler How To Guide Complete Your Profile & Customize Your Preferences Find Jobs and Internships Schedule Appointments with Career Coaches RSVP for Events & Attend Virtual Career Fairs Discover Inclusive Employers Download Mobile App Sign-In Process for Alumni Complete Your Profile and Customize Your Preferences The key to success on Handshake is completing your profile and customizing your preferences. Once you fill out your profile, Handshake will curate a feed of jobs, internships, and events that match your interests and skills. Watch the below video for a step-by-step guide to setting up your profile and indicating your preferences. How to: To begin, log in to your Handshake account. If you’ve never logged in to Handshake, activate your account by logging in to the Handshake platform using your Agora Username and password. The activation process takes about 5 minutes. Customize your profile by clicking on the circle with your initials at the top right hand corner of your profile. Scroll down and click on “my profile”. Complete all sections of your profile, including work experience, courses, extracurricular activities, and more. Add a photo and summary to help your profile stand out. Fill out your interests and skills sections. This is key to employers discovering your profile. If you change your interests, you can update your profile at any time. Like your resume and LinkedIn profile, make sure to keep your profile up to date and relevant. Resources: The 3 Must-Haves on Your Handshake Profile The 10-Day Handshake Profile Challenge Handshake Student Account FAQs Find Jobs and Internships All of the top employers, including 100% of the Fortune 500, tech start-ups, nonprofits, and more are hiring students like you on Handshake. Use your Handshake account to find and apply to job and internship opportunities. How to: To find postings, log in to your Handshake account and click “jobs” at the top of your profile. Narrow down opportunities by using filters and keywords. Click on “interviewing on campus” to find postings linked to campus interviews. Once you find opportunities you’re interested in, save the postings by clicking on the blue save icon. Handshake will send you notifications and similar postings based on what you saved. You can save your resumes and cover letters in your profile to speed up the application process. To upload a document, click on the circle with your initials at the top right hand corner of your profile. Scroll down and click on “My Documents”. If you want to search for specific employers, click on the “Employers” link in the top menu. There you can type in the names of companies that you’d like to learn more about and see their open positions. You can also read reviews from students who previously worked there. You can follow employers you like and receive email alerts when these employers post new jobs and events on Handshake. Following employers also helps improve your job recommendations. View Postings Resources: How to Find the Jobs You Want on Handshake How to Find Great Companies to Work for on Handshake Schedule Appointments With Career Coaches Handshake is where you will schedule appointments with our career coaches. How to: To schedule an appointment, log in to your Handshake account and click “Career Center” in the top menu. This will bring you to the Boston College Career Center page. Click “appointments” to access the appointment scheduler page. You can directly access the appointment scheduler with this link. We recommend that you bookmark this link for quick reference. Appointment Scheduler Resources: Make an Appointment Meet Our Team RSVP for Events Handshake is where you will find all Boston College career events as well as relevant employer and local events. How to: To find an event, log in to your Handshake account and click “Events” in the top menu. Select “event search” to find a list of upcoming events. Use the filters to narrow down the list. Click on the event to find a description and register to attend. View Events Attend Virtual Career Fairs Handshake is also where you will register for and attend virtual career fairs. How to: To find an upcoming fair, log in to your Handshake account and click “Events” in the top menu. Filter by "Career Fairs." Click on the fair you want to learn more about. You will see a list of attending employers. Once registration opens, click on "Register." Once you register for the event, you will be able to schedule one-on-one and group sessions with employers. All schedules are booked on a first-come, first-served bases. We highly recommend you research employers on Handshake prior to the opening of registration so you are prepared to schedule your sessions. Discover Inclusive Employers There are many strategies that you can use to identify and pursue opportunities with inclusive employers in Handshake. The Career Center has developed a label system to identify inclusive employers. How to search for these employers in Handshake: Select “Employers” on the top menu of the page. On the employers page, you will see a section called “Filters.” Scroll down on the page to the last part of that section, called “Labels.” Click the box that says “Add labels” and a dropdown menu will appear. You will see that there are a number of different labels. From the options, select the label you’d like to filter for: Inclusive workplace: BIPOC (AHANA) Inclusive workplace: LGBTQ+ Inclusive workplace: People with Disabilities Inclusive workplace: Women Inclusive workplace: Forbes100 Once you select the label, the employers with the list label will appear alphabetically. You can then view their profiles and browse any open internships or jobs they are recruiting for. View Employers How did the Career Center decide which employers would receive labels? All employers that have been labeled as in inclusive workplace appear on one or multiple of the following resources: Best Employers for Diversity 2021 (Forbes) Best Places to Work for LGBTQ Equality 2021 (Human Rights Campaign) The 100 Best Workplaces for Diversity 2019 (Fortune) Please note this is by no means exhaustive, and there are many employers outside of this list who demonstrate an inclusive workplace. By drawing from the above resources, the Career Center can ensure that our information about these inclusive workplaces is reliable and unbiased. For this reason, we do not add these labels to employers in Handshake at the suggestion of staff, employers or students. However, you may always contact us to provide feedback about an employer as it relates to diversity, equity and inclusion. Download Mobile App Handshake currently provides an app for both iOS and Android, available for free in the respective app stores. You can use it to explore events, fairs, and jobs (favorite them and then apply), access On-Campus Interviews and add work experiences, organizations, and volunteering to your profile. You can also receive notifications for applications deadlines and messages from employers. How to: Search for "Handshake" on your app store. The app has a red icon. The app is free and you can download it directly to your phone. Search for "Boston College" in the blue search bar when you open the app. Select the "School Login" button and enter your Agora Username and Password to enter. Resources: How to Log in to Handshake Mobile About Handshake Mobile for iOS and Android Sign-In Process for Alumni Eligibility: Boston College alumni (with the exception of BC Law School alumni and Graduate Carroll School alumni starting with the class of 2020 and earlier) retain access to Handshake for 5-years post date of graduation. Alumni log-in is different from current students: Alumni log into Handshake using a personal email address on file with the University and use a Handshake specific password set by you. Prior to the termination of your BC email account or BC lifetime forwarding email access, we update your Handshake account with the most current personal email address we could find for your continued use. Step by Step: Step 1: If you hadn’t previously set a Handshake specific password or if you need to reset your Handshake specific password, use the forgot your password link. Agora log-in is no longer available for alumni use. If your personal email address is not found, email career.center@bc.edu for help. Please do not request a new Handshake account as this will only delay your access to Handshake. Step 2: Go to: bc.joinhandshake.com to log-in. Alumni will always log-in from this page. We recommend that you bookmark it now. Step 3: Click on the “sign in with your email address” hyperlink as shown in the image below. This will permit you to log-in using the personal email address associated with your BC Handshake Alumni account and the password that you set. 80% of students who share their interests receive a message from a recruiter on Handshake 16 million messages were sent by employers to students last year on Handshake Back To Top Back To Top Career Center Southwell Hall 38 Commonwealth Avenue Chestnut Hill, MA 02467 617-552-3430 About Departments & Programs How can we help you? Events Division of Student Affairs Division of Student Affairs BAIC BC Bands Business Service Center Career Center Counseling Services Graduate Student Life Health Promotion Health Services Residential Life Robsham Theater Student Conduct Student Involvement Student Outreach & Support Women’s Center Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College