Skip to main content Skip to main content My Account My Account Give Give Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. Navigate Search Skip to main content SMU Libraries Find & Borrow Research & Teaching Locations & Collections Visit SMU Libraries About Get Help Find & Borrow Find Books Journals & Newspapers Articles Films Music Scores & Recordings Borrow & Request Checkout & Renew Interlibrary Loan Request a Purchase Guest Services Alumni Services Research Card Research & Teaching Scholarship & Publishing GIS@SMU SMU Scholar Research Data Digital Scholarship Scholarly Impact & Publishing Copyright Teaching Support Library Materials for Courses Classroom Instruction Assignment Design Online Guides & Tutorials Locations & Collections Libraries Bridwell Library Business Library DeGolyer Library Fondren Library Hamon Arts Library Underwood Law Library Fort Burgwin Library Exhibits & Digital Collections Campus Exhibits Online Exhibits Digital Collections Special Collections & Archives Visit Visit Hours Maps & Parking Technology & Printing Policies Accessibility Spaces Places to Study Graduate Student Spaces Lockers Class & Event Spaces About About Us Staff Directory Dean's Office Equity, Diversity, Inclusion & Accessibility Faculty & Student Awards Join Us Staff & Student Employment Internships Student Advisory Board Friends of SMU Libraries Connect with Us News Events Social Media Contact Us Get Help Ask Us (email, chat, text, call) Research Guides by Discipline How Do I . . . ? Guides Find Your Librarian Attend Workshops Writing Support ☰ Libraries Find Find Books Find Books Discover Books in Our Libraries SMU Libraries has print and electronic books. Use Library Search to discover books by title, topic, keywords, author, and more. Look for the filter for books on the left side of your results screen. Learn more about filtering and searching by subject in our Library Search Help Research Guide. Locate Books on the Shelf Find the library location and call number in the Library Search record under “Get It.” A call number signals the book’s location on the shelf. Call numbers are arranged alphabetically. Each shelf is marked with the range of call numbers it holds. SMU Libraries Building Maps Some books are only available to use in the library and can’t be checked out. The record will note that it is “limited access” or “non-circulating”. You may need to ask at the holding library’s desk. Special Collections often require an appointment to see materials. Find Books on Course Reserve Instructors can put books on course reserve for their classes, which allows you to check out books for use inside the library for a limited period of time. Use advanced search and choose “Search for Course Reserves” at the top of the page to find books that have been placed on reserve. You can search by instructor name, course code, or book title. Course Reserves Library Search Course reserves are located at the main desk of each library. You cannot place holds on course reserves. Find Books in Other Libraries You can discover books held by other libraries in WorldCat. We are part of a sharing program that allows us to borrow materials from other libraries called Interlibrary Loan. To request a book we don’t have, click on “Request SMU Interlibrary Loan” in the record from the WorldCat search results. Learn how to search in WorldCat. TexShare cards give you borrowing privileges at more than 500 libraries across Texas. Learn more about TexShare for SMU. Dallas Public Library allows you to get a library card with your SMU ID so that you may check out materials. Find Find Books Find Journals & Newspapers Find Articles Find Films Find Music FAQ view all Related Interlibrary Loan Place a Hold Curbside Pickup Request a Purchase Maps & Directions | Contact Us | Feedback Accessibility | Legal Disclosures © SMU Libraries, PO Box 750135, Dallas, TX 75275 twitter facebook instagram linkedin youtube share