Skip to content Skip To Keyboard Navigation Toggle navigation Policy Library About Policy Books Academic Affairs Business & Finance Campus Use & Facilities Employment Faculty Handbook Information Technology Legal Records & Publications Research Student Life Updated Policies New Policies Policy Resources Policy Development Master Glossary Policy FAQs Policy Owner Policy Identification Form Campus Stakeholder Feedback Policy Announcements Contact Us Search Search form Enter your keywords You are here: GT Home Home Campus Use & Facilities Catering Providers Policy Printer-friendly version Type of Policy: Administrative Effective Date: July 2005 Last Revised: October 2020 Review Date: October 2023 Policy Owner: Auxiliary Services, Technology Support Contact Name: Kira Freeman Contact Title: Assistant Director Contact Email: kira.freeman@gatech.edu Reason for Policy: The purpose of this policy is to define the Institute’s catering requirements. Georgia Tech’s Primary and Secondary Caterers are limited in an effort to ensure safe, high-quality products and services are available for a wide variety of campus needs. Policy Statement: 2.1 In all cases, the procurement of catering services must be an approved expense, subject to the State of Georgia and Georgia Tech policies. 2.2 For all catering purchases over $400 for events on Georgia Tech property, only the Primary and Secondary Caterers may be used. For catering in the Student Center, Student Center Commons, and West Village Dining Commons, event sponsors must utilize the Primary Caterer. A list of the Primary and Secondary Caterers can be found at: https://specialevents.gatech.edu/resources/catering. 2.3 For catering purchases under $400, any licensed food service provider may be used, including licensed caterers under contract with Georgia Tech, or other providers at the choice of the event sponsor. 2.4 Secondary caterers are selected through a Request for Proposal bid process every five years. 2.5 Payment for catering services through Georgia Tech Accounts Payable will be authorized only for the Primary and Secondary Caterers for purchases over $400, or when the Catering Provider Exemption Form has been approved by Auxiliary Services. Payment is subject to relevant Georgia Tech, USG, Student Government Association policies, and registered student organization policies. 2.6 Event sponsors, Primary and Secondary Caterers are required to comply with stipulations set by the Georgia Tech building managers and/or event space contacts to ensure building and participant safety. Event sponsors retain the responsibility to determine furniture, power and adequate lighting of facilities in which catered events are held. 2.7 Primary and Secondary Caterers will be responsible for timely and appropriate set-up and restoration of the area including, but not limited to cleaning and sanitation of the area, furniture rearrangement, removal of equipment, trash removal and repair of any facility damage caused by the Caterer. Exemptions 2.8 In cases when the Primary and Secondary Caterers cannot meet the needs of an event, a request for an exemption can be made by completing the Catering Provider Exemption Form. The Catering Provider Exemption Form must be submitted at least three (3) weeks prior to the date of the event and advance written approval is required. If the exemption is approved, the caterer is required to pay a commission to Georgia Tech. Additional commission information can be found on the Catering Exemption Request Form. 2.9 In cases when a licensed food service provider or retailer has agreed to donate prepared food for an event, the Catering Provider Exemption Form must be submitted at least three (3) weeks prior to the date of the event and advance written approval is required. Alcohol cannot be donated. Donors may be required to provide a donation letter, supplemental insurance, and/or other documentation to ensure proper assessment of risk and liability. 2.10 Locations with Special Stipulations Some campus locations may have special circumstances that allow exemptions from the campus catering policy. When planning an event at the following locations, please contact the building manager and/or event space contact for the building catering policy: Georgia Tech Athletic Association Facilities Georgia Tech Research Institute Conference Center Global Learning Center Historic Academy of Medicine Kendeda Building Scope: This policy applies to all units of the Institute. Policy Terms: Primary Caterer The Primary Caterer is Georgia Tech Catering. Secondary Caterers Secondary Caterers are vendors who have been selected through the RFP process to become a GT approved caterer. A list of Secondary Caterers can be found here. Form Links: Catering Exception Request Frequently Asked Questions: Where can I find the list of approved caterers? Where can I find information about menus for the Primary Caterers? Where can I find information about menus for Secondary Caterers? Responsibilities: Auxiliary Services Auxiliary Services is responsible for ensuring compliance with this policy. Catering Provider Exemption Forms and supporting documentation as outlined on the form should be submitted to the Assistant Director of Auxiliary Services at ask.aux@gatech.edu. Enforcement: Failure to follow this policy may result in the following consequences: Catering invoice rejected by Georgia Tech Purchasing Department Noncompliant caterer being removed as a service provider at Georgia Tech To report suspected instances of ethical violations, please visit Georgia Tech’s Ethics Helpline, a secure and confidential reporting system, at: https://secure.ethicspoint.com/domain/en/report_custom.asp?clientid=7508 Related Information: Georgia Tech Building and Event Space Contacts GTAA Facilities GTRI Conference Center Historic Academy of Medicine Kendeda Building Procurement of Group Meals for Employees, Students, and Official Visitors Meals and Incidental Travel Expenses Campus Alcohol Policy Student/Student Organizations Alcohol Policy Primary and Secondary Caterers Policy History: Revision Date Author Description October 2020 Auxiliary Services Updated exemption limit. February 2015 Auxiliary Services Contact Info Updated September 2014 Bob Junko, Student Center Associate Director, Business Policy update July 2014 Kira Freeman Auxiliary Operations New campus caterer addition ‹ Procedures for Animal Exhibit/Petting Zoos for Georgia Tech Events- On or Off campus up Environmental Health and Safety › Policy Books Academic Affairs Business & Finance Campus Use & Facilities Bicycle and Personal Mobility Devices Use Policy Brand Identity Standards Campus Alcohol Policy Campus Services Campus Use Catering Providers Policy Environmental Health and Safety Facility Planning / Plant Operations Filming and Photography on Campus Freedom of Expression Policy and Campus Use Procedures Fuel Card Use Policy Insurance and Claims Management Low Speed Vehicle Policy and Golf Cart Policy Mandatory Reporting of Child Abuse Policy Minors in Laboratories, Hazardous Areas and Animal Facilities Motor Vehicle Maintenance Policy Youth Programs Policy Employment Faculty Handbook Information Technology Legal Records & Publications Research Student Life Resources Georgia Tech Resources Offices & Departments News Center Campus Calendar Special Events GreenBuzz Institute Communications Visitor Resources Campus Visits Directions to Campus Visitor Parking Information GTvisitor Wireless Network Information Georgia Tech Global Learning Center Georgia Tech Hotel & Conference Center Barnes & Noble at Georgia Tech Ferst Center for the Arts Robert C. Williams Paper Museum Division of Administration and Finance Campus Services Facilities Management Institute Planning and Resource Management Legal Affairs and Risk Management Office of Information Technology Strategic Consulting Legal Affairs and Risk Management Affiliated Organizations Georgia Tech Police Department Internal Auditing Legal Affairs Employee Resources Budget Planning Emergency Preparedness EthicsPoint Hotline Human Resources Institutional Research and Planning Parking Procurement and Business Services TechWorks Compliance and Policy Management 760 Spring Street N.W. Suite 324 Phone: 404-385-0731 Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue, Atlanta, GA 30332 404.894.2000 Directory Employment Emergency Information Enable Accessibility Legal & Privacy Information Human Trafficking Notice Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Hazing Public Disclosures Accessibility Accountability Accreditation © Georgia Institute of Technology Login