Your browser does not support iframes. Skip to main content Menu Scheller College of Business Request More Information Attend an Info Session Contact Us Directory Apply Now Search Why Scheller? Programs Executive Education Academics Centers & Initiatives News & Events Overview & History Dean's Message and Report Meet Ernest Scheller Jr. Advisory Board Accreditation Strategic Plan Business at Tech Graduates Get Hired Return on Investment Faculty and Advisors Global Perspective A Good Fit Corporate Engagement Trading Floor Georgia Tech Community Student Life Making Connections and Learning Opportunities Diversity Diversity News Career and Recruiter Services Career Services for Students Hire Our Students Giving to the College Meeting the Challenge Priorities and Needs Faculty Support Student Support Program Enrichment Unrestricted Endowment The Impact of Your Gift How to Make a Gift FAQs Scheller MBA Annual Fund Alumni Network Alumni News Alumni Resources Update Contact Information Visit Campus Tech Square and Atlanta Full-time MBA Admissions Curriculum Career Development Leadership Development Student Organizations Student & Alumni Profiles Meet an MBA Ambassador FAQsEvening MBA Admissions Curriculum Career Advancement Leadership Development Student Organizations Student & Alumni Profiles Meet an MBA Ambassador FAQs Executive MBA Admissions Curriculum Career Development Student & Alumni Profiles FAQsMBA Programs Which Georgia Tech MBA is Right for Me? Commitment to Diversity, Inclusion, and Equity Dual Degree Options Experiential Learning For Engineers For Military Community MD/MBA Option MBA Early Admission for Undergrads Rankings The Intersection Podcast Earn Your MBA in Atlanta Graduate Certificate Business Analytics Certificate Undergraduate Admissions Curriculum Career Services Student Services Student Life Scholarships & Awards Rankings & Stats Connect With Us The Intersection Podcast, Undergrad PhD Concentrations Program Milestones Faculty and Staff Funding Admissions FAQs Recruiting Events Student Bios Program News Request Program Information Interdisciplinary M.S. M.S. in Quantitative & Computational Finance (QCF) Master of Science in Analytics at Georgia Tech Lean Six Sigma Certification Lean Six Sigma Green Belt Certification Lean Six Sigma Black Belt Certification FAQs Custom Programs FAQs Accounting Finance Information Technology Management Law & Ethics Marketing Operations Management Organizational Behavior Strategy & Innovation Student Certificates Engineering Entrepreneurship Entrepreneurship International Management Management of Technology Technology Innovation: Generating Economic Results Academic Speaker Series Guest Speakers in Accounting Guest Speakers in Finance Guest Speakers in Marketing Current Faculty Opportunities Business Analytics Center Engage with Us Executive Council News Research Education People Cecil B. Day Program for Business Ethics About Cecil B. Day The Cecil B. Day Prize Speakers and Events Faculty Support Net Impact Center for International Business Education and Research Projects Research Events Books People at CIBER Inside CIBER News and Events Archives International Management Certificate Sign Up for Future CIBER News Financial Analysis Lab Subscribe to Reports Institute for Leadership and Social Impact About Us Programs News Impact Speaker Series Leadership for Social Good Study Abroad Program Social Impact Fellows Ideas to Serve (I2S) Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Servant Leadership Programs Minor in Leadership Studies Excel Alumni Other ILSI Programs Partnerships Program for Engineering Entrepreneurship Ray C. Anderson Center for Sustainable Business About Us Sustainable Business Insights Research Briefs Sustainable Business Events Sustainable Business News Blog Research & Thought Leadership Empowering Students Industry Engagement Newsletter Participating in the Drawdown Georgia Compact Drawdown Georgia Business Compact Meet the Team Alumni Steven A. Denning Technology & Management Program Director's Message About Steven A. Denning T&M Curriculum Program Faculty & Staff Admissions T&M Corporate Affiliates Denning T&M Program News TI:GER® and CDL-Atlanta Program Network TI:GER MBA & PhD FAQs News Apply Inquire Resources in Technology Innovation and Entrepreneurship Scheller News Event Calendar The Intersection Podcast Media Inquiry Marketing Innovation Conference @ Scheller Institute for Leadership and Social Impact Minor in Leadership Studies Home » Centers & Initiatives » Institute for Leadership and Social Impact » Minor in Leadership Studies » Minor in Leadership Studies Menu Institute for Leadership and Social Impact Minor in Leadership Studies Capstone Projects About Us Programs News Impact Speaker Series Leadership for Social Good Study Abroad Program Social Impact Fellows Ideas to Serve (I2S) Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Servant Leadership Programs Excel Alumni Other ILSI Programs Partnerships The Business track of the Minor in Leadership Studies is designed to provide students with in-depth knowledge of leadership theory, skills, and practical experience through a rigorous, multi-disciplinary program of study. There are three tracks in the program: Business, offered through the Institute for Leadership and Social Impact at the Scheller College of Business, Global Engineering, offered through the College of Civil and Environmental Engineering, and Public Policy, offered through the School of Public Policy at the Ivan Allen College of Liberal Arts. For more information on the other tracks, please click here: The Business track is administered by the ILSI and is open to all majors and is designed to provide students with in-depth knowledge of leadership theory, skills, and practical experience through a rigorous, multi-disciplinary program of study. It requires 15 hours of course work. Included in the coursework for the Business track is a "capstone course" where students working in small interdisciplinary teams apply their knowledge and skills towards designing a business solution for an organization. Program Information for the Business Track Eligibility and Requirements To be enrolled in the Leadership Minor program, you must have Completed 30 credit hours; A cumulative GPA of 2.5 or greater; Completed a formal application to the program and have been admitted to the program Coursework Required Courses PUBP 4140 - Foundations of Leadership, 3 credit hours. MGT 4611 - Integrative Management Analysis, 3 credit hours. Elective Courses You will need to take at least three elective courses from the list below, for a total of at least nine credits. Course Number Course Name Pre-Requisites MGT 3101 Organizational Behavior* None MGT 3103 Leadership - Changing Environments** MGT 3101 - Organizational Behavior OR MGT 3102 - Management of Human Resources OR MGT 3150 - Principles of Management MGT 3150 Principles of Management* None MGT 3662 Management in the Healthcare Sector None MGT 4072 Entrepreneurial Finance** MGT 3062 - Financial Management OR MGT 3078 - Finance and Investments MGT 4102 Management Consulting** MGT 3101 - Organizational Behavior OR MGT 3150 - Principles of Management MGT 4116 Gender & Ethnicity None MGT 4117 Global Workforce Management MGT 3102 – Management of Human Resources or MGT 3150 – Principles of Management MGT 4119 Leading Teams** MGT 3101- Organizational Behavior or MGT 3150 – Principles of Management MGT 4191 Entrepreneurship Forum* None MGT 4192 IMPACT Forum* None MGT 4193 Servant Leadership, Values, and Systems None MGT 4194 Social Entrepreneurship None MGT 4670 Entrepreneurship** MGT 3101 - Organizational Behavior or MGT 3150 - Principles of Management MGT 4803 Motivation and Rewards** MGT 3101 - Organizational Behavior OR MGT 3102 - Management of Human Resources MGT 4803 Corporate Governance** MGT 2106 - Legal Aspects of Business MGT 4803 Business Fundamentals for Social Entrepreneurs*** *Currently available only to participants of the Eastern Europe Study Abroad Program* * Students electing the Management Track can use either MGT 4191 or 4192, but not both. * Students electing the Management Track can use either MGT 3101 or 3150, but not both. ** These courses require the completion of pre-requisites. Please check OSCAR for up to date information. *** Students enrolled in the Eastern Europe Summer Study Abroad Program will receive credit towards the management track of the minor for the 9 credit hours that they complete as part of that program. Required Leadership Capstone Course Each student in the Management track must complete the Capstone course, MGT 4611 – Integrative Management Analysis (3 hours), which includes a project assigned to him/her by the course faculty. More Information about the Capstone Course Grade Requirements Students must earn a grade of C or higher for any course that is applied to the completion of the requirements for the minor. Overall, a student's GPA for all the minor courses averaged together must be 2.75 or higher. More Information Apply Now 02-22-2022 Meet the Black Founders of Scheller: Charles Spencer’s NSF-Funded Technology Teaches STEM Using DJ Equipment Read more Jun 07 12:00 pm-1:00 pm Executive MBA Webinar Info Session Attend this webinar to learn more about Georgia Tech Scheller's Executive MBA program. Valerie Mastrangelo Undergraduate Programs Manager Read bio Scheller College of Business Home Why Scheller? Overview & History Business at Tech Georgia Tech Community Career and Recruiter Services Giving to the College Alumni Network Visit Campus Tech Square and Atlanta Programs MBA Undergraduate PhD Interdisciplinary M.S. Executive Education Lean Six Sigma Certification Custom Programs Academics Accounting Finance Information Technology Management Law & Ethics Marketing Operations Management Organizational Behavior Strategy & Innovation Student Certificates Academic Speaker Series Current Faculty Opportunities Centers & Initiatives Business Analytics Center Cecil B. Day Program for Business Ethics Center for International Business Education and Research Financial Analysis Lab Institute for Leadership and Social Impact Program for Engineering Entrepreneurship Ray C. Anderson Center for Sustainable Business Steven A. Denning Technology & Management Program TI:GER® and CDL-Atlanta News & Events Scheller News Event Calendar The Intersection Podcast Media Inquiry Marketing Innovation Conference @ Scheller LinkedIn Instagram Facebook Twitter Youtube Flickr Georgia Institute of Technology Scheller College of Business 800 W. Peachtree St. NW Atlanta, GA 30308 404.894.2600 © 2022 Georgia Institute of Technology Intranet Emergency Information Contact the College Privacy & Legal Notice Accountability Web Accessibility Resources for People with Disabilities Plugins Youtube Usage Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Hazing Public Disclosures