Skip to main content Explore Sections open search open menu Close From the latest big breakthrough to the most influential and inspiring figures on campus to Pitt in the community, Pittwire is your official source for what’s happening now. Explore By Topics Health and Wellness Technology and Science Arts and Humanities Community Impact Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Global Innovation and Research Our City/Our Campus Explore By Category Features & Articles Accolades & Honors Ones to Watch Announcements and Updates Pittwire Other Links Pitt Magazine Event Calendar Social Media Directory Close Search Pitt Search Search for People Close Global Menu Apply Visit Give Pittwire Events Navigation Navigation About Academics Admissions Research Life at Pitt Athletics Colleges & Schools Colleges & Schools Arts & Sciences Business Computing & Information Dental Medicine Education Engineering General Studies Health & Rehabilitation Honors College Law Medicine Nursing Pharmacy Public & Intl Affairs Public Health Social Work Info For Info For Alumni Community Global Sustainability Twitter Instagram Facebook Youtube Close Search Pittwire Search Search www.pitt.edu Ones To Watch Filter By TopicsHealth and WellnessNASAUkraineUniversity NewsTechnology & ScienceArts and HumanitiesCommunity ImpactInnovation and ResearchGlobalDiversity, Equity, and InclusionOur City/Our CampusTeaching & Learning Year20122016201720182019202020212022 Search News Search News Asher Hancock This engineer wants to put autonomous vehicles in the sky. NASA Technology & Science Swanson School of Engineering Danielle Obisie-Orlu The Allegheny County Youth Poet Laureate with a 30-year plan. Arts and Humanities Global Undergraduate students Catherine Cavanaugh This nationally lauded scholar is helping Spanish speakers learn complex science. Students Kenneth P. Dietrich School of Arts and Sciences University Honors College Richard Su Fang One of two U.S. Presidential Scholars at Pitt. Students Kenneth P. Dietrich School of Arts and Sciences University Honors College Jim Withers His Street Medicine Institute provides “street rounds” and social services to people who live outdoors. School of Medicine Fodun Ologunde From summa cum laude to Apple Inc. software engineer. Technology & Science Swanson School of Engineering Lisa Coe Athlete. Activist. Leader. Kenneth P. Dietrich School of Arts and Sciences Pitt Prosthetists Making prosthetic limbs fit every amputee, from Navy SEALs to diabetes patients. School of Health and Rehabilitation Sciences Toya Jones Studying trauma and its impact. Health and Wellness Community Impact Tre Tipton This wide receiver and social work graduate student ’s journey has taken him from despair to LOVE—living out victoriously every day. Ashley Priore A rising senior, political strategist and top chess player who’s making bold moves. Arts and Humanities Community Impact Kenneth P. Dietrich School of Arts and Sciences Meet the undergraduate ‘rock star scientist’ named a 2022 Goldwater scholar Targeted outreach is bringing more students from rural Pennsylvania to Pitt Trending The University of Pittsburgh will compete for $10 billion in military health contracts Register now for Pitt’s 2022 Diversity Forum How do monarch butterflies know where to migrate? Subscribe to Pittwire Get the most interesting and important stories from the University of Pittsburgh. Subscribe Global Menu Apply Visit Give Pittwire Events About Academics Admissions Research Life at Pitt Athletics Quick Links & Resources Quick Links & Resources Accessibility Statement Careers Consumer Info/Achievement Contact Us Departments A-Z Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Find People Information Technology LGBTQ+ Nondiscrimination and Anti-Harassment Policy My Pitt Regional Campuses Regional Campuses Bradford Greensburg Johnstown Titusville Colleges & Schools Colleges & Schools Arts & Sciences Business Computing & Information Dental Medicine Education Engineering General Studies Health & Rehabilitation Honors College Law Medicine Nursing Pharmacy Public & Intl Affairs Public Health Social Work 4200 Fifth Ave. Pittsburgh, PA 15260 United States +1 412-624-4141 Twitter Instagram Facebook Youtube