Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Department of Philosophy Undergraduate Graduate People Research News & Events Resources Contact Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact Undergraduate Program Resources About Undergrad Courses The Online B.A. Advising Philosophy and Law Minor in Legal Thought and Liberal Arts Philosophy Circle Awards and Activities Take Action Apply to the Graduate Program Online B.A. 3+3 Accelerated BA/JD Program Minor in Legal Thought and Liberal Arts Support the Department Follow Us Online Facebook Home Philosophy Undergraduate Activities and Awards Activities and Awards The Philosophy Circle is a registered student organization for undergraduates (of any major) with an interest in philosophy. The "Circle" meets throughout the fall and spring semesters to present guest speakers, host discussions, and organize reading groups. In addition to its regular meetings, the Circle hosts an annual undergraduate conference each spring that coincides with the Midsouth Philosophy Conference. Philosophy majors are eligible to receive the Carroll R. Bowman Scholarship, awarded each year in memory of the late Professor Bowman to a philosophy major with demonstrated financial need and academic potential. Also, each spring the department also presents the Outstanding Senior Award to a graduating senior in philosophy. Seshat Prize The Philosophy Department at the University of Memphis is pleased to announce the inaugural Seshat Prize for Spring 2021, thanks to the generosity of an anonymous donor. Seshat was the ancient Egyptian goddess of wisdom and writing, and the prize will recognize the convergence of wisdom and writing in an essay. A prize of $1,250 will be awarded to the best graduate student essay. Two prizes, one of $700 and one of $400, will be awarded to the first and second best undergraduate student essays. Click here for a PDF. Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 7/1/21 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.