Skip to main content Skip to site menu Skip to Brown menu Skip to site search Information For: Current Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Brown University Enter search keyword About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life A to Z Index People Directory Student Accessibility Services Getting Around Campus Access Shuttle Student Accessibility Services Access Shuttle The daytime Access Shuttle service is a scheduled point-to-point accessible shuttle service that runs daily: (Eastern Standard Time) M-F - 7am-7pm, Saturday 9am-7pm, Sunday 11am-7pm. (Daylight Savings Time) M-F - 7am-5pm, Saturday 9am-5pm, Sunday 11am-5pm. Evening On-call shuttle hours listed on updated Transportation website below: https://www.brown.edu/about/administration/transportation/brown-university-shuttle Who can ride: Any enrolled student or empolyee with either a permanent or temporary medical, physical or mobility disability may request this service. It transports students and employees with permanent and temporary mobility concerns from point-to-point on campus and "nearby East Side" 0nly. Individuals will need to provide their own transportation for rides to other parts of Providence or the local region. Student please reach out to SAS with any questions about what the Access Shuttle can provide. 401-863-9588. Employees, please reach out to HR for assistance. (1-888-599-8576) How to register: If you are a Brown University student or employee needing mobility assistance from the Access Shuttle please call right away during daytime operating hours 401-225-9572 to request rides while the registration process is underway. Employees, please reach out to HR for assistance. (1-888-599-8576) Students will reach out to SAS to follow up to register. Please call SAS during weekday business hours 401-863-9588 with questions or can reach out to the Dispatcher during operating hours at the number above. Employees, please reach out to HR for assistance. (1-888-599-8576). Transportation Office Evening On-Call Service Please note that the Access Shuttle is NOT the Brown University On Call service which is available as a continuation of the Access Shuttle in the evenings. The On Call service can be reached at 401-863-1778 or http://shuttle.brown.edu/. Rides via the On Call service cannot be scheduled in advance. You do not need to be fully registered to utilize this support. You can utilize shuttle rides while the registration process is underway. To sign up for the shuttle, students must fill out an Access Shuttle Service Request Form. Supporting documentation regarding your disability will be requested in addition to this form. Student email [email protected] to request to regsiter for the Shuttle. Employees, please reach out to HR for assistance. (1-888-599-8576). Students will also need to submit a schedule of times when you will need rides, including the pick-up and drop-off points. Once your request is approved by the Dispatcher (401-225-9572), you will be added to the schedule within 24 hours. After that, you will be ready to ride! Employees, please reach out to HR for assistance. (1-888-599-8576). How does the service work? The Access Shuttle will pick you up and drop you off at previously arranged locations on-campus or "nearby" to campus. The time and place for each stop is tailored to your needs and determined by the requirements of your schedule. Service must be closely integrated and the service area limited so that the maximum number of students can be accommodated. Will the Access Shuttle shuttle take me anywhere I want to go? The purpose of the Access Shuttle is to provide on-campus mobility access. Requests for the Shuttle to transport to distant locations pulls it away from its primary purpose limiting access for individuals who need on-campus mobility. Because of these limitations the Access Shuttle can only take riders between points on campus or "nearby" to campus. Service must be closely integrated and the service area limited so that the maximum number of riders can be accommodated. Individuals will need to provide their own transportation for rides to other parts of Providence or the local region such as by bus, taxi, or ridesharing service. How do I make a change to the schedule? If the change is permanent, or if you need to make multiple changes that can affect an entire day, contact the Shuttle Dispatcher at 401-225-9572 or via email ([email protected]). Please try to give at least 24 hours notice. What about last minute changes? If you need to make a last-minute change regarding a specific pick-up on the same day, call or text the Shuttle Dispatcher directly at the number provided to you once you are elgible to ride. They are equipped with a cell phone and can work with you to make the necessary change. What if I miss my ride? Don’t worry – you won’t be stranded! Just call or text the shuttle dispatcher and you can arrange another pick-up. What about inclement weather? Call the safeRIDE infromation line at 863-2322 to find out if the safeRIDE onCall shuttle is running. During business hours you can also contact the SAS office at 863-9588. What are your responsibilities as a rider? Being on time to your pick-up points or notifying the driver if you will be late. Updating the Shuttle Dispatcher regarding changes in your schedule with at least 24 hours notice. Notifying SAS and the Dispatcher about any changes in your status such that you will no longer need to take the shuttle. Home Getting Around Campus Access Shuttle Parking Accommodations Registration Accommodations & Services Academic Accommodation Letter Notifications Graduate Student FAQ Faculty Report an Accessibility or Accommodation Concern Access or Accommodation Concerns Appeals Accessibility/Awareness Resources Emergency Planning Event Accessibility Financial Assistance for Evaluations or Coaching Library SAS Rooms Scheduling Support Groups & Events School of Professional Studies (SPS) Programs Print this Page Share this Page Student Accessibility Services Brown University Box Box P Providence, RI 02912 Phone 401-863-9588 Fax 401-863-1444 [email protected] Brown University Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-1000 Maps & Directions / Contact Us / Accessibility © 2022 Brown University Connect: [email protected] Facebook Twitter YouTube iTunes U LinkedIn SnapChat Resources A to Z Index Career Opportunities Make a Gift People Directory Web Links WebServices BrownSites Demo BrownSites Documentation Special Links Your Custom Links PAUR Media Relations Web Style Guide