Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Information For Search BC.edu Links Philosophy Department Menu Main Nav Philosophy Department Philosophy Department Contact Back Back Close About Overview Contact News and Notes Giving People Overview Open Positions Related Links Current Doctoral Students Current MA Students BC Directory Undergraduate Overview Major Minor Core in Philosophy Courses B.A/M.A. Program Perspectives Program Perspectives on Western Culture Modernism and the Arts Horizon of the New Social Sciences New Scientific Visions Perspectives Concentration in Philosophy Perspectives FAQ Giving to Perspectives PULSE Undergraduate Philosophy Association Dianoia Philosophy Journal Pilgrimage Course Pilgrimage FAQs Graduate Overview Master's Current Master's Students 5 Year BA/MA Joint MA Philosophy-Theology Doctoral Current Doctoral Students Spotlight on Former Students Law and Philosophy Dual Degree (JD/MA or JD/PhD) Courses Applying Information for Current Students Graduate Student Activities Reader's Series Conferences and Workshops Dissertation Titles Related Links Graduate Studies Handbook Current Doctoral Students Courses Research Overview Publications Scholarly Journals and Book Series Faculty Activities Lectures and Conference Series Advanced Research Seminar in Philosophy and Theology Fitzgibbons Lecture Series Boston Area Colloquium in Ancient Philosophy The Boston Colloquium in Medieval Philosophy LaBrecque Lectures in Medical Ethics Gasson Lectures Lonergan Institute Close Contact Directory A to Z Listing Search Morrissey College Search BC.edu Find pages or people Search Close Close BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close Philosophy Department Home Undergraduate Perspectives Program Perspectives Program Perspectives on Western Culture Modernism and the Arts Horizon of the New Social Sciences New Scientific Visions Perspectives Concentration in Philosophy Perspectives FAQ Giving to Perspectives Perspectives Program The Perspectives Program is a multi-year core program that offers courses for students who want to develop integrated answers to life’s enduring questions. Inspired by the Jesuit tradition of providing a humanist context for professional and scientific education, Perspectives courses seek to educate the whole person, and to help students develop skills in critical thinking and practical living. The Perspectives Program currently offers core courses that fulfill core philosophy and another core area of study: theology, arts and literature, social science or natural science. All Perspectives courses are year-long, 12-credit courses that study core and foundational texts. All sections are limited to 25 or fewer students. Class meetings often require small and large group discussions. Course assignments and requirements are tailored and assessed according to the traditional liberal arts of Grammar, Logic and Rhetoric: students will be expected to read closely, think critically, and write and speak clearly and persuasively. Most of the students in the program are first year students from across the colleges who take Perspectives on Western Culture, the course that pairs philosophy and theology. The other three Perspectives Program courses are Modernism and the Arts (philosophy, art and literature cores), Horizon of the New Social Sciences (philosophy and social science cores), and New Scientific Visions (philosophy and natural science cores). Full details for each course can be found by consulting the menu above. Questions about Perspectives can be directed to Prof. Chris Constas, Director of Perspectives. Living & Learning Interested in a more immersive experience? The Perspectives Living & Learning Community gives first year students an opportunity to participate in specialized programming which links to the Perspectives curriculum. We aim to create deeper relationships between students, faculty, and administrators, to develop a strong peer cohort. Learn More The Perspectives Concentration in Philosophy By taking more than one Perspectives course, students can pursue a Perspectives Concentration towards either a major or a minor in Philosophy. Students who complete any three Perspectives courses will, in addition to fulfilling various core requirements, fulfill the requirements for a minor in Philosophy. Students who complete all four Perspectives courses, plus two philosophy elective courses, fulfill the requirements for a major in Philosophy. Admission to the Perspectives concentration in philosophy comes at the end of the sophomore year. A minimum GPA of 3.50 will be required for admission. Any questions concerning the requirements for the concentration, or other opportunities and possibilities within the Perspectives Program, should contact Professor Kerry Cronin, Associate Director of Perspectives. A Model of Interdisciplinary Education The Perspectives Program is a multi-year core program that offers courses for students who want to develop integrated answers to life’s enduring questions. Inspired by the Jesuit tradition of providing a humanist context for professional and scientific education, Perspectives courses seek to educate the whole person, and to help students develop skills in critical thinking and practical living. Contact Director of the Perspectives Program Chris Constas christopher.constas@bc.edu Associate Director of the Perspectives Program Kerry Cronin croninki@bc.edu Back To Top Back To Top Philosophy Department Stokes Hall North 617-552-4570 Facebook Morrissey College of Arts and Sciences Gasson Hall 140 Commonwealth Avenue Chestnut Hill, MA 02467 About Undergraduate Graduate Faculty & Research Departments Contact Departments Art, Art History, and Film Biology Chemistry Classical Studies Communication Computer Science Earth and Environmental Sciences Economics Engineering English German Studies History Mathematics Music Philosophy Physics Political Science Psychology Romance Languages and Literatures Slavic & Eastern Languages and Literatures Sociology Theatre Theology Giving to Philosophy Apply Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College