Skip to main content Skip to primary site menu Google Tag Manager Search form Search Explore Brown University Search Global Navigation Learn More About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life Find A to Z Index People Directory Information for Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Top Destinations Global Brown Watson Institute Graduate School Alpert Medical School School of Public Health School of Engineering Global Brown Center for International Students Home About Incoming Students Undergraduate Students Graduate Students What to Bring Banking and Finances Cultural Adjustment Cell Phones Current Students GBC Programs & Events Semester Breaks and Summer Additional Resources Academic and Language Campus Life & Student Services Health Care & Insurance Immigration and Visas Working as a Student Providence and Rhode Island Life After Brown Site Navigation Home About Global Brown Lounge Meet Our Team Andrew Heald Stay in Touch! Incoming Students Undergraduate Students About the International Mentoring Program (IMP) International Undergraduate Orientation Fall 2022 Graduate Students What to Bring Banking and Finances Cultural Adjustment Cell Phones Current Students GBC Programs & Events Semester Breaks and Summer Additional Resources Academic and Language Campus Life & Student Services Health Care & Insurance Immigration and Visas Working as a Student Providence and Rhode Island Life After Brown GBC Programs & Events Below are descriptions of the different event series that are held within the Global Brown Center for International Students! All events are promoted through our newsletter and on our Facebook page. IMP Yearlong Events The International Mentoring Program hosts monthly events, such as IMP Gala, Karaoke Night, and Ice Cream Social to encourage first year undergraduate students and their mentors to connect throughout the year, but the events are open to all international students. IMP Yearlong events are organized by our IMP Coordinators. Cross Cultural Conversations Cross cultural conversations are a series of lunchtime events that bring together students to engage in dialogue about issues that pertain to the international student identity and its many intersections. CCCs are spaces that facilitate mutual understanding across identities and during challenging conversations. Past topics have included interracial relationships, imposter syndrome, and homesickness. CCCs are organized by our Cultural Programming Coordinators. International Education Week Taking place annually in the fall, IEW is a showcase of Brown’s multi-faceted international-ness. The week comprises of many events from international dinners across dining halls and events held by student groups to panels and workshops by university offices, all in an effort to showcase the global cultural offerings available at Brown and to develop an understanding of global citizenship in the context of College Hill. In 2019, IEW attendees tried their hands at Chinese calligraphy, made Turkish snacks, and played traditional Mexican games. Check out our IEW schedule for 2021! IEW is organized by our Cultural Programming Coordinators. International Festival Held on the main green every spring, the international festival is a celebration of global cultural diversity on Brown’s campus. From food and performances, to games and conversations, students gain an appreciation for the diverse cultural offerings available on campus. Attracting hundreds of people from Brown and the larger Providence community, this festival is the largest event the center puts on every year. International Festival is organized by our Cultural Programming Coordinators. A Day Away with the GBC Our popular monthly trips take international students to excursions to exciting destinations in New England. Trips are curated by the seasons. In the summer, we head to the beach, in the fall we hike and admire the autumn foliage or head to a farm. In winter, we go snow tubing, and in the spring, we’re off to a beautiful historic town nearby, or pet some alpacas. Activities vary every year, and we love taking in students’ recommendations for our next destination! These trips provide a great chance to discover the history, culture, and landscape beyond College Hill while bonding with new international friends. A Day Away is organized by our Community Programming Coordinators. Gather at the Globe Our community gatherings are on campus events that bring together the international student community responding to the ebbs and flows of the academic year. At the beginning of each semester we welcome back students with community gatherings filled with food, friends and fun. During midterm and final seasons we offer spaces for self-care during midterm and final seasons by holding painting workshops, free massages, and face masks. A Day Away is organized by our Community Programming Coordinators. End of Year Celebration At the end of the academic year we come together at a large banquet to celebrate the achievements of graduating international students. Our End of Year Celebration is organized by our Community Programming Coordinators. Current Students GBC Programs & Events Semester Breaks and Summer Global Brown Center for International Students Global Brown Center for International Students Campus Life & Student Services Box 1840 Page-Robinson Hall 312 69 Brown Street Providence, RI 02912 Phone: 401-863-6397 Email [email protected] Facebook Facebook Instagram Instagram Brown University Giving to Brown Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA 401-863-1000 Contact Us Maps Directions Career Opportunities Campus Safety Accessibility All Social Media © 2022 Brown University | Back to top