Skip to main content Skip to primary site menu Google Tag Manager Find: A to Z Index People Directory Learn More: About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life Information For: Current Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Information For: Current Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Brown University Native American and Indigenous Studies Brown About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life A to Z Index People Directory m.Brown.edu News Events Visit Campus Life Map Directory Brown Apps Safety About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life A to Z Index People Directory Native American and Indigenous Studies Initiative Undergraduate Undergraduate Students at Brown According to the Office of Institutional Research at Brown University, as of Fall 2019, there were 114 undergraduates who self-identified as American Indian and Alaska Native and 32 undergraduates who self-identified as Native Hawaiian or Pacific Islanders at Brown. See more of Brown University’s enrollment data here. Native American and Indigenous Studies Focus While we are developing the Native American and Indigenous Studies concentration, students can currently choose a focus in Native American Studies within the Ethnic Studies concentration, in the American Studies Department and Indigenous Studies within the Center for Latin America and Caribbean Studies. All concentrators develop individual focus areas in consultation with their faculty advisors. Each student’s program of study is organized around a set of core courses that help them identify the historical and theoretical questions to be investigated and provide the tools necessary to address those questions. Requirements for the Ethnic Studies Concentration 1. ETHN 1000 “Introduction to Ethnic Studies” 2. Any two courses from the ETHN 1200 “Topics in Ethnic Studies” or ETHN 1750 “Advanced Topics in Ethnic Studies” sequence, or similar electives in AMST, as approved by the advisor 3. Four classes (at least two in ETHN) that address the student’s focus area and that prepare them for the capstone experience. 4. ETHN 1650 methods class 5. An AMST 1700 Junior Seminar 6. ETHN 1900 the “Ethnic Studies Senior Seminar” Honors in the concentration requires two additional independent study courses (taken semesters 7 and 8) and the honors seminar (taken semester 6). Please consult the Honors Program page for more details. Courses taken toward the fulfillment of concentration requirements must be at or above the 1000 level. At the advisor's discretion, a student may count a single course below the 1000 level towards their requirements. This class must be taught by a core faculty member listed on the department's website and may be offered through another department. Requirements for the Latin American and Caribbean Studies (LACA) Concentration 1) Ten courses on Latin American, Caribbean, and/or Latinx subjects. These may be explicitly designated as LACA classes, but do not need to be. Up to two of these courses can be language learning classes. Relevant courses from study abroad may count toward this total. For double concentrators, up to two classes can count toward the course requirements of both LACA and another concentration. At least two different academic disciplines should be represented in the ten courses. The courses must include at least one survey course providing a comprehensive and comparative view of the region (examples include LACA 0100, HISP 0730, HIST 1381, HIST 0234, DEVL 1560, MUSC 0021, ANTH 1030, ANTH 1120, ANTH 1505, ECON 1570). Courses in which the student did substantial work on a Latin American, Caribbean or Latinx subject may count toward this total, even if the course as a whole has a more general subject matter. Concentrators should periodically update their courses on ASK and confirm with the Director of Undergraduate Studies that they are on track to meeting the coursework requirement. 2) Competence in a Latin American and/or Caribbean language. Competence in Spanish, Portuguese, French, Haitian Kreyol, Kaqchikel Maya, etc. may be demonstrated through a departmental test, AP credit, language courses at Brown or elsewhere, study abroad, etc; please contact the concentration advisor to confirm. (If the student’s primary area of study is the Anglophone Caribbean, a field language is not necessary.) 3) A capstone project. This may be a senior honors thesis or creative project, supervised by a primary advisor and a secondary reader; a non-honors research paper; or a reflective paper about non-academic work (such as service or foreign study) related to Latin America, the Caribbean, or the Latinx experience. The capstone project may be completed for honors if the student is eligible. Students undertaking a capstone project are encouraged to enroll in LACA 1900. Alternatively, they may elect to enroll in one or two semesters of independent study (LACA 1990, LACA 1991) with their thesis/project advisor. 4) An internship or volunteer service, located in the U.S. or overseas, for one semester or one summer. Work completed during study abroad may count toward this requirement. The service work will connect theory to practice, applying scholarly knowledge to social challenges. Students are encouraged to consult with the Swearer Center for Public Service for assistance finding a volunteer placement. Students should also meet with the DUS by the beginning of junior year to discuss their work plan for their service component. Upon completion of the internship or service work, students submit a brief summary report to the concentration advisor linking their experience to their scholarship, accompanied by a short letter from a supervisor confirming the completion of the work. Main menu Home Booking Spaces People NAISI Graduate Fellowship Course Offerings Undergraduate Events Resources NAISI E-Bulletin Archive Funding Requests Research Projects and Community Engagement Stay Informed Annual Reports Brown University Land Acknowledgment Mellon Grant Native American and Indigenous Studies Native American and Indigenous Studies Brown University 67 George Street Providence, RI 02912 Phone: 401-863-5972 Email [email protected] Facebook Facebook Instagram Instagram Resource Links A to Z Index Career Opportunities Make a Gift People Directory Giving to Brown Brown University Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-1000 Maps & Directions / Contact Us © 2022 Brown University Connect: [email protected] Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram iTunes U Google+ LinkedIn SnapChat