Skip navigation Information For: Current Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Brown University Brown Grad School About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life A to Z Index People Directory Graduate School News Community Announcement on Assistant Director of Graduate Academic Diversity Position Graduate School Skip to Navigation Community Announcement on Assistant Director of Graduate Academic Diversity Position February 16, 2022 The Graduate School is pleased to announce the appointment of Maija Hallsmith as the inaugural Assistant Director of Academic Diversity for the Graduate School. In this role she will be responsible for developing and building on work with graduate programs, faculty and students that advances recruitment, student academic success, and retention to promote increased diversity in all of Brown’s graduate programs. Read more. To achieve these goals Hallsmith will collaborate with program and diversity, equity and inclusion leaders across campus to facilitate the implementation of new and established initiatives focused on recruitment, retention, and community building among HUG graduate students. She will also develop data-driven metrics that will allow the Graduate School to effectively assess the impact of academic diversity initiatives, and to share and report its findings with the Office of Institutional Equity and Diversity. The quantitative and qualitative aspects of this new position will allow her to work effectively with both faculty and graduate students. The search committee, comprised of graduate students, faculty, and staff, noted Hallsmith’s exceptional communication and organizational skills as well as her passion for creating supportive spaces in which students can thrive. Hallsmith brings to the position many years of experience working collaboratively with colleagues across campus on initiatives and programming that have improved opportunities for graduate students. Hallsmith was previously the Diversity Initiatives Program Assistant for the Graduate School. Serving in this position, she built strong relationships with prospective and current students while playing a key role in the implementation of recruitment and retention events such as Preview Day and Graduate Student of Color Orientation. Her new position allows for increased engagement with faculty in areas of academic diversity, which is crucial given the increasing diversification of the student population. The Graduate School is currently working to fill her previous position. Home About the Graduate School Healthy Brown FAQs for Graduate Students Academics & Research Living & Resources Financing & Support Admitted Students & Orientation Application Information For Graduate Students For Faculty and Staff Brown University Brown University Graduate School Box 1867 Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-2600 Maps & Directions / Contact Us / Accessibility © 2022 Brown University Resources Graduate School Handbook Academic Code CareerLAB Brown University Writing Center Sarah Doyle Center for Women and Gender Sheridan Center for Teaching & Learning Top Destinations Admission Inquiry Form Commencement Five-Year Ph.D. Support Open Graduate Education External Funding Application Process International Applicants