Skip to main content HOME RESEARCH AREAS HEALTH TECHNOLOGY ENVIRONMENT CLOSE: MENU MORE IGB GIVE TO THE IGB RESEARCH DEI SERVICES GET ACQUAINTED PEOPLE NEWS ARCHIVES IGB CALENDAR SAFETY The Carl R. Woese Institute for Genomic Biology (IGB) is where science meets society - an interdisciplinary institute dedicated to transformative research and technology in life sciences using team-based strategies to tackle grand societal challenges. IGB Researchmore ... more ... IGB Calendarmore ... IGB People Find Researchers. more ... Engaging with the Public Through Science and Technology By engaging with the public through programs and events, publications, and citizen science efforts, we ensure that our work continues to be relevant and impactful, a force for positive change in the wider world. Our creative outreach and education programs expose people to transformative research and how we can use genomics to help solve preeminent problems faced by local and global communities. More ... more ... NEWS ARCHIVE // NIH BRAIN Initiative supporting development of a probe to monitor brain chemistry CCIL Researchers Receive Grainger College of Engineering Faculty Awards No photosynthetic improvement in ictB transformants in field-grown model crop Pedron Haba Named 2022 Minority and Minority-Serving Institution Faculty Scholar Douglas Mitchell named John and Margaret Witt Professor of Chemistry STEAM TRAIN 2022 adventure completed IGB RESOURCES // Take Action, Find Help, Download Docs Take Action » Give to the IGB New Employee Checklist Reserve Space Safety Training Get a Poster Printed Internal Documents Employment Opportunities COVID-19 Documents Find Help » Grant Writing Resources Postdoc Mentoring Plan Seminar Website Checklist Powerpoint Templates Request a Photo Campus Strategic Plan Emergency Preparedness Download Docs » Theme Proposal Whitepaper Access "Entry Request" Form Undergrad Access "Entry Request" Form Access "Ship Out" Form Speaking with the Media Get "Request to Travel" Form GET ACQUAINTED // Genomics For (TM), Art of Science, Genome Day, SING, MOOC, Pollen Power, IGB Innovation and Entrepreneurship Art of Science The IGB’s Art of Science program is a celebration of common ground between science and art. View our Art of Science Galleries here. Professional Skills for Careers in Biosciences Program A workshop series intended for graduate students and postdocs to develop and enhance their universal job skills including communication, professionalism, marketing, budgeting, and leadership. Genome Day Genome Day is an opportunity to educate the community about genomes, genes, DNA, and evolution with family friendly activities that reflect IGB research. "Genomics for" Professionals Professionals from the fields of law, medicine, business and education attend specially tailored genomics education programs, such as our Genomics for Judges workshop. Fellowship Opportunities From undergraduate to postdoctoral, there are a variety fellowships opportunities available at the IGB. Visit our page to learn what program is best suited for your professional development goals. GET INVOLVED // Learn about Genomics, Meet the Postdoc Association, Become a Fellow, Start a Theme, Join iGEM, Give to the IGB Learn about Genomics Try some of our most popular activities at home, view our range of video resources to introduce various genomics concepts, take part in our Massive Open Online Course (MOOC) “Genomics: Decoding the Universal Language of Life," and find out when and where our community events will take place such as our popular Art of Science program or our annual Genome Day. Postdoc Association The IGB Postdoctoral Association provides professional guidance and social opportunities for post-doctoral scholars. We hold seminars to inform postdocs of the tools and services available at IGB, organize workshops and resources for career development, and host events to encourage social interaction and professional collaboration between members of the community. Every postdoctoral researcher at IGB is welcome to contribute their ideas and suggestions for events. Become a Fellow The IGB offers a number of fellowships: IGB Fellows typically spend two years, ideally in research which overlaps with two or more thematic areas. The Carl R. Woese Undergraduate Research Scholar Program offers undergraduate students the opportunity to pursue research during the summer. And Loustaunau Graduate Travel Fellowships for Computational Genomics are available for current graduate students conducting IGB-related research in or using computational genomics. See all our Fellowship opportunities here. Join the IGB With faculty from over 30 departments on campus, the IGB is continually looking to involve new members to work in our multidisciplinary, thematic research themes. Read our FAQ on joining the IGB for more information. Interested in starting a new IGB research theme? New themes may be proposed at any time, by any member on campus, through the instructions provided in the IGB Theme Proposal Whitepaper. Give to the IGB Maintaining our commitment to excellence in life-sciences education and research isn't easy. Constant innovation means constant renovation of facilities and technologies. The state helps cover basic costs, but a large number of our research programs are supported solely through private funding. To stay on the cutting edge of science, the IGB needs your help. IGB EVENTS // View all of the IGB's upcoming calendar activities. IGB Symposium - Rubisco Oxygenase: 50 Years of Progress and Looking into the Future The symposium celebrates and highlights the centrality of Bill Ogren’s discovery of Rubisco oxygenase activity launching whole new fields of inquiry and whole new levels of understanding literally encompassing the enzyme to the globe. Join us as we hear from speakers representing leadership in research on environmental dynamics from the microbial to the global that Ogren’s discovery has fundamentally impacted. RSVP here. I Hotel Conference Center 1900 S. First Street, Champaign, Illinois 61820 Thu, 08/18/2022 - 08:00 IGB CONTACTS // IGB Contact, Safety Contact, CNRG Contact, Business Office Contact, Array Café Contact IGB Contact For general inquiries, please get in touch via one of the methods below. Carl R. Woese Institute for Genomic Biology University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign 1206 West Gregory Drive | MC-195 Urbana, IL 61801 phone: 217.244.2999 fax: 217.265.6800 info-igb@illinois.edu Subscribe to our newsletter Safety Contact IGB Safety develops and administers comprehensive safety and compliance programs for the institute. If you have any questions regarding safety at the IGB, please contact: Robert Mann phone: 217.244.8346 bobmann@illinois.edu https://www.igb.illinois.edu/safety CNRG Contact The Computer and Network Resource Group (CNRG) facilitates computer usage at the IGB by providing personal assistance coupled with user instruction. emergency: 217.333.4854 help@igb.illinois.edu http://help.igb.illinois.edu Business Office Contact The IGB Business Office processes serves as the liaison between IGB members and University administration for business-related functional and compliance issues. For questions, please contact: Carla Dickey 217.244.4522 purchasing@igb.illinois.edu http://www.igb.illinois.edu/facilities-services/business-office Array Café Contact Serving coffee, soft drinks, and a variety of food items and to-go snacks. For questions regarding Array Café, e-mail: array@igb.illinois.edu Interested in having Array Cafe cater your event? Fill out our form here. privacy policy sohbet Search the IGB Search Research Anticancer Discovery from Pets to People Biocomplexity Biosystems Design Center for Advanced Bioenergy & Bioproducts Innovation Center for Genomic Diagnostics Environmental Impact on Reproductive Health Genomic Ecology of Global Change Gene Networks in Neural & Developmental Plasticity Genome Scale Engineering Center Genomic Security and Privacy Infection Genomics for One Health Microbiome Metabolic Engineering Mining Microbiol Genomes Multi-Cellular Engineered Living Systems Regenerative Biology & Tissue Engineering Services Check out the resources available for faculty, staff, students and others. Core Facilities Operations & Facilities Business Office Communications group Computer and Network Resource Group Safety Office of Technology Management People Our faculty, staff and students come together to facilitate world-class research. Alphabetical Directory Leadership and External Advisory Members Archaea and Carl Woese Employment Opportunities Calendar Learn about our science firsthand at our seminars, workshops, and other activities. Current Events Upcoming Events News Learn more about our Institute’s latest discoveries and ongoing research. News articles Recent publications Communications group Join our mailing list Get Involved The IGB offers a variety of opportunities to become more involved in genomic research and to develop professionally: Learn about Genomics Become an Innovator and Entrepreneur Meet the Postdoc Association Become a Fellow Volunteer for an activity Start a Theme Give to the IGB Give Gifts to our Institute foster innovative research and support students. Funding Opportunities Many Ways to Give Contribute now Who We Are An interdisciplinary institute dedicated to transformative research and technology in life sciences using team-based strategies to tackle grand societal challenges. Contact IGB Email & Phone Contact information for the IGB University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign Carl R. Woese Institute for Genomic Biology 1206 West Gregory Drive | MC-195 Urbana, IL 61801 phone: 217.244.2999 fax: 217.265.6800 e-mail: info-igb@illinois.edu Directions Get Acquainted Our Institute provides educational opportunities for people of all ages. Art of Science exhibits Massive Open Online Course "Genomics for" Programs Genome Day for local families Pollen Power! Summer Camp Entrepreneurship and Innovation Summer internship for INdigenous peoples in Genomics