Skip to content Clemson University Clemson University Search Menu Close Sorry, your browser does not support inline SVG. Sorry, your browser does not support inline SVG. Apply Giving News Resources for Students Faculty & Staff Parents Alumni Clemson University Academics Forward Arrow Back Arrow Back Academics Home Employment Opportunities Apply for Admission Colleges College of Agriculture, Forestry and Life Sciences College of Architecture, Arts and Humanities College of Behavioral, Social and Health Sciences Wilbur O. and Ann Powers College of Business College of Education College of Engineering, Computing and Applied Sciences College of Science Graduate School Academic Resources Academic Calendar Registrar Division of Undergraduate Studies Center for Career and Professional Development Academic Success Center GRAD 360° Libraries Outside the Classroom PEER/WISE Call Me MISTER® Creative Inquiry and Undergraduate Research Cooperative Education University Professional Internship and Co-op Program (UPIC) Study Abroad Admissions Forward Arrow Back Arrow Back Admissions Home Schedule a Tour Apply for Admission Applying to Clemson First-Year Undergraduate Transfer Undergraduate International Undergraduate Graduate Students Academic Opportunities Majors Graduate Programs Online Graduate Programs Scholar Programs Paths to Graduate School Honors College Experiential Learning Financial Aid Tuition and Fee Calculator Undergraduate Financial Aid Graduate Fellowships and Awards Residency Requirements Campus Life Forward Arrow Back Arrow Back Campus Life Home Club Sports Brooks Center for the Performing Arts Join Your Clemson Family Finding Your Community Living-Learning Communities Student Veterans Multicultural Programs FIRST Army ROTC Air Force ROTC Services On Campus Housing & Dining Campus Recreation Parking and Transportation Student Health Services TigerOne Card Services Clemson Athletics Get Involved Clubs and Organizations Fraternity and Sorority Life Orientation Ambassadors Tiger Media Graduate Student Government Undergraduate Student Government Research Forward Arrow Back Arrow Back Research Home Clemson University Research Foundation (CURF) Division of Research Research Opportunities Student Research at Clemson Creative Inquiry Research Facilities Postdoctoral Affairs Serving South Carolina Through Research School of Health Research Public Service and Agriculture Clemson Experimental Forest Clemson Extension Clemson Research and Education Centers Public Service and Agriculture Research Farm Services Innovation and Economic Development Corporate Partnerships and Strategic Initiatives Clemson University International Center for Automotive Research (CU-ICAR) Clemson University Restoration Institute (CURI) Clemson University Biomedical Engineering Innovation Campus (CUBEInC) Center for Human Genetics Innovation Campus and Technology Park About Clemson Forward Arrow Back Arrow Back About Clemson Home Clemson News Clemson Athletics For Tigers Applying to Clemson Working at Clemson Traditions Military Heritage Things To Do in Clemson Visit Clemson Campus Resources Employment Opportunities Home and Garden Information Center Brand Guidelines CCIT Academic Calendar Training ClemsonForward Campus Leadership Board of Trustees President Academic Affairs and Provost Inclusion and Equity Student Affairs Faculty Senate Staff Senate Search Resources for Current Students Parents Faculty & Staff Alumni Center for Research on Health Disparities CRHD Research Collaboratories Forward Arrow Collaboratories Appalachian American Alliance of Nurse Practitioners Back Arrow Back Resources Apply Giving News Sikes Hall Icon Main Menu Forward Arrow Icon Back Arrow Icon Back Clemson University Academics Academics Home Employment Opportunities Apply for Admission Colleges College of Agriculture, Forestry and Life Sciences College of Architecture, Arts and Humanities College of Behavioral, Social and Health Sciences Wilbur O. and Ann Powers College of Business College of Education College of Engineering, Computing and Applied Sciences College of Science Graduate School Academic Resources Academic Calendar Registrar Division of Undergraduate Studies Center for Career and Professional Development Academic Success Center GRAD 360° Libraries Outside the Classroom PEER/WISE Call Me MISTER® Creative Inquiry and Undergraduate Research Cooperative Education University Professional Internship and Co-op Program (UPIC) Study Abroad Admissions Admissions Home Schedule a Tour Apply for Admission Applying to Clemson First-Year Undergraduate Transfer Undergraduate International Undergraduate Graduate Students Academic Opportunities Majors Graduate Programs Online Graduate Programs Scholar Programs Paths to Graduate School Honors College Experiential Learning Financial Aid Tuition and Fee Calculator Undergraduate Financial Aid Graduate Fellowships and Awards Residency Requirements Campus Life Campus Life Home Club Sports Brooks Center for the Performing Arts Join Your Clemson Family Finding Your Community Living-Learning Communities Student Veterans Multicultural Programs FIRST Army ROTC Air Force ROTC Services On Campus Housing & Dining Campus Recreation Parking and Transportation Student Health Services TigerOne Card Services Clemson Athletics Get Involved Clubs and Organizations Fraternity and Sorority Life Orientation Ambassadors Tiger Media Graduate Student Government Undergraduate Student Government Research Research Home Clemson University Research Foundation (CURF) Division of Research Research Opportunities Student Research at Clemson Creative Inquiry Research Facilities Postdoctoral Affairs Serving South Carolina Through Research School of Health Research Public Service and Agriculture Clemson Experimental Forest Clemson Extension Clemson Research and Education Centers Public Service and Agriculture Research Farm Services Innovation and Economic Development Corporate Partnerships and Strategic Initiatives Clemson University International Center for Automotive Research (CU-ICAR) Clemson University Restoration Institute (CURI) Clemson University Biomedical Engineering Innovation Campus (CUBEInC) Center for Human Genetics Innovation Campus and Technology Park About Clemson About Clemson Home Clemson News Clemson Athletics For Tigers Applying to Clemson Working at Clemson Traditions Military Heritage Things To Do in Clemson Visit Clemson Campus Resources Employment Opportunities Home and Garden Information Center Brand Guidelines CCIT Academic Calendar Training ClemsonForward Campus Leadership Board of Trustees President Academic Affairs and Provost Inclusion and Equity Student Affairs Faculty Senate Staff Senate Search close Center for Research on Health Disparities Advocating for the development, advancement and dissemination of research on population health and health disparities. CRHD Research Collaboratories show submenu for Collaboratories Appalachian American Alliance of Nurse Practitioners Resources Clemson Home Centers and Institutes Current: Center for Research on Health Disparities The Center for Research on Health Disparities provides leadership for the development and advancement of comprehensive, culturally sensitive, community-based participatory research that improves health outcomes and enhances quality of life. The center links faculty, students and community members to advance research on the complex causes of health disparities and strategies to eliminate these disparities. To accomplish its goals, the center draws on the support of and collaboration among individual and institutional partners. The Center for Research on Health Disparities was an outgrowth of an Excellence in Partnerships for Community Outreach, Research on Health Disparities and Training (EXPORT) Center grant funded by the National Center for Minority Health and Health Disparities at the National Institutes of Health. Mission | Vision | Guiding Principles Mission Our mission is to advocate for the development, advancement and dissemination of research on population health and health disparities. Vision Our vision is to be transformational health research leaders improving quality of life and well-being. Guiding Principles Our research goal is improved quality of life, including positive health outcomes and a sense of well-being for people in South Carolina and beyond. We have a particular emphasis on underserved populations. Our research encompasses many model types of research including bench, translational, clinical practice, and others. Our research supports the principles of the Community-Based Participatory Research model. Our research encompasses a lifespan and developmental approach. Our research teams are comprised of people in practice from culturally, ethnically, and racially diverse backgrounds and disciplines. Our research outcomes aim to be translatable back to the community for improved health. Faculty Associates Through research and scholarship activities focused on vulnerable and underserved populations, CRHD Faculty Associates are committed to reducing and eliminating health disparities to improve quality of life and well-being for South Carolina citizens and beyond. These content experts work collaboratively with colleagues across the university and partners in the community. Sub-groups meet as appropriate to discuss current projects, explore research and grant opportunities, and network with internal and external health disparities experts. For more information about the Faculty Associates, please contact Dr. Veronica Parker at veronic@clemson.edu. Nicole Davis Dr. Davis is an Assistant Professor in the School of Nursing. Her research interests include initiatives related to nursing workforce diversity; use of social media and internet-based recruitment to reach informal caregivers of older adults with urinary incontinence; and telehealth self-management of bladder, bowel, and associated skin care problems in home-bound adults. Stephanie Davis Dr. Davis is a Professor in the School of Nursing. Her primary research interests include expanding Nurse Practitioner primary care expertise for underserved and rural populations; exploring transdisciplinary collaboratives to integrate behavioral health into primary care; expanding primary care access in Greenville County through Nurse Practitioner education support; and preparing practice ready Baccalaureate Nurses for primary care. Tracy Fasolino Dr. Fasolino is an Associate Professor in the School of Nursing. Her primary research interests include palliative care initiatives and outcomes for end-stage pulmonary and cardiovascular patients; advancing direct patient care involvement in evidence-based practice and research; and utilizing simulation for training students and practicing medical providers. Karyn Jones Dr. Jones is an Associate Professor in the School of Nursing. Her primary research interests include health behavior and health communication interventions; social determinants of health and health outcomes; and strategies to identify/reduce/eliminate the impact of health disparities. Anne Koci Dr. Koci is a Clinical Professor and Distinguished Scholar in the School of Nursing. Her primary research interests include marginalization, intimate partner violence, health outcomes of abuse, preventive health screening, adverse childhood experiences, caring for women globally, adolescent health and rural health; the simulated hospital environment; and Nurse Practitioner education. Janice Lanham Ms. Lanham is a Senior Lecturer in the School of Nursing. Her primary research interests include digital and social media for pedagogical innovation; mobile and telehealth in classroom and clinical practice settings; mobile health for chronic disease management; augmented/virtual reality/ artificial intelligence; and reduction/elimination of health disparities. Lisa Miller Dr. Miller is a Senior Lecturer in the School of Nursing. Her primary research interests include expanding Nurse Practitioner primary care expertise for underserved and rural populations in SC; promoting health in Latin America; interprofessional service-learning; assessment of anemia levels for infants and children in high altitude Peru; postpartum depression; low income and first-time mothers health outcomes; and prenatal education. Kim Pickett Dr. Pickett is an Assistant Professor in the School of Nursing. Her primary research interests include health promotion in patients with Type 1 and 2 diabetes; tobacco cessation in patients with cancer; psychosocial determinants of health; health promotion in marginalized populations; and hypertension. Zahra Rahemi Dr. Rahemi is an Assistant Professor in the School of Nursing. Her primary research interests include older adults; aging; planning for end of life care; culture and health outcomes in culturally diverse populations; and quality of life. Jennifer Rice Dr. Rice is a Clinical Assistant Professor in the School of Nursing. Her primary research interests include diabetic foot care, in home primary care, and health disparities. Lu Shi Dr. Shi is an Associate Professor in the Department of Public Health Sciences. His primary research interests include simulation modeling; health economics; behavioral economics; complementary and alternative medicine; and population health. Ann Wetsel Dr. Wetsel is a Professor in the School of Nursing. Her primary research interests include expanding Nurse Practitioner primary care expertise for underserved and rural populations; expanding primary care access in Greenville County through Nurse Practitioner education support; preparing practice ready Baccalaureate nurses for primary care; and preparing and expanding the sexual assault nursing education workforce. Janice Withycombe Dr. Withycombe is an Associate Professor in the School of Nursing. Her primary research interests include pediatric oncology; and physical activity and fatigue in adolescent oncology patients. Mary Ellen Wright Dr. Wright is an Assistant Professor in the School of Nursing. Her primary research interests include perinatal substance exposure; substance use in relation to families with infants and children; domestic/interpersonal violence; and child development and prevention strategies for child maltreatment. Core Team Asa Briggs, DNP, PMHNP-BC, MA, BA Rural Mental Health Specialist Asa T. Briggs, PMHNP began his career in psychiatric mental health with a role as a nurse practitioner at Unity Health Care, Inc., the largest Federally Qualified Health Center in the District of Columbia. For the past three years, Asa served as the Discipline Director of Psychiatry at Unity providing leadership in the areas of quality improvement and best practice guidelines. In May 2020, Asa will complete his Doctorate of Nursing Practice from Yale School of Nursing at Yale University. Nicole Davis, PhD, RN, AGPCNP-BC, GNP-BC Aging and Health Disparities Specialist Dr. Davis is an Assistant Professor in the School of Nursing. Her research interests include initiatives related to nursing workforce diversity; use of social media and internet-based recruitment to reach informal caregivers of older adults with urinary incontinence; and telehealth self-management of bladder, bowel, and associated skin care problems in home-bound adults. Lucia Gonzales, PhD, MSN, FNP-C, AGPCNP-BC Assoc. Director of Research 431 Edwards 864-656-2169 luciag@clemson.edu Dr. Gonzales assumes the role of Associate Director of Research at Clemson School of Nursing. Dr. Gonzales has greater than ten years' experience as Director of Education and greater than ten years as chief nursing administrator in acute care health systems. Her career accomplishments include awards of $420,000 grants for care coordination and nurses' computer education. She developed an onsite RN to BSN program in collaboration with UMDNJ/Rowan School of Nursing for 93 nurses. She is an invited international speaker on transition and adult development, palliative and cardiovascular care, and cultural competence. At the baccalaureate level, she taught leadership, professional nursing, contemporary issues, organizational transitions, and logic and critical thinking at Clayton State College and University. At the graduate level, Dr. Gonzales has taught leadership/professional issues and health theory at Emory and Kennesaw State Universities and research at Thomas Jefferson University. Most recently, she was Associate Professor of Nursing, leading geriatrics and health care finance in the Doctor of Nursing Practice program at the University of San Diego. Her publications encourage faculty and clinical nurses to interject research into both the academic and clinical settings. Dr. Gonzales maintains a nursing practice as a transition planner for the midlife woman and nurse practitioner. Karyn Jones, Ph.D. Communications Specialist Dr. Jones' current research interests and activities include health behavior interventions, social determinants of health, and strategies to identify/reduce/eliminate the impact of health disparities. She has ongoing projects in areas related to persuasion, motivation, and interpersonal communication about health; tailored health message design and evaluation; mental health and coping strategies of health care providers; communication across interdisciplinary health care teams; effects of adverse childhood experiences on communication and health across the lifespan; and behavioral interventions in the form of mindfulness training. Anne Koci, PhD, FNP-BC, WHNP, FAAN Marginalization Specialist and Appalachian Region Liaison Dr. Koci, a Women’s Health researcher, with a special interest in marginality issues and health outcomes of women with a history of abuse. She developed and psychometrically tested the Koci Marginality Index which has been translated into Spanish, Tagalog, French-Creole, Japanese, Ukrainian, Russian, and Omani for use in international research. She presents regularly at national and international conferences regarding marginalization and health outcomes of abuse. She integrates trauma informed care into her NP clinical practice. Veronica G. Parker, Ph.D. Director Veronica G. Parker, Ph.D., Director - As the director of the center, Dr. Parker oversees all center activities, conducts research, and works closely with the associate director to secure funds for the center from a variety of sources. She was co-principal investigator on the ACUMEN Project and serves as principle investigator and Administrative Core director for the EXPORT Center. Her research with the center involves asset-mapping and geospatial analysis (GIS mapping) of health-related resources in lower- and upper-state EXPORT counties; GIS mapping of poverty levels and selected diseased states by race/ethnicity in selected EXPORT counties; and testing of a faith-based weight-loss intervention in EXPORT counties. Dr. Parker also holds a faculty position in the School of Nursing at Clemson and has publications in many journals, including RINAH, Journal of Pediatric Nursing, Journal of Family and Community Health, Diabetes Spectrum, and Ethnicity and Disease. Her other research areas have included pediatric and geriatric healthcare practices and pain management in a variety of settings. She has served as principle investigator, co-investigator and project director on grants from the NIH, American Cancer Society and the Department of Health and Human Services. Dr. Parker received a B.S. in physics-engineering from the College of Charleston, a B.S. in engineering analysis focusing on bioengineering from Clemson University and a Ph.D. in biostatistics from the Medical University of South Carolina. Sara Sarasua, Ph.D., MSPH Genomics Specialist Dr. Sarasua’s research interests include: Genetic Epidemiology & Statistical Genetics, etiology of adhesive capsulitis, Phelan-McDermid syndrome (22q13 deletion syndrome), copy number variant associated diseases, lysosomal storage disorders, alpha mannosidosis, mucolipidosis, Rett Syndrome, atypical Rett syndrome, multiomic approaches to migraine etiology, metabolomics, and genomic analysis of speech and language delay, seizures, birth defects, developmental delay. Michelle Taylor Smith, MSN, BSN, RN, FACHE Operations Officer and Community Liaison/External Advisory Board Leader Mrs. Michelle Taylor-Smith is an Ohio native and received her undergraduate degree from the University of Toledo and Masters degree from the Medical College of Ohio. She is a Masters-prepared Nurse Administrator with greater than 30 years Administrative and Executive experience, holds a Certificate in Finance from the National Healthcare Financial Management Association, and is Fellow in the American College of Health Executives. Her Operations experience spans multiple healthcare settings and Health Systems that include acute and outpatient-care, physician-practices, and academics. Michelle’s most recent role was Vice President of Patient Services and System Chief Nursing Officer of Greenville Health System (PRISMA HEALTH). In addition to co-leading the foundation for physician-nurse Inter-professionalism, during her tenure Greenville Health System transitioned to a BSN-preferred organization and she partnered with Dr Valentine and Clemson University for the development of the now Clemson-Greenville College of Nursing. Magnet status designation was obtained at the Greenville and Greer Memorial hospitals, and Pathways to Excellence at Patewood Memorial, which is the designation for smaller specialty organizations; and The Office of Patient Experience was launched. Currently serves as President of the Greenville Free Clinic Board of Trustees and member of the Program Review Committee for the American College of Health Care Executives. (ACHE). Kathleen Valentine, Ph.D. Chief Academic Nursing Officer & Director School of Nursing 510 Edwards Hall (864) 656-9569 klvalen@clemson.edu Dr. Valentine serves as the chief academic nursing officer & director for the Clemson University School of Nursing. Before coming to Clemson, Kathleen Valentine served as dean of nursing at the University of New Brunswick in Fredericton, New Brunswick, Canada; associate dean for clinical affairs and community engagement at the Massachusetts General Hospital Institute for Health Professions; associate dean for outreach at Florida State University’s College of Nursing; and department chair and associate professor at the University of Wisconsin, Eau Claire. She has also led regional and national initiatives to advance professional nursing practice and consulted with national and international health care organizations that range from Mayo Clinic to the Moscow Psychologic Institute. Her research focuses on the economic value of human caring, nurse-managed primary care clinics, and interprofessional collaboration. She holds a Ph.D. in human service program evaluation and a Master of Science in health administration from Cornell University, a Master of Science in psychiatric and mental health nursing from Syracuse University, and a Bachelor of Science in nursing from the State University of New York at Binghamton. Collaborators Charlton Coles, Ph.D. Dr. Coles serves as a consultant for CRHD. He is currently engaged in research to address community issues related to health disparities and environmental justice in minority populations. Recent research projects have included asset mapping to identify the strengths of communities in addressing public health concerns, strategies aimed at improving resiliency for ethnic minorities, and developing a working framework for clinicians and responders to manage community and family stress more effectively from a technological disaster. Dr. Coles has published in journals, such as the Journal of Clinical Psychology, The American Journal of Public Health, and Family & Community Health. He has presented at the International Qualitative Health Research Conference, EPA’s Strengthening Environmental Research and Decision Making symposium, and the Safety Officer’s symposium. He is especially interested in the Center’s capacity to reach ethnic minorities in underserved areas of the state. Dr. Coles received his B.S. in Psychology from Georgia State University and his M.S. and Ph.D. in Clinical Psychology from the University of Florida. Janet H. Evatt, M.T.S. As a collaborator with the center, Ms. Evatt synchronizes CRHD and CUSHR related activities, and assists with student workers. She is particularly interested in the center’s work with faith communities to eliminate health disparities in rural South Carolina. Ms. Evatt is a member of the National Alliance on Mental Illness, and her primary research interest is brain functioning and its impact on perception and behavior. Ms. Evatt received her B.S. in communication sciences and disorders from the University of Texas at Austin and her Master of Theological Studies from Duke University. Kenneth Robinson Dr. Robinson is an Associate Professor in the Department of Sociology, Anthropology and Criminal Justice. His primary research interests include community development and health disparities; local food banks to improve sustainability of small and limited resource farms; and economic development. External Advisory Board The role of the center’s External Advisory Board and its members is to serve as advisors, ambassadors, and advocates, provide recommendation and input to execute the mission and vision of CRHD, and facilitate partnerships to reduce population health disparities. Stoney Abercrombie, MD, FAAFP Director of Medical Education AnMed Health Frank Clark, MD Medical Director & Division Chief for Adult Inpatient & CL Services Department of Psychiatry and Behavioral Medicine Prisma Health Upstate Gary Clary Former SC House Representative Retired Circuit Judge and Certified Mediator and Arbitrator Nancy Kate Durham, FNP Medical Science Liaison, Abbott Diabetes Care John Lowe, RN, PhD, FAAN Professor and Joseph Blade Centennial Memorial Professorship Chair The University of Texas at Austin School of Nursing Virginia Ann Mullikin Executive Director South Carolina Free Clinic Association Elizabeth Steadman, ACNP, MSN, MSS, Colonel, USA (ret) MUSC Vascular Surgery, College of Medicine Instructor, retired Good Neighbor Free Medical Clinic (Beaufort, SC), volunteer Contact Center Research and Projects Veronica G. Parker, Director 404 Edwards Hall 864-656-0984 E-mail: veronic@clemson.edu Partnerships and External Advisory Board Michelle Taylor Smith, Operations Officer 264 CU Nursing building 864-720-2087 Email: msmit33@clemson.edu Other Inquiries Rob Atkinson, Administrative Assistant 110A CU Nursing building 864-720-2080 Email: raatkin@clemson.edu School of Nursing Copyright © Clemson University School of Nursing | 508 Edwards Hall (864) 656-7622 | Email Us | Website Updates intro-arrow Engage With Us Through Facebook Twitter Instagram Clemson University Facebook Instagram Twitter Linkedin Youtube Tiktok Policy/Terms of Use Web Accessibility Ethics/Safety Hotline Privacy Policy Copyright © 2022 Clemson University • Clemson, South Carolina 29634 Clemson University Facebook Instagram Twitter Linkedin Youtube Tiktok Resources A-Z Index Campus Map CU Safety Directory Webcams Apply to Clemson