Skip to main content Harvard Online Main navigation Courses Big Data for Social Good Data Privacy and Technology Data Science Principles Data Science for Business Digital Health Financial Analysis and Valuation for Lawyers Health Care Economics Health Care Strategy Open Innovation View All Courses Series Driving Digital Success Health Care Leadership Law in Practice Leadership, Communication, and Transformation View All Series Explore Share Discover Utility Navigation About FAQ Search Find Courses Welcome to Harvard Online Harvard Online presents curated online courses that combine faculty and disciplines from across the University, connecting learners around the globe with the world’s most urgent issues. Learn More Harvard Without Boundaries Connecting learners with Harvard faculty and leading experts in the field. Providing unparalleled access to cutting-edge research and interdisciplinary approaches to solve the world’s most pressing challenges. Image RAJ CHETTY Big Data for Social Good Image MICHAEL D. SMITH Data Privacy and Technology Image TSEDAL NEELEY Remote Work Revolution for Everyone Image STANLEY Y. SHAW, MD, PHD Digital Health What are you interested in? Health Care Leadership Deepen perspectives and advance insights into the strategic issues facing health care organizations today. Read More > Driving Digital Success Approach new digital and data strategies with an eye toward people, mindsets, and systems. Read More > Leadership, Communication, Transformation What kind of leader will you be? Read More > Law in Practice Keep up on moral, ethical, and legal arguments and continue your education beyond the classroom. Read More > Explore All Series Trending Courses Read More Big Data for Social Good Big social problems require big data solutions Using real-world data and policy interventions as applications, this course will teach core concepts in economics and statistics and equip you to tackle some of the most pressing social challenges of our time. Read More > Read More Open Innovation Solve your organization’s problems by looking outside your organization Open innovation is a strategy that suggests the best ideas, solutions, and people necessary to solve your organization’s difficult problems may come from outside your company entirely. Read More > Read More Health Care Strategy Combine the best business strategies with the fundamentals of the health care sector. Align the principles of business strategy with the unique challenges and structures of health care organizations, create and capture value, define the mission of your organization, and lead your organization to success with confidence. Read More > Explore All Courses Learner Testimonials On Data Privacy and Technology "The course was informative on both current and future data privacy and technological innovation trends—the need for data privacy without inhibiting innovation. The team and instructors prompt critical thinking while broadening the understanding of data privacy beyond the frontiers. At the end of the course, I concluded that there was a need for a mass cultural shift towards ethical use of technology." Joanita Nagaba Co-founder, ANJ Data Management Solutions Africa Ltd. On Health Care Economics “This is an amazing course. The professor did a fantastic job dissecting the complexities of healthcare into chewable chunks." Howard H. Dinh, MD, FACC Medical Director, Cardiac Services, Greater Sacramento The Permanente Medical Group and Chief, Cardiology Kaiser Permanente, South Sacramento On Data Privacy and Technology "I love the way the course is structured with real-world examples and the critical thinking sessions. It forces us to reflect upon what is happening around us. People who have an interest in cybersecurity, as well as those that would like to gain more general knowledge, would greatly benefit from this course." Anand Narayan Account Executive, Lenovo Canada On Data Science Principles "This is a topic that people in any industry should have at least basic knowledge of in order to create more efficient and competitive businesses, tools, and resources." Carlos E. Sapene Chief Executive Officer On Data Science For Business "This course had an amazing instructor, amazing examples, and an amazing user interface that made it easy for me to grasp the material and learn simultaneously with others around the world." Shawn Carrington, Jr. Senior Executive Officer Perspecta, Inc. Image Connect With Us Twitter Linkedin Youtube Facebook Copyright © President & Fellows of Harvard College For Organizations Course Policies and Discounts Privacy Policy Contact Us