Skip to Main Content Brown University Site Navigation Academics Undergraduate Graduate & Professional Schools & Colleges Academic Departments Centers & Institutes Libraries & Collections Global Education Non-Degree Programs Admission & Aid Undergraduate Admission Graduate Admission Medical School Admission Executive & Professional Admission Tuition & Aid Research Find a Researcher Industry Engagement Conducting Research at Brown Life at Brown Athletics & Recreation Community Health & Wellness Housing & Dining Life in Providence Student Organizations University Events News Featured Events For Journalists Search Menu South Street Landing South Street Landing is home to more than 400 Brown employees who work in nearly a dozen administrative units of the University. A-Z Directory South Street Landing South Street Landing is home to more than 400 Brown employees who work in nearly a dozen administrative units of the University. Visiting South Street Landing Back to Top Street Address 350 Eddy Street Providence, RI 02903 Parking and Transportation Visitor parking, for non-Brown staff, is available at the South Street Landing Garage located at 330 Eddy Street. With prior arrangements, visitor parking can be validated at the Brown reception desk located on the 4th floor. Validation costs will be the responsibility of each department. Brown staff visiting from South Street Landing are encouraged to take the Brown University Shuttle. Accessing the Building All Brown visitors should follow the marked signs and use the elevators on the east side of the building to proceed to the lobby on the fourth floor. There, you will be greeted by a receptionist who will contact the Brown staff member with whom you are meeting. About South Street Landing Back to Top Brown University is the anchor tenant in South Street Landing, a $220 million redevelopment project in Providence’s Jewelry District bringing new life to an iconic but long-abandoned station that once provided electrical power to the city. Brown's role in sparking the robust public-private partnership that resulted in South Street Landing reflects the University's goal to catalyze economic growth in the Jewelry District, Providence and Rhode Island. In addition to Brown University offices, it also houses the Rhode Island Nursing Education Center (where Rhode Island College and University of Rhode Island share facilities) and a 744-space parking garage. https://www.youtube.com/embed/G2kDb24CFog As stated in Brown's Building on Distinction strategic plan, the University’s vision for Brown in the Jewelry District is to be a partner in the development of a vibrant ecosystem of academics, commerce and innovation. Brown has invested more than $200 million in the Jewelry District, including the state-of-the-art Warren Alpert Medical School education building, the School of Professional Studies, the Laboratories for Molecular Medicine, and more. South Street Landing is also central to the University’s efforts to make space available on College Hill for academic departments and centers, and to offer new spaces to promote interdisciplinary collaboration, entrepreneurship and student activities. News about South Street Landing News and Events South Street Landing wins top National Preservation Award October 11, 2019 After sitting abandoned for more than two decades, the building’s redevelopment spurred revitalization efforts throughout Providence’s Jewelry District. Read Article Open details for South Street Landing wins top National Preservation Award News and Events State, higher education leaders celebrate South Street Landing’s launch November 29, 2017 In a Nov. 29 ribbon-cutting ceremony, Rhode Island Gov. Gina Raimondo, Brown President Christina Paxson and other speakers extolled the project as both a symbol of and catalyst for economic development. Read Article Open details for State, higher education leaders celebrate South Street Landing’s launch News and Events An academic and economic powerhouse — Brown moves into South Street Landing October 19, 2017 After years of private-public partnership to transform the long-vacant former South Street Power Station into a mixed-used development, Brown’s relocation of 400 staff members brings new vibrancy to its Jewelry District campus. Read Article Open details for An academic and economic powerhouse — Brown moves into South Street Landing For Brown Employees Back to Top Find information on facilities, parking, travel, meeting rooms, services and more. Brown username and password required. GUIDE TO WORKING AT SOUTH STREET LANDING Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown Social Navigation Facebook Instagram LinkedIn Snapchat Twitter YouTube Social Media Directory © Brown University Brown University For You Current Students Faculty Staff Parents & Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Academics Undergraduate Graduate & Professional Schools & Colleges Academic Departments Centers & Institutes Libraries & Collections Global Education Non-Degree Programs Admission & Aid Undergraduate Admission Graduate Admission Medical School Admission Executive & Professional Admission Tuition & Aid Research Find a Researcher Industry Engagement Conducting Research at Brown Life at Brown Athletics & Recreation Community Health & Wellness Housing & Dining Life in Providence Student Organizations University Events News Featured Events For Journalists Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation About Events For You Give to Brown All of Brown.edu People News Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search South Street Landing Open details for South Street Landing Bookmark this Page