Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. University Honors Program UHP right arrow down arrow About UHP right arrow down arrow Inclusive Excellence Competencies right arrow down arrow Community Engagement Creativity Global Studies Leadership Research News Directions Contact Us right arrow down arrow Raj Mehta Debbie Brawn Marcell Crawford Bria Howard Bene Khoury Neil Choudhury Ashley Webber Kyle Key Jason Autry Tricia Yee Claire Minton Yale Miller Shawna Obregon Danny Hagedorn Vikki Kowalczyk Current UHP Students right arrow down arrow UHP Student Database UHP Framework & Benefits Requirements Honors Experiences right arrow down arrow Honors Seminars right arrow down arrow Fall 2022 Honors Seminars Spring 2023 Honors Seminars Summer 2022 Honors Seminars Pre-Approved Experiences Self-Designed Experiences Study Abroad and Study Tours International Travel Biomedical Research and Mentoring Program right arrow down arrow RaMP Publications RaMP Project Descriptions How to Apply Matching and Participation Frequently Asked Questions Tips and Testimonials UHP Discover right arrow down arrow Students: Learn More Faculty: Get Involved 2022 UHP Discover Projects Past Honors Seminars right arrow down arrow Summer 2021 Seminars Fall 2021 Honors Seminars Spring 2022 Honors Seminars Summer 2022 Honors Seminars Welcome Experience Leaders UHP Ambassador Leadership Team Grants for Honors Experiences Learning Portfolios right arrow down arrow Reflection Structure and Content Showcase Guide Protected Information Featured Portfolios Year-in-Review Get Involved right arrow down arrow UHP Ambassadors right arrow down arrow Meet the Team Ambassador Application Honor Societies First Year in UHP right arrow down arrow Welcome Experience right arrow down arrow Welcome Experience Registration HNRS 1010: Gateway to the UHP Advising right arrow down arrow Scheduling Advising Meetings via My Bearcat Network Presidential Leadership Medal of Excellence Prospective Students right arrow down arrow High School Students Current UC Students right arrow down arrow Join our Outreach List and Teams University Honors Application Transfer Students University Honors Housing Faculty and Campus Partners right arrow down arrow Honors Seminar Call for Proposals right arrow down arrow Guidelines, Pedagogy and Structure Study Tour Guidelines Submission Process Required Documents Proposal Form Review and Notification Funding Resources Seminar Development Workshops Creating and Ordering Honors Seminars Home » Campus Life » University Honors Program » Prospective Students » University Honors Housing Set Navigation title in component High School Students Current UC Students Join our Outreach List and Teams University Honors Application Transfer Students University Honors Housing University Honors Housing There are a variety of excellent on-campus housing options at UC! Many UHP students choose to live in honors housing. For Fall 2022 honors housing is available in the following locations: Marian Spencer Hall (Floor 9) offers suite style living Scioto Hall (Floors 11-12) offers apartment style living Turner Hall (Floors 2-5) offers suite style living These options provide a variety of accommodation and cost options to our students. Access the Housing website to learn about all of UC's on-campus options and see virtual tours of each building. University Honors Program students are not required to live on a University Honors themed floor, but many of our students choose this option to be close to fellow students in the honors community. There are a number of otheroptions for you to consider as UC offers a wide variety of apartment, suite, and traditional style residence halls. University Housing offers numerous Living-Learning Communities and themed floors. Please see the community living section of the housing website to learn more about all your options. Questions about housing? University Housing manages the entire housing process from application to move-in. For specific questions, you can contact them by email or phone at 513-556-6461. First-Year Students Housing Process Starting March 1, you can access the housing application only after confirming your admission and paying the matriculation fee. It can take up to 48 hours between the time the matriculation fee is paid and when you will have access to the housing application. From March through May 1, you can log-in to complete your application, create roommate groups, and apply to be part of one of the numerous Living-Learning Communities (if interested). You will not be able to choose to live on the UHP themed floors at this point in your application; you will do this during room selection. If you are planning to live in a University Honors themed floor, all students in the roommate group must also be in University Honors. In mid-May, University Housing will email you through your UC email account with your time slot for the room selection process. As a University Honors student, you will receive directions for the room selection process and a priority selection date at the beginning of the process. This doesn't mean that all spaces will be available to you, because returning students and other student groups will have reserved locations, so plan ahead with multiple options for your roommate group. Additionally, the University Honors themed floors won't be available to you unless all roommates are also University Honors students. Campus housing is in high demand. We suggest completing the application and paying the application fee as soon as possible if you know you'd like to live in on-campus housing. If you submit a housing application after the May 1 deadline, you may not be guaranteed housing. We cannot guarantee that all incoming UHP students who want to live on a University Honors themed floor will be able to select one. Looking for Roommates? Within the housing application, student have the ability to search for roommates as part of the process. You may create a profile and search for other students who have done the same. You can also answer several generic questions about lifestyles within the roommate matching module, and you can also write an open narrative describing yourself and ideal characteristics you are looking for in roommates. You can do this to identify other UHP students, coordinate with ideal sleeping schedules, cleanliness expectations, and more. Beyond the application, it is common for students to use Facebook groups and other social media platforms to match with potential roommates. However, neither University Housing nor University Honors is actively involved on these platforms. Returning Students and Honors Housing Returning University Honors students will be able to select residential spaces in honors communities or any available general residential space through the Returner Housing Application process, which starts in mid-January. Some spaces still fill quickly, so you should become very cognizant of the timelines to select your space. This process usually closes by late February. All students self-select their space based on Housing & Food Services timeline for contract renewal. See Housing & Food Services for the timeline for housing applications and self-assignment. Here are more details of the housing application schedule. Qualifications Students must be members of the University Honors Program to live in honors housing when the housing selection is made. Students who do not meet the qualifications to live in honors housing may be removed from their honors housing placement. If this occurs, these students may be placed in another general campus housing option. University Honors Program 700 Swift Hall PO Box 210007 Cincinnati, OH 45221-0007 honors@uc.edu UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati University Honors Program 700 Swift Hall PO Box 210007 Cincinnati, OH 45221-0007 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top