COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW Pregnancy Policies Section Menu OIEC Home Contact OIEC Pregnancy Policies and Discrimination WSU Discrimination Policies OIEC Training Title IX Empowerment Summit Affirmative Action CARE Team Submit a Report CSA Training Packet Title IX Policy Review Title IX Policy Statement Resources and Additional Reporting Options Rights of the Parties in Sexual Harassment Cases If You Have Experienced Sexual Assault 2021 Title IX Review and Survey Archived Policies Frequently Asked Questions: Sexual Assault Prevention Training for Students OIEC Annual Reports Policy 8.21 / Accommodations for Pregnant and Parenting Students Wichita State University does not discriminate in its employment practices, educational programs or activities on the basis of pregnancy, pregnancy-related conditions, or new parenthood. Any student who believes they have a need for a pregnancy-related accommodation and/or service should contact the Office of Disability Services. Tenure Probationary Period Extension Wichita State University fosters a culture that welcomes, encourages, supports and sustains a diverse faculty as they achieve excellence in scholarship, teaching, service and public engagements. Our tenure policy provides for flexibility in meeting goals and expectations for performance based upon the different stages of faculty development over the course of an academic career. The policy recognizes the importance of balancing academic and family responsibilities by allowing for the extension of the probationary period related to parenting and health-related commitments. Section 4.19 Tenure Policy: If an untenured faculty member becomes a parent through birth, adoptive placement, or adoption of a child under the age of 5 prior to May 1st of the fifth year of the probationary period, that faculty member, upon notification to Provost, shall be granted a one-year delay of the tenure review. Notification must occur within 90 days of the birth, adoptive placement or adoption. Faculty members retain the right to opt out of this interruption policy. Additional information can be found at the American Association of University Professors (AAUP) website. Lactation rooms on campus 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©