Skip to main content Skip to main navigation Baylor Alumni Menu Alumni Connect Give Light Publications & Media Baylor Magazine Baylor Proud Media and Public Relations Social Media Make a Gift Baylor Alumni Baylor Alumni is the University's official alumni engagement program. It celebrates the memories, experiences and connections of Baylor alumni, offering ways to engage and give back, led by dedicated volunteers and a committed team of professionals. Explore Alumni Connect The online home for Baylor alumni, from recent graduates to longtime alums and their families. Explore programs and services for alumni across the nation and around the world. Read More Baylor Magazine A quarterly print and digital publication for Baylor alumni and friends of the University that features stories about the people, programs and accomplishments of Baylor University. Read More Give Light Give Light is a $1.1 billion comprehensive campaign for the future of Baylor University. The campaign undergirds Illuminate, the University's Strategic Plan, and will impact every aspect of campus life. Read More Honoring the Fallen Lampposts across campus recognize Bears whose who gave all in service to our nation. Learn More Registration Now Open Discover the incredible opportunities and experiences that await you as a Baylor Bear at Orientation and Line Camp. Learn More Christ-Centered Diversity Dean Mazumder and Associate Dean for Diversity and Inclusion, Cindy Wu, explain Christ-centered diversity through scriptures. Learn More Baylor Magazine Spring 2022 Stay current on alumni news with the latest issue of Baylor Magazine. Learn More News Read More News May 13, 2022 Study business or ministry? This 2022 Baylor MDiv/MBA grad answered, ‘Both.’ Before Connor Griffin (BBA ’18, MBA/MDiv ’22) could drive a car, he had already started a business. He and his brother would push a lawnmower around their neighborhood, earning money by caring for nearby yards. As the son of small business owner, he had entrepreneurship in his blood — but he also felt a call … Read More May 12, 2022 Even cancer couldn’t stop this #BaylorGrad from earning her degree Being 20 years old, away from home at college, and faced with the challenges of a pandemic is hard enough. Now imagine learning that you have cancer and must undergo chemo in the middle of it all. That’s the situation Baylor senior Ellie Kronlokken faced 18 months ago — and yet, this weekend, the Minnesota … Read More May 12, 2022 Baylor Religion Professor Receives Fulbright U.S. Scholar Award to South Korea WACO, Texas (May 12, 2022) – Baylor University Honors College faculty member Candi K. Cann, Ph.D., associate professor of religion in the Baylor Interdisciplinary Core (BIC), has received a Fulbright U.S. Scholar Award to South Korea, a prestigious and competitive fellowship of the Department of State’s Bureau of Educational and Cultural Affairs. Read More May 12, 2022 Baylor to Celebrate More Than 3,000 Graduates at Spring Commencement WACO, Texas (May 12, 2022) – Last spring in the midst of COVID, Baylor University celebrated the Classes of 2020 and 2021 with socially distanced outdoor ceremonies at McLane Stadium. In 2022, Baylor’s spring commencement returns to the Ferrell Center May 13-14. Read More Alumni-Elected Regents Awards Board of Advocates Class Notes Groups Transcripts Events See More Events May 31 2022 Men's Golf at NCAA Championship Jun 1 2022 Men's Golf at NCAA Championship Jun 2 2022 Softball at Women's College World Series Jun 3 2022 Baseball at NCAA Regionals Baylor Alumni Clifton Robinson Tower 700 S. University Parks Drive Waco, TX 76798 (254) 710-8300 BaylorAlumni@baylor.edu Alumni Connect Baylor Magazine BaylorProud Give Light General Information Colleges, Schools, Libraries & Research Admissions Administration Gateways For... About Baylor Anonymous Reporting Athletics Ask Baylor Bookstore Calendar Campus Map Directory Give Light Give to Baylor Illuminate Mental Health Resources News Pro Futuris Report It Search Social Media Title IX Baylor Libraries College of Arts & Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work George W. Truett Theological Seminary Graduate School Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Louise Herrington School of Nursing Research at Baylor University Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Engineering & Computer Science School of Music More Academics Undergraduate Admissions goBAYLOR Graduate Admissions Baylor Law School Admissions Social Work Graduate Programs George W. Truett Theological Seminary Admissions Online Graduate Professional Education Virtual Tour Visit Campus Annual Fire Safety and Security Notice Athletics Human Resources Marketing and Communications Office of General Counsel Office of the President Office of the Provost Operations, Finance & Administration Senior Administration Student Life University Advancement Baylor Alumni Faculty & Staff Online Graduate Professional Education Parents Prospective Faculty & Staff Prospective Students Students Copyright © Baylor® University. All rights reserved. Legal Disclosures. Baylor University • Waco, Texas 76798 • 1-800-229-5678 Alumni Connect Give Light Publications & Media Baylor Magazine Baylor Proud Media and Public Relations Social Media Make a Gift