Georgetown University Open Search Form Who We Are The Whole Person Our Catholic & Jesuit Heritage Our History Student Stories Faculty Stories Alumni Stories Campus & City Living in DC Opportunities Getting Around Service & Action Campus Life Housing On-Campus Dining Clubs & Organizations Arts & Culture Community & Diversity Student Life Blog Wellness & Safety Sports & Fitness Health Center Safety & Emergency Preparedness Athletics External Link Academic Life Restless Inquiry Our Schools Areas of Study Study Abroad Research Centers and Programs Global Initiatives External Link Library System Admissions & Aid Undergraduate Admissions External Link Graduate Admissions Financial Aid External Link Commitment to Access News Events Giving Alumni Info For Students Faculty Staff/AAP Alumni Parents Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Content Skip to Footer News Events Giving Alumni Info For Students Faculty Staff/AAP Alumni Parents Georgetown University Who We Are The Whole Person Our Catholic & Jesuit Heritage Our History Student Stories Faculty Stories Alumni Stories Campus & City Living in DC Opportunities Getting Around Service & Action Campus Life Housing On-Campus Dining Clubs & Organizations Arts & Culture Community & Diversity Student Life Blog Wellness & Safety Sports & Fitness Health Center Safety & Emergency Preparedness Athletics External Link Academic Life Restless Inquiry Our Schools Areas of Study Study Abroad Research Centers and Programs Global Initiatives External Link Library System Admissions & Aid Undergraduate Admissions External Link Graduate Admissions Financial Aid External Link Commitment to Access Open Search Form Georgetown University Home Who We Are The Whole Person The Whole Person You’re more than a mind. You’re an individual with unique talents, dreams, and passions. Our long-held Jesuit tradition of cura personalis means a profound care and responsibility for one another, attentive to each person’s circumstances and concerns and gifts. 1 of 1 Previous Slide Next Slide ESCAPE & Reset Join a first-year or transfer ESCAPE to retreat from the Hilltop. Located in the Shenandoah Valley, you’ll get the chance to meet new people, enjoy live music, reflect on your experience and take a step back from the frenzy of campus life. Find your ESCAPE 350+ Student clubs and organizations representing a variety of student interests 28 Faculty and chaplains in-residence to support you in and out of the classroom “If I hadn’t come to Georgetown, I probably never would have taken a theology class … here I am, probably going to declare a minor in theology any day now!” Christina’s Story “While the competitive environment pressures you into being your best … the school always reminds you that life is more than that.” Joong Won’s Story “We are beholden to our commitments to caring for the whole person and developing people for others. I believe these should be at the core of how we approach our pedagogy, work with students and function as an institution.” AVP Adanna Johnson’s Story Previous Story Next Story Play Youtube Video Live and Learn Extend your classroom discussions with like-minded friends and deepen your social, intellectual or spiritual growth by joining one of our campus Living Learning Communities. Explore justice and diversity, Spanish immersion, entrepreneurship and more. Our Living Learning Communities 1 of 1 Previous Slide Next Slide Common Experiences As a part of Georgetown’s theology core requirement, tens of thousands of students have taken the iconic Problem of God course, where students of different faith backgrounds explore the possibilities of and challenges to religious belief in a contemporary context. “Part of a liberal arts education is to get into the basement and address fundamental human questions, and there’s no more direct way to do that than taking up the question of God and the possibility of religious experience.” -Rev. Otto Hentz, S.J. The Problem of God Contact Us Directory Visit Maps About Academic Calendar Careers Media Resources FacebookFacebook TwitterTwitter InstagramInstagram LinkedInLinkedIn YouTubeYouTube Georgetown University 37th and O Streets, N.W. Washington, D.C. 20057 P. 202-687-0100 Georgetown University Privacy Policy Copyright Web Accessibility Notice of Non-Discrimination © 2022 Georgetown University Search Georgetown Search Close the Search Dialog