Skip to main content Skip to main navigation Give Light Menu Give Light About the Campaign Foundation of the Campaign National Campaign Steering Committee Campaign Timeline Campaign Events Nashville - April 28, 2022 Atlanta - February 3, 2022 Denver - October 22, 2021 Give Light Denver Video Tidwell Ribbon Cutting Medal of Honor Statue Installation Ceremony Mark & Paula Hurd Welcome Center Groundbreaking Video Mark & Paula Hurd Welcome Center Groundbreaking Southern California - October 26, 2019 Dallas - September 14, 2019 Dr. Annette von Jouanne Video New York City - May 23, 2019 Benjamin Goff Video Jeff Theiss Video Houston - May 4, 2019 Dr. Dwayne Simmons Video Dr. Ann Mirabito Video Washington, DC - February 2, 2019 Dr. Lorin Matthews Video Dr. Byron Johnson Video Campaign Priorities Endowed Funds Faculty Chairs and Professorships Endowed Scholarships Endowed Funds for Growth Priorities Endowment Impact Capital Projects Mark & Paula Hurd Welcome Center Paul and Alejandra Foster Pavilion Fudge Football Development Center President's Excellence Fund Support Baylor Students Today Why I Give: Donor Testimonials Initiatives Health Data Sciences Materials Science Human Flourishing, Leadership and Ethics Baylor in Latin America Academic Units Arts & Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work Engineering & Computer Science George W. Truett Theological Seminary Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Louise Herrington School of Nursing Mayborn Museum Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Music University Libraries Foster Academic Challenge Hord Scholarship Challenge Trailblazer Scholars Program Contact Make a Gift News Illuminate Ways to Give Baylor>Give Light>About the Campaign>Campaign Events>Medal of Honor Statue Installation Ceremony Medal of Honor Statue Installation Ceremony Baylor University proudly boasts a pair of American heroes. John R. Kane (BA '28) and Jack Lummus ('41) are believed to be the only duo of collegiate letterwinners at any university in the nation to be awarded the Medal of Honor, the United States' highest award for military valor in action. Creating a lasting legacy on Baylor's campus, Haag (BBA '88) and Millette Sherman of Houston provided funding and leadership for the design and sculpting of statues honoring these men. Event Video Bronze statues bearing John Kane and Jack Lummus's likenesses were unveiled during a November 2020 ceremony on the grounds of McLane Stadium. Photo Gallery The statues serve as a reminder of the lives Lummus and Kane lived at Baylor University, and as a tribute to the heroism they were compelled to display during World War II. About our Honorees The men received honors for heroism during World War II – one as a pilot in the European Theatre, and the other for his ultimate sacrifice in the Pacific Theatre. Press Release The statues, which showcase Lummus and Kane in their military uniforms, are the work of Baylor alumnus Dan Brook, a Native American artist based in Dallas, Texas. About the Campaign Foundation of the Campaign National Campaign Steering Committee Campaign Timeline Campaign Events Nashville - April 28, 2022 Atlanta - February 3, 2022 Photo Gallery Event Video Press Release Get Involved Denver - October 22, 2021 Give Light Denver Video Tidwell Ribbon Cutting Medal of Honor Statue Installation Ceremony Event Video Photo Gallery About our Honorees Press Release Mark & Paula Hurd Welcome Center Groundbreaking Video Mark & Paula Hurd Welcome Center Groundbreaking Southern California - October 26, 2019 Dallas - September 14, 2019 Dr. Annette von Jouanne Video New York City - May 23, 2019 Benjamin Goff Video Jeff Theiss Video Houston - May 4, 2019 Dr. Dwayne Simmons Video Dr. Ann Mirabito Video Washington, DC - February 2, 2019 Dr. Lorin Matthews Video Dr. Byron Johnson Video Each of us has been entrusted with a great light that can illuminate the path for future generations. When the Baylor Family gives financially to support University priorities, we give light to Baylor's bright future. Make a Gift Today Please select...Baylor Fund Make a Gift Contact Us (254) 710-2561GiveLight@baylor.edu General Information Colleges, Schools, Libraries & Research Admissions Administration Gateways For... About Baylor Anonymous Reporting Athletics Ask Baylor Bookstore Calendar Campus Map Directory Give Light Give to Baylor Illuminate Mental Health Resources News Pro Futuris Report It Search Social Media Title IX Baylor Libraries College of Arts & Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work George W. Truett Theological Seminary Graduate School Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Louise Herrington School of Nursing Research at Baylor University Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Engineering & Computer Science School of Music More Academics Undergraduate Admissions goBAYLOR Graduate Admissions Baylor Law School Admissions Social Work Graduate Programs George W. Truett Theological Seminary Admissions Online Graduate Professional Education Virtual Tour Visit Campus Annual Fire Safety and Security Notice Athletics Human Resources Marketing and Communications Office of General Counsel Office of the President Office of the Provost Operations, Finance & Administration Senior Administration Student Life University Advancement Baylor Alumni Faculty & Staff Online Graduate Professional Education Parents Prospective Faculty & Staff Prospective Students Students Copyright © Baylor® University. All rights reserved. Legal Disclosures. Baylor University • Waco, Texas 76798 • 1-800-229-5678 About the Campaign Foundation of the Campaign National Campaign Steering Committee Campaign Timeline Campaign Events Nashville - April 28, 2022 Atlanta - February 3, 2022 Denver - October 22, 2021 Give Light Denver Video Tidwell Ribbon Cutting Medal of Honor Statue Installation Ceremony Mark & Paula Hurd Welcome Center Groundbreaking Video Mark & Paula Hurd Welcome Center Groundbreaking Southern California - October 26, 2019 Dallas - September 14, 2019 Dr. Annette von Jouanne Video New York City - May 23, 2019 Benjamin Goff Video Jeff Theiss Video Houston - May 4, 2019 Dr. Dwayne Simmons Video Dr. Ann Mirabito Video Washington, DC - February 2, 2019 Dr. Lorin Matthews Video Dr. Byron Johnson Video Campaign Priorities Endowed Funds Faculty Chairs and Professorships Endowed Scholarships Endowed Funds for Growth Priorities Endowment Impact Capital Projects Mark & Paula Hurd Welcome Center Paul and Alejandra Foster Pavilion Fudge Football Development Center President's Excellence Fund Support Baylor Students Today Why I Give: Donor Testimonials Initiatives Health Data Sciences Materials Science Human Flourishing, Leadership and Ethics Baylor in Latin America Academic Units Arts & Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work Engineering & Computer Science George W. Truett Theological Seminary Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Louise Herrington School of Nursing Mayborn Museum Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Music University Libraries Foster Academic Challenge Hord Scholarship Challenge Trailblazer Scholars Program Contact Make a Gift News Illuminate Ways to Give