Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Coronavirus Updates Guidelines Masks on Campus Info For... Vaccine Testing Case Report Communications FAQs Resources HEERF Reporting Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact Take Action Review Guidelines Daily Self-Checker Testing Center View Cases on Campus Report CARES Act Home Coronavirus Updates Testing Testing on Campus COVID-19 Testing Center Open To: UofM Faculty, Staff and Students PCR Testing: Available for pick-up at the Student Health Center starting May 9, 2022 - See instructions below The location - Central to the Arts Hub (formerly the Visitors Information Center at the corner of Central and Patterson) - will be closed during the summer months. Rapid Antigen Testing: Scheduling required Location: Student Health Center Appointments: Please schedule an appointment thru the MyPatient Portal to consult with a health care provider to schedule a rapid antigen. Walk-ups are not available due to health center having other scheduled appointments during business hours. If you have questions, please contact the Health Center at studenthealth@memphis.edu or 901.678.2287. PCR Testing Process The COVID-19 Testing Center, managed by the Campus Health Services under the direction of Dr. Linh Luu, will have walk-up service at the window with a University ID required. Each patient must be 18 years and older and is required to have an individual email, address and phone number in order to register for the test. Everlywell test kits and processing are provided at no charge by the State of Tennessee and funded by Federal COVID-19 relief funding. Each patient will need to set up an Everlywell Patient Portal Account to receive results. www.everlywell.com/register Click “Create an Account” Enter name, email, create password, read and accept the Terms and Conditions and click “Create My Account” Patients will perform their own swab test from the kit provided. Each kit includes step-by-step instructions for proper collection and return of sample. Patients must put the swab into proper packaging, secure the shipping label and drop the completed test at the UPS store. UPS will give you a shipping receipt. The test kit must be taken to UPS on the day the sample is collected. Patients may choose to follow the progress of their test through the receipt of text messages from Everlywell. Currently, test results are taking two to three days from receipt at the lab. Should a test result be positive for COVID-19, a patient will be contacted by an Everlywell medical provider who will discuss the results as well as by a representative of the Shelby County Health Department. Patients with a positive result will be instructed to self-isolate for a period of 10 days from the onset of their symptoms. UofM Student Notification Requirements If a UofM student tests positive for COVID-19 or comes in close contact with a positive individual, the student must contact the Dean of Students Office at deanofstudents@memphis.edu. Staff will guide the student through University protocols and provide any available resources. If students have questions regarding this protocol, they can email at deanofstudents@memphis.edu or call 678.2187 Students may contact Student Health Services at studenthealth@memphis.edu or 901.443.1397 or 901.443.6438 with questions or concerns about coronavirus symptoms. UofM Employee Notification Requirements Whether tested on campus or elsewhere, an employee is required to share the results (either positive or negative) with Human Resources. If you are an employee of the University of Memphis and have either tested positive for or been directly exposed to COVID-19, you need to report this to Human Resources at hr_contact_tracing@memphis.edu. These e-mail communications should NOT contain any personal medical documentation or sensitive materials. To get personal medical documentation or other sensitive materials to HR, please use our secure file upload utility at https://securefile.memphis.edu/form/hr. Please note: this e-mail address and upload utility are for EMPLOYEES only. If an employee tests positive for COVID-19, the employee should contact Human Resources at hr_contact_tracing@memphis.edu and they will be provided with information on protocols and any available resources. Human Resources will contact employees with next steps to include isolation/quarantine requirements. Employees may contact Human Resources at hr_contact_tracing@memphis.edu or 901.678.3573 with questions or concerns. It is not possible for Human Resources to receive patient test results from Everlywell. Should follow-up medical care be required, the patient should seek it through a primary care physician. Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 5/4/22 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.