Texas Tech University Directory Raiderlink A-Z Index eLearning & Academic Partnerships Menu Search TTU eLearning & Academic Partnerships Online and Distance Programs Master's Degrees Bachelor's Programs Doctoral Programs Certificate Programs Questions? Online and Distance Master's Degrees Enrollment Information (844) 348-3648 elearning.ttu.edu/programs Master of Agribusiness Gordon W. Davis College of Agricultural Sciences & Natural Resources Online View Master of Art Education J.T. & Margaret Talkington College of Visual & Performing Arts Online | Regional Sites: Fredericksburg View Master of Arts in Communication Studies College of Media & Communication Online View Master of Arts in Dance Studies J.T. & Margaret Talkington College of Visual & Performing Arts Online View Master of Arts in English College of Arts & Sciences Online View Master of Arts in Interdisciplinary Studies Graduate School Online View Master of Arts in Mass Communication College of Media & Communication Online View Master of Arts in Strategic Communication and Innovation College of Media & Communication Online | Regional Sites: Austin College View Master of Arts in Technical Communication College of Arts & Sciences Online | Regional Sites: Austin College View Master of Business Administration Jerry S. Rawls College of Business Administration Online | Regional Sites: Highland Lakes, Rockwall View Master of Education in Bilingual Education and English as a Second Language College of Education Online View Master of Education in Curriculum and Instruction College of Education Online View Master of Education in Educational Leadership College of Education Online View Master of Education in Educational Psychology College of Education Hybrid/Blended View Master of Education in Higher Education Administration College of Education Online View Master of Education in Instructional Technology College of Education Online View Master of Education in Language and Literacy Education College of Education Online View Master of Education in Special Education College of Education Online View Master of Engineering Edward E. Whitacre Jr. College of Engineering Online View Master of Engineering (Healthcare Engineering) Edward E. Whitacre Jr. College of Engineering Online View Master of Music Education in Music Education J.T. & Margaret Talkington College of Visual & Performing Arts Online View Master of Public Administration College of Arts & Sciences Online | Regional Sites: Austin College, Collin, Waco View Master of Science in Agricultural Communications Gordon W. Davis College of Agricultural Sciences & Natural Resources Online View Master of Science in Agricultural Education Gordon W. Davis College of Agricultural Sciences & Natural Resources Online View Master of Science in Chemical Engineering Edward E. Whitacre Jr. College of Engineering Online View Master of Science in Civil Engineering Edward E. Whitacre Jr. College of Engineering Online View Master of Science in Computer Science Edward E. Whitacre Jr. College of Engineering Online View Master of Science in Data Science Jerry S. Rawls College of Business Administration Online View Master of Science in Family and Consumer Sciences Education College of Human Sciences Online View Master of Science in Horticulture Science Gordon W. Davis College of Agricultural Sciences & Natural Resources Online View Master of Science in Human Development and Family Sciences (Gerontology Emphasis) College of Human Sciences Online View Master of Science in Human Development and Family Sciences (Youth Development Emphasis) College of Human Sciences Online View Master of Science in Industrial Engineering Edward E. Whitacre Jr. College of Engineering Online View Master of Science in Interdisciplinary Studies Graduate School Online View Master of Science in Manufacturing Engineering Edward E. Whitacre Jr. College of Engineering Online View Master of Science in Marketing Research and Analytics Jerry S. Rawls College of Business Administration Online View Master of Science in Mechanical Engineering Edward E. Whitacre Jr. College of Engineering Online View Master of Science in Nutrition and Dietetics College of Human Sciences Online View Master of Science in Petroleum Engineering Edward E. Whitacre Jr. College of Engineering Online View Master of Science in Plant and Soil Science Gordon W. Davis College of Agricultural Sciences & Natural Resources Online View Master of Science in Software Engineering Edward E. Whitacre Jr. College of Engineering Online View Master of Science in Systems and Engineering Management Edward E. Whitacre Jr. College of Engineering Online View Professional Science Master's in Environmental Sustainability and Natural Resource Management Graduate School Online | Regional Sites: Waco View close × Contact UsAre you a prospective TTU eLearning student? Please enter the information below and a representative from eLearning will contact you shortly. eLearning & Academic Partnerships Like eLearning & Academic Partnerships on FacebookLike eLearning & Academic Partnerships on Facebook Follow eLearning & Academic Partnerships on InstagramFollow eLearning & Academic Partnerships on Instagram Address Texas Tech Plaza | 1901 University Avenue, Suite 513 | Lubbock, Texas 79410-5095 || Mailing: Box 45095 | Lubbock, TX 79409-5095 Phone Office (806) 742-7227 || Student Support (806) 853-5153 or toll-free (844) 897-0537 Email elearning@ttu.edu Texas Tech University 2500 Broadway Lubbock, Texas 79409 806.742.2011 Follow Texas Tech University Like Texas Tech University on FacebookLike Texas Tech University on Facebook Follow Texas Tech University on twitterFollow Texas Tech University on twitter Check in with Texas Tech University on FourSquareCheck in with Texas Tech University on FourSquare Subscribe to Texas Tech University on YouTubeSubscribe to Texas Tech University on YouTube Follow Texas Tech University on FlickrFollow Texas Tech University on Flickr Follow Texas Tech University on InstagramFollow Texas Tech University on Instagram Connect with Texas Tech University on LinkedInConnect with Texas Tech University on LinkedIn Contact Texas Tech UniversityContact Texas Tech University Contact Us Campus Map Jobs @ TTU Emergency Communication Center General Policy Information Public Access to Course Info Energy Management Mental Health Resources Title IX Fraud and Misconduct Hotline Online Institutional Resumes TTU System TTU Health Sciences Center TTUHSC El Paso Angelo State University Midwestern State University Statewide Search State of Texas Texas Homeland Security Texas Veterans Portal Texas CREWS SAO Fraud Reporting Open Records Requests © 2022 Texas Tech UniversityAug 19, 2020 6:30 PM eLearning & Academic Partnerships Online and Distance eLearning & Academic Partnerships Online and Distance Back Prospective Students eLearning & Academic Partnerships Online and Distance Prospective Students Back Prospective Student Portal FAQs Finish Your Degree Military and Veterans Change Your Career Current Students eLearning & Academic Partnerships Online and Distance Current Students Back Student Support Portal Student Blackboard Support Online Tutoring Degree Programs eLearning & Academic Partnerships Online and Distance Degree Programs Back Bachelor's Degrees Master's Degrees Doctoral Degrees Graduate Certificates Graduate Certification Preparation Programs All Programs Add/Change Program Student Resources eLearning & Academic Partnerships Online and Distance Student Resources Back Search Courses Tuition Estimator Out-of-State Tuition Student Disability Services Student Complaint Process Non-Degree Seeking Students Transfer Scholarships Regional Sites eLearning & Academic Partnerships Online and Distance Regional Sites Back TTU at Collin TTU at El Paso TTU at Fredericksburg TTU at Highland Lakes TTU at Hill College TTU Center at Junction TTU at Rockwall TTU at Waco TTU K‑12 Academic Partnerships eLearning & Academic Partnerships Academic Partnerships Back Office of Academic Agreements Office of Continuing Education TTU OnRamps OLLI (50+) Faculty Services About eLearning & Academic Partnerships About Back About eLearning eLearning & Academic Partnerships About About eLearning Back Org Chart History of eLearning at TTU Staff Directory eLearning Council State Authorization Campus Security Report From Anywhere Newsletter eLearning Events Social Media Contact Additional Resources TTU HomeDirectory Raiderlink A-Z Index