Skip to main content Baylor Business - Hankamer School of Business Baylor University About HSB Student Resources Giving Contact Undergraduate #BU26 Graduate MBA Programs Army-Baylor Programs Master of Business Analytics Master of Information Systems Master of Economics Master of Accountancy Master of Taxation Doctorate in Entrepreneurship Doctorate in Health Services Research Doctorate in Information Systems Areas of Study Accounting & Business Law Baylor Business Fellows Economics Entrepreneurship & Corporate Innovation Finance, Insurance & Real Estate Information Systems & Business Analytics Marketing Management Centers & Institutes Entrepreneurship Family Business Financial Markets Health Policy & Leadership International Business Nonprofit Leadership Professional Selling Real Estate Sales & Marketing Sports Strategy and Sales Technology Center Ethics Baylor Business Review Podcast Visit Hankamer About HSB Career Center Alumni About HSB Student Resources Giving Undergraduate Graduate Areas of Study Centers & Institutes Ethics HSB Areas of Study Baylor Business HSB > About HSB > Areas of Study Accounting & Business Law We offer BBA, Master of Accountancy (MAcc) and Master of Taxation (MTax) degrees and have developed combined BBA/MAcc and BBA/MTAx degrees to provide the required 150 hours to sit for the CPA exam in Texas and most other states. Our master's program graduates consistently perform above the national average on the CPA exam, as evidenced by their 6th place first-time pass rate national ranking on the November 1998 exam and 10th place first-time pass rate national ranking on the November 2000 exam. Economics At the undergraduate level, Baylor students may complete a major or minor in economics in a Bachelor of Business Administration, a Bachelor of Arts, or a Bachelor of Science degree program. Click on the name of the desired program to the left for more information. The Department of Economics offers three master's degrees: Master of Science in Economics, Master of Science in International Economics, and Master of Arts in International Economics. Entrepreneurship The Baylor Entrepreneurship Program has been dedicated to the study, teaching and practice of new venture creation and development for nearly four decades. The Baylor Entrepreneurship ranks among the top programs in the country and offers a wide variety of programs across the campus. Finance, Insurance & Real Estate The Department of Finance, Insurance and Real Estate offers four undergraduate majors in a Bachelors of Administration (BBA) degree program. Information Systems The Information Systems Department encompasses information systems (ISY), quantitative business analysis (QBA), and business communication (BUS). We offer graduate and undergraduate ISY degrees. Management The Management and Entrepreneurship faculty, comprised of a group of diverse, experienced, and highly knowledgeable professionals, is committed to developing high caliber, quality students who possess great potential for professional success. Marketing Students majoring in Marketing receive a Bachelor of Business Administration with a concentration in Marketing. Students who choose to major in Marketing must take 18 hours in Marketing beyond the Business Core Requirements--three required courses and three electives. Four marketing emphasis areas are available, but students can choose to take any three Marketing courses in addition to the three required. Search Site Map Stay Connected Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkedIn Podcast YouTube RSS Feed Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkedIn Podcast YouTube RSS Feed Baylor Business Links About HSB Advisory Board Baylor Business Brand Events Maps & Directions News Find Us Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkedIn YouTube Podcast RSS Feed Resources and Tools Canvas Digital Measures Directory Faculty/Staff Resources HSB Policies Student Resources Copyright © Baylor® University. All rights reserved. Legal Disclosures. Baylor University Waco, Texas 76798 1-800-BAYLOR-U