Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Apply Visit Give Information For Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff Search BC.edu Links Menu Main Nav Back Back Close About BC Overview President's Message Mission & History Facts & Figures Notable Alumni Campuses, Maps & Directions Trustees & Leadership Related Links Diversity BC Fact Book Office of University Communications BC Media & Publications Office for Institutional Diversity Admission Overview Apply Questbridge Applicants International Applicants Homeschooled Applicants Transfer Applicants Transfer Credit Veteran and ROTC Applicants Test-Optional Policy 2022-23 Early Decision vs. Regular Decision First-Year Admission Profile Visit Discover BC Hotels, Directions, and Parking Contact Admission Affordability Majors & Minors Morrissey College Majors Choosing BC Related Links Undergraduate Tuition & Financial Aid Financial Aid Office Graduate Admission Offices Academics Overview Schools & Colleges Majors & Minors Libraries Professional & Continuing Education Excellence & Innovation Academic Advising Related Links Academic Calendar Office of the Provost Academic Advising Center Core Curriculum Student Services Campus Life Overview Diversity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Student Organizations Sports & Recreation Arts & Culture Related Links Student Affairs McMullen Museum Robsham Theater Research Overview Research Centers & Institutes Undergraduate Research Opportunities Faculty Awards & Grants Graduate Fellowships Research Support Related Links Vice Provost for Research Sponsored Programs Research Integrity and Compliance Technology Transfer and Licensing Jesuit, Catholic Overview Catholic Intellectual Tradition Jesuit Resources Related Links Division of Mission & Ministry Campus Ministry Center for Student Formation The Church in the 21st Century Center Close Directory A to Z Listing Find pages or people Search Close Close Apply Visit Give Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close Apply HOME Admission Apply In This Section Admission Overview Apply Visit Affordability Majors & Minors Choosing BC First-Year Admission Profile We review each application with a level of thoroughness and thoughtfulness that reflects the time and effort you have invested in Boston College. In making admission decisions, we consider grades, standardized test scores, what you do outside of school, teachers’ and others’ appraisals, and how you express yourself through writing. Early Decision Transfer Students International Applicants Questbridge Applicants Homeschooled Applicants Veteran and ROTC Applicants Information for Counselors Play Message from the Director Before you begin the application process, hear from Office of Undergraduate Admission Director Grant Gosselin, who shares some advice and suggestions about applying to Boston College. 2021-2022 Application Requirements Print Explore each requirement to learn more about our application review. Check your Application Status Common Application Play Associate Director Chris O'Brien For our undergraduate admission process, Boston College uses the Common Application. We require that all candidates submit their application electronically. Please make sure to carefully select your preference for Early Decision or Regular Decision consideration on the Common Application. commonapp.org Selecting an Academic Division Candidates are required to apply to one of the University's four undergraduate academic divisions: the Morrissey College of Arts and Sciences, Carroll School of Management, Lynch School of Education and Human Development, or Connell School of Nursing. Students are only considered for admission to the division to which they applied. Students do not have to declare a specific major when applying (with the exception of Engineering* & Nursing.) Learn more about choosing an academic division. *For Fall 2022, approximately 50 first-year students will enroll in the Human-Centered Engineering (HCE) major. Because of the limited number of spaces in the entering cohort, HCE major applicants only will have the option to indicate a second major in the Morrissey College of Arts and Sciences on their application. If applicants are not offered admission to the HCE major, they may be considered for their second-choice major. The Office of Undergraduate Admission deeply values the contributions made by a diverse community of scholars. Learn more about Boston College's notice of nondiscrimination. Boston College Writing Supplement Play Senior Assistant Director Amy Chung The Boston College Writing Supplement must be submitted along with your application to Boston College at www.commonapp.org. Please do not mail or email your essay response. All applicants, except those applying for the Human-Centered Engineering (HCE) major, should respond to one of prompts #1-5 listed below. Students applying to the HCE major must respond to prompt #6 only. The writing supplement topics for the 2021-2022 application cycle (400 word limit): Students at Boston College are encouraged to consider critical questions as they pursue lives of meaning and purpose. What is a question that matters to you and how do you hope Boston College will help you answer it? In 2020, we faced a national reckoning on racial injustice in America - a reckoning that continues today. Discuss how this has affected you, what you have learned, or how you have been inspired to be a change agent around this important issue. At Boston College, we hope to draw on the Jesuit tradition of finding conversation partners to discuss issues and problems facing society. Who is your favorite conversation partner? What do you discuss with that person? Socrates stated that “the unexamined life is not worth living.” Discuss a time when reflection, prayer, or introspection led to clarity or understanding of an issue that is important to you. Each year at University Convocation, the incoming class engages in reflective dialogue around a common text. What book would you recommend for your class to read and explore together – and why? For Human-Centered Engineering major applicants only: One goal of a Jesuit education is to prepare students to serve the Common Good. Human-Centered Engineering at Boston College integrates technical knowledge, creativity, and a humanistic perspective to address societal challenges and opportunities. What societal problems are important to you and how will you use your HCE education to solve them? Standardized Testing Boston College has adopted a test-optional policy for first-year applicants to the Class of 2027. Learn more here. On your Common Application, you can indicate whether you plan to submit ACT/and or SAT scores for review or not. For those students who plan to submit ACT and/or SAT results during the 2022-23 admission cycle: Official standardized test results must be sent directly from the testing agency to Boston College (SAT Code: 3083 and ACT Code: 1788). If having score reports sent from the College Board or ACT to Boston College presents a financial hardship, applicants should have their high school guidance counselor contact the Office of Undergraduate Admission. Alternatives may be explored on a case-by-case basis. You are welcome to submit SAT Subject Tests for consideration with your application. Subject Tests in foreign languages may be used for placement during your first year. Learn more about advanced placement at Boston College. It is your responsibility to ensure that we receive all of your standardized testing by the stated application deadlines. For Early Decision I applicants as well as those applying by November 1 to meet our priority scholarship deadline, we will consider SAT results taken through the October 1 testing date and ACT results through the September 10 testing date. For those who would like us to consider ACT results from the October 22 administration, we will do our best to do so, but there is no guarantee that the score will arrive in time for review of their application. If an application is incomplete because standardized testing is missing, we will use an official score if it is received by our office by November 12. For Early Decision II and Regular Decision applicants, we will consider SAT and ACT results taken through their respective December testing dates. International applicants must submit TOEFL, IELTS, or Duolingo English Test examination scores. Learn more about standardized testing and English proficiency requirements for international applicants. High School Transcript Play Associate Director Danielle Wells Curriculum Evaluation Boston College looks for students who are in the most challenging courses available at their high schools. Our most competitive applicants tend to have a high school program with four years of the five main subjects: English, Math, Social Science, Natural Science, and Foreign Language. We do appreciate that high schools can offer a variety of programs and consider that in our application review. Submitting Your Transcript(s) All students are required to submit an official high/secondary school transcript. This transcript must be sent by your high school and can be submitted online at commonapp.org or can be mailed (see below for address). Please note that we will not accept any academic credentials from students. *In order to matriculate at Boston College, a student must submit a final high school transcript or a G.E.D. prior to enrollment. Mailing Address: Boston College Undergraduate Admission 140 Commonwealth Avenue, Devlin 208 Chestnut Hill, MA 02467 Supporting Materials In addition to the Common Application, Boston College requires that you also submit the following materials: The School Report and Counselor Recommendation Form - Your counselor or school official should submit these forms. If your school uses its own school form, we will also accept that document. Traditionally the school form is submitted with a letter of recommendation from your college counselor and your official transcript. Teacher Evaluations - You are required to submit two teacher evaluations as part of your application to Boston College. We recommend that these evaluations are written by teachers who have taught you in one of the five main academic subject areas (English, Social Studies, Science, Math, or Foreign Language). Mid-Year Grade Report (Regular Decision and Early Decision deferred candidates) - We require that the Mid-Year Grade Report be submitted as soon as it is available by your counselor or designated school official. Application Fee The application fee of $80 or application fee waiver request must be submitted in order for your application to be reviewed. Your application fee should be submitted with your Common Application. Given the volume of applications Boston College receives, we strongly recommend that you submit the application fee online. If you are unable to submit the fee online, you should mail a check or money order. *Fee Waiver Request If submitting the $80 application fee presents a financial hardship for your family and you are a U.S. citizen or permanent resident, you may apply for an application fee waiver. You may apply for a fee waiver through the Common Application. Optional Credentials for the Arts Play Assistant Director Owen Grover Students who intend to major in Studio Art can submit artistic samples/portfolios through SlideRoom. If not majoring in Studio Art, please highlight any art involvement (such as photography, painting, drawing, ceramics, digital media, and video) within the Activities or Additional Information sections of the Common Application or the QuestBridge Application. Students with a background in theater and/or music who plan to be involved in music and theater productions at Boston College are invited to showcase their talents by submitting artistic samples via SlideRoom, regardless of their intended major. If you do not intend to formally pursue these artistic talents at Boston College, but you would like to tell us about past experiences you've had in the arts, we encourage you to do so within the Activities or Additional Information sections of the Common Application or the QuestBridge Application. All materials must be received via SlideRoom by November 1 for Early Decision I or QuestBridge National College Match candidates and by January 1 for Early Decision II and Regular Decision candidates. Submissions received after these dates will not be reviewed. English Proficiency Play Associate Director Dave Weber All international applicants must demonstrate English proficiency by submitting TOEFL, IELTS, or Duolingo English Test examination results. A student is considered an international applicant if he/she is not a U.S. citizen or U.S. permanent resident. Learn more about applying as an international student. Supplementary English Proficiency Options Students attending a national school in China are encouraged to schedule an interview with InitialView. While not required, a video interview allows candidates the opportunity to demonstrate English proficiency and communication skills to the Admission Committee. Applicants should submit InitialView results by November 15 for Early Decision I and January 15 for Early Decision II and Regular Decision. Special Notice Regarding Application Deadlines In recent years, a small number of Boston College applicants have faced challenges in meeting our application deadlines through no fault of their own. Natural disasters, political unrest, local school strikes and other unexpected events can add a level of complexity to the college application process. To the extent possible, Boston College is committed to working with students or those writing recommendations to extend deadlines, if necessary. Impacted students should contact us directly to discuss their circumstances. For answers to our most frequent COVID-19 related questions, click here. Early Decision I Deadline: November 1 Early Decision I is a binding admission program for students who view Boston College as their top choice. Notification: By December 15 Early Decision applicants will be notified of their admission decision no later than December 15. Early Decision II Deadline: January 1 Early Decision II is a binding admission program for students who view Boston College as their top choice. Notification: By February 15 Early Decision applicants will be notified of their admission decision no later than February 15. Regular Decision Deadline: January 1 Regular Decision is a non-binding admission program and the majority of applicants apply through Regular Decision. Notification: By April 1 Regular Decision applicants will be notified of their admission decision no later than April 1. Spring Freshmen Deadline: November 1 Human-Centered Engineering and Nursing freshman applicants are not eligible for spring enrollment. Notification: By December 15 Spring entry freshmen applicants will be notified of their admission decision no later than December 15. Gabelli Presidential Scholars Program Each year, Boston College awards eighteen academically merit-based scholarships to incoming freshmen through the Gabelli Presidential Scholars Program. Both Early Decision and Regular Decision candidates are eligible for Presidential Scholarship consideration as long as they meet the November 1 priority scholarship deadline. No additional application materials are required for this scholarship, but please note that only candidates for fall admission will be considered. The Presidential Scholarship is a four-year, full-tuition scholarship. If a student demonstrates need beyond tuition, as determined by Boston College's institutional analysis, this need would be met with additional scholarship funds. Finalists for the Gabelli Presidential Scholars Program will be notified of their status in early January. These students will be invited to Boston College at our expense for interviews and evaluation in mid-February. They will be notified of final decisions shortly thereafter. Gabelli Presidential Scholars Program Early Decision I and II If Boston College is your unequivocal first choice, then we would urge you to consider applying through Early Decision. We expect that your academic credentials, extracurricular engagement, and personal qualities will fit the profile of currently enrolled Boston College students. Both Early Decision options are binding. If admitted through Early Decision to Boston College, you must immediately withdraw applications to other institutions and enroll at Boston College. Early Decision vs. Regular Decision How do I check my application status? We look forward to getting in touch with you through the email you provided on your Common Application or QuestBridge Application. After we receive your submission, we’ll email you login information for our Applicant Status Portal. You can check the status of your application there at any time. Please note, we do not begin downloading applications until mid-September. If you submit an early application, we will notify you once your application has been downloaded. Please add "bcapplicant@bc.edu" to your list of approved email senders to ensure that you receive this email and other important application related communications. + - How do I access my Applicant Status Portal? Within 1-2 business days of receiving your Common Application or QuestBridge Application, we’ll email you login instructions to access the portal. Please save your credentialing email, which contains your unique portal access link, so you can monitor your status throughout the admission process. You will use the same credentials for both the application process and decision notification. As a reminder, portal credentials will not be distributed until mid-September. So if you apply early, don’t worry! We’ll email you when we begin downloading applications. If you experience technical difficulties establishing your portal login credentials or you do not receive your emailed credentials after one week, please email us at bcapplicant@bc.edu. What can I do in the portal? As an applicant, you will use your Applicant Status Portal to monitor your application checklist and view your admission decision. You can also use the portal to: Check the status of your financial aid application Confirm the standardized test scores we’ve received (if you choose to include them for review) Update your email and mailing address Withdraw your application Help! I can't find my login credentials. What should I do? Within 1-2 business days of downloading your application, we’ll email your Applicant Status Portal login credentials. First, check your spam to make sure that your credential email isn’t there (Please add "bcapplicant@bc.edu" as an approved address to your email server filtering system.) If, after one week, you’ve checked your spam and you haven’t received your credentials email, please contact us at bcapplicant@bc.edu. *Reminder: Applicant Status Portal login credentials will not be distributed until mid-September. Can I submit checklist requirements through my portal? No. All required materials (transcripts, recommendations, test scores, etc.) must be submitted electronically or via mail and must be official documents. You may use your portal to upload an optional resume, but this is not required for admission. We do not accept self-reported test scores. How do I reset my portal password? If you forgot your password and you set up Challege Questions, you can conveniently change your password by clicking "Forgot Password?" on the Boston College Applicant Status Portal login screen. If you forgot your password and you did not set up Challenge Questions, please email bcapplicant@bc.edu or call Undergraduate Admission at 617-552-3100 to have your credentialing email resent to you. Back To Top Back To Top 140 Commonwealth Avenue Chestnut Hill, MA 02467 Jobs at BC Give Connect With Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube LinkedIn Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College