Skip to main content Clemson University Degrees Home Degree Programs MENU Communication (B.A.) LEARN MORE ABOUT Do you have something to say? Clemson is the place to learn how to say it — persuasively and effectively. Communication is ever evolving. Today we are blogging, tweeting, friending, liking and eblasting. Tomorrow? Who knows? The principles of effective communication, however, are timeless. As a communication major, you’ll gain important oral, written and visual communication skills to be prepared for careers in business, health, government, sports — well, anything, really — or go on to an advanced degree. Discover the best ways to be heard, read and seen. Whether you communicate through a website or from a podium. Whether you are talking to the masses or one-to-one. This is where you will find your voice. FAST FACTS Our program provides instruction in oral, visual and written communication. Our faculty have degrees from top research institutions and regularly publish in prestigious academic journals. Our students are actively involved in numerous clubs and event planning committees on campus. Our students regularly participate in internships and earn internship credit toward graduation. Our faculty are conducting cutting-edge research in health and sports communication, communication technologies and social media, and organizational communication, media and culture. WHAT YOU'LL STUDY Whether you hope to manage a business, produce documentaries, coordinate public relations and publicity for a major corporation, promote a nonprofit or tell stories as a news reporter, the secret to success is effective communication. Tell our faculty your thoughts on where you want to be at graduation, and we will work with you to get you there. Our curriculum is forward thinking, from core courses in communication theory and methods to our focused plans of study listed below. You’ll find that many classes, such as those in broadcast production and public relations, are taught by industry professionals who can give you practical insight that can put you a step ahead at graduation. If you think you want to pursue an advanced degree, this major provides a strong foundation for graduate studies in the humanities, social sciences, business and law. Students will choose from four emphasis areas: Media & Technology Studies. Strategic Communication. Health Communication. Generalist. Curriculum Communication, B.A. Popular Minors Business Administration Nonprofit Leadership Social Sciences Cluster Travel and Tourism Similar Majors English (B.A.) Language and International Business (B.A.) Marketing (B.S.) Parks, Recreation and Tourism Management (B.S.) Sociology (B.S./B.A.) EXPERIENCES BEYOND THE CLASSROOM Most of our communication students have a passion to be involved in campus activities and causes. And they excel in what they do. Involvement Our students are highly involved on campus and within communications-specific organizations such as PRSSA, SPJ, Lambda Pi Eta, Pre-Law Society and Communication Studies Ambassadors. Worldly The more you know of other cultures, the better you can communicate on many levels. So, study abroad. You don't have to speak a foreign language to take advantage of programs from Europe to Australia to South America. Speakers Gain insight and inspiration from speakers like Scott Pelley of "CBS Evening News" and "60 Minutes." The Pearce Center for Professional Communication hosts authors and experts in speaking events and workshops that are open to students. Internships Practical experience can often be the best teacher. Our students have taken advantage of internships around the nation and the world with businesses such as CNN, PBS, Target, NASCAR and Walt Disney World. TV Clemson TV is a student-run, on-campus cable network. Along with movies, CTV runs student-produced content, a sports show, professor interviews and live music. CONNECT WITH OTHER STUDENTS Public Relations Student Society of America AFTER GRADUATION Your college decision isn't really about the next four years. We get it. It's about what doors are opened by your degree and whether those opportunities are what you had envisioned for yourself. Here's a snapshot of what life after graduation looks like for some of our most recent students. WHERE OUR RECENT GRADUATES HAVE GONE KEY 41-100% 21-40% 11-20% 0-10% RECENT EMPLOYERS Multimedia Journalist 40/29 News Account Coordinator Ketchum Public Relations Program Coordinator United States Chamber of Commerce Content Associate ESPN Web Coordinator Urban Outfitters RECENT POSTGRADUATE STUDIES J.D. University of Georgia M.Ed. Athletic Leadership Clemson University M.S. Speech-Language Pathology Vanderbilt University MBA Clemson University Ph.D. Communication University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill COMMON CAREER AREAS Business Customer Service Management Training and Development Writing and Editing Public Relations and Advertising Public Relations Advertising and Marketing Corporate Public Affairs Media Analysis and Planning Creative Directing Writing and Editing Audience Analysis Public Opinion Research Media Writing and Editing Publishing Producing Managing and Directing Research Management Administration Program Coordination Grant Writing Fundraising Government Public Information Campaigning Research Lobbying Education FIND OUT MORE Have more questions or want more information? Fill out the form below, which goes directly to the following department contact. If you’d also like to receive general University information from Clemson’s admissions office, please follow the link to the right and sign up to join our mailing list. Kaela Gardner Academic Adviser kaelag@clemson.edu Department Website College Website Loading... Department Website College Website Home Admissions Campus Life Academics Visit Outreach Research About Apply To Clemson Undergraduate Graduate Professional Online Education Employment Opportunities Policy/Terms of Use Text Version Web Accessibility Ethics/Safety Line Privacy Policy Site Information Copyright © 2015 Clemson University Clemson, South Carolina 29634 864-656-3311 Contact Clemson Stories for the Clemson Family Clemson University on Facebook Clemson University on Twitter Clemson University on Google+ Clemson University on LinkedIn Clemson University on YouTube Clemson University on Flickr Clemson University on Instagram Search Clemson University degrees Clemson Degree Programs Search Alphabetical List Schedule a Visit Campus Life Admissions Costs & Financial Aid Similar Majors To Communication (B.A.) English (B.A.) Language and International Business (B.A.) Marketing (B.S.) Parks, Recreation and Tourism Management (B.S.) Sociology (B.S./B.A.)