Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Search Type Faculty & Staff Event Featured Profile News Opportunity Resource Student Research Project Videos Search Menu Info for… [Select an Audience] Employers Prospective Undergraduate Students Current Undergraduate Students Prospective Graduate Students Current Graduate Students Faculty & Staff Alumni About» History Academics» Doctoral Program Master of Science Program Master of Science in Carbon Management Program Undergraduate Program Funding Opportunities Research» Research Opportunities for Students Research Scientists Admissions» Undergraduate Admissions Graduate Admissions Resources» EEE Resources Professional Societies Library Resources Careers» Students Alumni Employers Commitment to Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion People News Bulletin Earth and Environmental Engineering Home > Academics Undergraduate Program Doctoral Program Master of Science Program Undergraduate Program Funding Opportunities The undergraduate Earth and Environmental Engineering curriculum provides students with challenging courses, hands-on laboratory class experience, and collaborative design project work. What do earth and environmental engineers do? It’s now recognized throughout the world that continuing economic development must be accompanied by the intelligent use of the Earth’s resources. Moreover, the rapid pace of globalization has introduced a host of new environmental problems to be addressed in the 21st century, ranging from the search for reliable energy and water, to the impacts of global warming, to the worldwide transmission of disease through the environment. Earth and environmental engineers can contribute much to these global efforts towards sustainable development by developing new technologies to tackle these large and complex problems. Furthermore, existing technologies that have been developed for resource (minerals, energy, water) utilization and environmental remediation can be applied to emerging challenges like resource recovery from used materials (i.e., recycling) and disease prevention. The EEE undergraduate program encompasses these technologies and trains engineers who can provide leadership and innovation in the conscientious use of Earth’s resources. Potential employers include private companies and government agencies that deal directly with environmental problems, and also a diverse spectrum of industries that increasingly require environmental expertise, including energy supply, management consulting and financial services. Graduates are also well trained to continue with master's and doctoral studies not only in earth and environmental engineering and sciences, but also business, public policy, international studies, law, and medicine. Undergraduate Program in Earth and Environmental Engineering Program Educational Objectives Graduates equipped with the necessary tools (mathematics, chemistry, physics, Earth sciences, and engineering science) will understand and implement the underlying principles used in the engineering of processes and systems. Graduates will be able to pursue careers in industry, government agencies and other organizations concerned with the environment and the provision of primary and secondary materials and energy, as well as continue their education as graduate students in related disciplines. Graduates will possess the basic skills needed for the practice of earth and environmental engineering, including measurement and control of material flows through the environment, assessment of environmental impact of past, present, and future industrial activities, and analysis and design of processes for remediation, recycling, and disposal of used materials. Graduates will practice their profession with excellent written and communication skills and with professional ethics and responsibilities. Student Outcomes An ability to identify, formulate, and solve complex engineering problems by applying principles of engineering, science, and mathematics An ability to apply engineering design to produce solutions that meet specified needs with consideration of public health, safety, and welfare, as well as global, cultural, social, environmental, and economic factors An ability to communicate effectively with a range of audiences An ability to recognize ethical and professional responsibilities in engineering situations and make informed judgments, which must consider the impact of engineering solutions in global, economic, environmental, and societal contexts An ability to function effectively on a team whose members together provide leadership, create a collaborative and inclusive environment, establish goals, plan tasks, and meet objectives An ability to develop and conduct appropriate experimentation, analyze and interpret data, and use engineering judgment to draw conclusions An ability to acquire and apply new knowledge as needed, using appropriate learning strategies. Enrollment and Graduation Statistics 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Sophomore 24 18 21 14 16 9 8 14 12 Junior 20 29 22 21 12 19 13 12 17 Senior 15 19 18 27 22 13 15 15 13 Graduated 14 15 17 26 22 13 12 12 10 Percent Graduated 93% 79% 94% 96% 100% 87% 80% 80% 77% ABET Accreditation The BS program in Earth and Environmental Engineering is accredited by the Engineering Accreditation Commission of ABET, http://www.abet.org. Degrees Offered The Earth and Environmental Engineering curriculum provides students the skills to analyze environmental processes, design systems, and solve engineering problems in preparation for future enterprises. MORE Curriculum Earth and environmental engineering is an inherently broad and multidisciplinary field. Therefore the approach of the EEE curriculum is to expose students to multiple facets within this engineering specialty, while focusing in-depth on one of three particular problem areas that are of critical importance in the 21st century. MORE Summer Internships Summer undergraduate research is encouraged in the department. A limited number of funded and unfunded internships are available. MORE Undergraduate Admissions More information about admissions is available. LEARN MORE Faculty Advisors: Professor Xi Chen Professor Upmanu Lall 500 W. 120th Street #510 New York, NY 10027 Tel (212) 854-2993 Google Maps Plan a Visit Directory Columbia Engineering Columbia University