Skip to main content MyUW Calendar Directories Libraries UW Medicine Maps UW News Helpful Links Computing/IT ISC/Workday Husky Card UW Bothell UW Tacoma UW Facebook UW Twitter University of Washington University of Washington Students Parents Faculty & Staff Alumni Quick Links Home Ways to give Get involved Alumni and friends Students Parents Faculty and staff Corporations and foundations Recognition Be Boundless Campaign The President’s Circle Cumulative Giving Recognition Henry Suzzallo Society Gates Volunteer Service Award Report to Contributors Contacts Giving FAQs Give now My UW Giving Give to the UW Menu Home Ways to give Get involved Alumni and friends Students Parents Faculty and staff Corporations and foundations Recognition Be Boundless Campaign The President’s Circle Cumulative Giving Recognition Henry Suzzallo Society Gates Volunteer Service Award Report to Contributors Contacts Giving FAQs Give now My UW Giving Home Give to the UW Memorial, tribute & honorary gifts Memorial, tribute & honorary gifts A tribute gift is a meaningful way to convey sympathy to the bereaved, memorialize a loved one, commemorate a special occasion or honor a person’s life and accomplishments. Your gift to the University of Washington made in honor or memory of this special person ensures a legacy that extends far into the future. How do I make my gift? There are three ways to make a gift: Make a gift online at uw.edu/make-a-gift Call the University of Washington Foundation at 1-877-UW-GIFTS Mail a check to the UW Foundation c/o UW Advancement, Attn: Donor Relations 4333 Brooklyn Ave. N.E. Box 359505 Seattle, WA 98195-9505 Please mention the name of the person you are honoring with your gift, and if there is a specific fund being used to honor this person. If you would like UW to notify the honoree or a family member, please also indicate the name and address of the individual to be notified. What will my gift support? Can I select the area that I would like my gift to impact? You may designate your gift to any fund (including restricted and existing endowment funds) that is particularly meaningful to you, the occasion or the honoree. A full list of all funds at the University of Washington is available here. If you do not have a preferred area, we suggest the Students First Scholarship Fund, a student scholarship fund for need-based scholarships for undergraduate, graduate and professional students. May I create a named fund or endowment to honor a special person? Endowments are a wonderful way to honor someone and leave a permanent legacy. Endowments start at $25,000 and generate an annual impact that will continue to support your or your honoree’s passions in perpetuity. There are opportunities for named spaces on campus, scholarships, program support, and more. You are encourage to speak to an advancement officer to see if this opportunity is right for you. How do I mention UW in an obituary or recommend that gifts be made to UW in lieu of flowers? We suggest that you use text similar to this: The family requests that memorial gifts be made in support of the [specified fund] at the University of Washington. Checks made payable to the “UW Foundation” can be mailed to: UW Advancement, Attn: Gift Services Box 359505 Seattle, WA 98195 Or you may make a gift online at uw.edu/giving. Please indicate that the gift is in memory of [name] by writing a memo on your check or marking the “in memory of” box when making a gift online. Should I alert the UW if I would like to direct memorial gifts to the UW? It is up to you, but we appreciate the notice! Notifying the UW in advance ensures that we are able to appropriately notify family and next-of-kin about any memorial gifts we receive. Please be prepared to provide the following information: The name of the deceased. The name and address of any next of kin where UW may send notifications of gifts. If known, the fund or program that the family wishes to support. If you have not decided, an advancement officer can help you select a fund that best honors your loved one. I have seen memorial benches and trees on campus, where do I learn more about this option? Memorial benches and trees provide an opportunity to commemorate your loved ones and beautify the UW campus. Memorial Trees can be dedicated with a gift of $500 to help procure and plant the memorial tree. Memorial Benches can be dedicated with a gift of $5,000 which helps offsets the cost of procurement and installation of the bench and the plaque. Visit the memorial tree and bench webpage to learn more. If you have additional questions please contact Contact Grounds Management at 206-255-0645 or shoress@uw.edu. DOWNLOAD THE GIFT FORM Further questions? An advancement officer would be happy to speak with you and assist you through this process. Please call 1-877-UW-GIFTS or email give2uw@uw.edu and ask for an advancement officer in the area that you intend your gift to support. Thank you for thinking of the University of Washington. Search for: Contact UW Advancement give2uw@uw.edu University of Washington Be boundless Connect with us: Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Pinterest Accessibility Contact Us Jobs Campus Safety My UW Rules Docket Privacy Terms Newsletter © 2022 University of Washington | Seattle, WA