Skip navigation Information For: Current Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Brown University Brown Grad School About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life A to Z Index People Directory Graduate School About the Graduate School Academic Events & Honors Commencement Graduate School Skip to Navigation Commencement The Graduate School will confer doctoral and master's degrees over Commencement weekend, May 27-29, 2022. Graduate students intending to complete this academic year should follow the essential steps to prepare for Commencement (including the class of 2020) and pay close attention to anouncements from the Graduate School and University leadership. Graduate Class of 2020 Pre-Registration All members of the Graduate Class of 2020, including those who received their degrees in October 2019 and February 2020, should submit a pre-registration form. The official registration will open in late March/ early April. Graduate students in terminal degrees are eligible to have degrees conferred, and to receive their diploma, at three different times during the academic year: October, February and May. See the Registrar’s website for full details. Students must complete an "Application to Graduate.” This application, which is made available by the Office of the Registrar, enables you to list your name as you would like it to appear on your diploma and the Commencement program. There is only one Graduate School Commencement ceremony in May. October and February graduates are welcome to participate. The Graduate School will reach out in late March/early April to the email address recorded on your Application to Graduate, with instructions for registering to attend and participate. For more general information on Commencement weekend, including the weekend schedule, please visit the Commencement website. Questions about Commencement for graduate students should be sent to [email protected]. Home About the Graduate School People Mission & Facts Diversity and Inclusion News & Communications Academic Events & Honors Orientation Commencement Graduating Students: Service & Email Changes Awards Events & Series Initiatives in Doctoral Education and Support Graduate Student Resources Maps & Directions Healthy Brown FAQs for Graduate Students Academics & Research Living & Resources Financing & Support Admitted Students & Orientation Application Information For Graduate Students For Faculty and Staff Related Items Graduate School PhD Exit Survey Commencement Website Brown University Brown University Graduate School Box 1867 Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-2600 Maps & Directions / Contact Us / Accessibility © 2022 Brown University Resources Graduate School Handbook Academic Code CareerLAB Brown University Writing Center Sarah Doyle Center for Women and Gender Sheridan Center for Teaching & Learning Top Destinations Admission Inquiry Form Commencement Five-Year Ph.D. Support Open Graduate Education External Funding Application Process International Applicants