Skip to main content Menu Resources Home Admissions Campus Life Academics Visit Outreach Research About Apply or Give Apply Now Make a Gift Academic Advising Academic Advising The purpose and mission of academic advising are noted under the General Information section in the Undergraduate Announcements: Academic advising is an on-going educational process that connects the student to the University. Academic advising supports the University's mission of preparing the student for learning beyond the confines of the academy. Academic advisors represent and interpret University policies and procedures to the student and help the student navigate the academic and organizational paths of the institution. To ensure that students receive both personal and professional assistance in navigating through curricula and University requirements toward degree completion and graduation, each student is assigned to an academic advisor (either professional or faculty advisor). Advisors are available to assist students with issues related to degree planning, course selection, withdrawals, degree requirements, academic policies, academic difficulty, campus resources, internships/practicum opportunities, and career/graduate school planning. Students are responsible for adhering to academic policies, preparing for advising meetings and taking ownership for their educational experience. Students receive academic advising materials from their advisors during pre-registration advising meetings. Students uncertain of their assigned advisor are encouraged to seek assistance from the departmental office/advising center for their major. For more information, visit http://www.clemson.edu/academics/advising/. The following statement regarding academic advising is noted under the Academic Regulations section in the Undergraduate Announcements: Each student is assigned an academic advisor in [their] major area. It is the responsibility of the student to consult with [their] advisor during registration. The advisor will assist the student in scheduling courses so as to fulfill the requirements of the degree program; nevertheless, it is the responsibility of the student to fulfill the relevant requirements of the degree. For more information, visit http://www.clemson.edu/academics/advising/. All academic advisors should review the academic advising resource manual each year for detailed information regarding their roles, responsibilities, and resources. Advisor Responsibilities (modified from NACADA Advising Guidelines) Maintain knowledge of Clemson University degree requirements, policies, procedures, and technologies. Maintain regular appointment availability for assigned academic advisees. Meet with all assigned academic advisees once per term and provide registration PINs following pre-registration academic advising appointments. Monitor progress toward educational goals and help select courses at each registration period based on curriculum and University requirements. Maintain accurate and thorough records of academic advising appointments and inform students of where they may access records. Review and approve applicable educational transactions in a timely manner (e.g., change of academic program, academic forgiveness, course substitutions, approvals to take coursework elsewhere, etc. Inform students of available administrative, academic, and personal services and resources. Connect with students on academic probation to support their academic success. Protect the privacy of student information as set forth in The Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act (FERPA) (20 U.S.C. 1232; 34 CFR Part 99). Refer students when academic or personal problems require intervention by other professionals. For non-emergency reports of student issues, visit the CARE network: https://www.clemson.edu/studentaffairs/advocacy-success/care-network/ Student Responsibilities Seek assistance from their assigned academic advisor if they wish to adjust their academic program (e.g., major, concentration/emphasis, minor, catalog year). Schedule an appointment with their assigned academic advisor prior to registration. Minimize appointment cancellations/no-shows outside of extenuating circumstances. Prepare for academic advising appointments and review relevant resources. Engage in an active dialogue with their advisor and follow through on next steps identified during each academic advising appointment. Create and maintain access to academic advising records. Maintain knowledge of Clemson University degree requirements, policies, procedures, and technologies relevant to their educational goals. Always maintain awareness of their academic standing. Contact ugseligibility@clemson.edu with questions. Maintain knowledge of important dates and deadlines on the academic calendar. Accept final responsibility for all decisions, including those related to any/all scholarships they receive. Academic advisors cannot and do not advise in reference to meeting scholarship requirements. Advising Tools Academic Calendar Advisor Manual CU Navigate GPA calculator Registration Portal Undergraduate Catalog Registrar's Forms Home Students Advisors Contacts By College College Advising Websites College of Agriculture, Forestry and Life Sciences College of Architecture, Arts, and Humanities College of Behavioral, Social and Health Sciences College of Business College of Education College of Engineering, Computing and Applied Science College of Science Related Links Undergraduate Studies Academics Academic Success Center Center for Career and Professional Development Internship Programs Home Admissions Campus Life Academics Visit Outreach Research About Apply To Clemson Undergraduate Graduate Professional Online Education Employment Opportunities Policy/Terms of Use Text Version Web Accessibility Ethics/Safety Hotline Privacy Policy Site Information Copyright © 2022 Clemson University Clemson, South Carolina 29634 864-656-3311 Contact Clemson Stories for the Clemson Family Clemson University on Facebook Clemson University on Twitter Clemson University on LinkedIn Clemson University on Flickr Clemson University on Instagram