Skip to main content Google Tag Manager Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Alumni Association Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Alumni Clubs Alumni Community Benefits CAA Arts Access Career Resources Events Get Involved News Columbia Alumni Association You are here: Home CAA Chicago | P2: The Murder of Fred Hampton & the Chicago BPP Events Past Event CAA Chicago | P2: The Murder of Fred Hampton & the Chicago BPP Share Add to Calendar: Calendar / Outlook Google Yahoo March 30, 2022 6:30 PM - 9:00 PM America/Chicago Online P2: The Murder of Fred Hampton & the Chicago BPP. History of Chicago Series. Join Dr. Chris Stacey for a presentation on the emergence of the Black Panther Party in Chicago, Fred Hampton’s Role in the BPP, and the events leading to his death on December 4, 1969 at the age of twenty-one. In Part Two, we’ll explore Fred Hampton’s life as an activist at Proviso East High School and his work in traditional Civil Rights organizations before co-founding the Chicago BPP with Bobby Rush. One aspect we want to explore is the accuracy of a traditional historiographical dichotomy between “non-violent Civil Rights organizations and violent Black Power organizations.” We’ll survey the political landscape in Chicago during the late 1960s including the African American sub-machine under the Daley regime. We’ll examine the “shoot-to-kill” order and the CPD’s policing tactics in the late 1960s and why the department targeted the BPP. We’ll discuss the BPP’s ideology and community programs and the events leading up to the murder of Fred Hampton. Of special interest is the BPP’s creation of multi-ethnic alliances across the city and why the BPP gained acceptance in certain African American communities. We’ll work to contextualize the legacy of Fred Hampton and the Chicago BPP by looking at the movement for community control of the police and the critically acclaimed film Judas and the Black Messiah. In terms of the film, we can have a rich discussion comparing how the Hollywood portrayal of Fred Hampton converges and diverges from the documented details of his life. Contact Information CAA Chicago [email protected] Upcoming Events Columbia Alumni Center 622 West 113th Street, Mail Code 4525 · New York, NY 10025 Phone 212-851-7800 Contact Us [email protected] Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close