Skip to main content Toggle subitems Main navigation Meet Princeton Toggle sub-items In Service of Humanity Facts & Figures History Honors & Awards Contact Us Visit Us Our Faculty Our Students Our Alumni Our Staff Our Leadership Academic Freedom and Free Expression Academics Toggle sub-items Studying at Princeton Library Areas of Study Humanities Social Sciences Engineering Natural Sciences Advising Academic Calendar Course Tools Learning Abroad Career Development Continuing Education Innovative Learning Research Toggle sub-items Engineering & Applied Science Humanities Natural Sciences Social Sciences Interdisciplinary Approach Dean for Research Office External Partnerships Facilities & Labs One Community Toggle sub-items Lifelong Connections Student Life Arts & Culture Athletics Living in Princeton, N.J. Housing & Dining Activities & Organizations Cultural & Affinity Groups Health & Wellness Religious Life Serving the Public Good Families Admission & Aid Toggle sub-items Affordable for All About Financial Aid Current Undergraduate Financial Aid Undergraduate Admission Graduate Admission For International Students Utility menu News Events Work at Princeton Services & Resources Work-Life Balance Links for Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Giving Search Sites & People × Share on Facebook Share on Twitter Share on LinkedIn Email Print Environmental research at Princeton is addressing the world's challenges The Office of Communications Oct. 15, 2020, noon Environmental challenges have galvanized activity across Princeton’s campus in recent years like few other issues in our history. From physical, biological and applied sciences to art, architecture, psychology, policy and more, research groups across the University are tackling some of the toughest problems facing humanity with the fullest range of toolkits. To capture the imposing volume of work and to share the remarkable legacy it is built upon, the University has launched a new digital initiative. A flagship website — Princeton Environmental Research: A Half-Century at the Forefront — now serves as a single portal for non-expert users to more easily access and smoothly navigate the full scope of research activity arising out of more than a dozen different academic units. “Rather than expect people from beyond the University to scan all our schools, departments, centers and institutes, we wanted to help them find the best work and the brightest talent in a single place,” said David Burden, deputy vice president and head of content strategy for the Office of Communications. “We also want people to be able to discover new ideas, emerging experts and unexpected connections across disciplines.” Play video: Play Video: Princeton: A Half-Century at the Environmental Forefront Princeton University’s research across the spectrum of environmental issues is making pivotal contributions to solving some of humanity’s toughest problems. Our impact is built on a legacy of personal commitment, intellectual leadership, perseverance and innovation that stretches back more than fifty years. Video produced by the Office of Communications and Talking Eyes Media The University has also produced a video history of Princeton’s exceptional contributions to environmental knowledge. “It’s not just our history, it’s part of the history of science,” said Margaret Koval, director of special projects in the Office of Communications and executive producer of the video. “Climate modeling, energy research, conservation biology, paleo-climate studies — these are just a few areas where Princeton has made important breakthroughs.” Princeton’s environmental focus began in 1971 with the Center for Environmental Studies. The Princeton Environmental Institute was founded in 1994, and in 2008, a visionary gift by Gerhard Andlinger, Class of 1952, established the Andlinger Center for Energy and the Environment. Meanwhile, a swath of departments from geosciences to ecology and evolutionary biology embraced and advanced environmental missions. Additional momentum came in 2016, when the University trustees released a strategic framework committing to enhance Princeton’s academic capacities in environmental studies even further. They wrote: “Issues related to the environment, including climate change and other global-scale phenomena, are among the most urgent problems now facing the world. ... Princeton is fortunate to have on its faculty extraordinary natural scientists, engineers, social scientists and humanists whose innovative scholarship and teaching is helping us understand the problems we face and develop solutions to crises of unprecedented scope and potentially catastrophic impact.” Princeton Environmental Research: A Half-Century at the Forefront features the work of Princeton’s many experts, organized by research themes such as climate, biodiversity, energy and sustainability. It also enables users to explore the interdisciplinary nature of research by using cross-cutting search terms, such as policy, health and innovation. The site aggregates key environmental events on campus and present stories and videos documenting the University’s historic and recent contributions. Princeton: A half-century at the environmental forefront View All News Net-Zero America: How state policymakers can use data from Princeton's pioneering study to meet climate goals Research: Read more The future of food in a changing climate Research: Read more Tough, timely and team-driven: 50 years of energy research Research: Read more From muddy boots to mathematics: Advancing the science of ecosystems and biodiversity Research: Read more Water, drought and flooding Research: Read more Climate modeling at Princeton Research: Read more Contact links Contact Us Accessibility Advanced People Search Media Inquiries Website Feedback Visiting links Plan a Visit Maps & Shuttles Varsity Athletics Giving to Princeton Academic links Library Academic Calendar Student Links Faculty & Staff Links Footer social media Facebook Twitter Instagram Snapchat LinkedIn YouTube Social Media Directory Equal Opportunity and Nondiscrimination at Princeton University: Princeton University believes that commitment to principles of fairness and respect for all is favorable to the free and open exchange of ideas, and the University seeks to reach out as widely as possible in order to attract the ablest individuals as students, faculty, and staff. In applying this policy, the University is committed to nondiscrimination on the basis of personal beliefs or characteristics such as political views, religion, national or ethnic origin, race, color, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity or expression, pregnancy, age, marital or domestic partnership status, veteran status, disability, genetic information and/or other characteristics protected by applicable law in any phase of its education or employment programs or activities. In addition, pursuant to Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 and supporting regulations, Princeton does not discriminate on the basis of sex in the education programs or activities that it operates; this extends to admission and employment. Inquiries about the application of Title IX and its supporting regulations may be directed to the Assistant Secretary for Civil Rights, Office for Civil Rights, U.S. Department of Education or to the University's Sexual Misconduct/Title IX Coordinator. See Princeton’s full Equal Opportunity Policy and Nondiscrimination Statement. Princeton University Princeton, NJ 08544 Operator: (609) 258-3000 © 2022 The Trustees of Princeton University Subfooter links Copyright Infringement Privacy Notice