Texas Tech University Directory Raiderlink A-Z Index University Student Housing Menu Search TTU Housing Work for Housing Your Next Opportunity Awaits! University Student Housing is here to serve our students and our team. We look for professionals with a passion for excellence who believe in the power of teamwork, civility, and leadership. Together, we maintain over two million square feet and serve a community of over 8,000 students within our Residence Halls. As one of the largest employers on campus, our department offers the stability, success, and values you can be proud to represent as a professional and a Red Raider. Whether you are a student, an experienced professional, or just starting your career, University Student Housing offers an array of opportunities that are right for you! Open Professional Staff Positions Facilities - Custodian ( Apply to Requisition 27555BR ) ( Apply to Requisition 28017BR ) ( Apply to Requisition 28559BR ) ( Apply to Requisition 28560BR ) ( Apply to Requisition 28561BR ) Custodial staff with University Student Housing serve students by performing daily cleaning operations in accordance with departmental standards, perform emergency cleaning, conduct specialty floor, and carpet treatments, perform room turnovers when summer conference operations are in session, report property damage and repairs, and participate in annual winter break residence hall cleaning. This position serves in an on-call rotation. Facilities - Tradesperson (Carpentry) ( Apply to Requisition 28631BR ) The Tradesperson (Carpentry) with University Student Housing serves students by performing carpentry tasks in the residence halls on campus. This staff member works with all grades and types of hard woods, plywood, sheetrock, and waterproof sheeting. Facilities - Tradesperson (Exterior Maintenance) ( Apply to Requisition 28010BR ) The Tradesperson (Exterior Maintenance) with University Student Housing serves students by maintaining attractive entrances to all Residence Hall facilities. This staff member performs routine maintenance, trade work, fixture upkeep, high pressure washing, paint removal, inspects the buildings to determine causes of issues, and maintains all exterior lighting, electrical, wall, and ground services. Facilities - Technician I (Warehouse) ( Apply to Requisition 28011BR ) The Technician I (Warehouse) with University Student Housing serves students by ensuring that the Warehouse is safe, clean, and organized. This staff member manages and maintains the Warehouse supply, receives all incoming products and checks for accuracy, ensures all items are entered into the computer system correctly, and inventories the Warehouse every 90 days. Residence Life - Unit Manager (Academic Initiatives) ( Apply to Requisition 28257BR ) The Manager (Academic Initiatives) oversees Learning Community Operations for all residential Learning Communities on-campus, and oversees the nightly Residential Tutoring program within the residence halls. This staff member coordinates large scale academic initiatives and trains and guides staff in supporting student academic success. Residence Life - Unit Manager (Civic Engagement and Inclusion Initiatives) ( Apply to Requisition 28273BR ) The Unit Manager (Civic Engagement and Inclusion Initiatives) with University Student Housing serves students by performing responsibilities in supervision/advising, Civic Engagement and Inclusion Initiatives, Administration, and On-Call/Crisis Response. The Unit Manager (Civic Engagement and Inclusion Initiatives) coordinates large-scale events, alternative Spring Break trips, training and leadership development programs, and creates a Residence Hall environment that is inclusive and supportive for underrepresented staff and students. This position directly supervises a full-time Residence Life Advisor, a Graduate Assistant for Civic Engagement and Inclusion, and an ACUHO-I Summer Intern, and serves as an advisor to various departmental organizations and committees. This position serves in an on-call rotation. Residence Life - Unit Manager (Student Intervention and Prevention Programs) ( Apply to Requisition 28274BR ) The Manager (Student Intervention and Prevention Programs) serves as a case manager for University Student Housing. This staff member coordinates prevention programming efforts within University Student Housing, with a focus on the holistic wellness of students, and trains and provides consultation to departmental and university staff on responding to Students of Concern within the residence halls. Open Student Staff Positions Administration and Business Services - Housing Ambassador ( Apply to Requisition 26237BR ) Housing Ambassador staff work in the University Student Housing Welcome Center and provide excellent customer service to students, parents, and guests in-person, via phone, email, and chat. Housing Ambassadors assist in university and department recruitment efforts by hosting residence hall tours and serving as a resource to students and staff. Housing Ambassadors receive $9.00/Hour and are offered up to 20 hours of work per week. Administration and Business Services - Marketing Student Assistant ( Apply to Requisition 27070BR ) Marketing Student Assistant staff perform creative and administrative duties within the Marketing area as assigned. Duties include, but are not limited to, taking, and editing professional photos and developing graphic design for use on social media, the department website and various department marketing campaigns. This position also assists in posting important events and updates to department social media pages, maintaining inventory of marketing give-a-way items, preparing new employee onboarding bags and assisting with assigned projects. Student Assistants receive $9.00/Hour and are offered up to 20 hours of work per week. We recruit for our Student Staff, Graduate Assistants, and ACUHO-I Interns seasonally or as we have opportunities become available. Check-out all of the opportunities we offer below and continue to check back here for open positions. All Student Staff Positions Administration and Business Services - Student Ambassadors Housing Ambassador staff work in the University Student Housing Welcome Center and provide excellent customer service to students, parents, and guests in-person, via phone, email, and chat. Housing Ambassadors assist in university and department recruitment efforts by hosting residence hall tours and serving as a resource to students and staff. Housing Ambassadors receive $9.00/Hour and are offered up to 20 hours of work per week. Administration and Business Services - IT and Support Student Assistant IT & Support Student Assistant staff travel between residence halls troubleshooting general issues with department issued computers and printers, set-up new devices for staff and department office locations, repair computer and printer equipment as needed, troubleshoot website issues, assist professional programmer and technician staff as requested and complete projects as assigned. Student Assistants receive $9.00/Hour and are offered up to 20 hours of work per week. Administration and Business Services - Marketing Student Assistant Marketing Student Assistant staff perform creative and administrative duties within the Marketing area as assigned. Duties include, but are not limited to, taking, and editing professional photos and developing graphic design for use on social media, the department website and various department marketing campaigns. This position also assists in posting important events and updates to department social media pages, maintaining inventory of marketing give-a-way items, preparing new employee onboarding bags and assisting with assigned projects. Student Assistants receive $9.00/Hour and are offered up to 20 hours of work per week. Administration and Business Services - Marketing Student Videographer Student Videographers plan, create and edit video content for social media, the department website and various department marketing campaigns. This position works closely with department professional staff and assists with taking and editing professional photos, posting important events and updates to department social media pages, maintaining inventory of marketing give-a-way items, preparing new employee onboarding bags and assisting with assigned projects. Student Assistants receive $10.00/Hour and are offered up to 20 hours of work per week. Administration and Business Services - Personnel Office Student Assistant Personnel Office Student Assistant staff perform administrative duties to assist in department onboarding and offboarding efforts. Administrative functions include, but are not limited to, scanning, updating spreadsheets, making copies, preparing packets, and assisting in staff recruitment efforts as directed. Student Assistants receive $9.00/Hour and are offered up to 20 hours of work per week. Facilities - Interior Design Student Assistants Interior Design Student Assistant will work on CAD drawings, select finishes, and make sample boards. They will work on various remodeling projects, attend progress meetings, and keep a digital record of each one. They will work with each trade we have here at housing; carpenters, painters, upholstery, etc. They will help decorate showrooms, supervise installations, inventory furniture, and attend weekly project meetings. They will help maintain the library and meet with various manufacturer rep's. They will shadow the licensed Sr. designers daily. Facilities - Trades Student Assistants Trades Student Assistants work with one specific trade area, typically Paint, Electric, HVAC, Carpentry, Plumbing, or Maintenance. They assist with work orders, preventative maintenance, projects, and customer service while learning more about the designated trade. Facilities - Facilities Coordinator Student Assistants Facilities-Facilities Coordinator Student Assistants Facilities Coordinator Student Assistants are responsible for assisting the Facility Coordinator team with overnight building maintenance, safety checks, reporting, and customer service. They work independently to ensure that our residence halls are operating as they should overnight while helping students with any issues that may arise. Facilities - Front Office Student Assistants Front Office Student Assistants work in our Housing Services main office to assist with work control, customer service, and general office duties, such as scanning, copying, entering and processing work orders, and other roles as needed. Additionally, they assist with all facilities internal marketing, including staff appreciation days, recognition, team photography, and more. Residence Life - Community Advisor Community Advisor staff work within the residence halls and are responsible for establishing a community environment that is focused on student learning and student success. To accomplish this, the Community Advisor is expected to play a variety of roles. Community Advisors must be flexible and creative in their role as an educator, advisor, mentor, and educational programmer to meet the needs of their residents. This position requires a substantial time commitment and the ability to be available and accessible to the members of their community. Community Advisors receive compensation in the form of housing, a meal plan, and a monthly stipend. Learning more about our Residence Life student staff opportunities here. Residence Life - Residential Tutor Residential Tutor staff have primary responsibilities in providing peer tutoring in specific subject area(s) to University Student Housing residents and TTU students. Residential tutors are expected to break down and simplify complex information to students and assist students' identification and resolution of personal learning styles, preferences and habits as well as refer students to additional academic support services as appropriate. Residential Tutors receive $9.00/Hour and are offered up to 12 hours of work per week. Learning more about our Residence Life student staff opportunities here. Residence Life - Student Assistant Residence Life Student Assistant staff have primary responsibilities in providing customer service to University Student Housing residents, guests, parents, families, and University faculty, staff, and other officials. The SA provides administrative support through the 24-hour service desk and assists in maintaining the safety and security of the residence hall facilities. The Student Assistant work schedule will vary to maintain the 24-hour desk operation. Student Assistants will be required to work a minimum of one three-hour shift per week between the hours of 12:00am – 9:00am. Student Assistants receive $9.00/Hour and are offered up to 20 hours of work per week. Learning more about our Residence Life student staff opportunities here. Residence Life - Social Justice Advocate Social Justice Advocate staff have primary responsibilities in providing leadership and advocacy in the promotion of diversity, multiculturalism, social identity, and social justice within the residential communities at Texas Tech. This also plans and implements programs for residents living within the residence halls across the Texas Tech campus. Social Justice Advocates receive $9.00/Hour and are offered up to 20 hours of work per week. Learning more about our Residence Life student staff opportunities here. Residence Life - Summer Community Advisor Summer Community Advisor staff live in the residence halls and have primary responsibilities in community building, administration, on-call/crisis response, and departmental and campus support. Summer Community Advisors are responsible for establishing a community environment that is focused on student learning and student success. To accomplish this, Summer Community Advisors are expected to play a variety of roles. The Summer Community Advisor must be flexible and creative in their role as an educator, advisor, mentor, and educational programmer to meet the needs of their residents. This position requires a substantial time commitment and the ability to be available and accessible to the members of their community. This position is typically employed late May through early August. Summer Community Advisors receive compensation in the form of housing, a meal plan, and a monthly stipend. Learning more about our Residence Life student staff opportunities here. Residence Life - Summer Conference Staff Summer Conference Staff live in the residence halls and assist in the daily management and operation of a Residence Hall/Complex during the summer conference season. As a member of the Residence Life staff, the Conference Staff work professional staff and interns in creating a positive environment for all campus guests. Many times, the Conference Staff is the first contact individuals experience in the residence halls and at Texas Tech University. This position is typically employed late May through early August. Summer Conference staff receive compensation in the form of housing, a meal plan, and a monthly stipend. Learning more about our Residence Life student staff opportunities here. Residence Life - Summer Guest Services Specialist Summer Guest Services Specialist staff assist in the daily management and operation of a Residence Hall/Complex during the summer conference season. As a member of the Residence Life staff, the Guest Services Specialist works with professional staff and interns in creating a positive environment for all campus guests. Weekly work will include desk coverage at conference residence halls, weekly meetings, housekeeping assistance, building preparation, and other summer operational tasks. Many times, the Guest Services Specialist is the first contact individuals experience in the residence halls and at Texas Tech University. This position is typically employed late May through early August. Guest Services Specialists receive $10.00/Hour and are offered up to 20 hours of work per week. Learning more about our Residence Life student staff opportunities here. All Graduate Assistantships Graduate Hall Coordinator We recruit our Graduate staff through the Oshkosh Placement Exchange and Independent Search. If you are independently searching, please contact Rachel Kloc, Unit Manager of Student Staff Operations and Training at rachel.kloc@ttu.edu. The Graduate Hall Coordinator has primary responsibilities in supervision, administration, on-call crisis response, building management and advising. Graduate Hall Coordinators are members of the Residence Life Professional Staff team and are supervised by a Residence Life Coordinator. The Graduate Hall Coordinator position assists in the recruitment, training, and supervision of assigned paraprofessional staff. This position also assists in the management and implementation of the Residential Curriculum, completing student of concern reports, collaborating with internal and external stakeholders, and promoting community development. This position also advises or co advises student organizations as assigned and works to track and maintain complex council account ledgers. Learn more about our Graduate Opportunities here. Graduate Assistant - Residence Education and Academic Programs - Learning Communities We recruit our Graduate staff through the Oshkosh Placement Exchange and Independent Search. If you are independently searching, please contact Rachel Kloc, Unit Manager of Student Staff Operations and Training at rachel.kloc@ttu.edu. The Graduate Assistant-Residence Education and Academic Programs has primary responsibilities in supervision and advising, administration, on-call crisis response, and learning communities. The Graduate Assistant is a member of the Residence Life Professional Staff team and is supervised by a Manager in Residence Life. This position places a special focus on Coordinating, facilitating, and recording minutes for monthly Learning Community Stakeholder Meetings, coordinating the learning community luncheon, promoting learning community development through LC themed programs, events, and initiatives, and communicating effectively with stakeholders. This position also o-coordinates the annual professing excellence event. Learn more about our Graduate Opportunities here. Graduate Assistant - Residence Education and Academic Programs - Residential Tutors We recruit our Graduate staff through the Oshkosh Placement Exchange and Independent Search. If you are independently searching, please contact Rachel Kloc, Unit Manager of Student Staff Operations and Training at rachel.kloc@ttu.edu. The Graduate Assistant- Residence Education and Academic Programs has primary responsibilities in supervision and advising, administration, on-call crisis response, and residential tutoring. The Graduate Assistant is a member of the Residence Life Professional Staff team and is supervised by a Manager in Residence Life. This position places a special focus on coordinating all aspects of the residential tutoring program, collaborating with marketing to effectively recruit students for tutoring sessions, co-coordinating the annual professing excellent program, assisting in the development and implementation of departmental academic initiatives, and communicating with stakeholders. Learn more about our Graduate Opportunities here. Graduate Assistant - Student Intervention and Prevention Programs We recruit our Graduate staff through the Oshkosh Placement Exchange and Independent Search. If you are independently searching, please contact Rachel Kloc, Unit Manager of Student Staff Operations and Training at rachel.kloc@ttu.edu. The Graduate Assistant- Student Intervention and Prevention Programs has primary responsibilities in supervision and advising, administration, on-call crisis response, and student intervention and prevention programs. The Graduate Assistant is a member of the Residence Life Professional Staff and is supervised by a Manager in Residence Life. This position places a special focus on assisting in the development and implementation of prevention programs within University Student Housing, serving as a primary program facilitating with the Full Circle Success program and assisting with minimal low-level student intervention cases as assigned. Learn more about our Graduate Opportunities here. All ACUHO-I Internships Academic Initiatives Internship We recruit our interns through the ACUHO-I Internship Program. The Academic Initiatives Intern is supervised by the Manager of Academic Initiatives. Projects may include develop a marketing plan for Residential Tutoring; research, propose, and develop a learning community stakeholder recognition program, assist with training, hiring, and planning fall training for Residential Tutors, plan faculty/staff move-in volunteers initiative, review and analyze Residential Tutoring data, and review and analyze Learning Community data. The intern will attend departmental staff meetings and may have the opportunity to attend other meetings as available. Additionally, the intern may serve on departmental committees, task forces, or assist with collateral assignments to create and implement intentional experiences that support the department and university mission (assigned by supervisory personnel). Learn more about our ACUHO-I Internships here. Conference Services Internship We recruit our interns through the ACUHO-I Internship Program. Conference Services Interns are supervised by the Manager for Conference Services. Projects may include assisting with camp and conference check-ins and check-outs, facilitating client meetings, conference guest room assignments, cross-training and working with housekeeping for building turnovers, coordinating final details for camps and conferences with clients, creating signage, providing direct or indirect supervision of student paraprofessionals, which may include Student Conference Staff, and assisting the Manager for Conference Services. The Intern may also work with student orientation, thereby having the opportunity to meet and talk with partners and departments from all areas of the University. The Intern will also be responsible for ongoing student paraprofessional recognition including the end of summer recognition event. The intern will attend departmental staff meetings and may have the opportunity to attend other meetings as available. Additionally, the intern may serve on departmental committees, task forces, or assist with collateral assignments to create and implement intentional experiences that support the department and university mission (assigned by supervisory personnel). Learn more about our ACUHO-I Internships here. Housing Facilities Internship We recruit our interns through the ACUHO-I Internship Program. The Housing Facilities Intern is supervised by the Manager of Facilities Services. The Housing Facilities Intern will assist with Housing Facilities Projects. These projects may include learning to interpret blueprints and contract specifications for renovations, coordinating between Residence Life and Facilities for utility shutdowns, representing Facilities in the Conference Stakeholders Meetings, working with Sustainability initiatives and utility usage/billing analysis; research and analysis of the work order system; assisting with interpreting and communication of assessments; and assisting with project development. The Housing Facilities Intern may also work in the Housing Facilities office on other projects. The Housing Facilities Intern is expected to work with the facilities management team in maintenance, renovation, housekeeping and interior design, purchasing/inventory, sustainability and other departmental staff in the development and implementation of management and learning initiatives for the entire housing facilities operation. The intern will attend departmental staff meetings and may have the opportunity to attend other meetings as available. Additionally, the intern may serve on departmental committees, task forces, or assist with collateral assignments to create and implement intentional experiences that support the department and university mission (assigned by supervisory personnel). Learn more about our ACUHO-I Internships here. Information Technology Internship We recruit our interns through the ACUHO-I Internship Program. The Information Technology Intern is supervised by the Manager of Information Technology. The Information Technology Intern will assist with various tasks, ranging from web and software development to support of vendor systems and hardware workstation technologies. Job duties may include creating documentation of existing software systems; modifying existing solutions; helping to move, install, configure, remove, and surplus hardware equipment; managing periodic announcements about technology changes; writing or altering reports; organizing data; and performing server maintenance and support. The intern will attend departmental staff meetings and may have the opportunity to attend other meetings as available. Additionally, the intern may serve on departmental committees, task forces, or assist with collateral assignments to create and implement intentional experiences that support the department and university mission (assigned by supervisory personnel). Learn more about our ACUHO-I Internships here. Marketing and Communications Internship We recruit our interns through the ACUHO-I Internship Program. The Marketing and Communications Intern is supervised by the Manager of Marketing and Communications. The Marketing and Communications will assist with various summer assignments, including summer conferences, and New Student Orientation. Job duties may include assisting the Manager of Marketing and Communication for University Student Housing marketing efforts; websites; press releases; newsletters; publications; other communications; and special events. The Intern will also oversee development and implementation of the University Student Housing brand and department adherence to the Texas Tech University branding guidelines. The University Student Housing Marketing and Communications Intern will also assist with strategic marketing and public relations campaigns. The University Student Housing Marketing and Communications Intern must have the ability to work with a diverse public: faculty, staff, and campus/community partners. The intern will attend departmental staff meetings and may have the opportunity to attend other meetings as available. Additionally, the intern may serve on departmental committees, task forces, or assist with collateral assignments to create and implement intentional experiences that support the department and university mission (assigned by supervisory personnel). Learn more about our ACUHO-I Internships here. Recruitment and Training Internship We recruit our interns through the ACUHO-I Internship Program. The Recruitment and Training Intern is supervised by the Associate Director of Student Staff Recruitment and Training. Projects may include assisting with the recruitment and training of student and professional staff; assisting with the development and communication of assessments; assisting with development of academic year development series for student and professional staff; and assisting with the development of campus and community partnerships. This job will also assist in researching best practices in training and recruitment. The intern will attend departmental staff meetings and may have the opportunity to attend other meetings as available. Additionally, the intern may serve on departmental committees, task forces, or assist with collateral assignments to create and implement intentional experiences that support the department and university mission (assigned by supervisory personnel). Learn more about our ACUHO-I Internships here. Student Leadership Internship We recruit our interns through the ACUHO-I Internship Program. The Student Leadership Intern is supervised by the Assistant Director for Student Leadership Development. While direct contact with student leaders will be somewhat limited, the intern will work on significant projects that directly and significantly benefit Texas Tech students. Projects may include assisting in the development of Service Week, creation of complex council election advertisements and materials, assisting with the development of the annual Complex Council retreat, assisting with the Howdy TECHsan early move-in leadership program, fall traditional event preparation, social justice benchmarking and compilation of area assessment data, and updating and creating materials for Alternative Spring Break leaders. The intern will attend departmental staff meetings and may have the opportunity to attend other meetings as available. Additionally, the intern may serve on departmental committees, task forces, or assist with collateral assignments to create and implement intentional experiences that support the department and university mission (assigned by supervisory personnel). Learn more about our ACUHO-I Internships here. Summer School Internship We recruit our interns through the ACUHO-I Internship Program. The Summer School Intern is supervised by the Residence Life Coordinator(s) for Summer School Operations. Projects may include assisting with residence hall transition from Spring to Summer, Summer Session I to Summer Session II, and Summer Session II to Fall; assisting in training, supervision, and evaluation of 6-17 summer Community Advisors; facilitating weekly meetings with student staff; assisting with the execution of the Residential Curriculum; serving in an on-call rotation and assisting with oversight and scheduling of front desk operations. The intern will attend departmental staff meetings and may have the opportunity to attend other meetings as available. Additionally, the intern may serve on departmental committees, task forces, or assist with collateral assignments to create and implement intentional experiences that support the department and university mission (assigned by supervisory personnel). Learn more about our ACUHO-I Internships here. Welcome Center Internship We recruit our interns through the ACUHO-I Internship Program. The Welcome Center Intern is supervised by the Manager of the Welcome Center. The Welcome Center Intern will assist with various summer assignments, including summer conferences, and New Student Orientation. Job duties may include assisting with check-ins and check-outs; assisting with presentations; assisting with setting-up and hosting of information tables; room assignments; creating signage; direct or indirect supervision of student paraprofessionals; and assisting the Manager – Welcome Center. The Welcome Center Intern may also work with student/parent orientation, thereby having the opportunity to meet and talk with partners and departments from all areas of the university. The Welcome Center Intern is a vital member of the residence hall community and the University Student Housing Staff. The intern is expected to work with the Associate Director for Client Relations, Marketing, and Information Technology; Manager – Welcome Center; Housing Advisors, Student Ambassadors; Student Housing Coordinators; and visiting guests. The intern will attend departmental staff meetings and may have the opportunity to attend other meetings as available. Additionally, the intern may serve on departmental committees, task forces, or assist with collateral assignments to create and implement intentional experiences that support the department and university mission (assigned by supervisory personnel). Learn more about our ACUHO-I Internships here. About Our Department Go TTU BenefitsGo Live in LubbockGo University Student Housing Like University Student Housing on FacebookLike University Student Housing on Facebook Follow University Student Housing on twitterFollow University Student Housing on twitter Subscribe to University Student Housing on YouTubeSubscribe to University Student Housing on YouTube Follow University Student Housing on FlickrFollow University Student Housing on Flickr Follow University Student Housing on PinterestFollow University Student Housing on Pinterest Follow University Student Housing on InstagramFollow University Student Housing on Instagram Address Wiggins Complex, 3211 18th St., Box 41141, Lubbock, TX 79409 Phone (806) 742-2661 | Fax: (806) 742-2696 Email housing@ttu.edu Texas Tech University 2500 Broadway Lubbock, Texas 79409 806.742.2011 Follow Texas Tech University Like Texas Tech University on FacebookLike Texas Tech University on Facebook Follow Texas Tech University on twitterFollow Texas Tech University on twitter Check in with Texas Tech University on FourSquareCheck in with Texas Tech University on FourSquare Subscribe to Texas Tech University on YouTubeSubscribe to Texas Tech University on YouTube Follow Texas Tech University on FlickrFollow Texas Tech University on Flickr Follow Texas Tech University on InstagramFollow Texas Tech University on Instagram Connect with Texas Tech University on LinkedInConnect with Texas Tech University on LinkedIn Contact Texas Tech UniversityContact Texas Tech University Contact Us Campus Map Jobs @ TTU Emergency Communication Center General Policy Information Public Access to Course Info Energy Management Mental Health Resources Title IX Fraud and Misconduct Hotline Online Institutional Resumes TTU System TTU Health Sciences Center TTUHSC El Paso Angelo State University Midwestern State University Statewide Search State of Texas Texas Homeland Security Texas Veterans Portal Texas CREWS SAO Fraud Reporting Open Records Requests © 2022 Texas Tech UniversityMay 13, 2022 1:39 PM University Student Housing Housing Sign Up Information University Student Housing Housing Sign Up Information Back Sign Up Information University Student Housing Housing Sign Up Information Sign Up Information Back Sign up for Housing Contract Information Off Campus Eligibility Red Raider Express Pass Residence Hall Selection Guide Room Availability Report Prospective Students University Student Housing Prospective Students Back Residence Hall Information University Student Housing Prospective Students Residence Hall Information Back Residence Hall Selection Guide Virtual Brochure Off Campus Eligibility Flex Housing Move In/ Move Out Red Raider Express Pass Room Change Housing Rates University Student Housing Prospective Students Housing Rates Back Housing Rates Rate Calculator Deposit and Billing Information About TTU University Student Housing Prospective Students About TTU Back Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Spirit & Traditions All Student Organizations Student Recreation Current Residents University Student Housing Current Residents Back My Housing University Student Housing Current Residents My Housing Back Hall Addresses and Mailing information FixIT Maintenance Request View Roommate and Dining Plan Move In/ Move Out Holiday Break Information Room Change Hospitality Services University Student Housing Current Residents Hospitality Services Back University ID Change Dining Plan Get Involved University Student Housing Current Residents Get Involved Back Student Organizations Social Justice Advocates Residence Hall Association Events University Student Housing Current Residents Events Back Carol of Lights® Professing Excellence Safe Treat Tunnel of Awareness End of the Year Banquet MLK Celebration Student Services University Student Housing Current Residents Student Services Back Academic Improvement Plan Housing Scholarships Residential Tutoring About Us University Student Housing About Us Back Leadership Team University Student Housing About Us Leadership Team Back Staff Directory Housing Areas University Student Housing About Us Housing Areas Back Administration and Business Services Facilities Services Residence Life Work for Housing Services and Resources University Student Housing About Us Services and Resources Back Conference Services Marketing Request Form Solicitation Form IT Helpdesk Additional Resources TTU HomeDirectory Raiderlink A-Z Index