We use cookies to make your website experience better. To learn about how we keep your information safe, view our Privacy Policy. Accept Safer Return to Campus Masks Strongly Recommended. Notification of Potential Workplace Exposure. Skip To Main Content Popular Searches × Cal Poly Pomona 2022 Campus Safety Plan Availability & Location of Law Enformacement Personnel and Methods for Summoning Assistance Availability and Location of Law Enforcement Assistance The Cal Poly Pomona (CPP) University Police Department (UPD) is located at 3801 W. Temple Ave. Building 109, Pomona, California and provides police services 24 hours a day to our community. UPD dispatch can be reached directly 24 hours a day by phone at (909) 869-3070, or dial 911 from any campus landline or blue light emergency call station. Enforcement and Arrest Authority UPD officers possess the same authority under the law, including arrest authority, as municipal and county law enforcement officers per Penal Code section 830.2. Further, the California State University Trustees have vested UPD officers with the authority and responsibility to enforce all applicable local and state laws on University property and those areas immediately contiguous to the Cal Poly Pomona campus in accordance with Education Code section 89560. Crime Reporting The campus community is strongly encouraged to report all known or suspected criminal activity on campus to the UPD as soon as possible. When calling UPD always: Give your name, telephone number, and location. Give clear and accurate information. Be prepared to provide suspect description, vehicle description, and direction of travel. Do not hang up! Follow the dispatcher’s instructions and stay on the line if it is safe to do so. The campus community is strongly encouraged to report all known or suspected criminal activity on campus to the UPD as soon as possible. When calling UPD always: Give your name, telephone number, and location. Give clear and accurate information. Be prepared to provide suspect description, vehicle description, and direction of travel. Do not hang up! Follow the dispatcher’s instructions and stay on the line if it is safe to do so. By Telephone Contact Emergency: Dial 9-1-1 (Police, Fire, Medical) Note: If using a cell phone on campus in an emergency, dial (909) 869-3070. 9-1-1 calls from cell phones are routed to CHP. We strongly encourage campus community members to program this number into cell phones to minimize response time. Non-Emergency After Hours: (909) 869-3070 Anonymous Crime Tips: (909) 869-3399 In Person Contact Building 109 is located on the corner of Cypress Lane and Oak Lane adjacent to Parking Structure 1. Other Safety/Emergency Services include: Emergency Call Stations Emergency Code Blue Phones are located throughout the campus, including in parking lots and parking structures. Code Blue Phones are equipped with an emergency button activation to directly contact the UPD dispatcher for any emergency need 24 hours a day. Safety Escort Service UPD Student Assistants provide Safety Escorts to or from your class or other campus location (including University Village) by request from Monday-Thursday after 6:00 p.m. To request a safety escort, call UPD dispatch at (909) 869-3070. For more information on the Safety Escort Program go to https://www.cpp.edu/police/programs-and-services/safety-escort-service.shtml Emergency Hotline In the event of a campus emergency, information and updates will be provided on the university’s Emergency Hotline at (866) 869-POLY (7659). The campus community is encouraged to add this number to their contact lists. Special Safeguards for Facilities or Activities Security of and Access to Campus Facilities UPD is responsible for providing a safe and secure environment, and for the protection of all on campus properties and facilities owned, operated, controlled, or administered by the University. UPD is responsible for controlling access to all University facilities and may revoke access per Penal Code section 626. To provide for the security of campus facilities, UPD enforces Educational Code section 89031 and campus Housing Policies. Most campus buildings and facilities are open to the campus community and the public during the day and evening hours when classes are in session. When the University is officially closed (e.g., observed holidays), buildings are locked and may only be accessed by faculty, staff, and students with proper authorization. All campus facilities have key and/or security card access. Facilities Management is responsible for key control and distribution. The Division of Information Technology (IT) manages alarm and card access control. Access to on-campus student housing facilities is restricted to residents, their approved/escorted guests and other approved campus community members. Housing security includes both key entry and card access. Housing manages the card access programs for student residence facilities, except for Sicomora Hall and Secoya Hall which utilize Bronco Cards and are managed by IT. Note: Access to campus and campus facilities may be limited and/or require additional procedures due to the COVID-19 pandemic. The Cal Poly Pomona campus remains open. All offices are open during regular business hours with most continuing to offer virtual/remote services as well. Before you come to campus, please be sure to complete the 3-step checklist: training, health screener and what you should do when you are on campus. Information for our community may be found on-line at https://www.cpp.edu/safety/safer-return/index.shtml, including checklist items required and the campus health and safety plan. Cal Poly Pomona utilizes video security cameras to deter crime, assist in identifying and investigating crime, and to aid in the apprehension and prosecution of offenders. Video cameras are located throughout the campus and may be monitored by UPD or accessed for real-time use. Security Considerations Used in Maintenance of Campus Facilities Security considerations are a priority in the maintenance of campus facilities. Campus facilities and grounds are designed and maintained to promote safety and prevent crime, and are inspected on a regular basis. Grounds staff keep vegetation controlled around lighting and along campus walkways and roadways on a regular schedule. UPD Student Assistants conduct Code Blue Phone checks once per semester. UPD also conducts preventative maintenance on the campus alarm and access system. Concepts of crime prevention through environmental design are considered for new construction, planning and improvements on campus. Facilities Management will respond to reports of potential safety and security hazards (e.g., broken windows, inoperable locks, lighting problems, downed trees/tree limbs). To report a potential hazard, contact Facilities Management during business hours at (909) 869-3030. After hours, contact UPD at (909) 869-3070. Fire Safety Most campus buildings, including student residential facilities, are protected by fire sprinklers and/or smoke and heat alarm systems. Facilities Management has a preventative maintenance program that includes fire alarm and system testing. Foundation and ASI buildings are also tested by contracted vendors. The Annual Fire Safety Report provides information regarding fire safety, fire safety systems and fire statistics in student residence facilities. The report may be accessed on-line at https://www.cpp.edu/housing/documents/fire_safety_report.pdf Student residents receive fire safety and evacuation information as part of their move-in process. Evacuation drills are conducted annually involving all University Housing Services and Foundation Housing Services/University Village (Housing). All Housing professional staff and student resident and community advisors receive training in evacuation policies and procedures. An annual mock evacuation drill is conducted with all Housing staff. An annual campus evacuation drill is scheduled in coordination with the Great California Shakeout. Special Event Safety Planning Preparation for large campus events typically involves the creation of Incident Action Plans according to the Standardized Emergency Management system and in collaboration with mutual aid agencies and contracted safety personnel. In alignment with county, state and CSU requirements and recommendations related to COVID-19, the campus best practices guidelines offer a baseline for safety when conducting any event or gathering in person, on or off campus. Event planners can require additional safety procedures at their events to better match the event location. The guidelines may be found on-line at https://www.cpp.edu/safer-return/events.shtml Actions in the Last 18 Months to Increase Safety Established a Safer Return Task Force to lead an ongoing comprehensive and coordinated pandemic response, and implementation of health orders, recommended protocols, safety measures, and strategies for a safe return to campus. Moved UPD to a community policing model to strengthen the lines of communication with students, staff and faculty and promote collaborative partnerships to enhance safety. Formed a UPD community relations team to increase engagement, safety education and awareness. Established a bike registration program to combat the issue of bike thefts on campus. Installed trauma kits in all police units and train all police officers in their Updated the campus Crisis Communications Plan. Conducted a crisis communications tabletop exercise with the President’s Cabinet, Strategic Communications, UPD and Emergency Management. Implemented 2-factor authentication for campus faculty, staff, and students, improved standard email identity and threat protections, and standardized data security awareness for all employees at onboarding and annually. Updated the BSC and BRIC Emergency Response Plans with COVID guidelines and conducted regular testing of the BRIC emergency door locking system. Enhanced the parking lot lighting at Kellogg West/Collins College. Changes in Safety Precautions During the Next 24 Months Increase UPD outreach, engagement, and crime prevention education and awareness programs. Revamp the campus Building Emergency Response Plan to include building-specific incident response information (e.g., exit routes, assembly, points of contact) and general response information. Conduct additional crisis communication training for Strategic Communications personnel and provide training for campus communicators. Continue to expand campus email threat protections and improve data security awareness training. Integrate the Foundation’s digital signage application with the campus emergency alert system so that alerts push to digital signage displays at Campus Center Marketplace, Centerpointe, and the Bookstore. Enhance the BSC Emergency Response Plan: All ASI/BSC staff to be certified in Basic CPR/AED/First Aid and BSC Operations staff to be certified in advanced CPR/AED/First Aid and Emergency O2. Revise Lost Minor protocol for the BSC and BRIC. Install safety equipment for the BSC: Emergency generator and battery back-up, additional AEDs for Games Room, and response kits with emergency O2. Records of On-Campus Crime California Education Code 67380(a)(1)(A) California State University campuses are required by California Education Code 67380(a)(1)(A) to compile records of all occurrences reported to campus police, campus security personnel, or campus safety authorities of, and arrests for, crimes that are committed on campus and that involve violence, hate violence, theft, destruction of property, illegal drugs, or alcohol intoxication and to make this information available within two business days if requested by students, prospective students, employees, or the media. If you wish to request crime information, please contact clery@cpp.edu View 2022 Campus Safety Plan PDF 3801 West Temple Avenue, Pomona, CA 91768 ©2021 California State Polytechnic University, Pomona All Rights Reserved About Cal Poly Pomona Feedback Privacy Accessibility Document Readers