Skip to main content MyUW Calendar Directories Libraries UW Medicine Maps UW News Helpful Links Computing/IT ISC/Workday Husky Card UW Bothell UW Tacoma UW Facebook UW Twitter University of Washington University of Washington Students Parents Faculty & Staff Alumni Quick Links Financial Aid Home Getting started Eligibility How need is determined Expected family contribution Net price calculator Student budgets Husky Promise Applying for aid Key dates and deadlines Application process Award process Maintain eligibility Summer quarter Types of aid Scholarships Grants Work Study Loans Childcare Assistance Program Veterans Benefits Emergency aid Emergency Food Assistance Other assistance Receiving aid Disbursement Appeals and special circumstances Request changes to your award Satisfactory academic progress Forms & resources Forms Consumer Information Glossary of Terms for Award Notifications Loan repayment Tax benefits Withdrawal and refund Financial aid code of conduct Money management Emergency Relief Fund Higher Education Emergency Relief Fund III Washington Emergency Relief Grant Higher Education Emergency Relief Fund II CARES Act FAQs Processing and Response Timelines Contact us My Financial Aid FAQs Menu Financial Aid Home Getting started Eligibility How need is determined Expected family contribution Net price calculator Student budgets Husky Promise Applying for aid Key dates and deadlines Application process Award process Maintain eligibility Summer quarter Types of aid Scholarships Grants Work Study Loans Childcare Assistance Program Veterans Benefits Emergency aid Emergency Food Assistance Other assistance Receiving aid Disbursement Appeals and special circumstances Request changes to your award Satisfactory academic progress Forms & resources Forms Consumer Information Glossary of Terms for Award Notifications Loan repayment Tax benefits Withdrawal and refund Financial aid code of conduct Money management Emergency Relief Fund Higher Education Emergency Relief Fund III Washington Emergency Relief Grant Higher Education Emergency Relief Fund II CARES Act FAQs Processing and Response Timelines Contact us My Financial Aid Home Student Financial Aid FAQs FAQs Home FAQs Verification of Non-filing Letter Topics Application Process Aid Offer Verification Process Submitting Forms/DocuSign Enrollment Loans Parent and Graduate PLUS Loans Receiving Your Aid Revising Your Aid Scholarships Summer Aid Application Process How do I apply for financial aid? All students are required to apply for financial aid every year. Start the process by completing the Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) and entering our school code of 003798. What is the priority date to apply for financial aid? The UW’s priority date for filing the FAFSA is January 15. Don’t wait until the last minute-file early! The UW’s school code is 003798. Is it too late to apply for aid for this year? No, you can still apply for aid, but keep in mind you should try to apply at least 4-6 weeks before the end of your enrollment for the year because we need sufficient time to complete the process before your enrollment ends. The Pell Grant program (for qualified undergraduates) and the government loan programs remain available throughout the year. You can start the application process at https://studentaid.gov Do I need to provide additional information now that I have completed the FAFSA? Our office will send you an email to let you know if documents are needed. You can also view the Document Tracking status on your Financial Aid Status in MyUW. Any requested documents may be submitted via online form, fax, U.S. Mail or dropped off in person to our office. Always include your UW student identification number (SID) and make sure all documents are signed. We are unable accept documents sent via email attachments. How will the Office of Student Financial Aid contact me? Our office will usually contact you through your UW e-mail account. Please check your UW e-mail frequently. If you forward your UW e-mail to a different address, please update the mail filters of your forwarding address to accept e-mails from “uw.edu.” I'm a graduate student, do I need to provide my parent(s)' information on my FAFSA? Normally a graduate student is not required to provide parent data on their FAFSA. However, if you are a professional student in the Medical, Dental or Pharmacy schools, then to be considered for the Health Professions Student Loan Program (HPSL) and Loans for Disadvantaged Students (LDS), you must complete the parent section of your FAFSA. Parent information is used only for consideration of HPSL and LDS funding, not for federal or institutional aid. My parents don't claim me on their taxes and I live on my own. Why am I not independent? In order to be considered independent for financial aid purposes you must meet one of the following criteria: You will be at least 24 years old by December 31 in the academic year. Married as of the date the FAFSA was completed Working on a Master’s degree or PhD Active duty military Veteran of the U.S. armed forces Have children who receive more than half of their support from you Orphan or ward of the court Emancipated minor in your state of legal residence In a legal guardianship in your state of legal residence Homeless or in danger of being homeless Documentation may be required to verify these criteria. It does not matter if you live with your parents, or whether or not they claim you on their taxes. What year FAFSA do I need to complete for the summer quarter? The FAFSA that you complete for the fall quarter is the same one that we will use to determine your summer quarter eligibility. Learn more about summer aid. You will also need to complete the Summer Application at MyUW Financial Aid Status. It is available beginning April 1st. Husky Promise is not part of summer term. Return to topics Aid Offer Where can I see my financial aid offer? You can check your Financial Aid Status on MyUW. You will be able to see what types of aid are offered as well as items that require your attention (holds, missing documentation, etc.) You can also accept/reject your aid in this section of your MyUW account. Be sure to go through the entire process of accepting or rejecting the individual different types of aid to ensure that your offer has been officially ‘accepted’ or ‘rejected’ and does not remain in the original ‘offer’ status. What is a preliminary award? Your award notice will inform you if your award is preliminary or final. If you see the indication ‘preliminary award’, then this means we need more information from you to confirm your eligibility for aid. You can also view the Document Tracking status on your Financial Aid Status in MyUW. Once we receive and process the necessary documentation, we will send you a final award notice that may vary from the original preliminary award. Please take into account that a preliminary award is subject to change and is an estimate of your eligibility. We cannot release aid to you until we have finalized your award. Although there is not a designated due date for the requested information, we can run out of funding in the school year. Please provide the necessary documents to us as soon as you can so we are able to finalize the best possible award package. How long does it take for you to review information I sent in for my preliminary award or request to revise my aid? For most of the year, we reply within 2-3 weeks, and will respond sooner if we can. During April through August we can take up to 4-6 weeks to respond. It may take longer to respond at certain times of the year, depending on your volume. We will make every effort to get your aid ready for you for autumn quarter if all of your information comes to us before September 1st. For information received after September 1st, we will try to complete the review before the tuition deadline for the quarter, but you may want to review information on the short term loan program to help with your expenses before your aid is ready. Because of the volume of students who want aid, it is important for you to apply early and respond to any requests for information as soon as possible. How do I know if I am eligible for work study? If you indicated that you are interested in work-study on your FAFSA and you meet the eligibility criteria, work-study will be listed as one of your awards on MyUW. Typically, work-study is limited and is offered to the neediest students first. I have been offered work study, what should I do next? If you have been offered work-study, there will be a link to the work-study jobs on your award notice. After reviewing available positions, contact potential employers to set up interviews or meetings. When you go to your job interview, you will need to take a Work-Study Referral form which you can get from the Work-Study Office in room 520 Schmitz Hall. How do I report scholarships and other educational resources, such as departmental funding, DVR, military benefits, etc.? If you have scholarships or resources in addition to your financial aid, you will need to report the scholarship or resource name and annual award amount in the Resources section of your award notice, or by contacting our office. If you report a scholarship through e-mail be sure to include your name, UW ID#, the name of the scholarship or resource, and the annual award amount. Does where I live make a difference in the amount of aid I receive? Yes, your room and board component of your budget is based on your living situation. If you live with your parent(s) or other relatives your room & board allowance is lower to reflect your lower housing costs where it is expected that you will not pay rent or pay a reduced amount. If you live on-campus or off-campus (apartment, house, fraternity/sorority), your housing allowance is greater due to the increased cost. It is important to let our office know if your living arrangements change during the school year and you are moving between your parent(s) or relative’s and on or off-campus housing. As the same costs are used for on and off-campus housing, you do not need to notify us if you move between these two categories such as between a dorm and an apartment. I am not a Washington resident. What kind of aid can I receive? From your FAFSA information, your award will list your eligibility for federal financial aid only. We are unable to offer state, or university grants to non-resident applicants. We recommend you visit Undergraduate Scholarships for information. We realize that for many non-resident students, federal loans may make up most or all of their financial aid offer from UW so, we encourage students and their families to take that into consideration in their decision to attend the university, particularly if finances are a factor in their selection of a college. My financial aid award is not enough to cover my expenses. What are my options? If your financial aid award is not enough to cover your expenses, you have several options. If your income or resources (or that of your parent(s)) has decreased significantly since you filed the FAFSA, then you can complete and submit a Revision Request for Change in Financial Situation for our office to review. You can also talk to one of our counselors to see if any adjustments can be made to your award. Loans, both need based (Subsidized Stafford) and non-need based (Unsubsidized Stafford, Parent PLUS, or Graduate PLUS) may be available. If you incur expenses during the school year that are not part of the standard student budget that we use to award financial aid, you may complete a Revision Request for Additional Expenses and submit it to our office. We will review your request to determine if these additional expenses are allowable. If we are able to approve the request, then we will determine if there is any additional financial aid that can be awarded. Oftentimes, additional expenses result in increased eligibility for student loans. Return to topics Verification Process What is Verification? You may be asked at any time to submit documents or other information to be used in the review of your application and determination of your aid eligibility. This is perfectly normal. Verification is a routine process where we need to collect information and certain documents from you to verify the information submitted on your financial aid application. We may ask for confirmation of your household size, income and tax documents, clarification of assets, etc. If your application is selected for review, our office will notify you via email. The email will have instructions on how to submit the requested information. Please respond to any request as soon as possible; review of your file may be delayed until all requested documents are submitted. The volume of material to be reviewed is substantial and we appreciate your patience during the review process. How do I access the Verification Worksheet? If your application has been selected for verification you will be able to find the links to the forms you need to complete in the email notification sent out by our office. You can also find our forms on this page. For the Verification Worksheets, you may also need to submit your tax documentation. Tax documents can be accessed via the IRS website. How do I submit the Verification Worksheet? Our office uses online forms via DocuSign. Forms are automatically submitted to our office when completing the form using DocuSign. Paper submissions are accepted and are equally as valid as electronic submissions. Send the completed form(s), along with any required attachments, to our office via postal mail, fax, or in person. Please see our FAQs about DocuSign, and how to submit forms, if you have any questions specific to the platform. How do I obtain my IRS Tax Return Transcript or Foreign Tax Return? An IRS Tax Return Transcript can be requested from the IRS using Form 4506-T with check box 6a, online at http://www.irs.gov/Individuals/Get-Transcript, or by calling the automated IRS transcript request line at 1.800.908.9946. For Foreign Tax Returns, please contact the tax authority in your country. How do I obtain a Verification of Non-filing Letter from the IRS or an equivalent letter, if from a foreign country? An IRS Verification of Non-filing Letter can be requested from the IRS by using Form 4506-T with box 7 checked. For an equivalent letter to the IRS Verification of Non-filing Letter, contact the relevant tax authority in your country. How do I complete verification if a victim of identity theft? Victims of identity theft who cannot get an IRS tax return transcript or use the IRS Data Retrieval Tool (DRT) submit a Tax Return DataBase View (TRDBV) transcript. You may call the IRS’s Identity Protection Specialized Unit (IPSU) at 1-800-908-4490. After the IPSU authenticates your identity, you may request that the IRS mail you the TRDBV transcript. Once you receive it, please submit a copy to our office, as well as a signed and dated statement indicating that they were the victims of tax-related identity theft and that the IRS is aware of it. If you cannot obtain the TRDBV, you may submit another official IRS transcript or equivalent document provided by the IRS if it includes all of the income and tax information required to be verified; please include in the signed statement that the tax filer first attempted to obtain a TRDBV. What if I (or my spouse) received a W-2 but I (or we) can’t find a copy of it? A W-2 can be obtained by contacting the employer or by contacting the IRS 1.800.829.1040. If you still cannot obtain the W-2(s) contact our office to speak with a counselor. I filed my tax return but my spouse did not file or vice versa, how do I report this on this form? You will have to choose one filing status on the form. For example, if you filed and your spouse did not file, you will choose the box that indicates you filed then attach your tax return and complete the rest of the form. Next, you will send the IRS Verification of Non-filing Letter and, if your spouse worked, any W-2 forms to our office via fax, postal mail, or in person. How do I know what to fill out on the form(s)? Please carefully read all instructions for each section of the forms. If a field has a red box, it is a required field and must be filled out. If a field has a gray box, complete it if it applies to you. If a numerical field doesn’t apply to you then enter “0”. Who has access to the student’s financial aid information? The Office of Student Financial Aid will have access as well as the student and anyone for whom the student has signed a Release of Information form. What if I don’t know how to answer a question on this form or I am having trouble uploading my documents, who should I contact? Please contact your campus financial aid office. What is the deadline to complete Verification? If you are selected for verification you will have a hold on your aid to prevent disbursement until all information is received, reviewed and any discrepancies in your information is resolved. If the discrepancies are not resolved before the end of your enrollment period for the academic year, your financial aid will be canceled. If you provide the needed information after this time, our office will determine if you qualify for a late disbursement of a Pell Grant under federal verification rules. Federal loans cannot be disbursed if your verification is completed after your enrollment ends. Generally, state and institutional aid will not be available for reinstatement. Please keep in mind that it takes time to review your documentation and submit as soon as possible before the end of your last quarter of the current academic year. Keep in mind a general guideline of submitting all documents a month before your last quarter of the current academic year ends. Return to topics Submitting Forms/DocuSign Do form(s) have to be submitted online? No, paper submissions are accepted and are equally as valid as the electronic submissions. If you’ve already started the DocuSign form, click the Print icon and print it. The printed form will show all the answers you’ve already completed. If you haven’t started the DocuSign form, paper forms are available on our website http://osfa.washington.edu/wp/forms-and-resources/forms/. Send the completed form(s), along with any required attachments, to our office via postal mail, fax or in person. I don’t have a computer, can I use another device (e.g. cellphone or tablet) to complete the Verification Worksheet? The Verification Worksheets can be filled out with any device, but it will be easiest on a laptop or tablet. You can use a public computer but be sure to log out after you’re finished. I’m having trouble accessing the form(s) on my computer. What should I do? Be sure you’re using a computer with one of the supported browsers. Internet Explorer (Windows Only) 8.0 or above – compatibility mode is supported only for 9.0 and above. Windows Edge Current Version Mozilla Firefox Current Version Safari (Mac OS only) 6.2 or above Google Chrome Current Version Mobile Signing: Apple iOS 7.0 or above Android 4.0 or above If you don’t have access to a supported browser, print the form using the Print icon and submit it on paper. How long do I have to complete the form(s) before my session times out? You will have 60 minutes before your session times out. How do I save the form(s) and how long will I have to access it so I can finish it later? Click Other Options/Finish Later. In-progress form(s) will expire after 120 days. How long will I be able to access my completed form(s) once it has been submitted? Submitted form(s) will expire after one year. Every time I click “Next” the form jumps around and I can’t figure out what I need to do. What should I do? If you skipped some fields while filling out the form, the “Next” button can seem random. Instead of clicking the “Next” button, try using your tab key. How do I submit my attachments? When submitting the form(s) online, click the paperclip “attachment” icon on the form(s). Where can I upload documents from? You can upload them only from the computer where you’re working. If you’ve saved them someplace else (like Dropbox or Google Drive), you’ll need to download the documents to your computer first, then upload them to DocuSign. I don’t have the required attachments ready to submit at this time. What should I do? We recommend that you submit everything together. If you are unable to provide your attachments at this time, you can save your form by clicking Other Actions/Finish Later then, once you have your attachments, return to your form and submit everything online. If necessary, you can submit the form online without the attachments and send them separately via postal mail, fax, or in person. The Verification Worksheet requires attachments, what attachment types can I upload? DocuSign supports the following file types: DOCUMENT .as, .asl, .asp, .doc, .docm, .docx, .dot, .dotm, .dotx, .htm, .html, .pdf, .pdx, .rtf, .txt, .wpd, .wps, .wpt DRAWING .emz, .svg, .svgz, .vdx, .vss, .vst IMAGE .bmp, .cdr, .dcx, .gif, .ico, .jpg, .jpeg, .pct, .pic, .png, .rgb, .sam, .tga, .tif, .tiff, .wpg PRESENTATION .dps, .dpt, .pot, .potx, .pps, .ppt, .pptm, .pptx SPREADSHEET .cvs, .et, .ett, .xls, .xlsn, .xlsx, .xlt Return to topics Enrollment How many credits are considered full-time for undergraduate students? Full time enrollment for undergraduate students is a minimum of 12 credits, including summer. Most aid programs require full-time enrollment (12 credits) for disbursement. However, there are funds available for students enrolled less than full time. You must contact our office if you will be enrolled less than full time so that we may adjust your award. How many credits are considered full-time for graduate students? For some Law, Medicine, Dental and Pharmacy students, full-time is 12 credits. For all other graduate students, full-time enrollment is 10 graduate level credits. Only the credits from your graduate-level courses are counted towards your enrollment. You may receive aid for undergraduate courses if your adviser lets us know in writing that the course is required for your degree. What happens if I want to go part-time instead of full-time? Part-time students (less than 12 credits for undergraduates, 5th year, and professional students, and less than 10 credits for graduate students) can receive financial aid. However, most of our institutional grants and scholarships, and Supplemental Educational Opportunity Grants (SEOG) require full-time status. Pell and Washington College Grants can be prorated for less than full-time attendance (Washington College Grant requires at least 3 credits and Pell Grant requires at least 1 credit). For example, you might receive half of your normal Pell Grant for 6-8 credits of enrollment. The Stafford Loan Programs, Parent PLUS loans and Graduate PLUS loans only require half-time attendance. Please check with the Work Study Office to find out about less than full-time eligibility for the Federal and State Work Study programs. If you want to attend less than full-time, you should talk to one of our counselors about adjusting your aid. In addition, if you have extenuating circumstances that are preventing you from attending full-time, you can file a Priority Appeal Form to see if you can keep any of your aid that normally requires full-time attendance. What happens if I drop a class? When you withdraw from a class, there can be implications during the quarter, at the end of the quarter, and at the end of the academic year. If you have aid for the quarter you have not yet received, it may be canceled and your future aid eligibility may be affected due to undergraduate or graduate Satisfactory Academic Progress requirements. What happens if I withdraw from the quarter? If you withdraw during the quarter, four things may occur: Your eligibility for further aid may be canceled; You may have to repay aid you received for the quarter, depending on when you withdraw; Your tuition payment may be forfeited, depending on when you withdraw; You begin your grace period and/or repayment if you’ve borrowed any student loans (contact your lenders for more information). If you are contemplating withdrawing from the quarter or have withdrawn, be sure to review the Withdraw/Refund/Repayment information and contact one of our counselors if you have questions. What should I do if I will not attend a quarter? If you do not plan to enroll for a quarter or more, you must contact us so we can adjust your aid accordingly. If you do not attend and do not notify us prior to the start of that quarter, your aid is subject to cancellation for the rest of the academic year. Should you return after a quarter break and your aid was cancelled for non-enrollment, we may reinstate your award with available funds. We may be unable to reinstate your original award due to fund limitations. If you drop below half-time enrollment, you may lose your eligibility for certain types of aid at the end of the quarter (unless you received “less than half-time aid” for the specific number of credits that you passed). If you have student loans, your grace period for your loans will begin upon less than half-time enrollment. In addition, you may lose your eligibility for future quarters if at the end of the year you are short of the annual credit requirement. What is Satisfactory Academic Progress? When you receive aid you are responsible for completing a certain number of credits per quarter and per year as well as maintaining your grade point average at a minimum of 2.0. In addition, you need to finish your degree within a maximum number of years. Failure to meet the progress requirement can cause an interruption in financial aid eligibility or denial of further financial aid funding. It is important to be familiar with the Financial Aid Satisfactory Progress requirements. To learn about the Satisfactory Progress criteria, please refer to our Satisfactory Progress Policy for Undergraduates, or for Graduate and Professional Students. Can I receive aid for a second major or minor? You may receive aid if you are completing a double major or a minor. Please note that undergraduate students may be able to complete a second major or a minor within the maximum time frame period of 225 attempted credits. However, an extension of financial aid eligibility beyond the 225 attempted credits based solely on an interest in pursuing a second major or minor is not an approvable appeal. For more information about Maximum Time Frame, please refer to our Satisfactory Progress Policy for Undergraduates, or for Graduate and Professional Students. Along with the maximum time frame limits, certain aid programs also have aggregate maximums which will limit eligibility for aid funds, such as: 15 quarters of Washington College Grant, 12 quarters of Husky Promise eligibility, 600% Federal Pell Grant Limited Eligibility Units, Lifetime aggregate limits on Stafford Loans You may submit an appeal if you go beyond the maximum time frame. If it is approved, you aid will be extended to a specific quarter or maximum number of credits. For more information, refer to our Satisfactory Academic Progress Page. Return to topics Loans What is the difference between the Subsidized and the Unsubsidized Stafford Loans? The federal government pays the interest for the Subsidized Stafford Loan while you are in school. With the Unsubsidized Stafford Loan, the interest accrues while you are in school; you are responsible for paying the amount that accrues either while you are in school or when you enter repayment. See the Student Loan chart for more details. Subsidized Stafford loans are only available for undergraduates. I accepted my Stafford Loan(s) (and/or Grad PLUS Loan), what is the next step? If you have not done so already, go to https://studentaid.gov to sign your Master Promissory Note for the applicable type of loan. Allow 3 business days for our office to receive the promissory note electronically. For the Grad PLUS Loan, a credit check will be run once your loan is accepted and originated (sent to the Department of Education). If you are a first-time Stafford Loan and/or Graduate PLUS Loan borrower you will be required to complete Loan Entrance Counseling for each loan program. Entrance Loan Counseling may be completed at www.studentloans.gov. How many credits do I need to take to receive loans? You must be enrolled in at least half-time credits to receive Stafford Loans, Graduate PLUS Loans and Parent PLUS Loans. Half time for undergraduate and graduate professional students is at least 6 credits, and half time for other graduate programs is at least 5 graduate level credits. How do I return a loan amount or a loan check that I no longer want? You may return any portion of loan proceeds that you received but do not want to keep. To do so, you will need to work with a Counselor in our office. To return a loan amount or loan check, please contact our office. Return to topics Parent and Graduate PLUS Loans We did the FAFSA and accepted our Parent PLUS Loan, what is the next step? Your parent will need to go to https://studentaid.gov and log-in using their own name, SSN, DOB and their own FSA Id. Next, they must click on “Request Direct Plus Loan”, and then “Parent PLUS”. Complete the 4 step application process. For more detailed information regarding the Parent Loan request process, click here for a checklist that you can print out. Why has my Parent PLUS Loan not disbursed? Frequent reasons why a Parent PLUS Loan does not disburse: The Master Promissory Note has not been completed The online PLUS Application has not been completed The parent credit was not approved, or an endorser has not completed their portion of the loan process If the loan was endorsed, the parent needs to complete PLUS counseling. You are not enrolled in at least half-time credits If all of these steps have been completed then contact our office for assistance. Why has my Graduate PLUS Loan not disbursed? Frequent reasons why a Graduate PLUS Loan does not disburse: The Master Promissory Note has not been completed Your credit was not approved, or an endorser has not completed their portion of the loan process If you obtained an endorser, your endorser hasn’t completed PLUS counseling. You are not enrolled in at least half-time graduate level credits The Entrance Counseling was not completed for a new borrower If all of these steps have been completed then contact our office for assistance. My parents' PLUS Loan or my GPLUS Loan credit was denied, why? A credit check is performed by the Department of Education for the Parent PLUS and the Graduate PLUS Loans. The school receives an indicator representing whether the credit was approved or denied. The school is not provided any further details. To find out why your credit check was not approved, please contact Direct Loans at 1-800-557-7394. If the credit check is denied for the Parent PLUS Loan, what should we do? Your parent will be given options by Direct Loans when they learn that their credit is denied. They may pursue an endorser or co-signer for the loan. Or, they may work to resolve the credit issue which caused the denied credit check. In any case, your parents will be sent further information from Direct Loans about their options. If your parent cannot pursue these options, you should contact our office to see if there are other options available. Where do I find the PLUS/GPLUS Loan Reference Number for a co-signer/endorser in the event my credit is denied? The Loan Reference number is not always necessary anymore, but is an option for endorsing a loan. At https://studentaid.gov an endorser can complete the process using the borrower’s last name. If you choose to obtain an endorser, the endorser may complete the endorser addendum at https://studentaid.gov web site. To complete the endorser addendum online, the endorser will need the borrower’s last name, or the Loan Reference Number (if you completed a Direct PLUS Loan Request) or Loan/Award Identification Number and a Federal Student Aid FSA Id. If you are unable to complete this process on-line, please call 1-800-557-7394. Return to topics Receiving Your Aid When/how is aid disbursed? Certain conditions must be met in order to allow funds to disburse. You must have satisfied all of the paperwork needed, all corresponding holds must be removed, and you must be enrolled for the number of credits your aid is set up for. You need to register for full time credits if your aid is awarded to you as a full time student (12 credits for undergraduates, 5th years and professional students, or 10 credits for graduate students). We begin disbursing aid a few days before the start of each quarter. If you have signed up for direct deposit, and all of the above criteria has been met, funds should arrive in your bank account by the first day of the quarter. Please bear in mind that it takes approximately 2-3 business days for the direct deposit to arrive in your personal bank account after aid has disbursed to your student account to pay tuition and fees. We have the current quarter’s disbursement dates and other details available if you would like to read more. When will I receive my financial aid? Your grants and loans will come in about two business days before the start of each quarter and pay toward your tuition and fees (generally, your dorm too, if you are in a dorm and you requested on your dorm forms that you want financial aid to pay). After it pays, and if there is an amount left over it will go to your bank account in two to three business days (if you signed up for direct deposit) or a check will be mailed to you. If I pay for my tuition before my aid is applied to my account, how will I be reimbursed? If you have signed up for direct deposit, the refund will be send to your bank account in 2-3 business days. If you are not signed up for direct deposit, a refund check will be mailed to your local address. Why hasn't my financial aid disbursed/paid? Here are the most common reasons for aid not disbursing: You are not full time. (12 or more credits for undergraduates, 10 or more credits for graduates) You received private aid that was not reported to the Office of Student Financial Aid. You did not meet Satisfactory Academic progress (See links: Undergraduate | Graduate) Loans: If your loans have not disbursed it may be the above reasons or you may not have completed the required forms or entrance counseling for the loan programs. MyUW shows a hold on my account, what does that mean? Holds prevent aid from disbursing to you for a variety of reasons. Usually, holds are placed because we are missing requested documentation, or you may not have completed enough credits in the previous quarter or prior academic year. There is information about the type of holds on your MyUW account under financial aid status and you are welcome to contact us with any remaining questions about how to resolve the hold(s) on your aid. It is also important to continually check your UW email, as we will also notify you there in regards to the paperwork we need from you. My housing charges were on my account but why does HFS say that I still have a balance? Your housing charges were placed on your account to capture the portion of the aid that was left over after your tuition charges were paid. However, that amount did not cover your full housing balance. You will need to contact Housing and Food Services at 206-543-4059 to find out the remaining balance and to make the appropriate arrangements to pay it. I'm in a PCE program, my account balance says zero but I received a notice saying I owe money. Why? Student Fiscal Services and Professional & Continuing Education use different accounting systems. You must confirm that both show a -0- balance for the quarter. For more information about PCE’s payment options, contact them at 206-685-8936 or review “Fees, Aid & Payment”. It says my aid has disbursed but I don't see it in my bank account. For those students signed up for direct deposit, the direct deposit process takes 2-3 business days. Once you see your financial aid disbursed to your student account in MyUW, it will take an additional 2-3 business days to appear in your personal bank account. You must be signed up with an open and valid bank account to have funds direct deposit to your personal bank account. Otherwise, a check will be mailed to you from Student Fiscal Services. For more information about the disbursement process, see How to Receive Your Financial Aid. Return to topics Revising Your Aid My financial aid award is not enough to cover my expenses. What are my options? If your financial aid award is not enough to cover your expenses, you have several options. If your income or resources (or that of your parent(s)) has decreased significantly since you filed the FAFSA, then you can complete and submit a Revision Request for Change in Financial Situation for our office to review. You can also talk to one of our counselors to see if any adjustments can be made to your award. Loans, both need based (Subsidized Stafford) and non-need based (Unsubsidized Stafford, Parent PLUS, or Graduate PLUS) may be available. If you incur expenses during the school year that are not part of the standard student budget that we use to award financial aid, you may complete a Revision Request for Additional Expenses and submit it to our office. We will review your request to determine if these additional expenses are allowable. If we are able to approve the request, then we will determine if there is any additional financial aid that can be awarded. Oftentimes, additional expenses result in increased eligibility for student loans What if our circumstances have changed financially? The standard calculation from the FAFSA uses the prior calendar year income and resources. If your parent of record/stepparent has had a permanent change resulting in a substantial decrease in expected income, complete the Revision Request for Change in Financial Situation – Parent. Also complete that form if the decrease is due to a reduction or termination in child support received, or the loss of other resource(s). We know that many families have suffered financial losses due to COVID-19 pandemic, please use the Change in Financial Situation COVID-19 Impact – Parent form to report your parent’s change in circumstances. What is a computer loan, and how do I apply for a computer loan? We do not have a specific computer loan program. However, we may be able to offer you student loan funds to assist toward the purchase of a computer, provided the computer will be used for educational purposes. We encourage you to think carefully before deciding to purchase a computer. Documentation of costs must be included with your Revision Request for Additional Expenses. It is possible that you may have received the maximum loan amounts for the current year and additional loan funds may not be available. Computer labs are available on campus and we encourage you to use these facilities instead of borrowing to purchase a computer. The UW Computer Labs are maintained and upgraded with software to meet most students’ needs including access to the Internet. The computer you buy may become obsolete within a few years, so you may want to delay your purchase as long as possible to avoid expensive upgrade or replacement costs. Usually, financial aid funds for a computer purchase are only approved once during your academic career at the UW. The maximum amount that can be approved is $2,200. You may submit revisions for computer repairs and necessary upgrades as defined under the University’s published recommendations for an adequate system. Printers, software, and accessories can also be included if the total computer equipment costs do not exceed the $2,200 limit. Return to topics Scholarships I received grants and scholarships from the UW, do I report this on my FAFSA/WASFA? You only report taxable student grants and scholarships reported to the IRS in your adjusted gross income on your FAFSA/WASFA. This includes AmeriCorps benefits (awards, living allowances, and interest accrual payments), as well as grant and scholarship portions of fellowships and assistantships. Please note this link regarding whether you should report grants and scholarship as income on tax returns: How do I apply for scholarships? For consideration of scholarships through the UW Financial Aid Office, we first recommend that you submit your Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) or WASFA before the priority date of January 15th, each year. The Financial Aid Office awards various scholarships to students based on financial need. In addition, many academic departments plus Honors and Washington NASA Space Grant offer scholarships to students. Please see the Financial Aid website for more information. Also, please take a look at the Office of Merit Scholarships, Fellowships & Awards for additional scholarship opportunities. I have a scholarship that hasn't paid to my account. Who do I contact? First, confirm with the organization that presented you with the scholarship that the funds have indeed been sent to the University or if they’re missing something from you such as a certification of enrollment (provided by the Office of the Registrar.) If the check has already been mailed, contact Student Fiscal Services. Return to topics Summer Aid How do I apply for Summer aid? To apply for aid during Summer Quarter you will need to complete the appropriate FAFSA. Summer is the first quarter in the academic year. The FAFSA that you complete for the Fall Quarter is the same one that we will use to determine your Summer Quarter eligibility. You will also need to complete the Summer Application at MyUW Financial Aid Status. It is available beginning April 1st. Any aid offered for Summer will be based on full-time enrollment (at least 12 credits for undergraduates and professional, and at least 10 credits for graduate students). If you will not be attending full-time, please contact our office to discuss your eligibility. We try to award Summer the same as any other quarter as much as possible given limited funding. Husky Promise is not part of Summer Quarter. What if I go part time Summer? Any aid offered for Summer will be based on full-time enrollment (at least 12 credits for undergraduates and professional, and at least 10 credits for graduate students). If you will not be attending full-time, please contact our office to discuss your eligibility. Return to topics Home FAQs Verification of Non-filing Letter COVID-19 Financial Aid FAQs CARES Act FAQs Facts and Resources Contact us Send us a message Visit Contact us for office location, directions and mailing address. Federal School Code Our Title IV federal school code is 003798. This code is used for Seattle, Bothell and Tacoma campuses. About us Our mission is to provide educational access and opportunity for all students. We promote participation in higher education by providing programs of assistance to help bridge the gap between the cost of attending the University and the family’s own resources. We believe students from all economic backgrounds should have the opportunity to attend the University of Washington. Finances should not be a barrier to getting a world-class education. University of Washington Be boundless Connect with us: Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Pinterest Accessibility Contact Us Jobs Campus Safety My UW Rules Docket Privacy Terms Newsletter © 2022 University of Washington | Seattle, WA