Skip to main content Temple University Explore Temple’s Schools and Colleges Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Support Temple Temple University Search Site Search Full Menu Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees President History & Traditions Temple Health News & Media Offices Public Information Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Development Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Libraries Communication for Development and Social Change MS You are here Home Academics Degrees and Programs Communication for Development and Social Change MS Apply Request More Info Communication for Development and Social Change MS Admissions Careers & Opportunities Required Courses Research & Facilities Scholarship & Financial Aid Master of Science in Communication for Development and Social Change Gain the skills to effectively utilize digital and traditional communications to promote pro-social change in the 21st century with the Master of Science in Communication for Development and Social Change in the Lew Klein College of Media and Communication at Temple University. This 30-credit interdisciplinary master’s program is designed to prepare students to address current issues through social and behavioral change in a variety of spaces—from local communities to government spaces to civil society organizations. In the program, you will acquire an in-depth understanding of the different methodologies needed to communicate problems and facilitate change within communities all over the world, including exploring strategic communication and project management theories; researching development communication issues; leveraging dynamic dialogue methods and media technologies; designing and implementing various campaigns; and evaluating projects and measuring their effectiveness. Students in the Communication for Development and Social Change program have the opportunity to design their curriculum based on their individual interests and career goals. Areas of specialization in the program include, but are not limited to community development; conflict, peace and human rights; media development and advocacy; policy, planning and governance; public health; and sustainability and the environment. What sets apart our Master of Science in Communication for Development and Social Change? An interdisciplinary, customizable curriculum: The interdisciplinary nature of the program allows students to learn from diverse faculty from across the college, exposing them to various perspectives and giving them access to an array of companies, organizations and professionals to get them started in a career in their chosen field. A flexible program for professionals: Our program can be completed on a full-time or part-time basis. While most students are full time and aim to complete the program in one year, working professionals have the option to space out their courses by enrolling part time. A unique learning opportunity: Temple’s Communication for Development and Social Change program is one of only two of its kind in the country and it is the only one dedicated to upskilling in applied communication for social change. With our program, you gain a unique education at a leading research institution—giving students specialized knowledge and an invaluable experience. Classes & Curriculum Classes for the Master of Science in Communication for Development and Social Change are held on Main Campus. Although designed for full-time students to complete in one year, part-time students can take up to four years to complete. The 30-credit program includes 18 credits of required core coursework, nine credits in a specialization and three credits of capstone field experience. Some of the major courses include Communication for Social Change Project Design; Research Approaches in Communication and Social Change; and Seminar in Media, Communication and Development. Learn more about program requirements. Related Graduate Degrees Communication Management MS Conflict and Communication MS Related Graduate Certificates Conflict Management and Dispute Resolution Public Relations Strategic Communication and Cross-Cultural Leadership Tuition & Fees In keeping with Temple’s commitment to access and affordability, this Master of Science offers a competitive level of tuition with multiple opportunities for financial support. Tuition rates are set annually by the university and are affected by multiple factors, including program degree level (undergraduate or graduate), course load (full- or part-time), in-state or out-of-state residency, and more. These tuition costs apply to the 2021–2022 academic year. Pennsylvania resident: $1,078.00 per credit Out-of-state: $1,441.00 per credit Learn more about our tuition and fees. Our Advisors Tom Jacobson, a professor in the Lew Klein College of Media and Communication, is the academic advisor for this program. Email: tlj@temple.edu Phone: 215-204-8980 Program Contact For more information about the Master of Science in Communication for Development and Social Change, please contact Kaitlin Fitzsimmons Pierce, associate director of the graduate office. Email: kaitlin.pierce@temple.edu Phone: 215-204-8560 Tom Jacobson, professor in the Lew Klein College of Media and Communication. Email: tlj@temple.edu Phone: 215-204-8980 Student Clubs & Organizations Supplement your Communication for Development and Social Change MS coursework and enhance your graduate education experience through student clubs and organizations. You’ll meet and network with other like-minded students, gain invaluable knowledge and skills, and become involved with a community that helps you bring your personal and professional goals to fruition. The Communication for Development and Social Change Club is an example of a club that can help you excel as a Communication for Development and Social Change student. They hone the skills gained from the degree program to promote equity, justice and stability both nationally and internationally from all career sectors. Students in this club are dedicated to continually adapt, improve and learn as things change and empower those around them to do the same. Learn more about student clubs and organizations available to Klein students. Study Away Take on new challenges, immerse yourself in developing communities and facilitate social change in an array of settings in the U.S. or around the world, through the Communication for Development and Social Change MS’s Global Opportunities programs. Our Global Opportunities programs create leaders in media and communication by providing opportunities to study and work while experiencing life in influential urban centers throughout the world. You have the option of studying or interning in more than 20 destinations in the U.S. and around the world, including Costa Rica, India, South Africa and more. These study away programs are designed to not only enhance your marketability in the global workplace, but also to increase your cultural capital and support your personal growth. Learn more about study away programs with the Lew Klein College of Media and Communication. Accreditation Temple University’s departments and programs are accredited by the Middle States Commission on Higher Education. CO-CDSC-MS Additional Program Information School/College Site View Program Details Go back to AcademicsMore in Communication for Development and Social Change MS Admissions Careers & Opportunities Required Courses Research & Facilities Scholarship & Financial Aid Apply Request More Info Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Calendar Policies Social Media TUportal TUmail Accessibility Careers at Temple Safety & Emergency Information Ethics & Compliance Privacy Statement Professional Licensure Disclosures Follow Temple University Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community. Apply Request More Info