skip to main content Community Foundation Leadership Contact Us Employment Faculty/Staff (843) 347-3186 Quicklinks Academic Calendar Admissions Bookstore Campus Locations Class Schedule College Catalog Conference Center Counseling Services COVID-19 Information Dual Enrollment/PACE Financial Aid Graduation Application Human Resources Inclusion & Diversity Library Office of Career Services Outlook Offsite Email Access Policies, Practices & Procedures Procurement Public Safety Residency Social Media Directory Student Information Center Testing Center Transcripts Tuition and Fees Tutoring/SSTC Veterans Benefits Search Close Search Search MenuHorry-Georgetown Technical College Apply Online Request Info Visit Campus Close Menu (843) 347-3186 Search Close Search Search Admissions Admissions Seeking admission to Horry-Georgetown Technical College? With more than 70 programs of study, flexible class options, and three convenient campus locations in Myrtle Beach, Conway, and Georgetown, we think you’ll like what you find. Tuition is less than half that of a four-year public college, and classes transfer. Come see what HGTC has to offer! APPLY NOW 6 Easy Steps to Enroll College Catalog High School Programs Paying for College Request Information Student Information Center - TECH Central University Transfer College Credit through Prior Learning Contact Us Admissions Academics Academics Horry-Georgetown Technical College offers educational programs for nearly every career interest, from Business and Health Science to Natural Resources and Information Technology. Whether you know exactly where you’re headed in life or you’re still searching for the right career path, HGTC has more than 70 degrees, diplomas, and certificates that will help you to succeed! Academic Departments Academic Programs Academic Advising Academic Calendars Career Counseling College Catalog Class Schedules High School Students Library Online Learning University Transfer College Credit through Prior Learning Academics About Us About Us Horry-Georgetown Technical College (HGTC) is a two-year community/technical college that offers more than 70 associate degree, diploma, and certificate programs for students who are either seeking quick entry into the workforce or desiring to transfer to a senior institution to pursue a bachelor's degree. HGTC offers three convenient campus locations in South Carolina, including Myrtle Beach, Conway and Georgetown. College Governing Board Campus Locations Employment Fast Facts about HGTC Financial Transparency Foundation Inclusion & Diversity Public Safety Policies & Procedures President's Message Mission, Vision, and Values News Center Contact Us About Us Current Students Current Students As a student at Horry-Georgetown Technical College, you have access to powerful tools and valuable information. Free tutoring and writing assistance, help with technical issues, advisement on curriculum choices, personal and career counseling, and career placement assistance are all available to students currently enrolled at HGTC. Accessibility and Disability Services Bookstore Campus Happenings Counseling Services Office of Career Services EPIC Student Online Lab Forms Graduation HGTC Pantry Library Registrar Student Engagement Student Information Center - TECH Central Social Media Testing Center Tutoring Services/SSTC Where to Eat Current Students Future Students Future Students The world is a different place than it was when Horry-Georgetown Technical College was founded in 1966. Nevertheless, the college remains as focused today on providing an up-to-date education for our students as we were decades ago. HGTC was founded on a commitment to prepare people for jobs, sustain a high job-placement rate, and facilitate university transfers. Apply Now Admissions Campus Locations Dual Enrollment/PACE Pay for College Take a Campus Tour Student Services Testing Center Veterans Resources Virtual Tour Contact Us Future Students WORKFORCE DEVELOPMENT WORKFORCE DEVELOPMENT Whether you want to learn new skills or enhance skills for a career, keep current in your field, get needed continuing education units (CEUs) to maintain your certification, or just want to learn for the pleasure of personal enrichment, we have something for you. HGTC also offers customized training for your business. Search for Classes Online Learning Registration Information Economic Development Quick Jobs Ready SC Request Information Scholarship Information Work Ready Communities Workforce Development Community Foundation Leadership Contact Us Employment Faculty/Staff Tuition Free Till '23! All current, returning, visiting, and new students are eligible to take summer, and fall classes for free! Learn More Earn Your Degree, Tuition Free! Right now, all students are eligible to take classes for free through the end of the year! Register for classes early to lock in your schedule! Learn More Tuition Free at HGTC! HGTC offers so many different career paths with so many different ways to make it work specifically for you! Learn More Featured Programs Arts, Sciences, and University Transfer The Arts, Sciences, and University Transfer Department is designed for students planning to transfer to four-year programs and for those who wish to broaden their general knowledge. Culinary Arts Technology Become a part of the sea of change in the way Americans cook, eat, view, source, and use food. Explore diversified cuisines, cultures, and businesses in the multifaceted culinary and hospitality fields. Criminal Justice Technology Whether you want to focus on the fundamental concepts and principles associated with law enforcement, the courts, corrections, juvenile justice, or crime scene investigation, get started in the Criminal Justice field today! Golf & Sports Turf Management If you're interested in a career in this fast-growing industry, you should check out HGTC's Golf and Sports Turf Management associate degree program, the only associate degree program of its kind in South Carolina. Occupational Therapy Assistant Become a member of the vital field of Occupational therapy, which specializes in helping people regain the everyday skills necessary to live independent, productive, and meaningful lives. Teacher Education Early Care and Education professionals work in partnership with families to create a nurturing environment that is respectful of culture and rich in experiences to promote the optimal growth and development of each child. GET STARTED AT HGTC What type of student are you?6 easy steps to enrollWays to pay for collegePrograms from A-ZSemester InformationImportant DatesOnline Programs TECH STORIES & NEWS HGTC Celebrates Class of 2022 HGTC is proud to announce that more than 1,300 students received degrees, diplomas, or certificates this year, and nearly 600 of them marched at HGTC’s commencement ceremony. Police Pre-Academy Training for Newly Hired Officers HGTC is proud to announce that the College is offering the Police Pre-Academy Training Certificate for local law enforcement agencies as well as non-sponsored students. Chaine des Rotisseurs Raises Funds for HGTC Culinary Arts Culinary Arts students recently received support from the Chaine des Rotisseurs Society for a study abroad trip to Paris, France, when they organized a dinner at the Fowler Dining Room. Becky Hubbard Receives 2022 Woman on the Move Award HGTC is proud to announce that Becky Hubbard, Chair and Professor of Teacher Education, has been recognized by the SC Chapter of the American Association for Women in Community Colleges. Dental Hygiene Students Pass Clinical Board Exam HGTC is proud to announce that 100% of the senior dental hygiene students recently passed the clinical boards exam and will be graduating in May from HGTC’s Dental Hygiene Program. HGTC Students Win Carolinas Engineering Competition Civil Engineering Students competed in the American Society of Civil Engineers (ASCE) Carolinas Conference Symposium at the University of South Carolina April 7-10, 2022. Cybersecurity Team Wins Awards at Palmetto Cyber Defense Competition The HGTC Cybersecurity Team secured one of the top honors at the Palmetto Cyber Defense Competition (PCDC) held in North Charleston, SC April 9-10, 2022. Alpha Nu Sigma Chapter Receives International Awards HGTC's Alpha Nu Sigma Chapter Members and Advisors received International Awards at the Phi Theta Kappa Catalyst April 7-9, 2022 in Denver, Colorado. Honors Program Thriving for Honors Students HGTC is reporting record growth and renewed interest in the Honors Program as more students are enrolling in courses to complete an honors level education at the College. Harold Hawley Appointed to Serve on Advisory Committee to SC CHE Harold Hawley, HGTC VP for Finance and Administration, was recently appointed to serve on the Advisory Committee to the SC Commission on Higher Education. HGTC Celebrates South Carolina Technical College Week HGTC is excited to announce South Carolina Technical College Week, a spirit week celebration, March 21 through March 25. Alpha Nu Sigma Chapter Receives Awards HGTC Alpha Nu Sigma Chapter Members and Advisors received numerous awards at the Carolinas Regional Convention March 4 - 6, 2022 in Winston-Salem, North Carolina. HGTC Names SCTEA Educator of the Year Award Winners HGTC recognized three exceptional employees at the South Carolina Technical Education Association’s (SCTEA) Annual Conference in February. Culinary Student Awarded Tourism Scholarship HGTC is proud to announce that Abigail Estes is one of nine seniors from SC colleges and universities selected for the 2021 Tourism Student Awards for outstanding academic achievement. HGTC Gators Welcome CCU Chants for Teal Tuesdays HGTC is excited about a new partnership initiative with Coastal Carolina University. “Teal Tuesdays” started on the HGTC Conway Campus in February. HGTC Employees Honored for Statewide Innovation Awards HGTC nominated Becky Hubbard to represent the College for the A. Wade Martin Innovator of the Year for her innovation to develop the Teacher Education Associate in Applied Science degree program. Dental Student Awarded Scholarship HGTC is proud to announce that Allisha Hemingway, an HGTC dental student, received the first scholarship of 2022 presented by BrownGirlRDH helping to bridge the gap in minority hygienist in dentistry. HGTC Joins State Depository Network HGTC is proud to be the newest addition to the SC State Documents Depository system, who provides digital copies monthly and physical documents quarterly to depository libraries. International Culinary Institute Earns Exemplary Status HGTC is proud to announce that the International Culinary Institute earned exemplary status for the Culinary Arts Program presented by the American Culinary Federation Education Foundation. Dr. Wilbanks Appointed to McLeod Loris Seacoast Hospital Board of Directors HGTC is proud to announce that Dr. Jennifer Wilbanks was recently appointed to the McLeod Loris Seacoast Hospital Board of Directors through December 31, 2024. HGTC Announces Crane Operator Program HGTC is pleased to announce the offering of the first Certified Crane Operator training course in partnership with Skyview Crane Training and Inspections. President's and Dean's Lists Announced Congratulations to all of the HGTC students who made the President's or Dean's List for the Fall 2021 Semester! HGTC Offering FREE Non-Diagnostic OB Ultrasound HGTC is pleased to announce that sonography students are currently training to perform obstetrics and gynecology (OB) ultrasound examinations in the clinical setting. Hope Wofford Awarded GSYP Ambassador of the Year HGTC is pleased to announce that Hope Wofford, the College’s Dual Enrollment Director, was recognized as the Ambassador of the Year at the Young Professional of the Year Celebration held on January 13. HGTC Workforce Development Named Outstanding Organization in 2021 HGTC announced today the Workforce Development program was named the Outstanding Organization of 2021 by SCAACE at the Celebrating our Success Luncheon. PACE Student Selected by FEMA for Youth Preparedness Council PACE student Peyton Granger is one of 11 new members joining the FEMA Youth Preparedness Council, a group of high schoolers interested in improving the preparedness of their communities. HGTC Reigning Champs for Carolinas Turf Bowl Championship HGTC students are the reigning champions of the 2021 Carolinas Turf Bowl Championship at the CGCSA Conference and Show held at the Myrtle Beach Convention Center. HGTC Partnership with HCS Benefits Students at ECHS HGTC is a proud partner with HCS through one of the best Early College High School programs in the nation and now eighth grade students in Horry County can learn about the opportunities available. HGTC Named Finalist for 2022 Bellwether Award HGTC is one of 30 technical/community colleges named as finalists in the first round of competition for the highly coveted 2022 Bellwether Award by the Bellwether College Consortium. HGTC Receives SC Workforce Scholarships for the Future The South Carolina Governor’s Office is providing SC Workforce Scholarships for the Future to cover tuition and fees for residents enrolled in high-demand career and technical training fields. Jump-start Your Career Today at HGTC HGTC offers programs for virtually every interest and career choice. We offer everything from business, information technology, skilled trades, and everything in between. Find out more today! Apply to HGTC More than 70 Programs Pay for College Why HGTC? Veterans Resources Connect: Facebook Instagram Linked In Pinterest Snapchat Twitter YouTube EVENTS VIEW EVENTS JUN 20 Fast Forward ll Classes Begin Register now and complete your classes in 8 weeks! Horry-Georgetown Technical College 2050 Highway 501 East Conway, South Carolina 29526 Email: admissions@hgtc.edu (843) 347-3186 About Us About HGTC Campus Locations Employment President News Center COVID-19 Information Academics Academic Programs A-Z Academic Calendars Class Schedules Course Offerings Library University Transfer Admissions Apply Now Pay For College Placement Testing Request Info Contact Us myHGTC Accessibility Non-Discrimination Statement Privacy Policy Website Disclaimer Contact Webmaster Contact Public Safety (843) 349-7806 © 2022, all rights reserved ©