Skip to main content Search form Search Information For Current Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Employers Contact Give About Search Menu Public Health Now News Events Publications Topics Student Voices Celebrating the Centennial Our Work to Address COVID-19 Columbia Public Health Magazine Academics Departments Degrees Course Directory Calendar Policy & Procedures Office of Education Research Featured Research Global Health Centers Programs Grants & Awards Corporate Partnerships People Our Faculty Current Students Friends and Supporters Partners Alumni Become a Student Meet Our Faculty Life & Community Degree Finder How to Apply Career Services More Information Master of Public Health Degree Programs Certificate Program Core Curriculum Search You are here Home Academics Departments Sociomedical Sciences Who We Are Winter Storm Update/Impacts to Campus and Services Last Updated 12:50pm Fri May 6 See Coronavirus Updates for information on campus protocols. Message from the Chair Faculty Students Message from the Chair Faculty Students Who We Are Robert E. Fullilove, Professor of Sociomedical Sciences The Department of Sociomedical Sciences is dedicated to addressing the social forces that influence health. We set public health challenges in broad social, historical, and political contexts in local, regional, and global arenas. Faculty engage in action-oriented research that not only deepens critical scholarly perspectives in the social and behavioral sciences but also advances the practice of public health, empowers communities, and informs public policy. Our faculty and students explore a wide array of public health issues: Aging Obesity Urban health Sexual health HIV/AIDS Cancer Homelessness Tobacco and drug use Healthcare access Mass incarceration Environmental health Adolescent health Menstrual health Mission Sociomedical Sciences is devoted to promoting equity and reducing health disparities. The department draws upon a diverse range of analytic methods and concepts from anthropology, behavioral science, ethics, history, political science, psychology, and sociology, as well as frameworks from health promotion and health communication to improve population health. History In 1968, Columbia University’s School of Public Health became the first in the country to offer a graduate degree in the social sciences with a focus on health, fulfilling the promise from earlier in the century and helping to return the field's attention to these important questions. The department’s inception was at a critical point in history – the year of JFK’s assassination, the Kerner Commission’s report on urban rioting, the rise of Richard Nixon, a man was put on the moon, and the stirring of the oncoming HIV epidemic. These events are very much alive in the work Sociomedical Sciences continues to grabble with and attests to how essential a diverse focus on equity and health disparities is for the future of public health. Headed by the trailblazer Dr. Jack Elinson, the department became ground zero for building new understandings of health and positioning issues within social and economic determinants of health. The Department celebrated its 50th anniversary in April 2019 as well as its accomplishments and advances in public health research and the advancement of health equity. More to Explore Friday 03June COVID-19: From Causes to ConsequencesMay 27 2022 A Q&A With Prof. Merlin ChowkwanyunMay 24 2022 Columbia University Honors School's Pandemic LeadershipMay 19 2022 Major Uptick Reported in Cannabis Vaping for All AdolescentsMay 19 2022 Sign up for Transmission Columnbia Mailman Connect with Us Public Health Now News Events Publications Topics Student Voices Academics Departments Degrees Course Directory Calendar Policy & Procedures Office of Education Research Featured Research Global Health Centers Programs Grants & Awards Corporate Partnerships People Our Faculty Current Students Friends and Supporters Partners Alumni Become a Student Meet Our Faculty Life & Community Degree Finder How to Apply Career Services More Information Columbia University Mailman School of Public Health | 722 West 168th St. NY, NY 10032 Site Map Privacy Columbia University Irving Medical Center Copyright © Columbia University 2019 Information For Current Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Employers