Skip to main content Skip to main navigation Baylor Magazine Menu Baylor>Alumni, Parents & Friends>Baylor Magazine>About Baylor Magazine About Baylor Magazine What is the magazine's mission? The mission of Baylor Magazine is to engage Alumni and friends in the advancement of the University. It does this by communicating to Baylor University constituencies the aspirations, needs and accomplishments of the University community in an attractive, compelling, engaging and persuasive manner. Its writing and artwork is of the highest professional standard, reflecting the quality embodied in Baylor's heritage, mission and vision. The magazine fosters a sense of active belonging and pride and compels its readership to action in support of University goals and objectives. How often is the magazine published? The magazine is published quarterly: Summer, Fall, Winter & Spring. Who receives the magazine? All alumni, senior and graduate students, University faculty and staff, parents of current students and peer institutions receive the magazine. We have a circulation of more than 160,000. What office at the University publishes the magazine? Baylor Magazine is published at no cost to recipients by the Division of Marketing and Communications. How do I make a change of address? If you are a Baylor alum, update your address through the Baylor Alumni Network. If you are not an alum, you can update your address here: magazine@baylor.edu. What kinds of stories do you look for? We want to bring our readers stories about the people, programs, hopes, accomplishments and challenges of Baylor University. We seek ideas for stories from a variety of sources. In our features, we address societal topics of general interest and the roles Baylor people play in those issues. Do you use freelance writers? Yes. You may submit a detailed written query to: Editor, Baylor Magazine One Bear Place #97420 Waco, Texas 76798 Can I place an advertisement in the magazine? Baylor Magazine offers paid advertising space as part of issues. If you are interested in advertising in Baylor Magazine, email magazine@baylor.edu. Baylor Magazine About Baylor Magazine Address Updates & Letters Advertising Feedback All Issues Staff Submit a Class Note or Obit Subscribe Alumni, Parents & Friends Alumni Directory Alumni Programs Baylor Alumni Baylor Alumni Connect Baylor Alumni Groups Show More General Information Colleges, Schools, Libraries & Research Admissions Administration Gateways For... About Baylor Anonymous Reporting Athletics Ask Baylor Bookstore Calendar Campus Map Directory Give Light Give to Baylor Illuminate Mental Health Resources News Pro Futuris Report It Search Social Media Title IX Baylor Libraries College of Arts & Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work George W. Truett Theological Seminary Graduate School Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Louise Herrington School of Nursing Research at Baylor University Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Engineering & Computer Science School of Music More Academics Undergraduate Admissions goBAYLOR Graduate Admissions Baylor Law School Admissions Social Work Graduate Programs George W. Truett Theological Seminary Admissions Online Graduate Professional Education Virtual Tour Visit Campus Annual Fire Safety and Security Notice Athletics Human Resources Marketing and Communications Office of General Counsel Office of the President Office of the Provost Operations, Finance & Administration Senior Administration Student Life University Advancement Baylor Alumni Faculty & Staff Online Graduate Professional Education Parents Prospective Faculty & Staff Prospective Students Students Copyright © Baylor® University. All rights reserved. Legal Disclosures. Baylor University • Waco, Texas 76798 • 1-800-229-5678 About Baylor Magazine Address Updates & Letters Advertising Feedback All Issues Staff Submit a Class Note or Obit Subscribe Alumni, Parents & Friends Alumni Directory Alumni Programs Baylor Alumni Baylor Alumni Connect Baylor Alumni Groups