Texas Tech University Directory Raiderlink A-Z Index Chemical Engineering Menu Search TTU Whitacre College of Engineering Department of Chemical Engineering Faculty Al Sacco Jr., Ph.D. Dean of the Edward E. Whitacre Jr. College of Engineering CHE Email: al.sacco-jr@ttu.edu Phone: 806.742.3451 Fax: 806.742.3493 Office: EC 100L Mailing Address: Texas Tech University Department of Chemical Engineering Box 43121 Lubbock, TX 79409−3121 Biography: Al Sacco Jr. is dean of the Edward E. Whitacre Jr. College of Engineering at Texas Tech University in Lubbock, Texas. Before coming to Texas Tech, he was the George A. Snell Distinguished Professor of Engineering and the director of the Center for Advanced Microgravity Materials Processing at Northeastern University. He flew as the payload specialist on the Space Shuttle Columbia on shuttle mission STS-73 in 1995. The 16-day mission aboard Columbia focused on materials science, biotechnology, combustion science and fluid mechanics contained within the pressurized Spacelab module. Born in Boston, Mass., Sacco completed a bachelor's degree in chemical engineering from Northeastern University in Boston, and a doctorate in chemical engineering from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. He then joined the faculty of the Worcester Polytechnic Institute, becoming a full professor and serving as the chair of the chemical engineering department for nine years before joining the faculty at Northeastern. He has consulted for numerous companies in the fields of catalysis, solid/gas contacting, zeolite synthesis and applications, and equipment design for space applications. Sacco has over 200 publications (including book chapters) in the areas of carbon filament initiation and growth, transition metal and acid catalyst and their deactivation, and zeolite synthesis, and he has been the principal investigator on more than $26 million in research grants. He has given over 500 invited presentations including commencement addresses, plenary and keynote addresses and is a Fellow of The American Institute of Chemical Engineers and full member of the International Academy of Astronautics. He has received numerous awards including four honorary doctorates (two in science, two in engineering), and was awarded the Nation's Space Flight Medal in 1995. In 2010 he received the 2010 Distinguished Chemist Award given by the New England Institute of Chemists, and in 2015 received the AIChE's 2015 Fuels and Petroleum Division Outstanding lifetime Achievement Award. Using his space flight experience, Sacco has given more than 300 presentations to approximately 48,000 K-12 teachers and their students as a means to motivate students to consider careers in science and engineering. Since joining Texas Tech in January 2011, he has raised more than three hundred million dollars for new buildings, renovations, scholarships and fellowships and has improved admission standards while seeing the college grow to more than 5,800 students in just 7 years. His program to require international experience for all undergraduates is the first of its kind for a state school in the nation. Research Interests Carbon nanotube initiation and growth Catalysis (transition metals and acid base) Crystallization (zeolite and zeo-type materials) Materials processing in low earth orbit Personal Information Curriculum Vitae Education Ph.D., Chemical Engineering, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, (1977) B.S., Chemical Engineering (with Honors), Northeastern University, (1973) Responsibilities Dean of the Edward E. Whitacre Jr. College of Engineering Chemical Engineering Address P.O. Box 43121, Lubbock, TX 79409−3121 Phone 806.742.3553 Email webmaster.coe@ttu.edu Texas Tech University 2500 Broadway Lubbock, Texas 79409 806.742.2011 Follow Texas Tech University Like Texas Tech University on FacebookLike Texas Tech University on Facebook Follow Texas Tech University on twitterFollow Texas Tech University on twitter Check in with Texas Tech University on FourSquareCheck in with Texas Tech University on FourSquare Subscribe to Texas Tech University on YouTubeSubscribe to Texas Tech University on YouTube Follow Texas Tech University on FlickrFollow Texas Tech University on Flickr Follow Texas Tech University on InstagramFollow Texas Tech University on Instagram Connect with Texas Tech University on LinkedInConnect with Texas Tech University on LinkedIn Contact Texas Tech UniversityContact Texas Tech University Contact Us Campus Map Jobs @ TTU Emergency Communication Center General Policy Information Public Access to Course Info Energy Management Mental Health Resources Title IX Fraud and Misconduct Hotline Online Institutional Resumes TTU System TTU Health Sciences Center TTUHSC El Paso Angelo State University Midwestern State University Statewide Search State of Texas Texas Homeland Security Texas Veterans Portal Texas CREWS SAO Fraud Reporting Open Records Requests © 2022 Texas Tech UniversityJul 8, 2021 11:13 AM Chemical Engineering About ChE Chemical Engineering Back Department Chemical Engineering Back Overview Chair's Welcome Strategic Objectives Our Commitment Contact Information Department Flyer Site Map Resources Chemical Engineering Back TTU Lab Safety Manual Safety Plan Seminar Series Student Organizations Faculty & Staff Chemical Engineering Back Faculty Directory Staff Directory Open Faculty Positions News Chemical Engineering News Back News Programs Chemical Engineering Back Undergraduate Chemical Engineering Back Overview Objectives & Outcomes Minors Flowchart 155-Hour Combined BS/MS Graduate Chemical Engineering Back Overview Master of Science Program Doctor of Philosophy Program Admissions Graduate Student Profile Recent Graduates Department Brochure Graduate Handbook 2021 Graduate Handbook Prior to 2021 Financial Aid & Scholarships Chemical Engineering Back Undergraduate Graduate Student Resources Chemical Engineering Back Undergraduate Advising Graduate Advising Mentor Program FAQ Anonymous Reporting Anonymous Suggestions Research Chemical Engineering Back Overview Chemical Engineering Back Research Overview Research Productivity Research Highlights Publications Chemical Engineering Publications Back Journal Articles Book Chapters Books Alumni Chemical Engineering Back Overview Chemical Engineering Overview Back Alumni Overview Alumni Mentoring Program Distinguished Engineer Award Winners Contact Info Update External Advisory Board Chemical Engineering External Advisory Board Back Mission and Membership News Chemical Engineering Back Alumni News Additional Resources TTU HomeDirectory Raiderlink A-Z Index