Skip to content Columbia University Irving Medical Center Find People Events Faculty and Staff Resources Give Now Search About Us About Us Facts and Figures Explore CUIMC Events Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion at CUIMC Community Development and Alumni Explore CUIMC Leadership and Administration A-Z Listing Affiliated Hospitals Campus Map and Directions Campus Resources Contact CUIMC Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion At CUIMC, we are committed to continuous improvement in providing culturally inclusive medical education and clinical care. Learn About Our Commitment Education Education Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons Mailman School of Public Health School of Nursing College of Dental Medicine VP&S Columbia Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons is dedicated to developing the next generation of leaders in medicine Learn About Our Academic Programs Research Research The Louisa Gross Horwitz Prize Columbia Technology Ventures Research Administration Columbia Clinical Innovation Lab Patient Care Patient Care ColumbiaDoctors Children's Health Columbia Primary Care Herbert Irving Comprehensive Cancer Center ColumbiaDoctors Dentistry Digital Health Services at Columbia Find a Doctor Search for a provider by specialty, expertise, location and insurance. Schedule an appointment online. Find a Doctor News News For the Media Share Your News CUIMC Update CUIMC Celebrates Columbia Medicine Read the latest news stories about CUIMC faculty, research, and events Explore Our News COVID-19 Resources for CUIMC COVID-19 Resources for CUIMC COVID-19 Information for Patients COVID-19 Campus Safety for Employees and Students COVID-19 Vaccine Information For CUIMC Employees and Students COVID-19 Information and Resources for Clinical Staff COVID-19 Vaccine Information Learn about COVID-19 vaccine availability and requirements for employees and students at CUIMC Get the Latest Information Mental Health Topics Campus News Research Medical School Public Health Cancer Mental Health Infectious Diseases Neurology Neuroscience Education Heart Health Pediatrics View All Topics Search All News Keywords News Subtopics: Depression Psychiatry Top Stories Mental Health Care in AAPI Communities: Overcoming Language, Stigma, and Other Barriers Language differences, stigma, and the "model minority" myth prevent many people in Asian American and Pacific Islander communities from getting mental health care. Topic Campus News Making the Most of Telehealth for Talk Therapy Most mental health problems can be addressed via telehealth, says Columbia psychiatrist Deborah Cabaniss, and there are things patients can do to make the most of their sessions. Topic Campus News CUIMC Initiative Receives Federal Community Project Funding The COVID-19 Northern Manhattan Community Mental Wellness Corps, a new initiative to address mental health disparities in Northern Manhattan and parts of the Bronx, has received federal funding. Topic Campus News New Study Identifies Gaps in Emergency Care for Youth in Crisis New survey reveals that pediatric emergency departments need more guidance to help children and adolescents with mental health crises. Topic Pediatrics Latest News Gender Identity: 5 Questions with Walter Bockting March 28, 2019 A new generation of transgender youth and adults is rejecting the traditional binary model of gender identity, says Walter Bockting of Columbia’s Gender Identity Program. For Schizophrenia, Some Drug Combinations May Be More Effective Than Others February 20, 2019 A new study suggests that antidepressants may control symptoms of schizophrenia better than other types of psychiatric drugs when combined with antipsychotic drugs. Topic Psychiatry To Head Off Late-Life Depression, Check Your Hearing January 2, 2019 A new study of elderly Hispanics found that hearing loss increased the risk of depression symptoms. Topic Aging Tiny Brain Region Allows Memory to Influence Social Aggression December 7, 2018 The tiny CA2 region of the brain allows memories to influence the decision to be socially aggressive and may contribute to abnormal social behaviors associated with some mental illnesses. Topic Neuroscience Mental Health Care Increases, but Imbalance Found December 3, 2018 An increase in mental health care is being driven by people with little or no psychological distress, while many with serious distress don’t get the care they need, Columbia researchers have found. What's In a Name? For Psychotropic Medications, Stigma November 1, 2018 Columbia psychiatrists say current names for psychotropic medications adversely affect patient care and clinicians should adopt new names that do not increase stigma. Topic Pediatrics Suicide Prevention for Teens and Young Adults September 26, 2018 Suicidal thoughts are a normal reaction to an abnormal set of circumstances, says Columbia psychologist Ali Mattu, but the silence around suicide isolates people when they need help the most. Insomnia Exacts Heavy Toll on Quality of Life September 25, 2018 Insomnia accounts for a significantly greater loss of quality of life at the population level than arthritis, obesity, or depressive disorders, a new study from Columbia Psychiatry has found. Topic Research Helping Kids Cope with Back-to-School Anxiety September 7, 2018 For parents struggling with a child's back-to-school anxiety, Columbia University psychologist Anne Marie Albano has some advice. Topic Psychiatry Dopamine Helps Neurons Grow Up September 5, 2018 The brain’s spiny neurons help us make decisions, but without a dose of dopamine at a specific time in childhood, the neurons remain immature. Topic Psychiatry Pages first previous … 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 … next last Columbia University Irving Medical Center NewYork-Presbyterian About Us Careers News Education Patient Care Research Resources at CUIMC Columbia University Irving Medical Center 630 West 168th Street New York, NY 10032 United States Follow Us Facebook Twitter YouTube LinkedIn Instagram Back to top