Skip to main content Skip to primary site menu Skip to primary site search Google Tag Manager Facilities Management University Event and Conference Services Show/Hide Services Event Management Virtual Events For Brown Departments For Other Organizations & Individuals Event Support Fees & Labor Rates Related Services Events Toolkit Virtual Events Planning Guide Step by Step Planning Guide Facilities Fees & Labor Rates Visiting Guest and Dignitaries Campus Event Venues Campus Partners Commencement Departmental Ceremonies Events Policies Postering and Publicity About Us Staff See What We Do Virtual Event Gallery Volunteer with us Contact Us Presidential Host Program Planon Presidential Host Program About the Hosts Program The program provides the opportunity for students to connect with University leaders, alumni, and invited community guests. These student hosts represent the diverse opinions, thoughts, values, and realities of the Brown experience. Meeting and greeting guests at University events and ceremonies, these student hosts are the ambassadors and representatives of the University. Presidential Hosts are committed and dedicated students. Duties and Responsibilities The work entails meeting and greeting at lectures, receptions, private dinners, and award ceremonies. Hosts also assist with the logistics of an event to ensure that it runs smoothly. The Office of University Event & Conference Services relies on Presidential Hosts to give visitors a sense of the qualities and the unique ideas of the Brown student community. In turn, Hosts gain valuable interpersonal skills and an opportunity to learn more about planning and executing events. Each year, the Office of the President and University Events & Conference Services work together with a select group of Presidential Hosts. The application process is both competitive and rigorous. The Presidential Host role requires lots of effort, enthusiasm, energy, poise, and time. The role of a Presidential Host is very important. Hosts represent the student body, and Hosts are often the first and last contacts that visitors or community members have with Brown. Event Support Request Event Management Inquiry Staff See What We Do Volunteer with us Contact Us Presidential Host Program Explore Brown University Search Brown Show/Hide Learn More About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life Find A to Z Index People Directory Information for Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Top Destinations Global Brown Watson Institute Graduate School Alpert Medical School School of Public Health School of Engineering Office of University Event & Conference Services Brown University 295 Lloyd Ave., Box 1941 Providence, RI 02912 Conferences & Event Support: Phone: (401) 863-3100 Fax: (401) 863-1943 Office Hours: 8:30AM-5:00PM FM Home Maps Feedback Giving to Brown Brown University Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-1000 Maps & Directions / Contact Us © 2022 Brown University Connect: [email protected] Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram iTunes U Google+ LinkedIn SnapChat