Skip navigation Information For: Current Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Brown University Brown Grad School About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life A to Z Index People Directory Graduate School Admitted Students Guide: About the Graduate School Graduate School Skip to Navigation Admitted Students Guide: About the Graduate School admitted students home MEET US: Graduate School Deans & Staff WHO TO ASK: Contacts for Students WHERE TO START: Graduate Student Resources Welcome to Brown! We look forward to meeting you at Orientation. The most comprehensive and up-to-date sources of information about the Graduate School are here on our website and in the Graduate School Handbook. If you have any questions or concerns that are not addressed by this guide or the website, please email us at [email protected]. Social Media The Graduate School is on Twitter @BrownGradSchool, which features fellowship news and articles for graduate students, and has a Facebook page with student news and events. Directors of Graduate Study (DGS) Every department or program offering a graduate-level degree at the University has a director of graduate study (DGS). Learn more about their role. Graduate School Governance The Graduate Council sets policy for the Graduate School, subject to the approval of the faculty and the Board of Fellows. Graduate Student Council (GSC) The GSC is the official organization for graduate students of Brown University. Learn more about what they do, who they are, and how to contact them on the GSC website. Be sure to sign up for GSC listservs as soon as you activate your Brown account and email. Home About the Graduate School Healthy Brown FAQs for Graduate Students Academics & Research Living & Resources Financing & Support Admitted Students & Orientation Application Information For Graduate Students For Faculty and Staff Brown University Brown University Graduate School Box 1867 Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-2600 Maps & Directions / Contact Us / Accessibility © 2022 Brown University Resources Graduate School Handbook Academic Code CareerLAB Brown University Writing Center Sarah Doyle Center for Women and Gender Sheridan Center for Teaching & Learning Top Destinations Admission Inquiry Form Commencement Five-Year Ph.D. Support Open Graduate Education External Funding Application Process International Applicants