Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Morrissey College of Arts and Sciences Information For Search BC.edu Links International Studies Menu Main Nav International Studies International Studies Contact Back Back Close About Overview Message from the Director News and Notes Mission Statement Giving Frequently Asked Questions Contact Us People Overview Alumni Profiles Open Faculty and TA Positions Open Student Positions Academics Overview Admission Major Minor Courses Language Study Abroad Research Thesis Awards Advising & Career Overview Faculty & Staff Advising Peer Advising Career Conversations Internships Fellowships Service Grad Programs Projects Overview Global Conversations Global Citizenships Project Global Engagement Portal IS Summit Retreat Suggested Readings on the Global Dynamics of Anti-blackness Webinars Other Internet Resources Voices Close Contact Directory A to Z Listing Search Morrissey College Search BC.edu Find pages or people Search Close Close Apply Visit Give BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close The International Studies Program offers a flexible and rigorous interdisciplinary undergraduate major and minor in the Morrissey College of Arts and Sciences that develops keen analytical skills and ethical reasoning amidst complex global dynamics. Where will the International Studies Program take you? We can't wait to find out. Quick Links Read a welcome letter from our director, Erik Owens Keep in touch by subscribing to our weekly newsletter and following us on Instagram and Facebook. Meet our Peer Advisors, who help majors and minors understand grad requirements, course registration, study abroad, and more. Locate forms for course substitutions, withdrawals, or pre-approvals; internships, etc. on the Academic Forms page. Learn about the pathway through the major and minor, including admission, selecting courses, preparing for study abroad, writing a senior thesis, and thinking about post-grad opportunities. We have posted presentations, webinars (which inlude student testimonials), and a program flyer. Read reflections from students and alumni about their experience in the IS Program. Registration and Advising All IS majors should meet with their academic advisor before registering for next semester's courses. New majors (class of 2025) will be assigned an IS faculty advisor this summer, but can work with IS Peer Advisors until then. Please consult the IS Advising Handbook for detailed requirements for the IS major and minor. Approved Fall 2022 IS courses are listed on the Courses page, and on the Approved Fall 2022 Courses spreadsheet. A central list of *all* approved electives -- which does not indicate the semester offered, but gives students a sense of course options for the future -- is also available. Registration dates: Rising seniors (2023): April 6-7 Rising juniors (2024): April 8-11 Rising sophomores (2025): April 12-13 All courses taken abroad for IS credit must be pre-approved, using this form. Apply to be an IS major Please visit our Admission page for complete information about applying to the major or declaring a minor. Here are a few important details: BC students who wish to become IS majors should submit an application by 5pm on February 1 of their freshman year. Transfer students who will start their sophomore year at BC should contact the IS Program as soon as you are accepted to BC, and complete the same application as the BC students. Each year we accept a handful of transfer students into our program. Late applications may be accepted at the discretion of the director and associate director, when space allows. Please submit your application here and let us know (via isp@bc.edu) that you've filed an application. Please note that it is extremely rare for new majors to be accepted after the first week of their sophomore year. Support the IS Program The IS Program would benefit greatly from a gift of your time (to give advice, share job listings, mentor students, or write about your experiences) or your financial support (to enhance programs and opportunities for studens and faculty)! See the Giving page for more details. Experience the Global Engagement Portal March 15 - April 29 The Global Engagement Portal connects small groups at BC to inspiring activists, entrepreneurs, and creative thinkers in Mali, Uganda, Rwanda, Palestine, Iraqi Kurdistan, Bangladesh, and Mexico City. Get more info here and contact Saraphina Birtolo '22 to schedule a time in the Portal for your student group or class. Subscribe to the IS Newsletter Our weekly newsletter includes program news, student voices, faculty profiles, campus events, and info about internships, fellowships, study abroad, and careers. Subscribe here! Help lead Global Conversations The Global Conversation project is prepping for next year's conversations, and we're looking for student leaders! Read more about the leadership roles or go directly to the application. Meet the 2021-22 Peer Advisors Peer Advisors are terrific resources for questions about admissions, courses, professors, study abroad, theses, etc. Click to learn more or make an appointment. Program News All Faculty Students Awards Announcements International Studies Back To Top Back To Top International Studies Connolly House 300 Hammond Street Chestnut Hill, MA 02467 617-552-6396 isp@bc.edu Facebook Morrissey College of Arts and Sciences Gasson Hall 140 Commonwealth Avenue Chestnut Hill, MA 02467 About Undergraduate Graduate Faculty & Research Departments Contact Departments Art, Art History, and Film Biology Chemistry Classical Studies Communication Computer Science Earth and Environmental Sciences Economics Engineering English German Studies History Mathematics Music Philosophy Physics Political Science Psychology Romance Languages and Literatures Slavic & Eastern Languages and Literatures Sociology Theatre Theology Give to International Studies Apply Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College