Skip to main content iastate.edu Index A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z Directory Maps Safety Sign Ons Iowa State University Menu Toggle Search Toggle Search Admissions Future students Apply Cost of attendance Financial aid Request information Visit Academics Colleges, departments and schools Library Research Global programs Graduate programs Distance education Undergrad majors Students Info for students Academic support Schedule of classes University catalog Health and wellness Student organizations Safety Info for Students Faculty & staff Parents & families Alumni Business & industry Giving to ISU About Extension & outreach Information technology Employment Diversity and inclusion Arts and attractions Athletics Cyclone athletics Sports schedules Tickets Consumer Information The Higher Education Opportunity Act of 2008 (HEOA) requires that postsecondary institutions participating in federal student aid programs make certain disclosures to enrolled and prospective students, parents, employees, and the public. The following information is disclosed to you in compliance with federal law. For additional information, including requesting a paper copy of any materials, please call or e-mail the appropriate office or visit the indicated websites. Accreditation Contact: Shawn Boyne, Director of Academic Quality and Undergraduate Education | Email: smboyne@iastate.edu | Phone: (515) 294-7063 Information concerning ISU's institutional and specialized accreditations is available in the ISU Fact Book. The Higher Learning Commission Mark of Affiliation is available here. Following guidelines established by the Board of Regents for Iowa, all academic programs are assessed through a formal Program Review process on a regular basis. In addition to review of the programs, Iowa State University continually reviews and assesses the educational programs through student outcomes assessment. Information regarding ISU's assessment of academic programs is also available. Academic Programs and Institutional Information Contact: Registrar | Email: registrar@iastate.edu | Phone: (515) 294-1840 Information concerning ISU's current educational programs and course descriptions is available in the University Catalog. The catalog also includes a listing of current faculty. Information about campus facilities, including those that relate to instructional programs, is available through the campus map and in the ISU Fact Book. College Navigator College Navigator is a free consumer information tool designed to help students, parents, high school counselors, and others search for and obtain information about U.S. postsecondary institutions. Enter Iowa State University as Name of School to view ISU College Navigator information. Complaint Process for Students Contact: Division of Student Affairs | Email: studentaffairs@iastate.edu | Phone: (515) 294-4420 The Formal Complaint Process for Students provides information for ISU students who encounter a problem on campus or feel that he/she has been treated unfairly. Content includes suggested steps for resolving issues informally, the process and means to file a formal complaint, and the Complaint Review and Resolution Process guidelines. Confidentiality of Student Records and Student Health Records (FERPA and HIPAA) Contact: Registrar | Email: registrar@iastate.edu | Phone: (515) 294-1840 Contact: Thielen Student Health Center | Email: studenthealth@iastate.edu | Phone: (515) 294-5801 The Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act (FERPA) affords students certain rights with respect to their education records. ISU publishes a FERPA notification that delineates student rights under FERPA. ISU information on confidentiality of student records is published in the University Catalog. ISU is committed to protecting the privacy and security of personal health information concerning our employees and students. See the ISU HIPAA policy for more information. Copyright Infringement and Peer-to-Peer File Sharing Policies and Sanctions Contact: Office of the CIO | Phone: (515) 294-0323 Information regarding file sharing and copyright policies and resources at Iowa State University is available. This includes information on the Digital Millenium Copyright Act (DMCA) and individual rights and responsibilities. Cost of Attendance Contact: Student Financial Aid | Email: financialaid@iastate.edu | Phone: (515) 294-2223 Information concerning the cost of attending ISU is available from the Office of Student Financial Aid. These costs consist of tuition and fees, books and supplies, room and board, transportation, and any additional costs for a program in which the student is enrolled or expresses an interest. Crime Statistics, Campus Security Policies, Crime Log, and Fire Log Contact: Assistant Vice President/Chief of Police | Email: mrnewton@iastate.edu | Phone: (515) 294-4428 | Emergency Phone: 911 Information regarding public safety at ISU is provided in the Annual Security and Fire Safety Report. The Security Report includes crime statistics and policy statements as required; information about police and public safety resources; reporting crimes; coordination between law enforcement agencies; fire and medical emergencies; emergency notification, response and evaluation; missing student policy; crime prevention; victim support services; the law and ISU policies; campus facilities; residence hall security; the ISU Policy on Sexual Harassment; sex offender registry; and the ISU Drug/Alcohol Policy. ISU publishes an annual Fire Log, which includes information regarding fires on-campus including the nature, date, time and location of each fire. To obtain a paper copy of the Annual Security and Fire Safety Report, contact the Iowa State University Department of Public Safety at (515) 294-4428. Drug/Alcohol Policy Contact: Assistant Vice President/Chief of Police | Email: mrnewton@iastate.edu | Phone: (515) 294-4428 | Emergency Phone: 911 The Annual Security and Fire Safety Report includes the institution's drug/alcohol policy. The annual report also provides information about alcohol and other drug health risks, drug alcohol laws and penalties, and campus alcohol and other drug education and counseling resources. Financial Aid Contact: Student Financial Aid | Email: financialaid@iastate.edu | Phone: (515) 294-2223 The Office of Student Financial Aid website includes information about the following: need-based and non-need-based federal, state, local, private, and institutional financial assistance programs available to students; eligibility requirements and procedures for applying for aid; criteria for selecting recipients and determining amount of award; methods and frequency of disbursements of aid; financial aid terms and conditions, including terms applicable to employment provided as part of a financial aid package; rights and responsibilities of students receiving Title IV, HEA loans; the availability of financial aid for study abroad programs; how financial aid is handled when students withdraw; and whom to contact for questions regarding financial aid; the terms and conditions of federal student loans; entrance and exit counseling information; and drug violation penalties. All of these disclosures can be accessed on the Financial Aid Consumer Information Disclosures web page. The retention rate for Pell Grant recipients (Excel download) and the code of conduct for financial aid employees is also listed. Financial Aid Calculator Students may use the financial aid calculator to find estimates. Graduation and Retention Rates (Student Right-to-Know Act) Contact: Institutional Research | Email: ir@iastate.edu | Phone: (515) 294-1181 Graduation data and retention rates for ISU full-time, degree-seeking, undergraduate students are available in the ISU Fact Book. ISU retention, graduation, and transfer out data are also available on the Student Achievement Measure (SAM) website. Graduation and Retention Rates for Student Athletes Contact: Athletics, Dr. Charles Small | Email: csmall@iastate.edu | Phone: (515) 294-5410 The Department of Athletics annually publishes graduation data and retention rates for ISU student athletes on athletically related aid. Identity Theft Prevention Policy Contact: Accounts Receivable | Email: ubill@iastate.edu | Phone: (515) 294-7388 As required by the FTC's Red Flags Rule, Iowa State University has established and will maintain an Identity Theft Prevention Program. Information on the ISU prevention program is available in the ISU Policy Library. Intercollegiate Athletic Program Participation Rates and Financial Support Data Contact: Athletics, Andrew Kautman | Email: akautman@iastate.edu | Phone: (515) 294-3810 In compliance with the Equity in Athletics Disclosure Act, the Department of Athletics publishes information on men's and women's athletic programs at ISU. The EADA report includes the number of participants by gender for each team, operating and recruiting expenses, coaches' salaries, revenues, and athletically related student aid. Missing Student Policy and Notification Procedures Contact: Assistant Vice President/Chief of Police | Email: mrnewton@iastate.edu | Phone: (515) 294-4428 | Emergency Phone: 911 ISU's missing student policy and notification procedures to be followed when an ISU student has been reported missing for more than 24 hours are available in the Annual Security and Fire Safety Report. The report also includes directions for students on how to submit emergency contact and missing person contact information. Outcomes of Graduates Contact: Career Services | Email: careerservices@iastate.edu The University Career Services Council, on behalf of the college-based career services offices, collects and publishes information on the post-graduation status of ISU degree recipients. Six-month post-graduation survey statistics include information on the outcomes of and types of employment, professional and graduate schools for ISU graduates. Survey response rates are also provided. Professional Licensure Information Contact: Shawn Boyne, Director of Academic Quality and Undergraduate Education | Email: smboyne@iastate.edu | Phone: (515) 294-7063 Pursuant to 34 C.F.R. § 600.9, Iowa State University is required to disclose consumer information regarding our curricular programs that “foreseeably lead” to careers requiring state licensure. This regulation requires us to determine whether or not our licensure-related programs satisfy the educational requirements for professional licensure in the states where our prospective students are located. Accordingly, we are required to disclose for each program that leads to licensure whether: (1) the program meets the educational requirements for professional licensure in a specific state; (2) the program does not meet the educational requirements for professional licensure in a specific state; or (3) we have not determined whether our program meets a particular state’s educational requirements. Because licensing requirements differ dramatically by occupational category as well as by state, we encourage prospective students to check their state legislative codes to verify the information presented here. We will strive to update this information on an annual basis by July 1 of each year. Refund Policy, Requirements for Withdrawal, and Return of Title IV, HEA Financial Aid Contact: Student Financial Aid | Email: financialaid@iastate.edu | Phone: (515) 294-2223 If a student withdraws or drops a course, ISU will adhere to its refund policy as published in the University Catalog. The Catalog also contains information regarding the requirements and procedures for students seeking to withdraw officially. Requirements for return of Title IV, HEA grant or loan aid are available through the Financial Aid Consumer Information Disclosures page on the Office of Student Financial Aid website. Services for Students with Disabilities Contact: Student Accessibility Services | Email: accessibility@iastate.edu | Phone: (515) 294-7220 Student Accessibility Services (SAS) provides disability-related information and referrals for ISU students, determines eligibility for services and facilitates reasonable accommodations, coordinates disability-related technical assistance and auxiliary aids/services, and provides advocacy and training. Visit the Student Accessibility Services homepage for additional information on services and resources available to students with disabilities. Social Security Number Policy Contact: Controller's Department | Email: spolaski@iastate.edu | Phone: (515) 294-7662 The use of SSN as an identification number within ISU is limited to those uses permitted by law. To protect the privacy of persons whose SSN is collected, all university offices follow procedures in the University's Social Security Number Policy, available in the ISU Policy Library. Student Body Diversity Contact: Institutional Research | Email: ir@iastate.edu | Phone: (515) 294-1181 Information about student body diversity, including the number of enrolled full-time students by gender and race/ethnicity, is provided in the ISU Fact Book. The number of undergraduate students who receive a Federal Pell Grant is available on College Navigator. Teacher Education Contact: Teacher Ed Program | Email: hldoell@iastate.edu | Phone: (515) 294-6368 Title II of the Higher Education Act requires annual reports on Teacher Education Programs and the state of Iowa requires annual reports from Educator Preparation Programs. Iowa State University’s Educator Preparation Program publishes these annual reports. Textbook Information/Required Course Materials Contact: Registrar | Email: registrar@iastate.edu | Phone: (515) 294-1840 Contact: University Bookstore | Phone: (515) 294-5684 The online ISU Schedule of Classes includes a link to textbook and required materials for each course as soon as the information is available for a given term. Textbook information is also available directly from the University Bookstore website. Transfer of Credit and Articulation Agreements Contact: Office of Admissions | Email: admissions@iastate.edu | Phone: (515) 294-5836 Transfer of credit policies and articulation agreements are published in the University Catalog. The Admissions website transfer section provides transfer information, course equivalency guides, and transfer plans for Iowa Community Colleges as well as some community colleges outside of Iowa. More specific information on articulation agreements with Iowa Community Colleges is available in The Public Connection. For specific course to course articulation, TRANSIT and TRANSFEROLOGY display how credits from a community college or another university may transfer to a degree program at Iowa State. Vaccination Policies Contact: Thielen Student Health Center | Email: studenthealth@iastate.edu | Phone: (515) 294-5801 Iowa State University follows the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention's recommendation for immunizations. Specific requirements for vaccinations are published on the health center's new and transfer student information page. Voter Registration Information on voting in local, state, and federal elections, including a copy of the Iowa voter registration application form, may be accessed at the Iowa Secretary of State website and the Story County Auditor's Election Information website. University Nondiscrimination Statement "Iowa State University does not discriminate on the basis of race, color, age, ethnicity, religion, national origin, pregnancy, sexual orientation, gender identity, genetic information, sex, marital status, disability, or status as a U.S. Veteran. Inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies may be directed to Office of Equal Opportunity, 3410 Beardshear Hall, 515 Morrill Road, Ames, Iowa 50011, Tel. 515 294-7612, Hotline: 515-294-1222, email: eooffice@iastate.edu." Published by: Office of Student Financial Aid, (515) 294-2223, financialaid@iastate.edu Office of Institutional Research, (515) 294-1181, ir@iastate.edu Web page contact: Office of Institutional Research, (515) 294-1181, ir@iastate.edu Updated: May 2022 Contents General University Accreditation Academic Programs and Institutional Information College Navigator Graduation and Retention Rates (Student Right-to-Know Act) Complaint Process for Students Outcomes of Graduates Professional Licensure Information Services for Students with Disabilities Student Body Diversity Teacher Education Textbook Information/Required Course Materials Transfer of Credit and Articulation Agreements Voter Registration University Nondiscrimination Statement Financial Aid Cost of Attendance Financial Aid Financial Aid Calculator Refund Policy, Requirements for Withdrawal, and Return of Title IV, HEA Financial Aid Safety/Security Confidentiality of Student Records and Student Health Records (FERPA and HIPAA) Copyright Infringement and Peer-to-Peer File Sharing Policies and Sanctions Crime Statistics, Campus Security Policies, Crime Log, and Fire Log Drug/Alcohol Policy Fire Log Identity Theft Prevention Policy Missing Student Policy and Notification Procedures Social Security Number Policy Vaccination Policies Athletics Graduation and Retention Rates for Student Athletes Intercollegiate Athletic Program Participation Rates and Financial Support Data Iowa State University Ames, IA 50011 contact@iastate.edu 515-294-4111 phone More contacts Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube Social Media Directory Copyright © 1995-2020 Iowa State University of Science and Technology All rights reserved Non-discrimination Policy Privacy Policy Digital Access & Accessibility Consumer information