Skip to main content Skip to primary site menu Google Tag Manager University Human Resources Protected Veteran Status Brown University is subject to the Vietnam Era Veterans’ Readjustment Assistance Act of 1974 (VEVRAA), as amended by the Jobs for Veterans Act of 2002. VEVRAAs equal opportunity clause requires government contractors to take affirmative action to employ and advance in employment “Protected Veterans”. Our affirmative action obligations also include: (1) maintaining a written Affirmative Action Program; (2) extending an invitation to applicants for employment to identify their veteran status; (3) engaging in other outreach to, and positive recruitment efforts of veterans; and (4) measuring the effectiveness of the outreach. Protected Veterans are defined by the government as follows: - Disabled Veteran is: (1) a veteran of the U.S. military, ground, naval or air service entitled to compensation (or who but for receipt of military retired pay would be entitled to compensation) under laws administered by the Secretary of Veterans Affairs; or (2) a person discharged or released from active duty because of a service-connected disability. - Recently Separated Veteran means any veteran during the three-year period beginning on the date of such veteran’s discharge or release from active duty in the U.S. military, group, naval or air service. - Active Duty Wartime or Campaign Badge Veteran means a veteran who served on active duty in the U.S. military, ground, naval or air service during a war or in a campaign or expedition for which a campaign badge has been authorized under the laws administered by the Department of Defense. - Armed Forces Services Medal Veteran means veteran who, while serving on active duty in the U.S. military, ground, naval or air service, participated in a United States military operation for which an Armed Forces service medal was awarded pursuant to Executive Order 12985. Submission of this information is voluntary. Refusal to provide it will not subject you to any adverse treatment. Information provided will be kept confidential, and will be used only in ways that are consistent with VEVRAA, such as (1) informing supervisors and managers of restrictions on the work or duties of a disabled veteran and of necessary accommodations; (2) informing first air and safety personnel to the extent appropriate of conditions that might require emergency treatment; and (3) informing government officials engaged in enforcing VEVRAA or the Americans with Disabilities Act. Also in University Human Resources Benefits Compensation Employee & Labor Relations Annual Staff Evaluations Separating Employees Staff Conflict of Interest and Commitment Recruitment & Staffing Student Employment Talent Development Explore Brown University Explore Brown University Learn More Brown Homepage About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life Find A to Z Index People Directory Information for Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Top Destinations Global Brown Watson Institute Brown & Providence Graduate School Alpert Medical School School of Public Health School of Engineering University Human Resources University Human Resources Brown University Box 1879 350 Eddy Street, 4th floor Providence, RI 02912 Phone: 401-863-3175 Email [email protected] Twitter Twitter Facebook Facebook Giving to Brown Brown University Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-1000 Maps & Directions / Contact Us / Accessibility © 2022 Brown University Connect: [email protected] Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram iTunes U LinkedIn SnapChat