Skip to main content Google Tag Manager Explore Brown University Search Brown Show/Hide powered by Learn More About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life Find A to Z Index People Directory Information for Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Top Destinations Global Brown Watson Institute Graduate School Alpert Medical School School of Public Health School of Engineering Swearer Center. Brown University. Search form Search Home About Programs Voting at Brown Events at Swearer about programs People Stories Students Faculty Community Partners Friends & Alumni Sign up for our Newsletter Programs Brown University AmeriCorps VISTA Fellowship The Brown University AmeriCorps VISTA Fellowship is a full-time fellowship opportunity hosted through The Swearer Center at Brown University. VISTA fellows are matched with a local organization, state agency, or a Swearer Center team to build capacity in organizations fighting poverty. This VISTA Fellowship provides high-impact professional development and training for our VISTA fellows. Training addresses skills required to carry out the assigned VISTA role, as well as skill-building that will be valuable to the VISTA fellow in their future professional pursuits. The fellowship is a cohort-based experience that creates the opportunity to learn from your peers in the fellowship as much as you will learn from your service and from Brown and the Swearer Center. meet the AmeriCorps VISTA fellows Structure VISTA fellows are matched with a local organization, state agency, or Swearer Center team to provide capacity-building support for anti-poverty initiatives. Agencies work in the education, health, arts and/or economic justice sector. Examples of current VISTA fellowship sites include: Beat the Streets Providence Impact Evaluation VISTA Breakthrough Providence VISTA Brown University RIFLI Literacy Volunteer VISTA House of Hope Youth Program VISTA Inspiring Minds Partnership and Outreach VISTA Inspiring Minds Volunteer Engagement VISTA Providence After School Alliance VISTA Social Enterprise Greenhouse Program Development VISTA (Spanish) Social Enterprise Greenhouse Communications and Outreach VISTA Swearer Center Communications VISTA Swearer Center Community Partnership VISTA Youth in Action Project Coordinator VISTA Trainings will include role-specific support in data analysis, community organizing and relationship building. Professional development workshops will also support VISTA fellows in advancing their careers. The fellowship is team-focused and provides a variety of resources to help you make the most of your service year experience. Benefits Rhode Island, despite being the smallest state, has the highest concentration of non-profits in the New England area. Providence, being the capital, contains a rich diversity of community work and action. With the support of AmeriCorps, Brown University, site placement organizations and the Swearer Center combined, fellows will have access to a unique array of development opportunities and resources that include: Conferences and online professional development tools through AmeriCorps. Professional development trainings from site placement organizations and covered expenses for personal training opportunities. Brown University’s resources such as on-campus libraries, lectures, workshops, newsletters, online academic and professional learning resources, and research opportunities. Intensive monthly professional development sessions through the Swearer Center and opportunities to build community with other Providence VISTA fellows. In addition, benefits available to all AmeriCorps VISTA fellows include, but are not limited to: Biweekly Living Allowance End-of-Service Award Healthcare Benefit Childcare (if eligible) Travel allowance Reduction of Education Costs Professional Development Non-Competitive Eligibility (NCE) Status For more information, please visit the benefits of service web page. Eligibility/Qualifications Eligible candidates for the Brown University AmeriCorps VISTA Fellowship will be: A U.S. citizen or legal permanent resident. At least 18 years old. A high school school graduate (diploma or GED). Qualifications: Excellent verbal and written communication skills. Strong computer skills. Responsible and reliable. Able to work in a dynamic environment. Experience with volunteer work preferred. Apply Applications for the Brown University AmeriCorps VISTA Fellowship are currently open. To apply, please visit the AmeriCorps applicant portal. Contact Emmery Brakke, AmeriCorps Program Associate at [email protected]. Brown University AmeriCorps VISTA Leader Celebrating the Class of 2022. read> Celebrating the Class of 2021. read> See All Brown University AmeriCorps VISTA Fellowship Stories FAQ Contact Swearer Center Brown University 2 Stimson Avenue Box 1974 Providence, R.I. 02912 +1 401 863 2338 s[email protected] Quicklinks Home About Programs Voting at Brown Events at Swearer BrownEngage Connect Swearer http://www.facebook.com/SwearerCenter https://twitter.com/swearercenter https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCDdrA9Z9vbwIOAjCHxjvp7Q https://www.instagram.com/swearercenter/ https://www.linkedin.com/company/swearercenter Giving to Brown Brown University Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-1000 Maps & Directions / Contact Us / Accessibility © 2016 Brown University Connect: [email protected] Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram iTunes U LinkedIn SnapChat