Skip to main content FSU >> FSU LIBRARIES Top Right Search Box Search Our Website... * OneSearch | My Account Florida State University Libraries Search & Find Advanced Search Find a Database Journal Search Special Collections Search DigiNole Search Services & Research All Services Subject Librarians Distance Learning Digital Research & Scholarship Special Collections & Archives Government Information About the Libraries Libraries Overview Member Libraries Departments Accessibility @ FSU Libraries Diversity & Inclusion Giving to the Libraries Facts & Figures Strategic Plan Advancement Board Materials & Borrowing Borrowing Materials Library Express Delivery Interlibrary Loan Materials Purchase Request Help & Support Get Help Library Hours Maps & Directions Visitor Information COVID Guidelines Home >> List of Services >> Library Express Delivery Service (LEDS) Library Express Delivery Service (LEDS) Library Express Deilvery Service (LEDS) delivers library materials for current FSU faculty members, graduate students, and staff with registered departmental office pick-up and drop-off locations. Scanned articles and book chapters are also available for delivery via email. Deliveries are made during regular business hours and most items are delivered to department offices within 48 hours. If you have questions or encounter any issues, please email us at lib-delivery@fsu.edu and someone from our team will contact you. How To Register In order to place a request, you must register an account with LEDS. Account holders can check on the status of their order and view past orders. Please note, this account is different from what is used to login to the Central Authentification Services (CAS) at FSU. To get started, fill out this registration form. Please give us 24 hours to process your registration before placing a LEDS request. If you have issues registering, please contact our team at lib-delivery@fsu.edu. How to Access our Collections The entirety of our collection catalog record can be viewed using our OneSearch tool. You can access OneSearch directly using this link, or you can also access OneSearch directly from the FSU Libraries homepage. Once inside the OneSearch portal, click "Sign In" in the top-right to login using your FSUID and password. This will allow you to make LEDS requests, access our complete collection and details, and save items to your pinned items list for quick access. For more information on how to use OneSearch, check our our new video tutorials. How to request a book through LEDS Found a book in Onesearch you want to request through LEDS to have delivered? The process is easy and can be completed in just a few steps! Make sure you have your log-in information available and have already registered for LEDS. 1) Once signed in, use OneSearch to find the item you want to request delivery service for. Don't forget to use our facets on the left to filter your results! 2) Click on the title of the item to pull up the complete Catalog Record. Navigate to the "Get It" section and click request. (NOTE: This will NOT be an option if you are not signed in to OneSearch) 3) Fill out the following boxes with the appropriate informaiton. When prompted, select "Library Express Delivery Service - Office Pickup Location" under the "Pickup Location" option. 4) Click Submit! If our team has questions, they will be in contact with you via your FSU email. TIP: Don't see the LEDS option under "Pickup Location"? This means you need to fill out the registration form for LEDS. Remember, registration can take up to 24 hours to process. How to Request Articles or Chapter Scans Need a specific article not available online? Or, do you need a select few chapters copied and sent to you? Our team can help! We can scan these items for you and deliver them directly to your FSU email. 1) Once signed in, use OneSearch to find the item you want to request delivery service for. Don't forget to use our facets on the left to filter your results 2) Click on the title of the item to pull up the complete Catalog Record. Navigate to the "Send To" section and select the "Digitization Request" link. 3) Fill out the form appropriately to complete your request! - OR - 1) Find a book or article that doesn't have this option? We can still scan it for you! Simply fill out the LEDS Request Form and make sure to include as much information about your request as possible, including "Item Type", volume, and page number information. 2) Click "Submit"! If our team has questions, they will be in contact with you via your FSU email. How to Request Item Pickup Service at a Departmental Office To make LEDS as convenient as possible for scholars, our team can even retreive your items when you're finished with them. We do request that all item pickups be left in your deparment's main office so our staff can efficiently service the entire campus. All you have to do is fill out the LEDS Pickup Request Form and make sure to leave your items in the appropriate place! Unfortuanately, we are not able to pick up items directly from individual office rooms. Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs) Who is eligible to use LEDS? Current faculty, graduate students, and staff with registered departmental pickup and drop-off locations are able to register for LEDS. To register, fill out the LEDS Registration Form. If your department doesn't have registered locations with us, have someone contact our team at lib-delivery@fsu.edu to add them to our department list. What items can I request delivery service for? Any of our physical books, most DVDs, or scans of individual book chapters or physical journal articles can be delivered to your departmental office by LEDS. Please note, any items in our collection deemed "Library Use Only" are not eligible for this service. How long will it take to get my delivery? Our team makes deliveries during regular business hours, Monday through Friday. Most deliveries are fulfilled within 48 hours, but you may experience slightly longer wait times with requests during our peak use seasons or if the item is coming from remote storage. Please note, deliveries are not made when the Libraries are closed, including for University holidays or emergencies. How do book chapter or article scans work? Once a scan request has been submitted, the LEDS team will locate and pull the item from our stacks. The item will be temporarily checked out to your account and you may receive a circulation notice via email. Once the LEDS team has finished scanning the files to our computers, we will send a .PDF file to your FSU email address. Once the scanning process is complete, the item will be discharged from your account and re-shelved. I don't see the "Get It" option in OneSearch? There are several possible reasons why the "Get It" option could not appearing. 1) You may need to register (or re-register) for LEDS using the LEDS Registration Form. 2) There may be an error in our records. 3) You may be using an outdated browser. We reccommend either Google Chrome or Mozilla FireFox. I don't see the "Digitization Request" option in OneSearch? There are several possible reasons why the "Get It" option could not appearing. 1) You may need to register (or re-register) for LEDS using the LEDS Registration Form. 2) There may be an error in our records. 3) You may be using an outdated browser. We reccommend either Google Chrome or Mozilla FireFox. How many items can I request at one time? We do not put a limit on how many items you can request, just keep in mind it may take longer to get your request if you order a lot of items at once or items from several different branch or remote locations. Can I use this service for Interlibrary Loan items? Yes! Interlibrary loan (ILL) and uBorrow are both available for LEDS delivery. Just choose "Office Delivery" in the submission form when placing the order and our ILL team will pass the items along for us to deliver. What if I'm at the FSU Panama City, FL campus? LEDS is also at our Panama City, FL campus! Any registered faculty, graduate student or staff member looking to use LEDS at FSU Panama City needs to fill out the LEDS Panama City Form, different from our normal request process!. Where do I find the form I need? All of our forms are located below, please scroll up to the appropriate section to make sure you are filling out the correct form for your needs! LEDS Registration Form LEDS Request Form LEDS Pickup Request Form LEDS Panama City, FL Form. Service Categories: Borrowing Resources Service Redirect Link: https://www.lib.fsu.edu/service/library-express-delivery-led Contact Us LEDS (Library Express Delivery) Lib-delivery@fsu.edu LEDS Quick Links LEDS Scan Request Form Request Pickup Register New Users Pickup locations Interlibrary Loan UBorrow Library Liaisons About The Florida State University Libraries The mission of the University Libraries is to support and enhance the learning, teaching, research, and service activities of the Florida State University... READ MORE > Library Hours Maps and Directions Our Libraries Staff Directory Subject Librarians All Forms Library News Library Departments Library Events Library Services Employment Visiting the Libraries Giving to the Libraries Policies About the Libraries FAQ Government Information Staff Intranet Content Editor Login Internal Knowledge Base © Florida State University Libraries 116 Honors Way Tallahassee, FL 32306 Website Suggestions Privacy Principles Copyright Policy Contact Us (850) 644-2706 Search Articles, Books and More... * Connect with us!