Skip to Content About Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Values of Inclusion Antiracism Task Force News Research News Department Life Awards Listed by Recipient Listed by Category Oral History of Cornell CS Publications Books by Author Books Chronologically Department Timeline The 60's The 70's The 80's The 90's The 00's The 2010's Job Postings Faculty Positions: Ithaca Faculty Positions: New York City Lecturer Position: Ithaca Post-doc Position: Ithaca Staff/Technical Positions Ugrad Course Staff Ithaca Info Internal info Events Calendar Graduation Information Cornell Tech Colloquium Student Colloquium BOOM CS Colloquium Conway-Walker Lecture Series Salton Lecture Series Seminars / Lectures Spring 2022 Artificial Intelligence Seminar Spring 2022 Theory Seminar Big Red Hacks Cornell University High School Programming Contest Game Design Initiative CSMore: The Rising Sophomore Summer Program in Computer Science Explore CS Research Research Night People Chair Faculty Researchers Staff Ph.D. Students M.S. Students M.Eng. Students Ph.D. Alumni Courses List of Courses Enrollment Exams Course and Room Roster CS Advanced Standing Exam Research Architecture Artificial Intelligence Computational Biology Database Systems Graphics Human Interaction Machine Learning Natural Language Processing Programming Languages Robotics Scientific Computing Security Systems and Networking Theory of Computing Vision Undergraduate Admissions Becoming a CS Major Contact UGrad Office Contact Academic Advisor Your First CS Course CS Major Useful Forms Electives Technical Electives CS with Other Majors/Areas Transfer Credits CS Honors Program CPT for International CS Undergrads Graduation Requirements CS Engineering Requirements CS Arts & Sciences Requirements Graduation Information Minors CS Minor Game Design Minor Career Information Co-op Program Placement Report Undergrad Research Independent Research (CS 4999) Computer Science Undergraduate Research Program (CSURP) UGrad Events Undergraduate Learning Center UGrad Course Staff Info M Eng Admissions Prerequisites The Application Process The Review Process Early M.Eng Credit Approval Financial Aid FAQ Academics Degree Requirements Pre-approved Electives The Project FAQ Current Students The Course Enrollment Process Advising Tips FAQ M.Eng Lab MEng Forms Entrepreneurship Cornell Tech Programs Professional Development Graduation Information Contact MEng Office CS MEng Alumni MS Admissions Applicant FAQ Current Students Degree Requirements MS Degree Checklist MS Student Financial Support Computer Science Graduate Office Hours Exam Scheduling Guidelines Special Committee Selection Diversity and Inclusion Graduation Information Contact MS Office PhD Admissions Ph.D. Applicant FAQ Non-Degree Application Guidelines Graduate Housing Ph. D. Visit Day Current Students Field of Computer Science Ph.D. Student Handbook Ph.D. Requirements Business Card Policy Computer Science Graduate Office Hours Cornell Tech Curricular Practical Training Exam Scheduling Guidelines Fellowship Opportunities Field A Exam Summary Form Graduate School Forms Ph.D. Student Financial Support Special Committee Selection The Outside Minor Requirement Travel Funding Opportunities Diversity and Inclusion Graduation Information CS Graduate Minor Outreach Opportunities Parental Accommodation Policy Special Masters Student Groups Student Spotlights Contact PhD Office Search form Search The CS Major You are here Home < Undergraduate Arts vs. Engineering Degree · Becoming a CS Major · Academic Integrity Code General Description Computer science majors take courses covering algorithms, data structures, logic, programming languages, systems, and theory. Electives include artificial intelligence, computer graphics, computer vision, cryptography, databases, networks, and scientific computing. Requirements for the CS major in either the College of Arts and Sciences or the College of Engineering are as follows: a calculus sequence (note different college requirements) Math 1110-1120(or 1220)-2210 (A&S) Math 1910-1920-2940 (ENGR or A&S) Computer Science course requirements (see chart for prerequisite structure of CS courses): introductory programming CS 111x (CS 1110, 1112, 1114, or 1115) CS 2110 (or CS 2112) or equivalent (i.e. ECE 2400/ENGRD 2140) a five-course computer science core CS 2800 (or CS 2802) CS 3110 CS 3410 or CS 3420 CS 4410 or CS 4414 CS 4820 three 4000+ CS Electives each at three credits Exceptions: CS 4090, CS 4998, and CS 4999 are NOT allowed a CS Practicum or Project course: CS practicums (CS 4xx1) or CS 3152, CS 4152, CS 4154, CS 4740, CS 4752, CS 5150, CS 5152, CS 5412, CS 5414, CS 5431, CS 5625, or CS 5643 three 3000+ Technical Electives (information) (3 credit min per course) three 3000+ related courses to comprise an External Specialization--outside of computer science (3 credit min per course) 3 credits Major-approved Elective(s) In addition, students' course selections must satisfy the requirement listed below. Note that courses used to satisfy this requirement are not extra but can be incorporated into the major requirements listed above, where applicable. a probability course: one of BTRY 3080, CS 4850, ECE 3100, ECON 3130, ENGRD 2700 or MATH 4710. (Choosing a 3000+ level course among these options is strongly recommended.) For suggestions on how to select a set of electives that reflect one of a number of coherent, recognized sub-areas of study in computer science, see the material on Vectors. Two undergraduate degrees are offered: A Bachelors of Science for students in the College of Engineering. A Bachelors of Arts for students in the College of Arts and Sciences. Neither program has a particular advantage from the standpoint of employment or graduate school. Department Policy on Academic Integrity Violations of the Cornell University Code of Academic Integrity occurring in Computer Science courses are taken very seriously by the Computer Science faculty. Therefore, it is necessary to impress upon students the gravity of violations of the Code. The following are excerpts from a longer version of the Cornell University Code of Academic Integrity. The exclusion of any part does not excuse ignorance of the Code. Principle Absolute integrity is expected of every Cornell student in all academic undertakings; he/she must in no way misrepresent his/her work fraudulently or unfairly advance his/her academic status, or be a party to another student's failure to maintain academic integrity. The maintenance of an atmosphere of academic honor and the fulfillment of the provisions of this Code are the responsibilities of the students and faculty of Cornell University. Therefore, all students and faculty members shall refrain from any action that would violate the basic principles of this Code. General Responsibilities A student assumes responsibility for the content and integrity of the academic work he/she submits, such as papers, examinations, or reports. A student shall be guilty of violating the Code and subject to proceedings under it if he/she: knowingly represents the work of others as his/her own. uses or obtains unauthorized assistance in any academic work. gives fraudulent assistance to another student. fabricates data in support of laboratory or field work. forges a signature to certify completion or approval of a course assignment. in any other manner violates the principle of absolute integrity. Specific Remarks for Students in CS Courses Unless otherwise specified by the individual professor, the work you do in Computer Science courses is expected to be the result of your individual effort - the use of a computer in no way modifies the normal standards of the above Code. You may discuss work with other students, and give or receive "consulting" help from other students, but such permissible cooperation should never involve one student having in his or her possession a copy of all or part of another student's assignment - regardless of whether that copy is on paper, on a computer disk, or in a computer file. This implies that there is no legitimate reason to send a copy of a program from one computer account to another, or to be logged-on to another student's account. Discussion of general strategy or algorithms is permissible, but you may not collaborate in the detailed development or actual writing of an assignment. It is also your responsibility to protect your work from unauthorized access. It is inadvisable to discard copies of your programs in public places. This applies to both hand-written and programming assignments. The penalty for any violation of this Code in Computer Science courses may be failure in the course. This includes collaboration, providing a copy, or accepting a copy of work that is expected to be individual effort. Computer accounts are provided for course work only. They are not private accounts; they belong to the Department of Computer Science and the use of these accounts will be monitored in various ways. Accounts that are abused will be withdrawn. About Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Values of Inclusion Antiracism Task Force News Research News Department Life Awards Listed by Recipient Listed by Category Oral History of Cornell CS Publications Books by Author Books Chronologically Department Timeline The 60's The 70's The 80's The 90's The 00's The 2010's Job Postings Faculty Positions: Ithaca Faculty Positions: New York City Lecturer Position: Ithaca Post-doc Position: Ithaca Staff/Technical Positions Ugrad Course Staff Ithaca Info Internal info Events Calendar Graduation Information Cornell Tech Colloquium Student Colloquium BOOM CS Colloquium Conway-Walker Lecture Series Salton Lecture Series Seminars / Lectures Spring 2022 Artificial Intelligence Seminar Spring 2022 Theory Seminar Big Red Hacks Cornell University High School Programming Contest Game Design Initiative CSMore: The Rising Sophomore Summer Program in Computer Science Explore CS Research Research Night People Chair Faculty Researchers Staff Ph.D. Students M.S. Students M.Eng. Students Ph.D. Alumni Courses List of Courses Enrollment Exams Course and Room Roster CS Advanced Standing Exam Research Architecture Artificial Intelligence Computational Biology Database Systems Graphics Human Interaction Machine Learning Natural Language Processing Programming Languages Robotics Scientific Computing Security Systems and Networking Theory of Computing Vision Undergraduate Admissions Becoming a CS Major Contact UGrad Office Contact Academic Advisor Your First CS Course CS Major Useful Forms Electives Technical Electives CS with Other Majors/Areas Transfer Credits CS Honors Program CPT for International CS Undergrads Graduation Requirements CS Engineering Requirements CS Arts & Sciences Requirements Graduation Information Minors CS Minor Game Design Minor Career Information Co-op Program Placement Report Undergrad Research Independent Research (CS 4999) Computer Science Undergraduate Research Program (CSURP) UGrad Events Undergraduate Learning Center UGrad Course Staff Info M Eng Admissions Prerequisites The Application Process The Review Process Early M.Eng Credit Approval Financial Aid FAQ Academics Degree Requirements Pre-approved Electives The Project FAQ Current Students The Course Enrollment Process Advising Tips FAQ M.Eng Lab MEng Forms Entrepreneurship Cornell Tech Programs Professional Development Graduation Information Contact MEng Office CS MEng Alumni MS Admissions Applicant FAQ Current Students Degree Requirements MS Degree Checklist MS Student Financial Support Computer Science Graduate Office Hours Exam Scheduling Guidelines Special Committee Selection Diversity and Inclusion Graduation Information Contact MS Office PhD Admissions Ph.D. Applicant FAQ Non-Degree Application Guidelines Graduate Housing Ph. D. Visit Day Current Students Field of Computer Science Ph.D. Student Handbook Ph.D. Requirements Business Card Policy Computer Science Graduate Office Hours Cornell Tech Curricular Practical Training Exam Scheduling Guidelines Fellowship Opportunities Field A Exam Summary Form Graduate School Forms Ph.D. Student Financial Support Special Committee Selection The Outside Minor Requirement Travel Funding Opportunities Diversity and Inclusion Graduation Information CS Graduate Minor Outreach Opportunities Parental Accommodation Policy Special Masters Student Groups Student Spotlights Contact PhD Office NetID Login (internal use only) Contact Us © 2022 Cornell University 402 Gates Hall, Cornell University, Ithaca, NY 14853 Follow us on Twitter Like us on Facebook If you have a disability and are having trouble accessing information on this website or need materials in an alternate format, contact web-accessibility@cornell.edu for assistance.