Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. Equity, Inclusion & Community Impact Inclusion right arrow down arrow About right arrow down arrow Meet The Team CDO Roundtable Diversity Council D&I Resource Liaisons Student Diversity & Inclusion Council Employee Resource Groups Guiding Principles Equity & Inclusion App Feedback Equity & Inclusion right arrow down arrow Community Education & Workshops right arrow down arrow Workshop Request Form Equity & Inclusion Conference right arrow down arrow Call for Concurrent Session Proposals Equity & Inclusion Incentive Grants Marian Spencer Equity Ambassador Award Services right arrow down arrow Services Request Form Equal Opportunity & Access right arrow down arrow Affirmative Action Plan & Equal Employment Opportunity Section 504/ADA Grievance Procedure Complaint Resolution and Consultation Community Education & Workshops right arrow down arrow Equal Opportunity & Access ACADEMY right arrow down arrow Graduate Class of 2021 Inclusive Excellence Workshops The Student Experience right arrow down arrow Semester/Capstone Projects Gender Equity & Inclusion (Title IX) right arrow down arrow Making a Report right arrow down arrow Confidentiality Employee Responsibility Support & Resources right arrow down arrow Supportive Measures Pregnancy and Parenting Resources Responding to Disclosures Resources for Complainants and Respondents Gender Identity Resources Community Education & Training right arrow down arrow Training Request Form Gender and Sexual Diversity Terminology Title IX right arrow down arrow Reporting Options Title IX Sexual Harassment Policy Sex- and/or Gender-Based Misconduct Policy and Procedure Training Materials for UC Title IX Personnel Community Impact right arrow down arrow CPS Strong Make a Gift right arrow down arrow Darwin T. Turner Scholars Program DEI Toolkit Home » About UC » Equity, Inclusion and Community Impact » Gender Equity & Inclusion (Title IX) » Support & Resources » Gender Identity Resources Set Navigation title in component Making a Report Confidentiality Employee Responsibility Support & Resources Supportive Measures Pregnancy and Parenting Resources Responding to Disclosures Resources for Complainants and Respondents Gender Identity Resources Community Education & Training Training Request Form Gender and Sexual Diversity Terminology Title IX Reporting Options Title IX Sexual Harassment Policy Sex- and/or Gender-Based Misconduct Policy and Procedure Training Materials for UC Title IX Personnel Gender Identity Resources Our office can also assist members of our community with supportive measures surrounding gender identity. If you have any questions, need assistance, or are interested in supportive measures that are not covered by the materials below, please feel free to reach out to our office at (513) 556-3349 or ogei@uc.edu. Notice of Non-Discrimination Per UC's Notice of Non-Discrimination, "The university reaffirms its policy that discrimination and harassment on the basis of age, ancestry, color, disability, gender identity and/or expression, genetic information, military status (including veteran status), national origin, race, religion, sex, sexual orientation, parental status (including status as a foster parent), pregnancy, or any other status protected by law (collectively, "protected class") are prohibited in any of its activities, programs, admissions, or employment. Furthermore, where past or present discrimination continues to have an adverse impact upon a protected class, the university will take affirmative action in order to carry out its policy of non-discrimination and equal opportunity for all." Changing Your Name The Office of the Registrar requests notification when there is a legal change of name. Additionally, individuals can update their preferred name if it differs from their legal name. You can request a change to your 6+2 through Identity Management. No evidence of a legal name change is required. Questions About Pronouns Our office is always willing to offer consultations and trainings in collaboration with the LGBTQ+ Center regarding the best gender-inclusive practices. MyPronouns also offers some great introductory information on this topic. For more information on terminology, check out our page on Gender and Sexual Diversity Terminology. Changing Your Sex or Gender Marker UC students can designate their gender identity and pronoun preferences in Catalyst by following these steps: Log in to Catalyst. On the Student Homepage, click the My Profile tile. On the resulting page, under the Personal Information tab, click 'Personal Details.' Click on the Biographic Tab on the right-hand side. Navigate to Gender Expression, and enter your preferences. There should both be a drop-down, and there is a free-form text box in case the information is not listed. Click 'Save.' Staff and faculty can view this information in 'Add/Update a Person' in Catalyst, on a new tab titled 'Personal.' Students may also request a change of the gender marker associated with their records through the Office of the Registrar. Updating Your Bearcat Photo If you are interested in updating the photo associated with your account, you may need to apply for a new Bearcat Card. You can submit your Bearcat Card photo online. Housing Policy The University Housing policy on Gender Inclusive Housing is as follows: "In meeting the needs of the incoming student, University Housing staff will recognize and respect the gender identity the student has established with Housing as part of their housing application. Staff will not ask for any more information than is required to meet the student’s housing needs, and all disclosed information will be kept strictly confidential. In order to provide support for the needs of current and incoming transgender and/or gender non-conforming students, University Housing strongly encourages potential and current residents to contact the Assistant Director of Resident Education & Development, Aleia White, early in the housing request process so that we may offer the widest range of possible housing options. The University Housing staff member will work with the students to find a residence hall space that best meets their needs, factoring gender expression, gender identity, comfortableness in transition and bathroom needs. Room Rates will be consistent with our other undergraduate population living in the residence hall communities." Audre Lorde Social Justice House The Audre Lorde Social Justice House is a gender inclusive community designed for students interested in social justice. Bathrooms There are many single-user restrooms throughout campus. Some are gendered and some are non-gendered or gender neutral. UC's Department of Planning, Designing, and Construction is committed to meeting the diverse needs of UC students and has created a policy that requires any new building at UC to have at least one gender neutral restroom. They also plan to change the signage on all single-user restrooms to make them gender neutral. A list of gender inclusive restrooms is available on the LGBTQ Center's Resource page. For questions about bathrooms in university housing, please see the section 'Housing' above. Reporting Harassment If you would like to make a report regarding sex- or gender-based harassment, we can assist you in Making a Report. A report is not considered a formal complaint, and there is no obligation to file a formal complaint. Our office can still offer supportive measures and resources even without a formal complaint. Please note that all faculty and staff (unless designated otherwise, are mandatory reporters and must report any known incidents of sex- or gender-based harassment. Additional Resources LGBTQ Center The Mission of the LGBTQ Center is as follows: "The LGBTQ Center supports the mission of the University of Cincinnati through a commitment to diversity, equity, leadership development, and intellectual inquiry with particular respect to sexual orientation and gender identity. The Center is an inclusive campus community that welcomes people of all sexual orientations and gender identities and provides support, resources and advocacy. The Center facilitates LGBTQ visibility by promoting and enhancing understanding, acceptance, and awareness regarding LGBTQ issues." The Center also offers monthly Safe Zone Ally and Transgender Inclusive Training workshops, which you can register for through CampusLink. University of Cincinnati 2600 Clifton Ave. Cincinnati Oh 45220 513-556-5000 UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati University of Cincinnati 2600 Clifton Ave. Cincinnati Oh 45220 513-556-5000 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top