Skip to main content Skip to main content Prospective Students Current Students Alumni More Faculty/Staff News Media Parents Skip to main content Apply Apply Give Give Follow Us Follow Us Twitter Follow Us Facebook Follow Us Instagram Follow Us LinkedIn Follow Us YouTube Follow Us Social Stream Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. Navigate Search Skip to main content Campus Recreation Hours-Schedule Member Services Member Services Online Member Portal Online Member Portal Instructions Membership Rates Fees Room Reservations and Events Parking Programs Programs Aquatics Fitness Intramural Sports Outdoor Adventures Sport Clubs Youth Spirit Spirit Band Rotunda Spirit Squads About ☰ Outdoor Adventures-Engage in Experiential Education Our Fall 2022 Activity line up will appear below. Be on the look out! Campus Recreation Programs Outdoor Adventures SMU Outdoor Adventures encourages and offers out of class experiential education which ultimately contributes to student experiences and development during their educational journey at the institution. These combined with academic experiences makes students’ holistic education complete! Outdoor Adventures is a leadership development program within the department of Campus Recreation directed by a full-time professional administrator and ran by student employees. Employment/Development Opportunity Trips and Workshops Fall 2022 Trips and Workshops loading.... SMU Outdoor Adventures (OA) offers classic outdoor recreation programming comprised of recreation trips and outdoor skills workshops. Designed to explore the outdoor recreation opportunities in the area and beyond, trips are offered to suit different interests, activity levels, and time frames. Workshops are short courses to assist you in obtaining skills and experiences to pursue outdoor adventure activities to the next level. Participants must be 18 years of age or older unless specifically stated in the trip/workshop description. How to Sign Up HOW TO REGISTER You can register at the Outdoor Adventure office located at the bottom of the Dedman Recreation Center past the fitness area during regular operating hours. Accepted forms of payment: Credit cards (MasterCard, Visa, or Discover Card only). You can conveniently register online through the online member portal with your SMU credentials. All trips are linked to the portal. Read the Cancellation/Refund Policy. PHONE REGISTRATIONS WITH CREDIT CARDS The Outdoor Adventures office can accept payments with a credit card over the phone. For your protection, only specific Outdoor Adventures personnel may process credit card payments over the phone. If the individual you reach on the phone is not allowed to take your credit card information, please be patient. Leave your name, phone number and time to be reached with the individual. A member of SMU Outdoor Adventures staff will return your call as soon as possible. For any questions please contact the Outdoor Adventures Office at 214-768-9918 or email outdooradventures@smu.edu. Trip Cancellation Outdoor Adventure Activities involve inherent risks. The risks vary depending upon the activity, environment, terrain, time of year, etc. Some risks are manageable while others are not. Dates and locations are subject to change. Get informed by attending the designated pre-trip meeting and discussing with your trip supervisors or Outdoor Adventures staff about potential hazards and conditions expected. TRIP PROCEDURES OA Trip/Workshop participants must be SMU students, faculty, staff, alumni or sponsored guests. Unless noted in the individual trip/workshop description, an SMU participant may sponsor 1 guest. SMU Faculty and staff are not required to be a member of the Dedman Center for Lifetime Sports. Non-SMU guests will be allowed to participate only with sponsorship by an SMU community member accompanying the trip/workshop. Participants must be 18 years of age or older unless specifically stated in the trip/workshop description. Unless specified in the trip/workshop description, Payment is expected at time of registration and may be in the form of cash, check, MasterCard, Visa, or Discover. If deposits are permitted, specific cancellation and payment policies will be stated in the trip/workshop description. Static Norms (applies to all SMU OA sponsored activities/events): Alcohol or illegal drugs may not be consumed, purchased or transported on SMU OA sanctioned activities and events. Prescription drugs should be noted on the Consent for Medical Treatment form and in the name of the person in possession; Behavior deemed harassing and/or threatening to participants, staff or property; Behavior deemed to be in disregard of individual or group safety including refusal to follow staff directives; and Exclusive relationships that are determined to be disruptive or detrimental to an individual(s) or the group. Violation of the above Static Norms may result in but is not limited to: Cancellation of the activity/event; Prohibition or restriction from future SMU OA activities/events; Fines for damages or additional costs associated with violation(s); Referral to Judicial Affairs; and/or Removal of individual(s) from the event/activity at the individual(s) expense. No refunds. No pets. Participants are expected to have personal medical insurance. SMU OA will not be responsible for the costs of medical treatment or emergency response. SMU OA is not responsible for lost, stolen or damaged personal devices or items. If SMU OA provides transportation, personal vehicles or travel will not be allowed or highly discouraged. Personal transportation is an option if not provided or with expressed, WRITTEN approval from SMU OA. All participants must complete related administrative paperwork prior to participation including but not limited to an SMU OA Release of Liability and Consent for Medical Treatment Form, SMU Travel Form, etc. Personal equipment should be approved by OA Trip Staff prior to departure. Unless otherwise stated in the trip description, trip fees include: transportation, food-in-the-field, activity gear and entrance/activity fees. Some personal equipment such as backpacks, sleeping bags, sleeping pads, etc may be available on a first come, first serve basis. Participants are responsible for personal clothing, meals "on-the-road" and personal purchases. CANCELLATION/REFUND Unless otherwise stated in the individual trip description, individuals may cancel up to 1 day after the trips designated pre-trip meeting with a 50% refund. Participants have up to 4 days prior to departure day to cancel with no penalty. After 4 days, the above cancellation policy will be applicable. If SMU OA cancels the trip, a full refund will be issued to all registered participants. Refunds for cash and check transactions will be in the form of a check issued by the University's accounts payable department (this may take several weeks to process). All other refunds will be in the form of the original transaction i.e. credit card to credit card. Trip Ratings All SMU Outdoor Adventures programs are rated for Degree of Difficulty (DD) and Physical Ability (PA). DD is based on the level of skills necessary to participate in the activity, and PA is a rating of physical demands necessary to accomplish the activity. Of course, this is subjective to the individual and is rated on a continuum based on college-aged, adult capabilities. Ratings take into account terrain, altitude, pack weight, weather, etc. The ratings are as follows: Degree of Difficulty (DD) Beginner - No or little skill necessary; environmental/geographical conditions are very manageable. Intermediate - previous experience recommended; some environmental/geographical conditions are manageable but with a degree of challenge. Advanced - proficient in skills and self rescue techniques; increase in risks; environmental conditions are manageable but changing due to terrain, weather, altitude, water levels, etc. Physical Activity (PA) Easy-some physical activity required; average physical conditioning. Moderate-requires above average physical conditioning; lift loads of 30+ pounds up/down terrain. Strenuous-requires good physical conditioning; lift loads of 50+ lbs for varied length of time and distance; steep ascents/descents; ability to perform under physical/mental challenge. For any questions please contact the Outdoor Adventures Office at 214-768-9918 or email outdooradventures@smu.edu. Rental Shop Come visit us in person or Request gear through a reservation: Call 214-768-9918 or email outdooradventures@smu.edu Closed: All major Holidays Summer Hours: 4.00 - 7.00 pm: Monday and Friday CLOSED: *Hours subject to change RENTAL PROCEDURES & EQUIPMENT CARE Please review the Rental Rules prior to picking up your equipment. Reasons why it is better to rent Quantity Restriction: Due to continued problems with late, damaged and missing equipment from group rentals, an individual renter is no longer able to rent for large groups or multiple parties. One individual renter will only be allowed to rent camping equipment for up to 4 people. (Ex: 2 two-person tents; 4 sleeping bags; 1 four-person tent, 4 sleeping bags, etc.) RENTAL CHARGE Credit cards (MasterCard, Visa or Discover Only), cash or checks accepted and an 8.25% tax applies. BACKPACKING/CAMPING Daily Retail Replacement Sleeping Bags $4 $160 Sleeping Pads-Closed Cell Foam $1 $40 Sleeping Pad-Air Mattress $2 $90 4-Person Tent $6 $350 3-Person Tent $5 $320 2-Person Tent $4 $260 1 Person Tent $3 $180 16' Outfitter Tarp $4 $90 Mega Mid/Buga Mid Shelter (4-person) $4 $180 Headlamp $2 $30 Rechargeable LED Lantern $4 $60 Backpack (4200+ cu in): Internal Frame $6 $350 Day Pack (3000 cu in) $3 $100 Boot Gaiters $2 $40 GPS Unit (Garmin Etrex) $2 $100 Men & Women's Rain Gear (Jacket or Pants) $2 $60 Sleeping bag liner $ 2 $20 1 Person Hammock $3 $60 2 Person Hammock $4 $80 Hiking Pole set $2 $80 BIKING Hourly Daily Retail Replacement Mountain Bikes (includes helmet and lock) $3 $15 $700 2 Bike Trunk Carrier $3 $8 $100 COOKING Daily Retail Replacement Backpack Stoves (Includes 1 bottle of fuel) $4 $100 2-Burner Camp Stove (Includes 1 bottle of fuel) $5 $120 Cook set 3-4 people $3 $90 Cook Set 2 People $2 $70 Cook Utensils (Grater, Spatula, Spoon, Colander, Scraper) $1 $11 Dutch Oven Large $6 $60 Dutch Oven Medium $4 $50 Water Filter $2 $80 CLIMBING Daily Retail Replacement Outdoor Climbing Harness $2 $35 Chalk Bag $1 $15 Outdoor Climbing Helmet $2 $75 Outdoor Climbing Shoe $3 $80 Bouldering Crash pad $5 $120-350 WATER Hourly Daily Retail Replacement Stand Up (SUP) Board ( Includes Paddle and PFD) * Vehicle type dependent $2 $15 $749 Canoe (Includes 2 PFDs & 2 Canoe Paddles) *Vehicle type dependent $4 $20 $770 Kayak (Includes 1 PFD, 1 Kayak Paddle, 1 Spray Skirt) *Vehicle type dependent $2 $15 $700-$1400 Tandem Kayak (Includes 2 PFD, 2 Kayak Paddles) *Vehicle type dependent $8 $25 $875 Extra Paddle (Canoe or Kayak) $2 $25 Extra PFD or Life Jacket (XS, S, M, L, XL) Limited Inventory of Child and Junior Sizes -Child (30-50 lbs) / Junior (50-90 lbs) $2 $65 Dry Bag S, M, & L $2 $55 Dry Pack (Large dry bags with shoulder straps) $3 $90 Dry Dock $5 $189 Fly Rod, reel, forceps/scissors and empty fly box $10 $198-350 *The OA Rental Shop reserves the right to deny boat rentals based on type of vehicle used for transporting. Vehicle Guidelines Due to the increase in potential vehicle damage, equipment damage and complications in securing boats to vehicle, a limit of 2 boats per vehicle (based on type/size of boats and vehicle type) will be strictly enforced. The OA Rental Shop will not provide a trailer for boat rentals. The following guidelines are used by the Rental Shop to determine vehicle appropriateness for transporting rental boats: 4+ -door Sedans or wagons Appropriate tie down points under bumpers in front and back Vehicle with added commercial (Thule, Yakima) or factory luggage rack preferred. Truck beds that meet the 5/8 Rule: 5/8 of boat should fit within the truck bed. Canoe=9.5 ft Tandem Kayak=9.5 ft Solo Kayak=8 ft The following vehicle characteristics are NOT recommended for boat transport: Vehicles with 2-3 doors. Vehicles with a sunroof but without a rack. Vehicles with non-removable antenna on roof Trucks requiring the boat to extend over the cab (without the proper rack) PICNIC SUPPLIES Daily Retail Replacement Disk Golf Target Set (1 target/4 disks) $5 $150 Disk Golf Target (qty 3+) $10 $110 Tug-of-War Rope $0 $75 Outdoor Volleyball $5 $200 Cooler $2 $60-$400 Cornhole Sets (2 boards/8 bags) $5 $125 RESOURCE LIBRARY Hourly Daily Retail Replacement Map/Book/Video $1 Varies For any questions please contact the Outdoor Adventures Office at 214-768-9918 or email outdooradventures@smu.edu. Rental Rules FEES Equipment must be picked-up at the OA Rental Shop during staffed operational hours. Late Fee Items are considered late if not returned to OA Rental Shop by closing on due date. Daily rental rate/day/item up to 7 days. After 7 days, see Damaged/Lost Damaged/Lost Equal to repair or retail replacement plus shipping. Dirty/Cleaning Fee $10/item if deemed beyond "normal." RULES To rent equipment from the OA Rental Shop, individuals must have an SMU ID number or Dedman Center member ID number. Staff and Faculty are not required to be members of the Dedman Center for Lifetime Sports. SMU Alumni qualify to rent OA gear. General community and Dedman Center guests are not permitted to rent equipment. The individual signing the Rental Agreement accepts responsibility for the equipment and any fees or charges that may incur. Rentals will be charged on a per day/item fee. A small selection of equipment may be rented by the hour. We do not have the ability to charge to student accounts. Sorry, no American Express, but we do accept MasterCard, Visa and Discover cards If equipment comes back dirty, missing parts or damaged, we will ask you to pay a cleaning fee, repair fee or replacement fee. Failure to do this will lead to your account being put on hold. SMU Outdoor Adventures and the OA Rental Shop make no representation, warranties, or covenants, expressed or implied with respect to the condition, quality, durability, or suitability of the rented equipment and assumes no liability for any bodily injury or damaged property resulting from the use, improper or otherwise, of the rented equipment. AN INDIVIDUAL RENTER MAY ONLY RENT CAMPING EQUIPMENT FOR UP TO 4 PEOPLE (Example: 2- 2 person tents, 4 sleeping bags or 4 person tent, 4 sleeping bags). Due to the large number of negative consequences involving damaged and late equipment returns, and to protect individual renters, the OA Rental Shop will no longer allow one individual to be responsible for "large" quantities of equipment for a group. RESERVATIONS Reservations will be accepted via phone (214-768-9918) or in person at the OA Rental Shop up to 2 weeks in advance of the pickup date. A credit card deposit is required to hold equipment for reservations. Without a credit card deposit, items will not be designated to the individual's reservation and subject to first come, first serve on day of pick-up. Without a reservation, rentals are on a first come, first serve basis and subject to availability. The individual on the reservation must notify the OA Rental Shop if someone other than the individual listed is picking up the equipment. PAYMENT Payment is expected at time of pick-up and can be in the form of cash, check, MasterCard, Visa, or Discover. Outstanding fees not collected via deposit will result in holds placed on the SMU account which prohibits participation in graduation, early registration, access to the Dedman Recreation Center, and future SMU OA activities and programs. Individual picking up the rental will be responsible for paying the rental fees. RETURNS Equipment is to be returned in a clean and operational condition. Items returned soiled, or excessively wet will be charged a Cleaning Fee (see Fees). Rental equipment is to be returned by the due date indicated on the Rental Agreement. If returning rental equipment on the due date after OA Rental Shop operational hours, see a Dedman Facilities Manager on duty at the Dedman Center's Main Desk. Late Fees (see Fees) will be charged for any item not returned to the OA Rental Shop by the due date. REFUNDS Refunds for cash and check transactions will be in the form of a check issued by the University's accounts payable department (this may take several weeks to process). All other refunds will be in the form of the original transaction i.e. credit card to credit card. CANCELLATION Cancellation of a rental reservation the day of pick-up or not showing up to pick up will result in a charge of one daily rental rate/item to the credit card deposit For any questions please contact the Outdoor Adventures Office at 214-768-9918 or email outdooradventures@smu.edu. Rental FAQ Who can use the SMU Outdoor Adventures Rental? Rental equipment is available to SMU students, faculty, staff, alumni, and active Dedman Center members with a valid SMU or Dedman Center ID number. SMU faculty or staff do not have to be a member of the Dedman Center for Lifetime Sports! Can I reserve equipment? Rental equipment is available through the Outdoor Adventures (OA) Rental Shop located in Dedman Recreation Center. You can stop by or call at 214-768-9918. Rental Equipment can be reserved up to 2 weeks in advance. Otherwise, it is a first come, first serve basis based on availability. Payment is expected at time of pick-up. See Rental Rules for more information. Rental fees can be paid in the form of cash, check, MasterCard, Visa, or Discover. See below for more details or go to the Rental Rules tab. Can I rent equipment for others? Rentals are only available to those who meet the criteria above. Renters should be aware that the individual on the reservation and/or rental agreement will be held responsible and accountable for the rental equipment and any additional fees that may be charged. Individuals with a reservation will be required to notify the OA Rental Shop if someone other than the person listed is picking up the rental. In addition, OA Rental Staff will not charge rental fees at time of pick up to the credit card deposit on file. Fees will be the responsibility of the person picking up the rental. Individuals may rent enough equipment for a party of 4. Where and when do I pick up my rentals? Rental Shop operational hours are located here. Rentals must be picked up at the OA Rental Shop during the posted hours of operation. Rentals may be dropped off at the OA Rental Shop during operational hours or outside the posted hours by contacting a Dedman Facility Manager at the main desk. However, the rental will not be considered returned until the beginning of the next business days' operational hours. The person picking up the equipment will be held responsible for payment and the return of equipment in a clean and non-damaged condition. No refunds or pro-rated rental for early drop off. Rentals fees are based on a daily (24 hour) rental rate with a limited inventory of equipment available by the hour. What happens if I cancel? Individuals can cancel reservations up to the day prior to pick-up. No-shows on the day of pick-up will be charged 1-day rental on the credit card deposit for each item. What happens if I return the equipment late or damaged? Renters returning damaged, dirty, or late equipment will be charged a fee (see Rental Rules) to the credit card deposit. The Rental Shop staff will attempt to contact the renter notifying of additional charges and allow an alternative payment if desired. The Damage Fee equals the cost associated with repair to include shipping, labor, repair, and replacement parts. If the equipment is beyond repair or repairs cost more than replacement value, the renter will be charged for RETAIL replacement. A Cleaning Fee will be charged if the equipment is returned dirty or wet beyond "normal." We expect our equipment to get dirty and damp but if cleaning requires excessive amount of time and energy to prepare for the next rental, the fee will apply. Late Fees will incur if equipment is not returned by the contracted date on the rental agreement. The renter will be notified of impending late fees. Late Fees for each item per day will be charged to the credit card deposit for up to 1 week. At that point, the credit card deposit will be charged the retail replacement cost (see above). Must I set up my tent when it is returned? Not usually but sometimes it will be requested especially with any indications that the condition of the return may warrant immediate inspection (disorganized, soaking wet, dirty, etc). As with all items, the tent will be inspected thoroughly for missing parts and any damage. By checking the condition, organizing and air-drying before returning, you can eliminate unnecessary time and energy. What about stove fuel? The Rental Shop will provide fuel with stove rentals. The amount of fuel provided will equal roughly one cannister of propane fuel or 11 oz of white gas fuel for each stove. The renter can purchase additional fuel from the Rental Shop. Be careful purchasing or providing your own fuel. Using the wrong type of fuel or canister can result in damage to the equipment and a potentially dangerous situation. Be sure to inquire at the time of rental. What about batteries? We do not supply batteries! For any questions please contact the Outdoor Adventures Office at 214-768-9918 or email outdooradventures@smu.edu. What kind of equipment is available to rent? Generally speaking, all traditional outdoor, adventure recreation equipment and limited "picnic" items are available. For safety purposes, we do not rent equipment requiring a high level "competency" or skill such as white water kayaks, rock climbing hardware or ropes, rescue equipment, etc. Canoes, Stand up paddle (SUP) boards and recreational kayaks are available but rentals will be subject to the following criteria: *SMU, Department of Recreational Sports, and SMU Outdoor Adventures (Rental Shop) are not responsible for transporting or providing transportation for boats, bikes, etc. * SMU, Department of Recreational Sports, and SMU Outdoor Adventures (Rental Shop) are not responsible for damage to vehicles as a result of loading, unloading or transporting boats, bikes, etc. *SMU Outdoor Adventures (Rental Shop) will provide necessary items to secure rented equipment to vehicles but will not be responsible for loading and securing. Assistance may be available with appropriate coverage of the Rental Shop. *Items for securing rentals to vehicles are considered additional rental equipment. Reasonable items will be provided at no charge but subject to rental equipment policies. Climbing Wall Consisting of the TAOS Tower and HUECO Bouldering Wall, the SMU Climbing Wall provides over 2600 square feet of climbing and is the place for those wanting to get into climbing or for established climbers at SMU. The Center provides supervision, instruction, and indoor climbing equipment rental. The Climbing Wall welcomes all climbing levels with routes designed for different skills and experiences (from beginner to advanced). Look for special climbing events, competitions, and classes. The indoor climbing walls were constructed by EntrePrise USA, Inc, a leading builder of artificial climbing walls in the US, and are composed of their patented Free Form® material to provide the look and feel of real rock. EVENTS & ANNOUNCEMENTS Climbing Tower Summer Hours Open 3.30 pm - 9.00 pm Mon, Tues, and Thurs and Fri. Closed Saturday and Sunday. Tower closed during all major Holidays. Bouldering Wall* - Open during building operation hours* CLOSED: Friday, May 13 *Hours subject to change CLASSES BASICS OF BELAY - Ongoing during operation hours TOP ROPE BELAY SKILLS CHECK AND LEAD CLIMBING SKILLS CHECK- On request with prior arrangement MOVEMENT CLASS- On request with prior arrangement INTRO TO LEAD CLIMBING- On request with prior arrangement For any questions please contact the Climbing Wall at 214-768-9917 or Albert Mitugo at 214 768 4822. Fees CLIMBING Dedman Members (SMU student, faculty, staff and community) includes harness: Free SMU Faculty and staff Dedman Members' immediate minor family members (during family hours): Free Guest with valid belay or lead skills verification: Free Guest Climbing Fee includes harness (in addition to $10 gym entry fee): $5 day/person Minor Climbing Packages: 5 visits for $20 minor, 10 visits for $40 minor Minor Climbing Fee includes harness: $5 day/person Minor Fee (Parent w/ valid Belay or Lead Skills Check): $2 day/person Top Rope Belay Skills Check: $5 person/test Lead Climbing Skills Check (Pre-requisites required): $5 person/test Skills Check Replacement Card: $2 + tax per occurrence RENTALS Climbing Shoes: Free Daily rentals Chalk bag + Chalk: Free CLASSES (Cancellation Rules) Basics Class: $10/person Movement Class: $10/person Intro to Lead (Pre-requisites required): $25/person FACILITATED CLIMBS (Must be staff supervised - 2 weeks advance notice) Basic Rappelling: $10/person SMU group Rental: Contact special events For any questions please contact the Climbing Wall at 214-768-9917. Rules HUECO WALL AND TAOS TOWER The following Climbing Wall guidelines must be followed for safety: Follow posted rules and regulations. Climbing Wall Staff must be present during roped climbing on the Taos Tower. Bouldering on the Hueco Bouldering Wall is at your own risk and available outside Climbing Wall operational hours. Parents of children under the age of 16 using the Climbing Wall must stay in the immediate area. Only appropriate climbing footwear is allowed. NO Sandals. NO Bare feet. NO Boots. Personal hardware, belay devices or ropes may NOT be used at the Climbing Wall. Personal harnesses must be approved by climbing wall staff. Roped climbers will be required to sign a one-time release of liability form and must check in at the Climbing Wall desk. If you need helmets for roped climbing, they are available for check-out with ID. To belay, climbers must obtain an SMU Climbing Wall belay approval card. Belayers must display their approval card on their harness. To lead climb, climbers must have a valid SMU Climbing Wall top-rope belay approval, demonstrate a climbing ability > 5.8 rating, and pass a Lead Climbing skills test. Climbing Wall equipment may not be removed from the Climbing Wall area. Only Climbing Wall staff may remove or place handholds and quickdraws. No private or independent instruction unless approved by SMU Outdoor Adventures. Report any accidents/injuries or equipment/wall damage. Climbing Wall, its staff, SMU Outdoor Adventures program or Department of Recreational Sports will not be responsible for personal items left in the area. Individuals exhibiting inappropriate or unsafe behaviors or fail to comply with the rules/regulations and Climbing Wall policies or directives of Climbing Wall staff may have their access to the Climbing Wall and Dedman Center suspended or revoked. For any questions please contact the Climbing Wall at 214-768-9917 or email amitugo@smu.edu. Apply Visit School Cox School of Business Dedman College of Humanities and Sciences Dedman School of Law Lyle School of Engineering Meadows School of the Arts Moody School of Graduate and Advanced Studies Perkins School of Theology Simmons School of Education and Human Development Explore SMU Magazine Academic Calendar Events Calendar Guildhall Continuing and Professional Education Athletics Employment at SMU Campus Reporting a Bias Incident Report Sexual Misconduct Emergency Preparedness Student Life George W. Bush Presidential Center SMU Libraries Meadows Museum Tate Lecture Series Contact Us Maps and Directions Legal Disclosures © Southern Methodist University, PO Box 750100, Dallas, TX 75275 twitter facebook instagram linkedin youtube share