Skip to main content Skip to main navigation Graduate School Menu About Graduate School Calendar Staff Directory J. Larry Lyon Beth Allison Barr Steve G. Driese Christopher M. Rios Sheila Dooley Sandra B. Harman Anna E. Henderson Tosha A. Hendrickson Eric Hooley Alanna D. Martinez Dana Matthews Alana A. Schaeper Laura Sepanski 2020 Annual Report Admissions COVID-19 Admissions Updates How To Apply Apply Now International: English Proficiency International: Required Documents FAQs Admissions FAQs Admitted Students Additional Information for Admitted International Students Graduate Student Housing Community Moving to Waco Admitted Student FAQs New Graduate Student Orientation 2022 Submitting Test Scores Degrees & Programs Graduate Catalog Baylor Colleges and Schools Benefits & Financial Support Health Insurance Benefits Childbirth & Adoption Short-Term Leave Baylor Funding Opportunities Student Resources Graduate School Deadlines Campus Resources Professional Development All Programs and Workshops On-Campus Research Doctoral Programs On-Campus Master's Programs Online Professional Programs Awards and Funding Opportunities Summer Dissertation Fellowship Doctoral Administrative Fellows Baptist Scholars International Roundtable (BSIR) Baptist College and University Scholars Outstanding Dissertation Award Outstanding Graduate Student Instructor Award Outstanding Graduate Research Award BEAR Grants Travel Awards McNair Doctoral Fellowship Postdoctoral Teaching Fellowship External Funding Resources Dr. Steven G. Driese Outstanding Grant Proposal Award Completing Your Degree Dissertation & Thesis Resources Requirements for Graduation Completing Your Degree FAQs Faculty & Staff Resources General Resources English for Academic Purposes Program GPS Faculty Development Workshops Graduate Council Graduate Curriculum Committee Graduate Faculty Rights and Membership Proposing a New Graduate Degree Search Grad Faculty Graduate Student Payroll Graduate Program Directors GPD Listing Program Director Statement Resources for Directors Recruitment and Admissions Recruiting Funds Slate Log In Baylor>Graduate School>Admissions>FAQs>Admissions FAQs Admissions FAQs Admissions 1. How do I arrange a campus visit? 2. Do you offer online degrees? 3. I've forgotten my password. What should I do? 4. I am having technical problems paying my application fee. What's wrong? 5. I'm getting an error message. What should I do? 6. When is my application deadline? 7. What is the application fee? Can it be waived? 8. Does the Graduate School offer any financial aid? 9. How much does graduate school at Baylor cost? 10. Where can I go for financial aid outside of Baylor University? 11. What is Baylor University's (CEEB) code for testing? 12. What is the average GMAT or GRE score for a person accepted into Graduate School? 13. Do I have to take the GRE or GMAT? Which one is preferred? 14. Do I need to take the TOEFL/IELTS? 15. May I submit my application if I have not yet taken the GRE, GMAT and/or TOEFL/IELTS? 16. Where should I send my official transcripts? 17. I'm a current Baylor student and I am applying for a graduate program. Do I still need to provide a transcript? 18. I earned a three-year degree. Do I qualify for admission? 19. When will I know if I am admitted? 20. How long do I have to respond to my offer of admission? 21. I applied and my application was declined. I would like to reapply for an upcoming semester. What do I need to do? 22. I earned a graduate degree from Baylor University and would like to take more courses. What do I need to do? 23. I am a current graduate student at another university and would like to take a couple of graduate courses at Baylor University to transfer to my institution. What do I need to do? 24. I am currently a graduate student at another institution. Can I transfer to a graduate program at Baylor University? 25. I am interested in taking graduate courses, but I have never attended Baylor and I do not want to earn a degree. What do I need to do? 26. I applied for one program, but I want to switch to a different program. I've not received notice of an admissions decision on my application. What should I do? 27. How do I defer my application to a later term, or move it up to an earlier term? I've not yet received notification of an admissions decision. For example: I applied to Spring, but I want to change that to Fall. 28. How long do you keep my supporting documents on file? Admissions 1. How do I arrange a campus visit? If you would like to visit with a particular graduate program, contact the department's Graduate Program Director (GPD) to schedule an appointment. You can see a list of Graduate School programs on our Degrees and Programs page. Please note that Truett Seminary and Baylor Law School conduct their own admissions independent of the Graduate School. If you would like a general campus tour, please contact us at GraduateAdmissions@baylor.edu or 254-710-3588 to set up a campus visit. The Weithorn Visitors Center also provides general and undergraduate campus tours. 2. Do you offer online degrees? Baylor has a growing number of professional online programs. Click here for the most up-to-date list of available programs. 3. I've forgotten my password. What should I do? Contact the Baylor Help Desk at 254-710-4357 or helpdesk@baylor.edu. The Help Desk operates 8 AM - 5 PM CST, Monday through Friday. 4. I am having technical problems paying my application fee. What's wrong? The 2 most common solutions to application fee payment errors are browser-related issues (Google Chrome works best) and a mis-match on the billing address entered at payment versus the one on record with the credit card company. If the problem continues, please call us at 254-710-3588, 8 AM - 5PM CST Monday through Friday. 5. I'm getting an error message. What should I do? Any questions or problems with your online application (except for password reset) should be emailed to GraduateAdmissions@baylor.edu or call us at 254-710-3588. Please include the entire error message, a screen shot of the error message and/or the steps you were doing when the error occurred. Please be sure to include your full name and the email address used in your application. These "clues" will help us resolve your problem more quickly. For password issues, contact the Baylor Help Desk at 254-710-4357. For payment problems, please be sure you are using Google Chrome as your browser. 6. When is my application deadline? Please contact the department you are applying to in order to confirm their final application deadline and whether they review late applications. Deadlines vary by program. Some departments have very strict deadlines, while others admit on a rolling basis. You can also find deadlines on our Degrees & Programs page. Online applications must be submitted by 10:59 PM Central Standard Time in order to be considered received on that date. 7. What is the application fee? Can it be waived? Baylor University Graduate School charges a $50 application fee that is required. Programs using a professional organization's common application system (CAS) will have additional costs from the CAS. The $50 Baylor fee is waived for active or retired U.S. military and McNair Scholars. 8. Does the Graduate School offer any financial aid? At the graduate level, financial aid from Baylor University is awarded by each department, generally in the form of tuition remission or a stipend, and often related to a Graduate Assistantship with specific duties. Some non-academic departments may offer Graduate Assistant positions. For specific information regarding eligibility and opportunities for an assistantship, contact the Graduate Program Director of the program to which you are applying. 9. How much does graduate school at Baylor cost? See Tuition & Fees on the Baylor University Student Financial Services page for the most up-to-date information. The Cost of Attendance link will give you estimates that include housing, dining plans, and other personal expenses. 10. Where can I go for financial aid outside of Baylor University? For options such as federal loans, private loans, and work-study, go to the Baylor Student Financial Services web page, contact the Student Financial Aid office online, or by phone at 254-710-2611 [toll free 1-800-BAYLOR-U, option 8, 2]. A popular website for searching for external funding sources is UCLA GRAPES 11. What is Baylor University's (CEEB) code for testing? The CEEB code for Baylor University is 6032. For more information on testing, see our Submitting Test Scores page. 12. What is the average GMAT or GRE score for a person accepted into Graduate School? Your prospective Graduate Program Director can tell you what the department you are interested in applying to considers to be a competitive GRE score. There is not a minimum score that must be obtained. 13. Do I have to take the GRE or GMAT? Which one is preferred? Some programs do not require the GRE / GMAT, or prefer one over the other. Confirm with your program what tests they prefer. You can also see a list at the Graduate School Testing Information page. 14. Do I need to take the TOEFL/IELTS? All international applicants must take the TOEFL/IELTS unless qualified for an English proficiency waiver. See here for more information. U.S. citizens (including Puerto Rico) do not need to take any English proficiency exams. 15. May I submit my application if I have not yet taken the GRE, GMAT and/or TOEFL/IELTS? Yes. However, your application is not complete and cannot be officially reviewed until we receive the test score reports. If your scores will be arriving past the submission deadline, you may contact your prospective program director to find out if their program is willing to review an incomplete application. 16. Where should I send my official transcripts? Electronically, send to Grad_Transcripts@baylor.edu. Paper copies can be sent by mail to: Baylor University Graduate Admissions One Bear Place #97264 Waco, TX 76798-7264. 17. I'm a current Baylor student and I am applying for a graduate program. Do I still need to provide a transcript? Yes, please request that Baylor's Office of the Registrar send a transcript to Baylor Graduate Admissions. You can order online or call 254-710-1181 or email Registrar@baylor.edu. 18. I earned a three-year degree. Do I qualify for admission? In some countries a three-year bachelor's and a two-year master's from recognized institutions are equivalent to a U.S. Bachelor's degree. World Education Services can provide a credential evaluation that compares international degrees to their U.S. equivalency. More Information: https://www.wes.org/ 19. When will I know if I am admitted? Please check with the department to which you applied to find out their expected decision release date. Each department has a different timeline for reviewing applications and making admission decisions. 20. How long do I have to respond to my offer of admission? Confirm with your Graduate Program Director or admissions counselor. Some professional programs have a seat deposit requirement, which typically must be paid within 5 business days of the offer in order to guarantee your spot. Some programs are flexible, but appreciate an answer as quickly as possible, in order to progress with future plans, or, in the event you decline Baylor's offer, to open up spots for other candidates. For fall applications, Baylor University is a member of the Council of Graduate Schools (CGS), which means that Baylor abides by the CGS Resolution "Resolution Regarding Graduate Scholars, Fellows, Trainees and Assistants," which gives you until April 15 to make your decision. If you are matriculating in the summer term, your program may request a decision prior to April 15. 21. I applied and my application was declined. I would like to reapply for an upcoming semester. What do I need to do? 1) We strongly suggest discussing with the Graduate Program Director how to strengthen your application. 2) Submit a new online application, paying a new application fee. 3) Submit any new or relevant updated materials (letters of recommendation, transcripts, test scores, etc.). 4) If there are items from your declined application that you wish to use for your new application, please send an email to GraduateAdmissions@baylor.edu after you have submitted a new application. The email should include your full name, degree and program you are applying to, the enrollment semester, and a detailed description of the items you would like us to re-use. Please keep in mind that materials are only held for two years, and then they are destroyed. 22. I earned a graduate degree from Baylor University and would like to take more courses. What do I need to do? To take additional courses within the department from which you graduated, you will need to submit a Re-enrollment Application, available from the Graduate Admissions office. You will be classified as a non-degree re-enrollment. To take courses from an area outside your original department, you will need to start a new application to the program in which you are interested. Choose the non-degree option (unless you are wanting to complete that entire degree program). If you have attended another institution since graduating from Baylor, an official transcript must be received from that institution before your re-enrollment can be completed. 23. I am a current graduate student at another university and would like to take a couple of graduate courses at Baylor University to transfer to my institution. What do I need to do? You can apply as a "transfer of credit" applicant. To do this, submit a Transfer of Credit application, a $25 non-refundable application fee, and a letter of good standing from the home institution's Registrar. Also, a Baylor Health Form must be completed and submitted to Baylor Health Services. To obtain the Transfer of Credit Application, please contact the Graduate Admissions office at GraduateAdmissions@baylor.edu. If admitted you will have transient status with Baylor University, which is non-degree status. 24. I am currently a graduate student at another institution. Can I transfer to a graduate program at Baylor University? All incoming students must go through the regular application process. If offered admission, a transferring student can file a Graduate School Petition requesting that courses previously taken at another institution be accepted for Baylor University credit. This petition requires the approval of the Graduate Program Director, who also decides how the transfer credits are assigned (whether they are equivalent to BU courses, whether they count toward degree requirements, etc.). In addition, The Graduate School policies on Transfer Credit as listed in the current Graduate Catalog must be followed. This includes: course work must carry a grade of "B" or better (BU does not accept P/F or certificates of completion); course work must be from an accredited university and appear on a graduate transcript; course work must have been taken within 5 years of matriculation; and credits toward extension, workshops, thesis or dissertation hours are not transferable. We strongly recommend that you contact the Graduate Program Director to discuss how previous work would transfer before beginning an application. 25. I am interested in taking graduate courses, but I have never attended Baylor and I do not want to earn a degree. What do I need to do? You can apply using the online application and selecting the non-degree option. The application requirements are the same for non-degree applicants and degree-seeking applicants. 26. I applied for one program, but I want to switch to a different program. I've not received notice of an admissions decision on my application. What should I do? If your application is incomplete or currently being reviewed, and you would like to change the degree and/or program you are applying to, please send an email to Graduate Admissions. Please tell us your full name, the semester you are applying to, the degree and program your application was originally for, and the degree and program to which you'd like to change your application. 27. How do I defer my application to a later term, or move it up to an earlier term? I've not yet received notification of an admissions decision. For example: I applied to Spring, but I want to change that to Fall. 1) Find out if the program you applied to enrolls new students in the semester to which you'd like to defer. 2) Send an email to GraduateAdmissions@baylor.edu and detail your full name, the degree and program to which you are applying, the semester your application was for originally, and the semester to which you'd like to defer. 3) If applicable, send any final or updated transcripts to Graduate Admissions. It is important to note that you can only defer two times or up to 1 year, whichever comes first, or you have to reapply. 28. How long do you keep my supporting documents on file? Paper documents including transcripts, test scores, letters of recommendation, and resumes will be held for two years, after which point they will be destroyed. Electronic records are also stored for two years. BACK TO TOP Admissions COVID-19 Admissions Updates How To Apply Apply Now International: English Proficiency International: Required Documents FAQs Admissions FAQs Admitted Students Additional Information for Admitted International Students Graduate Student Housing Community Browning Square The Quadrangle Moving to Waco Admitted Student FAQs New Graduate Student Orientation 2022 Submitting Test Scores Baylor Graduate School Baylor Graduate School Morrison Hall, Suite 200 One Bear Place #97264 Waco, TX 76798-7264 (254) 710-3588 (254) 710-3870 GraduateAdmissions@baylor.edu Live Chat ApplyVisitMake a Gift General Information Colleges, Schools, Libraries & Research Admissions Administration Gateways For... About Baylor Anonymous Reporting Athletics Ask Baylor Bookstore Calendar Campus Map Directory Give Light Give to Baylor Illuminate Mental Health Resources News Pro Futuris Report It Search Social Media Title IX Baylor Libraries College of Arts & Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work George W. Truett Theological Seminary Graduate School Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Louise Herrington School of Nursing Research at Baylor University Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Engineering & Computer Science School of Music More Academics Undergraduate Admissions goBAYLOR Graduate Admissions Baylor Law School Admissions Social Work Graduate Programs George W. Truett Theological Seminary Admissions Online Graduate Professional Education Virtual Tour Visit Campus Annual Fire Safety and Security Notice Athletics Human Resources Marketing and Communications Office of General Counsel Office of the President Office of the Provost Operations, Finance & Administration Senior Administration Student Life University Advancement Baylor Alumni Faculty & Staff Online Graduate Professional Education Parents Prospective Faculty & Staff Prospective Students Students Copyright © Baylor® University. All rights reserved. Legal Disclosures. Baylor University • Waco, Texas 76798 • 1-800-229-5678 About Graduate School Calendar Staff Directory J. Larry Lyon Beth Allison Barr Steve G. Driese Christopher M. Rios Sheila Dooley Sandra B. Harman Anna E. Henderson Tosha A. Hendrickson Eric Hooley Alanna D. Martinez Dana Matthews Alana A. Schaeper Laura Sepanski 2020 Annual Report Admissions COVID-19 Admissions Updates How To Apply Apply Now International: English Proficiency International: Required Documents FAQs Admissions FAQs Admitted Students Additional Information for Admitted International Students Graduate Student Housing Community Moving to Waco Admitted Student FAQs New Graduate Student Orientation 2022 Submitting Test Scores Degrees & Programs Graduate Catalog Baylor Colleges and Schools Benefits & Financial Support Health Insurance Benefits Childbirth & Adoption Short-Term Leave Baylor Funding Opportunities Student Resources Graduate School Deadlines Campus Resources Professional Development All Programs and Workshops On-Campus Research Doctoral Programs On-Campus Master's Programs Online Professional Programs Awards and Funding Opportunities Summer Dissertation Fellowship Doctoral Administrative Fellows Baptist Scholars International Roundtable (BSIR) Baptist College and University Scholars Outstanding Dissertation Award Outstanding Graduate Student Instructor Award Outstanding Graduate Research Award BEAR Grants Travel Awards McNair Doctoral Fellowship Postdoctoral Teaching Fellowship External Funding Resources Dr. Steven G. Driese Outstanding Grant Proposal Award Completing Your Degree Dissertation & Thesis Resources Requirements for Graduation Completing Your Degree FAQs Faculty & Staff Resources General Resources English for Academic Purposes Program GPS Faculty Development Workshops Graduate Council Graduate Curriculum Committee Graduate Faculty Rights and Membership Proposing a New Graduate Degree Search Grad Faculty Graduate Student Payroll Graduate Program Directors GPD Listing Program Director Statement Resources for Directors Recruitment and Admissions Recruiting Funds Slate Log In