Skip to main content Skip to main navigation Counseling Center Menu COVID-19 About Us Confidentiality Contact Us Feedback BUCC Mission Statement Diversity Vision Statement Diversity Meet the Staff Notice of Non-Discrimination Our Interns and Graduate Trainees Records Request Where are we located? POTH Policy Counseling Services Response to Serving Students During the Pandemic Services Baylor Telehealth by Academic Live Care Get Started Here Clinical Services Addictive Behavior Services Are you in crisis? Care Management Services Groups LOTUS Medical Nutrition Services Additional Information about Regina Mastin Office Hours Program of Care Scope of Service Initial Assessments Outreach Around the Table Active Minds at Baylor Outreach Request Form APA Accredited Doctoral Internship Program Letter from the Training Director Adaptation and Flexibility in the APA Internship Program related to COVID-19 APA Accreditation Overview of the APA-Accredited Internship RCT Framework for Training and Supervision Trauma Recovery Supervision Group (TRSG) Diversity Outreach Partnership (DOP) Our Commitment to Diversity Working at a Faith-Based Christian University Application Information & Selection Process Baylor University Our Counseling Center Stipend, Benefits, and Other Resources Internship Admissions, Support, and Initial Placement Data Current and Past Interns Waco & The Heart of Texas Contact Us Maintaining Mental Health Baylor>Counseling Center>APA Accredited Doctoral Internship Program>Our Counseling Center Our Counseling Center Who We Are The Counseling Center staff strive to be a transformative presence in the lives of our students, as well as with training our interns. We are a multidisciplinary staff, including over 20 clinically trained professionals, including psychologists / postdoc fellows, Licensed Clinical Social Workers (LCSW), Licensed Marriage and Family Therapists (LMFT), Licensed Professional Counselors (LPC), and a Registered Dietician. Our staff have also received extensive trainings in many focused areas that include trauma and sexual assault, drug and alcohol concerns, other addictive behaviors, dialectical behavior therapy, eating disorders, crisis intervention and many more. We are highly invested in our role as a training facility. In addition to our internship, we have had a strong psychology doctoral practicum program for several decades and currently take 4 students a year. We also have social work and masters in counseling interns every year. Facilities The Baylor Counseling Center is housed in 2 locations on campus. Our original site is called “Baylor Counseling Center – SLC”. It is located on the 2nd floor of the McLane Student Life Center (SLC), adjacent to the Health Center and the Wellness Office. This central location on campus, being surrounded by recreational equipment and activities, and being next to the Health Center, has been a positive experience for us, and how students may think about mental health. The close proximity with the Student Health Center facilitates the referral process between medical staff, psychiatry, and counselors. This part of the Counseling Center completed renovations in January 2016, resulting in a more efficient use of space, more offices, and a more efficient waiting area. We have a conference room, where staff meetings and committee meetings can be held, that also serves as a group therapy room. We share a small kitchenette with the nearby Student Health Center. Our additional location is called “Baylor Counseling Center – Dutton”. It is located on the corner of Dutton Street and University Parks, adjacent to both student housing and the Truett Seminary, and across the street from the Law School. This space was specifically renovated for our counseling center needs and was completed in January 2017. It is the larger of the 2 facilities and houses a large waiting area, a large conference/meeting room, 2 other meeting rooms for group therapy and providing intern and practicum trainings, a room for our Mind/Body Lab, a large break room, and many clinician offices to accommodate our expansion of staff. All of the interns will have offices at the Counseling Center – Dutton location, near the Training Director’s office. Program of Care To effectively fulfill its mission, the Baylor University Counseling Center is equipped to provide assistance for a vast array of student concerns. Staff counselors, including psychologists, social workers, marriage / family therapists, professional counselors, and a registered dietitian provide a range of services in our program of care to address student’s unique needs and concerns: Initial Assessment Clinic: The Initial Assessment Clinic is the point of entry for every student who comes to the Counseling Center for the first time. Outreach: All of our staff contribute to psychoeducational events. We are intentional about getting out on campus and having a presence that supports students and familiarizes them with our services. Outreach programming focuses on reducing mental health stigma on campus and providing education on topics relevant to all Baylor students, such as stress management and suicide prevention. Consultation Services: The Counseling Center staff offers strategies for connecting a student with the Counseling Center or another support service. Workshops: The Counseling Center provides various workshops to address issues that college students often experience. Therapist Assisted Online (TAO): This model of therapy is based on online interactive modules that provide skills and strategies a student can practice during the week while a counselor monitors progress and meets with the student weekly through a secure video conferencing tool. Crisis Management: Students in crisis can walk into the office to be seen by a counselor who will assess the level of urgency and provide crisis intervention. During non-business hours and weekends, students can call the Counseling Center (254) 710-2467 and reach the 24/7 answering service, which will connect them quickly to the on-call counselor. Group Therapy: The many types of group therapy all share the commonality of people coming together, under the leadership of a trained facilitator, to work on improving their lives in one way or another. Group therapy can be as powerful and impactful as individual counseling, or more so. Individual: Individual therapy involves meeting one-on-one with a counselor to address specific concerns. Transition of Care: For students requiring a transition of care, the Care Planning Team explains the process and partners with the student to help find a community psychiatrist, therapist or other services to best fit his or her needs. How the Internship Fits In Our vision for the Doctoral Internship in Health Service Psychology is to develop psychologists with the conceptual and clinical competencies necessary to deliver psychological services in a manner that is effective and responsive to individual and societal needs, both now and in the future. The mission, philosophy, training program, and service delivery opportunities at the Baylor Counseling Center make it a great place for interns to grow in 3 general areas: 1) developing core clinical skills to be a transformative presence, 2) developing a multicultural competence and respect for diversity, and 3) developing professional identities as psychologists and as future leaders in the field. APA Accredited Doctoral Internship Program Letter from the Training Director Adaptation and Flexibility in the APA Internship Program related to COVID-19 APA Accreditation Overview of the APA-Accredited Internship RCT Framework for Training and Supervision Trauma Recovery Supervision Group (TRSG) Diversity Outreach Partnership (DOP) Our Commitment to Diversity Working at a Faith-Based Christian University Application Information & Selection Process Baylor University Our Counseling Center Stipend, Benefits, and Other Resources Internship Admissions, Support, and Initial Placement Data Current and Past Interns Waco & The Heart of Texas Contact Us Visit Us McLane Student Life Center, 2nd Floor 209 Speight Ave Waco, TX 76706 Contact Us 254.710.2467 Counseling_Center@baylor.edu Show More General Information Colleges, Schools, Libraries & Research Admissions Administration Gateways For... About Baylor Anonymous Reporting Athletics Ask Baylor Bookstore Calendar Campus Map Directory Give Light Give to Baylor Illuminate Mental Health Resources News Pro Futuris Report It Search Social Media Title IX Baylor Libraries College of Arts & Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work George W. Truett Theological Seminary Graduate School Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Louise Herrington School of Nursing Research at Baylor University Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Engineering & Computer Science School of Music More Academics Undergraduate Admissions goBAYLOR Graduate Admissions Baylor Law School Admissions Social Work Graduate Programs George W. Truett Theological Seminary Admissions Online Graduate Professional Education Virtual Tour Visit Campus Annual Fire Safety and Security Notice Athletics Human Resources Marketing and Communications Office of General Counsel Office of the President Office of the Provost Operations, Finance & Administration Senior Administration Student Life University Advancement Baylor Alumni Faculty & Staff Online Graduate Professional Education Parents Prospective Faculty & Staff Prospective Students Students Counseling Center Facebook Pinterest Twitter Copyright © Baylor® University. All rights reserved. Legal Disclosures. Baylor University • Waco, Texas 76798 • 1-800-229-5678 COVID-19 About Us Confidentiality Contact Us Feedback BUCC Mission Statement Diversity Vision Statement Diversity Meet the Staff Notice of Non-Discrimination Our Interns and Graduate Trainees Records Request Where are we located? POTH Policy Counseling Services Response to Serving Students During the Pandemic Services Baylor Telehealth by Academic Live Care Get Started Here Clinical Services Addictive Behavior Services Are you in crisis? Care Management Services Groups LOTUS Medical Nutrition Services Additional Information about Regina Mastin Office Hours Program of Care Scope of Service Initial Assessments Outreach Around the Table Active Minds at Baylor Outreach Request Form APA Accredited Doctoral Internship Program Letter from the Training Director Adaptation and Flexibility in the APA Internship Program related to COVID-19 APA Accreditation Overview of the APA-Accredited Internship RCT Framework for Training and Supervision Trauma Recovery Supervision Group (TRSG) Diversity Outreach Partnership (DOP) Our Commitment to Diversity Working at a Faith-Based Christian University Application Information & Selection Process Baylor University Our Counseling Center Stipend, Benefits, and Other Resources Internship Admissions, Support, and Initial Placement Data Current and Past Interns Waco & The Heart of Texas Contact Us Maintaining Mental Health