Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Department of English Undergraduate Graduate People Internships News/Events Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact Graduate Students How to Apply MA Writing and RhetoricTESOLApplied LinguisticsLiteratureTechnical Communication MFA Creative WritingFAQ PhD Applied LinguisticsWriting, Rhetoric, and Technical CommunicationLiterary and Cultural Studies Certificate African American LiteratureTeaching English to Speakers of Other LanguagesWriting Studies Online Degree Programs Advising Financial Aid and Scholarships Graduate Courses Two-Year Template 2022-2024Graduate Course Descriptions Organizations UM English Graduate Organization Forms UofM Graduate Online FormsEnglish Teaching/Graduate Assistantship ApplicationGraduate Advising WorksheetGraduate Independent Study FormThesis Hour Registration and Prospectus FormDissertation Hour Registration Form Graduate Catalog Take Action Apply Now Alumni and Friends Course Offerings Contact Us Follow Us Online Facebooktwitter Home Department of English Graduate Students Thesis Guidelines Thesis Guidelines The guidelines below are presented for both faculty and students as a suggested set of procedures to help clarify how a student can begin and then complete a thesis. Please note that, in general, the responsibility for contacting faculty, completing forms, preparing the manuscript to specifications, and meeting published deadlines established by the Department of English and the Graduate School falls on the shoulders of the student. 1. Students should meet with their thesis director to discuss their plans at least two semesters before they plan to graduate. Students then must write a Thesis Prospectus outlining the project and fill out the Thesis Hour Registration Form for consideration. This form will require the signature of the student's thesis director, the Director of Graduate Studies and the Department Chair. These forms and the completed Prospectus are submitted to the Graduate Office in Patterson 461. 2. Students may register for thesis hours as many times as needed in order to finish the thesis, but only 3 hours will count toward the M.A. or MFA degree. The Thesis Hour Registration form should be submitted each semester a student needs to register for thesis hours, however, the Thesis Prospectus only needs to be included the first time a student registers for thesis hours. 3. The first draft of the thesis should be in the hands of the thesis director at the end of the semester before the student is graduating. The number of chapters and pages required should be discussed with the thesis director. 4. Early in the semester in which the student intends to graduate, he or she must complete the paperwork required for graduation. This includes the Intent to Graduate Card and the appropriate Candidacy Form found on the Graduate School Forms website. Keep in mind that the responsibility for meeting deadlines falls to the student. Consult the Graduate School webpage for deadlines. 5. In consultation with the thesis director and committee members, the student will schedule a thesis defense including date, time, and location. Students will work with the thesis director to advertise the defense and notify the Department main office to add the defense to the department calendar. The date for the defense should be scheduled well in advance of the published completion deadline set by the Graduate School. 6. No less than three weeks before the defense, the student must receive the director's preliminary approval for the thesis to be given to the second and third readers. 7. Two weeks before the defense, the student will submit a "perfect draft" of the thesis to two readers who will read carefully to catch any remaining errors in content, logic, organization, or mechanics. 8. When it comes time for the defense, the student should fill out and print the Thesis Final Defense Results form. When the defense has been concluded, the committee will sign the form indicating pass or fail. The form and a defended paper copy of the thesis should then be submitted to the Graduate School well in advance of the deadline. A photocopy of the signed Thesis Final Defense Results form should also be submitted to the English Graduate Office. 9. Once the thesis director and committee approve the final version of the thesis with all requested revisions, the student must submit an electronic copy to the Graduate School before the deadline. Directions for submission and a Preparation Guide can be found on the Graduate School page at the Thesis/Dissertation Guide. 10. Students must also fill out the Thesis Approval Form found on the Graduate School webpage, obtain the necessary signatures and submit the form to the Graduate School well in advance of the published deadline. Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 2/2/22 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.