Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Apply Programs Campus Life Resources News Support UofM Lambuth Contact Us Follow UsFacebooktwitter Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact Home UofM Lambuth Resources Resources Academic and Library Advising Counseling Services Crisis Resources ClothingEmergency FoodEmergency FundsEmergency HousingEmergency Mental HealthFinancial Literacy Health Care ServicesLegal ServicesNew and Expectant ParentsTransportation Disability Resources Employment Career ServicesStudent EmploymentWork at UofM Lambuth Police Services Technology Resources Testing Center Take Action Lambuth Admissions Lambuth Academy News & Events Contact Us Student Services at UofM Lambuth We're here for you. At UofM Lambuth, we take pride in putting our students first. You will find important resources here to help you be successful and make the most of your college experience. Academic/Library Library Completing research? Need a book? Stop by the Luther L. Gobbel Library or access the online resources > Tutoring @ ESP FREE academic assistance is available for students who are currently taking classes at UofM Lambuth. Learn more about the Educational Support Program > Bookstore Stop by the bookstore on campus, located in Wilder Student Union, or shop online to find textbooks, apparel, gifts, supplies and more! Not sure what books you need for class? Enter your upcoming classes to review course materials needed. Career Services Educating, engaging and empowering the UofM community, Career Services works with students during all phases of the career development process and offers numerous resources during your career search. Learn about our Career Services Program > Counseling Services Everyone needs to talk sometimes. It's okay to get help. All of our services are confidential and most are available free of charge for currently enrolled students. Learn more about the Counseling Center > Crisis Resources When you're trying to balance schoolwork and the real world, sometimes even the smallest thing can feel like a crisis. And life often doesn't go according to plan. Our students are our priority, and we're here to help. Whether you need emergency housing or just a little assistance getting to school, you can use the access these resources to help get you out of a jam or back on track to finishing your degree. See available crisis resources > Disability Resources At UofM Lambuth, please contact Jennifer Murchison (jmurchis@memphis.edu), Wilder Student Union, Room 4H, or call 731.425.1906. The UofM Disability Resources website has additional information. Police Services Our emergency number is 731.425.1942. For non-emergency questions or concerns related to the Lambuth Campus, please email us at lambuthpolice@memphis.edu. View additional police services resources > Technology Receive campus alerts through the LiveSafe app and take advantage of the numerous technical resources available through Information Technology Services. Access UMTech >> Testing Center The Testing Center at UofM Lambuth is proud to announce our reopening. View a list of our available services >> Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 3/15/22 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.