Skip to main content SMU Explore SMU Academics Student Affairs About News Events Calendar SMU Research Bush Center Current Students Alumni Faculty & Staff Apply to SMUGIVE NOW Undergraduate Admission Apply Visit Financial Aid Menu Search Undergraduate Admission Financial Aid FAQs FAQs Financial Aid Cost of Attendance Types of Aid Access SMU Financial Aid Process Payment Plan Options SMU Net Price Calculator Mustang Scholars North Dallas High School En Español Contact Us Deadlines FAQs FAQs | Financial Aid FAQs | Tuition, Fees, and Deadlines Scholarships and Assistance Our financial aid advisors can answer questions and help guide you through the financial aid process. Call us at 214-768-2058 or 1-800-323-0672 or email ugadmission@smu.edu. How do I apply for academic scholarships? Submit your application for admission by January 15. To be considered for the Hunt Leadership Scholarship, you also must submit an additional essay as outlined at smu.edu/hunt. Who is eligible for academic scholarships and financial aid? All applicants are considered automatically for academic scholarships. U.S. and dual citizens and permanent residents who submit the FAFSA and CSS PROFILE® are considered for need-based financial aid. The FAFSA will be used to determine federal and state aid eligibility, such as Pell Grant, Federal Direct Loans and Work Study. The CSS PROFILE® will be used to determine eligibility for SMU need based aid. Will I have a financial aid advisor at SMU? SMU assigns a financial aid advisor to each student. When do I apply for financial aid? Simply submit two forms by your chosen application deadline: November 1 for Early Decision I and Early action or January 15 for Early Decision II or Regular Decision.These are priority deadlines. Both forms will be available October 1, 2017. 1. The Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) for federal and state aid U.S. and dual citizens and permanent residents seeking eligibility for federal and state sources of aid must submit the FAFSA each year. Visit fafsa.gov to file the FAFSA. Use SMU school code 003613. 2. The CSS PROFILE® for institutional aid For SMU opportunity grants, you must submit a CSS PROFILE® financial application each year. This will give our financial aid advisors more information to further assess your financial need. There is a $25 cost for completing the CSS PROFILE®. Visit cssprofile.org to file the CSS PROFILE®. Use SMU school code 6660. How does SMU determine the amount of financial assistance? FAFSA and CSS PROFILE® information is sent to SMU, which compares the cost of attending SMU with the family’s ability to contribute to the cost. The FAFSA will be used to determine federal and state aid eligibility, such as Pell Grant, Federal Direct Loans and Work Study. The CSS PROFILE® will be used to determine eligibility for SMU need based aid. When will I receive my award notification? Most academic scholarships are awarded at the time of admission. For need-based awards, SMU must receive and review your FAFSA and CSS PROFILE® before your awards can be determined. What if I receive an off-campus scholarship? Let your financial aid advisor know of any expected scholarships from outside sources. Receipt of off-campus funding might affect your financial aid package by first reducing any need-based loans and/or work-study. How do I accept my financial aid awards? Submit your enrollment deposit, and then go online to accept or decline any specific awards. Apply NowVisit Us Back to top Academics Cox School of Business Dedman College of Humanities and Science Dedman School of Law Lyle School of Engineering Meadows School of the Arts Moody School of Graduate and Advanced Studies Perkins School of Theology Simmons School of Education & Human Development SMU CAPE SMU Libraries The Guildhall Audience Links Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Alumni Faculty & Staff Media Parents Quick Links SMU Ignited: Boldly Shaping Tomorrow COVID-19 Information (Mustang Strong) Bush Center SMU Store Academic Calendar Events Calendar Employment Giving to SMU Virtual Tour Get in Touch Contact Us Maps Directions Compliance Legal Disclosures Report Sexual Harassment Reporting a BIAS Incident HEERF Reporting Emergency Preparedness Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkedIn YouTube © Southern Methodist University, PO Box 750100, Dallas, TX 75275 Apply First-Year Domestic Student* Application First-Year International Student* Application Transfer Forms and Applications Readmission to SMU Graduate Studies FAQs | Undergraduate Temporary Test-Optional Policy Visit Virtual Campus Experience In-Person Visit Virtual Tour Admission Events Maps and Directions Residential Commons Tour Where to Stay Academics Majors and Minors Schools Faculty Virtual Connections Support and Resources Honors and Scholars Tips SMU Abroad SMU-in-Taos FAQs | Academics Campus Life SMU and Dallas Residence Life Dining Health and Safety Spirit and Traditions Diversity At SMU Activities and Organizations Fitness and Recreation Sports Spiritual Life En Espanol FAQs | Living on Campus FAQs | Student Life Financial Aid Cost of Attendance Types of Aid Access SMU Financial Aid Process Payment Plan Options SMU Net Price Calculator Mustang Scholars Robert H. Dedman Scholarship for North Dallas High School En Español Contact Us Deadlines FAQs FAQs | Financial Aid FAQs | Tuition, Fees, and Deadlines Scholarships and Assistance Connect Meet Your Admission Counselor School Contacts Request Information High School Counselor Information Parent Information Social Media and Zoom Backgrounds Frequently Asked Questions Publications Student Ambassadors Coronavirus (COVID-19) Updates Incoming and Current Students Prospective Student Publications Wallpapers International How to Apply Visit SMU Life in Dallas Living at SMU International Student Events Intercultural Engagement Athletics at SMU Spirit and Traditions Immigration Information Obtaining an I-20 Transfer Benefits of an SMU Education Transfer Scholarships Transfer Admission Application Process Transfer Dates and Deadlines Transfer Pathway Guides Transfer Equivalency Tool Meadows Auditions and Portfolios Transfer Forms and Applications International Transfer Students FAQs Congratulations on your admission to SMU! How Credits Transfer Partnership Programs Menu Search Search Submit Popular Searches Apply Academics Campus Life Majors and Minors Visit Financial Aid Did you know? SMU's main campus is located in the nation's fourth largest metropolitan area, Dallas-Fort Worth, with 7.4 million people and more than 20 Fortune 500 headquarters.Learn More Menu Search