Skip banner navigation Skip to main content Close Navigation Screen Login to myCoyote View the Campus Directory CSUSB Library CSUSB Maps and Directions CSUSB Palm Desert Campus Make a Gift to CSUSB CSUSB Admissions - Global Site Navigation Admissions Overview - Global Site Navigation Apply to CSUSB - Global Site Navigation After I'm Admitted - Global Site Navigation First-year Students - Global Site Navigation Transfer - Global Site Navigation International Students - Global Site Navigation English Language Program - Global Site Navigation Undocumented Student Center - Global Site Navigation Osher Lifelong Learners - Global Site Navigation Military Veterans/Dependents - Global Site Navigation Financial Aid & Scholarships - Global Site Navigation Student Financial Services - Global Site Navigation Summer Session - Global Site Navigation Academics - Global Site Navigation Academic Calendar - Global Site Navigation Academic Advising - Global Site Navigation Degrees & Programs - Global Site Navigation Colleges & Departments - Global Site Navigation Course Catalog / Bulletin - Global Site Navigation Class Schedule - Global Site Navigation Online Programs - Global Site Navigation Academic Success and Undergraduate Advising - Global Site Navigation Graduate Studies - Global Site Navigation Office of the Registrar - Global Site Navigation Academic & Support Resources - Global Site Navigation Academic Research - Global Site Navigation Graduation Initiative 2025 - Global Site Navigation CSUSB Athletics Men's Sports Men's Sports Baseball Men's Sports Basketball Men's Sports Golf Men's Sports Soccer Women's Sports Women's Sports Softball Women's Sports Cheer & Dance Women's Sports Track & Field Women's Sports Cross Country Women's Sports Volleyball Women's Sports Soccer Women's Sports Basketball Campus Life - Global Site Navigation Events Calendar - Global Site Navigation Get Involved - Global Site Navigation Student Services - Global Site Navigation Recreation & Wellness - Global Site Navigation Student Health & Safety - Global Site Navigation Housing & Dining - Global Site Navigation Music & Arts - Global Site Navigation Student Employment - Global Site Navigation Campus Safety & Emergency Info - Global Site Navigation Palm Desert Campus Life - Global Site Navigation About CSUSB - Global Site Navigation Inside CSUSB - Global Site Navigation COVID-19 Campus Map - Global Site Navigation President's Office - Global Site Navigation Shared Governance - Global Site Navigation Strategic Plan 2015-2022 - Global Site Navigation Administrative Divisions - Global Site Navigation Organizational Chart - Global Site Navigation Strategic Communication - Global Site Navigation Mission, Vision & Core Values - Global Site Navigation Accreditation Assessment Site Header Region CSUSB Home We Define the Future Login to myCoyote View the Campus Directory CSUSB Library CSUSB Maps and Directions CSUSB Palm Desert Campus Make a Gift to CSUSB Search CSUSB Search CSUSB CSUSB Main Menu Page Header Inside CSUSB home News For the Media CSUSB Magazine Alert Toggle Inside Search Panel Search Inside CSUSB Search Inside Main Content Region Weight management program for adolescents launches online survey Media Inquiries Joe Gutierrez | Office of Strategic Communication | (951) 236-4522 | joeg@csusb.edu Weight management program for adolescents launches online survey The need for a youth weight management program comes as 40% of children in the San Bernardino County have obesity or are overweight. As part of the Youth Weight Management Program, an online survey has been launched to determine adolescents’ and their caregivers’ needs. Published March 30, 2022 The Youth Weight Management Program, which is still in the planning stages, will help determine ways to help adolescents control their weight, be happy and healthy. Parents and families of adolescents struggling with weight issues or looking for ways to help their children control their weight are being sought to answer an online survey, available in English and Spanish, regarding a future weight management program for adolescents in the Inland Empire. The Youth Weight Management Program, which is still in the planning stages, will help determine ways to help adolescents control their weight, be happy and healthy, said Wagner Prado, an assistant professor of kinesiology at Cal State San Bernardino. The program will be offered by the CSUSB Nutrition, Physical Activity and Health Behavior Lab, said Prado. The program developed a Youth Weight Management Program online survey to help determine adolescents’ and their caregivers’ needs, said Prado. The program will consist of faculty members led by Neal Malik, an assistant professor in the Department of Health Science and Human Ecology; Bryan Haddock, chair of the Department of Kinesiology; Mara Lofrano-Prado, a lecturer in the Department of Psychology; and Prado. The need for the program comes given that, in California, childhood obesity prevalence is about 39% while in San Bernardino County the prevalence is 42%. According to the San Bernardino County Department of Public Health Community Indicators, 40% of children have obesity or are overweight. There is also wide variation of student weight status according to ethnicity. According to San Bernardino County indicators, the percentage of students classified as overweight or obese are: Pacific Islander children – 60.7 percent, Latinx – 46.9%, Native American – 43%, African American – 39.8, two or more races – 36.5%, white – 32.6%, Filipino – 28.5% and Asian – 27.6%. The program will eventually serve those living in the cities of San Bernardino, Riverside, Redlands, Highland and other nearby cities. The need for the program came with the determination to help transform people’s lives, especially adolescents, Prado said. “The harmful effects of obesity on social, psychological and overall health are already well documented,” Prado said. “Adolescents with obesity have a lower quality of life than their normal weight peers. From a psychological perspective, childhood obesity leads to low self-esteem, emotional distress, depression, anxiety, eating disorders, suicidal thoughts, social isolation, negative self-image and negative stigmas, among others. These individuals may suffer discrimination and stigmatization as well. Lastly, they are more likely to experience premature death. “What motivates us is to have a meaningful impact on these adolescents and their family’s quality of life,” Prado said. “We want these kids living a happy and healthier life.” The need for parental input on what they want for their children is especially crucial. “It is clear that the gold standard care to obesity with clinical, psychological and nutritional counseling with physical activities works,” Prado said. “However, the adherence rates to such programs are really low, which can make this approach ineffective from a public health perspective.” Also, the long-term success rate are frustrating. “We know that being healthy may not motivate adolescents to engage in weight management programs,” Prado said. “But we have no idea what motivates them, what they want, or what their parents want in order to support their children to engage in such programs. Hearing the parents’ thoughts and their input are mandatory to increase adherence to the program and long-term success. We have no doubt that this program will produce a significant impact on the health of the Inland Empire.” For more information, email Wagner Prado at wagner.prado@csusb.edu. More: Youth Weight Management Program survey Wagner Prado kinesiology health science and human ecology psychology Neal Malik Bryan Haddock Mara Lofrano-Prado College of Natural Sciences College of Social and Behavioral Sciences Footer Region CSUSB California State University, San Bernardino 5500 University Parkway San Bernardino, CA 92407 +1 (909) 537-5000 Follow Us CSUSB's Facebook CSUSB's Twitter CSUSB's YouTube CSUSB's Instagram CSUSB's LinkedIn CSUSB's Social Media Column 1 Login myCoyote Login Canvas Blackboard Login Student Email Login Faculty & Staff Email Login CSUSB Drupal Login Of Interest to... Future Students Interests Current Students Interests Faculty & Staff Interests Full-Time Faculty Interests Part-Time Faculty Interests Community & Visitors Interests Alumni & Friends Interests University Partners Interests Military/Veterans Interests Column 2 Employment CSUSB Job Listings - CSUSB Faculty Jobs - CSUSB Career Center - CSUSB Human Resources - CSUSB Student Employment - CSUSB Resources Contact CSUSB Clery Act Annual Safety Reports - CSUSB Title IX Notice - CSUSB Disclosure of Consumer Information - CSUSB Column 3 Campus Services Academic Advising - CSUSB Housing & Residential Life - CSUSB Ombuds Services - CSUSB Parking - CSUSB Police - CSUSB Psychological Counseling - CSUSB Services to Students with Disabilities - CSUSB Student Health Center - CSUSB Transcripts - CSUSB Accessibility Privacy and Security Non-Discrimination Notice Website Copyright/DMCA Policy