Skip to Main Content Brown University Graduate Programs Search Menu Graduate Programs American Studies Ph.D. school Graduate School department American Studies Inquire Apply All Graduate Programs Navigate This Page Navigate This Page About the Program Admission Information Completion Requirements Alumni Outcomes Leadership Contact and Location The Ph.D. program American Studies trains students to become knowledgeable, engaged and productive scholars and public humanists. The Department of American Studies at Brown University undertakes the interdisciplinary study of the diverse cultures, groups and experiences that make up American life. One of the oldest American Studies programs in the nation, its graduate students and faculty represent a community of innovative scholars committed to defining new directions in research, teaching across the disciplines, and reaching out to diverse audiences. The Ph.D. program in American Studies provides students with rigorous training in the methods of interdisciplinary work while allowing them the freedom to follow their own academic interests and goals. Graduate students design their own course of study within the guidelines set up by the department, working with faculty both in the department and throughout the university. Recent graduate students have studied in areas as diverse as African American history, Asian American and Latino culture and politics, childhood development, public history, transnational popular culture, film, material culture, religion, and the history of sexuality and gender. Students chose to receive either an A.M. in American Studies or an A.M. in Public Humanities on their way to the Ph.D. The primary goal of the graduate program in American Studies is to train students to become knowledgeable and productive scholars and public humanists who will significantly contribute to the communities in which they work and live. Graduates of the department now work in a variety of college and university departments including history, English, women's studies, communications, and American Studies, as well as in archives, museums, and historical societies. Additional Resources Our students work closely with faculty in Africana Studies, Ethnic Studies, Modern Culture and Media, and the John Nicholas Brown Center for Public Humanities and Cultural Heritage, as well as those in more traditional departments. The Center for the Study of Race and Ethnicity and the Pembroke Center for Teaching and Research on Women at Brown provide additional opportunities for collaboration. Brown offers numerous facilities for research in American civilization such as the Americana Collection of the John Carter Brown Library and the Harris Collection of American Poetry and Plays in the John Hay Library. Admission Information Inquire Apply Admission Requirements GRE Subject: Not required GRE General: Not required Writing Sample: Required (short sample of 10–20 pages in area of interest) Dates/Deadlines Admission Deadline December 1, 2021 Completion Requirements Ten courses, including AMST0210 (Interdisciplinary Methods) and AMST2520 (Professionalization Workshop), no more than half of which may be in a single discipline; oral preliminary exams in three fields developed by the student; and dissertation. Students completing the A.M. in Public Humanities take additional courses and a practicum. Alumni Careers Learn More Leadership Department Chair Matt Guterl Matthew_Guterl@brown.edu Director of Graduate Studies Ralph Rodriguez ralph_rodriguez@brown.edu Contact and Location Department of American Studies Mailing Address Brown University Box 1892 AmCivgrad_Advisor@brown.edu 401-863-2896 Visit the Department of American Studies Resources Program Faculty Program Handbook Graduate School Handbook Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University Brown University For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home Graduate School School of Engineering School of Professional Studies School of Public Health Warren Alpert Medical School This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search American Studies Open details for American Studies Bookmark this Page