Skip to main content Skip to primary site menu Google Tag Manager Find: A to Z Index People Directory Learn More: About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life Information For: Current Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Information For: Current Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Brown University Native American and Indigenous Studies Brown About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life A to Z Index People Directory m.Brown.edu News Events Visit Campus Life Map Directory Brown Apps Safety About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life A to Z Index People Directory Native American and Indigenous Studies Initiative Staff NAISI Staff The staff members listed below work for the Native American and Indigenous Studies Initiative at Brown. Find them at the NAISI offices at 67 George St. during the academic year. See the "Staff Across Campus" list below for additional staff from offices and departments across Brown’s campus who work closely with NAISI. Rae Gould, PhD (Nipmuc Nation) Executive Director, Native American and Indigenous Studies Email: [email protected] | Phone: (401) 863-5972 Adjunct Assistant Professor, American Studies Affiliated Faculty, Anthropology Faculty Associate, Center for the Study of Slavery and Justice Dr. Gould joined NAISI in 2019 as Associate Director. Her primary responsibilities include oversight of developing an undergraduate concentration in Native American and Indigenous Studies, programming to support and supplement academic developments, and tribal outreach. She also collaborates with centers, departments and offices across the campus, and at other institutions, on academic programming and engagement, in addition to contributing to increased engagement with and support for undergraduate and graduate students. Her research and publishing focus on Southern New England Native American history and culture in the 400 years since European contact, with additional expertise in Indigenous cultural landscapes, federal acknowledgement, NAGPRA and Section 106. Rae Gould research profile. endawnis Spears (Diné/ Ojibwe/ Chickasaw/ Choctaw) 2021-2022 Tribal Community Member in Residence, Native American and Indigenous Studies Contact endawnis by email: [email protected] endawnis Spears (Diné/ Ojibwe/ Chickasaw/ Choctaw) is impassioned about the diverse and complex intersections of Native American narratives and systems and places of knowledge. She received her Bachelor of Arts degree in Anthropology from the University of Denver and has worked for the Heard Museum, Museum of Northern Arizona, Mashantucket Pequot Museum and Research Center, was a Peabody Essex Museum Native American Arts and Culture Fellow, and currently serves on the board of the Federation of State Humanities Councils. endawnis is the Co-Director of the Upstander Academy, and a founding member of the Akomawt Educational Initiative, an Indigenous education and interpretive consultancy for museums, K-12 schools, and colleges/universities. Originally from Camp Verde, Arizona, she lives in Hope Valley, RI with her husband, Cassius Spears Jr. and their four children, Nizhoni, Sowaniu, Giizhig, and Tishominko. endawnis is available to meet virtually, by appt, on Mondays 10 AM - 2 PM and Wednesdays 12 PM - 4 PM. To make an appointment with endawnis, email her directly at [email protected]. Click here to read NAISI's press release about endawnis's role on campus. Other Staff Across Campus The staff members listed below help support Native American and Indigenous students and programming from different offices and departments across Brown’s campus. (For a list of staff members who work for the Native American and Indigenous Studies Initiative directly, see the NAISI Staff list above.) Tiffiney George (Navajo Nation | Diné Asdzáán) Senior Assistant Director, Office of College Admission I focus on Native/Indigenous outreach and strengthening partnerships with non-profit college access organizations I graduated from Brown in 2007, have been a staff member at Brown since 2011, and a Natives at Brown Alumni (NABA) Executive Committee member since 2015. Leah Hopkins, (Narragansett Indian Tribe) Community Engagement Specialist, Haffenreffer Museum of Anthropology I am responsible for working collaboratively with Indigenous and Tribal communities, museums and other institutions and Brown students and faculty to develop, implement and evaluate programming and education initiatives that best improve the visibility and promote the perspectives of Indigenous populations in New England at the Museum. I hope to be a bridge as well between Native students and the Museum, and also offer my support to connect students with the local Native communities so that they can extend their cultural support network when away from home Christina Smith (Diné (Navajo)) Associate Director for Undergraduate STEM Development I support all students who are in a teaching capacity on campus (e.g. UTAs, mentors, etc.) and facilitate the Problem Solving Fellows, Catalyst, and New Scientist Collective programs. My PhD is in chemical engineering so I can relate to students who are navigating STEM paths. I also can discuss ways on how to be an effective learner and/or teacher at Brown. Main menu Home Booking Spaces People Faculty Staff Graduate Students Visiting Instructors and Fellows Alumni NAISI Graduate Fellowship Course Offerings Undergraduate Events Resources NAISI E-Bulletin Archive Funding Requests Research Projects and Community Engagement Stay Informed Annual Reports Brown University Land Acknowledgment Mellon Grant Native American and Indigenous Studies Native American and Indigenous Studies Brown University 67 George Street Providence, RI 02912 Phone: 401-863-5972 Email [email protected] Facebook Facebook Instagram Instagram Resource Links A to Z Index Career Opportunities Make a Gift People Directory Giving to Brown Brown University Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-1000 Maps & Directions / Contact Us © 2022 Brown University Connect: [email protected] Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram iTunes U Google+ LinkedIn SnapChat