Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Division of Student Affairs Student Affairs Information For Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff Search BC.edu Links Robsham Theater Menu Main Nav Robsham Theater Arts Center Robsham Box Office Back Back Close About Overview Meet Our Staff Visitor Information Student Employment Venues Overview Robsham Main Stage Bonn Studio Theater Brighton Dance Studios 300 Hammond Pond Parkway Robsham Box Office Robsham Box Office Close Directory A to Z Listing Search Division of Student Affairs Search BC.edu Find pages or people Search Close Close Apply Visit Give Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close Student Employment Home About Student Employment About Meet Our Staff Visitor Information Student Employment Each year, the Robsham Theater Arts Center offers student employment opportunities for both theater and non-theater majors. More than 60 students are hired each year to work in the various offices of the Robsham Theater Arts Center, whether it’s the Box Office, Front of House, or backstage. Within the center, there are all kinds of opportunities to develop skills in areas such as audiovisual technical systems, marketing, hospitality, and operations management. Employment Opportunities Job openings at the Robsham Theater Arts Center are listed on the Boston College Student Employment website. Students interested in a position should email their resume to kier.byrnes@bc.edu with the specific job position title in the email subject line. Please consult the Employee Manual for specific job titles and descriptions. Graduate Student Opportunities Each year, the Robsham Theater Arts Center looks to hire one enthusiastic graduate student to assist with the management and logistics of the operation. For more information on this position, please email your resume to kier.byrnes@bc.edu with "Graduate Student" in the subject line. Summer Intern Positions Each summer, the Robsham Theater Arts Center looks to hire one or two students to assist with summer programs and logistics of the operation. For more information on these positions, please email your resume to kier.byrnes@bc.edu with "Summer Intern" in the subject line. Employee Manual The employee manual lists specific duties for each position as well as the Robsham Theater Arts Center’s departmental policies. All employees are expected to follow the policies and procedures outlined in the manual. If you would prefer the manual be sent to you as emailed text, please notify us at rtac.operations@bc.edu. Download the Student Employee Manual (PDF) Testimonials “Working at Robsham was a major part of my BC experience. I started as an usher and was later promoted to a house manager. Along the way, I developed confidence as well as communication and interpersonal skills while gaining invaluable leadership experience. Many of the skills I learned at Robsham have carried into my post-grad job working in an emergency room.” Clare Flanagan '18, Morrissey College of Arts and Sciences “With the great mentorship of the Box Office staff, I feel as though I am developing as not only an employee, but as a person. The Box Office has become a family for me on campus, which I am incredibly grateful for.” Lexie Slotterback '22, Morrissey College of Arts and Sciences “I can honestly say that my work in the Box Office has been a pivotal part of my Boston College experience and I do not know where I would be without the experiences and the relationships that I have made working here.” Joe McCarthy '17, Carroll School of Management “Beyond viewing some of the big name acts and productions that come through the theater, I’ve also enjoyed working with a diverse population, honing my problem-solving abilities, and getting an opportunity to work in the entertainment industry without any previous experience. I’ve found the leadership skills I've developed as a house manager to be a great asset.” Annalise Goyne '16, Morrissey College of Arts and Sciences Back To Top Back To Top Robsham Theater Arts Center Boston College 617-552-4800 About Venues Box Office Connect with us Facebook Twitter Division of Student Affairs Division of Student Affairs BAIC BC Bands Business Service Center Career Center Counseling Services Graduate Student Life Health Promotion Health Services Residential Life Robsham Theater Student Conduct Student Involvement Student Outreach & Support Women’s Center Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College