Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. Equity, Inclusion & Community Impact Inclusion right arrow down arrow About right arrow down arrow Meet The Team CDO Roundtable Diversity Council D&I Resource Liaisons Student Diversity & Inclusion Council Employee Resource Groups Guiding Principles Equity & Inclusion App Feedback Equity & Inclusion right arrow down arrow Community Education & Workshops right arrow down arrow Workshop Request Form Equity & Inclusion Conference right arrow down arrow Call for Concurrent Session Proposals Equity & Inclusion Incentive Grants Marian Spencer Equity Ambassador Award Services right arrow down arrow Services Request Form Equal Opportunity & Access right arrow down arrow Affirmative Action Plan & Equal Employment Opportunity Section 504/ADA Grievance Procedure Complaint Resolution and Consultation Community Education & Workshops right arrow down arrow Equal Opportunity & Access ACADEMY right arrow down arrow Graduate Class of 2021 Inclusive Excellence Workshops The Student Experience right arrow down arrow Semester/Capstone Projects Gender Equity & Inclusion (Title IX) right arrow down arrow Making a Report right arrow down arrow Confidentiality Employee Responsibility Support & Resources right arrow down arrow Supportive Measures Pregnancy and Parenting Resources Responding to Disclosures Resources for Complainants and Respondents Gender Identity Resources Community Education & Training right arrow down arrow Training Request Form Gender and Sexual Diversity Terminology Title IX right arrow down arrow Reporting Options Title IX Sexual Harassment Policy Sex- and/or Gender-Based Misconduct Policy and Procedure Training Materials for UC Title IX Personnel Community Impact right arrow down arrow CPS Strong Make a Gift right arrow down arrow Darwin T. Turner Scholars Program DEI Toolkit Home » About UC » Equity, Inclusion and Community Impact » Equal Opportunity & Access » Affirmative Action Plan & Equal Employment Opportunity Set Navigation title in component Affirmative Action Plan & Equal Employment Opportunity Section 504/ADA Grievance Procedure Complaint Resolution and Consultation Community Education & Workshops Equal Opportunity & Access ACADEMY Graduate Class of 2021 Inclusive Excellence Workshops The Student Experience Semester/Capstone Projects Affirmative Action Plan & Equal Employment Opportunity The Affirmative Action Plan (AAP) is a set of specific and results-oriented procedures to which we commit ourselves to apply every good faith effort. The objective of these procedures and special efforts is equal employment opportunity for all. The following procedures, coupled with good faith efforts, are designed to achieve the full utilization of women, minorities, persons with disabilities, and protected veterans at all levels and in all areas of the work force: Policies - Publish and disseminate internally and externally where appropriate, affirmative action and equal employment policies. Effectiveness - Utilize internal audit and reporting systems to evaluate and measure the effectiveness of affirmative action program activities and recommend corrective actions. Underutilization - Where underutilization of women, minorities, persons with disabilities, or protected veterans is determined to exist, establish annual numerical goals to increase the representation of the affected groups until full participation exists at all levels and in all segments of the workforce. In keeping with the purpose of equal opportunity, the University of Cincinnati has consistently striven to improve the total quality of its work environment. To accomplish this goal the university provides all of its employees a work place free from discrimination based upon disability, race, color, religion, national origin, ancestry, medical condition, genetic information, marital status, sex, age, sexual orientation, veteran status or gender identity and expression. See: Notice of Non-Discrimination As a federal contractor, the University of Cincinnati complies with affirmative action requirements of Executive Order 11246, as amended, the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended, the Vietnam Veterans' Readjustment Assistance Act of 1974, 38-USC 4212, as amended and the associated regulations promulgated by the U.S. Department of Labor. In compliance with regulatory requirements, the University of Cincinnati prepares annual written affirmative action plans for women, minorities, persons with disabilities, and protected veterans. Each person, without regard to his or her position or status, is expected to comply with the spirit and intent of the university's policies on equal opportunity by treating people with respect and dignity. The university draws its human resources from a multi-cultural environment. Each of us brings with us our own unique racial and cultural experiences from the communities in which we reside. To achieve our goal of equal employment opportunity we will use affirmative action measures to address the barriers, which hinder good interpersonal work relationships and which tend to limit opportunities for women, minorities, persons with disabilities and protected veterans. We recognize the importance of work relationships in the growth and development of all persons. Therefore, the university has formulated an Equal Employment Opportunity and Affirmative Action policy that is implemented and documented through the AAP that recognizes the value of work force diversity. The affirmative action approach promotes a supportive climate for the selection, hiring, promotion, and retention of women, minorities, persons with disabilities and protected veterans, throughout the work force, at all job levels. To view or receive a copy of the University's AAP for women, minorities, persons with disabilities and protected veterans contact: University of Cincinnati 2600 Clifton Ave. Cincinnati Oh 45220 513-556-5000 UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati University of Cincinnati 2600 Clifton Ave. Cincinnati Oh 45220 513-556-5000 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top