Skip to Main Content HBS Home About Academic Programs Alumni Faculty & Research Baker Library Giving Harvard Business Review Initiatives News Recruit Map / Directions Research Computing Services Online Requests FAQ Blog Contact Us About Us Faculty Projects Training Compute Cluster & Data Storage Data Practices Help …→ Harvard Business School→ Research Computing Services→ Personalized support on topics related to all stages of the research process, from fuzzy matching & text digitization to advanced statistical analyses, machine learning, & data visualizations. Services Statistical & Data Services RCS provides consulting services and assistance for faculty research projects on such topics as machine learning, statistical analyses, natural language processing & more. Faculty Project Examples (login required) Read about how the RCS team has assisted with faculty research projects. Our Team (login required) RCS staff include experienced statisticians and data scientists with backgrounds in such disciplines as economics, statistics, machine learning, biology, & business. Software Licensing RCS purchases most research software (e.g., Stata) used at HBS, and many licenses are provided at no cost to the HBS community. Training RCS is proud to offer training to HBS members and the wider academic community on a wide range of programming languages, tools, and techniques. Compute Cluster & Data Storage RCS offers a local compute cluster to work with large data, access storage, and utilize databases, along with guidance on other research computing environments. News HBSGrid Environment Changes for 5/2/22 29 Apr 2022 Our next maintenance is scheduled for Monday, may 2nd, 8 AM–12 PM. This will be a full cluster & MariaDB shutdown, for which ALL jobs and sessions will be terminated. Please plan appropriately. ... Connecting with RCS The RCS office is hybrid, and available to help remotely, in person, or via our online resources! Individual members of the team can be reached using the email addresses and phone numbers on our team page. You can also contact us via Microsoft Teams and schedule meetings with us via Zoom. You can request software, HBSGrid accounts, storage, and other resources via these online forms. Other general requests can also be directed to research@hbs.edu or 5-6100. All training workshops and events are held remotely or in a hybrid format. Live Demos Stay tuned for announcements about live demos with the RCS team via Zoom. Drop in to watch an RCS staff member demonstrate a technique, share a tip, or work through a problem, and then stay to ask any and all questions related to research computing! No registration required. Recordings of these demos are made available after the fact on our live demos page. →How to Attend the Live Demos (login required) Training Calendar Jun22 Jun 22 10:00 AM - 11:00 AM HBSGrid Training Online via Zoom This mandatory training for new HBSGrid users will cover both basic and advanced concepts and resources of the cluster. Sign up for our Newsletter Regular communications with updates, tips, information about our services, and more. Sign Up for Our Newsletter ǁ Research Computing Services (RCS) Harvard Business School Baker Library, B90, 25 Harvard Way Boston, MA 02163 Phone: 617.495.6100 Email: research@hbs.edu →Map & Directions →More Contact Information →Terms Of Service Make a Gift Site Map Jobs Harvard University Trademarks Policies Digital Accessibility Copyright © President & Fellows of Harvard College