Skip to main content Skip to main content Prospective Students Current Students Alumni More Faculty/Staff News Media Parents Skip to main content Apply Apply Give Give Follow Us Follow Us Twitter Follow Us Facebook Follow Us Instagram Follow Us LinkedIn Follow Us YouTube Follow Us Social Stream Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. Navigate Search Skip to main content Moody Prospective Students Prospective Students Degrees Offered Graduate Admissions Guide Application Deadlines Graduate School Resources International Applicants Diversity Visit SMU Current Students Current Students Forms and Policies Graduation Graduate Writing Center Graduate Student Lounge Career Development Graduate Student Organizations Student Services Events Events Events Calendar Research and Innovation Week Orientation Professional Development Three Minute Thesis Student Life Funding Funding Meet our Ph.D. Fellows Ph.D. Health Insurance Graduate Student Travel Grant Dedman Graduate Student Assembly About About Mission and History Moody Foundation Gift Charter Administrative Handbook Dean's Office Messages from the Dean Graduate Council Graduate Student Advisory Board Contact Us Admissions Contacts Blog ☰ The Moody School of Graduate and Advanced Studies Moody School of Graduate and Advanced Studies About Messages from the Dean Messages from the Dean Letters to Graduate Students: Most Recent: Subject: Keeping Our Community Healthy and Safe September 15, 2021 Dear Graduate Students, I hope the beginning of the fall term has gone well for you and that you are back in the swing of your graduate studies. These are challenging times, so please do not hesitate to take advantage of the resources I mentioned in my previous letter to you. I also want to remind you that Counseling Services offers individual counseling sessions, workshops, and other resources in support of graduate students experiencing stress. University leaders continue to make and review decisions regarding campus operations in consultation with health experts and local officials according to clear and carefully considered guidelines. As members of the SMU community, however, we all have an important part to play in keeping our campus healthy and safe. The decisions University leaders make rely on an accurate understanding of the numbers of students, faculty, and staff who are vaccinated. I want to ask you, therefore, if you were vaccinated off campus, to please upload your vaccination information directly to the SMU Health Portal, even if you already voluntarily shared your status through the vaccine reporting tool last spring. This will only take you a few moments, and it will greatly benefit your community. If you were vaccinated on campus, your information will automatically be uploaded into your health record under immunizations (no action is necessary). If you have not been vaccinated, COVID-19 vaccinations are available to all members of the SMU community (ages 12 and older) and are now being administered inside the Dr. Bob Smith Health Center. All current and incoming students, SMU employees and their eligible spouse/dependents can book a vaccination appointment through the SMU Health Portal or by calling the Dr. Bob Smith Health Center at 214-768-2141 (option 1). I also encourage you to take the time to read and sign the updated Pledge to Protect. Signing the Pledge to Protect is voluntary, but doing so demonstrates your commitment to do your part to keep our community healthy and safe. Finally, I know that SMU graduate students are taking important steps to protect the health of our community, and I want to express my profound gratitude to all of you for your contributions to this effort. Sincerely, James E. Quick Dean Moody School of Graduate and Advanced Studies Previous Letters: Letter from Dean Quick, August 24, 2021 Letter from Dean Quick, May 14, 2021 Letter from Dean Quick, March 29, 2021 Letter from Dean Quick, November 19, 2020 Letter from Dean Quick, October 7, 2020 Letter from Dean Quick, August 21, 2020 Letter from Dean Quick, August 13, 2020 Letter from Dean Quick, July 30, 2020 Letter from Dean Quick, May 19, 2020 Letter from Dean Quick, March 26, 2020 About Mission and History Moody Foundation Gift Charter Administrative Handbook Dean's Office Messages from the Dean Graduate Council Graduate Student Advisory Board Contact Us Apply Visit School Cox School of Business Dedman College of Humanities and Sciences Dedman School of Law Lyle School of Engineering Meadows School of the Arts Moody School of Graduate and Advanced Studies Perkins School of Theology Simmons School of Education and Human Development Explore SMU Magazine Academic Calendar Events Calendar Guildhall Continuing and Professional Education Athletics Employment at SMU Campus Reporting a Bias Incident Report Sexual Misconduct Emergency Preparedness Student Life George W. Bush Presidential Center SMU Libraries Meadows Museum Tate Lecture Series Contact Us Maps and Directions Legal Disclosures © Southern Methodist University, PO Box 750100, Dallas, TX 75275 twitter facebook instagram linkedin youtube share