Skip to main content Baylor Business - Hankamer School of Business Baylor University About HSB Student Resources Giving Contact Undergraduate #BU26 Graduate MBA Programs Army-Baylor Programs Master of Business Analytics Master of Information Systems Master of Economics Master of Accountancy Master of Taxation Doctorate in Entrepreneurship Doctorate in Health Services Research Doctorate in Information Systems Areas of Study Accounting & Business Law Baylor Business Fellows Economics Entrepreneurship & Corporate Innovation Finance, Insurance & Real Estate Information Systems & Business Analytics Marketing Management Centers & Institutes Entrepreneurship Family Business Financial Markets Health Policy & Leadership International Business Nonprofit Leadership Professional Selling Real Estate Sales & Marketing Sports Strategy and Sales Technology Center Ethics Career Center Alumni About HSB Student Resources Giving Undergraduate Graduate Areas of Study Centers & Institutes Ethics Management Management at Baylor, Learn More Watch Video Full Story Management at Baylor Our mission: We fulfill God's mandate to promote human flourishing through. . . Researching and teaching the effective management of systems and people Practicing servant leadership and equipping principled leaders Fostering collaboration and community Our faculty team collaborate towards the central purpose of promoting human flourishing. This mandate from God is provided in Genesis when "God said, “Let us make man in our image, after our likeness; and let them have dominion over the fish of the sea, and over the birds of the air, and over the cattle, and over all the earth and over every creeping thing that creeps upon the earth.”" Genesis 1:26. As God's image bearers, we have a responsibility to nurture the world around us, in particular supporting fellow men and women to pursue a life well-lived. Our Management faculty promote human flourishing through multiple facets including research of systems and people with impact, teaching principled leadership and virtues through role modeling, and enriching our local community. This mission strives for our ultimate department vision presented below. Our vision: Become thought-leaders who set the standard for research productivity, inspire students to become the next generation of principled leaders, and facilitate student placement in roles that are consistent with their calling. Find more information about our faculty and our three majors: Supply Chain Management, Human Resource Management or Management. Students interested in exploring our majors are invited to attend a meeting of our three student organizations: APICS for Supply Chain Management BAHR for Human Resource Management The Consulting Group at Baylor News News Feed 5 Ways Managers Can Support Pregnant Employees View All News Events View Full Calendar Search Site Map Programs & Course Info Faculty and Staff Event Calendar Student Resources Outstanding Students Management Consulting Stay Connected Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkedIn Podcast YouTube RSS Feed Programs & Course Info Faculty and Staff Event Calendar Student Resources Outstanding Students Management Consulting Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkedIn Podcast YouTube RSS Feed Baylor Business Links About HSB Advisory Board Baylor Business Brand Events Maps & Directions News Find Us Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkedIn YouTube Podcast RSS Feed Resources and Tools Canvas Digital Measures Directory Faculty/Staff Resources HSB Policies Student Resources Copyright © Baylor® University. All rights reserved. Legal Disclosures. Baylor University Waco, Texas 76798 1-800-BAYLOR-U