Skip to main content Navigation Academics Admissions Research Locations Student Life Alumni & Giving Athletics Apply Now College of Undergraduate Studies The College of Undergraduate Studies provides students with a robust and individualized course of study through the Interdisciplinary Studies degree program. The college confers academic degrees that include Bachelor of Arts and Bachelor of Science in Interdisciplinary Studies, Bachelor of Applied Science, and Bachelor of Science in Environmental Studies. Undergraduate Studies also supports UCF’s colleges and units in curricular planning, collaborates with faculty curricular oversight, works with faculty and administrators to assure the strength of university-wide programs such as general education and advocates for an outstanding learning experience to all UCF students. undergrad.ucf.edu Each year more than 20,000 students earn real-world experience through internships, co-ops and service-learning projects. The college is home to the nationally-recognized McNair Scholars program, from which students rise to prestigious graduate schools such as Columbia, Dartmouth and the University of Oxford. Undergraduate research opportunities challenge more than 2,000 students per year to seek solutions to the world’s most pressing problems. Search Degrees There are many benefits to taking a more proactive approach to choosing a career. The College of Undergraduate Studies has curriculum and programs to help you land your next opportunity. Or browse by: Bachelors Minors Undergraduate Certificates Top College Degrees Top College Degrees Interdisciplinary Studies (BA) Environmental Studies (BS) Internships Pre-Health and Pre-Law Advising Undergraduate Research Admissions Info Explore admissions requirements, deadlines, tuition and financial aid, and more. Visit UCF Take a tour of the campus and see what makes UCF so amazing. Apply Now Seeking a bachelor’s degree? Interested in graduate school? Get started today. Undergraduate Studies News Check out more stories Business & Economy Limbitless Solutions Recognized as One of Florida’s Best Manufacturing Companies The UCF-based company is being honored with a Florida Sterling Manufacturing Business Excellence Award for its model operations. Student Life 10 UCF Students Recognized by NSF Graduate Research Fellowships Program A Google co-founder and other changemakers have received these awards in the past. Two of the awardees graduate this spring. Colleges & Campus 2022 UCF Founders’ Day Honorees The annual celebration honors the academic achievements of our faculty members and students. The Big World of Nanotechnology Six ways nanotechnology is improving our lives. Read More University of Central Florida Colleges Burnett Honors Arts and Humanities Business Community Innovation and Education Engineering and Computer Science Graduate Studies Health Professions and Sciences Medicine Nursing Optics and Photonics Sciences Hospitality Management University of Central Florida About UCF Contact Us Faculty Online Degrees Policies Privacy Notice Public Records Regulations Report a Concern UCF News 4000 Central Florida Blvd. Orlando, Florida, 32816 | 407.823.2000 © University of Central Florida