Your browser does not support iframes. Skip to main content Menu Scheller College of Business Request More Information Attend an Info Session Contact Us Directory Apply Now Search Why Scheller? Programs Executive Education Academics Centers & Initiatives News & Events Overview & History Dean's Message and Report Meet Ernest Scheller Jr. Advisory Board Accreditation Strategic Plan Business at Tech Graduates Get Hired Return on Investment Faculty and Advisors Global Perspective A Good Fit Corporate Engagement Trading Floor Georgia Tech Community Student Life Making Connections and Learning Opportunities Diversity Diversity News Career and Recruiter Services Career Services for Students Hire Our Students Giving to the College Meeting the Challenge Priorities and Needs Faculty Support Student Support Program Enrichment Unrestricted Endowment The Impact of Your Gift How to Make a Gift FAQs Scheller MBA Annual Fund Alumni Network Alumni News Alumni Resources Update Contact Information Visit Campus Tech Square and Atlanta Full-time MBA Admissions Curriculum Career Development Leadership Development Student Organizations Student & Alumni Profiles Meet an MBA Ambassador FAQsEvening MBA Admissions Curriculum Career Advancement Leadership Development Student Organizations Student & Alumni Profiles Meet an MBA Ambassador FAQs Executive MBA Admissions Curriculum Career Development Student & Alumni Profiles FAQsMBA Programs Which Georgia Tech MBA is Right for Me? Commitment to Diversity, Inclusion, and Equity Dual Degree Options Experiential Learning For Engineers For Military Community MD/MBA Option MBA Early Admission for Undergrads Rankings The Intersection Podcast Earn Your MBA in Atlanta Graduate Certificate Business Analytics Certificate Undergraduate Admissions Curriculum Career Services Student Services Student Life Scholarships & Awards Rankings & Stats Connect With Us The Intersection Podcast, Undergrad PhD Concentrations Program Milestones Faculty and Staff Funding Admissions FAQs Recruiting Events Student Bios Program News Request Program Information Interdisciplinary M.S. M.S. in Quantitative & Computational Finance (QCF) Master of Science in Analytics at Georgia Tech Lean Six Sigma Certification Lean Six Sigma Green Belt Certification Lean Six Sigma Black Belt Certification FAQs Custom Programs FAQs Accounting Finance Information Technology Management Law & Ethics Marketing Operations Management Organizational Behavior Strategy & Innovation Student Certificates Engineering Entrepreneurship Entrepreneurship International Management Management of Technology Technology Innovation: Generating Economic Results Academic Speaker Series Guest Speakers in Accounting Guest Speakers in Finance Guest Speakers in Marketing Current Faculty Opportunities Business Analytics Center Engage with Us Executive Council News Research Education People Cecil B. Day Program for Business Ethics About Cecil B. Day The Cecil B. Day Prize Speakers and Events Faculty Support Net Impact Center for International Business Education and Research Projects Research Events Books People at CIBER Inside CIBER News and Events Archives International Management Certificate Sign Up for Future CIBER News Financial Analysis Lab Subscribe to Reports Institute for Leadership and Social Impact About Us Programs News Impact Speaker Series Leadership for Social Good Study Abroad Program Social Impact Fellows Ideas to Serve (I2S) Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Servant Leadership Programs Minor in Leadership Studies Excel Alumni Other ILSI Programs Partnerships Program for Engineering Entrepreneurship Ray C. Anderson Center for Sustainable Business About Us Sustainable Business Insights Research Briefs Sustainable Business Events Sustainable Business News Blog Research & Thought Leadership Empowering Students Industry Engagement Newsletter Participating in the Drawdown Georgia Compact Drawdown Georgia Business Compact Meet the Team Alumni Steven A. Denning Technology & Management Program Director's Message About Steven A. Denning T&M Curriculum Program Faculty & Staff Admissions T&M Corporate Affiliates Denning T&M Program News TI:GER® and CDL-Atlanta Program Network TI:GER MBA & PhD FAQs News Apply Inquire Resources in Technology Innovation and Entrepreneurship Scheller News Event Calendar The Intersection Podcast Media Inquiry Marketing Innovation Conference @ Scheller Institute for Leadership and Social Impact Ideas to Serve Home » Centers & Initiatives » Institute for Leadership and Social Impact » Ideas to Serve (I2S) » Ideas to Serve Menu Institute for Leadership and Social Impact Ideas to Serve I2S 2021 Judges I2S 2021 Teams I2S 2021 Winners About Us Programs News Impact Speaker Series Leadership for Social Good Study Abroad Program Social Impact Fellows Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Servant Leadership Programs Minor in Leadership Studies Excel Alumni Other ILSI Programs Partnerships BIG THANKS to everyone who was part of our 2022 Ideas to Serve Program! Read about the Poster Showcase and Partner Celebration here and check out this short video with the awardees. Ideas to Serve (I2S) focuses on community collaborations and promotes an in-depth understanding of social and environmental issues locally and globally. We take a comprehensive approach to social innovation encouraging students to be compassionate listeners; identify and build on the assets; research the solution landscape to learn from both what works and what failed; take a systems approach to identify the root cause versus the symptoms of the issue. Students who aspire to work closely with and learn from a community partner/civic entrepreneur, those who want to affect change in the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (UNSDGs), and those who are wondering how they can make a real, lasting, and appropriate difference in other people’s lives are ideal candidates for I2S. In the 2022 season, student teams will learn from and work with our Atlanta area community partners and civic entrepreneurs. A series of hands-on workshops and discussions, complemented by conversations with experts from the frontlines, will equip participants with broadly relevant problem discovery tools and skills that they can apply in any field and career. The workshops are offered as part of the MGT4803 Social Impact course and they are open to any student interested. The deliverable for I2S is a Stakeholder Map of the social issue student teams explore with their community partner's guidance. The I2S Showcase will take place on April 18 where teams will present the outcome of their work to an audience of practitioners, community leaders, faculty, and students. Participating I2S Teams can apply to the Map the System Global Challenge as a part of our collaboration with the Skoll Center for Social Entrepreneurship at the Saïd Business School at Oxford. The top team(s) from I2S will represent Georgia Tech at Oxford and compete with teams focused on social impact from top universities around the world. 2022 Timeline Key Competition Dates: January 14 Register for MGT4803 (Requirement to be considered for the Problem Discovery Track.) January 30 Map the System Registration April 18 I2S Showcase and Partner Celebration April 25 Team Awards and Map the System Global Finalist Announced *Please note that in 2022 we are only offering the Problem Discovery Track 2022 Workshop Schedule Key Workshop Dates: January 24 Active Listening January 31 Community Partner Presentations Febuary 7 5 WHYs Febuary 14 Finding Data with Social Explorer Febuary 21 Presenting Data for Storytelling/Data Visualization Febuary 28 Asset Based Community Development March 7 Mapping (part 1): Introducing the Tool March 14 Mapping (part 2): Creating Your Map March 28 Persuasive Presentations April 11 Mapping (part 3): Peer feedback and Finalizing Your Map April 18 I2S Showcase and Partner Celebration April 25 Reflections and Team Awards 2022 Community Partners We are honored to learn from and work with this amazing group of black female civic entrepreneurs. We thank them for their time, for sharing their expertise and knowledge, and for guiding our outstanding students in their problem discovery journey. Join us on April 18 to meet them and celebrate their work. Civil Bikes Founder: Nedra Deadwyler Website: https://civilbikes.com/ Summary: Civil Bikes walking tours and bicycle tours of Atlanta brings attention to unseen and unheard stories about Atlanta in a unique and accessible way that creatively builds a just community and inspires action. Tours cover a range of topics from neighborhood history, major movements like Civil Rights, and communities of people who continue to impact Atlanta, Georgia, and her future. Best Fit, Inc. Founder: Asha Owens Website: BestFit (best-fit.app) Summary: On a mission to remove non-academic barriers for students at risk of dropping out because they cannot afford to meet their basic needs like, tech, housing, and food. Provides technology to colleges & nonprofits looking to address basic needs insecurity on campus and in their communities. Step Ahead Scholars (SAS) Founder: Debra Nealy Website: https://www.stepaheadscholars.org Summary: College access equity by empowring under-resourced students to and through college. Through assemblies, informational sessions, one-on-one mentorship, and outreach events, we positively impact core college going indicators (FAFSA, SAT, ACT and Best Fit college research know how), thereby increasing the numbers of underserved students that successfully navigate the college admissions and transition process. TruDiary, Inc. Founder: Veronica Berry Website: https://trudiary.com Summary: TruDiary provides culturally relevant value-based care to Black and Brown maternal patients in underserved communities. TruDiary’s digital health platform eliminates barriers to quality prenatal care by connecting patients to the right doctor, offering inclusive educational content and providing social determinants of health (SDOH) services such as food security, mental health, lactation services, vaccine education and transportation. Helping Empower Youth (HEY!) Founder: Kacey Venning Website: https://www.helpingempoweryouth.org/who-we-are Summary: Provides an opportunity to inspire, motivate and mobilize young people to take action that changes their world. HEY! focuses on three initiatives to address those needs: Sport For Good S.T.E.A.M., the EMPOWERED! Leadership Academy, and the HEY! Let's Read! Book Festival for Children of Color. Umi Feeds Founder: Erica Clahr Website: https://umifeeds.org Summary: Umi Feeds is a food rescue organization that is dedicated to serving the hungry and homeless healthy and nutritious meals in Atlanta, Miami, New York, and Mississippi. Over the years they have shared healthy meals, barber services, free yoga, clothing, personal hygiene products, books, and so much more. The organization's mission is to spread love through food! Nourish Botanica Founder: Quianah Upton Website: https://www.nourishbotanica.cafe/ Summary: Quianah is building a black woman-owned greenhouse and eatery in Atlanta to provide healing through art, flowers and plants grown in the greenhouse, food as medicine and herbal blends. Nourish Botanica also provides a physical space for civic engagement and education around food equity and economic justice. Application Applications for 2022 are now closed. Please note that this year all teams are part of the Problem Discovery Track and we have partnered with community partners who work on a wide range of social issues ranging from food recovery to helping young adults get to and through college, to equitable maternal healthcare for women of color. Resources Mapping Tools: Kumu: A powerful data visualization platform that helps you organize complex information into interactive relationship maps Plectica: Helping people visualize & connect information so they can get on the same page Venngage: Tell your stories and present your data with infographics Piktochart: A simple, intuitive tool that helps you tell your story Infogram: Create engaging infographics and reports Canva: Create beautiful designs MindMup: Create, share, and publish mind maps, hassle-free 5 Whys & Iceberg Models Workshop: Presentation What is Systems – Thinking: A Little Film About a Big Idea Mapping Society for a more Meaningful World Why Social Ventures Need System Thinking DIY Toolkit: Causes Diagram What to Consider when Conducting Stakeholder Interviews: The Interview Process in 5 Steps Key Terms in Interviewing Qualities of Effective Interviewers The Lean Research Guide - Principles for Human-Centered Field Research Map the system submission guidelines: Submission guidelines Awards and Supporters 2022 Awards We believe in equitable funding principles and are providing investments to all of our participating community partners. Their time, guidance, and lived experience are crucial for our students' learning journey. Student Team Awards People's Choice Award Best Video Award Scheller MBA Award Map the System Global Finalist Award - Participation and travel to Oxford, England Supporters The Cecil B. Day Program for Business Ethics Center for Serve - Learn - Sustain Denning Technology & Management Program Center for International Business Education and Research Design Bloc VentureLab Global Development Program @ Sam Nunn School of International Affairs Ray C. Anderson Center for Sustainable Business Scheller College of Business Mosley Ventures Speechworks Georgia Social Impact Collaborative Ted Munchak Chair in Entrepreneurship The Woodall Servant Leadership Endowment Participation in the Ideas to Serve Competition fulfills the Final Deliverable requirement for the SLS Innovating for Social Impact Program. Have questions? Reach out to . Scheller College of Business Home Why Scheller? Overview & History Business at Tech Georgia Tech Community Career and Recruiter Services Giving to the College Alumni Network Visit Campus Tech Square and Atlanta Programs MBA Undergraduate PhD Interdisciplinary M.S. Executive Education Lean Six Sigma Certification Custom Programs Academics Accounting Finance Information Technology Management Law & Ethics Marketing Operations Management Organizational Behavior Strategy & Innovation Student Certificates Academic Speaker Series Current Faculty Opportunities Centers & Initiatives Business Analytics Center Cecil B. Day Program for Business Ethics Center for International Business Education and Research Financial Analysis Lab Institute for Leadership and Social Impact Program for Engineering Entrepreneurship Ray C. Anderson Center for Sustainable Business Steven A. Denning Technology & Management Program TI:GER® and CDL-Atlanta News & Events Scheller News Event Calendar The Intersection Podcast Media Inquiry Marketing Innovation Conference @ Scheller LinkedIn Instagram Facebook Twitter Youtube Flickr Georgia Institute of Technology Scheller College of Business 800 W. Peachtree St. NW Atlanta, GA 30308 404.894.2600 © 2022 Georgia Institute of Technology Intranet Emergency Information Contact the College Privacy & Legal Notice Accountability Web Accessibility Resources for People with Disabilities Plugins Youtube Usage Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Hazing Public Disclosures