Skip to Navigation Skip to Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links For information about COVID-19 policies and restrictions on campus, please visit the UCLA COVID-19 resources website. Events Newsroom Magazine Alumni Arts Give About About About Overview General Info Facts & Figures Rankings Leadership History Mission & Values Mission & Values Strategic Plan Equity, Diversity and Inclusion Impact Contributions & Discoveries Global Engagement Recognition Awards & Honors Athletic Championships & Medals Notable Alumni UCLA Ranked No. 1 Public University UCLA tops all public universities in the 2021 U.S. News & World Report rankings. Admission Admission Admission Overview Undergraduate Undergraduate Admission Undergraduate Tuition & Fees Undergraduate Financial Aid Undergraduate Tours Graduate Graduate Admission Graduate Tuition & Fees Graduate Funding Graduate Tours Additional Information International Applicants Extension Program Summer Sessions Academics Academics Academics Overview Explore Degree Programs & Majors College & Professional Schools Education Undergraduate Education Graduate & Professional Education Extension Courses & Certificates Summer Sessions Study Abroad Continuing Education Support Career Preparation Academic Advising First Generation New Student Programs Honors & Advanced Study Resources Libraries Academic Calendar Course Schedule Course Catalogue Research Research Research Campus Resources Research Across Campus Technology & Innovation Investments & Partnerships Libraries Student Research Graduate Research Undergraduate Research Campus Life Campus Life Campus Life Overview Campus Housing Residential Life Dining Health & Wellness Sustainability Student Life Clubs & Organizations Sports & Recreation Arts & Performance Volunteering & Service Directory Academic Calendar Maps & Directions Parking Campus Shuttles Public Transit Newsroom Magazine Alumni Arts Give Open Search ADMISSION Dare to Dream Bigger Your dreams begin here, in the global city of Los Angeles, as they have for so many Bruins. They are Academy Award-winning directors and Nobel Laureates. Olympic medalists and community activists. Doctors, scientists, researchers and politicians who didn’t just get a degree — they changed the world. Undergraduate Admission Graduate & Professional Admission A Diverse Family of Doers The most applied-to university in the country is determined to do more for the world by welcoming applicants from all backgrounds. As the highest-ranked public university in the nation, UCLA is a sought-after destination for students from all walks of life who share the same goal: to be part of an academic culture that values public service. Join a diverse family of students and faculty who are here to make an impact with their life’s work. First-year freshmen and transfers, no matter where you’re from, you’ll find all the information here to get started on your journey. Let us help you take your next big step—-we're here to lend a hand. Graduate students, you’ll collaborate with faculty who are among the world's top researchers and scholars, all while developing lifelong relationships and advancing your career. We guarantee that all Bruins will be given the opportunity to discover their dream career while building lasting relationships and making connections they'll cherish for a lifetime. Choose the path that suits your needs. Study online, on campus, or part-time to fit your schedule. We have a range of options to help you discover your strengths and pursue your passions Join our campus. See what’s Bruin! Rankings #1 Public University U.S. News & World Report (2021) #20 National University U.S. News & World Report (2021) #13 Global University U.S. News & World Report (2021) Sign up for news, stories, and events from UCLA Strategic Communications Email First Name Last Name Zip Code Your email was submitted. Please check your inbox to complete your registration. You may unsubscribe at any time. Zip code is used to improve the content we share. Refer to our Terms of Use for more information on how we store and protect your data. Los Angeles 90095(310) 825-4321 Contact Directory Academic Calendar Careers Contact Us Media & Journalists Campus Campus Map Parking Campus Shuttles Public Transit Community Alumni Parents & Families Faculty Staff Emeriti & Retirees Venue & Events Conference Center & Hotel Film Production Event Planning Related Sites Athletics Extension Health Store Giving Centennial The Arts Arts Gateway Hammer Museum Fowler Museum Center for the Art of Performance Facebook Instagram Linked Twitter Youtube TikTok Snapchat © 2022 Regents of the University of California Emergency Accessibility Report Misconduct Privacy & Terms of Use Cookie Policy We use cookies to understand how you use our site and to improve your experience, including personalizing content and to store your content preferences. If you would prefer, you may set your browser to refuse cookies or alert you when cookies are being sent; however, it is possible that some parts of our sites will not function properly if you do so. By continuing to use our sites, you accept our use of cookies and revised Privacy Policy. I Accept