Indoor face covering requirements reinstated through June 13. More COVID-19 information. × Skip to main content A to Z Listing Campus Map Find People News Skip to main content University of California, Riverside Search Quicklinks Visit Events Make a Gift Campus Map Jobs Library Parking and Transportation Apply UC Riverside University of California, Riverside University of California, Riverside Search About About Overview Rankings and Facts Impacts History Visitors International Leadership Find Information for... Current Students Prospective Students Faculty Staff Parents Alumni Academics Academics Overview Undergraduate Majors Graduate Programs Colleges and Schools UCR Extension Find Information For... Current Students Prospective Students Faculty Staff Parents Alumni Admissions Admissions Overview Undergraduate Admissions Graduate Admissions International Admissions Transfer Admissions Cost Veteran Admissions Find Information For... Current Students Prospective Students Faculty Staff Parents Alumni Research Research Overview Undergraduate Research Graduate Research Centers and Facilities Library Find Information For... Current Students Prospective Students Faculty Staff Parents Alumni Campus Life Campus Life Overview Events Campus Map Arts and Culture Athletics and Recreation Health and Safety Botanic Gardens Housing Dining About Riverside Find Information For... Current Students Prospective Students Faculty Staff Parents Alumni Quicklinks Visit Events Make a Gift Campus Map Jobs Library Parking and Transportation Apply Leadership Breadcrumb Leadership Leadership and Administration UC Riverside’s administrative organizational structure features a Provost and Executive Vice Chancellor and six Vice Chancellors whose offices oversee specific areas and who report directly to the Chancellor. Chancellor UCR's Chancellor Kim A. Wilcox was appointed UC Riverside’s ninth chancellor in August 2013 and is responsible for developing and executing UCR’s strategic vision and goals by his team, in concert with the UC Office of the President, Provost and Executive Vice Chancellor, campus leadership, as well as key external stakeholders. Provost and Executive Vice Chancellor The Provost and Executive Vice Chancellor, Elizabeth Watkins, is responsible for managing daily campus operations and developing academic and administrative policies. The office works closely with the Chancellor, the chair of the Academic Senate, and the deans of UCR's colleges, schools, and divisions to formulate and realize campus goals. Vice Chancellor of Planning, Budget, and Administration Under the direction of Vice Chancellor Gerry Bomotti, the Office of Planning, Budget, and Administration oversees a wide variety of campus business, support, safety, facility, and auxiliary services. Vice Chancellor for Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Mariam Lam, Vice Chancellor for Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion, oversees the university’s efforts to create a more inclusive institution and campus climate. Vice Chancellor for Health Sciences Deborah Deas, Vice Chancellor for Health Sciences and Mark and Pam Rubin Dean of the UCR School of Medicine, leads the first new UC medical school established in more than 40 years. Vice Chancellor for Research and Economic Development Under the direction of Vice Chancellor for Research and Economic Development Rodolfo Torres, the office oversees a variety of campus research centers and research units and assists with research funding and grant proposals. Vice Chancellor for Student Affairs Led by Vice Chancellor Brian Haynes, the office oversees UCR’s large and diverse student body and the more than 30 programs that provide resources to aid students' personal, academic and professional growth. Vice Chancellor for University Advancement Interim Vice Chancellor Johnny Cruz oversees the office that enhances public awareness of UCR's achievements and generates financial resources for the university. Chief Campus Counsel Independent from the other bodies is the Office of Legal Affairs, led by Chief Campus Counsel David Bergquist. From advice in developmental policy to conflict resolution, the Campus Counsel provides continuing legal guidance to UCR’s leadership. Academic Senate The Academic Senate serves as the representative body for the UCR faculty. By definition, all faculty are members of the Academic Senate, with officers coming from a variety of backgrounds across campus. The Senate is responsible for the selection and ratification of courses, admissions conditions and faculty members. The Senate also advises the chancellor and campus administrators on some of the most critical decisions made at UCR. Related Topics Rankings and Facts Impacts History Visitors International Leadership Search University of California, Riverside 900 University Ave. Riverside, CA 92521 Tel: (951) 827-1012 UCR Library Campus Status Campus Store Career Opportunities Diversity Maps and Directions Visit UCR University Communications 1156 Hinderaker Hall tel: (951) 827-1012 email: webteam@ucr.edu Find Us Related Links Campus Return UCR Admissions UCR News Colleges and Schools Graduate Division UCR Jobs UCR Health Giving Follow Us: Privacy and Accessibility Terms and Conditions © 2022 Regents of the University of California × Let us help you with your search Enter your Search Criteria. Search Cancel