Skip Navigation Policy Search: ABOUT OU ACADEMICS ADMISSIONS & AID CAMPUS LIFE ABOUT OU ACADEMICS ADMISSIONS & AID CAMPUS LIFE SUPPORT OU VISIT APPLY NOW open my nav close my nav INFORMATION ABOUT OU ACADEMICS ADMISSIONS & AID CAMPUS LIFE NEXT STEPS APPLY NOW VISIT OU SUPPORT OU FOR YOU ALUMNI FUTURE SOONER PARENTS OU STUDENTS FACULTY & STAFF EXPLORE OU ATHLETICS NEWS & EVENTS CALENDAR RESEARCH CAMPUS SAFETY OUTREACH CONTACT OU Student Consumer Information Student Consumer Information University Services & Policies A-Z index of University services & policies Emergency Procedures Review OU Emergency Procedures Tornado Safety Information Equal Opportunity The University of Oklahoma is an Equal Opportunity Employer Institutional Equity Office Branding & Licensing Print, Web and Licensing Guidelines & Requirements Alcohol Policy (PDF) Co-Curricular Involvement Policy (pdf) Exclusive University Contracts Facility Use Policy (PDF) Facility Use Summary (PDF) Open Social Event Policy (PDF) Risk Management Policy for Registered Student Organizations (PDF) Risk Management Requirement Matrix (PDF) Travel Policy for Registered Student Organizations (PDF) 15-Passenger Van Policy (PDF) Report Your Event All Minors on Campus events must be reported to Enterprise Risk Management. Please click the button below to report your event. A member of the Enterprise Risk Management team will contact you to ensure compliance with all Minors on Campus protocols. Report Your Event Privacy Policy The University of Oklahoma is committed to respecting your privacy. Should you choose to provide us with any personal information, it will only be used by The University of Oklahoma to conduct official University business. Read the full privacy policy. Minors on Campus (In-Person) Protocols for the Norman Campus The University of Oklahoma has numerous campus locations and a variety of events that attract minors, whether sponsored by the University or by third parties. These protocols are meant to serve as guidance for these valuable experiences. Please note, these protocols may not encompass each and every encounter with a minor and should be flexible depending on the circumstances and with the approval of either a supervisor in charge of the area or facility or by the Risk Management Department in coordination with the Office of Legal Counsel. Below are the “Protocols for the Norman Campus.” Best Practices for Minors on Campus (docx) Best Practices for Minors on Campus (pdf) Minors on Campus (Virtual) Protocols for HSC (Virtual remains an option for all campus programs) Due to the unique nature of its programs, healthcare mission and patient populations, the University of Oklahoma Health Sciences Center has canceled all in person summer programs, activities, and events aimed at minors. HSC campus safety measures for COVID-19 state children of students and employees are not allowed on campus. In response to the COVID-19 restrictions, the Minors on Campus Committee has created the University Virtual Programs Aimed at Minors Protocols and Release forms that can be utilized for University sponsored programs for minors if employees wish to host activities in a virtual format. Minors on Campus Form H: VIrtual Programs for Minors Release (docx) Minors on Campus: Third Party Virtual Release (docx) University Virtual Programs for Minors Protocols (pdf) Training for OU Employees Minors on Campus training for OU employees is online through the OnPoint system. Training needs to be added to the employee’s ePAF in order to be completed. To add to the ePAF, contact your HR/Payroll coordinator for your department. Training for OU Students and Non-University Entities Training for University Students and Non-University Entities (pptx) In addition, related checklists and forms for events involving minors are collected as separate documents for ease of use and submission. Please read “Protocols for the Norman Campus” for more information about the checklists and forms. Submission information is below. Attachment A – Third Party Events Sponsor Acknowledgement. For use with Third parties. To be completed by person in charge of sponsoring the Event. Attachment A (docx) Attachment A (pdf) Attachment B – Event Protocols and Acknowledgment. For use with University and Third parties. To be completed by person in charge of sponsoring the Event. Attachment B (docx) Attachment B (pdf) Attachment C – Minors Release form (University Sponsored Events) Parent/guardian signs to approve minor’s participation in Event. Attachment C (docx) Attachment C (pdf) Attachment D – Minors Release form (Third Party Sponsored Events) Parent/guardian signs to approve minor’s participation in Event. Attachment D (docx) Attachment D (pdf) Attachment E – Group Visitation form for Field Trips/Tours Attachment E (docx) Attachment E (pdf) Attachment F – Laboratory Voluntary Release form for Minors in Labs Attachment F: Norman (docx) Attachment F: Norman (pdf) Attachment F: HSC (docx) Attachment F: HSC (pdf) Attachment G – Voluntary Mentor Research Experience in Labs Attachment G (docx) Attachment G (pdf) If your event does not relate to Athletics, please submit forms via email, fax OR mail to: Norman Campus Contact minorsoncampus@ou.edu Risk Management: Cathy Krane, cathykrane@ou.edu, (405) 325-2490 option 2 OUPD: (405) 325-2864 Title IX Office: (405) 325-2215 Athletics Contact Information Michael Beirne, mbeirne@ou.edu (405) 325-8222 Norman policy link for Form C: http://www.ou.edu/studentlife/studenthandbook Health Sciences Center Contact minorsoncampus@ouhsc.edu Risk Management: Jennie Robison, jennie-robison@ouhsc.edu, (405) 271-3287 OUHSC PD 405-271-4300 Title IX Office: Faustina Layne (405) 271-2110 HSC policy link for Form C: http://students.ouhsc.edu/FormsandPolicies.aspx OU-Tulsa Contact For Norman campus programs, use Norman Risk Management contacts. For HSC and Tulsa Administrative programs, use HSC Risk Management contacts. Risk Management Coordinator: Bob Farringer, (918) 660-3878 OU-Tulsa PD: (918) 660-3900 Title IX Office: Josh Davis (918) 660-3107 Tulsa policy link for Form C: http://ou.edu/tulsastudentaffairs/student_handbook OU Report IT! At OU, fostering an environment of integrity, respect, and the highest ethical standards is a top priority. Each member of the OU community shares the responsibility of ensuring these values are firmly upheld and concerns are promptly addressed. The reporting hotline – OU Report It! – provides a simple and anonymous way for employees, students, and community members to report concerns related, but not limited, to: Human Resources, Academics, Safety, Student Affairs, Accounting and Financial, Regulatory/Policy Compliance, Institutional Equity, Athletics and Research. The hotline is hosted by Navex Global, an independent third party, to provide an avenue to confidentially report suspected wrongdoing or unethical behavior without the fear of retaliation. Violations or concerns may be submitted 24 hours a day through the following methods: Phone: (844) 428-6531 Online: The OU Report It! website has been redesigned to make it easier to submit concerns. To make a report, select the appropriate campus below: OU Norman Campus: https://www.ou.ethicspoint.com OU-Tulsa: https://outulsa.ethicspoint.com Mobile: The OU Report It! hotline’s new mobile intake feature makes the reporting process even easier and faster. Access the mobile intake by scanning this QR code: The University of Oklahoma 660 Parrington Oval, Norman, OK 73019-0390 (405) 325-0311 Accessibility Sustainability HIPAA OU Job Search Policies Legal Notices Copyright Resources & Offices OU Report It! facebook twitter instagram youtube OU Social Media Directory Updated 12/15/2021 by The University of Oklahoma: marcomm@ou.edu