Skip to content Columbia University Irving Medical Center Find People Events Faculty and Staff Resources Give Now Search About Us About Us Facts and Figures Explore CUIMC Events Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion at CUIMC Community Development and Alumni Explore CUIMC Leadership and Administration A-Z Listing Affiliated Hospitals Campus Map and Directions Campus Resources Contact CUIMC Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion At CUIMC, we are committed to continuous improvement in providing culturally inclusive medical education and clinical care. Learn About Our Commitment Education Education Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons Mailman School of Public Health School of Nursing College of Dental Medicine VP&S Columbia Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons is dedicated to developing the next generation of leaders in medicine Learn About Our Academic Programs Research Research The Louisa Gross Horwitz Prize Columbia Technology Ventures Research Administration Columbia Clinical Innovation Lab Patient Care Patient Care ColumbiaDoctors Children's Health Columbia Primary Care Herbert Irving Comprehensive Cancer Center ColumbiaDoctors Dentistry Digital Health Services at Columbia Find a Doctor Search for a provider by specialty, expertise, location and insurance. Schedule an appointment online. Find a Doctor News News For the Media Share Your News CUIMC Update CUIMC Celebrates Columbia Medicine Read the latest news stories about CUIMC faculty, research, and events Explore Our News COVID-19 Resources for CUIMC COVID-19 Resources for CUIMC COVID-19 Information for Patients COVID-19 Campus Safety for Employees and Students COVID-19 Vaccine Information For CUIMC Employees and Students COVID-19 Information and Resources for Clinical Staff COVID-19 Vaccine Information Learn about COVID-19 vaccine availability and requirements for employees and students at CUIMC Get the Latest Information We need to know more about long COVID in kids. February 10, 2022 Share this page Share on Facebook Tweet Share on Linkedin Share by email Pediatric researchers at Columbia University's Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons are joining colleagues at 25 institutions across the country to understand more about long COVID and mitigate future impact. The Columbia team expects to receive up to $9.4 million in funding to learn about long COVID in children and young adults as part of NIH’s REsearching COVID to Enhance Recovery (RECOVER) initiative.   Most people recover quickly from COVID, but up to 40% of patients experience effects for weeks and even months after the infection has passed. In some people, severe symptoms unrelated to the initial infection can emerge. Considering the recent surge in cases, the public health impact could be significant.    “The main goals of RECOVER are to better understand what are the long-term effects of COVID, to determine what percent of children experience it, and to ultimately help those affected fully recover,” says Melissa Stockwell, MD, MPH, chief of the Division of Child and Adolescent Health at Columbia University Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons. Researchers also will identify and better characterize the symptoms of long COVID in children and young adults. Columbia cardiologists have been seeing children with chest pain, heart palpitations, and orthostasis (drops in blood pressure when standing) following a COVID infection. “Given the many unknowns of the long-term impact of COVID on exercise tolerance,” says Columbia pediatric cardiologist Erika Berman Rosenzweig, MD, “some children are referred to cardiologists to assess return to sports.” Related: Long-Haul COVID: Columbia Physicians Review What’s Known   One teenager seen by Columbia immunologist Joshua Milner, MD, had chest pain for weeks after contracting COVID. The teenager then began fainting repeatedly and developed abdominal pain prompting extensive evaluation. She has largely recovered, but is still not back to her former baseline health a year later. “This was a jarring course of events, and she is just one example of what we are seeing,” says Milner.    As one of 10 pediatric/perinatal teams in the NIH initiative, Columbia will help recruit 20,000 children and young adults, including those with long COVID, those who recovered completely, and those who never had COVID. Parents and caregivers also will be recruited.    The RECOVER initiative’s national study of tens of thousands of individuals in support of large-scale studies on the long-term effects of COVID-19—involving more than 100 researchers —was launched with a $470 million award from the NIH.  According to the CDC, children with long COVID have symptoms similar to adults, namely tiredness or fatigue, headache, insomnia, trouble concentrating, muscle and joint pain, and cough. But they may have trouble describing what they are experiencing.   “RECOVER research can help everyone,” says Stockwell. References Columbia Pediatrics RECOVER Research Team  Principal Investigator: Melissa Stockwell, MD MPH, chief of the Division of Child and Adolescent Health in the Department of Pediatrics and associate professor of pediatrics (Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons) and of population and family health (Mailman School of Public Health)   Co-Principal Investigator: Erika Berman Rosenzweig, MD, director of the Pulmonary Hypertension Comprehensive Care Center, vice chair of clinical/translational research in the Department of Pediatrics, and professor of pediatrics (in medicine) at Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons Co-Principal Investigator: Joshua Milner, MD, chief of the Division of Pediatric Allergy, Immunology, & Rheumatology and professor of pediatrics (in the Institute for Genomic Medicine) at Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons  Columbia University Irving Medical Center NewYork-Presbyterian About Us Careers News Education Patient Care Research Resources at CUIMC Columbia University Irving Medical Center 630 West 168th Street New York, NY 10032 United States Follow Us Facebook Twitter YouTube LinkedIn Instagram Back to top