Skip Navigation Texas A&M University at Galveston Find info for: Future Students Future Students Current Students Faculty & Staff Former Students Visitors Veterans University Catalog Phonebook Calendar A-Z List Search MENU About TAMUG Academics Admissions Campus Life Giving Research Search Future Students Current Students Faculty & Staff Administration Directions A Wave of Change HOWDY Portal Select Web or People Web People Search Menu Home About Academics Administration Admissions Campus Life Giving Research Directions A Wave of Change Phonebook Calendar Info For: Future Students Current Students Faculty & Staff Former Students Visitors Veterans Lead by Example We’ve always known what it’s like to lead by example, but now it’s time to show the world what our leadership can do. OFFICE OF THE VICE PRESIDENT/COO Executive Leadership Academic Affairs Texas A&M Maritime Academy 2020-2025 Strategic Plan Leadership The Texas A&M University Galveston campus's (TAMUG) leadership promotes excellence and integrity in every facet of University life. Excellence at TAMUG means that we provide a first rate education worthy of the A&M diploma and aggie ring, while developing personal qualities of leadership, ethics, integrity, and respect. Excellence also means that we provide a campus environment that is safe, clean, and vibrant – including outstanding student services, housing and food services. We have opened the door to the final phase of Vision 2020: Creating a Culture of Excellence. The Strategic Plan 2016-2020 speaks to the unique nature of our campus. Texas A&M University Galveston campus is committed to accountability in its pursuit of excellence. The university expects to be held to the highest standards in its use of resources and in the quality of the educational experience. The administration of Texas A&M University Galveston campus, under the leadership of Col. Michael E. Fossum '80, Chief Operating Officer (TAMUG) and Vice President (TAMU), is comprised of the following: All academic units, research, diversity, Student Enrollment Services and IT report to the Executive Associate Vice President for Academic Affairs and Chief Academic Officer. Six administrative units including Student Affairs, Administration and Auxiliary Services, Marine Education Support and Safety operations, Texas A&M Maritime Academy, Marketing and Communications as well as Finance and Compliance, report to the Vice President and COO. The Associate Vice President for Administration and Auxiliary Services is responsible for oversight of Human Resources, University Police, the Bookstore and outsourced dining and facility services operations. Executive Leadership The executive leadership of Texas A&M University at Galveston strives to ensure that our island campus continues to be a first class institution where our students, faculty, and staff help our students grow, lead and become our future area, state and global leaders and decision-makers. At the helm is COL Michael E. Fossum '80, Vice President (TAMU), Chief Operating Officer (TAMUG), and Superintendent (TAMMA). Supporting him is Dr. Patrick Louchouarn , Associate Provost (TAMU), and Executive Associate Vice President for Academic Affairs and Chief Academic Officer (TAMUG) to provide, support and grow the institution's academic leadership, innovation and research. The Campus leadership teams are proud to embody and instill our Core Values in each of our Aggies by the Sea, and are honored to be a part of this transformational time in our students' lives. Executive Leadership team Academic Leadership team Organizational Chart Academic Affairs With a goal of helping our students graduate faster and with lower debt, TAMUG is committed to providing a modern and efficient student learning experience founded on academic excellence. We pledge to uphold the Aggie tradition and standards and contribute to a dynamic student learning community. Office of Academic Affairs Academic Departments Research Office Texas A&M Maritime Academy & the Corps of Cadets The mission of the Texas A&M Maritime Academy is to provide the maritime industries of the State of Texas and the United States with highly trained and professional U.S. Coast Guard licensed Merchant Officers (deck/engine) to serve on ocean-going and inland waterways vessels. To meet this mission, the Texas A&M Maritime Academy includes a Corps of Cadets. The purpose of the Corps of Cadets is: To develop leaders of character dedicated to serving the greater good. Partnered with the Office of the Commandant of the Corps of Cadets is the Navy ROTC program, which provides the opportunity for qualified Cadets to commission and serve in the Strategic Sealift Officers (SSO) program. Cadets also have the option to request active duty in the U.S. Navy, U.S. Marine Corps (Platoon Leaders Course – PLC) or a direct commission in the U.S. Coast Guard. Academic Program and Officer Development Support University Standing Committees TAMUG Committees Administrative Offices on Campus: Office of Academic Affairs Administration and Auxiliary Services Bookstore Campus Police Compliance Development Office Dining Diversity Facility Services Finance & Budget Human Resources Information Technology Marine Education Support & Safety Operations Marketing & Communications Research & Graduate Studies Student Affairs © 2021 Texas A&M University at Galveston Mailing Address: P.O. Box 1675, Galveston, Texas 77553 Physical Address: 200 Seawolf Parkway, Galveston, TX 77554 Shipping Address: 1001 Texas Clipper Road, Galveston, TX 77554 Site Policies Back to top