Georgetown University Open Search Form Who We Are The Whole Person Our Catholic & Jesuit Heritage Our History Student Stories Faculty Stories Alumni Stories Campus & City Living in DC Opportunities Getting Around Service & Action Campus Life Housing On-Campus Dining Clubs & Organizations Arts & Culture Community & Diversity Student Life Blog Wellness & Safety Sports & Fitness Health Center Safety & Emergency Preparedness Athletics External Link Academic Life Restless Inquiry Our Schools Areas of Study Study Abroad Research Centers and Programs Global Initiatives External Link Library System Admissions & Aid Undergraduate Admissions External Link Graduate Admissions Financial Aid External Link Commitment to Access News Events Giving Alumni Info For Students Faculty Staff/AAP Alumni Parents Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Content Skip to Footer News Events Giving Alumni Info For Students Faculty Staff/AAP Alumni Parents Georgetown University Who We Are The Whole Person Our Catholic & Jesuit Heritage Our History Student Stories Faculty Stories Alumni Stories Campus & City Living in DC Opportunities Getting Around Service & Action Campus Life Housing On-Campus Dining Clubs & Organizations Arts & Culture Community & Diversity Student Life Blog Wellness & Safety Sports & Fitness Health Center Safety & Emergency Preparedness Athletics External Link Academic Life Restless Inquiry Our Schools Areas of Study Study Abroad Research Centers and Programs Global Initiatives External Link Library System Admissions & Aid Undergraduate Admissions External Link Graduate Admissions Financial Aid External Link Commitment to Access Open Search Form Georgetown University Home Academic Life Our Schools Our Schools Chapter Menu Top Anchor Jump to… Expand Navigation Georgetown College Georgetown Law Graduate School of Arts & Sciences Biomedical Graduate Education McCourt School of Public Policy McDonough School of Business School of Continuing Studies School of Medicine School of Nursing and Health Studies Walsh School of Foreign Service Georgetown University Qatar Georgetown College Anchor Georgetown College Founded in 1789 as the nation’s first Catholic institution of higher learning, Georgetown College is committed to the Jesuit traditions of an integrated education and of productive research in the natural sciences, humanities, social sciences and fine arts. Dean Rosario Ceballo Rosario (Rosie) Ceballo is Dean of Georgetown College. She is also appointed as a Professor of Psychology and an affiliate of the Women’s and Gender Studies program at Georgetown University. Dr. Ceballo received her B.A. in Psychology from Yale University and her Ph.D. in Clinical and Developmental Psychology, as well as a Graduate Certificate in Women’s Studies, from the University of Michigan. She came to Georgetown after being on the faculty at the University of Michigan for 26 years. While at Michigan, she served as Chair of the Women’s and Gender Studies Department and as Associate Dean for the Social Sciences in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts. Her research relies on a resilience framework to investigate how contextual aspects of living in poverty, such as exposure to community violence, influence children and adolescents’ academic and psychological functioning. Using quantitative and qualitative methods, her most recent work focuses on Latino families and examines after-school activity participation, parent-child relationships and Latino cultural values as risk and protective factors. A second area of research investigates the experience of infertility among racial/ethnic minority women and examines how women cope with race- and class-based stereotypes about reproduction. Dr. Ceballo has published extensively across clinical, community, developmental and feminist psychology journals and has received funding from NSF and NIH for her work. Learn more about Georgetown College. Visit the College Back to Top Georgetown Law Anchor Georgetown Law Georgetown Law students don’t just study the law. In DC, they experience it. Washington, DC, is the nation’s capital, a global hub and a lively metropolis. At Georgetown Law, students learn the law in the place where laws are made. Dean William M. Treanor Treanor came to Georgetown from Fordham Law School, where he held the Paul Fuller Chair and had been dean since 2002 and a member of the faculty since 1991. A constitutional law scholar who specializes in constitutional history, he has written extensively on the history of constitutional protection of private property and on the original understanding of the Constitution. He is currently one of the ten most cited legal historians. Treanor was a clerk to Judge Oakes of the United States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit, a speechwriter to the Secretary of Education and a Special Assistant U.S. Attorney in the District of Columbia. From 1987 to 1990, he worked as associate counsel in the Office of the Iran-Contra Independent Counsel. During the Clinton Administration, he held the post of Deputy Assistant Attorney General in the Department of Justice’s Office of Legal Counsel from 1998 to 2001. Learn more about Georgetown University Law Center. Visit Georgetown Law Back to Top Graduate School of Arts & Sciences Anchor Graduate School of Arts & Sciences The Graduate School of Arts & Sciences, over 200 years old, offers a wide variety of doctoral, master’s and certificate programs encompassing both traditional and interdisciplinary studies. Whether you’re interested in pursuing doctoral research in government or neuroscience, or exploring top-ranking master’s programs such as foreign service or public policy, you are sure to find unique opportunities in our graduate community. Dean Alexander Sens Alexander Sens is Dean of the Graduate School and Professor of Classics and Markos and Eleni Tsakopoulos Kounalakis Chair of Hellenic Studies at Georgetown University. He has been a member of the faculty since 1991. He teaches a range of courses on Ancient Greek language, literature, and culture. His research focuses on late Classical and early Hellenistic Greek literature. He is the author of six books: Theocritus: Hymn to the Dioscuri (Idyll 22) (Göttingen, 1997), Matro of Pitane and the Tradition of Epic Parody in the Fourth Century BCE (Atlanta and Oxford, 1999; with S.D. Olson); Archestratos of Gela: Greek Culture and Cuisine in the Fourth Century BCE (Oxford, 2000; with S.D. Olson); Asclepiades of Samos: Epigrams and Fragments (Oxford, 2011), The Alexandra of Lycophron: A Literary Study (Oxford, 2016; with C. McNelis); and Hellenistic Epigrams: A Selection (Cambridge, forthcoming). He is currently working on a Loeb Classical Library volume that will include Nicander, Aratus, and Lycophron. Learn more about the Graduate School of Arts and Sciences. Visit the Graduate School Back to Top Biomedical Graduate Education Anchor Biomedical Graduate Education Georgetown’s Biomedical Graduate Education (BGE) is home to over 900 trainees studying in a variety of PhD, master’s, certificate, and postdoctoral programs in interdisciplinary basic and translational biomedical science, health science, data informatics, policy, and ethics, and industry science. Our students have access to Georgetown’s renowned faculty and experts from the local community for personalized mentoring, internships, and networking. Our programs teach the skills necessary for a career in science while helping students demonstrate to schools and employers what makes them unique. Anna Tate Riegel Anna Tate Riegel, PhD, is senior associate dean of Biomedical Graduate Education. She is the Celia Rudman Fisher Endowed Professor of Oncology and Pharmacology and a member of Georgetown Lombardi Comprehensive Cancer Center. Riegel has been a cancer researcher for more than 25 years with a laboratory that focuses on the genetic and epigenetic mechanisms by which certain cells produce proteins that trigger formerly slow-growing cancer cells to become more aggressive and spread to new areas. As sole PI on the National Cancer Institute-funded T32 training grant at GU since 2006, Riegel has mentored 23 pre-doctoral and 13 postdoctoral fellows and also mentored several junior faculty—all of whom have gone on to positions in academia, biotechnology industry or science related policy positions. Visit Biomedical Graduate Education Back to Top McCourt School of Public Policy Anchor McCourt School of Public Policy The McCourt School of Public Policy at Georgetown University is a top-ranked public policy school located in the center of the policy world in Washington, DC. Our mission is to teach our students to help design, analyze and implement smart policies and put them into practice in the public, private and nonprofit sectors, in the U.S. and around the world. The McCourt School flagship degree is the Master in Public Policy. McCourt also offers a Master in International Development Policy, Master of Science in Data Science for Public Policy, Master in Policy Management, Executive Master in Policy Leadership, as well as other dual degree and executive programs. Dean Maria Cancian Maria Cancian is Dean of the McCourt School of Public Policy at Georgetown University. Her research considers the relationship between public policies and family wellbeing. Ongoing projects analyze the interactions of the incarceration, child welfare and child support systems, as well as the implications of multiple partner fertility for family organization and policy. Prior to joining Georgetown University she was a Kellett Professor, and served as Associate Dean for Social Sciences and Fiscal Initiatives, and as Director of the Institute for Research on Poverty, at the University of Wisconsin-Madison. She also served as Senior Advisor to the U.S. Secretary of Health and Human Services (HHS), and Deputy Assistant Secretary for Policy for the HHS Administration for Children and Families, in the Obama Administration, as a Casey Family Programs Senior Fellow, a W. T. Grant Foundation Distinguished Fellow in residence at the Wisconsin Department of Children and Families, a Visiting Scholar at the Russell Sage Foundation, and a Visiting Fellow at the Public Policy Institute of California. She received her doctorate in Economics from the University of Michigan. Learn more about the McCourt School of Public Policy. Visit the McCourt School Back to Top McDonough School of Business Anchor McDonough School of Business Through our global perspective, we prepare students to compete in today’s international business environment. Founded in 1957, Georgetown’s McDonough School of Business is home to some 1,400 undergraduates, 1,000 MBA students and 1,200 professional students and participants in our executive degree and custom programs. Located at the intersection of business, government and international relations, we are the premier destination for a global business education. Dean Paul Almeida Almeida is Dean and William R. Berkley Chair at Georgetown University’s McDonough School of Business. A member of the Georgetown community for more than two decades, Almeida has served Georgetown McDonough in a number of positions, including most recently as deputy dean for executive education and innovation and, prior to that, as senior associate dean for executive education. He also is a professor of strategy and international business. His research studies innovation, knowledge management, alliances, and informal collaborations across firms and countries. Almeida earned a Ph.D. in international business and strategy and an M.A. in applied economics and managerial science from The Wharton School at the University of Pennsylvania, a PGDM (MBA) from the Indian Institute of Management, and a B.E. in electrical engineering from the University of Poona, India. Learn more about the McDonough School of Business. Explore the MSB Back to Top School of Continuing Studies Anchor School of Continuing Studies The Georgetown University School of Continuing Studies inspires you to reimagine what’s possible. Through contemporary, hands-on programs, you’ll be challenged to ask questions, rethink traditional solutions and leave your comfort zone behind. See where Georgetown can take you. Dean Kelly J. Otter Otter’s academic career has focused on adult and professional education, utilizing her expertise in technology-mediated education, enrollment management through strategic marketing, recruitment and prospect cultivation, curriculum development, program assessment and evaluation, as well as cultivation of internal and external partnerships. She has taught in media studies and journalism programs at New York University and the University of Pittsburgh and holds a Ph.D. in arts and humanities education from New York University. Learn more about the School of Continuing Studies. Visit SCS Back to Top School of Medicine Anchor School of Medicine Guided by the Jesuit tradition of cura personalis, care of the whole person, Georgetown University School of Medicine educates a diverse student body to become knowledgeable, ethical, skillful and compassionate physicians and biomedical scientists who are dedicated to the care of others and to the health needs of our society. Executive Vice President for Health Sciences and Executive Dean of the School of Medicine Edward B. Healton, M.D., MPH Dr. Healton leads Georgetown University Medical Center in advancing its educational and research missions, and supporting patient care in partnership with our clinical partner, MedStar Health. GUMC comprises the School of Medicine, the School of Nursing & Health Studies, the Georgetown Lombardi Comprehensive Cancer Center and Biomedical Graduate Education. The medical center is home to the University’s most robust research enterprise, a broad continuum of research from basic to applied translational science. Learn more about the Georgetown University Medical Center. Dean for Medical Education Lee Jones, M.D. Jones joined the School of Medicine as Dean for Medical Education in 2021. A passionate educator, he has taken critical national leadership roles to design and advance strategies that enhance the culture of equity and inclusion at medical schools across the United States. In addition, he has been an active participant in educational initiatives designed to enhance care of LGBTQI patients, including the creation of a series of video interviews for the AAMC on the topic of enhancing institutional culture and climate for LGBT populations. Jones serves on the American Association for Medical Center’s (AAMC) Board of Directors and is AAMC’s representative to the Coalition for Physician Accountability. He is past chair of the AAMC Group on Student Affairs National Steering Committee. An expert in holistic admissions, Jones has served as a national educator on medical education and DACA, as well as for the Building the Next Generation of Academic Physicians diversity initiative. Jones earned his bachelors in a self-designed major at Dartmouth College in psychology, anthropology and education. He attended medical school at Columbia University. After completing a psychiatry residency and chief residency at UCLA’s Semel Institute for Neuroscience and Human Behavior, he entered a consultation-liaison fellowship at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center in Manhattan, followed by a research fellowship at UC San Diego. Visit the School of Medicine Back to Top School of Nursing and Health Studies Anchor School of Nursing and Health Studies Founded in 1903, the School of Nursing & Health Studies houses dynamic degree programs in the health sciences and aims to promote health equity and improve population health locally, nationally and globally. Guided by its mission, vision, and values, the school offers academic programs at the bachelor’s, master’s and doctoral levels. Our faculty comprises seasoned practitioners, researchers, scholars and teachers. Our graduates are leaders and work in academe, the government and the military, and health systems and community-based organizations, to name a few areas. Interim Dean John T. Monahan, J.D. John T. Monahan (C’83, L’87), is interim dean at the School of Nursing & Health Studies and senior advisor for global health at Georgetown. A Georgetown community member for more than two decades, John holds Georgetown academic appointments as professor of medicine in the School of Medicine, senior lecturer at Georgetown Law and senior fellow at the McCourt School of Public Policy, and has taught courses at NHS, Georgetown Law and the School of Foreign Service. Over the course of his professional career, the core of Monahan’s work has focused on addressing complex health and social service programs affecting vulnerable populations in the United States and internationally. Monahan has served in multiple leadership roles with the federal government in all three branches, and has been engaged in high-level philanthropy, academia and politics at global, national and state/local levels. Learn more about the School of Nursing & Health Studies. Visit the NHS Back to Top Walsh School of Foreign Service Anchor Walsh School of Foreign Service The Walsh School of Foreign Service (SFS), founded in 1919, is a premier school of international affairs. SFS provides a rigorous education grounded in both theory and practice while instilling the Jesuit value of service. Dean Joel Hellman As both a scholar and practitioner, Dean Joel Hellman brings to Georgetown a unique and valuable perspective from his work on issues of governance, conflict and the political economy of development around the world. He joins the School of Foreign Service following 15 years of service at the World Bank, where he most recently served as chief institutional economist and previously led its engagement with fragile and conflict-affected states as director of the Center on Conflict, Security and Development in Nairobi, Kenya. Learn more about the School of Foreign Service. Explore the SFS Back to Top Georgetown University Qatar Anchor Georgetown University Qatar Georgetown University in Qatar (GU-Q) is an additional location of Georgetown University, based in Education City in Doha. The university offers a four year undergraduate program in international affairs leading to the Bachelor of Science in Foreign Service (BSFS) degree. Students have the opportunity to select one of four majors, a minor and one of three certificates. GU-Q also provides a variety of executive and professional education opportunities and serves as a residency location for the Georgetown University School of Continuing Studies’ Emergency and Disaster Management program. Interim Dean Clyde Wilcox Clyde Wilcox is the interim dean of Georgetown University in Qatar. He is a professor of Government at Georgetown University, where he has taught for nearly 35 years. Since 2014 he has spent all or part of each academic year at the Doha campus. Previously he was a statistician at the Federal Election Commission, and taught at Union College. Wilcox writes on a variety of topics primarily in American and comparative politics, including religion and politics, gender politics, interest groups and social movements, money in politics, public opinion, electoral behavior, the politics of social issues such as abortion and LGBT rights, and science fiction and politics. He has written or edited more than 30 books and hundreds of book chapters and journal articles. He has lectured in a number of countries, spoken to international visitors in State Department programs from more than 185 countries, and has consulted with presidential campaigns, trade associations, and with citizen groups. He has also trained diplomats in the US and in other countries. He earned an MA and PhD from the Ohio State University, and a BA from West Virginia University. Learn more about Georgetown University in Qatar. Visit GU-Q Back to Top Explore More Areas of Study Academic Life Contact Us Directory Visit Maps About Academic Calendar Careers Media Resources FacebookFacebook TwitterTwitter InstagramInstagram LinkedInLinkedIn YouTubeYouTube Georgetown University 37th and O Streets, N.W. Washington, D.C. 20057 P. 202-687-0100 Georgetown University Privacy Policy Copyright Web Accessibility Notice of Non-Discrimination © 2022 Georgetown University Search Georgetown Search Close the Search Dialog