Skip to main content Search search Resources Campus Map A-Z UAccess Directory / Phonebook Future Wildcat Weather News Calendar search search menu menu I am Select your audience choose an option a future student a current student a faculty or staff member a parent or visitor an alumni member a donor a business or partner Go to the page for that group Visit Apply home home close close Search search Main navigation Admissions Admissions Overview First-Year Transfer Graduate International Online Returning Non-Degree Seeking Counselors Professional Education & Certification Academics Undergraduate Majors Graduate Programs Colleges & Schools Academic Resources Health Sciences Class Registration Libraries Global Engagement Research Research, Innovation & Impact Corporate Engagement Research Centers Resources for Researchers Research Opportunities for Students Environment & Sustainability Student Life Student Life Overview Living on Campus Things To Do Getting Involved Spirit & Traditions All About Tucson Student Stories Visit About About Arizona Tuition & Aid Leadership Purpose, Mission & Values Faculty Awards & Honors Diversity & Inclusion New Economy Initiative Strategic Plan News Alumni Alumni Association Chapters & Clubs Arizona Loyal Give Support Arizona Give Today Athletics Parents & Visitors PARENTS & VISITORS You’re part of our extended family. Get to know the ins and outs of being a Wildcat – up close and personal. Visitor Information Campus Tours Get the inside scoop about attending Arizona with a walking tour led by a Campus Ambassador. Visit Campus Arts & Museums Discover new things at one of our museums and enjoy a wide array of artistic events, including concerts, theatre, film and dance. Arts & Museums Event Calendar Find listings for public performances, lectures, community happenings, athletics competitions, activities and more. Event Calendar About Tucson Explore the wonders of Southern Arizona that go beyond the Tucson metro area. From the old west time capsule that is Tombstone to the artistic and enchanting historic town of Bisbee. Visit Tucson Parking & Transportation University of Arizona Parking & Transportation offers visitor parking information, garage locations, parking permits and more. Parking & Transportation Directions to UArizona Driving directions to the University of Arizona main campus. Directions to Campus Parent Information Family Weekend Family Weekend gives parents a glimpse of their student’s life at the University of Arizona and a chance to spend quality time with their student around campus. Family Weekend Arizona Parents & Family Association The organization that keeps parents and family members informed and involved in campus life, funds projects that benefit UA students and gives parents a voice with University administration. Parents & Family Association Commencement & Convocations Join hundreds of students and families across the UArizona campus as they come together to celebrate their achievements. Learn about what to bring, what to expect and when they take place. Commencement Campus Safety Safety is important for the entire University of Arizona campus community. Explore the resources available that enhance our students' safety and well-being. Campus Safety Career Services University of Arizona Student Engagement & Career Development supports students in all things career, whether that's creating a career plan, developing in-demand skills, or securing career opportunities. Career Services Health & Wellness for Students Comprehensive services and support for the physical, mental and emotional well-being of our students. Health & Wellness Living on Campus Explore the housing and 23 dorm options around the UArizona campus. Housing & Dorms Tuition, Financial Aid, & Scholarships View what types of aid and scholarships are available, and accept incoming loans. Scholarships & Financial Aid Footer - Main Employment Emergency Information Title IX / Non-Discrimination Campus Safety UAlert Copyright Campus Accessibility Contact Us Feedback The University of Arizona | Tucson, Arizona 85721 | 520‑621‑2211 Information For Future Students Current Students Faculty & Staff Alumni & Donors Parents & Visitors Corporations & Businesses Topics About the University Academics Arts & Museums Athletics & Recreation Colleges, Schools, Departments Diversity Environment & Sustainability Global Engagement Health & Medical Libraries Outreach & Extension Research & Innovation Purpose, Mission & Values Resources A-Z Index Calendars Campus Map News Phonebook Weather Connect Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkedIn YouTube We respectfully acknowledge the University of Arizona is on the land and territories of Indigenous peoples. Today, Arizona is home to 22 federally recognized tribes, with Tucson being home to the O’odham and the Yaqui. Committed to diversity and inclusion, the University strives to build sustainable relationships with sovereign Native Nations and Indigenous communities through education offerings, partnerships, and community service. University Information Security and Privacy © 2022 The Arizona Board of Regents on behalf of The University of Arizona.