Skip to main content Navigation Academics Admissions Research Locations Student Life Alumni & Giving Athletics Apply Now Criminal Justice (MS) Request Info Program at a Glance Program Master College(s) College of Community Innovation and Education Department(s) Criminal Justice In State Tuition Out of State Tuition $369.65 per credit hour $1,194.05 per credit hour Learn more about program tuition and fees. The Master of Science in Criminal Justice is designed to meet the needs of students preparing for careers in the field of criminal justice. The curriculum focuses on the traditional issues such as management, administrative and criminal justice theory, as well as basic research methods and descriptive statistics. The Master of Science in Criminal Justice core and elective courses focus on the complex and changing world in which criminal justice systems operate in this country and abroad. This plan of study is designed to equip future criminal justice leaders to be critical consumers of criminal justice research. The benefits of an advanced graduate degree in criminal justice are self-evident and are being increasingly recognized by employers in central Florida and throughout the United States. Federal, state, and local criminal justice agencies benefit from an informed and innovative workforce that is aware of the complex issues and problems faced by the system regardless of geographic locale. Furthermore, graduates of the program are grounded in the latest theories and learn how these theories affect each individual or organization within the system. International applicants should be aware the program may not offer sufficient on-campus courses for F or J visa holders. Please contact the program for more information before applying. The Criminal Justice MS program currently offers limited face-to-face courses. The program is offered primarily online. Contact the program for additional information. The Master of Science in Criminal Justice requires 36 credit hours, including 21 credit hours of core courses, 6 credit hours of restricted electives, 9 credit hours of general electives, and a final written examination within the Proseminar or capstone course. For students electing to complete a thesis, 6 credit hours of the general elective requirements will be thesis hours. Total Credit Hours Required: 36 Credit Hours Minimum beyond the Bachelor's Degree Please note: Criminal Justice (MS) may be completed fully online, although not all elective options may be offered online. Newly admitted students choosing to complete this program exclusively via UCF online classes may enroll with a reduction in campus-based fees. International students (F or J visa) are required to enroll in a full-time course load of 9 credit hours during the fall and spring semesters. Only 3 of the 9 credit hours may be taken in a completely online format. For a detailed listing of enrollment requirements for international students, please visit http://global.ucf.edu/. If you have questions, please consult UCF Global at (407) 823-2337. UCF is not authorized to provide online courses or instruction to students in some states. Refer to State Restrictions for current information. Request Information View Full Description Program Tracks/Options Public Administration Dual Degree Application Deadlines Domestic International Spring December 1 Summer April 1 Fall July 1 Spring July 1 Summer November 1 Fall January 15 Ready to get started? Apply Today Career Opportunities UCF prepares you for life beyond the classroom. Here, you’ll experience a wide range of opportunity, like learning diverse skills from world-renowned faculty to networking with top employers across Central Florida to gaining first-hand experience in internships nearby. Achieve your degree and more as a Knight. Chief Jailer Commanding Officer Homicide Squad Correctional Officer Sergeant Correctional Supervisor Corrections Sergeant Criminal Justice Professor Criminology Professor Detective Lieutenant Detective Supervisor Meteorological Aide Penology Professor Police Lieutenant Polygraph Examiner Prison Guard Supervisor Traffic Lieutenant Traffic Sergeant Show More Career Opportunities Degree Search College of Community Innovation and Education programs Masters Criminal Justice (MS) University of Central Florida Colleges Burnett Honors Arts and Humanities Business Engineering and Computer Science Graduate Studies Health Professions and Sciences Medicine Nursing Optics and Photonics Sciences Undergraduate Studies Hospitality Management Request Information × Enter your information below to receive more information about the Criminal Justice (MS) program offered at UCF. Loading... × The Master of Science in Criminal Justice is designed to meet the needs of students preparing for careers in the field of criminal justice. The curriculum focuses on the traditional issues such as management, administrative and criminal justice theory, as well as basic research methods and descriptive statistics. The Master of Science in Criminal Justice core and elective courses focus on the complex and changing world in which criminal justice systems operate in this country and abroad. This plan of study is designed to equip future criminal justice leaders to be critical consumers of criminal justice research. The benefits of an advanced graduate degree in criminal justice are self-evident and are being increasingly recognized by employers in central Florida and throughout the United States. Federal, state, and local criminal justice agencies benefit from an informed and innovative workforce that is aware of the complex issues and problems faced by the system regardless of geographic locale. Furthermore, graduates of the program are grounded in the latest theories and learn how these theories affect each individual or organization within the system. International applicants should be aware the program may not offer sufficient on-campus courses for F or J visa holders. Please contact the program for more information before applying. The Criminal Justice MS program currently offers limited face-to-face courses. The program is offered primarily online. Contact the program for additional information. The Master of Science in Criminal Justice requires 36 credit hours, including 21 credit hours of core courses, 6 credit hours of restricted electives, 9 credit hours of general electives, and a final written examination within the Proseminar or capstone course. For students electing to complete a thesis, 6 credit hours of the general elective requirements will be thesis hours. Total Credit Hours Required: 36 Credit Hours Minimum beyond the Bachelor's Degree Please note: Criminal Justice (MS) may be completed fully online, although not all elective options may be offered online. Newly admitted students choosing to complete this program exclusively via UCF online classes may enroll with a reduction in campus-based fees. International students (F or J visa) are required to enroll in a full-time course load of 9 credit hours during the fall and spring semesters. Only 3 of the 9 credit hours may be taken in a completely online format. For a detailed listing of enrollment requirements for international students, please visit http://global.ucf.edu/. If you have questions, please consult UCF Global at (407) 823-2337. UCF is not authorized to provide online courses or instruction to students in some states. Refer to State Restrictions for current information. Degree Requirements Core 18 Total Credits Complete the following: CCJ5015 - The Nature of Crime (3) CCJ5456 - The Administration of Justice (3) CCJ6704 - Research Methods in Criminal Justice (3) CCJ6706 - Data Analysis in Criminal Justice I (3) CCJ6106 - Policy Analysis in Criminal Justice (3) CCJ6118 - Criminal Justice Organizations (3) Capstone 3 Total Credits Complete the following: CJE6718 - Proseminar in Criminal Justice (3) Electives 15 Total Credits The combined total of Restricted and Unrestricted 5000 level electives may not exceed 12 credit hours. Restricted 6 Total Credits Complete at least 2 of the following: CJC5020 - Foundations of Corrections (3) CJE5021 - Foundations of Law Enforcement (3) CJJ6020 - The Juvenile Justice System (3) CJL6568 - Law and Social Control (3) CJL6520 - American Criminal Courts (3) Unrestricted 9 Total Credits Earn at least 9 credits from the following types of courses: Additional Elective Coursework Students should consult with the Criminal Justice adviser for approval of general electives outside of the Criminal Justice program prior to enrolling. Criminal Justice courses at the 5000 or 6000 level, not used toward core or restricted electives, are pre-approved general electives. Grand Total Credits: 36 Application Requirements For information on general UCF graduate admissions requirements that apply to all prospective students, please visit the Admissions section of the Graduate Catalog. Applicants must apply online. All requested materials must be submitted by the established deadline. In addition to the general UCF graduate application requirements, applicants to this program must provide: One official transcript (in a sealed envelope) from each college/university attended with a GPA of at least 3.0 on a 4.0 scale overall or for the last 60 attempted semester hours of credit earned for the degree. The GRE is not required for admission to this program. Statement of career goals, one or two pages indicating how the Criminal Justice MS degree will enhance the applicant's career goals and expectations of the graduate program. Résumé (no longer than two pages). Two letters of recommendation. Letters should be from professors or professional references who can attest to the applicant's ability to succeed in graduate coursework and his or her work ethic. Applicants applying to this program who have attended a college/university outside the United States must provide a course-by-course credential evaluation with GPA calculation. Credential evaluations are accepted from World Education Services (WES) or Josef Silny and Associates, Inc. only. Students should be aware that admission to any graduate program is granted on a competitive basis. There may be cases where students meeting minimum requirements are denied admission based on such factors as program capacity or academic discretion. Applicants not meeting the minimum 3.0 GPA standards may be considered as candidates for very limited and competitive "provisional" admissions. However, only students with complete applications (final transcript, résumé, letters of recommendation and statement of career goals) will be reviewed under this special admission category. Competitive GRE scores are encouraged for this admission category. Application Deadlines Criminal Justice MS *Fall Priority Fall Spring Summer Domestic Applicants Jan 15 Jul 1 Dec 1 Apr 1 International Applicants Jan 15 Jan 15 Jul 1 Nov 1 *Applicants who plan to enroll full time in a degree program and who wish to be considered for university fellowships or assistantships should apply by the Fall Priority date. Financial Information Graduate students may receive financial assistance through fellowships, assistantships, tuition support, or loans. For more information, see the College of Graduate Studies Funding website, which describes the types of financial assistance available at UCF and provides general guidance in planning your graduate finances. The Financial Information section of the Graduate Catalog is another key resource. Fellowship Information Fellowships are awarded based on academic merit to highly qualified students. They are paid to students through the Office of Student Financial Assistance, based on instructions provided by the College of Graduate Studies. Fellowships are given to support a student's graduate study and do not have a work obligation. For more information, see UCF Graduate Fellowships, which includes descriptions of university fellowships and what you should do to be considered for a fellowship. University of Central Florida About UCF Contact Us Faculty Online Degrees Policies Privacy Notice Public Records Regulations Report a Concern UCF News 4000 Central Florida Blvd. Orlando, Florida, 32816 | 407.823.2000 © University of Central Florida