Skip to main content University of Washington, College of Arts and Sciences Menu Apply Contact Give UW Home Search About Diversity, Equity, Inclusion & Access Leadership Dean's Office Directory Administrative Gateway Academics What Should I Study? Arts Digital Arts & Experimental Media Fact Sheet Art + Art History + Design Fact Sheet Drama Fact Sheet Music Fact Sheet Humanities Classics Fact Sheet French & Italian Studies Fact Sheet Cinema and Media Studies Fact Sheet Asian Languages & Literature Fact Sheet Comparative History of Ideas Fact Sheet Dance Fact Sheet English English German Studies Fact Sheet Linguistics Fact Sheet Near Eastern Languages & Civilization Fact Sheet Scandinavian Studies Fact Sheet Slavic Languages & Literatures Fact Sheet Spanish and Portuguese Studies Fact Sheet Natural Sciences Biology Fact Sheet Chemistry Fact Sheet Applied Mathematics Fact Sheet Astronomy Fact Sheet Mathematics Fact Sheet Physics Fact Sheet Psychology Fact Sheet Speech & Hearing Sciences Fact Sheet Statistics Fact Sheet Social Sciences Communication Fact Sheet Gender, Women & Sexuality Studies Fact Sheet History Fact Sheet American Ethnic Studies Fact Sheet Economics Fact Sheet Geography Fact Sheet American Indian Studies Fact Sheet Anthropology Fact Sheet Integrated Social Sciences Law, Societies & Justice Fact Sheet Philosophy Fact Sheet Political Science Fact Sheet Sociology Fact Sheet The Jackson School of International Studies Fact Sheet All Departments & Centers Declaring a Major What Careers Can I Pursue? Student Experience Living and Learning in Seattle Diversity & Inclusion on Campus UW Community Student Resources Parent & Family Resources ArtsUW Research Research Projects and Initiatives Undergraduate Research Opportunities News & Events All Stories Perspectives Newsletter Subscribe Perspectives Archive/Search Events Alumni Giving Alumni Stories UW Alumni Association Search Submit Search Apply Contact Give Sign Up for the Newsletter Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube LinkedIn Search Submit Search Discover Discover Justice Discover Culture Discover Critical Thinking Discover Arts & Sciences Explore our Programs Take Our Majors Quiz We believe in Exploration. We’re a community driven by discovery. We celebrate curiosity and creativity in the classroom and beyond. We span the arts, humanities, natural sciences, and social sciences, encouraging connections across disciplines to better understand our complex world. As part of a top-tier research university, our faculty and students engage in research that matters, from social justice to climate change. College of Arts & Sciences alumni are leaders in a wide range of careers — professionals who make a difference in their fields and communities. A World-Class Education in a World-Class City Seattle is a city of possibilities. And for us, it’s our classroom and partner. You can intern with major tech companies, local hospitals, arts organizations, and nonprofit health and social justice groups creating groundbreaking change. Work alongside faculty who’ve earned top honors for their accomplishments and who use their expertise to improve the place we call home. And enjoy great food, a vibrant culture, and the natural beauty of the Pacific Northwest. Meet the Emerald City News & Events Learn about upcoming events and follow the latest accomplishments of our students, faculty, and alumni. UW is so much more than just lectures and exams. UW is about the people you meet, and the communities you become part of. Marium Raza Meet the UW Arts & Sciences Community Watch the Video Watch the Video Rome the Roller Coaster+ Study Abroad Husky 100+ Honors and Awards Social cohesion found to be key risk factor in early COVID infections+ UW News Event: DinoFest at the Burke+ June 5, 2022 In Ukraine, Language is Political+ Research 33% of Fortune 500 CEOs have liberal arts degrees Why Arts & Sciences Unmasking the Activism of Community Theater+ Race and Equity 23% of Students are First-Generation College Students Why Arts & Sciences View More Stories View More events Commitment to Diversity, Equity, Inclusion & Access We value and honor diverse experiences and perspectives, strive to create welcoming and respectful learning environments, and promote access, opportunity and justice for all. About Our Commitment Helpful Resources For Students Explore the many opportunities available to you as a College of Arts & Sciences student and learn how your Arts and Sciences education will prepare you for your future. Student Resources For Parents & Families The College of Arts & Sciences provides students with many pathways and the tools they need to succeed. Learn how. Family Resources The College of Arts & Sciences offers students 72 degree programs and over 100 majors and minors across 39 departments. Find yourself in the UW College of Arts & Sciences. I'm Ready. Apply Now Make A Difference. Give Today About Academics Student Experience Research News & Events Alumni Apply Contact Give Sign Up for the Newsletter Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube 50 Communications #353765 University of Washington Seattle, WA 98195-3765 (206) 543-5340 © 2022 University of Washington College of Arts & Sciences Privacy Terms of Use Staff Login