Skip navigation Find: A to Z Index People Directory Learn More: About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life Information For: Current Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Information For: Current Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Brown University Transportation Office Site Navigation Home Applications & Forms Biking Brown University Shuttle Brown Daytime Shuttle Brown Evening Shuttle Shuttle Tracker Website Shuttle Tracker Mobile Application Access Shuttle Brown onCall Carpooling Contact Electric Vehicle Charging Stations Parking RIPTA UPass Transportation Management Plan Zipcar B.U.S. Tracker Real-Time Locations Print this Page Share this Page Transportation Office Brown University Box 1865 69 Brown Street Page Robinson Hall, Suite 511 Providence, RI 02912 Phone 401-863-3157 Fax 401-863-1233 [email protected] Brown About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life A to Z Index People Directory m.Brown.edu News Events Visit Campus Life Map Directory Brown Apps Safety About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life A to Z Index People Directory Transportation Office Brown University Shuttle Access Shuttle Access Shuttle The Brown Access Shuttle service is primarily a reservation-based transport for members of the Brown community who have disabilities and need assistance getting around campus. The service is available Monday through Friday from 7:00 a.m. to 7:00 p.m. Saturday 9:00 a.m. to 7:00 p.m. and Sunday 11:00 a.m. - 7:00 pm. Please find the Access Shuttle OnCall schedule here. RISD community members who need assistance should call RISD Public Safety at (401) 454-6376. Who May Use Access Shuttle? Any currently enrolled student, faculty, or staff member of Brown University with a permanent or temporary disability may request this service. How to use Access Shuttle Registering For employee accommodations University Human Resources will be administering accommodation requests for faculty and staff in partnership with Broadspire, a third-party administrator. Faculty and staff requesting a reasonable accommodation will be required to call Broadspire at 1-888-599-8576. Access Student shuttle riders must register with the Student Accessibility Services Office and provide documentation of their disability and need for the service. Registration forms (an Information and Release Form and a Access OnCall Shuttle Schedule Form) and detailed information about documenting a disability are available in the SAS office (located at 69 Brown Street, Page-Robinson Hall, 5th Floor, Room 516) or on the SAS website. All paperwork must be completed and approved by the SAS Director before service use begins, however, the onset of a disability can be unpredictable and may necessitate using the service on a provisional basis while paperwork is completed. In this event, registration materials can be provided by the driver when the initial ride is requested and faxed to SAS or returned to the driver when completed. Scheduling Rides Once registered with SAS and approved to use the service, a potential rider must complete a SAS Shuttle Schedule Form. The majority of the riders using the service will need rides on a regular basis and will have a set schedule for each day of the week. Schedules will be updated per rider request. Studens should provide ride information weekly directly to [email protected] . Riders are asked to provide 24-hour notice of any schedule change. Changes are usually submitted to the Dispatcher by email or by phone at (401) 225-9572. Riders may contact the SAS shuttle dispatcher directly through First Transit for same-day changes in the event they must miss, cancel, or add a ride. Rides may be rescheduled if the driver believes there will be time in the regular schedule to accommodate the change. Pick-Up and Drop-Off Points Riders arrange specific, on-campus pick-up and drop-off points based on their needs. The timing for pick-up and drop-off may require some flexibility and patience while other riders are collected. Riders frequently use the shuttle to get to class, to move between classes, and to reach dining halls, the library, and the athletic center. Riders cannot be picked up or dropped off at off-campus locations unless it is their home address and within the OnCall coverage area. Policies Riders are expected to be on time and to provide notice if they will be late or need to cancel a ride. Schedule changes and any change in disability-related needs must be reported to the Access Dispatcher immediately. If the University remains open, Access shuttle OnCall will operate unless road conditions become hazardous. If Access Shuttle service must be cancelled and the University has not closed, the SAS Dispatcher will contact riders to alert them that the service has stopped for the day. Once service is canceled for the day, it will not resume until the next day that the University is open. In the event of an accident or emergency, the Access Shuttle driver will contact the SAS office as soon as circumstances permit. Complaints should be directed to the SAS Office at (401) 863-9588 or directly to First Transit, the Access Shuttle provider, at (401) 521-0730. Please note: If the University closes and cancels classes due to inclement weather, Access Shuttle OnCall will NOT operate. Contact Information SAS Office: Erin Karalekas, (401) 863-9588 SAS Director: Karen Andrews, (401) 863-9588 Email: [email protected] Broadspire (employees) :1-888-599-8576 Also in Transportation Office Site Navigation Home Applications & Forms Biking Brown University Shuttle Brown Daytime Shuttle Brown Evening Shuttle Shuttle Tracker Website Shuttle Tracker Mobile Application Access Shuttle Brown onCall Carpooling Contact Electric Vehicle Charging Stations Parking RIPTA UPass Transportation Management Plan Zipcar B.U.S. Tracker Real-Time Locations Print this Page Share this Page Transportation Office Brown University Box 1865 69 Brown Street Page Robinson Hall, Suite 511 Providence, RI 02912 Phone 401-863-3157 Fax 401-863-1233 [email protected] Resources A to Z Index Career Opportunities Make a Gift People Directory Quick Links Brown University Shuttle Tracker [email protected] RIDOT Traffic Updates Zipcar Brown Card Services Brown University Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-1000 Maps & Directions / Contact Us © 2022 Brown University Connect: [email protected] Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram iTunes U Google+ LinkedIn RSS Futurity