Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. International Services International Services right arrow down arrow Admissions and Arrival right arrow down arrow Cost and Finances Apply to UC right arrow down arrow Transfer to UC Exchange and Visiting Student Programs DACA Students Next Steps to Enroll Orientation & Check-in Visas and Immigration right arrow down arrow Students right arrow down arrow F-1 Students J-1 Students Faculty, Staff and Interns right arrow down arrow J-1 Scholars J-1 Interns H-1B Workers E-3 Status O-1 Status TN Status Permanent Residency Dependents Change Your Status Government Updates Visa Fees Life at UC right arrow down arrow Student Experiences Essential Resources right arrow down arrow Housing and Dining Transportation Finances Healthcare and Insurance Law and Safety Academics Student Employment right arrow down arrow On Campus Off Campus OPT (F-1 Students) right arrow down arrow OPT Seminar CPT (F-1 Students) Fellowships and Assistantships (J-1) Academic Training (J-1) Social Life Hiring, Hosting and Admitting right arrow down arrow Hiring International Workers right arrow down arrow Students Hosting Visitors and Delegations Admitting Students Using iBearcatsGlobal Credential Evaluation Taxes right arrow down arrow How to File right arrow down arrow Non-Resident with US Income Non-Resident with No Income Resident Alien with No Tax Treaty Resident Alien with a Tax Treaty SSN & ITIN right arrow down arrow Social Security Tax Refund Contact Us iBearcatsGlobal Home » About UC » International Services » Taxes » SSN & ITIN » Social Security Tax Refund Set Navigation title in component How to File Non-Resident with US Income Non-Resident with No Income Resident Alien with No Tax Treaty Resident Alien with a Tax Treaty SSN & ITIN Social Security Tax Refund Social Security and Medicare Tax Refund Some students and scholars are exempt from Social Security and Medicare taxes. This means that they can ask the government not to take money for those programs out of their paycheck. In order to qualify, you must fulfill the following criteria: You hold an F-1 or J-1 visa. You are considered a nonresident alien for tax purposes. You work on-campus, off-campus with DHS permission, or are undergoing approved practical or academic training. To claim an exemption from social security tax, you must provide verification of visa status and proof of work permission to the employer. Occasionally, Medicare Taxes are withheld in error. Nonresidents may not request a refund of Medicare Taxes on their annual income tax report. File a Refund Request Complete IRS Form 843 “Claim for Refund and Request for Abatement.” Put an address on Form 843 that will be accurate for the next 3-4 months. Attach copies of the Form W-2, a copy of your Form I-94, and proof of work permission: An EAD (for example, for OPT), Page Two of your I-20 (if CPT), or your DS-2019 (if Academic Training) If the employer was UC, copy your W-2 and I-20 / DS-2019. ‘University of Cincinnati’ is printed somewhere on both. Highlight where it says ‘University of Cincinnati’ and attach them to your documents. This is your work permission. If you are a F or J Visa holder, you also need to complete Form 8316. Make copies of the documents and keep them with your tax records. MAIL the forms with copies of your W-2 and I-94 card to the required IRS service center. This is not a fast process. Wait at least 60 days before contacting the IRS by phone to verify the status of the refund request. Instructions for Form 843 right arrow down arrow Replace this text component with your accordion's content. Instructions for filling out the Form 843 by question. Form Question Instructions Question 1 Indicate the dates that you were employed where Medicare Taxes were withheld. If you worked for more than one tax year, you will need to complete a Form 843 for each tax year. Question 2 Write the amount of Medicare Taxes that were withheld. Question 3 Place a checkmark in the "Employment" box. Question 4 LEAVE BLANK Question 5 LEAVE BLANK Question 6 Indicate the tax return on which the Medicare taxes were originally reported. Question 7 Write "Medicare Tax erroneously withheld by employer. See attached Forms 8316, W-2 and I-94." Signature Line Sign your name and put today's date. Instructions for Form 8316 right arrow down arrow Instructions for Form 8316 by question. Form Question Instructions Question A If Medicare Taxes were withheld from your paycheck and you meet the requirements described earlier, place an "x" in the "Yes" box. Question 1, 3, 5 and 7 Should be checked as "No" In the place provided under Question 5, you can write: "The employer does not provide refunds of Social Security or Medicare taxes, or provide statements on this matter." Questions 2, 4, 6 and 8 "0" Signature line Sign your name and put today's date. Include a telephone number and best time to be contacted by the IRS. UC International 7148 Edwards Center One 47 W. Corry Blvd. Cincinnati OH 45221 513-556-4278 international.students@uc.edu UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati UC International 7148 Edwards Center One 47 W. Corry Blvd. Cincinnati OH 45221 513-556-4278 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top