Skip to main content Skip to main navigation Faculty Ombudsperson Menu Baylor>Ombudsperson Welcome to the Faculty Ombudsperson Home Page Dr. Kevin G. Pinney, Professor of Chemistry, is the University Faculty Ombudsperson. Ombudsperson: 1. One who investigates complaints and mediates fair settlements, especially between aggrieved parties such as consumers or students and an institution or organization. 2. A government official, especially in Scandinavian countries, who investigates citizens' complaints against the government or its functionaries. The American Heritage Dictionary of the English Language, Fourth Edition, Copyright (c) 2000 by Houghton Mifflin Company. Published by Houghton Mifflin Company. All rights reserved. What is the role of the Ombudsperson at Baylor University? At Baylor the Ombudsperson for Faculty is a designated neutral who provides confidential and informal assistance for resolving disputes arising between faculty members or between a faculty member and the administration, especially those disputes that are not being addressed by established university procedures. The Ombudsperson is independent of the university's formal administrative structure and strives to consider all sides of an issue in an impartial and objective manner. The Ombudsperson cannot impose solutions, but identifies options and strategies for resolution of disputes. Ombudsperson What Does an Ombudsperson Do? What Does an Ombudsperson Not Do? Confidentiality Contact Information How To Record A Complaint International Ombudsman Association Show More General Information Colleges, Schools, Libraries & Research Admissions Administration Gateways For... About Baylor Anonymous Reporting Athletics Ask Baylor Bookstore Calendar Campus Map Directory Give Light Give to Baylor Illuminate Mental Health Resources News Pro Futuris Report It Search Social Media Title IX Baylor Libraries College of Arts & Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work George W. Truett Theological Seminary Graduate School Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Louise Herrington School of Nursing Research at Baylor University Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Engineering & Computer Science School of Music More Academics Undergraduate Admissions goBAYLOR Graduate Admissions Baylor Law School Admissions Social Work Graduate Programs George W. Truett Theological Seminary Admissions Online Graduate Professional Education Virtual Tour Visit Campus Annual Fire Safety and Security Notice Athletics Human Resources Marketing and Communications Office of General Counsel Office of the President Office of the Provost Operations, Finance & Administration Senior Administration Student Life University Advancement Baylor Alumni Faculty & Staff Online Graduate Professional Education Parents Prospective Faculty & Staff Prospective Students Students Copyright © Baylor® University. All rights reserved. Legal Disclosures. Baylor University • Waco, Texas 76798 • 1-800-229-5678 What Does an Ombudsperson Do? What Does an Ombudsperson Not Do? Confidentiality Contact Information How To Record A Complaint International Ombudsman Association