Skip to main content USU Home A-Z Index MyUSU Directory Search Search USU Toggle navigation Declared Students Find My Advisor Prepare for Graduation Change My Major Explore Majors Exploratory Advising Major/Career Exploration Schedule Appointment with an Exploratory Advisor Degree Finder Tool Associate Degree Advising Syllabus Other Tools Prepare for Appointment Degree Works Registration Calendar Take an Academic Break Enter Graduate School Nominate My Advisor For Academic Advisors Utah State University Academic Advising For questions regarding a recent change in academic standing, visit https://advising.usu.edu/standing. Our advisors would love to meet with you! In our visit we hope to learn about your strengths, interests, and values. We will build on your goals and experiences while working together to design an individualized semester-by-semester plan. Your personalized plan will help you see a path from where you are now on to graduation. Even if you are unsure of the major you would like to pursue, we can help with resources and ideas. As you navigate the current semester and make plans for upcoming semester registration, please continue to connect with your advisor. We have appointments open now and will continue to be available for you throughout the semester. General advising questions can be directed to 435-797-3373 or advising@usu.edu. In addition, visit https://usu.edu/covid-19 for updates, and please be diligent in monitoring all communications from the university. You are part of a caring community that’s here to make sure that you are supported. Find My Advisor Each student is assigned an advisor to help them reach their educational goals. Meet with your advisor once a semester to assist you on your path at USU. Find a Major Partner with an Exploratory advisor to discover your strengths, interests, and goals. Co-design a plan for exploring majors and careers. Learn Degree Works Use Degree Works to see your degree requirements. Partner with your academic advisor to create a semester-by-semester plan giving you a clear path to graduation. Apply to Graduate Are you close to meeting graduation requirements for your major? If so, apply for graduation at least two semesters before you plan to graduate. UTAH STATE UNIVERSITY ABOUT ADMISSION ACADEMICS CAMPUS LIFE RESEARCH CAMPUSES EXTENSION Facebook Twitter YouTube USU RSS Logan, UT 84322 (435) 797-1000 APPLY to USU Plan your VISIT Make a GIFT Find a JOB CONTACT us EDUCATION Find a Degree Colleges & Schools Academic Departments Academic Calendar Graduate School University Catalog Online Classes Library Statewide Campuses QUICK LINKS Directory Events Calendar IT Service Desk INFORMATION Quick Facts History & Traditions Recreation & Wellness Arts & Culture © Utah State University Privacy Safety Accessibility Non-discrimination Website Feedback Admin