Skip to main content Harvard University 1 site notification Latest COVID Information Search Search Quick Links Find a Person A to Z Index Menu Academics Academics Explore all programs Browse all of our undergraduate concentrations, graduate degrees, and professional certificates. Harvard Schools Academics Visit each School for information on admissions and financial aid. Explore more Harvard College Harvard Business School Harvard Division of Continuing Education Harvard Divinity School Harvard Faculty of Arts and Sciences Harvard Graduate School of Arts and Sciences Harvard Graduate School of Design Harvard Graduate School of Education Harvard John A. Paulson School of Engineering and Applied Sciences Harvard Kennedy School Harvard Law School Harvard Medical School Harvard Radcliffe Institute Harvard School of Dental Medicine Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health Professional and lifelong learning Free online courses More about academics at Harvard Campus Campus Harvard's Campus Get tickets to our next game, hours and locations for our libraries and museums, and information about your next career move. Libraries Campus Explore our libraries Arnold Arboretum Horticultural Library Baker Library and Special Collections Biblioteca Berenson Botany Libraries Cabot Science Library Countway Library Dumbarton Oaks Research Library Ernst Mayr Library Fine Arts Library Frances Loeb Library Fung Library Gutman Library Harvard Divinity School Library Harvard Film Archive Harvard Law School Library Harvard Map Collection Harvard University Archives Harvard-Yenching Library HKS Library and Knowledge Services Houghton Library Lamont Library Loeb Music Library Robbins Library of Philosophy Schlesinger Library on the History of Women in America Tozzer Library Widener Library Wolbach Library Woodberry Poetry Room Museums Campus Explore our museums The Arnold Arboretum Carpenter Center for the Visual Arts Collection of Historical Scientific Instruments Graduate School of Design Exhibitions Harvard Art Museums Harvard Forest Harvard Museum of Natural History The Harvard Museum of the Ancient Near East Harvard Museums of Science and Culture Harvard University Herbaria Mineralogical and Geological Museum Museum of Comparative Zoology The Peabody Museum of Archaeology and Ethnology Warren Anatomical Museum Athletics Work at Harvard Events Commencement Campus Harvard Commencement for the Class of 2022 Harvard Commencement for the Classes of 2020 & 2021 In Focus In Focus Explore and understand the world with Harvard In Focus is a curated examination of Harvard's research, scholarly work, and community. Recent topics include: Commencement 2022 In Focus Celebrating the Graduates Highlighting the accomplishments and celebrating the bright futures of Harvard’s most recent grads Meet this year's graduates What's inside? The Harvard Gazette's coverage of this year's Commencement Explore each School's events Mental Health In Focus Mental Health Awareness Month To commemorate Mental Health Awareness Month, the Harvard community is exploring how we cope with, manage, and understand mental health and how it impacts our lives. View the feature What's inside? Is a mobile app as good as a therapist? Bipolar breakthrough Climate Solutions In Focus Climate Solutions Faculty and students from across the Harvard community are working on ways to address climate change and its effects. Explore these adaptations What's inside? Zero-waste architecture Better batteries inspired by a BLT Explore the In Focus archives Visit Visit Visit Harvard Ideas and assistance for your trip to our campus. Tours Maps and Directions About About About Harvard Information on how Harvard is structured, explore our long history, and discover our extended community. History of Harvard About History of Harvard Harvard is perhaps best-known because of its enduring history of innovation in education. But even die-hard Harvard buffs are not likely to know all of these Harvard firsts and historical snippets. Learn more History timeline Nobel Laureates Honorary Degrees Harvard Shields Leadership and Governance About Learn about our Leadership Officers and Deans Harvard Corporation Board of Overseers University Professorships Diversity and Inclusion Endowment Harvard in the Community Harvard in the World News News The Harvard Gazette Official news from Harvard University about science, medicine, art, campus life, University issues, and broader national and global concerns. Trending News Stories News Read more news Jacinda Ardern’s forceful reminder: Democracies can die New Zealand Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern delivers warning on erosion of trust in her Commencement address, urging social media reforms and calling on individuals to reject tribalism. Harvard awards seven honorary degrees During today’s Commencement ceremony in Tercentenary Theatre, Harvard will recognize seven with an honorary degree. Humans hot, sweaty, natural-born runners Hairless, clawless, and largely weaponless, ancient humans used the unlikely combination of sweatiness and relentlessness to gain the upper hand over their faster, stronger, generally more dangerous animal prey, Harvard Anthropology Professor Daniel Lieberman said Thursday (April 12). Pursuit of joy starts with truth, Wu tells graduates Class Day speaker Michelle Wu ’07, J.D. ’12, urged the class of 2022 to hold fast to Harvard’s founding motto “veritas,” or truth. Sign up for the Daily Gazette Navigation Quick Links A to Z Index Find a Person Events Media Relations Alumni Give Now Harvard University Close About Harvard Global engagement We welcome students and scholars—wherever they might come from—and empower members of our community to pursue their academic interests, wherever those interests may lead. About Harvard History of Harvard Timeline Nobel Laureates Harvard’s Laureates in Economic Science Harvard’s Nobel Laureates in Chemistry Harvard’s Nobel Laureates in Literature Harvard’s Nobel Laureates in Medicine Harvard’s Nobel Laureates in Peace Harvard’s Nobel Laureates in Physics History of honorary degrees Harvard Shields Harvard in the Community Harvard in the World Leadership and Governance Officers and Deans Harvard Corporation Board of Overseers Endowment About Harvard History of Harvard Timeline Nobel Laureates Harvard’s Laureates in Economic Science Harvard’s Nobel Laureates in Chemistry Harvard’s Nobel Laureates in Literature Harvard’s Nobel Laureates in Medicine Harvard’s Nobel Laureates in Peace Harvard’s Nobel Laureates in Physics History of honorary degrees Harvard Shields Harvard in the Community Harvard in the World Leadership and Governance Officers and Deans Harvard Corporation Board of Overseers Endowment More Our international community Harvard’s global perspective reflects our international community and informs the impact of scholarship, research, and leadership on our campus and around the world. More Harvard Worldwide data 24% of Harvard students are international. 180+ countries are represented by Harvard students, scholars, and alumni. 5,000+ international scholars are hosted at Harvard, more than any other university in the United States. 6 million learners from 193 countries take courses through Harvard’s online learning platform, HarvardX. 69,000+ Harvard alumni live abroad. "We all recognize the value that international students bring to our campuses, to this nation, and to the world." Lawrence S. Bacow President, Harvard University At work in the world Harvard experts, researchers, and leaders all around the globe make contributions—from public health to conflict resolution—that transcend borders, forge connections, and strengthen communities. Visit Harvard Worldwide Global scholarship and languages Each of Harvard’s Schools integrates a global perspective into its curriculum and research agenda. We have more than 50 international research centers and programs on campus, spanning many fields and regions. You’ll also find more than 80 languages taught here, including Uyghur, Gullah, and Lingala. Learn about Harvard’s international offerings Global reach and impact Harvard has more than 20 locations abroad, along with numerous other initiatives, clinics, and international partnerships. Our work abroad ranges from advancing human rights through a law clinic in Myanmar to partnering with the University of Rwanda, the country’s first-ever dental school, to advance local dental education. Learn about our work abroad For international students To find more information and resources for current and prospective international students, please visit Harvard’s International Office or your School’s website. Visit Harvard’s International Office For Harvard travelers and programs Whether embarking on international travel, conducting research, or developing programming, members of the Harvard community rely on Harvard Global Support Services (GSS) for support and resources abroad, ranging from security and health to employment and research center operations. Visit Harvard GSS to learn more about support abroad International news Bridging Borders talks COVID-19 response around the world Two Harvard alumni created the Bridging Borders Project to assemble the perspectives of world leaders and exchange health policy ideas about the pandemic. Read the story Harvard addresses the challenges for international students In a Q&A session, Vice Provost for International Affairs Mark Elliott discusses the recent struggle with Immigration and Customs Enforcement over allowing students from other countries into the U.S. He also outlines the programs that Harvard has put in place to support international students. Read the story F-1 Doctors help international students to U.S. med schools A Harvard Medical School student from Tanzania is working to help other international students navigate the process of getting into a U.S. medical school. Read the story Security & Brand Report Copyright Infringement Report Security Issue Trademark Notice Website Accessibility Digital Accessibility Privacy Statement Get In Touch Contact Harvard Maps & Directions Jobs © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube 0:00 0:00