Brown University Quick Exit General Health Physical Health Acne Asthma Breast Exams Bronchitis Colds Concussion Headaches Meningitis Mononucleosis Sleep Seasonal Flu Sun Safety and Skin Cancer Stomach Flu Testicular Self-Exams Travel and Health Yeast Infection Emotional Wellbeing Mindfulness Sleep Stress Self-Care Techniques for Stress Relief Wellness on Campus Social Wellbeing Community, Connection and Coping: Remote Resources Consent Economic Stress Roommate Relationships Unlearning Toxic Masculinity Reproductive Health Abortion Adoption Amenorrhea Bacterial Vaginosis Colposcopy Erectile Dysfunction Pregnancy Gender Care GYN Visits HPV Vaccine Menstruation Pelvic Inflammatory Disease Pregnancy Tests Premature Ejaculation Prenatal Care Testicular Self-Exams Accessing Care Gender Care GYN Visits LGBTQ Health Care at Health Services Men's Health Exams Pregnancy Tests STI Testing Options Resources and Links Nutrition & Eating Concerns Eating Well at Brown Being a Vegetarian Dietary Guidelines Eating Off Meal Plan Meal Plan And Dining Information Supplements Eating Concerns and Body Image Body Image Concerns Eating Concerns Help at Brown Sports Nutrition Relative Energy Deficiency in Sport (RED-S) Sports Nutrition Accessing Care Help at Brown Worried about a Friend Sexual Health Sex 101 SHAG! Erectile Dysfunction Orgasm Premature Ejaculation Sex and Alcohol Sex Toys Sexually Explicit Media Contraception Birth Control Pills Cervical Cap Condoms Depo-Provera Emergency Contraception Fertility Awareness Method Implant Internal Condoms IUD Ortho Evra (The Patch) Ring Spermicides and Lubricants The Recent Election & Contraception Access Withdrawal (Pull Out Method) Reproductive Health Abortion Adoption Amenorrhea Colposcopy Erectile Dysfunction Pregnancy GYN Visits HPV Vaccine Menstruation Pelvic Inflammatory Disease Pregnancy Tests Prenatal Care Testicular Self-Exams Yeast Infection Safer Sex Ship n SHAG! Sexual Health and Safer Sex During Covid-19 Abstinence Condoms Dental Dams Internal Condoms Post Exposure Prophylaxis (PEP) Pre Exposure Prophylaxis (PrEP) Safer Sex Withdrawal (Pull Out Method) STIs AIDS/HIV Bacterial Vaginosis Chlamydia Colposcopy Gonorrhea Hepatitis B Herpes HPV and Genital Warts HPV Vaccine Molluscum Contagiosum Oral Sex and STIs Pelvic Inflammatory Disease Pubic Lice and Scabies Sexually Transmitted Infections Syphilis Talking with a Partner STI Testing Options Trichomoniasis Urinary Tract Infections Yeast Infection Sexual Assault & Dating Violence Get Help Sexual Assault Response Line SHARE Advocates Dating Violence First Five Days After an Assault Male Survivors Sexual Violence and Assault Sexual Harassment Stalking Help a Friend SHARE Advocates How to Help a Friend Get Involved in Prevention Interrupting the Red Zone: How we keep each other safe Culture of Respect Collective Sexual Assault Peer Education (SAPE) Help Prevent Sexual Assault Unlearning Toxic Masculinity Relationships and Communication Consent Dating Violence Learn More Common Reactions to Sexual Violence and Assault Predatory Drugs Sexual Misconduct and Title IX Sexual Violence: Key Terms Resources and Links Alcohol & Other Drugs Alcohol Alcohol and Your Body Recognizing a Problem Risks and Realities Sex and Alcohol Ways to Cut Down Other Drugs Caffeine Cocaine Ecstasy Energy Drinks GHB Inhalants Ketamine LSD Marijuana Methamphetamine Predatory Drugs Psilocybin (Mushrooms) Rohypnol Tobacco Smokeless Tobacco Smoking Cessation Tobacco Learn More Law and Policy Summary Educational Links Accessing Care Resources at Brown Off Campus Resources Calling EMS How to Help a Friend Quit Smoking How to Talk to a Friend about Drinking or Drug Use Google Tag Manager Sports Nutrition Relative Energy Deficiency in Sport (RED-S) Some physically active people are at risk for Relative Energy Deficiency in Sport or RED-S. This often unrecognized disorder can include low energy availability (inadequate caloric intake); with or without disordered eating; amenorrhea (lack of menstrual periods); and low bone mineral density. It's important to know that, in the context of Relative Energy Deficiency in Sport, disordered eating includes both intentional and non-intentional under-consumption of calories. This can occur both as a function of poor eating habits and as a function of too intense exercise. In people who menstruate, when the body perceives too great a gap between energy expenditure and energy intake, estrogen levels in the body drop and menstrual periods cease. Normal estrogen levels are needed to maintain calcium content in bone. The result of lower estrogen is that the bones become progressively more porous, resulting in ostopenia, and eventually, osteoporosis. Who's at risk? If you are a physically active person, you are at risk for RED-S. The competitive nature and strong discipline that can help make you a good athlete may also be part of the equation leading to this disorder. Competitive athletes may be at a higher risk than the more casual athlete due to a more rigorous training schedule and the "play-to-win" nature of their sports. You are particularly at risk if you participate in endurance sports, like cross-country running; aesthetic sports, like gymnastics or ballet; and sports which require formfitting uniforms, like swimming. The emphasis on a certain "look" and the perception that carrying less weight will universally improve performance lead to this risk. How will RED-S affect my performance? RED-S can impair health and sport performance. Lowered energy availability: an underfueled athlete is a slowed and weakened athlete. No matter what the sport, if your muscles lack sufficient and proper fuel, performance is impaired. At first there might just be some early fatigue. As the fuel deficit worsens, actual loss of strength and muscle size can occur as the body uses skeletal muscle in order to fuel essential body functions, like heart function and breathing. Lack of fuel can also lead to your inability to concentrate, not a quality befitting an athlete. If you are an athlete with strength losses and poor concentration, you can be more easily injured. Injuries then are slow to heal in a poorly fueled body. Amenorrhea: Loss of menstrual periods may signal a change in your body's intricate and complicated hormone system. Hormone imbalance from underfueling your body can result in lowered estrogen production. There are also other causes of lowered estrogen levels. A diminished estrogen level can have many effects; the most immediately apparent one can be bone loss. Amenorrhea can often go unreported to medical providers because of the common belief it is "just part of the training effect." We do know that the bone loss that occurs as a result of this is NOT "just part of the training effect" and can start to occur after just a few months with no period. Low bone mineral density: Loss of bone, especially if you are an athlete, can be an unfortunate setup for an injury. Stress fractures can sideline sports activity and be slow to repair if you are underfueled. Repeated stress fractures and unexplained injuries should be a red flag to further evaluate your eating and exercise patterns. Bone loss that occurs because of amenorrhea can be permanent. What are the warning signs? Physical/Medical Signs and Symptoms Amenorrhea Dehydration Gastrointestinal problems Hypothermia (cold intolerance) Cardiac abnormalities: bradycardia (low heart rate), orthostasis (abnormal changes in heart rate and/or blood pressure during positional changes) Stress fractures (and overuse injuries) Significant weight loss Muscle cramps, weakness, or fatigue Dental and gum problems Psychological/Behavioral Signs and Symptoms Anxiety or depression Claims of "feeling fat" despite being thin Exercising beyond what's expected/required Excessive use of the restroom Unfocused, difficulty concentrating Preoccupation with weight and eating Avoidance of eating and eating situations Use of laxatives, diet pills, etc." Prevention of RED-S Prevention of RED-S is the best way to stay healthy so you can enjoy participating in your sport. Try these tips: Choose an activity that complements your natural body strengths and suits you as an individual. Realize your health is more important than competitive success. Taking health risks for a perceived competitive edge will make you lose in the long run. Be wary of those who value your competitive success over your well being. According to the NCAA, weight should be de-emphasized as a factor in performance. Frequent weigh-ins, weight comments and punitive consequences for weight gain may increase an athlete's risk for the Triad. Appreciate your own healthy, active body. Don't compare yourself to others, especially those portrayed in the media. Optimal weight for health AND performance is different for everyone. Realize the thinnest athletes are not necessarily the fastest or the strongest. Think of fuel as the ultimate performance enhancer! Before choosing a weight-loss diet, consult with a nutritionist who can provide personalized recommendations to promote a healthy weight and boost athletic performance. Don't starve your bones. Part of your fuel mix should include several servings a day of good calcium sources like milk, yogurt, cheese, calcium-fortified juices and soy products. If you are lactose-intolerant, try some of the no-lactose dairy products available. Green leafy vegetables, almonds and beans also have some calcium. People who menstruate who are no longer getting periods are encouraged to consume 1500 mg/day of calcium until the amenorrhea is resolved. The best outcome appears to be achieved with a combination of dietary and supplemental calcium sources. Supplements should also include vitamin D to help increase calcium absorption. Be a role model with both your words and actions. Speak up when you hear others making negative comments about weight or body shape. Compliment friends and teammates on their talents and personality, not their looks. Take a positive attitude about fueling yourself and enjoying foods. How do I help a friend who has an eating disorder? If you are worried that a friend has an eating disorder, click for information and resources. On-Campus Resources Health Services Dietitian 401-863-3558 Confidential information or care is available through individual appointments with a Registered Dietitian. Students can discuss personal eating concerns, as well as any concerns they may have regarding a friend, a roommate, or a teammate. There are no fees for these services. University Health Services 401.863-3953 Confidential information and care is available on a walk-in, or by scheduled appointment basis. Care is available for initial, current or past disordered eating patients. There are no fees for medical care at Health Services. However, there may be fees incurred if laboratory tests, medications, specialist or emergency hospital care is needed. Counseling and Psychological Services 401.863-3476 Confidential appointments are available at Counseling and Psychological Services for students concerned about their eating issues. Guidance is also available for those who are concerned about a friend, roommate, or teammates' eating. Services include crisis intervention, short-term psychotherapy and referrals. There are no fees for appointments at Counseling and Psychological Services. Related Links Body Positive This site looks at ways we can feel good in the bodies we have. One of their slogans: "Remember, your body hears everything you think." Other topics on the web site: Size Acceptance; What do you say when everyone around you is dieting? 200 Ways to Love the Body You Have; Dieting Detox; Evaluating Weight Loss Programs: What are the Red Flags? Free subscription to email newsletter "Body Positive Pages." The Academy of Nutrition and Dietetics Articles from the AND on eating disorders, including The Female Athlete, Compulsive Eating and Anorexia. National Association of Anorexia Nervosa and Associated Disorders National Eating Disorders Association This site provides general information about eating disorders and body image concerns, tips for helping a friend and referral sources. Gatorade Sports Science Institute Go to the Sports Science Center on this site for articles by experts in exercise science and sports nutrition. Topics include supplements, hydration and sports psychology. The Physician and Sports Medicine Online The Personal Health section of this website has information on fitness, nutrition, strengthening exercises, weight control and health. About BWell: Quick Links About Us Staff Confidential Appointments Sexual Assault Response Line Workshops Peer Education Programs Health Empowerment Tools PHONE NUMBERS 401.863-2794 Health Promotion 401.863-3953 Health Services 401.863-3558 Nutrition Appointment Line 401.863-6000 Sexual Assault Response Line 401.863-4111 EMS 401.863-3476 Counseling & Psychological Services 401.863-4111 DPS Make an Appointment What is Intuitive Eating? Intuitive Eating is an evidence-based, mind-body health approach, comprised of 10 Principles and created by two dietitians, Evelyn Tribole and Elyse Resch in 1995. It is a weight-neutral model with a validated assessment scale and over 90 studies to date (Tribole 2017). It’s thrilling to see all the research and gives me great hope. Intuitive Eating is a dynamic integration between mind and body. The principles work by either cultivating or removing obstacles to body awareness, a process known as interoceptive awareness. Essentially, Intuitive Eating is a personal process of honoring health by listening and responding to the direct messages of the body in order to meet your physical and psychological needs. by Evelyn Tribole, MS, RDN, CEDRD-S Read more about intuitive eating What is The Health at Every SizeⓇ Approach? The framing for a Health At Every Size (HAES®) approach comes out of discussions among healthcare workers, consumers, and activists who reject both the use of weight, size, or BMI as proxies for health, and the myth that weight is a choice. The HAES model is an approach to both policy and individual decision-making. It addresses broad forces that support health, such as safe and affordable access. It also helps people find sustainable practices that support individual and community well-being. The HAES approach honors the healing power of social connections, evolves in response to the experiences and needs of a diverse community, and grounds itself in a social justice framework. by the Association for Size Diversity and Health (ASDAH) Read about the HAESⓇ Principles Get Involved Meet Our Staff About Us Make an Appointment Brown University BWell Health Promotion Health and Wellness Brown University Box 1928 450 Brook Street Providence, Rhode Island, 02912 Phone 401-863-2794 Fax 401-863-7953 [email protected] © 2022 Brown University Connect: [email protected] Related Offices Brown EMS Counseling and Psychological Services Health Services Social Media BWell on Facebook SHAG on Facebook BURP on Facebook Health Services on Facebook