Skip to main content Toggle navigation Search Global dropdown menu Research Support Subject Librarians Reach out to a librarian for specialized help in a discipline. Library Catalog Find books, audio and video, music scores, maps and more. Research Guides Use the best resources we have, picked by librarians. Databases There's a wealth of information to be found through our database subscriptions. Collections Print and digital collections serve as extensions of our teaching and research facilities. Research Services We're available throughout all stages of your research. Quick Links Library Search JSTOR PubMed Make an Appointment Newspapers Journals Collections Program Borrow & Renew Library Catalog Find books, audio and video, music scores, maps and more in the catalog. Borrowing & Requesting Learn how to borrow materials at Dartmouth and from other libraries via BorrowDirect or DartDoc. Tech Loans We've got everything from chargers to a professional portable recording studio. Alumni Access and Resources How to access resources, on and off-campus. Media Discover an extensive range of movies, television series, documentaries, educational programs, audio and more. Off-Campus Access Students, staff, and faculty can access most of our electronic resources off-campus. Quick Links BorrowDirect DartDoc Course Reserves for Faculty Course Reserves for Students Libraries & Spaces Study and Meeting Spaces Book a meeting room for a group or sign up to use a private study room. Hours and Locations Our hours, holiday closings, street addresses and contact information. Baker-Berry Library Our main library houses the humanities, mathematics, music, physical sciences and social sciences collections Biomedical Libraries The Dana and Matthews-Fuller libraries support the disciplines of health and life sciences. Evans Map Room Houses thousands of sheet maps, mapping software, atlases, globes & more. Feldberg Business & Engineering Library Offers support for the Tuck School of Business & Thayer School of Engineering. Jones Media Center Provides facilities & collections for researching, viewing & producing media. Rauner Special Collections Library Includes rare books, manuscripts & more. Sherman Art Library Supports the departments of Art History, Studio Art, as well as the Hood Museum of Art. About Us Hours and Locations Events Latest News Privacy Policy Dean’s Council for Equity and Inclusion Strategic Objectives Visiting & Exhibits Help Library Search Learn about signing into your account, search options and tips, getting to resources and working with citations. Research Support We're committed to partnering with you to enhance and showcase your research. Publishing Support We provide consultation focusing on opportunities in digital publishing and scholarship. Subject Librarians We have a subject librarian for your major who wants to help! Teaching Support We have librarians who specializes in your subject area and can support your students’ learning. Workshops & Events We offer a variety of events to assist you in developing skills ranging from research to programming. Quick Links Contact Us FAQs Off-Campus Access Send Us Feedback Staff Directory Login Students, Faculty & Staff DHMC & Guests Alumni BorrowDirect DartDoc Search Global dropdown menu Research Support Borrow & Renew Libraries & Spaces Help Login Students, Faculty & Staff DHMC & Guests Alumni BorrowDirect DartDoc Student Research Support Library staff are here to help you access the resources you need to be successful with your courses, whether in person or remotely. Get Help Now APPOINTMENT Schedule an in-person or Zoom meeting with a subject librarian to discuss your research or course assignment. CHAT Librarians are generally available Monday through Friday 9am-5pm. Live chat with us! EMAIL Email us your questions: askus@dartmouth.edu or submit this form. PHONE Reach us by phone at 603-646-2567. Research Assistance Your Subject Librarian Contact a subject librarian for specialized help in any discipline. Each major has its own librarian who specializes in your subject area and supports your research. Choose an available appointment time to meet with a librarian to discuss information resources that would be helpful for your paper or research project. If you need an appointment outside of the stated hours, please let your subject librarian know. Research Guides Get started on your research with sources and help brought to you by subject librarians. Publishing Your Own Work? Contact the Scholarly Communications, Copyright, and Publishing Program to learn about copyright and your rights as an author, and consider openly sharing your work in Dartmouth Digital Commons. FIND THE MATERIALS YOU NEED Living Off-Campus? Be sure to install and run the GlobalProtect VPN for full access to the Library's digital resources. Course Reserves Required course materials supplementing any purchased texts are available in Baker-Berry Library or online. Printed and electronic books are organized by course name (i.e. Use Library Search and enter ANTH.009). Scanned materials are available through your course Canvas site. Discover Dartmouth's Collections Search the Library’s print and digital collection; request copies of journal articles, book chapters and other documents from our collection using DartDoc. Discover Materials Beyond Dartmouth's Collections Not in Hanover? Use Worldcat.org to find items in libraries near you. Access to libraries and materials depends on local practices. Contact each library directly for more information. BORROWING BOOKS AND OTHER MATERIALS How do I borrow a book or other materials? Come to the Baker-Berry Circulation Desk to check out materials that you found on the shelf or requested from another library. Don't forget your Dartmouth ID, it's required! Borrow Materials from Other Libraries You can request books, journal articles, and other materials if unavailable at Dartmouth. Learn more about borrowing and requesting from other libraries. BorrowDirect allows you to search other libraries for books to be delivered to the Dartmouth campus. DartDoc is our broader interlibrary loan service, enabling the requesting and delivery of books, articles, patents, microfilm and more for your research. Dartmouth Library Baker-Berry Library Book Arts Workshop Evans Map Room Jones Media Center Biomedical Libraries Feldberg Business & Engineering Library Rauner Special Collections Library Records Management Sherman Art Library About Us Strategic Objectives Staff & Departments Subject Librarians Alumni Services Visiting & History Accessibility Library Catalog Careers Friends of the Library More About Us Contact Us 25 North Main Street Hanover, NH, USA 03755 Phone: 603-646-2567 Contact Us Give Us Feedback Connect with Us Facebook Instagram YouTube Footer copyright Dartmouth Copyright © 2020 Trustees of Dartmouth College Privacy