Skip to main content Main navigation Academics Faculty & Research News & Events Offices & Services About Us Information For Alumni Industry Partners & Recruiters Prospective Students Shortcuts Employment & Jobs Visit Us Make a Gift Search Read the latest updates on coronavirus from Harvard University. For SEAS specific-updates, please visit SEAS & FAS Division of Science: Coronavirus FAQs SearchMenu All News Stories Student Stories Student News Brief Students named as Amazon Robotics fellows Data science graduate students to participate in inaugural program By Sabrina Doshi August 12, 2021 FacebookTwitterEmailLinkedIn Two incoming students from Harvard John A. Paulson School of Engineering and Applied Sciences are among the inaugural cohort for the Amazon Robotics Day One Fellowship. The program was created to help students from historically underrepresented backgrounds to pursue masters’ degrees at Harvard University, MIT, and Stanford University. A graduate of University of Pennsylsvania, Christopher Croft will be pursuing a master of science in data science. After receiving his bachelor of arts degree, Croft interned at Independence Blue Cross’ mobile applications division, which he later converted into a full-time role as a mobile app and web developer. He then worked as a software engineering at Krozak Information Technologies and returned to school for a second bachelor’s degree in computer science at the University of Maryland. Ivonne Martinez is also pursuing a master of science degree in data science. A graduate of University of Texas (UT), she has a bachelor’s degree in mathematics and a certificate in programming. Martinez worked as a data science research intern at the University of Colorado Boulder, as well as a research and development intern at Trend Micro. She also spent time at UT pursuing research on autoencoders and serving as a student ambassador for the UT Austin Inventors Program. Croft and Martinez are among six graduate students receiving fully-funded fellowships in robotics, engineering, computer science, and related fields with Amazon Robotics. Along with their studies, fellowship recipients will also have the opportunity to participate in Amazon Robotics’ internship program. Read more about the rest of the cohort and the Amazon Robotics Day One Fellowship. Information Students Prospective Graduate Students Prospective Undergraduate Students Student Stories Harvard John A. Paulson School of Engineering and Applied Sciences 150 Western Ave, Allston, MA 02134 29 Oxford Street, Cambridge, MA 02138 Footer - Social Media Links Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn © 2022 President and Fellows of Harvard College Footer Diversity Mission Trademark Notice Accessibility Policy Privacy Policy