Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Health Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Our Services Appointments Health Topics Events Forms and Guidelines Our Organization News See All Services What's Open Now Patient Resources Quarantine and Isolation Support Coping Tools Immunization Compliance Top Services Birth Control Education Individual Counseling Primary Care Register with Disability Services Sexual Assault: Get Support STI Testing Support Groups Travel Medicine Urgent Medical Concerns Workshops and Trainings Cost of Service Overview Make an Appointment Same Day Service Emergency and After-hours Support Alcohol Body Image Concerns Marijuana Disabilities Other Drugs HIV Insurance Men's Health Mental Health and Well-Being Anxiety Depression Stress Nutrition Physical Activity Relationships Overview Academic Relationships Friendships Roommates Sexual and Reproductive Health Sleep Transgender and Gender Expansive Health Violence Prevention Prevention Consent What Is Sexual Assault? Supporting a Survivor What Is Relationship Abuse? Stalking What Is Sexual Harassment? Bystander Intervention-Step UP! Women's Health See All Events Sexual Assault Awareness Month Columbia Health Flu Season Information Virtual Naloxone Training About Columbia Health Who We Are Who We Serve Confidentiality, Patient Rights, & Patient Responsibilities Operating Philosophy Video Library Your Feedback Staff Directory Health Units Alice! Health Promotion Counseling and Psychological Services Disability Services Gay Health Advocacy Project (GHAP) Insurance Office Medical Services Sexual Violence Response Columbia Health You are here: Home Denim Day Events Past Event Denim Day Share Add to Calendar: Calendar / Outlook Google Yahoo April 27, 2022 Lerner Hall, 2920 Broadway, New York, NY 10027 Ramps Show Map Wednesday, April 27, 2022, 11:00 AM - 3:00 PM and 5:00 - 7:00 PM Participate in Denim Day 2022 virtually or at the ramps of Lerner Hall and make a statement with your denim. Tell our community that there is no excuse for sexual assault or rape, especially not what a survivor was wearing. Stop by the Lerner Ramps to grab some swag, take the Denim Day Pledge, participate in some myth-busting, and have the SVR Peer Educators take your photo for social media. You can share why you wear denim and your commitment to creating a community of compassion and accountability – where survivors are supported and not blamed after an assault. Unable to come to Lerner? You can take the pledge here and tag @SVR.Columbia on Facebook or @columbiahealth on Instagram to share why you wear denim. Learn more about the history of Denim Day. Columbia University makes every effort to accommodate individuals with disabilities. Please notify us in advance if you require closed captioning, sign-language interpretation, or any other disability accommodations. Alternatively, Disability Services can be reached at 212-854-2388 and [email protected]. Contact Information Sexual Violence Response [email protected] Upcoming Events Columbia Health Administration Wallach Hall, Suite 125, Mail Code 4202, 1116 Amsterdam Avenue · New York, NY 10027 Phone 212-854-2284 Contact Us [email protected] Internal Use Only Login to Access Follow Us Facebook Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close