Skip to main content Temple University Explore Temple’s Schools and Colleges Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Support Temple Temple University Search Site Search Full Menu Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees President History & Traditions Temple Health News & Media Offices Public Information Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Development Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Libraries English as a Second Language Certificate (Graduate) You are here Home Academics Degrees and Programs English as a Second Language Certificate (Graduate) Apply Visit Request More Info English as a Second Language Certificate (Graduate) Admissions Information Financial Aid Our Faculty English as a Second Language Graduate Certificate The English as a Second Language Graduate Certificate will prepare you to effectively work with English language learners as classrooms across Pennsylvania and the region become increasingly diverse. Upon successful completion, you will be eligible to earn the Pennsylvania Department of Education’s Program Specialist: ESL Certificate. Through this program, you will develop a foundation in English usage, linguistic awareness and second language acquisition. Coursework will train you to adapt and develop instructional materials for English language learners, as well as administer and interpret a variety of formative and summative assessments. You’ll become knowledgeable about support services for English language learners while developing cultural awareness and sensitivity. Courses are taught by Teaching English to Speakers of Other Languages (TESOL) professors with K through grade 12 teaching experience to ensure that you will be guided by experts in the field and receive a high-quality education. Each course includes fieldwork, so students have frequent opportunities to employ their new concepts and skills by teaching English language learners. In addition, graduate students can apply these course credits to Temple University’s MSEd in Teaching English to Speakers of Other Languages (TESOL). The ESL certificate can be added to any valid Pennsylvania Instructional I or II teaching certificate. However, to obtain a position as an ESL teacher in a public school, you must be certified in early childhood education, middle grades English or secondary English. If you are certified in other middle grades or secondary content areas, you should take the Praxis II for English to add this credential. Delivery Method Students may begin this 12-credit certificate program during the fall, spring, or summer sessions in one academic year (September–May), over one, 12-week summer session and the fall term (May–December), or over the spring term and one, 12-week summer session (January–August). It is not recommended that students take all four courses during one, 12-week summer session. To accommodate practicing teachers and professionals, classes for in-person sections of the courses are held once a week in the evening. Courses are offered in an asynchronous, online format. This program can be completed on a part time basis and must be finished in four years. Each course has a mandatory fieldwork component. Students can complete their fieldwork requirements in their own schools or they can receive field placement assistance from the College of Education and Human Development’s Office of Field Placement and Professional Experiences. Classes & Curriculum The English as a Second Language Graduate Certificate requires completion of four courses. It is recommended, but not required, that students take the courses in the following order. Foundations of Language Teaching: Meeting the Needs of English Language Learners Contexts for Teaching and Learning Language Multilingual Students’ Literacy Development Designing Assessment and Curriculum for Multilingual Students See a full list of requirements. Field Experience As part of your academic program, you will gain firsthand knowledge in classrooms through immersive field placements. Clearance Requirements Students enrolled in courses that require fieldwork or internships must submit updated child abuse, criminal and drug clearances every year. Learn more about submitting clearance requirements. Tuition & Fees In keeping with Temple’s commitment to access and affordability, this Graduate Certificate offers a competitive level of tuition with multiple opportunities for financial support. Tuition rates are set annually by the university and are affected by multiple factors, including program degree level (undergraduate or graduate), course load (full- or part-time), in-state or out-of-state residency, and more. These tuition costs apply to the 2021–2022 academic year. Pennsylvania resident: $966.00 per credit Out-of-state: $1,329.00 per credit Learn more about our tuition and fees. Careers Graduates of this program lead classes for ESL students in kindergarten through grade 12, as well as adult learners in public and private schools, community organizations, private language institutes and more. Graduates are also content area teachers in diverse classrooms from kindergarten through grade 12. Please note that teaching in a public school requires a Pennsylvania Instructional I or II teaching certificate. Related Graduate Programs Education PhD with a concentration in Applied Linguistics Teaching English to Speakers of Other Languages (TESOL) MSEd Secondary Education MEd with a concentration in English Education Secondary Education MEd with a concentration in Word Languages Related Graduate Certificates English Language Teaching Program Contact Di Liu, assistant professor of instruction, is the program coordinator for the English as a Second Language Certificate (Graduate). Phone: 215-204-4885 Email: diliu@temple.edu Our Advisors A faculty program coordinator provides academic support and helps students navigate the certificate program. Certification This program is approved by the Pennsylvania Department of Education as leading to English as a Second Language Certification (preK through grade 12). Questions For more information about this program, the College of Education and Human Development, how to apply for admission, and your application status, contact Enrollment Management. Enrollment Management Ritter Annex 150 1301 Cecil B. Moore Ave. Philadelphia, PA 19122 Phone: 215-204-8011 Email: educate@temple.edu ED-ENSL-GRAD Additional Program Information Visit College Site View Program Details Go back to AcademicsMore in English as a Second Language Certificate (Graduate) Admissions Information Financial Aid Our Faculty Apply Visit Request More Info Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Calendar Policies Social Media TUportal TUmail Accessibility Careers at Temple Safety & Emergency Information Ethics & Compliance Privacy Statement Professional Licensure Disclosures Follow Temple University Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community. Apply Visit Request More Info