Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Law School Students Employers Alumni Search BC.edu Links The Rappaport Center Menu Main Nav The Rappaport Center for Law and Public Policy Join Mailing List Back Back Close About Events Fellows Visiting Faculty News Join Mailing List Close Directory A to Z Listing Search BC Law Search BC.edu Find pages or people Search Close Close Apply Visit Give bc.edu Students Employers Alumni BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close The Rappaport Center for Law and Public Policy is deeply saddened by the passing of beloved Founder Jerry Rappaport. Read the Statement News from the Center The Race Is On Rappaport Center hosts forum for three state attorney general candidates. A Restorative Justice Advocate Rachael Rollins speaks at Rappaport conference on building legal bridges with communities. Inside Justice Brown's Hearings Rappaport Visiting Professor Doug Jones helped guide nominee toward confirmation. More News Upcoming Events Event Archive Rappaport Visiting Professor Doug Jones Doug Jones, former U.S. Senator of Alabama and U.S. Attorney for the Northern District of Alabama, is the Jerome Lyle Rappaport Distinguished Visiting Professor in Law and Public Policy for the 2022 Spring term. He is teaching a seminar entitled, “The United States Senate Today: How It Works; Why It Doesn’t,” which is a real-time study of the day-to-day workings of the United States Senate. In addition to teaching a seminar, Senator Jones delivered a community address on the state of American democracy and will participate in additional lectures and panel discussions throughout the semester. More From BC Law Magazine 2021-2022 Senior Fellows in Residence The Rappaport Center for Law and Public Policy welcomed two Senior Fellows in the academic year 2021-2022, each of whom delivered a community address and met with students, faculty, and staff, among other activities. The Senior Fellows were: Iván Espinoza-Madrigal, Executive Director of Lawyers for Civil Rights (Fall 2021), and Jeremy Orr, Director of Litigation and Advocacy Partnerships at Earthjustice (Spring 2022). Learn More 2021 Rappaport Fellows Meet the 2021 Rappaport Center Law and Public Policy cohort of Fellows, law students who are passionate and committed to bettering communities in diverse areas, including education, access to justice, racial equality, housing, public health, and more. Meet the 2021 Fellows Greater boston debate series Recognizing that communities consist of diverse residents with diverse perspectives, the Rappaport Center for Law and Public Policy at Boston College Law School and the Rappaport Institute for Greater Boston at Harvard Kennedy School launched an annual debate series to explore how problems and solutions must be addressed in a multi-dimensional way. The goal is to provide space for productive, deep, and sometimes messy, dialogues about affecting change on issues such as criminal justice reform, transportation, housing, education, and more. Debate series website About the Center About the Center The Rappaport Center Blog Boston City Councilor Michelle Wu and the Truth of “Pie-in-the-Sky” Ideas By Jessica Rahmoune Rappaport Law and Public Policy Alumna Fellow and current City Councilor Michelle Wu is a household name here in Boston. A graduate of Harvard College and ... August 13, 2021 Rappaport Center for Law and Public Policy And To Think that We Saw It on Washington Street By Brendan Kelly “Just do it.” The slogan made famous by Nike over the past three decades is one Bill Walczak has been living far longer than that. Dropping out of Boston Univ... July 26, 2021 Rappaport Center for Law and Public Policy “The job is never done:” Somerville Mayor Joseph Curtatone on his 9-Term Legacy by Ryan Kenney Somerville Mayor Joseph Curtatone once stressed in a community address that “the hardest thing to do in government is to achieve long-term challenges and goals.... July 13, 2021 Rappaport Center for Law and Public Policy Chief Justice Kimberly S. Budd Calls for Humility in Leadership by Jacqueline Dagle When you imagine the personality of a Chief Justice, there are several attributes that come to mind: intelligent, thoughtful, driven, to name a few. An att... July 01, 2021 Rappaport Center for Law and Public Policy A Conversation with District Attorney Rachael Rollins by Briana Broberg District Attorney Rachael Rollins is incredibly passionate. You don’t need to spend more than a moment with her for that to become clear, but we Rappap... June 28, 2021 Rappaport Center for Law and Public Policy Meeting with Massachusetts Attorney General Maura Healey By Ian Ramsey-North A Rappaport Fellow asked Attorney General Healey if there was a moment when she realized her vocation was public service. She paused for a moment and then ... June 08, 2021 Rappaport Center for Law and Public Policy Boston City Councilor Michelle Wu and the Truth of “Pie-in-the-Sky” Ideas By Jessica Rahmoune Rappaport Law and Public Policy Alumna Fellow and current City Councilor Michelle Wu is a household name here in Boston. A graduate of Harvard College and ... August 13, 2021 Rappaport Center for Law and Public Policy And To Think that We Saw It on Washington Street By Brendan Kelly “Just do it.” The slogan made famous by Nike over the past three decades is one Bill Walczak has been living far longer than that. Dropping out of Boston Univ... July 26, 2021 Rappaport Center for Law and Public Policy “The job is never done:” Somerville Mayor Joseph Curtatone on his 9-Term Legacy by Ryan Kenney Somerville Mayor Joseph Curtatone once stressed in a community address that “the hardest thing to do in government is to achieve long-term challenges and goals.... July 13, 2021 Rappaport Center for Law and Public Policy VIEW MORE POSTS VIEW LESS POSTS Share Your Thoughts Stay Connected Job Postings Subscribe to Our Newsletter Back To Top Back To Top The Rappaport Center for Law and Public Policy Barat House 885 Centre Street, Newton, MA 02459 rappaport@bc.edu 617-552-4345 (Career Services) About BC Law Admission Academics & Faculty Centers Careers Student Life Contact Consumer Information (ABA Standard 509 Disclosures) BC Forward: University updates on 2021-22 academic year apply now JD Program LLM Program Connect Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube LinkedIn Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College