Skip to content Georgia Tech-Shenzhen Main Menu About A Brief Introduction | Engineering Study Abroad Milestone Events Student Life Annual Safety Security Report Academics Courses Academic Calendars Current GT Students Transient Students Graduate Programs MS Analytics MS Computer Science MS Electrical and Computer Engineering MS Environmental Engineering Master of Industrial Design Exchange To GT-Atlanta MS Analytics MS CS MS ECE MS ENVE Master of Industrial Design To GT-Shenzhen To GT-Lorraine Faculty Georgia Tech Faculty with Rotational Assignment to Shenzhen Faculty Positions Financial Scholarships Coulter Scholarships Merit-Based Scholarships NACA Scholarships Tuition and Fees Industry FAQ FAQ on Admission FAQ on Financial Matters FAQ on Programmatic Issues FAQ on GT MS Degree FAQ on PhD Ugrad Summer Contact Us Search Search for: Search Exchange to GT-Atlanta for MS Analytics Program Master of Science in Analytics students who matriculate through GT-Shenzhen must spend their first two semesters at GT-Shenzhen. A student who wishes to exchange to GT-Atlanta before graduation must declare the intent to exchange during the semester prior to the exchange semester and be in good academic standing (minimum GPA of 2.7 out of 4.0) and good disciplinary standing. The opportunity to exchange is not guaranteed; the MSA program directors will review the applications as well as the capacity on the Atlanta campus and decide which students will be allowed to exchange. The MSA program may interview the applicants as part of this process. Exchange students come to Atlanta on F-1 student visa and are expected to pay the standard out-of-state MSA tuition and fees for the Atlanta semester. Exchange students who are sponsored by a foreign government or institution can only come to the US on J-1 visa. Students may have the following exchange (to Atlanta) options. Exchange to Atlanta for one academic semester. Complete the first 24 or more credit hours in Shenzhen and study in Atlanta during the following fall or spring semester. F-1 visa holders must maintain full-time student registration of 12 credit hours during the academic semester in Atlanta. This option is not recommended for the summer semester, as course availability will be very limited. On-campus dormitory space is generally not available to exchange students during the fall or spring semester. Exchange to Atlanta for two academic semesters. Complete the first (no more than) 21 credit hours in Shenzhen and study in Atlanta during the following fall & spring or spring & fall semesters. F-1 visa holders must maintain full-time student registration of 12 credit hours during the academic semesters in Atlanta. This option will be limited to a small number of students, and subject to the space availability on the Atlanta campus. Students must declare their exchange option when they apply for exchange, and the I-20 form will reflect the intended duration of stay in Atlanta and the financial resources that are required. In the above description, the number of completed credit hours refers to those credit hours that can count towards your GT-Shenzhen MSA degree requirements. To apply for exchange, the student should email gtshenzhen-msa@nullisye.gatech.edu at least 2 months before the end of the second semester with the following information: Name, GTID, option choice, and which semester(s) the student wishes to study in Atlanta. Note that while GT-Shenzhen students are given the opportunity to exchange to GT-Atlanta, the decision to grant the US visa or not resides with the visa officer. No matter whether the exchange student comes to Atlanta for one or two semesters, F-1 students are allowed to arrive in the US for up to 30 days prior to the start of the semester to settle in and are allowed to remain in the US for up to 60 days for travel and leisure following the completion of the degree program. Students who have completed the MS degree program in Shenzhen are allowed to participate in the graduation ceremony in Atlanta if they can secure a proper US visa (such as a tourist visa). Exchange Exchange to GT-Atlanta for MS Analytics Program Exchange to GT-Atlanta for MS CS Program Exchange to GT-Atlanta for MS ECE Program Exchange to GT-Atlanta for MS ENVE Program To GT-Shenzhen Faculty Georgia Tech Faculty with Rotational Assignment to Shenzhen Faculty Positions Upcoming Events There are no upcoming events at this time. Contact the Institute Directory Offices Campus Map Apply Support / Give Log in Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue, Atlanta, GA 30332 404-894-2000 Emergency Information Legal & Privacy Information Human Trafficking Notice Accessibility Accountability Accreditation Employment ©2022 Georgia Institute of Technology