Skip navigation Information For: Current Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Brown University Brown Grad School About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life A to Z Index People Directory Graduate School Academics & Research Rules & Regulations Academic Code Graduate School Skip to Navigation Academic Code All incoming graduate students are required to take an online course on the rules of conduct defined in the Academic Code, Graduate Student edition and the Student Conduct Code, which pertains to all students. The Graduate School is in communication with new students about the online tutorial. The Academic Code booklet was updated in 2007 to more distinctly reflect the academic issues faced by graduate students. The Code remains a work in progress as the deans of the Graduate School and other University officials coordinate and re-evaluate some of its details and the specifics of its implementation. If students have any questions regarding academic regulations, they should contact the Dean of the Graduate School immediately; for questions regarding student conduct, contact the Associate Dean and Director of Student Support Services; for questions regarding research policies and regulations, contact the Vice President for Research. From the Academic Code... Academic achievement is evaluated on the basis of work that a student produces independently. A student who obtains credit for work, words, or ideas which are not the products of his or her own effort is dishonest. Such dishonesty undermines the integrity of academic standards of the University. Infringement of the Academic Code entails penalties ranging from reprimand to suspension, dismissal or expulsion from the University. Brown students are expected to tell the truth. Misrepresentation of facts, significant omissions or falsifications in any connection with the academic process (including Change of Course permits, the academic transcript, or applications for training or employment) are violations of the Code. This policy also applies to alumni, insofar as it relates to Brown transcripts and other records of work at Brown. Misunderstanding the Code will not be accepted as an excuse for dishonest work. If a student has questions on any aspect of the Academic Code as it relates in a particular course or as it may be interpreted in practice, he or she should consult the instructor in the course or one of the deans of the Graduate School so as to avoid the serious charge of academic dishonesty. Home About the Graduate School Healthy Brown FAQs for Graduate Students Academics & Research Ph.D. Requirements Master's Requirements Fields of Study Post-Baccalaureate Research Education Program (PREP) Fifth-Year Master's Degree Concurrent Bachelor's/Master's Degrees Distinctive Opportunities Graduate Advising and Mentoring Rules & Regulations Student Status Issues Activities Outside of Stipended Appointments Course Registration Research Professional Development Training Opportunities, Events & Tools Partnerships & Exchanges Living & Resources Financing & Support Admitted Students & Orientation Application Information For Graduate Students For Faculty and Staff Related Items Admitted Students Student Conduct Code Brown University Brown University Graduate School Box 1867 Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-2600 Maps & Directions / Contact Us / Accessibility © 2022 Brown University Resources Graduate School Handbook Academic Code CareerLAB Brown University Writing Center Sarah Doyle Center for Women and Gender Sheridan Center for Teaching & Learning Top Destinations Admission Inquiry Form Commencement Five-Year Ph.D. Support Open Graduate Education External Funding Application Process International Applicants