Skip to main content SMU Explore SMU Academics Student Affairs About News Events Calendar SMU Research Bush Center Current Students Alumni Faculty & Staff Apply to SMUGIVE NOW Undergraduate Admission Apply Visit Financial Aid Menu Search Undergraduate Admission Connect Parent Information Parent Information Connect Meet Your Admission Counselor School Contacts Request Information High School Counselor Information Parent Information Social Media and Zoom Backgrounds Frequently Asked Questions Publications Student Ambassadors Coronavirus (COVID-19) Updates Incoming And Current Prospective Student Publications Wallpapers Mustang Strong. See information on COVID-19 for the SMU community here. An exciting time in your student’s life. We are here for you. In this rapidly-changing world filled with uncertainty – know that SMU is dedicated to providing all students with a personalized education and that we are committed to the health and safety of our community. Learn about the return to campus 2020 and please use the resources below to make informed decisions as you look ahead to this exciting time in your student’s life. Affording a Sound Investment Higher education remains a strong investment, one that can be taken anywhere, anytime. A solid academic foundation produces dividends for a lifetime. When assessing the cost of your student’s education, a private school education may be more affordable than you realize. All applicants are considered for various merit-based scholarships*. Students can combine merit-based scholarships withacademic scholarships. 75% of first-year students are awarded scholarships and grants. SMU awarded $151 million+ in scholarships and grants to undergraduate students in 2019. 72% of SMU students graduate without debt. Students can apply (beginning on October 1 of every year) for federal student aid through theFAFSA(Free Application for Federal Student Aid) and institutional aid through the CSS Profile™. SMU ranked #11 in merit aid in Money Magazine 2019 Best Colleges. For more information on scholarships and financial aid, visit www.smu.edu/financialaid. Return on Investment Future leaders and change-makers choose SMU for its academic rigor in preparation for demanding professions. As Dallas’ premier university, SMU has earned a reputation for supplying top talent to various companies in the Dallas area and beyond. Below you will find information on SMU's unparalleled return on investment. Six months after graduation 93% of SMU graduates have jobs or are in graduate school. PayScale ranks SMU among the top 21% of universities by return on investment. 94% of Cox graduates are off the job market within three months of graduation at a starting salary of $67K per year. Alumni employment rates place SMU among the top 30 universities in the world, according to the Center for World University Rankings, 2018-19. College Factual counts SMU alumni among the top 5% of highest-paid graduates across a range of fields including the physical and social sciences; computer and information sciences; the humanities; the visual and performing arts; and business, management, and marketing. SMU ranks among the top 1% of highest-paid music, psychology, and education graduates, according to College Factual 2018. 98% of the Simmons School’s Applied Physiology and Sport Management graduates are employed or are pursuing/have completed graduate school with APSM-related degrees. SMU placed in Forbes’ 2018 Best Value Colleges ranking of an elite group of only 300 schools nationwide that are worth the investment, based on net price, net debt, school quality, alumni earnings, timely graduation, and population of Pell Grant recipients. Promoting Students' Wellness and Safety Learn about the support services that enhance students’ well-being and put them on the road to both personal and professional success. The Dr. Bob Smith Health Center is a convenient medical clinic located on campus which provides diagnosis and treatment of illness and injury and counseling services provided by psychiatrists and psychologists. Services include consultations with physicians, minor surgery, care of injuries, treatment of minor illnesses, immunizations, and continuation of treatments such as allergy injections. The Health Center also offers specialty clinics which include gynecology, sports medicine and dermatology. Other specialists and advanced care facilities are in close proximity to campus. The Dedman Center for Lifetime Sports features the latest fitness and health equipment and classes, with a variety of options for staying fit and healthy and reducing stress. SMU Dining Services is home to an impressive selection of healthy options including vegetarian, vegan and gluten-free options and comfort food - all freshly prepared! SMU’s location in a residential neighborhood enhances the strong sense of community. SMU Police, our own on-campus 24-hour police force, works closely with the police departments of Dallas, University Park and Highland Park to foster campus security. SMU is proud to have named campus leader Maria Dixon Hall as Chief Diversity Officer. She will serve as a senior-level resource and a strategic partner who collaborates with SMU faculty, students, administrators, and staff – both initiating and reporting the outcome of diversity initiatives, policies, and programs. Equipping Your Student for Success Your student’s success is our success. SMU is committed to providing the tools to enable your son or daughter to take advantage of the resources and benefits we offer. SMU encourages students to stretch themselves academically and personally, and infuses the appropriate support to help them succeed at every level of the undergraduate curriculum. Students are successful at SMU because of services like the Altshuler Learning Enhancement Center, which provides free tutoring and learning support services to all undergraduate students. Faculty in Residence live in the residence halls to provide academic support and programming in SMU’s residential communities. Academic advisors work closely with students to develop individual degree plans that are driven by each student’s unique educational interests and goals. The Hegi Family Career Development Center staff works with students to create a plan for life after graduation. Six months after graduation 93% of SMU graduates have jobs or are in grad school. International students have access to the incredible services provided by the International Student and Scholar Services (ISSS) office including informative programing on Optional Practical Training, Curricular Practical Training (CPT) and additional immigration support, a leadership development program, a mentorship program, and fun social events and small trips throughout the Dallas/Fort Worth Metroplex. SMU is home to six on-campus libraries (Fondren, Bridwell, the Business Library, DeGolyer, Hamon and Underwood) and one off-campus library at the SMU-in-Taos campus. In addition to the physical library spaces, the libraries provide various services for students. Several include teaching resources to empower all students to locate, evaluate, and use information knowledgeably and ethically, the ability to meet 1:1 with a librarian, scheduled class instructions tailored to academic school or college, a research guidelines course, and individual and group low-distraction and quiet study spaces. Encouraging Your Participation in Your Student’s College Years SMU is a vibrant community, and parents are encouraged to be active and engaged members of our community! You’ll hear regularly from SMU’s Parent and Family Programs Office. You’ll be invited to Family Weekend and other parent-focused events. We include parents on task forces and in focus groups. You’ll quickly discover that SMU believes in having open and honest conversations, even about difficult topics. You are encouraged to follow us on the Parent and Family Programs Office website and to participate in parent programs including the SMU Mothers' and Dads' Club. SMU posts all reported campus criminal activity on the SMU Police Department Crime Log. Connect with the SMU Office of Undergraduate Admission Connect with your assigned SMU admission counselor. Visit SMU! We know you will love our beautiful 234-acre tree-lined campus. Connect with the SMU Office of Undergraduate Admission virtually. Prospective students can learn more about the Hilltop by attending one of our admission events. Admitted students will be emailed information regarding admitted student events. Keep in touch with us! Follow @smuadmission on social media - Facebook, Twitter, Instagram, YouTube. SMU Office of Undergraduate Admission Location and Contact Information Physical Address: Laura Lee Blanton Building 6185 Airline Road, 2nd Floor Dallas, TX 75275 Mailing Address: SMU Undergraduate Admission P.O. Box 750181 Dallas, TX 75275 Phone: 214-768-2058 Fax: 214-768-1083 Email: ugadmission@smu.edu Office Hours: 8:30 am-5 pm CST *SMU has adopted a one-year test-optional policy to ease student stress during the COVID-19 pandemic. Spring and Fall 2021 applicants to SMU don’t have to submit standardized test scores. Test scores are optional for SMU merit-based scholarship consideration. Apply NowVisit Us Back to top Academics Cox School of Business Dedman College of Humanities and Science Dedman School of Law Lyle School of Engineering Meadows School of the Arts Moody School of Graduate and Advanced Studies Perkins School of Theology Simmons School of Education & Human Development SMU CAPE SMU Libraries The Guildhall Audience Links Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Alumni Faculty & Staff Media Parents Quick Links SMU Ignited: Boldly Shaping Tomorrow COVID-19 Information (Mustang Strong) Bush Center SMU Store Academic Calendar Events Calendar Employment Giving to SMU Virtual Tour Get in Touch Contact Us Maps Directions Compliance Legal Disclosures Report Sexual Harassment Reporting a BIAS Incident HEERF Reporting Emergency Preparedness Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkedIn YouTube © Southern Methodist University, PO Box 750100, Dallas, TX 75275 Apply First-Year Domestic Student* Application First-Year International Student* Application Transfer Forms and Applications Readmission to SMU Graduate Studies FAQs | Undergraduate Temporary Test-Optional Policy Visit Virtual Campus Experience In-Person Visit Virtual Tour Admission Events Maps and Directions Residential Commons Tour Where to Stay Academics Majors and Minors Schools Faculty Virtual Connections Support and Resources Honors and Scholars Tips SMU Abroad SMU-in-Taos FAQs | Academics Campus Life SMU and Dallas Residence Life Dining Health and Safety Spirit and Traditions Diversity At SMU Activities and Organizations Fitness and Recreation Sports Spiritual Life En Espanol FAQs | Living on Campus FAQs | Student Life Financial Aid Cost of Attendance Types of Aid Access SMU Financial Aid Process Payment Plan Options SMU Net Price Calculator Mustang Scholars Robert H. Dedman Scholarship for North Dallas High School En Español Contact Us Deadlines FAQs FAQs | Financial Aid FAQs | Tuition, Fees, and Deadlines Scholarships and Assistance Connect Meet Your Admission Counselor School Contacts Request Information High School Counselor Information Parent Information Social Media and Zoom Backgrounds Frequently Asked Questions Publications Student Ambassadors Coronavirus (COVID-19) Updates Incoming and Current Students Prospective Student Publications Wallpapers International How to Apply Visit SMU Life in Dallas Living at SMU International Student Events Intercultural Engagement Athletics at SMU Spirit and Traditions Immigration Information Obtaining an I-20 Transfer Benefits of an SMU Education Transfer Scholarships Transfer Admission Application Process Transfer Dates and Deadlines Transfer Pathway Guides Transfer Equivalency Tool Meadows Auditions and Portfolios Transfer Forms and Applications International Transfer Students FAQs Congratulations on your admission to SMU! How Credits Transfer Partnership Programs Menu Search Search Submit Popular Searches Apply Academics Campus Life Majors and Minors Visit Financial Aid Did you know? SMU's main campus is located in the nation's fourth largest metropolitan area, Dallas-Fort Worth, with 7.4 million people and more than 20 Fortune 500 headquarters.Learn More Menu Search