Skip to main content Restrict my search to College of Liberal Arts and Social Sciences Submit Close Login to AccessUH Give to UH Search Communication Sciences and Disorders About the Department About the Profession Alumni and Friends Financial Assistance Contact Information People Faculty Staff Clinical Educators Students Programs Ph.D. Program Master's Program Undergraduate Post-Baccalaureate Leveling Program SLPA American Sign Language Interpreting (ASLI) Program Learning Abroad Speech, Language, and Hearing Mobile Unit Autism Mentoring Program University SLH Clinic About the Clinic Hearing Services Adult Speech-Language Services Child Speech-Language Services Summer Programs Community Outreach Clinic Forms Parking Research News News Archive Events Giving UH Home College of Liberal Arts and Social Sciences Communication Sciences and Disorders University SLH Clinic About the Clinic University SLH Clinic About the Clinic Hearing Services Adult Speech-Language Services Child Speech-Language Services Summer Programs Community Outreach Clinic Forms Parking Melcher Life Sciences 3871 Holman St. Room M156 Houston, TX 77204-6018 Phone: (713) 743-0915 Fax: (713) 743-2926 Email: uslhc@uh.edu About the Clinic The University Speech-Language-Hearing Clinic: A United Way agency (USLHC) provides services to infants, children, and adults with speech, language, and/or hearing impairments. The agency is partially funded by the United Way of Greater Houston and staffed by professionals certified in audiology and speech-language pathology. Communication services, including testing and treatment, are provided by graduate clinicians under the supervision of certified and licensed speech-language pathologists. These services are offered in-person at the clinic or via telepractice, whereby therapy is delivered online in the client's home, school, or any setting where high-speed Internet is available. Hearing services are provided in-person by a certified and licensed audiologist. Equitable Treatment Services at the USLHC are available to all people, regardless of race, creed, gender, or national origin. All clinic staff, faculty, and graduate clinicians are committed to promoting and affirming diversity and respecting individuals' dignity and worth regardless of their gender expression and identity, ethnicity, race, sexual orientation, age, disabilities, religious beliefs, and socioeconomic status. Click here for general clinic services COVID-19 The clinic is open and currently offering select services in-person and other services via telepractice. The health of our community is critical, and the following precautions are followed routinely: Frequently touched surfaces are cleaned and disinfected often throughout the day. Equipment used for therapy, including furniture, instruments, and toys, are cleaned and disinfected after each session. Clients complete a COVID and temperature screening before entering the clinic, and appointments are rescheduled if necessary. All clinicians, clinical educators, faculty, and staff adhere closely to CDC guidelines to ensure a safe environment for all. Visual reminders regarding steps to protect others, such as frequent hand washing, social distancing, and wearing a mask, are posted around the clinic. Appointments To schedule an appointment, please email uslhc@uh.edu or call (713) 743-0915. Note there are risks inherent in communicating via email. By emailing the clinic at uslhc@uh.edu, you acknowledge the risks and choose to communicate with the USLHC via email. The clinic is open Monday through Friday, 09:00 am to 5:00 pm. Fees This clinic offers services on a sliding scale to clients who are eligible for reduced fees. Click here for the Fee Reduction Application form Community Outreach Program The USLHC provides contracted screening and intervention services in various community locations in the Greater Houston area, including charter schools, public schools, and service centers. Interested agencies are encouraged to contact the University Speech-Language-Hearing Clinic to discuss contracting arrangements by calling (713) 743-0915. University of Houston Houston, Texas 77204 (713) 743-2255 A–Z Index Academic Calendar Campus Carry Policy Campus Map Career Opportunities Directory Emergency Information Get Help Human Resources Library Mental Health Resources Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Office of the President Parking Report Copyright Infringement Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness Open Records/Public Information Act Texas Veterans Portal Tuition & Fees UH System Virtual Tour ©2022 University of Houston. All rights reserved. Report a problem with this page Texas.gov Texas Homeland Security TRAIL Fraud Reporting Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Linking Notice Privacy Notice Open Records/Public Information Act Institutional Résumé Required Reports Electronic & Information Resources Accessibility Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness University Policies