Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. UC News UC News right arrow down arrow UC News Search Topics right arrow down arrow UC Answers #UCtheGood In The News Arts & Culture Science & Tech International Athletics Health College Bound Impact right arrow down arrow #UCtheGood Insights Diversity Experience-Based Learning Next Lives Here Bicentennial COVID-19 Student Experience Colleges right arrow down arrow College of Allied Health Sciences College of Arts & Sciences College of Business Blue Ash College Clermont College College-Conservatory of Music College of Design, Architecture, Art, and Planning College of Education, Criminal Justice, & Human Services College of Engineering and Applied Science Graduate School College of Law College of Medicine College of Nursing College of Pharmacy Units right arrow down arrow Academic Health Center Admissions Alumni Association Board of Trustees Campus Services Equity and Inclusion Hoxworth Human Resources IT@UC Libraries Office of Innovation Office of Research President's Office Provost Public Safety Student Affairs UC Foundation Veteran's Affairs Continuing Education Media Contacts Home » UC News » Search Keyword Events Include Events (default) Exclude Events Only Show Events Only Show Past Events Only Show Upcoming Events Start Date End Date topics Select topics Answers Arts & Culture Athletics Bicentennial College bound COVID-19 Diversity Entrepreneurship Experience-based Learning Faculty Staff Health Impact In The News Insights International Must Read Next Lives Here Science & Tech Student Experience Thought Leadership colleges Select colleges College of Arts and Sciences Blue Ash College College of Allied Health Sciences College-Conservatory of Music College of Engineering and Applied Science College of Education, Criminal Justice, & Human Services Clermont College Lindner College of Business College of Design, Architecture, Art, and Planning Graduate School College of Law College of Medicine College of Nursing Online College of Pharmacy units Select units Academic Health Center Admissions Alumni Association Board of Trustees Campus Services Continuing Education Equity and Inclusion Hoxworth Human Resources UCIT Libraries Office of Innovation Office of Research President's Office Provost Public Safety Student Affairs UC Foundation Veteran's Affairs Author Clear All Filters {{facet.display}} remove {{facet.display}} remove {{facet.display}} remove {{facet.display}} remove Tim Tedeschi | Archives Tim is a public information officer for the Media Relations + Content team within the Marketing + Communications department. He is the content and media representative for the UC Cancer Center, UC Gardner Neuroscience Institute, James L. Winkle College of Pharmacy and the Department of Psychiatry and Behavioral Neuroscience. tedesctd@ucmail.uc.edu | 513-556-5694 122 Results Sort By: Newest First right arrow down arrow Newest First Oldest First Imaging Technology News: First FLASH proton therapy trial... May 27, 2022 The University of Cincinnati's John Breneman, MD, spoke with Imaging Technology News about the completion of enrollment of the FAST-01 trial, the first FLASH proton therapy trial completed in humans. Connecting through music May 24, 2022 The University of Cincinnati's College of Medicine and College-Conservatory of Music collaborate on the innovative Dementia and the Arts course and intervention for community members with cognitive disorders and their family members. 55KRC: Naomi Judd suicide brings awareness to mental health... May 23, 2022 The University of Cincinnati's Caleb Adler discussed the recent death by suicide of singer Naomi Judd, risk factors for suicide and resources available for those struggling with mental health issues. Local 12: Mobile stroke unit sees success May 19, 2022 Local 12 highlighted the University of Cincinnati's Christopher T. Richards and the UC Health mobile stroke unit, which has been dispatched more than 1,100 times since launching in August 2020. Local media highlight Stroke Awareness Month May 18, 2022 The University of Cincinnati's Eva Mistry and Pooja Khatri were recent guests on local news programs to discuss National Stroke Awareness Month. MSN, Yahoo highlight UC blueberry study May 17, 2022 The University of Cincinnati's Robert Krikorian's research into blueberry supplementation for certain middle-aged adults was featured on MSN and Yahoo among other news sites. Parade: Fidget toys can be coping tools for depression and... May 11, 2022 The University of Cincinnati's Shana Feibel was featured in a Parade article about the benefits of fidget toys to cope with anxiety and depression. WVXU: UC symposium explores non-pharmacological approaches to... May 10, 2022 The University of Cincinnati's Mladen golubic and Sian Cotton were featured on WVXU's Cincinnati Edition to discuss non-pharmacological approaches to pain management and an upcoming symposium. LifeHacker: How to parent an empath May 10, 2022 The University of Cincinnati's Shana Feibel gave tips to LifeHacker on how to parent an empath, someone who feels other people's feelings as if they are their own. Regular blueberry consumption may reduce risk of dementia, study... May 10, 2022 Research from the University of Cincinnati shows daily blueberry supplementation for certain middle-aged populations may lower the chances of developing late-life dementia. How a compound becomes a drug May 9, 2022 Over decades of ups and downs, the hard work of University of Cincinnati alumnus John Drach paid off when the FDA approved a new drug he helped develop to treat cytomegalovirus. VJOncology: ChemoID trial shows increased survival for glioma... May 6, 2022 The University of Cincinnati's Soma Sengupta, MD, PhD, was featured in a VJOncology video discussing a recent Phase III glioma trial. Cannabis Man podcast highlights UC researcher May 5, 2022 The University of Cincinnati's LaTrice Montgomery was a guest on the Cannabis Man podcast to discuss the current state of cannabis research. Healio: Immunotherapy does not increase surgery complications... May 2, 2022 The University of Cincinnati's Alice Tang was featured in a Healio article discussing recently published research that administering an immunotherapy drug prior to surgery did not increase risks for patients with advanced oral cavity cancer. Local 12: Pharmacies adjusting hours due to staffing issues April 29, 2022 The University of Cincinnati's Jill Boone was featured in a Local 12 story on the impact of staffing issues at local pharmacies. Load More Debug Query for this University of Cincinnati 2600 Clifton Ave. Cincinnati, OH 45220 513-556-0000 UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati University of Cincinnati 2600 Clifton Ave. Cincinnati, OH 45220 513-556-0000 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top