Student Success - University of Houston Skip to main content Restrict my search to Office of the Provost Submit Close Login to AccessUH Give to UH Search Office of the Provost About Provost Paula Myrick Short Initiatives Deans of Colleges and Libraries Provost's Cabinet: Vice and Associate Provosts Office of the Provost Staff Presentations by Provost Paula Myrick Short Faculty Current Faculty Faculty Resources Underrepresented Women of Color Coalition Faculty Engagement and Development Faculty Awards Cougar Chairs Leadership Academy Grants Faculty Grievance Non-Tenure Track Faculty New Faculty Prospective Faculty Presidential Frontiers Faculty Faculty/Staff Administrators Student Success Undergraduate Academic Advising Current Students Undergraduate Student Success Center Provost Prizes for Prose & Poetry New Coogs UHin4: Four Year Graduation Plan Cub Camp: Student-Run, Student Led Provost Summer Read Program Peer Assistants Global Students Learning Abroad International Students Graduate Students University Success SACSCOC University Accreditation UH Global Global Initiatives Global Citizens Credential Peace Corps Prep Program Center for ADVANCING UH Faculty Success Cougar Initiative to Engage (CITE) Houston Guided Pathways to Success About People Memorandum of Understanding Foundations of Excellence About Year 1: Foundational Dimensions Year 2: Themes Success Indicators Dashboard Postdoctoral Fellows at UH Academic Program Planning Committee on Academic Centers and Institutes Planning and Budgeting Policies and Resources Academic Honesty Policy Frequently Asked Questions Student Policies and Resources Student Resources Faculty Policies, Programs, and Resources Policies Programs Resources University Policies and Resources FERPA Resources Senate Bill 4 Frequently Asked Questions Honorary Degrees COVID-19 Updates and Resources News News Travels With Shasta Cougar Milestones UH Office of the Provost Marketing and Communications Student Success Succeed at UH Student success is my top priority. That's why our office works hard to bring you programs that encourage timely graduation and strategic academic planning. We're here to help you succeed, whether you're an incoming freshman, transfer student, or graduating senior. Welcome and GO COOGS! - Paula Myrick Short, Provost Need Guidance? The Undergraduate Advisors at UH can help you plan your steps towards completing a degree in a timely manner with one-on-one advising and academic maps. Schedule an appointment with an advisor today! Choose an Advisor by College: Architecture Arts Business Education Engineering Honors Hotel and Restaurant Management Liberal Arts and Social Sciences Natural Sciences and Mathematics Nursing Optometry Pharmacy Technology Exploratory Studies Transfer Advising Program Off Campus Advisors Undergraduate Success UHin4 Graduate in four years to save time and money with UHin4. Cub Camp Learn about UH traditions before you even step foot on campus! Provost Summer Read Program Read a common book and discuss it with your professors and peers. Be Enrollment Ready Prepare for enrollment during your NSO with these handy tips. Transfer Advising Program Smooth the transition to the University of Houston for prospective undergraduate transfer students. Exploratory Studies Explore major options by making confident, informed career and academic decisions. LAUNCH Get peer tutoring for almost 500 separate courses, success workshops, and individual academic counseling. Houston GPS Learn about the partnership between Houston-area 2-year and 4-year institutions to encourage smooth transfer and increase completion rates. Challenger Program Get support as a first generation college student through specialized programming and campus-wide resource connections. Peer Assistants Serve as an Orientation Peer Assistants during New Student Orientation. Provost's Prize for Creative Writing Enter the Provost’s Prize for Creative Writing for poetry or prose and have your winning entry featured in the UH Magazine. See Houston. See the World. Whether you are an international student attending classes at the University of Houston, or a current UH student looking to broaden your horizons, you can connect with us here. Learning Abroad Students and faculty participate in study, volunteer, research, service, and exchange programs while immersed in other cultures and environments. International Student and Scholar Services International students and visiting scholars are welcomed to UH through campus assimilation and cultural transition initiatives. Start your journey down the path of success at the UH Graduate School, which oversees over 6,000 students in a broad spectrum of programs, including master’s, doctoral, advanced certificate, professional, and joint degree programs. Become part of a diverse student population and develop new ideas and technology through hands-on application and mentoring under experienced professors who will become an integral part of your professional preparation. Experience unparalleled professional development opportunities, program flexibility, and academic support.Learn More About the UH Graduate School University of Houston Ezekiel W. Cullen Bldg., Room 203 Houston, TX 77204 832-842-0550 About the Office of the Provost Travels With Shasta Cougar Milestones Office of the Provost Staff Faculty Awards Student Success Undergraduate Academic Advising UHin4: Four Year Graduation Plan Provost Summer Read Program Cub Camp: Student-Run, Student Led University Success Policies and Resources SACSCOC University Accreditation ©2022 University of Houston. All rights reserved. Report a problem with this page Texas.gov Texas Homeland Security TRAIL Fraud Reporting Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Linking Notice Privacy Notice Open Records/Public Information Act Institutional Résumé Required Reports Electronic & Information Resources Accessibility Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness University Policies