Tuesday, May 31, 2022 Skip to Content A resource for media highlighting UMD experts, cutting-edge research and innovation, rankings, and breaking campus news Menu 
    Search
  News Releases Experts Media Resources Contact Us Search Search Media Resources Images for Media Usage Please contact University Communications for assistance with: Background information or data for a news story Interview requests Faculty experts On-campus filming Contact Information University Communications 2101 Turner Hall College Park, MD 20742-5411 email: mediainfo@umd.edu phone: 301-405-4621 after-hours on-call phone: 301-257-0073 University Media Policy and FAQs Public Information Requests Stock Video Footage and Photography Requests University Rankings and Fast Facts Follow @UMDRightNow on Twitter for news, UMD experts and campus updates Media Policy In a continued effort to keep our community safe during the COVID-19 pandemic, the University of Maryland has instituted special media guidelines. Please review our Media Guidelines During the COVID-19 Pandemic before coming to campus. The University Communications office aims to service media requests with accurate, transparent and timely information. We partner with the media to help tell the story of the university and its leadership faculty, staff, students and alumni. As public institution, the university permits media representatives to photograph and film in public, outdoor spaces on UMD's campus. We encourage all members of the media who are visiting to notify University Communications in advance by emailing mediainfo@umd.edu , calling 301.257.0073 or communicating directly with any member of the University Communications staff. This allows us to help coordinate interviews, if possible, offer parking options and provide helpful information. Exceptions include members of the media covering athletic events. These individuals should coordinate directly with the Maryland Athletics media relations team Media Policy and FAQs On-Campus Filming News media who plan to film or photograph on UMD's campus are asked to notify University Communications in advance. As a public institution, the university permits media representatives to photograph and film in public, outdoor spaces on UMD's campus. However, media are not permitted to photograph or film inside any building on campus without explicit permission from University Communications. All commercial filming and photography must be coordinated and approved through the University Communications office in advance. All requests for commercial filming on campus must be accompanied by a completed filming application. Filming fees may apply. Applications must be submitted to University Communications a minimum of 10 business days priors to the requested film date. All requests to film at an athletics facility on campus must be coordinated through Maryland Athletics. Please contact Josh Kaplan at 301.314.9729 Filming Guidelines and Applications Stock Video Footage and Photography Requests Stock Video Footage Request Complete the video request form Submit to video@umd.edu Stock Photography A select number of iconic campus photos are available for media use. For specific photo requests, email mediainfo@umd.edu Communications Staff About UMD Contact Us Please contact Campus Police for any crime-related stories: Sgt. Rosanne Hoaas: 301-405-9960 The Flagship Institution of the State of Maryland College Park, MD 20742, USA 301.405.1000 UMD Homepage