Skip to main content Google Tag Manager Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Home Research Education News Events People About Giving Shop Contact Us Biology & Paleo Environment Tree Ring Lab Core Repository Geochemistry Hudson River Field Station Marine Geology & Geophysics Marine/Large Programs Office of Marine Operations Ocean & Climate Physics Seismology, Geology and Tectonophysics Rock & Ice Mechanics Lab Visitor Opportunities Core Repository Hudson River Field Station Open House Student & Educator Programs Rockland P.L.U.S. Day in the Life of the Hudson Secondary School Field Research Summer Intern Programs Next Gen Hudson River Educators Earth2Class Resources Polar Science Climate & Sustainability Hudson River Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs Earth Science News Lamont in the Media Newsletter News Archive All Events Earth Science Colloquium Series Biology & Paleo Environment Seminars Geochemistry Seminars Geodynamics Seminars Marine Geology & Geophysics/Seismology, Geology & Tectonophysics Seminars Ocean & Climate Physics Seminars Summer Stars Lecture Series History Director's Office Director's Reports Academic Affairs & Diversity Anti-Racism Commitment Alumni Awards The Vetlesen Prize Lamont Awards Outside Awards Climate Center Luminaries & Signature Events Annual Reports Lamont Features Map Careers Open Positions Postdoctoral Fellowships Research Visitors Visitor Info Contact & Directions Shuttle Schedule Campus Café Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory You are here: Home News Staff Spotlight: David Phelan, Business Manager General Earth Institute Staff Spotlight: David Phelan, Business Manager As the business manager on the Earth Institute communications team, David keeps the department running smoothly and is always ready to help a colleague in need. By Judy Jamal August 06, 2021 David and his wife The Staff Spotlight series features Earth Institute staff members from across the Morningside, Lamont and the Irving Medical Center campuses. The series is intended to highlight the important work our staff members do to keep the Earth Institute running smoothly and to support our mission of guiding the world onto more sustainable paths. These interviews discuss staff members’ careers, their interest in our institute, and insights that might be relatable and useful for the rest of us. This month’s spotlight is on David Phelan, who works on the Lamont campus. As the business manager on the Earth Institute communications team, he keeps the department running smoothly and is always ready to help a colleague in need. What is your role at present? I am the business manager for the Earth Institute communications department. How and when did you connect with us? I started in June of 2001 with a team of five with offices in Lamont Hall at the Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory. My main office remains at Lamont and I am now in my fifth location, a record I am told. What aspects of your job inspire you? The expertise at the Earth Institute impresses me. I can recall over the years how our experts have been called on in every natural disaster, from the tsunamis to earthquakes and everything in between. What are some fun memorable events that happened on campus? The 2004 tsunami in the Indian Ocean occurred on December 26th, when most were away on holiday. I recall my wife and I going to Lamont to assist the then-director of communications to field requests from the media. We had a few very busy days, but it was a memorable experience! I have always enjoyed participating in the Open Houses at Lamont, especially watching the young ones get excited about science. It has also been a great opportunity to work with others from around the Earth Institute that I normally don’t interact with. A funny story, at least from my vantage point. One of my office locations at Lamont was Guest House 6; my office had a door just a few feet away that I would often leave open during good weather. One day I stepped away for no more than five minutes and returned to see a 3-4’ snake under my desk. I found a broom and used the handle to pick up the snake and decided to show to a workmate in another office who I sincerely thought would enjoy it since they are a nature lover. News flash: nature lover does not equal snake lover. The moment they saw the snake they started screaming and ran out of the house and kept running for some distance. David with his family David with his grandchildren. How do you spend leisure time? My wife and I love to travel and do so at every opportunity. During the pandemic we explored some local destinations. We also enjoy just setting up a couple lawn chairs at some of our favorite locations along the Hudson River and in the Hudson Valley. While we do not have children, we do have two lovely ‘grandchildren’ (a separate story) which we spend a good amount of time with. They are a great source of joy! If there was one lesson or advice you could give us, what would that be? David and his wife “There is more happiness in giving than in receiving.” Looking back on my life the happiest moments have been when I had the opportunity to help others, from volunteer work to spending time with our grandchildren. Whenever I feel ‘down’, I try to do something for someone else and it always lifts my spirits! How has the pandemic influenced you? It has reminded me how much I don’t like the city (sorry city dwellers), or the commute that comes along with it. I very much enjoy spending more time with my wife who has also been working remotely since March of 2020. It has limited our travel which has been a challenge but forced us to explore local destinations. Tags Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory Staff Spotlight News May 31, 2022 Aurora Barone Looks for Equitable Ways to Cut Carbon Emissions May 27, 2022 Sylhet City, Geology, and Packing Up May 25, 2022 Community-Led Science Uncovers High Air Pollution From Fracking in Ohio County May 20, 2022 Start of the Mini-Field School May 17, 2022 Lazy Bears and Confused Birds: What a Warming Planet Means for Wildlife Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory61 Route 9W · Palisades, NY 10964 Phone 845-359-2900 Contact Us [email protected] Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close