Skip to main content ISU Quick Links Menu ISU Store Contact Us Offices Small Farm Sustainability Search form Search Main menu Main Menu Home Newsletter Podcasts Education Opportunities Crops Livestock Rural Life Resources Enroll Now Sign up today Podcast Acreage Living Newsletter Pseudomonas Bacterial Spot Pseudomonas Bacterial Spot is a disease that causes spots on leaves and yellowing of leaves that eventually can drop off. As many other foliar disease, defoliation increase the risk for sun scald of fruit and lessens overall plant productivity New Video Series Demonstrates Terminology and Techniques for Tree Identification As nature begins to awaken from its winter slumber, those looking to identify backyard Iowa trees can consult a new video resource from Iowa State University Extension and Outreach forestry specialist Billy Beck. This series of five videos can be found on YouTube, or through the Iowa State University Extension and Outreach video website. Estimating First Crop Alfalfa Harvest using PEAQ Alfalfa growth and development is affected by many factors, including temperature, soil moisture, stand age and even cultivar. Alfalfa growth has been slow this spring due to cooler than normal weather. This is a reminder that using the calendar date to determine when to harvest the first crop of alfalfa may not be the best method. In order to accurately predict the optimal time for the first cutting, the University of Wisconsin developed the Predictive Equations for Alfalfa Quality (PEAQ) method. Movement Risks Checklist for Organic and Alternative Livestock Items moving on and off your farm or ranch can bring disease. Recognizing movement risks can help you prevent them. The Livestock Project has created a Step 1: Movement risks checklist that can help you recognize and think about the types of movements that happen on your operation. In addition, the checklist can help you take the necessary steps to make those movements as safe as possible. The movements themselves and how often they occur are the key ideas to keep in mind. Major categories of movement risks are – animals and animal products, vehicles and equipment, visitors and personnel, and wildlife and pests. Every Operation Counts as USDA Begins Ag Census Every five years, the U.S. Department of Agriculture’s National Agricultural Statistics Service (NASS) conducts the Census of Agriculture. The goal is to get a complete count of U.S. farms and ranches and the people who operate them. Information collected includes land use and ownership, operator characteristics, production practices, income, and expenditures. Small Farm Sustainability Avian Influenza Biosecurity is your best line of defense against foreign animal disease. In the presence of any foreign animal disease threat, awareness and biosecurity practices should be heightened. Call one of these numbers to report suspected sick birds IDALS Reporting Line 515-281-5305 USDA Reporting Line 515-284-4140 For more information on biosecuity and HPAI, visit the HPAI Toolkit at the Iowa Poultry Association webpage. Podcasts Podcast Transcripts Agriculture and Natural Resources Copyright © 1995- Iowa State University of Science and Technology. All rights reserved. 2150 Beardshear Hall, Ames, IA 50011-2031 (800) 262-3804 Iowa State University | Policies State & National Extension Partners Site Index | Site Map Small Farm Sustainability 2625 N. Loop Dr., Suite 2430 Ames, IA 50010 Phone: (515) 294-4430 Email Facebook Libsyn Pinterest Twitter