Skip to main content Skip to main content Prospective Students Current Students Alumni More Faculty/Staff News Media Parents Skip to main content Apply Apply Give Give Follow Us Follow Us Twitter Follow Us Facebook Follow Us Instagram Follow Us LinkedIn Follow Us YouTube Follow Us Social Stream Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. Navigate Search Skip to main content Office of Engaged Learning Undergraduate Research Undergraduate Research Engaged Learning Fellowship Undergraduate Research Assistantships Summer Research Intensive Presentation and Publication Undergraduate Research Opportunities Events Calendar Big iDeas Big iDeas How to Apply Big iDeas Winners For Current Big iDeas winners CGIU CGIU How to apply to CGIU CGI U Commitment-Makers For current CGIU Incubator@SMU Mentorship Mentorship Mustang Mentors Excellence in Mentoring Events Calendar Resources Resources Event Archive Documents & Forms Links About About Staff Contact Us Make a Gift Make a Gift Giving Day - UG Research Giving Day - Journal ☰ Office of the Provost Office of Engaged Learning Undergraduate Research Undergraduate Research Research—the observation, discovery, or creation of previously unknown ideas—is at the heart of SMU's mission. We strongly encourage undergraduate students to engage in research projects outside of their class assignments. Way to get involved include Undergraduate Research Assistantships, the Engaged Learning Fellowship, and our Presentation and Publication opportunities, among other opportunities across campus. Opportunities Faculty Mentoring Awards Make a gift Undergraduate Research Engaged Learning Fellowship Undergraduate Research Assistantships (URA) Summer Research Intensive Presentation and Publication Other Research and Funding Opportunities Events Calendar Ways to get involved with research: Engaged Learning Fellowship Funding to pursue your capstone-level project in research, creative activity, or civic engagement Read More Undergraduate Research Assistantships Paid hourly positions working with faculty on innovative research projects Read More Presentation & Publication Share your work with the public at live events and the Journal of Undergraduate Research Read More Research Opportunities Across the SMU Campus Check out all the undergraduate research opportunities on campus! Research and Innovation Week Share your research at our events, including the spring Research and Innovation Week Journal of Undergraduate Research Publish your research in this double-blind, peer-reviewed journal dedicated to presenting the finest accomplishments of SMU student researchers. Read more Previous Next pause play hide show Research News Mark Your Calendar Summer Research Intensive Date: June 1, 2022 SMU Faculty members may apply for match-funding for up to two Undergraduate Research Assistants this summer. The students are able to work up to 29 hours per week, and will attend training workshops in research methods and professional development. In the 2021 pilot, 42 students supported the work of 27 faculty members. By the end of summer, their work culminated in 8 grant proposals, 7 abstract submissions, and 2 peer-reviewed papers—as well as substantial progress toward proposals and publications. Students also create brief oral presentations and optional reports. Faculty application deadline is March 21, 2022. Learn More Apply Visit School Cox School of Business Dedman College of Humanities and Sciences Dedman School of Law Lyle School of Engineering Meadows School of the Arts Moody School of Graduate and Advanced Studies Perkins School of Theology Simmons School of Education and Human Development Explore SMU Magazine Academic Calendar Events Calendar Guildhall Continuing and Professional Education Athletics Employment at SMU Campus Reporting a Bias Incident Report Sexual Misconduct Emergency Preparedness Student Life George W. Bush Presidential Center SMU Libraries Meadows Museum Tate Lecture Series Contact Us Maps and Directions Legal Disclosures © Southern Methodist University, PO Box 750100, Dallas, TX 75275 twitter facebook instagram linkedin youtube share