Skip to main content Temple University Explore Temple’s Schools and Colleges Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Support Temple Temple University Search Site Search Full Menu Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees President History & Traditions Temple Health News & Media Offices Public Information Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Development Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Libraries Latin American Studies Major You are here Home Academics Degrees and Programs Latin American Studies Major Apply Visit Request More Info Latin American Studies Major Admissions Careers, Internships & Opportunities Required Courses Research & Facilities Scholarships & Financial Aid Bachelor of Arts in Latin American Studies Take a dynamic, multilayered and flexible approach to learning about the cultures, economies, languages, politics and societies of Latin America with the Bachelor of Arts in Latin American Studies in Temple University’s College of Liberal Arts. This 123-credit undergraduate degree utilizes the region as a framework for exploring thematic issues in a number of disciplines. Explore Latin America as a crucial global framework and as a strategic player, delving deep into pivotal issues such as U.S.-Latin America foreign relations, U.S. Latinx studies, immigrant experiences, race and ethnicity formation, social movements, and more. Students who complete the Latin American Studies Major will acquire up-to-date knowledge and skills directly related to Latin America from a variety of methodological perspectives; analyze economic development, U.S.-Latin American foreign relations and underdevelopment from comparative and global perspectives; combine training in Spanish and/or Portuguese with the lived experience of speakers of these languages; elevate and refine their writing and critical thinking skills; gain in-depth understanding of the growing Latino population in the U.S.; study away to immerse themselves in Latin American culture in preparation for potential career pathways; and study Latin American art, culture, film, foreign relations, history, literature, media, music, politics and religion from a multidisciplinary perspective. The Latin American Studies Major is an interdisciplinary degree program, with courses offered across all of Temple’s schools and colleges, taught by faculty who research diverse topics such as colonial literature, development economics, immigrant healthcare and Latin American music. Students can also participate in the Latin American Studies Semester. Classes & Curriculum To earn the Latin American Studies BA degree, students must take 12 three-credit courses in Latin American Studies and demonstrate a reading and speaking knowledge of Spanish or Portuguese. The curriculum culminates in a research-based, writing-intensive capstone seminar. Courses you are likely to take as part of the Latin American Studies Major curriculum include the following. Perspectives on Latin America (Gateway Foundation course) Legacy of Mesoamerica (required) Introduction to Latinx Studies Comparative Political Systems in Latin America Fundamentals of Latin American Business Survey of Spanish American Literature "Other Voices" in Latin American Literature Africans in Latin America The Spanish Conquest of the Americas Race, Gender, and Empire in the Iberian World Revolution and Beyond: Modern and Contemporary Art in Latin America Zombie Apocalypse: Holy Land, Haiti, and Hollywood Peoples of Latin America Learn more about Latin American Studies BA courses, and review the current course guide. Related Graduate Degrees Art History PhD* History PhD Liberal Arts MLA Media and Communication PhD** Political Science PhD Religion PhD Sociology MA Sociology PhD Spanish MA Spanish PhD *Tyler School of Art and Architecture **Klein College of Media and Communication Certificate Programs The College of Liberal Arts has 22 undergraduate certificate programs for you to expand your knowledge and diversify your Temple education. Certificates can complement bachelor's programs, allowing you to specialize in an area and highlight your exposure to disciplines outside of your major. Tuition & Fees In keeping with Temple’s commitment to access and affordability, the Bachelor of Arts offers a competitive level of tuition with multiple opportunities for financial support. Tuition rates are set annually by the university and are affected by multiple factors, including program degree level (undergraduate or graduate), course load (full- or part-time), in-state or out-of-state residency, and more. Learn more about our tuition and fees. These tuition costs apply to the 2021–2022 academic year. Pennsylvania resident: $16,488.00 per year Out-of-state: $29,712.00 per year Our Academic Advisors Joyce K. Salzberg Center for Professional Development Dedicated advisors at the Joyce K. Salzberg Center for Professional Development in the College of Liberal Arts are available to guide students through their academic careers and with their career paths beyond Temple. They can help you choose a major, navigate your curriculum, identify internship opportunities, explore career opportunities and determine your post-graduation plans. Learn more about the center. Program Contact For more information about the Latin American Studies Major, contact the following staff member. Michelle Xu is an administrator in the Latin American Studies Department. Phone: 215-204-5628 Email: xu.michelle@temple.edu The following staff member leads the Latin American Studies Department. Adam Joseph Shellhorse is the director. Phone: 215-204-8285 Email: aj.shellhorse@temple.edu University Honors Program The College of Liberal Arts participates in Temple’s Honors Program. Learn more about the program and how to be admitted. Students who meet certain academic and extracurricular criteria may become members of the following honor societies. Alpha Lambda Delta is a national society that honors academic excellence during a student's first year at college. Golden Key is an international society that enables members to realize their potential through the advancement of academics, leadership and service. Phi Beta Kappa is open to juniors and seniors in the College of Liberal Arts. To qualify for Phi Beta Kappa, a student must maintain a high grade point average in a broad, rigorous program of study in the liberal arts, including mathematics and foreign languages. Learn more about Temple’s Honor Societies. Student Clubs & Organizations Supplement your College of Liberal Arts coursework and enhance your undergraduate experience at Temple with more than 300 student clubs and organizations. You’ll have opportunities to meet and network with other students, get involved with the community, grow your interests, and develop résumé-boosting skills and experiences. Students in the Latin American Studies BA may participate in the following clubs and organizations. ADEL (Asociación de Estudiantes Latinos at Temple) is the Latino umbrella organization on campus. It aims to enhance awareness of Latino issues and heritage in the Temple University community, to provide a forum for discussion for Latino students, and more. The Brazilian Student Association (BRASA) is an organization with educational and cultural goals for Brazilians who study abroad. Accordingly, BRASA at Temple is an organization with cultural, educational and social goals directed to undergraduate and graduate Brazilian students who study or who have studied at Temple University. Club de Español is a student organization, and its principal goal is to promote the practice of speaking Spanish. This is achieved through weekly conversation tables, which allow students to practice their conversation skills in a relaxed environment. Hispanic culture is celebrated all year through different student activities. Esencia Latina strives to provide students of Temple University with the opportunity to explore, educate and experience the Latino culture through the art form of dance. Through performances, workshops and a variety of cultural events, the club pairs a passion for dance with an exploration of the Latino heritage. Learn more about Temple’s student clubs and organizations. Study Away College of Liberal Arts undergraduate students are encouraged to study away for an academic year, semester or over the summer term. Enrich your experience at Temple by immersing yourself in new cultures, histories and perspectives. Latin American Studies Semester (LASS) is a unique language immersion program that provides students with an intensive experience studying the Spanish language, as well as an interdisciplinary study of life and contemporary issues in Latin America. LASS integrates several courses, totaling 17 credits. All courses are taught in Spanish and take place on Temple’s Main Campus. An integral aspect of the LASS program is a three-week, annual trip to Quito, Ecuador. Students are placed in local homes in which the only language of communication is Spanish. While in Ecuador, students attend courses at the Andean Center for Latin American Studies. Learn more about your options for studying away. Accreditation Temple University’s departments and programs are accredited by the Middle States Commission on Higher Education. LA-LAS-BA Additional Program Information Available as a minor. Visit College Site View Program Details Go back to AcademicsMore in Latin American Studies Major Admissions Careers, Internships & Opportunities Required Courses Research & Facilities Scholarships & Financial Aid Apply Visit Request More Info Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Calendar Policies Social Media TUportal TUmail Accessibility Careers at Temple Safety & Emergency Information Ethics & Compliance Privacy Statement Professional Licensure Disclosures Follow Temple University Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community. Apply Visit Request More Info