Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Search Type Faculty & Staff Event Featured Profile News Opportunity Resource Student Research Project Videos Search Menu Info for… [Select an Audience] [Select An Audience] Admitted Graduate Students Current Graduate Students Employers Departments» Applied Physics and Applied Mathematics Biomedical Engineering Chemical Engineering Civil Engineering and Engineering Mechanics Computer Science Earth and Environmental Engineering Electrical Engineering Industrial Engineering and Operations Research Mechanical Engineering Admissions» Application Requirements Apply Admissions Events Campus Tours Frequently Asked Questions Graduate Funding Opportunities Tuition and Financial Aid Visit Us Brochures Graduate Student Life» Professional Development & Leadership Housing New Student Checklist Student Organizations Campus Resources Graduate Career Placement Graduation Class Day 2022 events for Graduate Students Fellowships & Opportunities The Graduate Student Affairs Team Graduate Students Resources Events & Activities Diversity and Community Engagement» Events Student Life Bridge to PhD Program Graduate Enrollment Services» Registration Requests Change of Status Change of Status Forms Learning Online Resources List» Columbia Engineering COVID-19 Emergency Fund for Doctoral Students Virtual Event Opportunities» Welcome New Students!» New Student Checklist Admitted Student Webinars Applying for a Visa Campus Resources Connect Engineering Welcome Day & Orientation Housing Information International Student Panel Frequently Asked Questions Program Kick-Off Schedule Apply Now News Bulletin Graduate Engineering Home > Admissions Apply Application Requirements Apply Admissions Events Campus Tours Frequently Asked Questions Graduate Funding Opportunities Tuition and Financial Aid Visit Us Brochures Explore the options available to students looking to pursue a Master of Science, Doctoral, or Certificate program at Columbia Engineering. The 2022 Application is now live! Read below to determine and select the application that will best suit your academic goals. Applicants may not submit more than one application per academic term. On-Campus Programs On-Campus MS and PhD Programs APPLY NOW! Columbia Engineering offers the following programs on-campus. To find your program on the application, select the department or institute first, and then degree. Applied Physics and Applied Mathematics Applied Mathematics: MS, MS/PhD, PhD Applied Physics: MS, MS/PhD, PhD, Eng.Sc.D. Materials Science and Engineering: MS, MS/PhD, PhD, Eng.Sc.D. Medical Physics: Certificate, MS Biomedical Engineering Biomedical Engineering: MS, MD/MS, MS/PhD, PhD, Eng.Sc.D. Chemical Engineering Chemical Engineering: MS, MS/PhD, PhD, Eng.Sc.D. Civil Engineering Civil Engineering: MS, MS/PhD, PhD, Eng.Sc.D. Engineering Mechanics: MS, MS/PhD, PhD, Eng.Sc.D. Computer Engineering Computer Engineering: MS Computer Science Computer Science: MS, MS/PhD, PhD, Eng.Sc.D. Computer Science [email protected] MS Bridge Journalism and Computer Science Dual MS Data Science Data Science: Certificate, MS Earth and Environmental Engineering Carbon Management: MS Earth and Environmental Engineering: MS, MS/PhD, PhD, Eng.Sc.D. Electrical Engineering Electrical Engineering: MS, MS/PhD, PhD, Eng.Sc.D. Industrial Engineering and Operations Research Business Analytics: MS Financial Engineering: MS Industrial Engineering: MS, MS/PhD, PhD, Eng.Sc.D. Management Science and Engineering: MS Operations Research: MS, MS/PhD, PhD, Eng.Sc.D. Mechanical Engineering Mechanical Engineering: MS, MS/PhD, PhD, Eng.Sc.D. BEGIN YOUR APPLICATION NOW! On-Campus Certificate and Professional Degrees APPLY NOW! Certificate in Data Science The Certification of Professional Achievement in Data Sciences prepares students to expand their career prospects or change career paths by developing foundational data science skills. Eligibility Requirements: Undergraduate degree Prior quantitative coursework (calculus, linear algebra, etc.) Prior introductory to computer programming coursework Certificate in Medical Physics Our Commission on Accreditation of Medical Physics Education Programs (CAMPEP) accredited Certificate of Professional Achievement in Medical Physics is designed for professionals who have a PhD in physics or a related discipline and who wish to become eligible to apply for the medical physics examinations given by the American Board of Radiology (ABR). All applicants to the Certificate of Professional Achievement in Medical Physics must sign and upload a copy of the Medical Physics Agreement certifying that they meet the eligibility requirements of the program. Eligibility Requirements: Doctoral degree in physics, applied physics, or one of the physical sciences Undergraduate degree in physics, or substantive physics training Professional Degree; Engineer of Mines The program is designed for engineers who wish to do advanced work beyond the level of the M.S. degree but who do not desire to emphasize research. Eligibility Requirements: Undergraduate engineering degree Minimum 3.0 GPA GRE Scores Professional Degree; Metallurgical Engineer The program is designed for engineers who wish to do advanced work beyond the level of the M.S. degree but who do not desire to emphasize research. Eligibility Requirements: Undergraduate engineering degree Minimum 3.0 GPA GRE Scores Columbia University Student/Alumni Options MS Express APPLY NOW! The MS Express application is a simplified process of applying to Columbia Engineering's Master of Science programs available to currently enrolled seniors at Columbia Engineering, Columbia College, Barnard, General Studies and young alumni (young alumni are students who graduated from Columbia Engineering, Columbia College, Barnard, or General Studies within the last five years). A minimum cumulative 3.50 GPA is required. Columbia Engineering undergraduates and young alumni may apply to any engineering MS program using the express application. Applicants from Columbia College, Barnard, or General Studies should refer to this chart to determine eligibility. Application Requirements: Official transcripts Personal statement Resume or CV Contact information for three reference providers No application fee required Integrated BS/MS Programs APPLY NOW! The Integrated BS/MS Program is offered in Biomedical Engineering, Electrical Engineering, and Mechanical Engineering. The program is open only to Columbia University juniors with a cumulative GPA of 3.40. After earning the BS degree, students are able to seamlessly proceed toward earning their MS degree. Merging the BS and MS programs allows Columbia students to earn the MS degree in a very flexible and efficient manner. Application Requirements: Official transcripts Personal statement Resume or CV Contact information for three reference providers No application fee required Barnard 4+1 Pathways for Accelerated Graduate Study APPLY NOW! The Barnard 4+1 Pathway is offered to current Barnard College juniors with a GPA of 3.5 or higher to apply to Master's programs in Biomedical Engineering, Chemical Engineering, Civil Engineering, Computer Science, Electrical Engineering, Mechanical Engineering, and Industrial Engineering and Operations Research. Students should inquire with Beyond Barnard and plan on attending an introductory information sessions for the unique 4+1 Pathway they may be interested in pursuing. Each introductory session will be led by faculty advisors, who will be available to provide an overview of the program and its requirements, the admission process, and to advise students. Deadline: February 15th of Junior year. Application Requirements: Official transcripts Personal statement Resume or CV Contact information for three reference providers No application fee required MD-MS in Biomedical Engineering APPLY NOW! The Doctor of Medicine/Master of Science in Biomedical Engineering (MD/MS) dual degree program is an integrated program offered between the Fu Foundation School of Engineering and Applied Sciences and the Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons at Columbia University. The purpose of this program is to supplement the current training of medical students with world-class training in biomedical engineering at the graduate-level. This interdisciplinary educational experience will prepare students to become innovative leaders in science, engineering, and medicine. The program is open to a select group of Columbia medical students and makes possible the earning of both the MD and MS degree in 5 years (4 years for the MD program, 1 year for the MS program). The program allows for 6 pts from the MD degree, through completion of anatomy coursework, counted toward the Master of Science degree requirements. Application Requirements: Current status of third year MD student at the Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons at Columbia University Official transcripts Personal statement Resume or CV Contact information for three reference providers No application fee required Online Learning Columbia Video Network Since its inception in 1986, Columbia Video Network (CVN) has been leading the field of online learning, enabling thousands of working professionals and remotely-located students to benefit from our part-time, online graduate engineering degree and certificate programs without having to come on campus. Learn more about the programs offered by CVN. Note, students may not submit applications to both on-campus and online programs. Before You Start If you have not done so already, review the Application Requirements prior to beginning your application. Application Requirements Questions? Do you have questions on the application or the admissions process? Review our Frequently Asked Questions (FAQ) for more information. FAQ Nondegree Registration Individuals interested in enrolling in graduate coursework at Columbia Engineering as nondegree students should consider our One-Term Nondegree program. Enrollment for the One-Term Nondegree program will take place during the first week of the semester. Students must submit the One-Term Non-Degree Application. For submission, course instructors' approval is required and space is not guaranteed. One-Term Nondegree students will be permitted to take a maximum of two graduate engineering courses in any one term, or within the period of one academic year. For more information, please contact us at [email protected]. Student interested in applying to the Visiting Graduate Non-degree program should apply via the Visiting Graduate Non-degree application. One-Term Non-Degree Application Office of Graduate Student Affairs 500 W. 120th Street New York, NY 10027 Admissions (212) 854-4688 | [email protected] Academics and Student Affairs (212) 854-6438 | [email protected] Apply Now Plan a Visit Directory Columbia Engineering Columbia University