Skip to main content Explore Sections open search open menu Close From the latest big breakthrough to the most influential and inspiring figures on campus to Pitt in the community, Pittwire is your official source for what’s happening now. Explore By Topics Health and Wellness Technology and Science Arts and Humanities Community Impact Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Global Innovation and Research Our City/Our Campus Explore By Category Features & Articles Accolades & Honors Ones to Watch Announcements and Updates Pittwire Other Links Pitt Magazine Event Calendar Social Media Directory Close Search Pitt Search Search for People Close Global Menu Apply Visit Give Pittwire Events Navigation Navigation About Academics Admissions Research Life at Pitt Athletics Colleges & Schools Colleges & Schools Arts & Sciences Business Computing & Information Dental Medicine Education Engineering General Studies Health & Rehabilitation Honors College Law Medicine Nursing Pharmacy Public & Intl Affairs Public Health Social Work Info For Info For Alumni Community Global Sustainability Twitter Instagram Facebook Youtube Close Search Pittwire Search Search www.pitt.edu Ones to Watch Toya Jones Tags Health and Wellness Community Impact Subscribe to Pittwire Get the most interesting and important stories from the University of Pittsburgh. Subscribe Studying trauma and its impact. Toya Jones has known her purpose in life since she was 11 years old. One day while at school, she walked into the bathroom and unexpectedly discovered a classmate committing an act of self-harm. Jones wasn’t scared and didn’t panic. She walked over to the young lady and asked how she could help. They talked. Jones listened. And the girl was eventually able to receive the support she needed. “I remember talking to her and hearing her pain, and I decided to help her,” recalls Jones. It was clear to Jones from that moment on that helping people was what she was supposed to do with her life. Today, Jones is a licensed therapist, an expert witness for the federal courts, director Pitt’s Bachelor of Arts in Social Work (BASW) program and an instructor of social work—not to mention a respected author on trauma and its impact. Recently, she completed her EdD in Pitt’s School of Education, and she holds a master’s degree in social work from Pitt as well. Jones, a Pittsburgh native, cites the University’s stellar reputation as a key factor in her decision to further her education in her hometown in addition to the high-ranking programs offered by the School of Social Work. The courses offered her a direct practice track, meaning her course work could be applied to the required working hours for therapists in the field. This also meant a more targeted path to her goal of helping those in need. According to Jones, “The School of Social Work helped me become who I was going to be.” As BASW program director, Jones regularly directs her students and prospective students to the many opportunities available to them through the school. She often touts the value of her education and how the program is even better than when she started. As a professor, she gives her students just what she gives her clients and what she gave her middle school classmate: her full attention and her commitment to help. It is her goal for her students to reach their fullest potential at whatever level of social work experience and knowledge they seek, because she knows firsthand how her Pitt education has laid the groundwork for her success. Trending The University of Pittsburgh will compete for $10 billion in military health contracts Register now for Pitt’s 2022 Diversity Forum How do monarch butterflies know where to migrate? Global Menu Apply Visit Give Pittwire Events About Academics Admissions Research Life at Pitt Athletics Quick Links & Resources Quick Links & Resources Accessibility Statement Careers Consumer Info/Achievement Contact Us Departments A-Z Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Find People Information Technology LGBTQ+ Nondiscrimination and Anti-Harassment Policy My Pitt Regional Campuses Regional Campuses Bradford Greensburg Johnstown Titusville Colleges & Schools Colleges & Schools Arts & Sciences Business Computing & Information Dental Medicine Education Engineering General Studies Health & Rehabilitation Honors College Law Medicine Nursing Pharmacy Public & Intl Affairs Public Health Social Work 4200 Fifth Ave. Pittsburgh, PA 15260 United States +1 412-624-4141 Twitter Instagram Facebook Youtube