Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Campus Recreation About Us Membership Fitness Nutrition Wellness Aquatics & Safety Sports & Intramurals Facilities Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact Our Facilities Facilities R. Brad Martin Student Wellness Center Student Recreation and Sports Complex Facility Space Request Take Action Find a Fitness Class Hours of Operation Sign Up for a Membership Contact Us Connect with Us InstagramFacebooktwitter Home Campus Recreation Our Facilities Facilities We strive to provide facilities that help you stay healthy, active and engaged. The $31 million R. Brad Martin Student Wellness Center and Plaza opened summer 2021. The 78,000+ square foot two-story facility is located at 3735 Southern Avenue, adjacent to the Hunter Harrison pedestrian cable bridge and five-story, 1140-space parking garage. The Center features expanded cardio and weight training areas, indoor and outdoor basketball courts, four fitness studios, Tiger Food Lab teaching kitchen, Tiger Café, indoor track, three tennis courts, outdoor leisure pool, classroom space and more. Members have access to free group fitness classes and reduced rates for services, such as personal training and massage therapy. The new building operates in addition to the UofM's existing Student Recreation and Sports Complex, which continues to provide intramural sports, club sports, basketball, volleyball, badminton, racquetball, outdoor playing fields and indoor swimming (currently under construction). Spaces are available for reservation for classes, events, activities, contests and sports. Please visit Facility Space Request for more information. Accessibility Campus Recreation strives to ensure that its facilities, programs, and services are accessible to all students and patrons, including those with disabilities. Among the ways that our facilities and programs are made accessible to those with disabilities are: accessible parking spaces located in the parking lot directly to the west of our entrance. fully accessible entrances and exits. accessible shower and restroom stalls in locker room. active Hands workout accessories available for checkout in the equipment room in the south hallway (or at the front desk. during times when the equipment room is not staffed). assisted access lifts available at pools, as well as stairs for pool entrance and exit. equipment orientation sessions available by appointment by calling 901.678.1383. other accommodations provided as needed. Inquire at front entry desk or call 901.678.1383. Closures The following areas are closed at this time: Indoor Pool Sauna, whirlpool and steam room Equipment desk For more information, please call 901.678.3285 or 901.678.1383. Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 5/17/22 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.