Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Office of Internal Audit & Consulting Our Role External Audits Newsletters Resources Contact Information Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact How can I propose a change to a policy? What steps are involved in the audit process? Answers to these questions and more Review the University's Policies Policy GE2014 relates to misuse of resources Safeguard the University Report fraud, waste or abuse of University resources PreviousNext Take Action What Is An Audit? FAQs Submit a Report Contact Us Home Office of Internal Audit & Consulting Office of Internal Audit and Consulting Who We Are We are audit, accounting and fraud investigation professionals whose combined education and experience include accounting, management, finance, consulting, information systems and fraud investigations. As University employees, we have dual reporting responsibility to the President of the University and to the Audit Committee of the University of Memphis Board of Trustees. This reporting relationship enables Internal Audit to independently and objectively review matters involving any level of administration at the University. Our primary task is to review organizational functions and underlying processes to determine whether they support the goals and objectives of the University. We also have responsibility for investigating reports of fraud, waste and abuse pursuant to state statutes and the University. The Value of Internal Audit <!-- intentionally non-empty iframe; for xsl --> Mission and scope of work The mission of Internal Audit is to provide independent, objective assurance and consulting services designed to add value and improve University operations. We help the University accomplish its objectives by systematically evaluating the effectiveness of risk management, control, and governance processes and recommending improvements when needed. Our scope of work is to determine whether the University's network of risk management, control, and governance processes, as designed and represented by management, is adequate and functioning in a manner that ensures: Risks are identified and managed. Financial, managerial, and operating reports are accurate, reliable, and timely. Employee actions are in compliance with policies, standards, procedures, and applicable laws and regulations. Resources are adequately protected and used efficiently. Operational objectives are achieved. Legislative or regulatory compliance issues are recognized and addressed appropriately. Audit issues relating to these areas will be reported to responsible managers, University officials, and the Board of Trustees. In addition, opportunities for improving processes and controls may be identified during audit engagements and communicated to the appropriate level of management. Internal Controls As noted in the Audit Charter, University Management has the primary responsibility for establishing and maintaining a sufficient system of internal controls. University Management is required to assess risk and develop adequate internal controls pursuant to state statutes (TCA 9-18-101, Known as "The Tennessee Financial Integrity Act"). In accordance with instructions from the Tennessee Department of Finance and Administration, Management's annual evaluation of internal controls follows guidance issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations (COSO) regarding internal controls. Additional Information May be Located at These Links: Tennessee Department of Finance and Administration COSO Internal Controls Framework Internal Control Self-Assessment Checklist COSO Fraud Risk Management Guide - Executive Summary Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 8/8/19 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.