Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu UofM Media Room Publications News Releases Podcasts Events Resources Contact Us Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact News Releases Awards News Releases Archive Take Action Music Performance Calendar Upcoming Art Exhibits University Events Contact Us Follow Us Online InstagramFacebooktwitterYoutubeLinkedIn Home UofM Media Room News Releases University of Memphis News Releases | Most Recent | - Thursday, May 26 - UofM Board of Trustees will meet June 1 The University of Memphis Board of Trustees will meet on June 1 in the Maxine A. Smith University Center on the UofM campus. The committee meetings will be held in the UC Fountain View Boardroom beginning at 8 a.m. and will run consecutively. The Audit Committee will meet in an executive session to discuss matters confidential under state law. The full Board of Trustees meeting will begin at 1 p.m. in the UC Ballroom. All meetings are open to the public and the Board meeting will be livestreamed. More on the board meeting > - Wednesday, May 11 - Dr. Linda Haddad Named UofM’s Dean of the Loewenberg College of Nursing Dr. Linda Haddad has been named dean of the Loewenberg College of Nursing, effective Aug. 1. Haddad is an Irwin Belk distinguished professor and currently the director of the School of Nursing at the University of North Carolina Wilmington. Prior to joining UNCW, Haddad served as the associate dean for academic affairs at the University of Florida College of Nursing, the dean of the Faculty of Nursing at the Jordan University of Science and Technology (JUST), the director of the World Health Organization Collaborating Center for Health and Development and the deputy director of the JUST-affiliated King Abdullah University Hospital. Read about Dr. Haddad > - Tuesday, May 10 - UofM’s Institute for Public Service Reporting Launches New Project Exploring Racial Injustice; Laura Faith Kebede Named Coordinator The University of Memphis’ Institute for Public Service Reporting (IPSR) is launching a new investigative journalism project to explore racial injustice in the Mid-South and is hiring veteran journalist Laura Faith Kebede to head it up. More on Kebede > - Monday, May 9 - University of Memphis ranked safest large campus in Tennessee for 7th time in last 10 years The University of Memphis once again ranks as the safest large campus in the State of Tennessee, according to the Tennessee Bureau of Investigation’s 2021 Crime on Campus Report. This marks the seventh time in 10 years the UofM has ranked as the safest of the state’s 10 universities with a student population of more than 5,000. Read about campus safety > - Thursday, May 5 - $25 Million Grant for GROWWTH Largest in UofM History A community partnership led by the University of Memphis received a record $25 million Tennessee Opportunity Pilot Initiative (TOPI) Implementation Grant for its Growing Relational and Generational Wealth for West Tennessee Households (GROWWTH) proposal. The Tennessee Department of Human Services (TDHS) Families First Community Advisory Board awarded the grant. Learn more about GROWWTH > - Thursday, May 5 - Global Tech Company Ookla® Expands Operations in Tennessee in UofM Research Park Ookla®, an internationally recognized leader in network intelligence and connectivity insights, today opens its new office at the University of Memphis Research Foundation (UMRF) Research Park. Learn more about Ookla® and the expansion > - Wednesday, May 4 - UofM to Hold Largest Commencement with 2,713 Graduates at FedExForum The University of Memphis will recognize a record 2,713 graduates from spring 2022, the first under UofM President Bill Hardgrave, with three commencement ceremonies at 10 a.m., 1:30 p.m. and 5 p.m. on Saturday, May 7, at FedExForum. It is the UofM’s largest in-person participating class in one semester. Richard C. Shadyac Jr., president and chief executive officer of ALSAC, will be the commencement speaker. View additional Commencement information > - Tuesday, April 12 - UMRF Ventures Inc. Celebrates 5th Anniversary UMRF Ventures Inc., the private company founded in 2017 by the University of Memphis Research Foundation with a grant from FedEx, will celebrate five years in business with a reception at its headquarters on UofM’s Park Avenue Campus Wednesday at 5:30 p.m. UofM President Bill Hardgrave and Rob Carter, executive vice president, Information Services, FedEx Corporation, will be in attendance. Celebrating five years of UMRF Ventures > - Tuesday, April 5 - University of Memphis’ Hooks Institute to Premiere Documentary on Life and Legacy of Ida B. Wells on April 19 The Benjamin L. Hooks Institute for Social Change at the University of Memphis will host the premiere film screening of “Facing Down Storms: Memphis and the Making of Ida B. Wells” on April 19 at the Halloran Centre for Performing Arts and Education. A reception will begin at 5:30 p.m. followed by the program and film screening at 7 p.m. More on the documentary > - Friday, April 1 - Dr. Bill Hardgrave begins first day as 13th President of the University of Memphis Dr. Bill Hardgrave began his first official day as the 13th President of the University of Memphis on campus Friday meeting, greeting, listening and learning. Prior to the UofM, Hardgrave served as Auburn University’s Provost and Senior Vice President for Academic Affairs since January 2018. He served as dean of Auburn’s Harbert College of Business from August 2010 through December 2017. Read about Dr. Hardgrave > - Wednesday, March 30 - UofM to host Second Annual Day of Giving Event April 5-6 The UofM will host its second annual Day of Giving, a 24-hour, University-wide giving event from noon on April 5 to noon on April 6. The campaign, “Driven by Giving,” is an opportunity for students, faculty, staff, alumni and friends to show their support for UofM students. About the Day of Giving > - Tuesday, March 29 - UofM receives 31 U.S. News & World Report Best Graduate Programs Rankings The University of Memphis was ranked in 31 U.S. News & World Report Best Graduate Programs national rankings for 2023 that were released Tuesday, an increase from 26 a year ago. The UofM was the highest-ranked institution in Tennessee for the third-straight year by U.S. News & World Report in its 2022 rankings of online programs. The UofM’s status in these rankings began its incredible climb five years ago, culminating in the top spot for three consecutive years. More on the rankings > - Friday, March 25 - University of Memphis Law ranked in top 20 for African American Students by preLaw Magazine The University of Memphis Cecil C. Humphreys School of Law has been ranked the 19th best law school nationally for African American students in the latest issue of preLaw magazine. Memphis Law was also included among the top schools on the magazine's annual "Diversity Honor Roll" for 2022. Read about the ranking > - Wednesday, March 16 - University of Memphis Lambuth True Blue Day on March 19 The UofM Lambuth True Blue Day is set for March 19 with an all-day celebration on campus, highlighted by the alumni awards reception and dinner in the Jack Morris Ballroom at 6:30 p.m. For more information on the event, to buy tickets and to purchase merchandise, click here. More on True Blue Day > - Friday, March 11 - UofM Rudi E. Scheidt School of Music to Host 9th Annual Memphis International Guitar Festival Noted classical guitar masters from around the country and the world will be returning to the University of Memphis Rudi E. Scheidt School of Music for the 9th Annual Memphis International Guitar Festival sponsored by the Augustine Foundation on March 18-20. Learn more about the festival > - Monday, March 7 - UofM Honored Among Top Military Friendly Schools for Eighth Consecutive Year The University of Memphis has been honored among the top Military Friendly Schools for the eighth consecutive year, as the institution received Gold recognition for 2022-23. The list honors the top colleges, universities and trade schools that are doing the most to embrace military service members and veterans as students and ensure their success on campus. More on the honor > - Thursday, March 4 - Pinnacle Financial Partners Gift to the UofM’s Hooks Institute to Honor Life and Work of Herman Strickland Pinnacle Financial Partners is presenting a $15,000 financial gift to the Benjamin L. Hooks Institute in the name of Herman Strickland, a long-time Pinnacle leader and pillar of the community with countless contributions to Memphis and the Mid-South. In addition to the contribution, the director’s office at the Hooks Institute is now named in Strickland’s honor. About the gift > - Thursday, March 3 - University of Memphis selected by Amazon as an Education Partner for Career Choice Program The University of Memphis has been selected as an education partner for Amazon’s Career Choice program, providing Amazon’s hourly employees access to many nationally ranked academic programs. Associates will be able to take courses on the Central campus, at UofM Lambuth or online through UofM Global. Learn about the program > - Wednesday, March 2 - Dr. Ashish Joshi named Dean of the School of Public Health at the UofM Dr. Ashish Joshi has been named dean of the School of Public Health at the University of Memphis, effective Aug. 1. Joshi is currently senior associate dean of Academic and Student Affairs and professor of Epidemiology and Biostatistics at the CUNY Graduate School of Public Health and Health Policy-New York. He joined CUNY in 2014 as a founding assistant dean of student affairs. In 2016, he was promoted to associate dean of Student and Alumni Affairs. He was appointed to his current position in 2018. More about Dr. Joshi > - Tuesday, March 1 - University of Memphis Establishes Rudd Institute for Veteran and Military Suicide Prevention During its quarterly meeting on Tuesday, the University of Memphis Board of Trustees announced the establishment of the Rudd Institute for Veteran and Military Suicide Prevention in appreciation to UofM President M. David Rudd. Read about the Institute > - Tuesday, Jan. 25 - UofM Online Programs No. 1 in Tennessee for 3rd Straight Year by U.S. News & World Report The University of Memphis is the highest-ranked institution in Tennessee for the third-straight year by U.S. News & World Report in its 2022 rankings of online programs. The UofM’s status in these rankings began its incredible climb five years ago, culminating in the top spot for three consecutive years. The UofM is ranked in the top 150 in nine categories nationally, including six in the top 30. More on the rankings > - Thursday, Dec. 16 - University of Memphis receives prestigious Carnegie R1 designation as a top tier research university The University of Memphis has been named an R1 institution by the Carnegie Classification of Institutions of Higher Education, putting the UofM in the top tier of research universities nationally. About Carnegie R1 > | Top Stories | UofM Board of Trustees to receive 2022 John W. Nason Award for Board Leadership by Association of Governing Boards January 26 | The University of Memphis Board of Trustees has been selected to receive the 2022 John W. Nason Award for Board Leadership by the Association of Governing Boards of Universities and Colleges (AGB), the premier organization representing higher education governing boards. The Nason Award, established in 1992, is presented in partnership with TIAA to higher education governing boards that demonstrate exceptional leadership and initiative. Dr. Bill Hardgrave named 13th President of the University of Memphis November 9 | Dr. Bill Hardgrave has been named the 13th President of the University of Memphis, the UofM’s Board of Trustees announced Tuesday. Hardgrave served as Auburn University’s Provost and Senior Vice President for Academic Affairs since January 2018. He served as dean of Auburn’s Harbert College of Business from August 2010 through December 2017. U.S. News & World Report national ranking for University of Memphis improves for fourth straight year September 13 | U.S. News & World Report’s national ranking for the University of Memphis has improved for the fourth straight year for Top Public Schools and third consecutive year for Best National Universities. The No. 2-ranked public university in the State of Tennessee, UofM’s Top Public School ranking has increased to No. 123 in 2022 from No. 126 in 2021, No. 135 in 2020 and not ranked in 2019. University of Memphis achieves record $50.2M in research awards in fiscal year 2021 August 26 | The University of Memphis reached $50.23 million in research awards in the 2021 fiscal year, a new institution record and a 23.2% increase from the previous year. This continues a year-over-year upward climb in research awards as the UofM reached $40.76 million in FY 20, $32.59 million in FY19 and $31.86 million in FY18. UofM Lambuth expanding nursing program August 23 | The University of Memphis Lambuth is expanding its Loewenberg College of Nursing program after remodeling a portion of the library to increase the program’s growth by 50 percent. It will address workforce needs for West Tennessee Healthcare. Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 5/26/22 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.