Skip to main content Restrict my search to College of Liberal Arts and Social Sciences Submit Close Login to AccessUH Give to UH Search Communication Sciences and Disorders About the Department About the Profession Alumni and Friends Financial Assistance Contact Information People Faculty Staff Clinical Educators Students Programs Ph.D. Program Master's Program Undergraduate Post-Baccalaureate Leveling Program SLPA American Sign Language Interpreting (ASLI) Program Learning Abroad Speech, Language, and Hearing Mobile Unit Autism Mentoring Program University SLH Clinic About the Clinic Hearing Services Adult Speech-Language Services Child Speech-Language Services Summer Programs Community Outreach Clinic Forms Parking Research News News Archive Events Giving UH Home College of Liberal Arts and Social Sciences Communication Sciences and Disorders University SLH Clinic Speech-Language Services University SLH Clinic About the Clinic Hearing Services Adult Speech-Language Services Child Speech-Language Services Summer Programs Community Outreach Clinic Forms Parking Melcher Life Sciences 3871 Holman St. Room M156 Houston, TX 77204-6018 Phone: (713) 743-0915 Fax: (713) 743-2926 Email: uslhc@uh.edu Speech/Language Clinic Program Speech/Language Diagnostic Services- Children and adults suspected of having communication disorders (i.e., articulation, voice, fluency, apraxia, aphasia, cognitive-communication, and verbal and written language) are seen at the University Speech-Language-Hearing Clinic: A United Way agency (USLHC) in order to evaluate their speech and language behavior. Please see the attached message regarding the delivery of services through the COVID-19 restrictions. We are pleased to be offering services for children and adults through telepractice at this time. Please call (713) 743-0915 for more information. Please click here for the general child case history form. For the general adult case history form, click here. Treatment Services - Children and adults diagnosed with speech, language or hearing impairments (i.e., articulation, voice, fluency, apraxia, aphasia, cognitive-communication, and language) may receive individual or small group treatment services. Cougar Communication Pals - This innovative and affordable service delivery model will be offered via telepractice for the summer of 2020. CCPals is designed to provide pairs of children an interactive therapy experience to improve speech and language skills and maintain progress made during the school year. CCPals will promote interaction between client participants along with family engagement and education. Click here for English flyer Click here for Spanish flyer Click here for registration form Click here for consent for telepractice Cougar Communication Groups - These affordable and intensive summer therapy groups are for children ages 18 months and up. They are designed to improve speech and language skills and maintain progress made during the school year. Our summer program features adjusted tuition for families with lower incomes, small groups with a ratio of 1 clinician to 2 children, and fun activities. Groups focus on a specific disorder area. Various groups are available to focus on: language, articulation/ phonology, social, fluency, and voice skills. These groups are especially appropriate for children who do not receive public school services during the summer. Preschool Language Learning Group (LLG) Program – Children ages two-to-five receive intensive language development intervention during three-hour group sessions on Tuesday and Thursday mornings from 9-12pm. For the latest LLG enrollment packet, please click here. Preschool Social Skills group (PSS) – Children ages two-to-five receive intensive social communication development intervention during three-hour group sessions on Tuesday and Thursday mornings from 9-12pm. For the latest PSS enrollment packet, please click here. Fluency Specialty Clinic Program – Diagnostic and treatment services are provided to children and adults with stuttering and other fluency disorders. Intervention options include individual and group therapy, and The Lidcombe Program, which is parent-implemented therapy for preschool and young school-age children. Please click here for the adult stuttering case history form. Please click here for the child and pre-teen stuttering case history form. Bilingual Assessment and Intervention Services – Children with communication difficulties who are learning more than one language have unique needs that can be supported by a knowledgeable speech-language pathologist. This fall we will be providing assessment and intervention services for bilingual children in order to achieve the best communication in all interactions and all languages. Adult Language and Cognition Services – Treatment programs are individualized for adults who are recovering from a stroke, head injury, or other neurological condition, such as Parkinson’s Disease and Multiple Sclerosis. The programs address communication needs related to work, home, and/or social settings. Please click here for the cognitive case history form. Post-Stroke Communication Group Program – Adults with aphasia come together for treatment and communication interactions with other stroke survivors. Communication Groups are offered once a week for a two-hour period, with individual treatment also available on a weekly basis for those interested in supplemental individual services. Group members practice using functional communication skills and compensatory strategies for community living. The program is appropriate for individuals no longer eligible for hospital-based rehabilitation who continue to benefit from long-term comprehensive speech-language therapy. Please click here for the aphasia case history form. Accent Modification Program – Group and individual services are available for individuals who wish to refine their pronunciation of English for career and social interaction purposes. Please click here for the accent modification case history form. Communication Enhancement Group (CEG), an Alternative and Augmentative Communication (AAC) program serves the Houston community including children diagnosed with severe speech and language delays and adults with acquired disorders presenting with communication difficulties. Services provided include assessment of communication skills, recommendations for improving communication skills, development of a communication for the individual and caretakers, and paperwork for funding of a device, if required. Please click here for the CEG/AAC case history form. Voice Evaluation and Intervention Program – The Voice Therapy Program for adults and children emphasizes achievement of the best voice possible, as well as the prevention of voice disorders. Services are tailored for individuals with hoarseness and/or those experiencing difficulty with vocal quality, voice loss, adequate loudness, pitch, or vocal fatigue. Evaluation and therapy may benefit individuals with conditions such as vocal nodules, muscle tension dysphonia, vocal cord dysfunction, paralyzed vocal folds, or neurological disorders such as Parkinson’s Disease, all conducted in collaboration with medical management. Services are available for professional voice users such as teachers, preachers and singers, as well as individuals who are transgender and interested in working on voice feminization or masculinization. Please click here for the child and teen voice case history form. Please click here for the adult voice case history form. Community-Based Hearing and Speech/Language Screenings – Hearing and Speech/Language Screenings may be scheduled for children (age 3 and up) and adults in various preschools, schools or other community settings. A team of graduate clinicians under the supervision of licensed and certified speech-language pathologists travel to the schools or centers to perform the screenings. It is imperative that the screening location be suitable to perform the testing. The team must have access to electrical outlets for the audiology equipment. The screening area should be as free as possible from ambient noise, such as noisy conversations, air conditioner and other equipment noises. Screenings must be scheduled in advance. Please contact us in August to schedule for the fall semester, and in January to schedule screenings for the spring semester. There is a per person charge for each screening test. This charge includes one hearing re-screening of anyone who does not respond to all tones during the initial screening. The re-screening date is approximately two weeks after the initial screening date. At the conclusion of the screening, the facility or school will receive a written summary of the results and recommendations, along with individual letters to distribute to parents reporting the screening results and recommendations for their child. The school/facility will also receive the invoice for the screening services at this same time. Save University of Houston Houston, Texas 77204 (713) 743-2255 A–Z Index Academic Calendar Campus Carry Policy Campus Map Career Opportunities Directory Emergency Information Get Help Human Resources Library Mental Health Resources Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Office of the President Parking Report Copyright Infringement Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness Open Records/Public Information Act Texas Veterans Portal Tuition & Fees UH System Virtual Tour ©2022 University of Houston. All rights reserved. Report a problem with this page Texas.gov Texas Homeland Security TRAIL Fraud Reporting Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Linking Notice Privacy Notice Open Records/Public Information Act Institutional Résumé Required Reports Electronic & Information Resources Accessibility Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness University Policies