Skip to main content Faculty Directory Giving Industry Partners Programs & Departments About Us Home Admissions▼ Undergraduate Admissions Graduate Admissions Undergraduate Spotlights Students▼ Undergraduate Students Graduate Students M.Eng. Students Research & Faculty▼ Faculty Centers and Facilities Strategic Areas of Research Undergraduate Research Diversity▼ DPE Programs & Events Current Students Prospective Students & Outreach Career Development Partnerships About DPE Alumni▼ Alumni Spotlights Bill Nye Solar Noon Clock Alumni Events Contact AAD Cornell Engineering Store Distinguished Alumni Award Enterprise Engineering Colloquium Students Support Volunteer Open the search panel Menu Search Close Fengqi You Roxanne E. and Michael J. Zak Professor in Energy Systems Engineering Smith School of Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering 318 Olin Hall 607/255-1162 fengqi.you@cornell.edu Back to Directory Biography Fengqi You is the Roxanne E. and Michael J. Zak Professor at Cornell University, and he is affiliated with the Graduate Fields of Chemical Engineering, Electrical and Computer Engineering, Operations Research and Information Engineering, Systems Engineering, Mechanical Engineering, Civil and Environmental Engineering, and Applied Mathematics. He also serves as Chair of Ph.D. Studies in Cornell Systems Engineering, Associate Director of Cornell Energy Systems Institute, and Associate Director of Cornell Institute for Digital Agriculture. He served on the faculty of Northwestern University and worked at Argonne National Laboratory before joining Cornell in 2016. His research focuses on fundamental theory and methods in systems engineering and artificial intelligence, as well as their applications to smart manufacturing, digital agriculture, quantum computing, energy systems, and sustainability. Fengqi has an h-index of 67 and published over 200 refereed articles in journals such as Science, Nature Sustainability, Nature Communications, and Science Advances. Some of his research results have been editorially highlighted in Science and Nature, featured on journal covers (e.g., Energy & Environmental Science), and covered by major media outlets (e.g., The New York Times, BBC, Reuters, The Wall Street Journal, Daily Mail, Newsweek, BusinessWeek, New Scientist, Popular Science, and National Geographic). He is an award-winning scholar and teacher, having received around 20 major national/international awards over the past six years from the American Institute of Chemical Engineers (AIChE), American Chemical Society (ACS), Royal Society of Chemistry (RSC), American Society for Engineering Education (ASEE), American Automatic Control Council (AACC), in addition to multiple best paper awards. Selected ones include NSF CAREER Award (2016), AIChE Environmental Division Early Career Award (2017), AIChE Research Excellence in Sustainable Engineering Award (2017), Computing and Systems Technology (CAST) Outstanding Young Researcher Award from AIChE (2018), Cornell Engineering Research Excellence Award (2018), ACS Sustainable Chemistry & Engineering Lectureship Award (2018), AIChE Excellence in Process Development Research Award (2019), AIChE Innovations in Green Process Engineering Award (2020), Mr. & Mrs. Richard F. Tucker Excellence in Teaching Award (2020), ASEE Curtis W. McGraw Research Award (2020), O. Hugo Schuck Award from AACC (2020), AIChE Sustainable Engineering Forum Education Award (2021), AIChE George Lappin Award (2022), and Stratis V. Sotirchos Lectureship Award by Foundation for Research & Technology – Hellas (FORTH) (2022). He is an elected Fellow of the Royal Society of Chemistry (FRSC) and Fellow of the American Institute of Chemical Engineers (AIChE Fellow). He serves as an editor of Computers & Chemical Engineering, an associate editor of AAAS journal Science Advances and IEEE Transactions on Control Systems Technology, a consulting editor of AIChE Journal, a guest editor of Energy and Renewable & Sustainable Energy Reviews, and an editorial board member of ACS Sustainable Chemistry & Engineering, Industrial & Engineering Chemistry Research, PRX Energy, etc. For more information about his research group: www.peese.org Research Interests We are an interdisciplinary systems engineering and artificial intelligence research group that focuses on the development of advanced computational models, optimization algorithms, statistical machine learning methods, and multi-scale systems analysis tools for smart manufacturing, digital agriculture, data analytics, energy systems, and sustainability. We seek to provide a balance between theory, computation and real-world applications through our synergistic research that includes both fundamentals and applications. At the fundamental level, we focus on the development of novel and advanced mathematical, computing, and artificial intelligence technologies. At the application level, we concentrate our efforts on process, energy, and environmental systems engineering. Particular research interests lie in (1) decarbonization, carbon-neutrality, and sustainable design of energy systems, including biofuels, photovoltaics, waste-to-energy, carbon capture and separation, shale gas, geothermal, and battery systems, (2) systems analysis, modeling and optimization for the food-energy-water-waste nexus and circular economy, (3) industrial ecology and life cycle sustainability assessment of nanotechnology and advanced materials, (4) material informatics and computer-aided molecular design, (5) supply chain optimization and smart logistics, smart manufacturing, planning, scheduling and control for complex engineering systems, (6) industrial big data analytics and machine learning for soft sensor and IoT, (7) grey-box digital twins and hybrid modeling based on mechanistic and data-driven approaches, and (8) quantum computing and quantum artificial intelligence. Energy Systems Sustainable Energy Systems Algorithms Artificial Intelligence Complex Systems, Network Science and Computation Energy and the Environment Statistics and Machine Learning Computational Science and Engineering Information Theory and Communications Scientific Computing Systems and Networking Infrastructure Systems Data Mining Data Science Sensors and Actuators Optical Physics and Quantum Information Science COVID-19 Related Research Robotics and Autonomy Optimization Teaching Interests Computational Optimization, Industrial Big Data Analytics and Machine Learning, Deep Learning, Quantum Computing and Artificial Intelligence, Life Cycle Assessment and Industrial Ecology, Energy Systems Engineering, and Process Design Selected Publications Shang, C., & You, F. (2021). A Posteriori Probabilistic Bounds of Convex Scenario Programs with Validation Tests. IEEE Transactions on Automatic Control, 66, 9, 4015-4028. Ajagekar, A., & You, F. (2021). Quantum Computing based Hybrid Deep Learning for Fault Diagnosis in Electrical Power Systems. Applied Energy, 303, 117628. Ning, C., & You, F. (2021). Online Learning Based Risk-Averse Stochastic MPC of Constrained Linear Uncertain Systems. Automatica, 125, 109402. Tian, X., Stranks, S.D., Fengqi You. 2020. "Life-cycle energy use and environmental implications of high-performance perovskite tandem solar cells." Science Advances, 6, eabb0055. Shang, C., Chen, W., Abraham Duncan Stroock, Fengqi You. 2020. "Robust Model Predictive Control of Irrigation Systems with Active Uncertainty Learning and Data Analytics." IEEE Transactions on Control Systems Technology, 28, 1493-1504. Zhao, S., Fengqi You. 2020. "Distributionally Robust Chance Constrained Programming with Generative Adversarial Networks (GANs)." AIChE Journal, 66, e16963. Ajagekar, A., Humble, T., Fengqi You. 2020. "Quantum Computing based Hybrid Solution Strategies for Large-scale Discrete-Continuous Optimization Problems." Computers & Chemical Engineering, 132, 106630. For a complete list of publications please visit: https://www.peese.org/publications/ Selected Awards and Honors Fellow of the American Institute of Chemical Engineers (AIChE Fellow), 2022 AIChE George Lappin Award, 2022 Stratis V. Sotirchos Lectureship Award, Foundation for Research & Technology – Hellas, 2022 AIChE Sustainable Engineering Forum Education Award, 2021 Fellow of the Royal Society of Chemistry (FRSC), 2021 Mr. & Mrs. Richard F. Tucker Excellence in Teaching Award, 2020 American Automatic Control Council (AACC) O. Hugo Schuck Award, 2020 Curtis W. McGraw Research Award, ASEE, 2020 AIChE Program Committee’s Young Investigator Award for Innovations in Green Process Engineering, 2020 AIChE Excellence in Process Development Research Award, 2019 Cornell Engineering Research Excellence Award, 2018 Computing and Systems Technology (CAST) Outstanding Young Researcher Award of AIChE, 2018 ACS Sustainable Chemistry & Engineering Lectureship Award 2018 AIChE Sustainable Engineering Research Excellence Award 2017 AIChE Environmental Division Early Career Award 2017 National Science Foundation CAREER Award 2016 Northwestern-Argonne Early Career Investigator Award for Energy Research 2013 Education B.Eng. Tsinghua University, 2005 Ph.D. Carnegie Mellon University, 2009 Websites You Group Website Google Scholar Profile In the News News Trend towards virtual and hybrid conferences may be an effective climate change mitigation strategy December 22, 2021 Read more about Trend towards virtual and hybrid conferences may be an effective climate change mitigation strategy News A New Design for Quantum Computer-Monitored Electrical Grids December 16, 2021 With support from the Quantum Computer User Program (QCUP) at the Oak Ridge Leadership Computing Facility (OLCF), researchers from Cornell University have developed a new quantum computer–based... Read more about A New Design for Quantum Computer-Monitored Electrical Grids News Retired electric vehicle batteries could be used to store renewable energy December 14, 2021 December 9, 2021 Researchers at Cornell University, partially funded by the U.S. National Science Foundation, recently published a study that outlines ways to sustainably repurpose used lithium-ion... Read more about Retired electric vehicle batteries could be used to store renewable energy More News Contact Us About Us News Events Spotlights Staff Directory Intranet Reserve Duffield Hall Main Address: Carpenter Hall 313 Campus Rd. Ithaca, New York 14853 Web Accessibility Assistance Connect with us Facebook Twitter Youtube Instagram LinkedIn Copyright © 2022 Cornell University All rights reserved.