Skip to main content Skip to main content Prospective Students Current Students Alumni More Faculty/Staff News Media Parents Skip to main content Apply Apply Give Give Follow Us Follow Us Twitter Follow Us Facebook Follow Us Instagram Follow Us LinkedIn Follow Us YouTube Follow Us Social Stream Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. Navigate Search Skip to main content Office of the Student Experience Orientation and Transition Programs Orientation and Transition Programs Mustang StartUp Stampede First 5 Leadership Programs Leadership Programs Leadership Development & Training Programs Leadership Experiences Leadership Framework Parent and Families Parent and Families Parent and Family Resources About Us ☰ Leadership Experiences Office of the Student Experience Leadership Programs Leadership Experiences Leadership Experiences Leadership Experiences in the Office of the Student Experience are opportunities for you to put your leadership skills to use! In these roles, you will continue to develop as a leader through real-world experiences. Caswell Leadership Fellows In this year-long academic program, you will refine your leadership skills while planning and implementing an impact project. An impact project is something you are passionate about within the campus or Dallas community that you need seed funding to get started. As a Caswell Fellow, you will receive project funding up to $2,500, as well as complete weekly office hours where you will work on your project and participate in leadership workshops. Learn more about our current and past Caswell Leadership Fellows. Check out our past fellows' projects. The Dr. Jim Caswell Endowment for Leadership Development and Training generously supports this program. Apply to be a Fellow! Caswell Leadership Coaches In the Caswell Leadership Coach Program, experienced student leaders engage in peer-to-peer leadership development to help all students become more effective within their SMU organizations. Coaches mentor their peers through individual meetings and leadership workshops as well as help their peers apply the 7 frames of the SMU Leadership Framework to their positions. The Dr. Jim Caswell Endowment for Leadership Development and Training generously supports this program. Meet our current coaches! Work with a Caswell Coach! Orientation Leader Orientation Leaders are selected each fall to help implement the two-step orientation process-AARO and Stampede. Orientation Leaders facilitate small groups during AARO and help prepare new Mustangs for life at SMU. The Orientation Leaders also plan and execute Stampede. Orientation Leaders complete the Orientation Leadership Institute (a spring, semester long leadership course) and live and work on campus from the beginning of June through the start of classes. Apply to be an Orientation Leader! Stampede Guides Over 200 Stampede Guides are selected each spring to help implement Stampede. Stampede Guides facilitate various aspects of Stampede, which encompasses everything from Move-In to Convocation. Stampede Guides participate in training programs to prepare them for small group leadership, educate them on SMU facts and incoming student questions, as well as provide them with an understanding of effective group facilitation. Apply to be a Stampede Guide! Connect.SMU Apply Visit School Cox School of Business Dedman College of Humanities and Sciences Dedman School of Law Lyle School of Engineering Meadows School of the Arts Moody School of Graduate and Advanced Studies Perkins School of Theology Simmons School of Education and Human Development Explore SMU Magazine Academic Calendar Events Calendar Guildhall Continuing and Professional Education Athletics Employment at SMU Campus Reporting a Bias Incident Report Sexual Misconduct Emergency Preparedness Student Life George W. Bush Presidential Center SMU Libraries Meadows Museum Tate Lecture Series Contact Us Maps and Directions Legal Disclosures © Southern Methodist University, PO Box 750100, Dallas, TX 75275 twitter facebook instagram linkedin youtube share