Skip to main content Go to site search Go to primary navigation Go to resources navigation Penn COVID-19 Response » Penn Home Toggle Site Navigation Toggle Site Search Academics More Academics Undergraduate Graduate Schools Global Initiatives Interdisciplinary Online Learning Off-campus Learning Libraries Admissions & Aid Athletics Research & Innovation More Research & Innovation Research Enterprise Research News Life at Penn More Life at Penn Arts & Culture Community Involvement More Community Involvement Penn & Philadelphia Diversity Groups & Organizations Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Safety & Security More Safety & Security Emergency Contacts Emergency Preparedness Spirituality & Religion About More About Introduction to Penn History Facts News, Media, & Communication Services Sustainability FAQ Penn’s Interim President, Wendell Pritchett Trustees & Administration Policies Toggle Site Search Resources Current Students Faculty & Staff Parents Alumni Visitors A-Z Directory Webmail Services Give to Penn Search Search Close Breadcrumb Home / Life at Penn / Arts & Culture Arts & Culture From the one of a kind museums on campus to accomplished student performances in music, dance, and theater, culture and the arts play a leading role in life at Penn. Performing and Visual Arts Venues Creative expression of all kinds flourishes at Penn. On campus, garner access to world-class arts and culture through a variety of programs and highly regarded centers of art and cultural excellence. Penn Museum The Penn Museum advances understanding of the world’s cultural heritage through its extensive research, collections, exhibitions, and educational programming. Arthur Ross Gallery Serving as a rich cultural resource for students, scholars, and the community, the Arthur Ross Gallery presents global art and artifacts through gallery exhibitions, scholarship, and educational outreach. Institute of Contemporary Art The Institute of Contemporary Art believes in the power of art and artists to inform and inspire. The ICA is free for all to engage and connect with the art of our time. Annenberg Center The Annenberg Center is a major cultural destination and crossroads in the performing arts, connecting regional audiences and the University through exposure to innovative human expression in theater, music, and dance. Penn Glee Club The Inspiration Arts House Dance Company Onda Latina and The Inspiration Collaboration Penn Six Platt Performing Arts House Platt Student Performing Arts House offers a supportive programmatic home for creative exploration and expression, advising and training students pursuing their extra-curricular passions for the performing arts and those preparing for a career in the arts. Explore Events Calendar Performing Arts Groups Performing Arts Council Academic Programs Anthropology Anthropology is the involved social science. It is both scientifically rooted and actively engaged and moves with the times. It makes a difference, and produces global awareness. Architecture Housed at Meyerson Hall, the Architecture department includes design studios, exhibition spaces, classrooms, state of the art laboratories for computing and fabrication, and two advanced research labs. Cinema Studies The Penn Cinema Studies major and minor are traditional humanities programs involving the critical study of film history, theory, and aesthetics, rather than film or video production. Comparative Literature The Program in Comparative Literature & Literary Theory at Penn is a dynamic and congenial intellectual community that brings members together through common interests. Computer Graphics and Game Technology The goal of Computer Graphics and Game Technology is to expose recent graduates, as well as students returning from industry, to state-of-the-art graphics and animation technologies, as well as interactive media design principles, product development methodologies, and engineering entrepreneurship. Creative Writing Creative Writing offers writing workshops every semester in fiction, poetry, and non-fiction, as well as screenwriting, playwriting, journalism, and writing for children. Digital Media Design The Digital Media Design program is an interdisciplinary major in the School of Engineering and Applied Science (SEAS) that combines courses offered in the SEAS Department of Computer and Information Science, the Annenberg School, and the Stuart Weitzman School of Design. Fine Arts Fine Arts is a comprehensive program, housed in the Weitzman School that offers both the undergraduate Fine Arts Major and the graduate Master of Fine Arts degree. Historic Preservation The Graduate Program in Historic Preservation provides an integrated approach for architects, landscape architects, planners, historians, archaeologists, conservators, managers, and other professionals to understand, sustain, and transform the existing environment. History of Art The Department of the History of Art is home to an undergraduate program with extensive academic offerings and opportunities, as well as a renowned graduate program which draws faculty from across the University, deeply enriching its scholarly breadth. Landscape Architecture The department of Landscape Architecture advances its legacy through its commitment to innovative design as informed by ecology, the history of ideas, techniques of construction, new media, and contemporary urbanism. Music The Department of Music offers outstanding courses and performing ensembles that are open to all Penn undergraduates, as well as graduate programs in composition, musicology, ethnomusicology, and music theory. Theatre Arts The Theatre Arts Program at Penn offers students the opportunity to study theater in the classroom and in production work under the guidance of faculty members who are experienced and trained actors, directors, scholars, and teachers. Visual Studies The Visual Studies major was created in 2003 to give students direct engagement with new technologies and philosophies of vision through a multidisciplinary course of study that connects the theory, practice, and culture of seeing. Cultural Institutions Annenberg Center for the Performing Arts The Annenberg Center is a major cultural destination and crossroads in the performing arts, connecting regional audiences and the University through exposure to innovative human expression in theater, music, and dance. Arthur Ross Gallery Serving as a rich cultural resource for students, scholars, and the community, the Arthur Ross Gallery presents global art and artifacts through gallery exhibitions, scholarship, and educational outreach. Institute of Contemporary Art The Institute of Contemporary Art believes in the power of art and artists to inform and inspire. The ICA is free for all to engage and connect with the art of our time. Kelly Writers House Founded in 1995 by a group of students, faculty, staff, and alumni, the Kelly Writers House is a large Gothic cottage on Locust Walk that serves as a center for writers of all kinds from Penn and the Philadelphia region. Morris Arboretum The Morris Arboretum is a historic public garden and educational institution. A short drive or train ride from campus, the Arboretum hosts a full slate of programs that integrate science, art and the humanities. Penn Libraries The University Library that Benjamin Franklin founded — one of the first in the country — is the only Penn institution to have been in continuous operation since 1750. Penn Museum of Archaeology and Anthropology The Penn Museum advances understanding of the world's cultural heritage through its extensive research, collections, exhibitions, and educational programming. The University of Pennsylvania Press Established in 1890, the Penn Press publishes groundbreaking and enduring scholarly work in a focused editorial program across the humanities and social sciences. Platt Student Performing Arts House A supportive home for creative exploration and expression, Platt Performing Arts House advises and trains students preparing for a career in the performing arts as well as those pursuing an extracurricular passion in the field. Sachs Program for Arts Innovation Providing grants and other forms of strategic support to artists, faculty, students, cultural centers, and other arts advocates at Penn, The Sachs Program’s vision is to value and embrace the arts as a creative catalyst, driving innovation, inspiration, and action. Wolf Humanities Center The Wolf Humanities Center promotes cultural conversation among artists, academics, and the general public that considers how the humanities are linked with many areas of inquiry in medicine, law, business, and the social sciences. WXPN 88.5 FM Radio Listener-supported public radio from the University of Pennsylvania. Upcoming Events See All Events Jun 1 Exhibits Journey into Warhol’s Unknown Works 5:30pm - 7:00pm Hybrid; 6th Floor, Van Pelt-Dietrich Library Center<br /> 3420 Walnut St. Jun 2 Music Skylyne Live 12:30pm - 1:30pm Through 6/30/2022 Drexel Square, 3001 Market St. Jun 2 Dance MOMIX 7:30pm - 9:30pm Through 6/4/2022 Annenberg Center for the Performing Arts, 3680 Walnut St. Jun 7 Theater Philly Rising Open Mic 8:00pm World Cafe Live, 3025 Walnut St. Jun 10 Music Mary Gauthier 8:00pm - 9:30pm The Music Hall at World Cafe Live, 3025 Walnut St. Jun 18 Exhibits Associated American Artists All Day Through 8/21/2022 Arthur Ross Gallery, 220 S 34th St. See All Events Arts & Culture News The Sachs Program celebrates fifth year of supporting arts innovation at Penn The Sachs Program for Arts Innovation announced its 2022 cycle of grantees, with new funding for alumni and community partnership projects. 5/10/2022 Design on display First in-person showcase for the new undergraduate design major featured original projects by 15 seniors expressing their interpretation of the theme ‘in search of.’ 5/9/2022 Senior Eleanor Shemtov is designing a career Arts & Sciences senior Eleanor Shemtov founded a new student magazine and created a campus community focused on technology, art, and design. 5/5/2022 Keepers of the cultural memory In wartime, saving human lives is a top priority. But secondary considerations often include preserving the cultural heritage also under siege. Penn experts offer their thoughts as the situation in Ukraine continues to unfold. 3/29/2022 Stay up to date with Penn Today Find more arts and culture news, and so much more, on Penn Today’s website. You can also get Penn Today delivered straight to your inbox. Visit Penn Today Explore Life at Penn Arts & Culture Community Involvement Diversity Groups & Organizations Health & Wellness Housing & Dining Penn & Philadelphia Safety & Security Spirituality & Religion Philadelphia, PA 19104 Telephone: (215) 898-5000 Contact Us Maps Parking Navigate Alumni Athletics Diversity Health Care Libraries Online Learning Penn Global Penn's Heritage As America’s first university, Penn has a history that dates back to 1740 and shares many ties with the colonial city of Philadelphia and the birth of our nation. Our History Disclaimer Emergency Services Nondiscrimination Privacy Policy Report Accessibility Issues and Get Help Report Copyright Infringement Back To Top