By continuing to use this site, you agree to the use of cookies in accordance with our privacy policy. Dismiss Stay Safe The official source of public health information for Syracuse University. Skip to Content Open menu About Admissions Academics Life Athletics More Search the University Open search Popular searches Close menu Home About Toggle dropdown Leadership Vision & Mission Consumer Information Facts & Figures Plan Your Visit Campus Map History News Partnerships Work at Syracuse Social Media Bookstore Brand Help & Contacts Admissions Toggle dropdown Undergraduate Graduate Online Part-Time Cost & Aid Request Information Visit & Tour Apply Academics Toggle dropdown Schools & Colleges Undergraduate Majors & Minors Graduate Degrees Online Programs Syracuse University Global Study Abroad Opportunities & Support Calendars Departments Research Centers & Institutes Libraries, Collections & Galleries Academic Administration Life Toggle dropdown Accessibility & Diversity Campus Highlights Events Calendar Services & Support Meals & Dining Housing Groups & Activities Recreation & Facilities For Students For Veterans & Military For Faculty & Staff For Parents & Families A-Z Index Sitemap Login Athletics Men’s Sports Toggle dropdown Basketball Cross Country Football Lacrosse Rowing Soccer Track and Field Women’s Sports Toggle dropdown Basketball Cross Country Field Hockey Ice Hockey Lacrosse Rowing Soccer Softball Tennis Track and Field Volleyball Athletics Dept. Toggle dropdown Facilities Staff Directory Academic Honors Community Service Spirit Program Varsity Club Sports Medicine Championships Fan Zone Toggle dropdown Dome Schedule Seating Information Orange All Access Otto’s Kids Club Game Photos Promotions Orange Club Schedules News Alumni About Toggle dropdown Notable Alumni Alumni Association Awards News Events and Clubs Toggle dropdown Orange Central Northeast Midwest South West World/Affinity Regions Toggle dropdown Atlanta Boston Chicago Los Angeles Middle East New York San Francisco Washington, DC Services Toggle dropdown Career Network Generation Orange Directory Profile Class Notes Giving Contact Contact Visit Apply Coronavirus Updates Forever Orange Home Stay Safe Disability Access and Inclusion Resources More from this Section Support Resources for Students in Quarantine or Isolation Get Tested Stay Safe Pledge Frequently Asked Questions Faculty and Staff Public Health Guidance Resources Updates Disability Access and Inclusion Resources Syracuse University Resources Faculty and Staff Accommodations The ADA and Face Mask Policies: Disability Issues Brief Developed by the Southeast ADA Center and the Burton Blatt Institute (BBI) at Syracuse University. Office of Interdisciplinary Programs and Outreach (disability access) Additional Resources Resources about COVID-19 and Disability for Prospective and Current Students, Faculty, and Staff in Higher Education The National Center for College Students with Disabilities Clearinghouse is funded through grant from the Office of Postsecondary Education, U.S. Department of Education and based at the Association on Higher Education And Disability (AHEAD). New York State Office of Mental Health – COVID-19 Resources Resources for learning how to manage anxiety in difficult times, guidance for healthcare providers and publicly available resources. The National Deaf Center on Postsecondary Outcomes (NDC) Customized resources and strategies to support deaf student success on college campuses. Share a concern Email us Access and Inclusion Working Committee The Access and Inclusion Working Committee (AIWC) has been appointed by Steven J. Bennett, Senior Vice President for Academic Operations, to respond to disability-related access and inclusion concerns and challenges arising in the midst of the COVID-19 pandemic as Syracuse University prepares for and enters the Fall 2020 semester. The Committee is chaired by Paula Possenti-Perez, Director of the Center for Disability Resources , and William N. Myhill, Interim Director and ADA/503/504, and comprised of disability-serving staff and University leaders empowered to bring about decisive actions and solutions. The AIWC will provide transparent guidance and decisions in response to inquiries and concerns from students, staff and faculty across the University (as well as to alumni and visitors) regarding COVID-19, disability-related access and inclusion issues. The Committee will also proactively provide the administration with thoughtful guidance as it continues to navigate the residential reopening of the University in these complex times. Working Committee Membership Working Committee Meetings and Supplemental Resources Fall 2020 Open Recommendations Popular Toggle dropdown Academic Calendar Campus Map Careers Libraries Majors and Minors Visit and Tour A-Z Toggle dropdown Academic Departments Schools and Colleges Sitemap Search Contact Toggle dropdown Admissions Financial Aid Emergency Contacts Human Resources Make a Gift Login Toggle dropdown MySlice Blackboard SUMail Syracuse University 900 South Crouse Ave. Syracuse, NY 13244 Phone: +1.315.443.1870 Follow S.U. on Instagram Like S.U. on Facebook Follow S.U. on Twitter Follow S.U. on LinkedIn Follow S.U. on Tiktok Subscribe to S.U. on YouTube © Syracuse University. Knowledge crowns those who seek her. Accessibility Accreditation Emergencies Privacy