COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW Details: Public Administration, Master's Master'sPublic Administration All Programs Fairmount College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Public Administration Wichita State’s Master of Public Administration (MPA) program combines theory and practice in public management, public finance and public policy—preparing students for positions of leadership in public and nonprofit organizations. The program offers a completely online option. Graduates serve in diverse careers as city managers and department heads, program managers, finance directors, budget and management analysts and agency planners. Learn how Public Administration is the right fit for you. Request Info Start Your Application Applied learning at Wichita State At Wichita State, applied learning is everything. In fact, every degree we offer has a guaranteed applied learning or research experience built right into it equipping you with the relevant skills and experience to make you workforce ready before graduation. Learn about our innovative approach Admission to the program For admission into the MPA program, applicants must: Be admitted into the WSU Grad School Submit a letter of application outlining MPA-related career plans Submit a resume including work and volunteer experience Provide two letters of reference from individuals with direct knowledge of a student’s work experience or academic performance For additional admission details, click on the link below. Admission requirements Curriculum The Master of Public Administration degree consists of 39 graduate credit hours taken over at least five semesters of study—and may be taken completely online. Core courses consist of 24 credit hours. In addition to the core, students develop a plan of study for 15 credit hours of electives which must be approved by an advisor. Depending on your interests and career goals, your electives may be used to complete graduate certificates in: City and County Management Economic Development Nonprofit Management Public Finance View the curriculum Careers A Master of Public Administration degree from Wichita State will help you take the next step in your career—and open doors to professional opportunities throughout the public and nonprofit sectors. Learn more about careers in this field Similar Programs Business Administration (Master's) Criminal Justice (Master's) City & County Management (Graduate Certificate) Economic Development (Graduate Certificate) Nonprofit Management (Graduate Certificate) Public Finance (Graduate Certificate) 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©