Skip to Main Content Brown University Division of Biology and Medicine Center on the Biology of Aging Secondary Navigation Navigation Give Now Search Menu Site Navigation Home About Mission Meet the Leaders Academic Units Contact Education Undergraduate Postdoctoral Graduate MBoA Research Brown Core Facilities Faculty Events Upcoming Events Past Aging Seminars Past PAARF Meetings Past Annual Colloquia Diversity News Outreach MBoA Retreat Conferences Day of Biology Funding Search Division of Biology and Medicine Center on the Biology of Aging Center on the Biology of Aging We are the Brown University Center on the Biology of Aging. Our center was created to unify existing knowledge and accelerate new research focusing on aging. Center on the Biology of Aging We are the Brown University Center on the Biology of Aging. Our center was created to unify existing knowledge and accelerate new research focusing on aging. John Adams at age 90: Few people in his times survived to such an age. Many more do today, but only a few in good health. People have never lived so long. In the 20th century, life expectancy in some developed countries rose by more than 35 years. At the same time, age-related disorders have become the leading causes of death. But how well do we understand aging, and what this means for our society. Even more important than life span, however, is the concept of health span—survival into old age in the absence of major disabilities. It is well known that the incidence and morbidity of most diseases increase with age. However, as our life expectancy rises, can we discover ways to live our lives free of frailty and debilitating chronic conditions? A group of researchers at Brown came together to launch the Center on the Biology of Aging, whose goal is to study human health span. These efforts, representing an emerging academic discipline, have the potential to transform human health and life. Open Biology of Aging Faculty Position Assistant Professor (tenure track) Open tenure-track faculty position with a start date of July 1, 2022 now available. Qualifications include a Ph.D. and/or M.D. degree with relevant postdoctoral training. The applicant will be expected to pursue an independent and externally-funded research program. The applicant should demonstrate a commitment to undergraduate and graduate education, and be an active participant in pre-doctoral training in the Division of Biology and Medicine, and in our NIA-supported T32 training program Apply Here More Information Want to stay up-to-date on all of the BOA events? Subscribe to the Biology of Aging Listserv (BOA, on page 4) to receive emails announcing all of the upcoming seminars and events. Biology of Aging Listserv The Center on the Biology of Aging Announces the Availability of Funds for Students and Postdocs to Attend Practical Workshops and Courses: Program here for more information. Funding Availability Quick Links MBoA Retreat Visit Page Open details for MBoA Retreat Outreach The Center is always looking to improve and grow with new funding opportunity, collaboration, and cutting-edge research. Visit Page Open details for Outreach Graduate MBoA Our objective is to train the next generation of scientists engaged in interdisciplinary research to discover and implement therapies that alleviate the suffering caused by age-associated degenerative processes. Visit Page Open details for Graduate MBoA Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Division of Biology and Medicine Program in Biology Affiliated Hospitals Footer Navigation Events Maps and Directions Contact Us Accessibility The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University Brown University For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home About Mission Meet the Leaders Academic Units Contact Education Undergraduate Postdoctoral Graduate MBoA Research Brown Core Facilities Faculty Events Upcoming Events Past Aging Seminars Past PAARF Meetings Past Annual Colloquia Diversity News Outreach MBoA Retreat Conferences Day of Biology Funding Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation Give Now This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Center on the Biology of Aging Open details for Center on the Biology of Aging Bookmark this Page