Skip to main content Clemson University Degrees Home Degree Programs MENU Forest Resource Management (B.S.) LEARN MORE ABOUT A major in forest resource management begins with the basics — trees. With each class you take, you form a broad understanding of the science behind forest management and how it promotes and affects wildlife, soil, water, recreation and communities. Enthusiasm, hands-on problem solving and relevant research just scratch the surface of what you'll encounter when you step into our classrooms and labs. While many of our students see themselves working in the forest, or doing field research after graduation, many others seek employment in a more suit-and-tie office setting, perhaps negotiating export prices with international markets. No matter which you prefer, the forestry profession is about conserving our natural resources and improving our world through careful, scientifically sound management practices. FAST FACTS Within walking distance of campus are 17,500 acres of Experimental Forest dedicated to education, research and recreation. Rising juniors spend eight weeks in the summer doing fieldwork and learning how to cruise timber. Our classes use GIS and GPS to perform state-of-the-art mapping. About 65 percent of our students are involved in the Forestry Club. Forests cover two-thirds of South Carolina's total land. The average "family forest" in South Carolina is 66 acres. The Society of American Foresters accredits our program. WHAT YOU'LL STUDY Clemson's 17,500-acre Experimental Forest is full of plants, trees, animals, organisms and so many other incredible habitats. Opportunities for research and hands-on experience in the forest truly set our program apart. Plus, you'll be learning invaluable job and research skills while enjoying one of the world's most incredible gifts of nature. Throughout your classes, you'll learn about the broad scope of forests, from the smallest soil microorganism that impacts the health of a forest to the federal policies negotiated in Washington, D.C. Everyone starts with basic science and math courses in preparation for upper-level course work such as ecology, forest economics, harvesting, wildlife management and even urban tree care. Land Surveying Emphasis Information Clemson's forest resource management degree offers an emphasis in land surveying. Students electing to complete this concentration are also eligible for surveying licensure through the S.C. Board of Professional Engineers and Surveyors. Curriculum Forest Resource Management, B.S. Forest Resource Management: Land Surveying Emphasis, B.S. Popular Minors Business Administration Wildlife and Fisheries Biology Similar Majors Environmental and Natural Resources (B.S.) Wildlife and Fisheries Biology (B.S.) EXPERIENCES BEYOND THE CLASSROOM Our program is practice-based, built on the belief that the best learning comes from firsthand observation and experience. The faculty are dedicated to advancing the science and management of forests and natural resources, as well as discovering knowledge that can be applied to sustainable environmental protection and enhancement. Internship In training our students to be the best in their field, we strongly encourage them to do at least one internship. Having a chance to put classroom learning to work in the field sets you apart from your peers. Compete Every year, the student-run Clemson Forestry Club travels to the Southern Forestry Conclave to compete against students from the other 15 Southern forestry schools in activities from archery to timber-volume estimation. Camp The summer after your sophomore year, you'll spend eight weeks in "Summer Camp." Spending your days in the forest and in the classroom, you'll learn the hands-on technical skills needed to enter the workforce. CONNECT WITH OTHER STUDENTS The American Fisheries Society The Wildlife Society Forestry Club AFTER GRADUATION Your college decision isn't really about the next four years. We get it. It's about what doors are opened by your degree and whether those opportunities are what you had envisioned for yourself. Here's a snapshot of what life after graduation looks like for some of our most recent students. WHERE OUR RECENT GRADUATES HAVE GONE KEY 41-100% 21-40% 11-20% 0-10% RECENT EMPLOYERS Project Forester South Carolina Forestry Commission Sustainability Forester Enviva Natural Resource Management Specialist Whitetail Environmental Inventory Manager Atlanta Hardwood Corporation Presale Forester U.S. Forest Service RECENT POSTGRADUATE STUDIES M.S. Forest Operations and Business Virginia Tech M.S. Forestry University of Tennessee Master of Agricultural Education Clemson University MAEE Agricultural and Environmental Education University of Georgia COMMON CAREER AREAS Fieldwork Inventory Harvest Planning Reforestation Firefighting Forest Health Wildlife Management Recreational Design and Planning Forest Products Industry Forest Engineering Production Wood Science and Utilization Research Sales Marketing Management Public Relations Education and Communication Teaching Research Public Relations Environmental Policy and Law Management Resource Recreation Range and Wildland Management Forest Management Used with permission from the University of Tennessee. FIND OUT MORE Have more questions or want more information? Fill out the form below, which goes directly to the following department contact. If you’d also like to receive general University information from Clemson’s admissions office, please follow the link to the right and sign up to join our mailing list. Madison Cutts Coordinator of Student Recruitment mcutts@clemson.edu Department Website College Website Loading... Department Website College Website Home Admissions Campus Life Academics Visit Outreach Research About Apply To Clemson Undergraduate Graduate Professional Online Education Employment Opportunities Policy/Terms of Use Text Version Web Accessibility Ethics/Safety Line Privacy Policy Site Information Copyright © 2015 Clemson University Clemson, South Carolina 29634 864-656-3311 Contact Clemson Stories for the Clemson Family Clemson University on Facebook Clemson University on Twitter Clemson University on Google+ Clemson University on LinkedIn Clemson University on YouTube Clemson University on Flickr Clemson University on Instagram Search Clemson University degrees Clemson Degree Programs Search Alphabetical List Schedule a Visit Campus Life Admissions Costs & Financial Aid Similar Majors To Forest Resource Management (B.S.) Environmental and Natural Resources (B.S.) Wildlife and Fisheries Biology (B.S.)