Skip to site alert. Skip to content Columbia School of Nursing Students Alumni Faculty Contact Us Search Make a Gift About Us About Us Message From the Dean Leadership Faculty Our Culture News Events Facts and Figures Accreditation Make a Gift Contact Us Our Culture Diversity and Cultural Affairs Civility Statement Social Justice and Health Equity and Anti-Racism Commitment Sustainability Our History Jonas Partnership Join Our Team Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Learn about our commitment to social justice and health equality and anti-racism. View Our Progress Academics Academics A Columbia Nursing Education Admissions at a Glance Academic Programs Courses Financial Aid Continuing Nursing Education Helene Fuld Health Trust Simulation Center Academic Programs Doctor of Nursing Practice Doctor of Nursing Practice in Nurse Anesthesia Doctor of Philosophy Masters Direct Entry Program For Non-Nurses Masters in Advanced Clinical Management and Leadership Online Prerequisites for Entry to Nursing Transgender Non-Binary (Trans NB) Health Care for Advance Practice Nurses and PAs Palliative Care Throughout the Lifespan for Advanced Practice Registered Nurses (APRNs) Admissions at a Glance Learn more about Admissions at Columbia Nursing, including important dates and deadlines, and how to apply to all of our programs. Learn More About Admissions Research Research Research Faculty and Postdoctoral Fellows Research Areas of Focus Research Centers and Programs Training Programs Research Resources Research Centers and Programs Center for Health Policy Center for Improving Palliative Care for Vulnerable Adults with MCC Precision in Symptom Self-Management Center Center for Healthcare Delivery Research and Innovations Center for Research on People of Color Center for Sexual and Gender Minority Health Research Linking to Improve Nursing Knowledge Research Areas of Focus Explore the research areas of focus conducted by our faculty, postdocs, and students. View Our Focus Areas Patient Care Global Health Global Health Global Opportunities for Students Global Research International Visitors WHO Collaborating Center Contact Global Opportunities for Students Global opportunities for clinical practicum and research may be available for MDE and doctoral students at Columbia Nursing. Get More Information Coronavirus Updates Topics Research Publications, Awards, and Other News Columbia Nursing Magazine Coronavirus Updates Columbia Nursing Profiles Diversity and Cultural Affairs Academic Programs Messages from Dean Frazier View All Topics Search All News Keywords News Top Stories Coronavirus Updates and Resources for Students A directory of resources and updates for students regarding coronavirus. Nurse Heroes Story Submission Form Submit your story to help us highlight the Columbia Nursing heroes on the frontlines of the coronavirus outbreak. Topic Art in the Time of Crisis If you have been inspired to create or used art to cope during the COVID-19 pandemic and the anti-racism movement we encourage you to submit your creation to the Art in the Time of Crisis collection. Topic Diversity and Cultural Affairs Preparing for Spring 2022 & Recent University Updates Recent university announcements with regards to start of the Spring term for students, shared on December 23, 2021. Latest News Columbia Nursing Processes the Pandemic and Reckons with Racism May 13, 2021 A letter from Dean Frazier about the Spring 2021 issue of Columbia Nursing magazine. Topic Columbia Nursing Magazine Art in the Time of Crisis By Andrea Kott May 13, 2021 Columbia Nursing Community uses art to address the pandemic and racial injustice. Topic Columbia Nursing Magazine Columbia, NAACP Williamsbridge Join Forces to Spread Facts on COVID Vaccine March 15, 2021 Kellie Bryant, DNP, and Robert Fullilove, EdD, discussed myths and facts about the shot at a virtual event organized by the Williamsbridge Branch of the NAACP on February 28, 2021. Topic Simulation Center Pandemic Parallels March 15, 2021 A century apart, women leaders took similar actions in response to disease outbreaks. Dean Frazier's Message on Remembrance Day March 12, 2021 Remembrance Day gives us the opportunity to pause for a moment to reflect on all that has happened in the last year and, especially, to honor the many lives that have been lost to this pandemic. Dean Frazier's Message on Anti-Asian Bias March 10, 2021 Columbia Nursing condemns the violence that has been perpetrated on members of the Asian community. We want our community members who are of Asian descent to know that we stand with you. Topic Messages from Dean Frazier Nursing Spring Graduation Ceremonies Update February 26, 2021 An update on Columbia Nursing's 2021 commencement ceremony plans. Topic Messages from Dean Frazier Spring Break Travel February 12, 2021 2021 Spring break travel guidelines for students. Spring 2021 Return Information for Students December 23, 2020 Spring term reminders on the University’s ongoing work to create a safe campus for our School of Nursing community. Topic The Many Faces of Bravery By Andrea Kott November 9, 2020 Columbia Nurses on the COVID-19 front lines. Topic Columbia Nursing Magazine Pages 1 2 3 next last Columbia University Irving Medical Center NewYork-Presbyterian ColumbiaDoctors About Us Academics Research Patient Care Global Health Contact Us Students Alumni Intranet Careers Columbia University School of Nursing 560 West 168th Street New York, NY 10032 United States Follow Us Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube LinkedIn Back to top