COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW Details: Teaching - Transition to Teaching Track, Master's Master'sTeaching - Transition to Teaching Track All Programs College of Applied Studies School of Education Whether you’re a recent college graduate or a working professional, Wichita State’s Master of Arts in Teaching (MAT) program will help you gain the knowledge and practical skills vital to becoming a well-prepared, licensed teacher. Learn how Teaching - Transition to Teaching Track is the right fit for you. Request Info Applied learning at Wichita State At Wichita State, applied learning is everything. In fact, every degree we offer has a guaranteed applied learning or research experience built right into it equipping you with the relevant skills and experience to make you workforce ready before graduation. Learn about our innovative approach Admission to the program To be eligible for T2T, students must have: Completed at least a BA/BS degree (in the content field seeking licensure) from an accredited institution A minimum GPA of 2.750 in last 60 hours Received passing scores on the Praxis Subject Assessment exam Secured a teaching contract in an accredited Kansas school district Completed summer prerequisite education coursework For additional admission details, click on the link below. Admission requirements Curriculum The Transition to Teaching (T2T) program is a two-year alternative licensure program that combines graduate coursework and full-time, paid teaching in an accredited school. The program is geared toward working professionals looking for a career change and more recent graduates wanting to teach. Teaching candidates fulfill teacher licensure requirements in the first 29 credit hours (two years). Those who wish to earn the MAT degree must complete an additional seven credit hours of research in the third year. View the curriculum Careers A graduate degree from Wichita State’s College of Applied Studies will give you the knowledge, skills and confidence to make a positive impact in the classroom—and on your career. Learn more about careers in this field 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©