Skip to content Columbia University Irving Medical Center Find People Events Faculty and Staff Resources Give Now Search About Us About Us Facts and Figures Explore CUIMC Events Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion at CUIMC Community Development and Alumni Explore CUIMC Leadership and Administration A-Z Listing Affiliated Hospitals Campus Map and Directions Campus Resources Contact CUIMC Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion At CUIMC, we are committed to continuous improvement in providing culturally inclusive medical education and clinical care. Learn About Our Commitment Education Education Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons Mailman School of Public Health School of Nursing College of Dental Medicine VP&S Columbia Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons is dedicated to developing the next generation of leaders in medicine Learn About Our Academic Programs Research Research The Louisa Gross Horwitz Prize Columbia Technology Ventures Research Administration Columbia Clinical Innovation Lab Patient Care Patient Care ColumbiaDoctors Children's Health Columbia Primary Care Herbert Irving Comprehensive Cancer Center ColumbiaDoctors Dentistry Digital Health Services at Columbia Find a Doctor Search for a provider by specialty, expertise, location and insurance. Schedule an appointment online. Find a Doctor News News For the Media Share Your News CUIMC Update CUIMC Celebrates Columbia Medicine Read the latest news stories about CUIMC faculty, research, and events Explore Our News COVID-19 Resources for CUIMC COVID-19 Resources for CUIMC COVID-19 Information for Patients COVID-19 Campus Safety for Employees and Students COVID-19 Vaccine Information For CUIMC Employees and Students COVID-19 Information and Resources for Clinical Staff COVID-19 Vaccine Information Learn about COVID-19 vaccine availability and requirements for employees and students at CUIMC Get the Latest Information Mental Health Topics Campus News Research Medical School Public Health Cancer Mental Health Infectious Diseases Neurology Neuroscience Education Heart Health Pediatrics View All Topics Search All News Keywords News Subtopics: Depression Psychiatry Top Stories Mental Health Care in AAPI Communities: Overcoming Language, Stigma, and Other Barriers Language differences, stigma, and the "model minority" myth prevent many people in Asian American and Pacific Islander communities from getting mental health care. Topic Campus News Making the Most of Telehealth for Talk Therapy Most mental health problems can be addressed via telehealth, says Columbia psychiatrist Deborah Cabaniss, and there are things patients can do to make the most of their sessions. Topic Campus News CUIMC Initiative Receives Federal Community Project Funding The COVID-19 Northern Manhattan Community Mental Wellness Corps, a new initiative to address mental health disparities in Northern Manhattan and parts of the Bronx, has received federal funding. Topic Campus News New Study Identifies Gaps in Emergency Care for Youth in Crisis New survey reveals that pediatric emergency departments need more guidance to help children and adolescents with mental health crises. Topic Pediatrics Latest News Only 1 in 4 Receive Medication for Opioid Use Disorder March 23, 2022 Despite strong evidence that medication is the most effective treatment for opioid use disorder, only one in four people in need receive it, a Columbia study reports. Topic Public Health How Sleep Deprivation Impacts Mental Health March 21, 2022 Sleep problems can contribute to the onset and worsening of problems such as depression, anxiety, and even suicidal ideation. Dr. Lorna Breen Health Care Provider Protection Act Signed Into Law March 18, 2022 Named for a Columbia physician, the new law provides federal grants for mental health programs to support health care workers and prevent suicide. Topic Campus News The Kids are Not All Right March 4, 2022 Children were spared the worst of COVID-19 early on, but they are now suffering psychological consequences from the pandemic’s social upheaval. Here’s what parents and educators can do. Topic Pediatrics The Pandemic’s Toll on Health Care Workers March 4, 2022 Columbia health care workers tell us about the pandemic’s toll on their lives and what CUIMC is doing to alleviate the burden. Emotional support, self-care, and instilling hope are key. Topic Infectious Diseases How Attachment Styles Influence Romantic Relationships February 14, 2022 A Columbia psychiatrist’s groundbreaking book returns to the best-seller list, 11 years after publication, as attachment theory gains popularity on social media. A Nuanced Portrait of Addiction January 27, 2022 A Columbia psychiatrist’s new book—"The Urge: Our History of Addiction"—interweaves sociocultural narratives with the author's own story of recovery. Are Your New Year’s Resolutions Faltering? January 26, 2022 It’s that time of year again, when we start to realize the idealistic images we had of ourselves happily sweating in the gym aren’t manifesting themselves quite as easily as we thought they would. How to Fight Seasonal Depression Amid the Pandemic December 23, 2021 A Columbia expert explains how to recognize the signs of seasonal affective disorder and why it’s important to treat it as the COVID outbreak continues. How to Cope with Holiday Stress By Scott Butterworth December 15, 2021 Despite the emotional challenges, the holidays offer a chance to put work aside, catch our breath, and rejoice with loved ones, says Columbia psychologist Dr. Zachary Blumkin. Topic Infectious Diseases Pages 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 … next last Columbia University Irving Medical Center NewYork-Presbyterian About Us Careers News Education Patient Care Research Resources at CUIMC Columbia University Irving Medical Center 630 West 168th Street New York, NY 10032 United States Follow Us Facebook Twitter YouTube LinkedIn Instagram Back to top