Skip navigation Information For: Current Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Brown University Brown Grad School About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life A to Z Index People Directory Graduate School About the Graduate School Academic Events & Honors Commencement Essential Steps to Prepare for Commencement Graduate School Skip to Navigation Essential Steps to Prepare for Commencement Graduate students in terminal degrees are eligible to have degrees conferred, and to receive their diploma, at three different times during the academic year: October, February and May. See the Registrar’s website for details and deadlines. October and February graduates are welcome to participate along with May graduates in the Commencement ceremonies held in May. The Graduate School will reach out to October and February graduates in January 2021 to the email address recorded on your Application to Graduate, with instructions for registering to attend and participate. Required Steps for 2022 graduates (Subject to Change) All eligible graduates should complete the following steps, including October 2021 and February 2022 graduates. Additional steps may be added closer to Commencement weekend 1. Fill out the Application to Graduate on self-service Banner. October deadline: September 10, 2021 February deadline: January 14, 2022 May deadline: May 2, 2022 The University can only graduate and generate diplomas for graduate students who complete this application. The application enables you to list your name as you would like it to appear on your diploma and be listed in the Commencement program. The default formula is first name, middle name, last name. Once logged into Banner, select the Student Records menu and select the Application to Graduate menu item. 2. Complete the Award Form by May 2. Identify awards and honors you received while a graduate student at Brown for possible inclusion in the Commencement program. Please do so regardless of whether or not you plan to participate in Commencement. 3. Register to attend the doctoral or master's ceremony via Marching Order (registration opened on 4/4, please check the email you indicated on your Application to Graduate for Commencement communications) 4. Purchase academic regalia from the Bookstore. After April 14, you can purchase regalia from the Bookstore starting May 23, 2022. 5. Sign up for photos with GradImages. 6. Doctoral candidates and master's students with thesis should read the dissertation and thesis guidelines. Deadline to submit for the May degree conferral is May 2, 2022. 7. Graduating Veterans & Commissioning Ceremony: If you are a veteran student or are commissioning after graduating in May 2022, please complete this form to inform the Office of Military-Affiliated Students if you will be attending the Veteran Recognition and Commissioning Ceremony. Required Steps for 2020 graduates Additional steps may be added closer to Commencement weekend. 1. Register to attend the doctoral or master's ceremony (registration will open in late March/early April). 2. Reserve academic regalia from the Bookstore. After April 14, you can pick up regalia directly at check-in (even if you missed the reservation deadline). 3. Sign up for photos with GradImages. Special Accommodations Individuals with disabilities requesting accommodations should contact the office of Student Accessibility Services directly prior to Commencement weekend. Home About the Graduate School People Mission & Facts Diversity and Inclusion News & Communications Academic Events & Honors Orientation Commencement Graduating Students: Service & Email Changes Awards Events & Series Initiatives in Doctoral Education and Support Graduate Student Resources Maps & Directions Healthy Brown FAQs for Graduate Students Academics & Research Living & Resources Financing & Support Admitted Students & Orientation Application Information For Graduate Students For Faculty and Staff Brown University Brown University Graduate School Box 1867 Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-2600 Maps & Directions / Contact Us / Accessibility © 2022 Brown University Resources Graduate School Handbook Academic Code CareerLAB Brown University Writing Center Sarah Doyle Center for Women and Gender Sheridan Center for Teaching & Learning Top Destinations Admission Inquiry Form Commencement Five-Year Ph.D. Support Open Graduate Education External Funding Application Process International Applicants