Skip to main content Skip to main content Prospective Students Current Students Alumni More Faculty/Staff News Media Parents Skip to main content Apply Apply Give Give Follow Us Follow Us Twitter Follow Us Facebook Follow Us Instagram Follow Us LinkedIn Follow Us YouTube Follow Us Social Stream Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. Navigate Search Skip to main content Campus Recreation Hours-Schedule Member Services Member Services Online Member Portal Online Member Portal Instructions Membership Rates Fees Room Reservations and Events Parking Programs Programs Aquatics Fitness Intramural Sports Outdoor Adventures Sport Clubs Youth Spirit Spirit Band Rotunda Spirit Squads About ☰ Campus Recreation Member Services Room Reservations and Events ROOM RESERVATIONS Reservation Reservation is the dedicated and committed space for an SMU chartered or probationary status Student Organization or SMU Academic/Business department. To be considered, Reservations for Dedman Center should be received 3 business days (Monday-Friday) in advance of intended date. Dedman Center does NOT accept reservations for an individual. See Drop-In Use below. All attendees and participants are SMU students or SMU faculty/staff. Total attendance/participation is less than 50 people. Reoccurring Reservations are limited to: 2 hour duration, 1 per day, and 3 days per week. Space use must be relevant to space design and intended use. No food distributed or consumed. Classroom or Meeting Space is desired. Activities involving instructor-led activities, classes, and workshops MUST be approved by SMU Campus Recreation. Non-SMU attendees must be approved by SMU Campus Recreation or See Special Events below. See additional instructions, limitations, and permissions outlined below. Special Event Special Events are classified differently and will require adherence to Campus Recreation and University Polices, Procedures and Protocols regarding Events on Campus. Fees will apply. For Special Events to be considered, an Event Request must be received 4 weeks prior to the desired date. Upon approval, a Reservation Request will be required. To begin the Special Event procedures or request additional information, contact David Chambers, Associate Director of Operations, at 214-768-4823 or dchamber@smu.edu. Dependent upon space availability. Space reservation duration greater than 2 hours and attendance/participation exceeds 50 people. Involves Minors (individuals under the age of 18 years) Non-SMU attendance or participation greater than 3 approved guests or sponsored/hosted by an external to SMU community non-profit or for-profit organization, business, club, etc. Requires a fee, donation, payment to participate or attend including Philanthropy event. Event is outside of Dedman Center’s published hours of operation. Food will be served or consumed at the Event. Requires special set-up and breakdown such as tables, chairs, music, food service, floor coverings, etc. Drop-In Use Limited Dedman Center spaces are available for individual SMU Students or Dedman Center Members use on a first come, first serve basis on day and time of use. Only available during Dedman Center Operational Hours. Does NOT conflict with existing reservation or event. Limited to 1 hour. Does NOT exceed room capacity limits. Must present SMU ID or Dedman Center Member Card to the front desk at time of desired use. Available Spaces for Drop-In Use ONLY: Studio 2 Studio 3 Mat Room Reservations and Events will be subject to the Event Guidance Level limitations and restrictions determined by the current campus Event Guidance Level and Campus Recreation (See Chart Below). PLEASE NOTE: Given the extenuating circumstances of the pandemic, the situation is extremely fluid, and requirements are subject to change, including cancellation of events and reservations. What Rules, Procedures or Guidelines to Reserve a Space? All spaces must be returned to the original condition and trashed removed before the end of the reservation or event. The reservation requester and organization or department will be held responsible for damage, repairs, and/or or additional charges associated with a return to original condition as determined by SMU Campus Recreation. Failure to follow Event/Reservation Expectations or abide by the Rules and Guidelines will result in loss of future reservations, additional charges, and possible submission to Student Conduct and Community Standards. SMU Campus Recreation reserves the right to cancel Reservations and Events at any time. How to Request a RESERVATION NOTE: To submit a Reservation requires SMU Log In Credentials. A Request is only a request. The request does not approve or confirm a reservation. Requesters will receive a reservation confirmation email upon approval. Without this approval, the space is not reserved and use of the space will be denied upon arrival to Dedman Center. Log into SMU STABLE Select Indoor Reservation Request Enter the Meeting/Event Title to include the SMU student organization or Academic/Business department name (EX: Campus Recreation Yoga Class). Enter a brief but detailed Description to include type of attendees (SMU and/or Non-SMU), activities, expected attendance, food served, etc. Include special considerations such as vendors, DJ, music systems, etc. Enter the Reservation Type (Activity) Answer the additional questions. Unless otherwise directed, no Org number is necessary. Select Continue Enter the Start Date and Time to include set up. Enter the End Date and Time to include breakdown and clean up. For Property, enter Dedman Center for Lifetime Sports, Intramural Field or Crum La Crosse and Multi-Sport Field. Select Show More Search Options Enter number of people expected to attend, not just participate. Select Search The associated space in the Dedman Center will appear at the bottom. Select the desired space. Select Continue Select Change General Information to make edits to description, etc. Select Change Time and Location to edit dates/times or space. To create a reoccurring reservation (same times and space), select Repeat This Reservation. If complete, select OK, Close Wizard. Upon approval, the same procedures will be followed to create a Reservation for the Special Event. Apply Visit School Cox School of Business Dedman College of Humanities and Sciences Dedman School of Law Lyle School of Engineering Meadows School of the Arts Moody School of Graduate and Advanced Studies Perkins School of Theology Simmons School of Education and Human Development Explore SMU Magazine Academic Calendar Events Calendar Guildhall Continuing and Professional Education Athletics Employment at SMU Campus Reporting a Bias Incident Report Sexual Misconduct Emergency Preparedness Student Life George W. Bush Presidential Center SMU Libraries Meadows Museum Tate Lecture Series Contact Us Maps and Directions Legal Disclosures © Southern Methodist University, PO Box 750100, Dallas, TX 75275 twitter facebook instagram linkedin youtube share