Columbia University in the City of New York Admissions Requirements Degree Requirements Faculty Courses Students & Alumni Current Students Recent and Current Dissertations Recent Prizes and Awards Careers after the Ph.D. News & Announcements Admissions Requirements Courses Degree Requirements Faculty Home (Post Slider – FULL WIDTH) News and Announcements Students Careers after the Ph.D. Dissertations Recent Prizes and Awards News and Announcements Select Page Welcome Margarida Assis, B.A., Univ. of Lisbon, M.A., Univ. of Barcelona; Lauren Stockmon Brown, B.A., New York Univ.; and Kay Kemp, B.A., Columbia Univ. All best for the coming year! Congratulations to Anna Waller on being awarded a DAAD (German Academic Exchange Service) travel grant to conduct archival studies in the dance archives in Köln, Leipzig, and Berlin in summer 2022. Theatre and Performance Colloquium: Mondays 6:15 pm, via Zoom. Open to faculty and students in the Ph.D. Program in Theatre and Performance Ph.D. Program in Theatre and Performance The Ph.D. Program in Theatre and Performance at Columbia University encourages students to explore the reciprocal relationships between performance and scholarship, criticism and creation, theory and practice in one of the world’s great centers of theatrical performance, New York City. The program is designed at once to provide the opportunity for students to familiarize themselves with the prevailing traditions of Western and non-Western drama, theatre, and performance scholarship, as well as to identify a specific trajectory of individual research. Overseen by an interdepartmental faculty committee–drawn from the Department of English and Comparative Literature, the Theatre Program of the School of the Arts, the Institute for Comparative Literature and Society, various language departments, Philosophy, Classics, and the Barnard College Department of Theatre–the program encourages students to pursue interdisciplinary research across the wide spectrum of theatre and performance studies. The relatively small size of the program ensures a close working relationship with supervising faculty; doctoral students in Theatre and Performance often work with doctoral students in other humanities fields, as well as with Theatre Program M.F.A. students in directing, dramaturgy, and playwriting. Doctoral students are admitted with a six-year package of funding, which combines both fellowship and teaching support. In the past decade, Ph.D. students from the program have been appointed to tenure-track positions in a range of fields (English, Theatre, Performance Studies) at Stanford, Princeton, Boston University, Indiana University, King’s College London, The University of Texas at Austin, Skidmore College, the Ohio State University, the University of Chicago, Carnegie Mellon University, and elsewhere. Admissions for Fall 2023 The Ph.D. in Theatre and Performance program is excited to reopen admissions for Fall 2023, and we welcome any inquiries about the shape of the program as we move forward. Please note that we will not be requiring the GRE for Fall 2023 admissions, but will consider all materials–including the GRE–that are supplied (see Admissions page for further details). Degree Programs: Full-Time: M.A., M.Phil., Ph.D. Co-Chair: W. B. Worthen, Ph.D. Alice Brady Pels Professor in the Arts 506 Milbank Hall Barnard College 212-854-2757 wworthen@barnard.edu Co-Chair: Julie Stone Peters, Ph.D. H. Gordon Garbedian Professor of English and Comparative Literature 602 Philosophy Hall 212-854-3215 jsp2@columbia.edu Facebook Twitter Google RSS Designed by Elegant Themes | Powered by WordPress Program Coordinators: ©2019 Columbia University | Accessibility | Non-Discrimination Tania Pabon Acosta Coordinator Department of English and Comparative Literature Address: 602 Philosophy Hall Email: tp2643@columbia.edu Phone: 212.854.3215 Lauren Britt-Elmore Director of Academic Administration Theatre Arts Program, School of the Arts Address: 601 Dodge Hall Email: lbe4@columbia.edu Phone: 212.854.2969