SMU Cox Display Navigation and Site Search SMU Cox School of Business SMU Cox Utility Navigation Students Companies Alumni Apply Contact Us smu.edu Display Navigation Display Search Search SMU SMU Cox Main Navigation At SMU Cox Display At SMU Cox Sub Menu An exceptional school in the heart of a vibrant, global, business-friendly city. Collins Center Cox News Cox Events Graduate Outcomes CoxToday Magazine Academic Departments Career Growth Global Programs Degrees & Programs Display At SMU Cox Sub Menu Rigorous programs within a truly customized academic experience. Master of Science MS in Accounting MS in Business Analytics MS in Finance MS in Management MS Health Promotion Management MS in Sport Management MBA Full-Time Two-Year MBA Full-Time One-Year MBA MBA Direct Professional MBA Online MBA Executive MBA Joint Degrees JD/MBA MA / MBA MS Engineering / MBA Undergraduate Bachelor of Business Administration Non-Degree Executive Education Summer Business Institute Diversity & Inclusion Display At SMU Cox Sub Menu Shaping Leaders for a Changing World. Diversity at Cox Latino Leadership Initiative I Am Latino in America Subiendo Academy at SMU Cox School Dean’s Message Executive Education Display At SMU Cox Sub Menu Meet your career challenges head-on by mining the expertise of the nation's top business leaders. Programs for Individuals Custom Solutions Latino Leadership Initiative HR Roundtable Graduate Certificates Collins Center Learning Culture Display At SMU Cox Sub Menu An innovative learning culture influences the way the world does business. Centers and Institutes Academic Departments Research Business Library NextGen Cox Curriculum People & Community Display At SMU Cox Sub Menu A community where professors know students by name and help them create powerful networks. Students Alumni Faculty Companies Cox Executive Board Cox100 Press Releases Display Search Utility Navigation Students Companies Alumni Apply Contact Us smu.edu Professional MBA Professional MBA Overview Curriculum Experiential Learning Career Development Admissions Overview Curriculum Experiential Learning Career Development Admissions Breakthroughs Happen Here Personalized, rigorous, connected: The two-year, part-time Professional MBA at SMU Cox is your route to new career avenues or accelerating the path you’re on. The Cox PMBA program for working professionals lets you focus your curriculum and schedule your classes with a flexibility that few PMBA programs offer. You’re in charge, while we provide the support you need to explore and excel. At Cox, you'll find small classes led by inspiring professors with open doors, powerful leadership training, and career management services that alumni call life-changing. Tack on the connections you'll build to Dallas business leaders and the value of our tight-knit global alumni network, and the Cox PMBA will propel you long after your graduate. Start Your Application Request More Information Meet 1:1 with PMBA Admissions Admissions Events A Perfect Fit for Real Life You’re juggling a lot. We work with you and your schedule to advance your career while you stay in the workforce. At SMU Cox you get a full-time experience in a two-year part-time program. 2 flexible start terms, offered each Fall and Spring. 11 areas of specialization. 170 electives. Create your career trajectory on your terms. I was impressed with all aspects of my MBA experience. Professors are experts in their field but also very approachable. I enjoyed my peers and can genuinely say that I made life-long friends. The SMU Cox network is unparalleled and the alumni community is very strong. JB Askew PMBA 2017 The Cox Advantage Renowned faculty who blend industry insights with academic research NextGen Curriculum Join a Cohort of Diverse & Driven Peers Engage with 100+ Companies Connect with 40,000+ global alumni to accelerate your career Global Classroom After Cox: Alumni Success Stories Lauren Harner, PMBA 2016 Manager, Commercial Analytics and Renewables Analysis Two years into her job as mechanical engineer at Halliburton, Lauren Harner decided it was time to enhance her business skills. She wanted to leverage her experience as a product development lead at Halliburton to become a strategic consultant in the oil and gas industry. Lauren immediately started applying what she was learning at SMU Cox , and leveraged that knowledge to take make a career move. Working with her Cox career advisor, Lauren negotiated the opportunity to pilot a leadership development program with Holly Frontier Corporation. Dane Karras, PMBA 2016 Vice President of Engineering at Accelerate Resources Dane Karras had come back from a role in Alaska as a drilling engineer when, after six years of on-site work, he decided to focus on the business side of the oil and gas industry. He enrolled in the PMBA program at SMU Cox and steered his academic career while he worked as a senior engineer in his company's business development arm. Less than a year after graduating, Dane made the move to Vice President of Engineering at Accelerate Resources. Bruce Rideaux, PMBA 2012 Director at PFM Financial Advisors Grit and heart — they're at the core of the SMU Cox experience. For Bruce Rideaux, the grit was what he discovered in himself when he was diagnosed with early stage cancer as he was preparing for finals while managing a full-time career as an investment banker. The heart was what he experienced at Cox. It was the support system that buoyed him as he underwent treatment, aced the finals and graduated with his class. Next Steps Have a question? Join us for an upcoming event to learn more about our MBA programs. ADMISSIONS EVENTS Contact Us SMU Cox Footer Utility Nav Give Contact Us Apply © Cox School of Business Southern Methodist University PO Box 750333 Dallas, Texas 75275-0333 214-768-2000 SMU Cox Legal Home SMU Cox on Social Media Facebook Instagram Twitter