Skip to content Clemson University Clemson University Search Menu Close Sorry, your browser does not support inline SVG. Sorry, your browser does not support inline SVG. Apply Giving News Resources for Students Faculty & Staff Parents Alumni Clemson University Academics Forward Arrow Back Arrow Back Academics Home Employment Opportunities Apply for Admission Colleges College of Agriculture, Forestry and Life Sciences College of Architecture, Arts and Humanities College of Behavioral, Social and Health Sciences Wilbur O. and Ann Powers College of Business College of Education College of Engineering, Computing and Applied Sciences College of Science Graduate School Academic Resources Academic Calendar Registrar Division of Undergraduate Studies Center for Career and Professional Development Academic Success Center GRAD 360° Libraries Outside the Classroom PEER/WISE Call Me MISTER® Creative Inquiry and Undergraduate Research Cooperative Education University Professional Internship and Co-op Program (UPIC) Study Abroad Admissions Forward Arrow Back Arrow Back Admissions Home Schedule a Tour Apply for Admission Applying to Clemson First-Year Undergraduate Transfer Undergraduate International Undergraduate Graduate Students Academic Opportunities Majors Graduate Programs Online Graduate Programs Scholar Programs Paths to Graduate School Honors College Experiential Learning Financial Aid Tuition and Fee Calculator Undergraduate Financial Aid Graduate Fellowships and Awards Residency Requirements Campus Life Forward Arrow Back Arrow Back Campus Life Home Club Sports Brooks Center for the Performing Arts Join Your Clemson Family Finding Your Community Living-Learning Communities Student Veterans Multicultural Programs FIRST Army ROTC Air Force ROTC Services On Campus Housing & Dining Campus Recreation Parking and Transportation Student Health Services TigerOne Card Services Clemson Athletics Get Involved Clubs and Organizations Fraternity and Sorority Life Orientation Ambassadors Tiger Media Graduate Student Government Undergraduate Student Government Research Forward Arrow Back Arrow Back Research Home Clemson University Research Foundation (CURF) Division of Research Research Opportunities Student Research at Clemson Creative Inquiry Research Facilities Postdoctoral Affairs Serving South Carolina Through Research School of Health Research Public Service and Agriculture Clemson Experimental Forest Clemson Extension Clemson Research and Education Centers Public Service and Agriculture Research Farm Services Innovation and Economic Development Corporate Partnerships and Strategic Initiatives Clemson University International Center for Automotive Research (CU-ICAR) Clemson University Restoration Institute (CURI) Clemson University Biomedical Engineering Innovation Campus (CUBEInC) Center for Human Genetics Innovation Campus and Technology Park About Clemson Forward Arrow Back Arrow Back About Clemson Home Clemson News Clemson Athletics For Tigers Applying to Clemson Working at Clemson Traditions Military Heritage Things To Do in Clemson Visit Clemson Campus Resources Employment Opportunities Home and Garden Information Center Brand Guidelines CCIT Academic Calendar Training ClemsonForward Campus Leadership Board of Trustees President Academic Affairs and Provost Inclusion and Equity Student Affairs Faculty Senate Staff Senate Search Resources for Current Students Parents Faculty & Staff Alumni Communication Degrees Forward Arrow Degrees Communication, B.A. Sports Communication, B.A. Communication, M.A. Back Arrow Back Students Forward Arrow Students Student Awards Student Opportunities Back Arrow Back Research Centers Forward Arrow Centers Social Media Listening Center Communication Center Back Arrow Back Alumni & Friends Apply Giving News Sikes Hall Icon Main Menu Forward Arrow Icon Back Arrow Icon Back Clemson University Academics Academics Home Employment Opportunities Apply for Admission Colleges College of Agriculture, Forestry and Life Sciences College of Architecture, Arts and Humanities College of Behavioral, Social and Health Sciences Wilbur O. and Ann Powers College of Business College of Education College of Engineering, Computing and Applied Sciences College of Science Graduate School Academic Resources Academic Calendar Registrar Division of Undergraduate Studies Center for Career and Professional Development Academic Success Center GRAD 360° Libraries Outside the Classroom PEER/WISE Call Me MISTER® Creative Inquiry and Undergraduate Research Cooperative Education University Professional Internship and Co-op Program (UPIC) Study Abroad Admissions Admissions Home Schedule a Tour Apply for Admission Applying to Clemson First-Year Undergraduate Transfer Undergraduate International Undergraduate Graduate Students Academic Opportunities Majors Graduate Programs Online Graduate Programs Scholar Programs Paths to Graduate School Honors College Experiential Learning Financial Aid Tuition and Fee Calculator Undergraduate Financial Aid Graduate Fellowships and Awards Residency Requirements Campus Life Campus Life Home Club Sports Brooks Center for the Performing Arts Join Your Clemson Family Finding Your Community Living-Learning Communities Student Veterans Multicultural Programs FIRST Army ROTC Air Force ROTC Services On Campus Housing & Dining Campus Recreation Parking and Transportation Student Health Services TigerOne Card Services Clemson Athletics Get Involved Clubs and Organizations Fraternity and Sorority Life Orientation Ambassadors Tiger Media Graduate Student Government Undergraduate Student Government Research Research Home Clemson University Research Foundation (CURF) Division of Research Research Opportunities Student Research at Clemson Creative Inquiry Research Facilities Postdoctoral Affairs Serving South Carolina Through Research School of Health Research Public Service and Agriculture Clemson Experimental Forest Clemson Extension Clemson Research and Education Centers Public Service and Agriculture Research Farm Services Innovation and Economic Development Corporate Partnerships and Strategic Initiatives Clemson University International Center for Automotive Research (CU-ICAR) Clemson University Restoration Institute (CURI) Clemson University Biomedical Engineering Innovation Campus (CUBEInC) Center for Human Genetics Innovation Campus and Technology Park About Clemson About Clemson Home Clemson News Clemson Athletics For Tigers Applying to Clemson Working at Clemson Traditions Military Heritage Things To Do in Clemson Visit Clemson Campus Resources Employment Opportunities Home and Garden Information Center Brand Guidelines CCIT Academic Calendar Training ClemsonForward Campus Leadership Board of Trustees President Academic Affairs and Provost Inclusion and Equity Student Affairs Faculty Senate Staff Senate Search close Communication Degrees show submenu for Degrees Communication, B.A. Sports Communication, B.A. Communication, M.A. Students show submenu for Students Student Awards Student Opportunities Research Centers show submenu for Centers Social Media Listening Center Communication Center Alumni & Friends Clemson Home College of Behavioral, Social and Health Sciences Academics Communication Degrees Current: Communication, M.A. Master of Arts in Communication The Master of Arts in Communication (MAC) program cultivates an appreciation for the breadth and depth of communication inquiry. In line with the mission of the Department of Communication, our program provides students with the tools to understand, evaluate, and interpret communication scholarship and its practical applications, particularly in the areas of health communication, strategic communication, sport communication, and media and technology. Our program’s research focus prepares students for advanced graduate study or can be applied to practice in a variety of communication professions. Graduates of our program have entered doctoral study, college-level teaching, and a variety of professional careers with advanced communication expertise. The MAC program is a central part of our department, and students have opportunities to enhance their graduate experience with opportunities that include the Social Media Listening Center, Communication Research Hub, and Study Abroad. Social Media Listening Center Communication Research Hub Study Abroad MAC Handbook Clemson Graduate School Request More Information Area of Study Students collaborate with faculty to prepare a focused plan of study in one or more research emphasis areas in the Department of Communication: Health communication Strategic communication Sport communication Media and technology Apply Deadlines: February 1 with rolling admission through March 1 for following fall / September 30 for following spring (part-time only) All elements of application are considered equally and in combination. Invited students typically have the following: Bachelor’s degree from an accredited college or university GPA of 3.0-4.0 (no minimum required) GRE scores (no minimum required) We will accept TOEFL, IELTS, or PTE Academic test scores. Scores must indicate very strong abilities in listening, writing and speaking. Non-native speakers can be given a conditional acceptance. TOEFL scores are not required if you have a degree from an English-speaking institution. Strong writing skills demonstrated through a writing sample(s), personal statement, and curriculum vitae/resume. Specific, detailed reasons for pursuing the MACTS degree program at Clemson, as well as evidence of successfully working independently on projects, all as described in your in curriculum vitae/resume and statement of purpose. Apply to MACTS today Degree Requirements Earning a Master of Arts in Communication requires a minimum of 30 total credit hours. In addition to coursework, students choose to pursue a thesis or non-thesis option to complete the degree. Required Courses COMM 8200: Foundations in Communication (3 credit hours) COMM 8100: Quantitative Research Methods and/or COMM 8110: Qualitative Research Methods (3-6 credit hours) COMM 8900: Colloquium (1 credit hour, repeated each semester) COMM 8910: Master’s Thesis Research (6 credit hours) or COMM 8800: Directed Readings in Communication (3 credit hours) Elective Courses COMM graduate courses Optional: Courses in related disciplines Optional: Internship or Independent Study Thesis Options Students choose from two thesis options: scholarly or project. A scholarly thesis is a traditional, original research project that results in a formal thesis document. Such a project represents a significant contribution to communication scholarship in the area of interest. A project thesis is a creative undertaking such as a documentary, software application, performance, public event, archive or digital project. The project must be theoretically informed and include a significant written component. Browse recent theses on the Clemson Libraries website by clicking here. Non-Thesis Option Students selecting the non-thesis option complete a comprehensive exam, which assesses knowledge in their area(s) of interest. Course List COMM 8000: Communication Pedagogy (1 Credit Hour): Development of teaching skills within the field of communication, focusing on the teaching of general education courses. Explores the facilitation of a positive classroom environment, addressing student needs and evaluation of student work. Discussion of teaching philosophy and pedagogy. COMM 8100: Quantitative Research Methods in Communication (3 Credit Hours): Explores methods of social scientific research methodologies. Methods range from experimental designs to survey and cross-sectional designs. Final projects will include the employment of one or more methodologies to create a communication-based research proposal. COMM 8110: Qualitative Research Methods in Communication (3 Credit Hours): Exploration of select issues and methods for qualitative research. Students discuss and practice data gathering and analysis techniques associated with ethnographic, interview and textual approaches. Particular attention is given to research technologies. COMM 8200: Foundations in Communication (3 Credit Hours): Introduces MA students to graduate study in communication and provides students with necessary skills to comprehend, evaluate, and build upon communication scholarship. COMM 8210: Seminar in Strategic Communication (3 Credit Hours, repeatable): Explores topics from areas of interest related to strategic communication. Topics vary from semester to semester. May be repeated for credit, but only if different topics are covered. COMM 8220: Seminar in Sport Communication (3 Credit Hours, repeatable): Explores topics from areas of interest related to sport communication. Topics vary from semester to semester. May be repeated for credit, but only if different topics are covered COMM 8230: Seminar in Media and Technology (3 Credit Hours, repeatable): Explores topics from areas of interest related to media and technology. Topics vary from semester to semester. May be repeated for credit, but only if different topics are covered. COMM 8240: Seminar in Health Communication (3 Credit Hours, repeatable): Explores topics from areas of interest related to health communication. Topics vary from semester to semester. May be repeated for credit, but only if different topics are covered. COMM 8720: Communication Education (3 Credit Hours): Explores communication education and related fields of study, such as instructional communication and critical communication pedagogy. COMM 8740: Special Topics in Communication Studies (3 Credit Hours): Varying topics within the field of communication. May be repeated for a maximum of six credits, but only if different topics are covered. COMM 8800: Directed Readings in Communication (1-3 Credit Hours): Directed reading and research in the student’s area of interest in preparation for the comprehensive exam. May be repeated for a maximum of three credits. Preq: Successful completion of core program requirements and approval by the department director of graduate studies COMM 8900: Communication Graduate Internship (3 Credit Hours): Preplanned, preapproved, faculty-supervised internship provides communication graduate students with field experience in areas related to their curriculum. Provides applied component to advanced study of communication theory and professional development for industry and research careers. May be repeated for a maximum of six credits. Preq: Consent of faculty advisor. COMM 8910: Master’s Thesis Research (1-9 Credit Hours): Students complete research toward production of a master’s thesis. A maximum of six hours may be applied toward a degree, though additional hours may be taken for credit. May be repeated for a maximum of nine credits. Preq: Successful completion of core program requirements and all additional courses as approved by the department director of graduate studies. COMM 8990: Independent Study (1-3 Credit Hours): Tutorial work for graduate students with special interests or projects in communication outside the scope of existing courses. Assistantship Opportunities Assistantships provide a full tuition waiver and a monthly stipend for the academic year (nine months). All applicants for full-time admission are considered for an assistantship unless they indicate otherwise. Assistantships are awarded on the availability of funds each year. Teaching assistantships generally involve our basic communication courses. Graduate teaching assistants develop communication and leadership skills as they help students in the Communication Lab with composing and delivering speeches. They also gain valuable teaching experience by leading their own discussion sections (labs) with the support of our departmental faculty. A one-week training program is delivered before the start of classes in the fall semester, as well as weekly support meetings. Research assistantships can involve working one-on-one with faculty members, projects or teams. Graduate research assistants gain hands-on experience with the research process through data collection, analysis, presenting and/or writing the final research report. Collaborative projects with faculty typically result in co-authored conference presentations and publications in academic journals. Assistantships are evaluated and renewed after one year based on performance and academic standing. Learn More Contact For more information about the Master of Arts in Communication, please contact. Amy Durrance Administrative Specialist adurran@clemson.edu Links MAC Handbook Clemson Graduate School website Request More Information MAC Facts Newsletter MACTS Facts 2020-2021 MACTS Facts 2019-2020 Department of Communication Copyright © Clemson University Department of Communication | 408 Strode Tower 864-656-1567 | Email Us | Website Updates intro-arrow Engage With Us Through Facebook Twitter Clemson University Facebook Instagram Twitter Linkedin Youtube Tiktok Policy/Terms of Use Web Accessibility Ethics/Safety Hotline Privacy Policy Copyright © 2022 Clemson University • Clemson, South Carolina 29634 Clemson University Facebook Instagram Twitter Linkedin Youtube Tiktok Resources A-Z Index Campus Map CU Safety Directory Webcams Apply to Clemson