Skip to main content Temple University Explore Temple’s Schools and Colleges Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Support Temple Temple University Search Site Search Full Menu Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees President History & Traditions Temple Health News & Media Offices Public Information Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Development Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Libraries Media Arts Certificate (Undergraduate) You are here Home Academics Degrees and Programs Media Arts Certificate (Undergraduate) Apply Request More Info Media Arts Certificate (Undergraduate) Admissions Undergraduate Certificate in Media Arts Gain a deeper understanding of all aspects of digital media with the Undergraduate Certificate in Media Arts in Temple’s College of Theater, Film and Media Arts. You’ll be immersed in the production and history of media arts that paved the success of film studios such as Pixar and Paramount, or production houses like The Walt Disney Co. and Warner Bros. You’ll study the intricacies of production design, screenwriting and reading scripts, and video editing, and you’ll form an understanding of the cultural impact of film and media. Courses are taught by award-winning faculty members who have worked on Emmy- and Oscar-nominated films, among others. This four-course, 14-credit undergraduate certificate is available to all students enrolled at Temple who are interested in the study and production of audio, digital media, film and video, as well as emerging technologies. The required courses can be counted toward the Film and Media Arts major. Classes & Curriculum Students in the Undergraduate Certificate in Media Arts program complete four courses, which are Media Arts I, Media Arts II, Media and Culture, and Survey of New Media. Learn more about courses for the Certificate in Media Arts, and explore all film and media arts undergraduate certificates available to students. Related Graduate Degrees Documentary Arts and Visual Research PhD Film and Media Arts MFA MediaXarts: Cinema for New Technologies and Environments MA Internships & Opportunities Internships are crucial to gaining entry to the film, television and media industries. Acquire hands-on production experience that will deepen your technical abilities and make you a more attractive candidate to potential employers. You can earn up to six credits while interning locally or in Los Angeles as part of the Los Angeles Study Away Program. The program in Los Angeles provides direct learning insights and professional work experiences in the media and entertainment industries. Film and Media Arts students may also find opportunities through Greater Philadelphia Film Office, International House, Pennsylvania Film Office, Philadelphia Film Society, Philadelphia Independent Film & Video Association, and Scribe Video Center. Tuition & Fees The tuition for this Certificate Program is based on school or college of your major, program degree level (undergraduate or graduate), course load (full- or part-time), in-state or out-of-state residency, and more. Learn more about our tuition and fees. Our Academic Advisors The School of Theater, Film and Media Arts academic advisors will guide you through choosing electives and registering for courses. Contact Dariq Cobb is an academic advisor for the Undergraduate Certificate in Media Arts. Phone: 215-204-2227 Email: dariq.cobb@temple.edu Leanna Arnold is the senior academic advisor for the Center for the Performing and Cinematic Arts. Phone: 215-204-2227 Email: leanna.arnold@temple.edu Program Contact Roderick Coover is director of the Media Arts Certificate (Undergraduate). Phone: 215-204-6346 Email: rcoover@temple.edu Accreditation The Film and Media Arts program is associated with the University Film and Video Association, an international organization of university and industry professionals working in the field of media production. CA-MDAR-CERT Additional Program Information Visit School Site View Program Details Go back to AcademicsMore in Media Arts Certificate (Undergraduate) Admissions Apply Request More Info Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Calendar Policies Social Media TUportal TUmail Accessibility Careers at Temple Safety & Emergency Information Ethics & Compliance Privacy Statement Professional Licensure Disclosures Follow Temple University Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community. Apply Request More Info