Skip to main content University of Texas at Austin Home UT iSchool Menu University of Texas at Austin Home The University of Texas at Austin UT iSchool Make a Gift Search Search Search Search About Expand Vision & Core Values History & Tradition Diversity & Inclusion News & Events Jobs at the iSchool Contact Us Programs Expand Admissions Class Schedules Course Offerings Undergraduate Informatics Program Master of Science in Information Studies School Librarian Certificate Program Master of Science in Information Security & Privacy Dual Degree Programs PhD in Information Studies Certificate of Advanced Study Postdoctoral Fellowships People Expand Faculty, Staff, & Students Alumni Student Organizations Advisory Council Information Commons International Students iSchool Committees CARE Counselor Research Expand Research Areas Grants & Awards Labs Information & Culture Visiting Scholars Careers Expand Students Alumni Employers HireUTexas Giving Expand Endowments Donate Online Student Giving Home Programs : Admissions Admissions alt="Student applying to the iSchool on a laptop" Admissions Ready to become an iSchooler? Here are the next steps toward beginning your studies at the School of Information. Thank you for considering The University of Texas at Austin School of Information's degree and certificate programs! Undergraduate Admissions Procedures The Office of Admissions handles admissions for freshman and transfer students to The University of Texas at Austin. See our Undergraduate Admissions page for application deadlines and resources. If you are a current UT student wanting to transfer from another school/college into the Informatics program or add Informatics as a second major, please visit our Internal Transfer Admissions page to learn how to apply. Undergraduate Admissions Deadlines Freshman: The application deadline for first time in college students is December 1st. External Transfers: The application deadline is March 1st for fall admission or October 1st for spring admission. Internal Transfers: The deadline for current UT students to apply is May 1st. Graduate Admissions Procedures Admission to the School of Information's graduate programs requires applicants to complete the following general application procedures for the UT Graduate School. For full details, refer to the Graduate School’s Admissions page. Please allow plenty of time to process your application. Graduate Admissions Deadlines Doctoral Students: The application deadline for the PhD program is December 1st. View PhD admissions requirements here Master's Students: The application deadline for the MSIS program is February 1st. View MSIS admissions requirements here View MS ISP deadlines and admissions procedures here Note: Spring admission is not available for any graduate programs. GRE Scores: For the Fall 2022 admissions cycle, the School of Information will not require GRE scores as part of the application for the MSIS, dual dregree, and PhD programs. Submission of scores is optional for applicants who would like to provide the Admissions Committee additional information about their potential for success in the program. Graduate and International Admissions Center (GIAC) application for admission and admission fee: The Texas Common Application is available at ApplyTexas.org. One official transcript from each college or university attended: Submit electronic copies of your official transcripts according to the GIAC website. Please avoid mailing paper copies to ensure a quicker processing of your application. An official report of Graduate Record Examination (GRE) scores: Scores must be sent from the official testing agency to GIAC, using the codes for The University of Texas at Austin (GRE Code: 6882). (Optional for Fall 2022 applicants.) Statement of Purpose: Once your application is submitted, electronically upload a statement of purpose for your desired program of study. (See MSIS Requirements or PhD Requirements.) Three letters of recommendation: You will be asked to submit the names and contact information of three recommenders at the time of your online application. After submitting the application, each contact will receive an email with directions for submitting a recommendation letter online. Resume/CV TOEFL or IELTS scores (international students only): International students must submit official test results from either the TOEFL or IELTS exams, according to the guidelines provided by GIAC. Certificate Program Admissions (Non-Degree Seeking Students) Applicants to the School Librarian Certificate program (who already have a master's degree) or the Certificate of Advanced Study program should apply to the UT Graduate School as non-degree seeking students. School Librarian Certificate Requirements To apply to the SLC certificate program, all applicants must: Hold a baccalaureate degree from an accredited institution of higher education that at the time was accredited or otherwise approved by an accrediting organization recognized by the Texas Higher Education Coordinating Board. Hold a teaching certificate from the Texas Education Agency or other State’s teacher certificate agency. Have and provide evidence of two years full-time classroom teaching experience in a public or accredited private school. Applicant’s service record from Texas Education Agency or other State’s teacher certificate agency is required. Admissions Procedures If you already have a master's degree, follow general procedures for admission to the Master of Science in Information Studies (MSIS) program. Select “Non-Degree Seeker” in the degree status field on the GIAC application. If you do NOT have a masters degree, follow general procedures for admission to the MSIS program and complete all required courses for the MSIS degree. Learn more about the School Librarian Certificate Program Certificate of Advanced Study Requirements Complete the CAS application. (PDF | Word) Students must design their program of study in conjunction with, and receive approval from, a special area advisor. Minimum of (12) semester hours. More semester hours may be necessary depending on the student's academic background and professional goals. More than half of the course hours will be taken in the School of Information and no more than six (6) semester hours of upper-division undergraduate courses can be taken. An Individual Studies course (INF 381) or an INF 388 exit or experience course must be included. Submit CAS Completion Form in the last two weeks of the student's final semester. (PDF | Word) Learn more about the Certificate of Advanced Study Program Deadlines & Requirements Bachelor's Program Application Deadline: Dec. 1st Undergraduate Requirements Master's Programs Application Deadline: Feb. 1st MSIS Requirements MSISP Requirements Doctoral Program Application Deadline: Dec. 1st PhD Requirements Resources Admissions Texas Common Application Office of Admissions Graduate School Admissions International Students and Scholar Services Tuition & Costs Calculate Tuition + Cost of Attendance Financial Support Commitment to Diversity At the School of Information, we believe that diversity in our students, faculty, and staff creates an optimal learning and research environment. The iSchool is committed to social justice and we endeavor to make the world a better and fairer place through excellence in research, teaching, and public engagement. We welcome applicants from under-represented groups to join our diverse community of scholars, who all come from varied cultural and educational backgrounds. Diversity & Inclusion UT iSchool 1616 Guadalupe St, Suite #5.202 Austin, Texas 78701-1213 Facebook Twitter LinkedIn YouTube Instagram Contact Us News & Events Email Lists Faculty and Staff Information Indigenous Land Acknowledgment Login UT Austin Home Emergency Information Site Policies Web Accessibility Policy Web Privacy Policy Adobe Reader © The University of Texas at Austin 2022