Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Division of Auxiliary Services Auxiliary Services Information For Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff Search BC.edu Links BC Dining Menu Main Nav What's Open? Back Back Close About Overview Meet Our Team Sustainability Culinary Innovation Employment FAQs Feedback Events Wellness Meal Plans Overview Flex Dining Plans Dining Calculator Related Links Meal Plan FAQs Events & Specials Locations & Menus Overview What's Open? Lower Live Carney's Café 129 Chocolate Bar CoRo Café & Market Eagle's Nest Hillside Café Legal Grounds Lyons Hall Stuart Dining Hall The Bean Counter The Loft at Addie's Faculty Dining Room Faculty Dining Room Reservations BC Test Kitchen BC After Dark The Market Concessions Tully Cafe Related Links Events & Specials Sustainability Order Food & Gifts Overview GET Mobile Ordering Dining to Go BC Gifts Heights Catering Luxury Boxes & Lower Lawn Close Directory A to Z Listing Search All Departments in Auxiliary Services Search BC.edu Find pages or people Search Close Close Apply Visit Give Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close Join our Team! Flexible schedule, competitive pay rates, on-the-job training, and more. Dining FAQs Important Updates Locations & Hours Health & Safety Employment Open All Close All What's Open? What's Open Schedules subject to change. What is Green2Go? Our Green2Go program allows students to opt for a reusable to-go container instead of paper or plastic when they are eating on the go. Green2Go containers are sturdy, easy to carry, BPA free, and made out of 50 percent recycled plastic. The program is now active at Lower, McElroy, and Stuart dining halls. For a one-time fee of $9 on the mandatory meal plan, students can use Green2Go all year long. How are national shortages impacting BC Dining? As you may know, the country is experiencing a labor shortage resulting in supply chain disruptions, price increases, and delivery delays. BC Dining is doing everything possible to minimize the impact this may have on your dining experience. We thank you in advance for your patience and understanding. Are masks required in the dining halls? At this time and subject to change, masks/face coverings must be worn in all indoor spaces, including BC dining halls. Masks can only be removed when actively eating or drinking. How do Meal Plans work? All first-year students and those who live in residence halls without kitchens must purchase a Residential Meal Plan. While that plan meets many students' needs, BC Dining also offers a Maroon Upgrade and a Gold Upgrade that add more spending power and flexibility to individual meal plans. Meal Plans Where can I use my mandatory meal plan? Mandatory Residential Meal Plan funds are accepted at the following locations: Lower Live at Corcoran Commons The Loft at Addie's at Corcoran Commons Welch Dining Hall at Lyons Stuart Hall on Newton Campus Cafe 129 on Brighton Campus (opening later this semester) Carney's at McElroy Commons Eagle's Nest at McElroy Commons Farmers Market Pop-up Culinary Events What are Dining Bucks and where can I use them? The mandatory Residential Meal Plan also includes $175 per semester in Dining Bucks, which provide added flexibility and variety. These funds can be used at the following specialty locations: Hillside Cafe at Maloney Hall The Chocolate Bar at Stokes The Bean Counter at Fulton Hall Tully Cafe at 245 Beacon Street Legal Grounds on Newton campus CoRo Cafe at McElroy Commons The Market at Corcoran Commons (opening later this semester) GET Mobile ordering Concessions at Alumni Stadium and Conte Forum Vending machines around campus Open All Close All What's Open? What's Open Schedules subject to change. Open All Close All How are safe food handling practicing ensured? Health & Sanitation Increased frequency of cleaning and sanitizing the operation. Increased sanitation measures. Stations cleaned and sanitized between each task. All employees completed a mandatory COVID-19 Training Program prior to working in the operation. BCDS managers are ServSafe certified and remind employees of the importance of increased sanitation protocols. Employees are asked to stay home at the earliest signs of not feeling well. Personal Protective Equipment At this time and subject to change, masks/face coverings must be worn in all indoor spaces, including BC dining halls. Masks can only be removed when actively eating or drinking. Additional Safety Measures Plasticware, disposable cups, and takeout containers are available. More Grab and Go options available. Contactless payment to eliminate the exchange of change between the cashier and the customer. Our valued supply chain is also practicing emergency precautions with their employees and the handling of the products they deliver. What are the guidelines for dining indoors? At this time and subject to change, masks/face coverings must be worn in all indoor spaces, including BC dining halls. Masks can only be removed when actively eating or drinking. Please do not move the chairs and tables. Please sanitize your table before and after each use. Chicken and "Pinking" - what is it? There are several reasons why fully cooked poultry can be pink, from cooking techniques, to chicken feed or water supply. Check out this flyer from the Food Safety Inspection Services to learn more. BC Dining takes food safety very seriously. Our cooks are trained to cook chicken to an internal temperature of 165 degrees and record finished temperatures in cooking logs. Additionally, all of our cooks and managers are required to attend a two-day safe-food handling training called ServSafe and become certified ServSafe Managers, the highest certification level available. The ServSafe training teaches cooking temperatures, in addition to other important food safety information. We encourage students to bring any concerns with their meal to the manager on duty so that we can resolve the issue on the spot by replacing their meal if they are not satisfied, as would occur in any restaurant. This also gives us the opportunity to address problems immediately with our culinary team. Open All Close All Are you hiring? Yes! We have multiple jobs (servers, baristas, delivery, waitstaff, bartenders, and more) available across campus with flexible hours and a free meal. Interested in working for BC Dining? Visit our Employment page. All Awards Announcements Press Visit News Archive Culinary Innovation Our chefs and culinarians recognize the importance of continuing to introduce diverse and delicious new dishes to our menus. To incorporate more fresh, seasonal, and locally grown foods To infuse our cuisine with new flavors To encourage innovation and introduce new menu items BC Dining Sustainability Initiatives FRESH to Table Culinary Demos FRESH to Table promotes fairly traded, regional, equitable, sustainable, and healthy food through our purchasing, outreach, and menus while focusing on community awareness, education, and BC's Jesuit values. Food Rescue & Donations BC Dining is excited to support Every Bite Counts (eBC), a student volunteer group, in its efforts to donate food to over 40 nonprofits in the Greater Boston area. Waste Reduction Important components of BC Dining sustainability are improving water and energy efficiency, minimizing food waste, and cutting down on disposable paper and plastic use. Regionally Sourced BC Dining has a database of sustainable vendor and manufacturer practices, policies, and initiatives to ensure our products come from the most sustainable sources whenever feasible. Follow us for news, events, specials, and more Facts & Figures 85% of BC students enroll in a meal plan 17,500 cups of fairly traded coffee served each week 500 pounds of food donated each week to community nonprofits 23,000 meals prepared each day Quick Links What's Open? Today's Menu Order Food & Gifts Catering Add Funds to Dining Plan Back To Top Back To Top Contact BC Dining 129 Lake Street 3rd Floor Boston MA 02135 617-552-2263 bcdining@bc.edu Facebook Twitter Instagram About Wellness Meal Plans Locations & Menus Order Food & Gifts Events & Specials Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College