Skip navigation Find: A to Z Index People Directory Learn More: About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life Information For: Current Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Information For: Current Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Brown University Contemplative Studies Initiative Site Navigation Home About Us The Concentration Resources News Archived Events Contemplative Program Development Network The Catherine Kerr Vital Energy in Health and Healing Lecture and Workshop Series Subscribe to our Listserv Print this Page Share this Page Contemplative Studies Initiative Brown University Box 1927 59 George Street Providence, RI 02912 Phone 401-863-1798 [email protected] Brown About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life A to Z Index People Directory m.Brown.edu News Events Visit Campus Life Map Directory Brown Apps Safety About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life A to Z Index People Directory Contemplative Studies Initiative News News Contemplative Studies Faculty Members Awarded a 5 Year, $4.7-Million NIH Grant Brown University Researchers will lead a multi-institutional set of studies examining whether mindfulness interventions are effective in helping patients stick with medically recommended lifestyle changes. (Distributed September 17, 2015) William James Thesis Prize Awarded to Senior Contemplative Studies Concentrator, Chloe Zimmerman William James was the quitessential contemplative scientist. He engaged with humanistic philosophical thinkers around enduring questions related to value, aesthetics and morality. He was an acute observer of the "inner stuff" of conscious experience via introspection. He took a strong, observational interest in contemplative religious experience. His scientific greatness and importance comes from the ways in which he leveraged these subtle, ineffable questions and experiences to demarcate the new science of psychology. (Distributed May 14, 2015) Contemplative Studies Featured on "Now Here This," Brown Student Produced Podcasts Contemplative Studies is featured on the Brown student produced audio platform, Now Here This. This platform, updated weekly, and completely student run, provides listeners with indepth storytelling, investigative journalism, memoirs, interviews and more. To hear the Contemplative Studies story, click here. (Distributed February 13, 2015) Harold Roth Interviewed on Gary Null Show, WBAI, New York On Jan. 8, Prof. Harold Roth, Director of Contemplative Studies, was interviewed on the Gary Null Show, WBAI New York. Prof. Roth discussed the emerging field of Contemplative Studies and the new concentration here at Brown. To listen to the interview, please click here. (Distributed January 9, 2015) Brown Contemplative Studies Highlighted in Huffington Post Contemplative Studies at Brown was recently featured in an article by the Huffington Post. The article details the recent creation of the Contemplative Studies concentration at Brown and the larger impact of the program to the field and beyond. To view the full article, click here. (Distributed November 11, 2014) 1 of 5 ›› Subscribe via RSS feed Also in Contemplative Studies Initiative Site Navigation Home About Us The Concentration Resources News Archived Events Contemplative Program Development Network The Catherine Kerr Vital Energy in Health and Healing Lecture and Workshop Series Subscribe to our Listserv Print this Page Share this Page Contemplative Studies Initiative Brown University Box 1927 59 George Street Providence, RI 02912 Phone 401-863-1798 [email protected] Resources A to Z Index Career Opportunities Make a Gift People Directory Contemplative Resources Affiliate & Related Sites Retreat Locations Guide Contemplatives at Brown Meditation Community Scholarly Works Un-DUG Facebook Page Brown University Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-1000 Maps & Directions / Contact Us © 2022 Brown University Connect: [email protected] Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram iTunes U Google+ LinkedIn RSS Futurity