Skip to main content Students and Curriculum Leadership Students and Curriculum Leadership Executive Council Advisory Councils Staff News and Events CENTERS & INITIATIVES ENERGY EVOLVED AND ENLIGHTENED The Kay Bailey Hutchison Energy Center for Business, Law, and Policy: An initiative of the McCombs School of Business and the University of Texas School of Law. OUR MISSION The KBH Energy Initiative seeks to be the pre-eminent energy initiative at the intersection of energy business, law, and policy. We will pursue this mission by leveraging the resources of the McCombs Business and Law Schools, their alumni, and supporters to expand our knowledge and understanding of this crucial industry; to engage, inform, and connect leaders in that industry, in government, and at UT on core energy issues; to educate and inspire students to be the next generation of leaders; to grow the network and reach of the University of Texas throughout the world of energy. McCombs School of Business School of Law Our Goals Ideas and Communication We're building a broad platform to study the interdisciplinary issues associated with the needs of the energy industry and consumers. We resolve to convene leaders in the industry, academics, and government for discussion, study, and analysis of these issues. Education We aim to support and enhance the educational mission of the McCombs School and the Law School. We strengthen the business and legal education of future leaders in the energy industry and promote innovative and interdisciplinary courses designed to prepare students with a better understanding of the interconnectivity between business, law, and policy in the energy sector. Networks We've created and supported networks for collaboration among energy professionals, scholars, and government officials, and connected University of Texas students and alumni to such networks. WANT TO STAY IN TOUCH? Subscribe to our newsletter or send us an email. All media requests for Senator Hutchison should be sent to Mari Myers. Subscribe Contact Us KBH Energy Center © 2021 McCombs School of Business, The University of Texas at Austin