Skip to main content Home About the School Apply to the School Exhibitions Publications News Public Events Close Yale School of Art 1156 Chapel Street, POB 208339 New Haven, Connecticut, 06520-8339 Pause animations Play animations Home About the School Apply to the School Exhibitions Publications News Public Events Pause animations Play animations This website exists as an ongoing collaborative experiment in digital publishing and information sharing. Because this website functions as a wiki, all members of the School of Art community—graduate students, faculty, staff, and alums—have the ability to add new content and pages, and to edit most of the site’s existing content. Content is the property of its various authors. When you contribute to this site, you agree to abide by Yale University academic and network use policy, and to act as a responsible member of our community. Visitor: Log in Edit this page Page history Page last changed by: Sarah Stevens-Morling Background changed by: Unknown Seven Yale School of Art Alums Named 2022 Guggenheim Fellows April 9, 2022 The Yale School of Art is pleased to announce that alumni Gary Burnley (MFA ‘74), Sam Contis (MFA ‘08), Nathaniel Donnett (MFA ‘21), Chie Fueki (MFA ‘98), Mark Thomas Gibson (MFA ‘13), Janice Nowinski (MFA ‘87), and Rebecca Soderholm (MFA ‘07) are among the 2022 Guggenheim Fellows named this week by the John Simon Guggenheim Memorial Foundation. This year’s fellowships were awarded to 180 writers, scholars, artists, and scientists meticulously selected from nearly 2,500 applicants across the United States and Canada in the Foundation’s ninety-seventh competition. Chosen through a rigorous peer-review process on the basis of both prior achievement and exceptional promise, the 2022 Fellows are drawn from 51 scholarly disciplines and artistic fields, 81 academic institutions, 31 states and the District of Columbia, and four Canadian provinces. The 2022 Guggenheim Fellows range in age from 33 to 75 and almost 60 have no full-time college or university affiliation. Since its establishment in 1925, the John Simon Guggenheim Memorial Foundation has granted nearly $400 million in Fellowships to over 18,000 individuals, among whom are more than 125 Nobel laureates, members of all the national academies, winners of the Pulitzer Prize, Fields Medal, Turing Award, Bancroft Prize, National Book Award, and other internationally recognized honors. Editor details Last edited by: Sarah Stevens-Morling Edit access: Everybody © 2022 Support the School Visiting Instagram Facebook YouTube Contact Sitemap Accessibility at Yale This website exists as an ongoing collaborative experiment in digital publishing and information sharing. Because this website functions as a wiki, all members of the School of Art community—graduate students, faculty, staff, and alums—have the ability to add new content and pages, and to edit most of the site’s existing content. Content is the property of its various authors. When you contribute to this site, you agree to abide by Yale University academic and network use policy, and to act as a responsible member of our community. Visitor: Log in Edit this page Page history Page last changed by: Sarah Stevens-Morling Background changed by: Unknown