Skip to main content Temple University Explore Temple’s Schools and Colleges Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Support Temple Temple University Search Site Search Full Menu Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees President History & Traditions Temple Health News & Media Offices Public Information Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Development Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Libraries Industrial and Systems Engineering Major You are here Home Academics Degrees and Programs Industrial and Systems Engineering Major Apply Request More Info Industrial and Systems Engineering Major Admissions Careers, Internships & Opportunities Our Faculty Required Courses Research & Facilities Scholarships & Financial Aid Bachelor of Science in Industrial and Systems Engineering Prepare to become a leader in quality and productivity management with the Bachelor of Science in Industrial and Systems Engineering at Temple University's College of Engineering. Learn to design, develop and implement solutions for the integrated systems that help a wide variety of companies save money and increase operating efficiency. The only degree of its kind in the Philadelphia region, the Industrial and Systems Engineering Major is a blend of business and engineering. The work of industrial and systems engineers is about more than manufacturing—it encompasses nearly every industry and sector. The Industrial and Systems Engineering Major is flexible, integrating coursework across multiple fields of study, making learning applicable to many types of industries. Through this versatile and interdisciplinary degree program, you will apply expertise to many fields, including entertainment companies, healthcare organizations, manufacturing industries, and shipping and logistics businesses; gain expertise in engineering in a cutting-edge, advanced curriculum designed to solve today’s engineering problems; and engineer systems and processes to strengthen quality and productivity. Companies continuously seek to increase productivity and outcomes, as well as improve quality. Gain the knowledge base to provide innovative and applied solutions and graduate with the tools and skills ready to meet a growing demand. The U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics projects an 8% increase in jobs for industrial engineers from 2018 to 2028. Classes & Curriculum Learn the analytical, computational and experimental practices necessary for system integration with the 128-credit Industrial and Systems Engineering Major. The curriculum builds on coursework in business, engineering, math and sciences over eight semesters. The College of Engineering developed nine courses for this program, which cover operations management and research, production planning and control, quality assurance, simulation, logistics, and supply chain management. Required courses for the Industrial and Systems Engineering include the following. Engineering Economics Principles of Supply Chain Management Production Process Design and Laboratory Learn more about Industrial and Systems Engineering coursework. Satomi Sugita Industrial & Systems Engineering BS, ’22 “ISE focuses on optimizing and improving existing processes or systems. It may be looking at manufacturing processes, delivery systems, labor efficiency in a program, or even the way paperwork is filed within a company.” Read more about Satomi Co-ops Cooperative education (co-op) is an optional program that can provide you with the opportunity to work professionally before graduation. Students apply the knowledge they have learned in the classroom to real-world problems in the field. A co-op will help you create valuable connections with industry professionals, build a strong résumé and have an enhanced perspective on your field. Learn more about co-ops, internships and other professional development opportunities. Senior Design College of Engineering students have hands-on, practical opportunities to apply the theories and concepts learned in their coursework to real-world engineering design projects. In the Senior Design course, you'll plan, formulate and develop designs, as well as learn skills and techniques for managing and executing projects. Explore Senior Design. Related Graduate Degrees Civil Engineering MS Computer and Systems Security PSM Engineering Management MS Mechanical Engineering MS Tuition & Fees In keeping with Temple’s commitment to access and affordability, the Bachelor of Science in Industrial and Systems Engineering offers a competitive level of tuition with multiple opportunities for financial support. Tuition rates are set annually by the university and are affected by multiple factors, including program degree level (undergraduate or graduate), course load (full- or part-time), in-state or out-of-state residency, and more. Learn more about our tuition and fees. These tuition costs apply to the 2021–2022 academic year. Pennsylvania resident: $20,808.00 per year Out-of-state: $33,984.00 per year Explore financial aid and scholarship opportunities for the Industrial and Systems Engineering Major program. Laptop Requirement The College of Engineering requires that students own a laptop for their engineering coursework by their junior year of study. Learn more about the hardware recommendation. Our Academic Advisors Through advising workshops, career coaching, individual appointments and walk-in advising, support services are available to all undergraduate Engineering students. Such services range from academic mentoring, career development, choosing a major, degree planning, learning support and post-graduation planning. All academic advisors are available Monday through Friday, 8:30 a.m. to 5 p.m., to answer questions regarding General Education (GenEd), college and major requirements, and university academic policies and procedures. Learn more about the Center for Academic Advising and Student Affairs. Student Clubs & Organizations Participating in one or more of the College of Engineering’s 15 student groups usually also means greater success at Temple. Further, you’ll find peer support and like-minded students, and probably effect some positive change, either locally or around the world. Among other groups, students can join the National Society of Black Engineers, Society of Hispanic Professional Engineers, Society of Asian Scientists and Engineers, Society of Women Engineers and Temple Robotics. See the full list of engineering clubs and organizations. Student Competitions Each year, Temple Engineering students compete rigorously in regional and national events that celebrate design, engineering and innovation, including the Formula SAE Collegiate Design Series, the NASA Robotic Mining Competition, the Student Design Competition and many others. Study Away Opportunities Add a global perspective to your Industrial and Systems Engineering Major. Study abroad for a summer or semester. EN-ISE-BSIS Additional Program Information Visit College Site View Program Details Go back to AcademicsMore in Industrial and Systems Engineering Major Admissions Careers, Internships & Opportunities Our Faculty Required Courses Research & Facilities Scholarships & Financial Aid Apply Request More Info Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Calendar Policies Social Media TUportal TUmail Accessibility Careers at Temple Safety & Emergency Information Ethics & Compliance Privacy Statement Professional Licensure Disclosures Follow Temple University Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community. Apply Request More Info