Chancellor Offices Directory Contact Us About Us Leadership Our Universities Giving Reports Policies Equal Employment Opportunity Operating Policies Resources Compliance Staff Incident Report-ASU INCIDENT REPORT-TTU INCIDENT REPORT-TTUHSC INCIDENT REPORT-MSU Formal Complaint Form Please note that the Formal Complaint form is for the complaining party to file a complaint about directly experienced behavior. If you are simply reporting an incident, please use the respective link provided above. Equal Opportunity Texas Tech University System System Administration Building 1508 Knoxville Ave. Ste. 309 Box 41073 Lubbock, TX 79409-1073 Phone: 806.742.3627 Fax: 806.742.3018 8 a.m. - 5 p.m. Central, Monday - Friday Home / Offices / Equal Employment Opportunity Office of Equal Opportunity The Texas Tech University System and its five component institutions—Texas Tech University, Texas Tech University Health Sciences Center, Angelo State University, Texas Tech University Health Sciences Center El Paso and Midwestern State University—are committed to promoting equal employment opportunity and affirmative action throughout its multiple academic communities. Discrimination or harassment based on sex (including pregnancy), race, color, national origin, religion, age, disability, protected veteran status, genetic information, sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression, or other legally protected categories, classes, or characteristics is not tolerated. The Office of Equal Opportunity (EO) upholds each institution's anti-discrimination and anti-retaliation policies and ensures that employees and applicants of the Texas Tech University System are treated fairly, equally and respectfully. The Office of EO handles employee complaints of unlawful discrimination and harassment, including sexual harassment. An employee who believes they are being discriminated against or harassed based on their protected status may file a grievance with the EO Office without fear of retaliation. EO functions as a neutral party in investigating complaints and takes steps to fairly address and resolve such matters. The Office of EO also responds on behalf of the Texas Tech University System to complaints filed with external civil rights agencies. The office serves as a resource for administrators and managers regarding personnel issues, monitors compliance with equal employment opportunity laws and regulations, and maintains Affirmative Action Plans. NEWS & INFORMATION: January 29, 2021 - Texas Tech University System Employees Take Part in Mediation Training Fraud & Misconduct Hotline | Careers | Site Map | Webmaster Texas Tech University Texas Tech University Health Sciences Center Angelo State University Texas Tech University Health Sciences Center El Paso Midwestern State University State of Texas Statewide Search Online Institutional Resumes Texas Homeland Security Texas Veterans Portal SAO Fraud Reporting Energy Management TTU System Regulations General Policy Information Title IX Open Records Requests ©2013 Texas Tech University System 1508 Knoxville Avenue, Lubbock, TX 79409 806.742.2011 ©