Skip to main content Skip to main content Prospective Students Current Students Alumni Events Skip to main content Apply Apply Give Give Schedule a Visit SMU Tour Follow Us Follow Us Facebook Follow Us Instagram Follow Us Twitter Follow Us YouTube Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. Navigate Search Skip to main content World Languages Why Study Here? Why Study Here? WLL Works Undergraduate Programs Undergraduate Programs World Languages Major International Film Studies Minor Arabic American Sign Language Chinese French German Ancient Greek Italian Japanese Latin Russian Spanish Resources Resources Student Resources Faculty Resources Job Opportunities People People Meet the Faculty Research Research Faculty Research About About Contact Us Events News Alumni Connection Give ☰ SMU Department of World Languages and Literatures World Languages Undergraduate Programs Italian Italian The Department of World Languages and Literatures offers a wide variety of Italian courses, ranging from beginning language and intermediate language courses to advanced literature, culture, and cinema courses. The department offers two different options for an Italian minor and opportunities for internships in Italian. Why Study Italian? 1. Italy has a rich cultural heritage Over 60% of the world's art treasures are found in Italy and Italian literature boasts some of the world's most famous writers, thinkers, and Nobel Prize winners from Dante, Boccaccio, Petrarch, and Machiavelli, to Verga, Svevo, and Pirandello. Knowledge of the language is essential to fully appreciate the richness of Italian literature, theater, opera, and films. 2. There is a demand in the workplace for Italian language skills Six of the 100 biggest global companies have their headquarters in Italy, and Italy is the world’s fifth largest industrial producer of goods. In the fields of diplomacy and trade, the federal government is always seeking qualified applicants with Italian language skills. Knowledge of Italian is not only helpful, but often necessary for academic, business, or social research. 3. Contemporary Italy has a vibrant global presence Today, Italy is a world leader in the culinary arts, interior design, fashion, graphic design, furniture design, machine tool manufacturing, robotics, electromechanical machinery, shipbuilding, space engineering, construction machinery, and transportation equipment. Speaking Italian is essential to travel to Italy and experience the essence of its culture. How can you savor a gourmet Italian meal in a Tuscan restaurant if you can't read the menu? 4. Studying Italian helps to build your knowledge of other languages With approximately 70 million first-language speakers, Italy is the official language of Italy and parts of Switzerland, and there are Italian-speaking communities in other parts of the world, including Malta, Libya, Somalia, Slovenia, Croatia, the United States, the United Kingdom, Argentina, and Australia. As a Romance language, Italian has close ties to Portuguese, Spanish, and French, and your study of Italian will make learning another Romance language significantly easier. In general, your study of Italian will enable you to gain communication skills, reflect on your language usage, and improve your writing and speaking skills in English as well. In addition to providing students with great satisfaction and added confidence, the study of Italian greatly enhances skills in analyzing, discussing, and categorizing information and ideas. References: "How Good is Italian for Business?" (British Council) Italian Major Minors Courses Events Awards Scholarships Internships Italian Club Faculty and Advising Apply Visit Academics Undergraduate Degrees Graduate Degrees Minors and Programs Research Centers and Institutes Connect Administrative Directory Department Directory Alumni Make a Gift Dedman College of Humanities & Sciences P.O. Box 750235 | Dallas, Texas | 75275-0233 214-768-2440 © Southern Methodist University Legal Disclosures facebook twitter youtube