Skip navigation Information For: Future Students Current Students PLME Students Faculty & Staff Residents & Fellows Alumni Parents The Warren Alpert Medical School of Brown University Search Brown Search AMS About Education Student Affairs Diversity Admission Financial Aid Med A to Z People Directory Department of Emergency Medicine Divisions Division of Emergency Ultrasound Division of Emergency Ultrasound Division of Emergency Ultrasound The mission of the Division of Emergency Ultrasound (EUS) is to develop and maintain excellence in emergency department diagnostic and procedural point-of-care ultrasound. The division provides education to residents, medical students, faculty, and fellows. In addition, we are actively conducting multiple emergency ultrasound research projects and we provide continuous quality assurance on all of the images obtained in our department. Dr. Kristin Dwyer MD, MPH, is the director of the Ultrasound Fellowship and the director of the Division of Emergency Ultrasound (EUS) which consists of a vibrant and dedicated staff. Dr. Erika Constantine is the Pediatric EUS director. Dr. Shirley Wu is the Medical School EUS program director. Dr Frantz Gibbs is the EUS Nursing and Advanced Professional Practitioner Education Director. Dr. Otto Liebmann provides integral support for all aspects of the program including resident rotation, journal clubs and quality assurance. Education Residents get EUS training throughout their four-year program. During their intern year, residents have a dedicated one month-long EUS rotation which is followed by on-shift training. There is an additional EUS elective that many senior EM residents take advantage of to hone their basic skills or develop new more advanced techniques before graduating. PEM fellows follow a comprehensive ultrasound curriculum which spans over the course of their 3 years of training and includes scanning, teaching and image review. Medical students from either the Brown Alpert Medical School or visiting students from other medical schools can elect to participate in a one month EUS elective where they perform ultrasound scans with faculty and residents in the emergency department. Fellows complete a one-year EUS Fellowship program that prepares EM residency graduates to become fellowship directors at academic and community hospitals. Research • TAPSE for pulmonary embolism (multi-center study) • MAPSE for heart failure • Carotid ultrasound for resuscitation • Lung ultrasound for traumatic pneumothorax • REASON – EUS in Cardiac Arrest (multi-center study) • STONE – Utility of point-of-care ultrasound in Renal Colic (multi- center study) • Pediatric POCUS appy study (multi-center study) Service and Outreach Faculty members have been course directors and course instructors at the local (Brown EUS Course, Yale NewportCourse, Maine Medical PPOCUS course), regional (RI ACEP, MACEP), national (ACEP, AAP, P2Network) and international (Uganda, Germany, Israel, Mexico, Cuba, Vietnam, Rwanda and Haiti) levels. You can also find us on the Brown EM Blog. http://brownemblog.com/brown-sound Brown Participates in Indianapolis SAEM Sonogames Competition Residents scanning with our new ultrasound technologist/sonographer educator Ruby Meran, RDMS, RVT Brown EM POCUS division have a photo shoot to create a collection of Stock Photos for SAEM AEUS Brown EM Faculty Ultrasound Workshop Fellow Nikky Leonard, and faculty Kristin Dwyer and Erika Constantine enjoyed the SAEMF AEUS virtual wine tasting event with other POCUS colleagues to raise money for educational and research grants Home About Us Emergency Medicine Faculty Members Diversity and Inclusion DARE EM - Discussing Anti-Racism & Equity in Emergency Medicine Clinical Sites Education Divisions EMS Emergency Neurosciences and Critical Care Research Global Emergency Medicine Injury Prevention Medical Simulation Sex and Gender in Emergency Medicine Disaster Medicine and Emergency Preparedness Ultrasound Faculty Research Fellowship Meet our Ultrasound Fellows Resident and Medical Student Education Our 2020 BAEMA Fellowship Graduates Our 2020 Emergency Clinical Ultrasound Graduates Programs Research Pediatric Emergency Medicine Print this Page Share this Page Mailing Address: Brown University Dept. of Emergency Medicine 55 Claverick Street, Suite 100 Providence, RI 02903 Physical Address: Brown University Dept. of Emergency Medicine Administration 55 Claverick St., Suite 100 Providence, RI 02903 Phone (401) 444-5826 Tweets by @BrownUltrusound The Warren Alpert Medical School of Brown University Box G-A1, Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-3330 Maps & Directions / Contact Us / Accessibility © 2022 Brown University Connect: Facebook / LinkedIn / YouTube / Flickr / Twitter Resources Academic Departments Affiliated Hospitals Faculty Directory Make a Gift Quick Links Brown Emergency Medicine (Brown EM) Lifespan