Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Health Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Our Services Appointments Health Topics Events Forms and Guidelines Our Organization News See All Services What's Open Now Patient Resources Quarantine and Isolation Support Coping Tools Immunization Compliance Top Services Birth Control Education Individual Counseling Primary Care Register with Disability Services Sexual Assault: Get Support STI Testing Support Groups Travel Medicine Urgent Medical Concerns Workshops and Trainings Cost of Service Overview Make an Appointment Same Day Service Emergency and After-hours Support Alcohol Body Image Concerns Marijuana Disabilities Other Drugs HIV Insurance Men's Health Mental Health and Well-Being Anxiety Depression Stress Nutrition Physical Activity Relationships Overview Academic Relationships Friendships Roommates Sexual and Reproductive Health Sleep Transgender and Gender Expansive Health Violence Prevention Prevention Consent What Is Sexual Assault? Supporting a Survivor What Is Relationship Abuse? Stalking What Is Sexual Harassment? Bystander Intervention-Step UP! Women's Health See All Events Sexual Assault Awareness Month Columbia Health Flu Season Information Virtual Naloxone Training About Columbia Health Who We Are Who We Serve Confidentiality, Patient Rights, & Patient Responsibilities Operating Philosophy Video Library Your Feedback Staff Directory Health Units Alice! Health Promotion Counseling and Psychological Services Disability Services Gay Health Advocacy Project (GHAP) Insurance Office Medical Services Sexual Violence Response Columbia Health You are here: Home Getting Started Student Insurance Loss of Health Insurance Loss of Health Insurance Joining the Columbia Plan Students and/or their eligible dependents, involuntarily losing their insurance coverage provided through a non-Columbia plan may petition for enrollment in The Columbia Plan by submitting a Qualifying Life Event (QLE) Petition through the Patient Portal via downloadable forms. If enrollment in The Columbia Plan was waived for the fall term, the waiver will automatically be extended to the spring term unless a QLE occurs that warrants enrollment. Examples of a QLE are: Termination of insurance coverage under a partner’s or employer’s beneﬁt plan Surpassing the maximum age for coverage as a dependent under a parent's plan Students have 60 days from the Qualifying Life Event to file a Petition to Enroll with the Student Insurance Office. Students must upload through the Patient Portal via the downloadable forms section, the QLE Petition form and a Proof of Termination letter from their current insurance carrier. The Proof of Termination letter must contain the student's name and the date their coverage terminated. Students at Jewish Theological Seminary, Teachers College, Union Theological Seminary, and Columbia University Medical Center must follow their schools' procedures. Other Coverage Options Graduating or departing students can pursue health insurance options through employers, state-based health care exchanges, and individual plans directly offered by insurance companies. Columbia does not endorse and has not verified the coverage offered by employers, state-based health care exchanges, or individual plans directly offered by insurance companies. Individuals are encouraged to carefully review all details of any insurance plan before making a selection. Employer Plans Most people in the US get their health insurance via an employer-sponsored plan. If you are eligible, or will become eligible, this may be your best option as most employers cover a part or most of the cost of health insurance premiums. When conducting a job search be sure to look at the insurance plan offerings in addition to salary and other benefits available from a prospective employer. Exchange Plans New York offers a robust health care exchange offering medical, dental, and vision plans. Most people who are unsure of employment potential in the near term or unemployed may find the exchange options the most appropriate. Obtaining insurance through the exchange offers the individual choice over plan options. Premiums are income-based and subsidies to help offset costs may be available. For many, exchange plans are the lowest cost option to obtain health insurance. Online: https://nystateofhealth.ny.gov/ If you are not in New York you can find exchange plan options by visiting https://www.healthcare.gov/. Parent/Guardian Plans If you are under the age of 26 you may be eligible for coverage under a parent or guardian plan. Consider if this option might work for you and your family, though be sure to consider how long you might able to stay on the plan. If you will turn 26 before the end of 2021 this may not be the best option, as you might have to change plans more than once in the next few months. Related Links About the Columbia Student Health Insurance Plan Dental and Vision Benefits Eligibility for Columbia Student Health Insurance Plan Loss of Health Insurance Insurance for Families Health Care for International Students Referral Requirements Request a Waiver Contact Us Columbia Health Insurance Office John Jay Hall, 3rd Floor [email protected] 212-854-3286 Need help with weekend or late night distress? Check out our Coping Tools page for various digital services, mobile apps, and online resources outside our regular hours of operation. Our limited podcast series, Invisible and On Stage, provides an open conversation around racism-related stress, identity, and community, and the way they impact mental health. Listen now! The entire Columbia Health team, photographed in Lerner Hall. Click the image to see a larger version. Columbia Health Alice! Health Promotion Disability Services Counseling and Psychological Services Gay Health Advocacy Project (GHAP) Insurance Office Immunization Compliance Office Medical Services Sexual Violence Response All Columbia Health offices are closed on University Holidays. Annual Report Columbia Health Annual Report Stay Connected Receive important news and event info from Columbia Health Columbia Health Events Join us for workshops, panel discussions, skill-building opportunities, and other events! Accessibility Accommodations Columbia Health makes every effort to accommodate individuals with disabilities. If you require disability accommodations to attend an event sponsored by Columbia Health, or by the University, contact Disability Services at 212-854-2388 at least 10 days in advance of the event. 212-854-2284 [email protected] Columbia Health Administration Wallach Hall, Suite 125, Mail Code 4202, 1116 Amsterdam Avenue · New York, NY 10027 Phone 212-854-2284 Contact Us [email protected]umbia.edu Internal Use Only Login to Access Follow Us Facebook Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close