Skip to main content Restrict my search to Police Department Submit Close Login to AccessUH Give to UH Search University of Houston Police Department About UHPD General Information History of UHPD UHPD Strategic Vision Become a Police Officer Clery Campus Security Authority Am I a CSA? My Responsibility Get More Info Make a Report FAQs APPLY ONLINE Records & Reports Report a Crime Daily Crime Log Annual Security and Fire Safety Report File a Complaint Give a Compliment Hazard Report Safety & Security Staying Safe Crime Prevention Crime Prevention Services How You Can Prevent Crime Crime Prevention Tips Operation ID Vehicle Accidents Duty to Give Info and Render Aid Crash Involving Damage to a Vehicle Striking an Unattended Vehicle Striking a Fixture or Landscaping Immediate Reporting Police Investigation Resources Sensitive Crimes Violent Incidents Sexual Assault Sex Offender Registry Domestic Violence Hate Crimes Harassment Identity Theft Active Shooter Active Shooter Defined Avoid Lockdown & Deny Alert & Notify Defend & Counter Police Intervention Resources Bomb Threats Explosions Shelter In Place Office Security Community Services Security Escort Blue Light Emergency Phones Camera Network Lost and Found Bike Registration Special Events Money Transfers Policies & Training Campus Carry Policy FAQs Secure Storage Process Senate Bill 4 Racial Profiling Police In-Service Training Civil Protests Contact UHPD UH Home Police Department Safety & Security Active Shooter Defend and Counter Active Shooter Active Shooter Defined Avoid Lockdown and Deny Alert and Notify Defend and Counter Police Intervention Resources Contact UHPD 4051 Wheeler Ave. Houston, TX 77204-6191 (713) 743-3333 or 911 from a campus phone non-emergency email police@uh.edu Active Shooter Defend and Counter If you encounter the assailant, action is quicker than reaction. If the assailant is not shooting, you may decide to do what they say, although it is likely that the time for compliance and negotiation has already passed. Only you can draw the line on what you will or will not do to preserve your life or the lives of others. If the assailant is shooting or starts shooting people, you need to make a choice, (at this point it is your choice) stay still and hope they don’t shoot you, run for an exit while zigzagging,or even attack the shooter. This is very dangerous, but certainly no more than doing nothing and dying in place. A moving target is much harder to hit than a stationary one and the last thing that the shooter will expect is to be attacked by an unarmed person(s). Any option chosen may still result in a negative consequence. If the assailant is among your group, remember there is strength in numbers. If you and the people with you have made the decision to defend yourselves and counter the assailant then you should cause distractions to the assailant’s intended thought process. Create as much noise as possible. Create as much movement as possible. Throw objects at the face of the shooter. The goal is to increase the level of skill necessary to accurately shoot a weapon at the room occupants. Take control of the shooter. While distractions are conducted, one person each should grab and secure a limb of the shooter (each arm, each leg and head). Each person should use their body weight on each limb to hold the shooter down until law enforcement arrives. Again this is not a recommendation to attack the shooter but rather a response option to fight when there is only one other alternative. 4051 Wheeler Ave. Houston, TX 77204-6191 UH Emergency Information Call UHPD: 713-743-3333 Campus Map For Emergencies Dial 911 from a campus phone Non-Emergency email: police@uh.edu Security Escorts Lost and Found Bicycle Registration ©2022 University of Houston. All rights reserved. Report a problem with this page Texas.gov Texas Homeland Security TRAIL Fraud Reporting Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Linking Notice Privacy Notice Open Records/Public Information Act Institutional Résumé Required Reports Electronic & Information Resources Accessibility Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness University Policies