Skip to main content Skip to primary site menu Google Tag Manager Search form Search Brown University A-Z Index People Directory Students Alumni Careers News Events Search Give Explore Brown University's School of Public Health Admissions Academics Research Faculty About Diversity Admissions Academics Research Faculty About Diversity A-Z Index People Directory Students Alumni Careers News Events Department of Behavioral and Social Sciences Home About Degree Programs Research People News Resources Site Navigation Home About i-BSHS Seminar Series Innovations Award BSS Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Degree Programs Doctoral Program Master’s Program Research Alcohol use & misuse Chronic disease prevention and management Drug use and misuse Global Health HIV, sexually transmitted infections, and reproductive health Health disparities and health equity Lesbian, gay, bisexual, and transgender health Mindfulness Obesity, nutrition, and physical activity Smoking and tobacco use People Leadership & Administration Faculty Current Doctoral Students BSHS Alumni News Resources For Faculty For Current Doctoral Students BSHS Dissertation Defense | Kira Rose DiClemente, MPH Apr 28, 2021 The Department of Behavioral and Social Sciences is pleased to announce the dissertation defense of Kira DiClemente on May 20, 2021 at 1:00 p.m. EST. "Mental health experiences of women exposed to war and violence in Africa: a community-based approach" Despite sharing a culture of resilience and strong community, African women exposed to war and violence carry a high burden of post-traumatic stress disorder, depression, and anxiety. Using a community-based approach, this dissertation examines the social context of the mental health experiences of African women exposed to war and violence. In partnership with members of the African refugee community in Providence, Rhode Island, Aims 1 and 2 of this research investigate key influences on women’s mental health, including exposure to traumatic events, sociocultural norms, and intimate partner relationships. Aim 3 presents an empirical investigation of these topics among women who remain in post-conflict settings. These findings offer novel and community-driven perspectives on intervention opportunities to address the mental health needs of this population. Ph.D. Advisor: Abigail Harrison, MPH, Ph.D. The dissertation defense will be live-streamed on May 20th at 1:00 p.m. Eastern Standard Time. Click here to join the livestream now. To call in dial: 877-369-0926 Meeting ID: 982 7704 7515 Click here to add this event to your calendar. Please note that this virtual event, including attendees’ Zoom video, audio and screen name, and questions or chats, will be recorded. All or portions of the event recording may be shared through Brown University’s digital channels. Individuals who do not want their identities to be captured are solely responsible for turning off their camera, muting their microphone and/or adjusting their screen name accordingly. By attending this event, you consent to your name, voice, and/or image being recorded and to Brown University reproducing, distributing and otherwise displaying the recording, within its sole discretion. Department of Behavioral and Social Sciences Department of Behavioral and Social Sciences Brown University Box G-S121-4 Providence, RI 02912 Phone: 401-863-6578 Fax: 401-863-6697 Email [email protected] Facebook Facebook Brown University Giving to Brown 121 South Main Street, Providence, Rhode Island 02903, USA 401-863-3375 Contact Us Newsletter Maps Directions Career Opportunities Campus Safety Accessibility Brown Social Media © 2022 Brown University | Back to top