Skip to main content iastate.edu Index A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z Directory Maps Safety Sign Ons Iowa State University Division of Student Affairs Menu Toggle Search Cyclones Forever Cyclone Support Sexual Assault Contact Us Main navigation Home About Mission & Priorities Meet the VP Senior Leaders Organization Chart Reporting Units Campus Life Central Office Dean of Students Office Student Health and Wellness Directory Impact Assessment By The Numbers Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Outside the Classroom Reports Students Career Competencies Co-Curricular Learning Domains Scholarships Student Organization Funding Staff Resources Assessment Awards CARE Recognition Committees Communications Events Calendar Division Meetings Policies Professional Development Career Competencies We want students’ employment experience within the Division of Student Affairs to be more than just a paycheck. We believe that every position a student works can help prepare them for their work once they graduate from Iowa State University. The eight Student Employee Career Readiness Competencies, definitions, and related student-employee learning outcomes provide both a framework and a language for describing/defining the competencies that develop through experiences and employment offered in the Division of Student Affairs. The Career Readiness Competencies relate directly to, but are fundamentally separate from, the Co-curricular Learning Domains, or CCLDs. The CRCs allow both employers and employees to have concrete definitions of skills desired by managers and CEOs. Collaboration and Teamwork Engage in intentional interactions among groups and/or individuals of differing backgrounds directed at achieving a shared goal. Able to work productively within a team structure, and identify and manage group dynamics. Communication Articulate thoughts and concepts clearly and effectively in written and oral forms, in a manner conducive to fostering professional relationships. Including the demonstration of proficient speaking and listening skills, to clearly express oneself and receive ideas of others. Professionalism Demonstrate personal accountability and effective work habits (e.g., punctuality, working productively with others, and time management) and understand the impact of non-verbal communication on professional work image. Demonstrate integrity and ethical behavior, act responsibly, and be able to learn from mistakes. Intercultural Perspectives Understand personal identities. Value, respect, and learn from divergent viewpoints. Demonstrate openness, inclusiveness, and the ability to interact respectfully with all people. Appreciate individuals’ differences. Leadership Identify the strengths of self and others to achieve common goals and use interpersonal skills to coach and develop others. Manage emotions and acknowledge those of others to inspire, guide, and empower; and organize, align, and prioritize team tasks for positive change. Learning and Application Acquire knowledge, skills, and experiences and apply academic and job-based learning in novel and innovative ways. Application can happen through simple connections among ideas and experiences, to synthesizing and transferring learning in various contexts and environments. Critical Thinking and Problem Solving Synthesize existing ideas, images, or expertise in original ways. Design, evaluate and implement strategies or interventions to answer questions, make decisions, or achieve a desired goal. Technology Integrate and utilize technology ethically and efficiently, and discern when technology is appropriate to the task at hand. Adapt to new and emerging technologies to complete tasks and accomplish goals based on organizational purpose. CRC Student Affairs Staff Resources Iowa State University Division of Student Affairs Office of the Senior Vice President and Provost Division of Operations and Finance Office of the President Contact 2350 Beardshear Hall 515 Morrill Road Ames, IA 50011 Summer Hours | May 16- August 12; Monday- Friday, 7:30 a.m.- 4 p.m. studentaffairs@iastate.edu 515-294-4420 phone Give Copyright © 1995- Iowa State University of Science and Technology All rights reserved. Non-discrimination Policy Privacy Policy Digital Access & Accessibility Consumer information Loading...