Skip to main content GSD Logo Harvard University Graduate School of Design Reopening Menu Search Academics Department of Architecture Department of Landscape Architecture Department of Urban Planning and Design Design Studies Design Engineering Doctoral Programs Undergraduate Architecture Studies Loeb Fellowship Executive Education Early Design Education Research Courses More ▼ Apply GSD Now Give People Faculty Staff Students Alumni About Administrative Leadership Council Community Values, Rights, and Responsibilities Diversity, Inclusion, and Belonging Alumni and Friends Website Resources Most Popular: Admissions COVID-19 Financial Aid Frances Loeb Library Student Affairs Offices & Services All Resources → For: Prospective Students Current Students Faculty Staff Alumni Explore News Events Exhibitions Publications Podcasts Projects Topics Site Index Jump to: A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z A AIA Henry Adams Certificate AIA Henry Adams Medal AICP Outstanding Student Award Academic Affairs Academic Appointments and Policies Academic Calendars & Schedules Academic Conduct Policy Academic Integrity Academic Services & Advising Accellion Secure File Transfer Accessibility Services Accessibility Services at Public Programs Access to Career Services During Leave of Absence Accreditation Administrative Leadership Council Admissions Admissions & Financial Aid Admissions FAQ AfricaGSD After MDes Workshops After MDes Workshops Aga Khan Program at the GSD Alpha Rho Chi Medal Alumni Connections Alumni Council Career Panels American Society of Landscape Architects Awards Application Checklist Apply Apply for Financial Aid Apply for a Job with Computer Resources Applying for Restricted Scholarships Araldo A. Cossutta Annual Prize for Design Excellence Architecture Architecture Core Prep Areas of Concentration Art, Design, and the Public Domain Art, Design, and the Public Domain – Required Courses 2018 Art, Design, and the Public Domain – Required Courses 2019 Attendance Augmented & Virtual Reality (AR/VR) Award Details Award for Excellence in Project-Based Urban Planning Award for Excellence in Urban Design Award for Outstanding Leadership in Urban Planning and Urban Design B Benefits & Perks Biking Borrowing Print Materials Building Services Business Cards for Students C COVID-19 Information for Staff COVID-19 Testing and Tracing CREATE for Alumni CREATE for Employers CREATE for Students Canvas Capital Improvements and Projects Career Paths by Program Career Resources for Alumni Career Services: Alumni Career Services: Employers Career Services: FAQs Career Services: Faculty Career Services: Students Career Services Offerings Career Services Video Library Careers Casual Conversations With GSD Alumni Change of Address Charles Abrams Scholarship Charles Eliot Traveling Fellowship in Landscape Architecture Chauhaus Classroom Equipment Classroom Technology Clifford Wong Prize in Housing Design Commencement 2022 Commencement Information Commencement for the Classes of 2020 and 2021 Communications Community Values, Rights, and Responsibilities Computer Accounts and Passwords Computer Labs Computer Recommendations Computer Requirements Computer Resources Group Concurrent and Joint Degrees Connecting to the File Server Connect with the GSD Contact Contact Admissions Contact Financial Aid Contact the GSD Cost Recovery Policy Course Catalog Course Descriptions Course Info Sessions and Videos Critical Conservation Critical Conservation – Required Courses 2018 Critical Conservation – Required Courses 2019 Cross-Registration Policies & Procedures Current MAUD/MLAUD Degree Requirements Current MUP Degree Requirements Curriculum Custodial Services D DDes & PhD Financial Aid DDes/PhD Open House Schedule DDes Guidelines for the Dissertation DDes Guidelines for the General Exam DDes Guidelines for the Prospectus DIB Annual Report DIB Programs Daniel L. Schodek Award for Technology and Sustainability Daniel Urban Kiley Teaching Fellowship in Landscape Architecture Dean’s Office Degree Checks Degree Programs Degree Requirements Policies Degree Verifications Design Computing at the GSD Design Labs Design Now: A Quarterly Podcast from Harvard’s Graduate School of Design Design Studies Thesis Prize Desktop 3D Printing Regulations Development and Alumni Relations Digital Delivery and Electronic Resources Digital Design Prize Digital Governance Policy Dimitris Pikionis Award Directions Diversity, Inclusion, & Belonging at Career Services Diversity, Inclusion, and Belonging Offerings Diversity, Inclusion, and Belonging Resources Diversity, Inclusion, and Belonging Doctoral Grader (Union Position) Doctoral Programs Doctor of Design Program (DDes) Doctor of Philosophy (PhD) Document Request Form Druker Traveling Fellowship E ETH Zurich Exchange Program Early Design Education Ecologies Eligibility Email Accounts Emergencies Employer Presentations Employers & Career Paths for Architecture Students Employers & Career Paths for Landscape Architecture Students Employers & Career Paths for MDE Students Employers & Career Paths for MDes and DDes Students Employers & Career Paths for Urban Planning and Design Students Endowed Fellowships & Financial Aid Funds Energy and Environment Energy and Environment – Required Courses 2017 Energy and Environment – Required Courses 2018 Energy and Environment – Required Courses 2019 Enrollment Certifications Enrollment Policies Environmental Health and Safety at the GSD Equipment for Classroom Instruction Equitable Accountability Ergonomics Event Audiovisual Support Event Participation for Alumni Event Planning for Faculty and Staff Event Planning for Students Events Events Archive Executive Education Exemptions, Waivers, and Substitutions for MUPs Exhibitions F FAQ FERPA Fabrication Laboratory Faculty Faculty: Collaborate With Career Services Faculty Affairs Office Faculty Directory Faculty Handbooks, Administrative Policies, and Guidelines for Instruction Faculty Research Federal Work-Study Information Fellowships, Funding Sources, and Internships for Students Fellowships, Prizes, & Travel Programs Fellowships, Prizes, & Travel Programs Fellowships, Prizes, & Travel Programs Fellowships, Prizes, & Travel Programs Ferdinand Colloredo-Mansfeld Prize for Superior Achievement in Real Estate Studies Final Review Schedule (Spring 2021 – M1, Full-term, M2) Finance Office Financial Aid Financial Aid Application Process for Current Students Financial Aid Application for Prospective Students Financial Aid FAQ Financial Aid Handbook Financial Aid and Satisfactory Progress Financial Matters First Meetings for Option Studios Flexwork at the GSD Frances Loeb Library Fulbright U.S. Student Program G GLACIER GSD-Courances Residency Program GSD Alumni Council Career Panels GSD Community Calendar GSD Consumer Information GSD Diversity Cabinet GSD Payroll Coordinators GSD Racial Equity and Anti-Racism Fund GSD Radio GSD Student Payroll GSD Web Style Gain Experience General Ledger Gifts & Grants Grading Grant Aid H Harvard-MIT Course Logistics Harvard GSD Job & Internship Fair 2022 Harvard Graduate School of Design Employer Recruiting Policies Harvard Graduate School of Design Fact Book Harvard ID Card Harvard International Office Harvard Shuttle and Van Service Harvard Travel Registry Health Services Heating/Cooling Schedule Help Desk Hiring Students: Information for Faculty History & Philosophy of Design – Required Courses 2018 History & Philosophy of Design – Required Courses 2019 History and Philosophy of Design and Media Home How To Plot How to Post an Event to GSD Now How to Write a Resume That Stands Out Human Resources Human Resources Forms & Policies Hybrid Classroom I IT Policies Income Processing Policy and Procedures Information for Current DDes Students Information for Current PhD Students Installing AEScript AfterEffects Plugin Installing Adobe’s Creative Cloud Software Installing ArcGis Installing AutoDesk Installing Cargo Installing Cinema 4D Installing ClimateStudio Installing DesignBuilder Installing Diva for Rhino Installing Flovent Installing GRANTA EduPack Installing Houdini Installing KeyShot Installing MasterCam Installing MathCAD Installing Miro Installing Modelo Installing Multiframe and MicroStation Installing Printers For Windows Installing Printers for Mac Installing Reality Capture Installing Render Services Installing Rhino Installing RhinoTerrain Installing RobotStudio Installing SketchUp Installing SolidWorks Installing VRay for 3DS Max Installing VRay for Rhino Installing Windows on a Mac Using Parallels International Financial Aid International Student Resources Interrogative Design: Selected Works of Krzysztof Wodiczko – Alien Staff Interrogative Design: Selected Works of Krzysztof Wodiczko – Bunker Hill Monument Projection Interrogative Design: Selected Works of Krzysztof Wodiczko – Dis-Armor Interrogative Design: Selected Works of Krzysztof Wodiczko – El Centro Cultural Projection Interrogative Design: Selected Works of Krzysztof Wodiczko – Hiroshima Projection Interrogative Design: Selected Works of Krzysztof Wodiczko – Homeless Vehicle Interrogative Design: Selected Works of Krzysztof Wodiczko – Loro Interrogative Design: Selected Works of Krzysztof Wodiczko – Personal Instrument Interrogative Design: Selected Works of Krzysztof Wodiczko – Poliscar Interrogative Design: Selected Works of Krzysztof Wodiczko – The Abraham Lincoln Monument Projection Interrogative Design: Selected Works of Krzysztof Wodiczko – The Admiral Farragut Monument Projection Interrogative Design: Selected Works of Krzysztof Wodiczko – The Central Library Projection Interrogative Design: Selected Works of Krzysztof Wodiczko – The City Hall Tower Projection Interrogative Design: Selected Works of Krzysztof Wodiczko – The Kunstmuseum Basel Projection Interrogative Design: Selected Works of Krzysztof Wodiczko – The New Mechelenians Interrogative Design: Selected Works of Krzysztof Wodiczko – The Real Estate Projection Interrogative Design: Selected Works of Krzysztof Wodiczko – Vehicle Irving Innovation Fellowship J J-Term Jacob Weidenman Prize James Templeton Kelley Prize Job Search Resources: Planning, Urban Design, Real Estate Julia Amory Appleton Traveling Fellowship in Architecture K KPF Traveling Fellowship Kevin V. Kieran Prize Key Requests L Landscape Architecture Landscape Architecture Faculty Office Hours Landscape Architecture Thesis Prize Leave of Absence Leaves/Withdrawals and Tuition Charges Library Access & Borrowing Library Liaisons Library Resources & Services Library Resources for Alumni and Visitors Library Staff Life at the GSD Limited-Enrollment Lottery LinkedIn Learning @ Harvard Live Course Presentations Living Guidebook to Virtual Teaching and Learning Living in Cambridge Loan Deferments Loeb Fellowship M MAUD/MLAUD Degree Requirements MAUD/MLAUD Student Work MArch Course Waiver and Substitution Policy and Procedures MArch Distributional Electives MArch Financial Aid MArch I AP Required Courses MArch II Required Courses MArch I Required Courses MArch Open House Schedule MArch Split Option MArch Thesis Program MDE Open House Schedule MDes Financial Aid MDes Open House Schedule MDes Research and Development Award MDes Technology MLA Degree Requirements MLA Financial Aid MLA Open House Schedule MLA Thesis Guidelines MLA Waivers and Substitutions MUP & MAUD Financial Aid MUP Degree Requirements MUP Outreach Mail Center Mail Policy Master in Architecture I Master in Architecture II Master in Design Engineering Master in Design Studies (MDes) Master in Design Studies (MDes) Pre-Fall 2021 Master in Landscape Architecture I Master in Landscape Architecture I AP Master in Landscape Architecture II Master in Real Estate Master in Urban Planning Master in Urban Planning and Juris Doctor Master in Urban Planning and Master in Public Administration Master in Urban Planning and Master in Public Health Master in Urban Planning and Master in Public Policy Meditation Room Mediums Microsoft Teams Mindfulness, Stress Reduction, & Time Management N NAAB Accreditation Information and Resources Narratives News News Archive Newsletter Nondiscrimination Policy Norman T. Newton Prize O Obtaining a MA State ID Card Office Hour Signup Tools Office Updates Office for Urbanization Office of Career Services Office of Student Affairs Online Registration (my.Harvard) Online Teaching Resources Open Access Policy Open Faculty Positions Open House Open Non-Faculty Academic Positions Opportunities to Recruit GSD Students Option Studio Lottery Spring 2022 Option Studio Presentations Organizational Charts Orientation and Registration for Incoming Students Other Courses of Interest Other J-Term Opportunities Outside Scholarships Outstanding Leadership in Real Estate Award P Page Lists Shortcodes Parking Participate in the Summer Community Service Fellowship Program Paul M. Heffernan International Travel Award Paying for Your Program Payroll Penny White Project Fund Performance Management Performance Management Permanent Records Personnel Manuals Person of Interest (POI) Peter Rice Internship Program at Renzo Piano Building Workshop Peter Rice Prize Peter Walker and Partners Fellowship for Landscape Architecture PhD Student Bios Photo Lab Photography Guidelines Planning Newsletter Plimpton-Poorvu Design Prize Podcasts Policy on Personal Conduct Pollman Fellowship in Real Estate and Urban Development Pre-orientation for New Students Printing Costs Printing Guide Printing Tips and Known Issues Prize for Academic Excellence in Urban Planning and Urban Design Program History Program Pedagogy Projects Protected: Poster Presentations for CSFP Fellows Public Programs Publications Publics Purchases & Expenses R REA Fund Recipients Rafael Moneo Rome Travel Award Real Estate and the Built Environment Real Estate and the Built Environment – Required Courses 2017 Real Estate and the Built Environment – Required Courses 2018 Real Estate and the Built Environment – Required Courses 2019 Recent DDes Graduates Recent PhD graduates Recommended Backgrounds for Option Studios Recycling, Freecycling and Composting Refunds Registrar Registration Registration Procedures Replacement Diplomas Request Update to Profile Photo Requesting a GSD Subsite Requirements 2017-18 Requirements 2018-19 Research Research Administration Research Administration Resources Research Assistant (Union Position) Research Centers & Programs Research Fellow (Union Position) Research Programs & Initiatives Research Reports & Publications Resource Center Resources for New Graduates Resources for Partners and Families Respectful and Transparent Engagement Return to Campus & Technology Richard Rogers Fellowship Risk and Resilience Risk and Resilience – Required Courses 2018 Risk and Resilience – Required Courses 2019 Robert A. M. Stern Architects (RAMSA) Room Reservations S Safety, Health, and Wellbeing Sample Job Posting #1 Sample Job Posting #2 Scanners Scholarships for International Students Scholarships for US Citizens and Eligible Non-citizens Seating Charts and Assigned Seating Security Shift Schedule Social Media Social Media Special Collections Special Interest Links for Architecture Students Spiritual Life Spring 2021 Final Exam Schedule Spring 2021 Thesis Review Schedule Spring 2022 Final Exam Schedule Spring 2022 Final Review Schedule Staff Awards & Recognition Staff Directory Staff Newsletter Staff Printing Stationery and Branding Student & Alumni Events Student Academic Affairs Committee Student Directory Student Employment Student Forum Student Forum Open ZOOM Room Student Group Directory Student Group Guide Student Policies Student Records and Transcript Policies Student Travel Information and Costs for Option Studios Students on Leave of Absence Studio Abroad Studio Culture Policy Studio Electricity Summer Peer-Learning Sessions Sustainability at the GSD T Takenaka Summer Internship Talking Practice Tax Resources Teaching Assistant & Research Assistant: Faculty Resources Teaching Assistant (Union Position) Teaching Fellow (Union Position) Technical and Administrative Positions (Non-union Positions) Technology Guide Technology – Required Courses 2018 Technology – Required Courses 2019 Telephones Term Bill The Office of Diversity, Inclusion, and Belonging Title IX Tokyo Summer Workshop Topics Transcripts Transportation Travel Safety and Guidelines Traveling Fellowships Tuition Tuition and Financial Aid U UPD Faculty Office Hours UPD Thesis Guidelines Undergraduate Architecture Studies University Policies & Procedures Updating Staff Profile Photos Urban Design Faculty Profiles Urban Planning and Design Urban Planning and Design Open House Schedule Urban Planning and Design Thesis Prize Urban Planning and Public Policy Urbanism, Landscape, Ecology Urbanism, Landscape, Ecology – Required Courses 2018 Urbanism, Landscape, Ecology – Required Courses 2019 Utilizing LinkedIn V VPN Service Veronica Rudge Green Prize in Urban Design Veteran and Military Benefits Virtual & On-Campus Events W Web: Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs) Web Editing: Media Web Profile Photos Wellness Resources Wheelwright Prize Who We Are Work Opportunities for Students Work Order Request Form Workshops and Personal Development 2 2020 Oct Iframe test 2021-2022 Academic Year Planning 2022 Application FAQs 2022 J-Term Courses Submit Search Resource Center Fellowships, Funding Sources, and Internships for Students Harvard Fellowships/Funding Sources and Internships Harvard University offers a wide range of funding opportunities for students. Some fellowships offer a full time work experience; grants and fellowships may also offer funding to help Harvard students to travel and conduct research overseas. The goal of these funding sources is to extend the academic experience beyond the classroom setting. CARAT Database for Grants and Fellowships CARAT offers students a single, easy-to-navigate database for grants and fellowships appropriate to graduate and postdoctoral students. Students can search and sort opportunities by program duration, purpose, academic area, and travel area: http://tinyurl.com/y8j882v3 Examples include: Joint Center for Housing Studies of Harvard University – Fellowships, Research Grants, & Prizes Joint Center for Housing Studies’ Gramlich Summer Fellowship in Community and Economic Development Joint Center for Housing Studies’ Thesis Travel and Research Grants for GSD Masters Degree Students The GSD Student Conference Attendance Fund The GSD Student Conference Attendance Fund, administered by Student Forum, supports GSD students in attending conferences relevant to their research interests and/or coursework. Preference in determining funding is given to students who are speaking, presenting, facilitating workshops, or accepting awards at the events they seek to attend. Funding is given to students representing as broad a range of GSD academic programs as possible. Applicants to the GSD Student Conference Attendance Fund should be matriculated at the GSD in the semester in which they wish to travel, or, if seeking funds for a summer conference, returning to the GSD in the fall. In general, a student will only receive support from this fund once during the course of their GSD career. Piloted by Student Forum in 2016-17, the fund is now generously supported by the Dean, the Dean of Students, and the Alumni Relations office. Funding decisions are made by a student committee led by the Student Forum Professional Development Chair, with oversight from Student Affairs staff. Generally applications received far exceed the amount of funds available to award. Funding takes place in two rounds, one at the start of each semester. Application procedures and deadlines are posted to the student email announcement list. Please note that the fund is generally not able to consider late applications. Grants are awarded up to $500 per student. Students who are awarded funds commit to providing a short written report upon their return from the event. The funding is awarded to cover travel between cities, lodging, and conference registration expenses related to the proposed conference. Incidentals such as cabs and meals are not covered. Funding is dispensed solely as a reimbursement for actual expenses paid, and is distributed upon submission of receipts. Awarded funds may not be transferred from one conference to another without prior written approval from the Student Forum Professional Development Chair, which should be obtained before purchases are made. DDes students will only be eligible for the GSD Student Conference Fund if they have not yet both passed their general exam and defended their prospectus. After meeting both of these milestones, DDes students become eligible to seek funding through the Advanced Studies Program. DDes students should note that ASP funding has additional requirements and separate application procedures; questions should be directed to the Advanced Studies Program office. PhD students are matriculated at GSAS and are not eligible for the GSD Student Conference Fund. GSAS and its Graduate Student Council have funds for which PhD students can apply. Additionally, the GSD Advanced Studies Program office has some funding available for PhD students not yet eligible for those GSAS funds. Please inquire directly with the ASP office. Students apply to the conference fund through an online application, which is announced over schoolwide email. As a special note for Fall 2020, this semester’s conference attendance fund will support registration for virtual conference attendance only, per Harvard’s policies around travel during the coronavirus pandemic. The Penny White Project Fund The Fund annually awards up to $50,000 in project funding for research proposals submitted by students at the GSD. The Call is open to all students across the Graduate School of Design, including collaborations across programs and disciplines—from graduate, postgraduate, and doctoral. In addition to the strong tradition of fieldwork, case research, and experimental intervention, the Fund will focus on and welcome projects that engage and advance the agency of landscape as activist, collaborative, and participatory medium. The deadline for the receipt of the proposals is typically in early January each year. For more information on eligibility please visit www.gsd.harvard.edu/pennywhite or contact the Department of Landscape Architecture (landscapearchitecture@gsd.harvard.edu). Travel and Research Grants for Housing-Related Masters Theses The Joint Center for Housing Studies is offering grants that will help offset travel and other research-related expenses for GSD students writing a master’s thesis on a topic related to housing or community development The deadline is typically mid-November via Harvard’s CARAT system Contact: James Chaknis, the Joint Center’s Communications and Outreach Coordinator at james_chaknis@harvard.edu. Edward M. Gramlich Fellowship in Community and Economic Development The Edward M. Gramlich Fellowship in Community and Economic Development is co-sponsored by NeighborWorks America and the Joint Center for Housing Studies (JCHS). The program provides graduate level Harvard University students the opportunity to spend a summer on an analytical project suitable for publication as a working paper, while working directly with Joint Center faculty and NeighborWorks staff. Students will have the opportunity to present their research in Washington, D.C. at a policy briefing arranged by the Joint Center. Apply through CARAT. Rappaport Institute Public Policy Summer Fellowship The Rappaport Institute for Greater Boston encourages graduate students to spend part of their careers in public service through a paid, 10-week summer internship in key state and local agencies in the Greater Boston area. Fellows, who represent all graduate schools in Greater Boston, participate in a weekly seminar series with leading practitioners and scholars. Stipend: $7,000 Deadline: Typically mid-January every year Contact: Polly O’Brien Presidential Public Service Fellowships Harvard University President Drew Faust, with the generous support of an anonymous donor, has established the Presidential Public Service Fellowship Program to provide funding to students interested in pursuing public service work during the summer. Ten fellowships are awarded on a competitive basis each year to a cohort of undergraduate and graduate students participating in a broad range of activities, including government and community service, non-governmental organization and non-profit work, and innovative projects that serve the common good. Stipend: $8,000 Deadline: Typically early February every year Contact: pres_fellowships@harvard.edu Harvard Kennedy School Ash Center Student Initiatives and Independent Study HKS Indonesia Student Research Grants The HKS Indonesia Program offers student research grants to Harvard University students to support independent research or other forms of study conducted in Indonesia. Such grants allow students to compete for grant assistance for their independent projects in Indonesia. GSD students have been awarded grants in the past. Award: Variable, based on expenses Deadline: Early April; Annually at the end of October for J Term Contact: Trisiawati Bantacut Ash Center China Programs Student Research Grants The China Programs encourage and assist students with an interest in China from Harvard Kennedy School and from across Harvard University by supporting internships, independent research, and other forms of study conducted in China. Award: Varies Deadline: Annually at the end of October for JTerm Contact : Laura Ma David Rockefeller Center for Latin American Studies (DRCLAS) Travel Grants Program Apply through CARAT. Term-Time Research Travel Grants Supports undergraduate and graduate students completing final stage thesis, dissertation or thesis-equivalent research, related to Latin America and the Caribbean that requires travel during the academic year (winter break). Research proposals are accepted from all disciplines, but must be directly related to the region. Award: Varies Summer Research Travel Grants Supports undergraduate and graduate or professional students conducting research related to Latin America and the Caribbean. Research proposals are accepted from all disciplines, but must be directly related to the region. Preference is given to advanced students conducting thesis or dissertation research. Award: Varies Deadline for Graduate Students: Typically Mid-February each year Conference Travel Grants Grants of up to $300 per year are available to graduate students traveling to conferences to present papers on Latin America. Award: Up to $300 Deadline for Graduate Students: 1st of every month until funds last. Students are requested to submit applications at least one month before conference date. DRCLAS contact: Lorena Gonzalez The South Asia Initiative Graduate Funding Opportunities Apply through CARAT. Graduate students from across Harvard University are welcome to apply for South Asia Initiative (SAI) internship and research grants. Students must be continuing at Harvard the following academic year. These internships should be a minimum of 8 weeks. Preference is given for funding for an internship at a SAI partnered organizations. SAI grants are available to Harvard Graduate Students across all disciplines for three opportunities. Explore Language Study Grants, Research Grants, and Internship Grants. Additionally, the Seed for Change Fund will develop a vibrant ecosystem for innovation and entrepreneurship in India through an annual competition run by the Harvard University South Asia Institute (SAI), in which grant prizes will be awarded to interdisciplinary student projects that positively impact societal, economic, and environmental issues in India. January Term funding is also available. GSD students were among the 2014 SAI Winter Session Grant Recipients. Awards: Vary Deadlines: Typically mid-February each year Contact: Nora Maginn Center for African Studies Graduate Student Grants and Fellowships Apply through CARAT. The Harvard University Center for African Studies offers funding to Harvard graduate students traveling to Africa for thesis research, internships, or study abroad. Grants require a minimum stay of eight weeks in Africa. January Term grants for a stay of three weeks are also available. Award: Cost of round-trip travel and a modest stipend Deadline: Typically mid-February each year Contact: Center for African Studies Additional Travel Fellowships and Travel Funding Resources Hart Howerton Fellowship (Urban Planning, Landscape Architecure & Architecture) Each summer, Fellowships allow the firm to employ several students in planning, architecture and/or landscape architecture under a single program, mirroring our firm’s dedication to the working integration of those disciplines in how and what we design. The Fellowship also provides a component of funded travel for research on a topic that each Fellow selects. As a result of the Fellowships, schools have had the ability to graduate students with the added advantages of professional office experience, collaborative, interdisciplinary design, and worldwide travel and research. Locations in San Francisco and New York. Deadline: Typically in early January each year Compensation: $10,000 Compensation for the 11-week Fellowship office internship and travel period / $5,000 to cover travel expenses during the 3-week travel period / $2,500 for housing assistance in New York or San Francisco during the 8-week Fellowship / Round trip travel to SF or NY at start/end of the program Eligibility: Available to undergraduate and graduate students in planning, architecture, landscape architecture or urban design who will be entering their final year of study in September 2018 Contact: fellowship@harthowerton.com National Fellowship / Internship Opportunities of Special Interest to Planning Students Chicago Mayor’s Fellowship The Mayor’s Office Fellowship Program is a wonderful opportunity for graduate students in any concentration who will be enrolled during the summer and are interested in local government and public policy. Fellows have the opportunity to learn about municipal government and participate in a unique, hands-on experience in the development of new policy and program initiatives. Participants research policies and evaluate their potential benefit to Chicago, draft memoranda for Mayor’s Office senior staff on upcoming issues and new initiatives, and participate in a variety of talks and tours that provide insight into how City government operates. Selection Process Each year, the Mayor’s Office participates in the two-step application process. Prospective Fellows should visit www.cityofchicago.org/mayorfellowship to begin the application process. Initial applications will be screened for qualification; the deadline to apply is in early November. Applicants who are selected to move on to the Second Step of the application process will need to submit a written response to a policy problem and a personal statement to the Mayor’s Office directly. Applicants who reach the Second Step will also be interviewed and based upon the results of the interview process and written documents, a final selection of fellows will be made. Candidates are selected on a nationwide basis from public and private colleges and universities and must be current students. Fellows are not classified as full-time employees. Residency in the City of Chicago is required upon starting the fellowship program. Relocation is at the applicant’s expense. Fellows are paid at a rate of $20 per hour. International students must have an F-1 Student Visa and must be a full-time student. For further information, please contact Margaret Gach, Director of the Fellowship Program at 312-744-5855 or margaret.gach@cityofchicago.org San Francisco Planning Department Internships The San Francisco Planning Department seeks Planning Interns to work with Planning Staff on a variety of planning projects. Specific internships vary as needed and are not yet announced. Typically three paid and eight unpaid internships. No information is available yet for 2019. URL for 2018 : https://dpla.wisc.edu/career/jobboard/san-francisco-planning-department-summer-2018-internship-program Applications are due mid-February each year. Compensation: $26.25 per hour, 40 hours per week Contact: CPC.InternshipProgram@sfgov.org Education Pioneers Graduate School Fellowship Summer Fellowship connects Fellows with a high-impact placement opportunity at a leading education organization, where you can drive critical work on a defined project over 10 consecutive weeks. Program: Early June to August Application Due: mid-December for priority round, mid-February for final round Stipend: $7,200 Contact: recruiting@educationpioneers.org New York City Department of City Planning Summer Internship Program The NYC Department of City Planning (DCP) is responsible for New York City’s physical and socioeconomic planning, including land use and environmental review; preparation of plans and policies; and provision of technical assistance and planning information to government agencies, public officials, and community boards. The Department seeks talented undergraduate and graduate students with a focus on planning, urban design, technology or related fields for summer internships. Interns may work in the borough planning offices as well as in functional planning departments including Transportation, GIS/Internet Technology, Strategic Planning, Planning Coordination, Zoning and Urban Design, Land Use Review and Technical Review. Stipend: Some internships are unpaid (students are eligible to apply for Community Service Fellowship (CSFP) funding) Deadline: TBD Contact: dcprecruit@planning.nyc.gov URL: http://www1.nyc.gov/site/planning/about/employment-opportunities.page 2019 Summer Program Information is not yet available. Compensation: Compensation ranges are determined by the individual agencies. Some internship positions are unpaid and some offer volunteer, work study, or academic credit for work experience at their agency. Others may provide a ‘Travel Stipend’ for participants with the program. Please refer to the specific internship description for details. New York City Urban Fellows Program The Urban Fellows Program is sponsored by The City of New York and administered by the Department of Citywide Administrative Services (DCAS). The program is designed to introduce America’s finest college students and graduates to local government and public service. URL: http://www.nyc.gov/html/dcas/html/work/program_info.shtml Program: 9 months from September to May Compensation: a stipend of $30,000 (health insurance excluding dental and vision is included) Application Deadline: mid-January each year Eligibility: Receive(d) their bachelor’s degree prior to the start of the Fellowship (Eligibility is not based on when you achieved your Master’s Degree) NYC Department of Citywide Administrative Services (212)-386-0058 or email us via the form. Phillip D. Peters Regional Planning Fellowship Program In conjunction with the Chicago Metropolitan Agency for Planning (CMAP), this Chicago, IL Fellowship is awarded annually each spring to a qualified graduate student in a field related to regional planning. The objective is to open the Fellowship to a broad range of applicants representative of the full scope of regional planning. A three-month/400-hour work experience at CMAP is provided under the guidance and mentoring of a senior staff member. Information for 2019 is not available yet. URL for 2018 Information: http://www.cmap.illinois.gov/documents/10180/0/Phillip+D+Peters+Fellowship+Announcement+2018+Revised+%282%29.pdf/79e3c0a9-b2d4-407e-daec-f5942fbb4599 Deadline: Annually in February Compensation: $18.00 per hour Contact: Yesenia Ambriz at 312-386-8660 or yambriz@cmap.illinois.gov Federal Highway Administration The Federal Highway Administration (FHWA) is part of the United States Department of Transportation and is headquartered in Washington, D.C., with field offices across the United States. We pursue excellence in all our endeavors. As pioneers and innovators in cutting-edge highway technologies, we provide leadership, in cooperation with our partners, to enhance the country’s economic vitality, quality of life, and environment. The FHWA Internship Program is designed to provide students enrolled in a wide variety of educational institutions with opportunities to work in agencies and explore Federal careers while still in school and while getting paid for the work performed. Students who successfully complete the program may be eligible for conversion to a permanent job in the civil service. Additional information about the Internship Program can be found at www.usajobs.gov/studentsandgrads/. The FHWA Professional Development Program (PDP) is an entry-level career development program that provides an excellent opportunity to begin your professional career with the FHWA. There are exceptional careers for talented people at FHWA. We hire the best, the brightest, and the most committed people to help us carry out our mission. FHWA is looking for exceptional college graduates with a bachelors or masters degree for the PDP in a variety of disciplines. https://www.fhwa.dot.gov/careers/ HUD Student Interns Program The U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) Interns Program was created with you in mind. HUD is always interested in finding talented people who have the skills needed to meet our future employment needs. Through a variety of programs, the HUD Intern Program is designed to help recruit and attract exceptional individuals to a broad spectrum of occupations within HUD. The program offers interns professional experiences and formal training opportunities that are tailored to meet their educational and professional goals and interests. View current student opportunities. Stipend: Varies; Paid & Unpaid Deadline: Varies Summer Transportation Internship Program for Diverse Groups (STIPDG) The Summer Transportation Internship Program for Diverse Groups (STIPDG) provides a unique opportunity to gain valuable professional experience and skills that will complement your academic pursuits. This hands-on program is designed to mentor and cultivate tomorrow’s leaders, strengthen their understanding of the transportation industry and prepare them for future public service opportunities. The STIPDG is a paid internship program open to all qualified candidates without regard to their race, gender, color, religion, sexual orientation or age. Applicants must be U.S. Citizens. The STIPDG accepts students from any and all academic majors. Internship Period: June – August Application Deadline: Mid-January each year Compensation: Stipend not-to-exceed $5,000 Greenlining Summer Associates Program The Academy Summer Associate Program is an intensive, 10-week development program for young leaders who have completed, at minimum, their undergraduate degrees by the start of the program. Associates learn about issues impacting California and the nation and manage research and advocacy projects under the direction of a Greenlining staff member. The learning environment is based on combining experiential learning opportunities, individual development and team participation. Each Summer Associate experience is unique and is shaped by the current policy focus of their program area. Associates present their findings and projects in both a written and oral report at the end of the program. Compensation: $5500 total stipend Eligibility: Completed undergraduate degree by program start date Application opens in mid-November. Prev Next Close Slideshow Back to top Harvard University Graduate School of Design © 2022 President and Fellows of Harvard College Privacy Accessibility Digital Accessibility Maps Contact COVID-19 GSD API Facebook Twitter YouTube LinkedIn Instagram Sign up to receive news and information about upcoming events, exhibitions, and more. Email* Δ Version 1.11.26