Skip To Main Content Iowa State Recreation Services Search the website Open Search Box View our Facebook View our Twitter View our Instagram View our Youtube Channel Open Mobile Menu View our Facebook View our Twitter View our Instagram View our Youtube Channel Search the website Open Search Box Fitness 811495 Fitness for Everybody Whether you’re a beginner or a veteran, Recreation Services offers you a way to improve or maintain your fitness. Fitness classes with variable intensities ensure that there’s a class for you no matter your experience level. Personal training offers you a one-on-one experience that suits your individual needs. Fitness Classes Anybody with an active membership can attend a fitness class so long as they reserve their spot on the Fitness Classes page. Classes are held during the Spring, Summer and Fall semesters. To reserve your spot in any of our classes click on the red box to the right that says, “Register for Fitness Classes.” Personal Training If you prefer a one-on-one experience, we offer personal training for members. One of our 50 personal trainers will work with you to develop a workout specialized for you. All personal trainers have completed a semester in-house training program and are qualified to help you reach your goals. Fitness on Demand Want to workout along with your favorite Iowa State Fitness Student Instructors from the comfort of your home? Try our subscription streaming service: Fitness on Demand. Click here for a free 6 video preview! Fitness On Demand Fitness classes: Anytime, Anywhere Fitness Classes Dozens of options. Your fitness. Your way. Register for any of our dozens of fitness classes lead by our fantastic instructors! Personal Training Don't wait, get started! Schedule an appointment with a personal trainer to get started on your fitness journey TODAY! Featured Videos Close Video Iowa State University 1180 State Gym 2642 Union Dr. Ames, IA 50011-2029 E. recservices@iastate.edu P. 515.294.4980 Copyright © 1995-2022, Iowa State University of Science and Technology. All rights reserved. Non‑discrimination Policy