Skip navigation Information For: Current Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Brown University Brown Grad School About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life A to Z Index People Directory Graduate School Campus Culture Graduate students make up a quarter of Brown’s student population. Learn about our culture, distinctive opportunities, and academic programs. Read about initiatives in doctoral education and support. Leadership Andrew G. Campbell, the 15th dean of the Graduate School: We are deeply committed to the work of broadening participation in higher education and creating a more diverse and inclusive scholarly community. GradCON 2019 More than 30 alumni shared insights at GradCON 2019. “Reach out to researchers to learn about their experiences and career paths; talk to people with a variety of titles. Gain strong communication skills in conveying complex research to non-technical audiences by taking opportunities to teach, give talks and write," says Anna Hartley ’13 PhD, Senior Research Scientist, Amazon. Research Matters! Twelve graduate students explained the importance of their research at the Graduate School’s fourth Research Matters event. Topics ranged from oceans on Mars to creating privacy-preserving tools for blockchain. Read more. Orientation 2019 Welcome! The Graduate School's incoming class of almost 800 students enjoyed sessions on thriving at Brown, gender inclusion, advising, wellness, professional development opportunities, as well as a resource fair and campus tours. Skip to Navigation News and Announcements Cadence Lee Recognized with an Outstanding Academic Accomplishment Award Each year, Brown University presents an award to a master’s student who demonstrates outstanding academic accomplishment. Past recipients have represented a wide-array of exceptional students, and this year is no different. Cadence Lee ’21 Sc.M., will be honored with the Brown Academic Accomplishment Award for her outstanding contributions during her time in the master of science in biotechnology (Sc.M.) program. Dr. Maheen Mausoof Adamson ‘22 Sc.M. Wins Professional Excellence Award The Brown University Master’s Award for Professional Excellence recognizes a Brown University master’s student whose outstanding contributions have influenced or contributed to the field or profession. This year’s recipient is Dr. Maheen Mausoof Adamson ’22 Sc.M., a graduate of the master’s in healthcare leadership program at the School of Professional Studies at Brown University. This award recognizes Adamson’s notable accomplishments during the master’s in healthcare leadership program, including her work on the Critical Challenge Project. Kevin Boyce Selected for the Master’s Award for Engaged Citizenship Service to the community, the nation and the world is embedded in the fabric of Brown University. That’s why each year, the institution honors a master’s student with the Master’s Award for Engaged Citizenship and Community Service. The 2022 awardee is Kevin Boyce ’22 MPA, a service minded, unapologetic justice oriented, and thoughtful student leader. He is being honored for his incredible commitment and dedication to creating a more inclusive community at Brown University, particularly for students of color. Astrophysicist Brian G. Keating ‘95 Sc.M., ’00 Ph.D. Selected for Horace Mann Medal The 2022 Horace Mann Medal is awarded to Brian G. Keating, the Chancellor’s Distinguished Professor of Physics at UC San Diego's Center for Astrophysics and Space Sciences. The Medal is awarded at Commencement to a Brown University Graduate School alum who has made significant contributions in their field. Join us on Saturday, May 28 at 12:30 pm at 85 Waterman Street for his forum presentation, Think Like Galileo Galilei: How to Remain Relevant for Half a Millennium. More News > Home About the Graduate School Healthy Brown FAQs for Graduate Students Academics & Research Living & Resources Financing & Support Admitted Students & Orientation Application Information For Graduate Students For Faculty and Staff Apply Fields of study Africana Studies American Studies Anthropology Applied Mathematics Archaeology and the Ancient World Behavioral and Social Health Sciences BioMed: Biology BioMed: Biotechnology BioMed: Ecology, Evolution, and Organismal Biology BioMed: Molecular Biology, Cell Biology, and Biochemistry BioMed: Molecular Pharmacology and Physiology BioMed: Neuroscience BioMed: Pathobiology Biomedical Engineering Biostatistics Brain Science Chemistry Classics Cognitive Science Comparative Literature Computational Biology Computer Science Earth, Environmental and Planetary Sciences Economics Egyptology and Assyriology Engineering English Epidemiology French and Francophone Studies German Studies Health Services Research Hispanic Studies History History of Art and Architecture Italian Studies Linguistics Mathematics Modern Culture and Media Music and Multimedia Composition Musicology and Ethnomusicology Philosophy Physics Political Science Portuguese and Brazilian Studies Psychology Religious Studies Slavic Studies Sociology Theatre Arts and Performance Studies American Studies BioMed: Biotechnology Biomedical Engineering Biostatistics Clinical and Translational Research Computer Science Cybersecurity Data Science Education: Master of Arts in Teaching Education: Urban Education Policy Engineering Healthcare Leadership IE Brown Executive MBA Innovation Management and Entrepreneurship Integrative Studies Literary Arts Medical Physics Medical Sciences Physics Public Affairs Public Health Public Health & Public Affairs (dual degree) Public Humanities Social Analysis and Research Technology Leadership Theatre Arts and Performance Studies Theatre: Brown/Trinity Rep Acting & Directing Clinical and Translational Research View List of Programs Brown University Brown University Graduate School Box 1867 Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-2600 Maps & Directions / Contact Us / Accessibility © 2022 Brown University Resources Graduate School Handbook Academic Code CareerLAB Brown University Writing Center Sarah Doyle Center for Women and Gender Sheridan Center for Teaching & Learning Top Destinations Admission Inquiry Form Commencement Five-Year Ph.D. Support Open Graduate Education External Funding Application Process International Applicants