Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. UC News UC News right arrow down arrow UC News Search Topics right arrow down arrow UC Answers #UCtheGood In The News Arts & Culture Science & Tech International Athletics Health College Bound Impact right arrow down arrow #UCtheGood Insights Diversity Experience-Based Learning Next Lives Here Bicentennial COVID-19 Student Experience Colleges right arrow down arrow College of Allied Health Sciences College of Arts & Sciences College of Business Blue Ash College Clermont College College-Conservatory of Music College of Design, Architecture, Art, and Planning College of Education, Criminal Justice, & Human Services College of Engineering and Applied Science Graduate School College of Law College of Medicine College of Nursing College of Pharmacy Units right arrow down arrow Academic Health Center Admissions Alumni Association Board of Trustees Campus Services Equity and Inclusion Hoxworth Human Resources IT@UC Libraries Office of Innovation Office of Research President's Office Provost Public Safety Student Affairs UC Foundation Veteran's Affairs Continuing Education Media Contacts Featured News 4 benefits of hiring a co-op student While cooperative education has a range of proven benefits for college students, hiring a co-op student also provides advantages for employers and businesses. Co-op launched UC alumnus’ Intel career May 3, 2022 Intel vice president James Breisch got his start in computer engineering through UC's top-ranked co-op program. UC makes connections to key players in the theme park industry May 4, 2022 For Andrew Holcroft Disney World had always been a place for family memories and entertainment as a youth. But he entered high school he seriously began to think about fields of study, careers and if he could do more than just visit theme parks. Maybe he could be part of a team creating or enhancing a theme park. As a a fourth-year industrial design student at the University of Cincinnati he's exploring that option. Query for this Latest News Keyword topics Select topics Answers Arts & Culture Athletics Bicentennial College bound COVID-19 Diversity Entrepreneurship Experience-based Learning Faculty Staff Health Impact In The News Insights International Must Read Next Lives Here Science & Tech Student Experience Thought Leadership colleges Select colleges College of Arts and Sciences Blue Ash College College of Allied Health Sciences College-Conservatory of Music College of Engineering and Applied Science College of Education, Criminal Justice, & Human Services Clermont College Lindner College of Business College of Design, Architecture, Art, and Planning Graduate School College of Law College of Medicine College of Nursing Online College of Pharmacy Clear All Filters {{facet.display}} remove {{facet.display}} remove {{facet.display}} remove {{facet.display}} remove How to give a hippo an ultrasound May 26, 2022 University of Cincinnati master's student Julie Barnes works as a veterinarian at the Cincinnati Zoo & Botanical Garden where she recently performed an ultrasound on a hippo. DAAP grad Lee Wilger lands job at Relativity Textiles in... May 26, 2022 Relativity Textiles offers co-op experiences for DAAP students, and Lee Wilger is returning there as an employee. Construction Brothers Podcast: Be a builder, not a broker May 23, 2022 Tim Steigerwald, president of Messer Construction, spoke with the host of Construction Brothers Podcast about improvements in the construction industry and the growing role of co-op. Stegerwald called out UC’s role in co-op, the university is ranked in the top four of schools providing co-op experiences for students nationally. CPS grad finds ‘UC makes dreams come true’ May 19, 2022 Benya Colleman is one of 10 students who has been awarded the University of Cincinnati’s Marian Spencer Scholarship created to recognize high-achieving students in Cincinnati Public Schools (CPS). UC exchange student shoots for the stars May 16, 2022 Paula Vulić, a master’s student in astrophysics from the University of Zagreb in Croatia set her sights high during an internship exchange semester this spring at the University of Cincinnati. UC co-op medalist thrives in NASA internships May 10, 2022 University of Cincinnati student Anna Lanzillotta dreamed of working as an engineer in the aerospace and aviation industry. Now, Lanzillotta is graduating with an electrical engineering degree, experience working at NASA for four cooperative education jobs, and a full-time job in the aerospace industry. Lanzillotta was selected for the 2022 Herman Schneider Medal, which is awarded annually to a graduating senior in UC’s College of Engineering and Applied Science for distinction as an exemplary co-op student who has taken full advantage of the unique opportunities of cooperative education. UC leads demonstration project to improve Ohio streams May 4, 2022 Biologists at the University of Cincinnati are studying low-cost ways to improve water quality and wildlife habitat in Greater Cincinnati’s creeks. UC biologists Stephen Matter and Michael Booth are examining whether water quality and wildlife habitat can be improved simply by adding logs and branches in select parts of the upper Cooper Creek. The addition of fallen timber could help slow periodic floodwaters, create more standing pools for fish during droughts and add nutrients for plants and fungus that support other aquatic life, researchers said. UC makes connections to key players in the theme park industry May 4, 2022 For Andrew Holcroft Disney World had always been a place for family memories and entertainment as a youth. But he entered high school he seriously began to think about fields of study, careers and if he could do more than just visit theme parks. Maybe he could be part of a team creating or enhancing a theme park. As a a fourth-year industrial design student at the University of Cincinnati he's exploring that option. Co-op launched UC alumnus’ Intel career May 3, 2022 Intel vice president James Breisch got his start in computer engineering through UC's top-ranked co-op program. WLWT: UC graduates largest class ever May 2, 2022 UC celebrates largest graduating class in its 200-year history in two-day commencement. WATCH: CCM’s production of Mozart’s ‘The Marriage of Figaro’ is... April 27, 2022 CCM’s recent production of "The Marriage of Figaro" (Le nozze di Figaro, 1786) is now available for on-demand viewing as part of the CCMONSTAGE Online Archives series. This iconic opera, which was composed by Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart with libretto by Lorenzo Da Ponte, was originally performed live in Corbett Auditorium on Saturday, Nov. 20, 2021. Stream both parts of the opera below. UC business graduate continues to offer financial education April 26, 2022 University of Cincinnati alumnus John Eringman, who offers financial education to millions of people on TikTok, is continuing to reach new audiences. UC to celebrate record-breaking class at spring commencement April 25, 2022 The University of Cincinnati will recognize a record 7,080 graduates at its spring commencement during four ceremonies on Friday and Saturday at Fifth Third Arena. CCM competes in Jazz at Lincoln Center's Jack Rudin Jazz... April 25, 2022 The University of Cincinnati College-Conservatory of Music Jazz program will compete in the Jazz at Lincoln Center's Jack Rudin Jazz Championship in early 2022. UC student used co-op to make connections, discover what a... April 21, 2022 Now a fourth-year student, Mackenzie Maisel says her decision to attend the University of Cincinnati was in part based on the importance the College of Design, Architecture, Art, and Planning placed on students participating in co-op experiences. Load More Debug Query for this University of Cincinnati 2600 Clifton Ave. Cincinnati, OH 45220 513-556-0000 UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati University of Cincinnati 2600 Clifton Ave. Cincinnati, OH 45220 513-556-0000 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top