Skip to main content UCF News | Stories of Impact + Innovation | Orlando, FL Tuesday, May 31, 2022 88ºF Mostly cloudy Sections × UCF News | Stories of Impact + Innovation | Orlando, FL Arts Business Colleges Community Health Opinions Science & Tech Sports Student Life Tuesday, May 31, 2022 88ºF Mostly cloudy Business & Economy News Limbitless Solutions Recognized as One of Florida’s Best Manufacturing Companies The UCF-based company is being honored with a Florida Sterling Manufacturing Business Excellence Award for its model operations. Limbitless Solutions Sets Orlando Innovation Ecosystem on Fire The Orlando Business Journal honored the UCF-based organization with its 2022 Blazer Award for bringing the heat to Orlando’s innovation economy. Wriggle Brew ‘Worm Tea’ Fertilizer Wins at UCF’s 2022 Joust New Venture Competition Economics student Samuel Baker won for his concept, which also doubles as a pesticide. Metro Forecast: Florida Economy Must Weather ‘Monetary Policy Hurricane’ to Avoid Recession With the Federal Reserve making its first interest rate hike in three years in March, UCF’s Institute for Economic Forecasting predicts the 0.25% increase will be the first of many. UCF Recognized for Academic Excellence and Advancing Professional Careers in Engineering, Research and Innovation Led by the nation’s No. 3 homeland security program and some of the best engineering and research-innovation programs in the country, U.S. News & World Report ranked more than 30 UCF graduate programs among the best. Knights Do That: Cultivating Positive Workplace Well-being Associate Professor of Psychology Mindy Shoss shares insight on “The Great Resignation,” workplace well-being and what companies can do to promote employee satisfaction. ﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿ UCF Students Win $25,000 for 1st Place Finish at 2nd HSI Battle of the Brains Competition A team of eight UCF students beat competitors from 10 other Hispanic Serving Institutions during the 24-hour hackathon/business plan challenge. Forecast: Threats to Recovery in Oven Before Putin Turned Up the Heat Economic issues stemming from COVID-19 continue to be a challenge as Russia’s invasion of Ukraine adds to price increases. Opportunity Knocks When the door to potential prosperity closes on Black business owners, soon-to-be UCF Hall of Famer Inez Long ’98MBA knows how to kick it back open. Distinguished UCF Business Alumni, Partners to be Honored at 22nd Annual Hall of Fame The Field of Dreams-themed gala will be held April 14 at Rosen Shingle Creek. UCF in the News Sea Turtle Nesting Season off to a Strong Start on Florida’s Atlantic Beaches Orlando Sentinel UCF Calls for More Research Spending, Faculty and Fundraising in Latest Strategic Plan Orlando Business Journal Where No Ice Was Seen Before: UCF Team Designs Lunar Satellite Tools to Hunt for Water Orlando Sentinel UCF, Orlando Health Testing Medical Technology That Could Help Detect Blood Clots Faster WOFL Fox 35 View All Stories about UCF Events at UCF May 31 Alcoholics Anonymous 7:00 pm - 8:00 pm Jun 1 Application Deadline: Peer Mentor for Summer Research Academy 12:00 am - 11:45 pm Jun 1 Application Deadline: Summer Research Academy 9:00 am - 10:00 pm View All Events Resources About UCF Today For the Media News Archive Pegasus Magazine Tell Us What You Think Suggest a Story University of Central Florida About UCF Contact Us Faculty Online Degrees Policies Privacy Notice Public Records Regulations Report a Concern UCF News 4000 Central Florida Blvd. Orlando, Florida, 32816 | 407.823.2000 © University of Central Florida