Search | Directories | Reference Tools UW Home > Discover UW > Student Guide UW Bothell Course Descriptions UW Tacoma Course Descriptions Glossary COLLEGE OF ARTS & SCIENCES JACKSON SCHOOL INTERNATIONAL STUDIES JSIS GLOBAL AND THEMATIC COURSES Detailed course offerings (Time Schedule) are available for Spring Quarter 2022 Summer Quarter 2022 Autumn Quarter 2022 JSIS B 100 Issues in International Studies (5, max. 15) I&S Bachman, Curran, Yang Offers an introduction to some contemporary salient issues in international and global affairs, focusing on one or two major developments or questions. View course details in MyPlan: JSIS B 100 JSIS B 103 Society and the Oceans (5) NW/I&S, DIV Explores the social, justice, and policy dimensions of the ocean environment and ocean management policy. Pays attention to how human values, institutions, culture, and history shape environmental issues and policy responses. Examines case studies and influential frameworks, such as the ocean as "tragedy of the commons." Offered: jointly with ENVIR 103/SMEA 103; Sp. View course details in MyPlan: JSIS B 103 JSIS B 120 Perspectives on Contemporary Public Policy Issues (3) I&S Lecture series on contemporary domestic and international public policy issues. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: jointly with POL S 120. View course details in MyPlan: JSIS B 120 JSIS B 180 Introduction to Global Health: Disparities, Determinants, Policies, and Outcomes (5) I&S Todd Faubion, Stephen Gloyd Provides an introduction to global health, including: the burden and distribution of disease and mortality; the determinants of global health disparities; the making of global health policies; and the outcomes of global health interventions. Offered: jointly with G H 101/GEOG 180; Sp. View course details in MyPlan: JSIS B 180 JSIS B 216 Science and Society (5) I&S/NW Chaloupka Investigation of the relationship between science, technology, and society. Nuclear physics and molecular biology serve as concrete examples of fields with significant impact on society. Offered: jointly with PHYS 216; Sp. View course details in MyPlan: JSIS B 216 JSIS B 264 Violence, Race, and Memory (5) VLPA/I&S, DIV Explores how images and ideas of power, race, violence, and global modernity circulate in memories and discourses about US relations with Vietnam, the Philippines, and Indonesia. Topics include foundations myths, colonial and postcolonial encounters, historiography and narrative, and nationalist and ethnic identity formations. Offered: jointly with HSTAS 264; Sp. View course details in MyPlan: JSIS B 264 JSIS B 301 War (5) I&S Origins and conduct of war; readings from anthropology, political science, economics, and history, as well as novels and some recent works on the arms-control controversy. Modern forms of warfare, including guerrilla war, world war, and nuclear war. Offered: jointly with SOC 306. View course details in MyPlan: JSIS B 301 JSIS B 307 Digital Storytelling and Global Citizenship (5) I&S T. LAGOS Teaches students the meaning of global citizenship while developing their skills to effectively communicate, through digital storytelling, the power of social change. Working in teams students use their knowledge and experiences to produce a short video highlighting efforts or strategies to address a specific global issue. View course details in MyPlan: JSIS B 307 JSIS B 310 State-Society Relations in Third World Countries (5) I&S, DIV Bachman, Callahan Relationships among political, social, and economic changes in Asia, Africa, and Latin America. Problems of economic and political development, revolution and reform, state-society relations, imperialism and dependency. Offered: jointly with POL S 320. View course details in MyPlan: JSIS B 310 JSIS B 311 Myth of War (5) I&S Poznanski Explores war as a concept in international political economy. Examines interpretations of war as put forth by proponents of the key theoretical constructs of mercantilism, liberalism, and Marxism. Explores contemporary challenges to the prevailing, dominant theories of war. View course details in MyPlan: JSIS B 311 JSIS B 312 Money, Love and Marriage in Europe and America (5) I&S N. KLAPAKI Provides an cross-cultural and interdisciplinary discussion of romantic and economic issues related to marriage by drawing on seminal texts in the fields of history, anthropology, feminist literary criticism and cultural studies. View course details in MyPlan: JSIS B 312 JSIS B 315 Law, State, and Society (5) I&S Examination of both state law and non-state law (rules and ways of ordering behavior such as customary law, religious law, and social conventions). Focuses on the ways non-state law interacts with and affects state law and is affected by state law. View course details in MyPlan: JSIS B 315 JSIS B 316 War, Peace, and Survival (5) I&S War, peace, and how people live in situations of war. Trends and theories of war and of peacemaking. Also focuses on individuals and families and how gender, race and ethnicity, and other factors influence what people experience, do, think, and how they fare during situations of organized violence. Applies this to understanding the specific conflicts in Nepal and Kashmir. View course details in MyPlan: JSIS B 316 JSIS B 320 Yoga: History, Health and Practice (5) I&S/VLPA C. NOVETZKE Examines history, practice, literature, and health effects of yoga from ancient to modern. Explores essential texts and ideas, issues of health and wellness, and contemporary legal debates about yoga. View course details in MyPlan: JSIS B 320 JSIS B 321 United States National Security (5) I&S Examines the history of United States national security policies from the eighteenth century to the present, focusing on ideas, relationships, and events that impacted the decision makers who created these polices. View course details in MyPlan: JSIS B 321 JSIS B 324 Immigration (5) I&S, DIV Friedman Introduces key theoretical debates in international migration. Examines immigrants' political, economic, religious, and social integration into host societies, and continued ties to homelands. Experiences of voluntary and involuntary immigrants, of the second generation, and of incorporation into America and Europe. Designed around interdisciplinary texts and fieldwork in Seattle. View course details in MyPlan: JSIS B 324 JSIS B 330 International Political Economy (5) I&S Establishment, maintenance, and decay of the post-1945 international economic order. Political economy of international trade, monetary relations, inflation, and North-South relations. Prerequisite: JSIS 201 which may be taken concurrently; either ECON 201, GEOG 123 or JSIS 123 any of which may be taken concurrently. Instructors: Hamilton, Ingebritsen, Latsch View course details in MyPlan: JSIS B 330 JSIS B 331 Political Economy of Development (5) I&S Growth, income distribution, and economic development in less-developed countries today. Policies concerning trade, industrialization, the agricultural sector, human resources, and financing of development. Prerequisite: either ECON 201, GEOG 123 or JSIS 123, any of which may be taken concurrently. Instructors: Latsch, Poznanski View course details in MyPlan: JSIS B 331 JSIS B 332 Political Economy of International Trade and Finance (5) I&S Poznanski Theoretical and historical analysis to explore the causes and effects of the rise and decline of four major international trade and monetary regimes. Foundations and emerging features of the new international trade and monetary regime and its implications for the world economy. View course details in MyPlan: JSIS B 332 JSIS B 333 Gender and Globalization: Theory and Process (5) I&S, DIV Ramamurthy Theoretical, historical, and empirical analysis of how current processes of globalization are transforming the actual conditions of women's lives, labor, gender ideologies, and politics in complex and contradictory ways. Topics include feminist exploration of colonialism, capitalism, economic restructuring policies, resistance in consumer and environmental movements. Offered: jointly with GWSS 333. View course details in MyPlan: JSIS B 333 JSIS B 335 Geography of the Developing World (5) I&S Characteristics and causes, external and internal, of Third World development and obstacles to that development. Special attention to demographic and agricultural patterns, resource development, industrialization and urbanization, drawing on specific case studies from Asia, Africa, and Latin America. Offered: jointly with GEOG 335. View course details in MyPlan: JSIS B 335 JSIS B 336 Political Violence (5) I&S Examines the causes and consequences of the use of violence in the context of armed conflict and contentious politics, with a focus on the targeting of civilians. Investigates the dynamics influencing both state and non-state armed actors in their resort to various forms of violence across a range of conflicts. Offered: jointly with POL S 336. View course details in MyPlan: JSIS B 336 JSIS B 337 Collective Violence and the State (5) I&S, DIV Comparative study of how and why genocides have occurred in modern times. Examines how ethnic, religious, and nationalist conflicts have sometimes led to violent conflict, and how political leaders and governments have mitigated or exacerbated them, sometimes engaging in state sponsored mass killing. Offered: jointly with POL S 337. View course details in MyPlan: JSIS B 337 JSIS B 338 Biosecurity (5) I&S Lowe Examines relations between life and safety as a new focus of study in the human sciences. Pays attention to the reframing of international health, food security, environmental change, migration, etc., in security terms. Focuses on both present practical issues of biosecurity and the concept of "security" itself. View course details in MyPlan: JSIS B 338 JSIS B 340 The Cold War: Realities, Myths, Legacies (5) I&S Provides an interdisciplinary introduction to the Cold War (1947-1991), a global conflict, with political, cultural, and military tensions, between the two post-World War II superpowers: the USA and its "Western" allies, and the USSR and its "Eastern" allies. Attention given to diplomatic, military, and cultural ramifications. Offered: jointly with HSTCMP 340. View course details in MyPlan: JSIS B 340 JSIS B 344 Migration in the Global Economy (5) I&S Analyzes the relationship between human mobility in the late twentieth century and changes in the global economy. Allows students to gain familiarity with scholarly research on international migration from a diversity of approaches and methods. Offered: jointly with GEOG 344. View course details in MyPlan: JSIS B 344 JSIS B 345 Women and International Economic Development (5) I&S, DIV P. RAMAMURTHY Questions how women are affected by economic development in Third World and celebrates redefinitions of what development means. Introduces theoretical perspectives and methods to interrogate gender and development policies. Assesses current processes of globalization and potential for changing gender and economic inequalities. Offered: jointly with ANTH 345/GWSS 345. View course details in MyPlan: JSIS B 345 JSIS B 346 Disability in Global and Comparative Perspective (5) I&S, DIV Examines the meaning, politics, and experience of disability globally and locally in order to understand what is universal and what is particular to the disability experience in a diverse world. Human rights, inclusive development, and social movements approaches addressing the marginalization of disabled persons explored throughout. Offered: jointly with DIS ST 346/LSJ 346. View course details in MyPlan: JSIS B 346 JSIS B 347 Comparative Geographies of Youth (5) I&S Examines how three key global processes - rising levels of formal education, changing health regimes , and environmental transformation - are shaping youth in the US and South Asia. Examines ways young people rework broader structures, paying particular attention to their economic livelihoods, cultural practices, and political engagements. Offered: jointly with GEOG 343; A. View course details in MyPlan: JSIS B 347 JSIS B 350 Environmental Norms in International Politics (5) I&S Ingebritsen Surveys development of international environmental consciousness from 1960s to present. Models of "green development"; ways in which norms for resource use have entered global politics. Patterns of state compliance with international environmental agreements, and why states fall short of meeting their international obligations. Offered: jointly with ENVIR 360/SCAND 350. View course details in MyPlan: JSIS B 350 JSIS B 351 The Global Environment (5) I&S Explores the environment in international perspective emphasizing the social implications of living in an economically globalized and environmentally interconnected world. Examines these implications through examples of toxics and the human body, biodiversity conservation, climate change, disease, and environmental problems. View course details in MyPlan: JSIS B 351 JSIS B 352 Sustainability and Global Business: Leading in a Changing World (5) I&S J. Leinaweaver Course explores the relationships between business, sustainability and social responsibility, asking three core questions: Why should business care about sustainability and social responsibility? What can businesses do to help address these problems? How do we re-invent the traditional consumer-based business model of "make things, sell things, buy things"? View course details in MyPlan: JSIS B 352 JSIS B 355 Cybersecurity and International Studies (5) I&S J. Beyer Addresses the major international agreements, organizations, and infrastructures shaping cybersecurity. Covers basic technical terminology and legal frameworks related to cybersecurity. View course details in MyPlan: JSIS B 355 JSIS B 357 The Geopolitics of Energy (5) I&S Provides an Introduction to energy studies focusing on geopolitics. Topics explored include global energy resources, trends, and technologies; energy supply, demand, and consumption; economic issues; the changing role of OPEC; concepts of energy sustainability; energy and climate change. View course details in MyPlan: JSIS B 357 JSIS B 360 The United States in the World (5) I&S Examines the history of the United States' relations with the world over the twentieth century. Combines and overview of broad trends in the projection and contestation of United States power abroad with specific case studies grounded in particular geographic regions of the globe. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: JSIS B 360 JSIS B 361 The Rise of a Global Language (5) I&S Explores the reality and status of English as a global language, implications for international relations, relationship to globalization, and effects in areas of national identity, modernization, science and technology, and the future of human communication. View course details in MyPlan: JSIS B 361 JSIS B 365 World Cities (5) I&S Kasaba, Sparke Factors that have propelled New York, London, and Tokyo into key positions in the organization of the late twentieth century international system. Asks historical and comparative questions and discusses the reasons behind the diminished position of cities such as Venice, Vienna, and Istanbul in that system. View course details in MyPlan: JSIS B 365 JSIS B 366 Comparative Law and Legal Cultures (5) I&S G. Barzilai Explores global issues of comparative law, societies, politics, courts, and cultures. Introduces theories and methods of comparing legal settings internationally and understating diverse responses to law. Covers what is comparative law; families of law; history of comparative law; judicial review; legal cultures; rights consciousness; and regulation. Can not be taken for credit if student has already taken LSJ/POL S 367. Offered: jointly with LSJ 366. View course details in MyPlan: JSIS B 366 JSIS B 370 Privacy (5) I&S S. Pekkanen Explores how individuals, corporations, and governments respond to privacy challenges in the digital age. Examines evolution of the idea of privacy using case studies of actual privacy policies, legal cases, and real-world situations. Covers legal, political, and social facets of this fundamental human issue. Offered: jointly with LSJ 370/POL S 370; Sp. View course details in MyPlan: JSIS B 370 JSIS B 371 Global Crime and Corruption (5) I&S J. Long Iv We examine sources & outcomes of illicit behavior within firms, governments, and organizations at local, national, & international levels; investigating the psychological, cultural, political, and economic sources of crime/corruption; and explore these dynamics within businesses, bureaucracies, gangs, mafias, cults, and pirates. Case studies include India, US-Mexico drug trade, piracy, doomsday cults, Sicilian mafias, Nazi drug abuse, & Dark Web. Recommended: POL S 203, POL S 204, or POL S 270; or JSIS 123, JSIS 200, JSIS 201, or JSIS 222; or equivalent. Offered: jointly with POL S 371. View course details in MyPlan: JSIS B 371 JSIS B 375 Geopolitics (5) I&S, DIV An introduction to both political geography and geopolitics, addressing the fundamental links between power and space. Topics covered include: theories of power, space, and modernity; the formation of modern states; international geopolitics in the aftermath of the Cold War; the post-colonial nation-state; and the geopolitics of resistance. Offered: jointly with GEOG 375. View course details in MyPlan: JSIS B 375 JSIS B 380 Immigration and Cultural Memory in the Pacific Northwest: The Role of Film and Cinema (5) I&S T. LAGOS Explores immigration and culture through the development of the film industry in relation to the immigrant flows into Seattle at the turn of the 20th century. The rise of cinema helped immigrants to assimilate into mainstream society. In turn, immigrants turned films into a major American industry. View course details in MyPlan: JSIS B 380 JSIS B 385 Industry and the State (5) I&S Builds on states and markets approach of 200 and 201 through specific examination of effects of industry and industrial structure on political outcomes and roles of state. Emphasis on late-developing and newly developing economies. Prerequisite: JSIS 200; JSIS 201. Instructors: Hamilton, Whiting View course details in MyPlan: JSIS B 385 JSIS B 386 Law and Politics of International Trade (5) I&S S. Pekkanen Survey of global trade politics in the context of the World trade Organization (WTO), with attention to positive and negative aspects of its governance. Examines the impact of the WTO legal framework on trade relations among developed and developing countries. Covers topics such as dispute settlement, development, safeguards, antidumping, intellectual property, and regionalism. View course details in MyPlan: JSIS B 386 JSIS B 388 Political Economy of Industrialized Nations (5) I&S Theoretical bases of various political economic systems of industrialized nations. Several major issues these political economies currently face; usefulness and limits of economic analyses within broader perspective of political economy. Prerequisite: either ECON 201, GEOG 123 or JSIS 123 any of which may be taken concurrently. View course details in MyPlan: JSIS B 388 JSIS B 391 Climate Change - An International Perspective: Science, Art, and Activism (5) I&S/VLPA R. PAVIA Explores climate change science in the context of geographic, social, and political constraints, considering the role of art, activism, and Arctic indigenous peoples in communicating impacts and mitigation. Students gain knowledge in key atmospheric and ocean science principles along with the role of science in society Offered: jointly with ARCTIC 391; Sp. View course details in MyPlan: JSIS B 391 JSIS B 393 LGBTI Rights in International Affairs (5) I&S, DIV E. CARLSON-RAINER Introduction to LGBTI and human rights issues impact in contemporary international relations.; NGOs and civil society advocacy that leads to foreign policy reform; Difference strategies uses by LGBTI activists in Europe, Scandinavia, and the U.S.; Debates in the UN on global rights; LGBTI rights diplomacy; conditioning international aid according to LGBT rights; Human rights issues in the context of broader global sociopolitical relations. View course details in MyPlan: JSIS B 393 JSIS B 406 Political Islam and Islamic Fundamentalism (5) I&S Robinson Study of resurgence, since mid-1970s, of political Islam and what has come to be called Islamic fundamentalism, especially in the Middle East. Topics include the nature and variety of political Islam today, causes and implications of the current resurgence, and comparison with previous resurgences. Offered: jointly with POL S 432. View course details in MyPlan: JSIS B 406 JSIS B 407 Political Islam and Contemporary Islamist Movements (5) I&S Examines Islamist movements (which seek to reform Muslim society through the capture and the modern state and the establishment of Islamic law) to understand how they impact regional politic and global political Islam. Prerequisite: either HIST 161, NEAR E 211, NEAR E 212, JSIS C 211, JSIS C 212, JSIS B 406/POL S 432, JSIS A 215, or JSIS A 402, any of which may be taken concurrently. Instructors: Robinson Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: JSIS B 407 JSIS B 408 Topics in the History of Capitalism (5, max. 10) I&S Mark Metzler Selected topics in the history of capitalism in a global, multi-century perspective. Recommended: either JSIS 200, or equivalent courses in global history. Offered: jointly with HSTCMP 408. View course details in MyPlan: JSIS B 408 JSIS B 410 Readings in U.S. in the World (5) I&S D. Bessner Explores how numerous factors - political, economic, social, racial, intellectual, technological, and others - shaped the ways in which the United States has interacted with the world since the late-nineteenth century. View course details in MyPlan: JSIS B 410 JSIS B 416 Putting the World on the Couch: Psychoanalysis and International Studies (5) I&S Deborah Porter Explores the relation of trauma to memory and cultural production, focusing on historical, literary, and filmic treatments of hysteria and repression, shell shock, and the effects of war, terrorism, and psychic trauma. Uses psychoanalytical theory to analyze the commentary on international issues that lies in texts, films, and other cultural phenomena. View course details in MyPlan: JSIS B 416 JSIS B 417 Enter the Dragon: Seminar on World Cultures through the Asian Martial Arts (5) I&S Novetzke Examines how the martial arts have preserved religious, cultural, and philosophical aspects of the world areas of their origin, as well as the new cultures and international communities that have adopted and reinvented their practices and philosophies, including India, China, Japan, Korea, Brazil, and Euro-America. Offered: jointly with CHID 417. View course details in MyPlan: JSIS B 417 JSIS B 419 Comparative Media Systems (5) I&S Provides students an understanding of policies that shape national communication processes and systems. Uses comparative analysis to identify both similarities and differences among media structures of nations at different levels of development. Primary emphasis on broadcast media. Offered: jointly with COM 420/POL S 468. View course details in MyPlan: JSIS B 419 JSIS B 420 Failed States (5) I&S Radnitz Critically examines the causes and consequences of state failure. Analyzes theories about the rise of the modern state and the precondition for "successful" states to form and endure, then examines theories and case studies of modern failed state. View course details in MyPlan: JSIS B 420 JSIS B 422 International Trade and Security (5) I&S Examines international trade's potential threat to national security. Covers basic elements and limitations of export controls used to protect national security and international stability. Focuses on export controls to prevent proliferation of weapons of mass destruction, and to limit other governments' ability to develop capabilities that jeopardize regional or international stability. View course details in MyPlan: JSIS B 422 JSIS B 423 Practicing American Foreign Policy (5) I&S Develops familiarity with tools available to promote international objectives of the United States. International case studies selected to illustrate the diverse considerations inherent in the policy process and evaluate the strengths and weaknesses of the national institutions involved. Prerequisite: JSIS 201. View course details in MyPlan: JSIS B 423 JSIS B 424 The Politics of International Nuclear Security: Weapons, Energy and Environment (5) I&S C. JONES Nation state choices and military alliance choices in Eurasia on nuclear weapons arsenals, nuclear energy, arms control treaties plus survey of global and regional Eurasian non-proliferation regimes. Eurasian military-political conflicts; Cold War nuclear arms race; Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty; Nuclear Weapons Free Zones. Comparisons of fissile and fossil fuels, climate change, economic development, energy security, and terrorist threats. View course details in MyPlan: JSIS B 424 JSIS B 425 Crafting and Influencing United States Foreign Policy (5) I&S J. BUTTE-DAHL Explores the inner-workings of the United States government and the complexity inherent in United States foreign policy decision-making. Includes an overview of foreign affairs agencies and the interagency process, executive-legislative relations, foreign assistance and the budget process, and the impact of external stakeholders on the policy-making system. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: JSIS B 425 JSIS B 426 World Politics (5) I&S The nation-state system and its alternatives, world distributions of preferences and power, structure of international authority, historical world societies and their politics. Offered: jointly with POL S 426. View course details in MyPlan: JSIS B 426 JSIS B 427 Weapons of Mass Destruction: Development, Deployment, and Detection (5) I&S Fuller Practical understanding of the development of nuclear, biological, and chemical weapons plus missile delivery systems. Proliferation detection technology and its limitations. Case studies of past and current arms control agreements and non-proliferation programs. View course details in MyPlan: JSIS B 427 JSIS B 428 The Media and Peace (5) I&S Investigates the complex relationships among the media, journalistic practice, and our understanding and pursuit of peace. Offered: jointly with COM 428. View course details in MyPlan: JSIS B 428 JSIS B 429 Nuclear Nonproliferation and International Safeguards (5) I&S Examines the technologies of nuclear energy, the institutions that have been deployed to address the security threats related to peaceful uses of nuclear energy, and the issues and challenges confronting those institutions today. View course details in MyPlan: JSIS B 429 JSIS B 430 Late Industrialization and Social Change (5) I&S Deals with distinct patterns of social change under late industrialization, such as Japan, South Korea, Germany and the Soviet Union. Analyzes the social and institutional implications of economic policies by looking at the interactions between the state, traditions, and economic actors. View course details in MyPlan: JSIS B 430 JSIS B 431 International Negotiation Simulation (5) I&S Research and writing in small groups to prepare policy documents on a current international issue, followed by simulated negotiations with students representing different nations, following instructions from and reporting to national leaders. View course details in MyPlan: JSIS B 431 JSIS B 433 Environmental Degradation in the Tropics (5) I&S/NW Christie Considers theories and controversies of environmental degradation in the tropics, ecological and social case studies of Central American rain forests and Southeast Asian coral reefs, and implications of environmental management techniques. Offered: jointly with ENVIR 433/SMEA 433. View course details in MyPlan: JSIS B 433 JSIS B 436 Ethnic Politics and Nationalism in Multi-Ethnic Societies (5) I&S Provides a broad theoretical base, both descriptive and analytical, for the comparative study of ethnicity and nationalism. Examples drawn from ethnic movements in different societies. Some previous exposure either to introductory courses in political science or to courses in ethnicity in other departments is desirable. Offered: jointly with POL S 436. View course details in MyPlan: JSIS B 436 JSIS B 437 Global Diasporas (5) I&S Explores dispersal of people from homelands to different world regions, the creation of communities, transnational relations, and identities based on the histories and consequences of their migration. Topics addressed include diasporas in world history; diaspora theories; literature, food, film of diasporas; role of diasporas in politics, conflict, war and reconciliation, in economic development and homeland tourism. View course details in MyPlan: JSIS B 437 JSIS B 440 The Communist Experience Around the World (5) I&S Young Communism from its origins in Bolshevik faction of Russian social democracy to the present, treating the development of the ideology, the various communist parties, and the communist states. Offered: jointly with HSTCMP 440. View course details in MyPlan: JSIS B 440 JSIS B 441 Forced Migrations (5) I&S, DIV Friedman Provides an interdisciplinary understanding of the causes, characteristics, and consequences of forced migration experiences across the global system. Explores how international policy makers, humanitarian workers, and scholars have constructed forced migration as a problem for analysis and action, including some of the ethical dilemmas involved. View course details in MyPlan: JSIS B 441 JSIS B 444 Space Law and Policy (5) I&S Saadia M. Pekkanen Law and policy foundations of outer space activities. Essential origins, sources, and role of space law, as well as key institutions, forums, and forces shaping the contemporary governance of space activities. Provides a thorough grounding in U.N. treaties, principles, resolutions, regulations, and private international and national space laws and policies. Offered: jointly with A A 490/ESS 488. View course details in MyPlan: JSIS B 444 JSIS B 446 History, Memory, and Justice (5) I&S Giebel Focuses on the complex interactions between history and historical representation, remembrance and commemoration, memory and identity, and notions of justice and reconciliation. Addresses these issues on methodological, theoretical, and practical grounds, drawing on examples from various genres, periods, and world regions. Offered: jointly with HSTCMP 446. View course details in MyPlan: JSIS B 446 JSIS B 450 Deeply Divided Societies (5) I&S Ethnic conflict seen from two perspectives: 1. the study of theoretical approaches as a means of understanding deeply divided societies; 2. a focus on one or more specific conflicts. View course details in MyPlan: JSIS B 450 JSIS B 451 Political Parties in Democratic Systems (5) I&S Examines political parties in three different and interrelated aspects: party organizations; party in the electorate; and the party in government. How parties aggregate and represent interests. Parties at different points in time and in different states around the world. Offered: jointly with POL S 450; W. View course details in MyPlan: JSIS B 451 JSIS B 455 International Environmental Policy (5) I&S J. BEGUN Examines the economics of international environmental policy from both a theoretical and empirical perspective. Focus is on environmental policy in China, the U.S. and Europe and on the challenges combining economic growth and development with environmental stewardship and responsible resource use. View course details in MyPlan: JSIS B 455 JSIS B 457 Food, Ethnicity, and Identity in Hispanic Culture (5) I&S/VLPA Ana M. Gomez-Bravo Explores food, ethnicity, and identity in the Hispanic World, including Sephardic, Muslim, Native American, Basque, and Catalan groups. Taught in English. Prerequisite: Either SPAN 303 or SPAN 316; SPAN 322. Offered: jointly with SPAN 457; Sp. View course details in MyPlan: JSIS B 457 JSIS B 467 Nations and States in the Modern World (5) I&S Development of national consciousness in the "old nations" of Europe before the French Revolution. Replacement by new nationalism, spreading into East Central Europe, Russia, Ibero-America, Asia, and Africa. Offered: jointly with HSTCMP 467. View course details in MyPlan: JSIS B 467 JSIS B 468 Theatre as a Site of History and Memory (5) VLPA/I&S Sears Explores Asian theatre traditions as sites of memory, testimony, and archive using ethnographic and historiographical approaches. Includes service-learning components and collaborative performance projects. Offered: jointly with HSTCMP 468. View course details in MyPlan: JSIS B 468 JSIS B 469 Law and Rights in Authoritarian Regimes (5) I&S S. WHITING Explores role of law and courts and nature of rights in authoritarian regimes. Questions addressed include why authoritarian regimes promote "rule-of-law", who is empowered by law, and the political consequences of "rule-of-law' promotion. Offered: jointly with LSJ 469/POL S 469. View course details in MyPlan: JSIS B 469 JSIS B 472 Electoral Systems (5) I&S R. Pekkanen Explores a fundamental link between citizens and political representation: how electoral systems shape party systems, what kinds of people become candidates, how parties work, representation, and policy. Covers effects and mechanics of the various voting systems. Offered: jointly with POL S 472. View course details in MyPlan: JSIS B 472 JSIS B 476 Comparative International Political Economy (5) I&S Comparative analysis of four major approaches to international political economy: mercantilism, Marxism, liberalism, and evolutionary approach. Focus on international cooperation, social change, and economic institutions. Theoretical analysis of the four paradigms and applications to historic and current issues in international political economy: hegemonic cycle, post-communist transition, and cross-national income inequality. View course details in MyPlan: JSIS B 476 JSIS B 480 Fundamentals of Global Cybersecurity (5) I&S Jessica Beyer Area and international studies approach to investigating nation-state cybersecurity strategy and regional dynamics. Addresses the cybersecurity strategies of major international actors, regional dynamics, famous cyberattacks, and the state of international cybersecurity. Structured geographically. Involves instruction by guest experts. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: JSIS B 480 JSIS B 508 Topics in the History of Capitalism (5, max. 10) Mark Metzler Selected topics in the history of capitalism in a global, multi-century perspective. Offered: jointly with HSTCMP 508. View course details in MyPlan: JSIS B 508 JSIS B 510 Readings in U.S. in the World (5) D. Bessner Explores how numerous factors - political, economic, social, racial, intellectual, technological, and others - shaped the ways in which the United States has interacted with the world since the late-nineteenth century. View course details in MyPlan: JSIS B 510 JSIS B 520 Failed States (5) Radnitz Critically examines the causes and consequences of state failure. Analyzes theories about the rise of the modern state and the precondition for "successful" states to form and endure, then examines theories and case studies of modern failed state. View course details in MyPlan: JSIS B 520 JSIS B 522 International Trade and Security (5) Examines international trade's potential threat to national security. Covers basic elements and limitations of export controls used to protect national security and international stability. Focuses on export controls to prevent proliferation of weapons of mass destruction, and to limit other governments' ability to develop capabilities that jeopardize regional or international stability. View course details in MyPlan: JSIS B 522 JSIS B 523 Seminar on Religious and Political Violence (5) Robinson Employs ethnographic studies and anthropological theory to examine the relationships between culture and power in the analysis of religious and political violence. Topics include modernity; secularisms and fundamentalisms; ritual, sacrifice, and martyrdom; law, rights, and subject-making. Offered: jointly with ANTH 523. View course details in MyPlan: JSIS B 523 JSIS B 524 International Law and Arms Control (5) Surveys the political, legal, and technological history of twentieth century arms control agreements with emphasis on the treaties which ended the Cold War. Examines current issues of law, politics, military strategy, and technology in regard to weapons of mass destruction and related topics in international security. View course details in MyPlan: JSIS B 524 JSIS B 525 Special Topics in Race, Ethnicity, and Nationalism (5, max. 10) Topics vary, but focus on the politics of race, ethnicity, and nationalism viewed from a broad, comparative, interdisciplinary perspective. Emphasizes cross-cultural, and the geographical coverage may be regional or global. View course details in MyPlan: JSIS B 525 JSIS B 526 Political Islam and Islamic Fundamentalism (3/5) Robinson Examines political Islam as a modern phenomenon produced at the intersections between localized and globalized political cultures and between political, religious, and social authority. Focuses on anthropological studies to examine how Islamic publics produce moral judgments about political practices. Offered: jointly with ANTH 526. View course details in MyPlan: JSIS B 526 JSIS B 527 Weapons of Mass Destruction: Development, Deployment, and Detection (5) Fuller Practical understanding of the development of nuclear, biological, and chemical weapons plus missile delivery systems. Proliferation detection technology and its limitations. Case studies of past and current arms control agreements and non-proliferation programs. View course details in MyPlan: JSIS B 527 JSIS B 529 Nuclear Nonproliferation and International Safeguards (5) Examines the technologies of nuclear energy, the institutions that have been deployed to address the security threats related to peaceful uses of nuclear energy, and the issues and challenges confronting those institutions today. View course details in MyPlan: JSIS B 529 JSIS B 531 International Negotiation Simulation (5) Examines international trade's potential threat to national security. Covers basic elements and limitations of export controls used to protect national security and international stability. Focuses on export controls to prevent proliferation of weapons of mass destruction, and to limit other governments' ability to develop capabilities that jeopardize regional or international stability. View course details in MyPlan: JSIS B 531 JSIS B 536 Analysis, Information, and the Politics Shaping American Foreign Policy (5) Chirot Explores competing interests and sources of information in the making of American foreign policy. Examines the origins of the national security state after World War II; decision making during the Cold War and Viet Nam War; the crisis of 9/11; and current strategies for analyzing information and handling foreign policy crises. View course details in MyPlan: JSIS B 536 JSIS B 537 Global Diasporas (5) I&S Explores dispersal of people from homelands to different world regions, the creation of communities, transnational relations, and identities based on the histories and consequences of their migration. Topics addressed include diasporas in world history; diaspora theories; literature, food, film of diasporas; role of diasporas in politics, conflict, war and reconciliation, in economic development and homeland tourism. View course details in MyPlan: JSIS B 537 JSIS B 541 Forced Migrations (5) Friedman Provides an interdisciplinary understanding of the causes, characteristics, and consequences of forced migration experiences across the global system. Explores how international policy makers, humanitarian workers, and scholars have constructed forced migrations as a problem for analysis and actions, including some of the ethical dilemmas involved. View course details in MyPlan: JSIS B 541 JSIS B 542 Seminar: State and Society (5) Migdal Examines the mutually conditioning relationship between states and the societies they seek to govern. Studies states as large, complex organizations and their interactions with society on different levels. Shows that interactions on any level affect the nature of the state on other levels as well. Offered: jointly with POL S 542. View course details in MyPlan: JSIS B 542 JSIS B 544 Space Law and Policy (5) Saadia M. Pekkanen Law and policy foundations of outer space activities. Essential origins, sources, and role of space law, as well as key institutions, forums, and forces shaping the contemporary governance of space activities. Provides a thorough grounding in U.N. treaties, principles, resolutions, regulations, and private international and national space laws and policies. Offered: jointly with A A 590/ESS 584; Sp. View course details in MyPlan: JSIS B 544 JSIS B 549 International Investment Law and Practice (4/5) Examines the rise of international investment law and practice, including topics such as Bilateral Investment Treaties (BITs), standards of treatment, investor-state arbitrations, and social and political controversies related to the governance of foreign direct investment (FDI) in developed and developing countries. Offered: jointly with LAW E 549. View course details in MyPlan: JSIS B 549 JSIS B 553 Environment and Health in the World Trade Organization (5) S. Pekkanen Conflicts between global environmental and public health on the one hand and international trade expansion on the other in the World Trade Organization (WTO). Focuses on the state of GAITT/WTO jurisprudence and its interaction with sovereign laws and regulations. Cases include asbestos, reformulated gasoline, beef hormones, shrimp-turtle, and genetically modified organisms. View course details in MyPlan: JSIS B 553 JSIS B 555 Cybersecurity and International Studies (5) J. Beyer Addresses the major international agreements, organizations, and infrastructures shaping cybersecurity. Covers basic technical terminology and legal frameworks related to cybersecurity. View course details in MyPlan: JSIS B 555 JSIS B 556 International Human Rights Clinic ([1-12]-, max. 12) Interdisciplinary clinical training in international human rights. Includes seminar component on legal issues, practice skills, and reflections on human rights projects. Fieldwork on human rights projects tests, develops, and enhances skills training through real-world human rights practice with cross-campus, U.S., and international partnerships. Credit/no-credit only. View course details in MyPlan: JSIS B 556 JSIS B 557 The Geopolitics of Energy (5) Introduction to energy studies focusing on geopolitics. Topics include global energy resources, trends, and technologies; energy supply, demand, and consumption; economic issues; the changing role of OPEC; concepts of energy sustainability; energy and climate change. View course details in MyPlan: JSIS B 557 JSIS B 569 Law and Rights in Authoritative Regimes (5) Explores role of law and courts and the nature of rights in authoritarian regimes. Questions addressed include why authoritarian regimes promote "rule-of-law", who is empowered by law, and the political consequences of "rule-of-law promotion. Offered: jointly with POL S 569. View course details in MyPlan: JSIS B 569 JSIS B 572 Electoral Systems (5) R. Pekkanen Explores a fundamental link between citizens and political representation: how electoral systems shape party systems, what kinds of people become candidates, how parties work, representation, and policy. Covers effects and mechanics of the various voting systems. Offered: jointly with POL S 572. View course details in MyPlan: JSIS B 572 JSIS B 575 Advanced Political Geography (5, max. 10) Provides resources for theorizing how politics shapes and is shaped by geographical relationships. Examines how politics are situated in complex material and discursive geographies that are partly reproduced through political negotiations. Examines interrelationships of contemporary capitalism with other complex systems of social and political power relations. Offered: jointly with GEOG 575. View course details in MyPlan: JSIS B 575 JSIS B 581 Fundamentals of Global Cybersecurity (5) Jessica Beyer Area and international studies approach to investigating nation-state cybersecurity strategy and regional dynamics. Addresses the cybersecurity strategies of major international actors, regional dynamics, famous cyberattacks, and the state of international cybersecurity. Structured geographically. Involves instruction by guest experts. View course details in MyPlan: JSIS B 581 JSIS B 586 Law and Politics of International Trade (5) S. Pekkanen Survey of global trade politics in the context of the World Trade Organization (WTO), with attention to positive and negative aspects of its governance. Examines the impact of the WTO legal framework on trade relations among developed and developing countries. Covers topics such as dispute settlement, development, safeguards, antidumping, intellectual property, and regionalism. View course details in MyPlan: JSIS B 586 Office of the University Registrar registrar@uw.edu Modified: May 30, 2022