Skip to main content Temple University Explore Temple’s Schools and Colleges Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Support Temple Temple University Search Site Search Full Menu Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees President History & Traditions Temple Health News & Media Offices Public Information Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Development Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Libraries Computer Science MS You are here Home Academics Degrees and Programs Computer Science MS Apply Request More Info Computer Science MS Admissions Careers, Internships & Opportunities Required Courses Research & Facilities Scholarships & Financial Aid Master of Science in Computer Science The Master of Science in Computer Science program in Temple’s College of Science and Technology provides a solid foundation in computing with applications in current research topics. Electives within the Computer Science MS allow you to broaden your academic exposure or deepen your knowledge of a particular area of computer and information sciences. For instance, tailor your master’s degree by taking a series of courses related to wireless and mobile networking with security courses to complement the work’s technical aspects. If you are more interested in big data or data science, focus your course selection on applications of artificial intelligence, machine learning, natural language processing, and social data analysis and visualization. After completing the Computer Science MS program, graduates will be able to advance to higher-level graduate research in computer science and related disciplines; implement strong teamwork and leadership abilities, as well as critical thinking and problem-solving skills, in professional contexts; recognize, isolate and solve system implementation problems; and succeed professionally as computer scientists and software engineers. Some graduates of this master’s program pursue further studies, research positions and teaching careers. Others enter professional positions as computer consultants, networking or security specialists, software designers, systems analysts, system or application programmers, or technical leaders. Classes & Curriculum Required and elective courses for the Computer Science MS include Artificial Intelligence, Computer Architecture and Computer Theory, Database Systems and Data Mining, Graphics and Image Processing, Machine Learning, Mobile Application Development, Networking, Operating Systems, and Software Engineering. To complete the master’s degree, you may choose between a final project or thesis. Learn more about Computer Science MS courses. Related Graduate Degrees Computer and Information Sciences PhD Related Graduate Certificates Computer Science Information Science and Technology Scientific Writing Tuition & Fees In keeping with Temple’s commitment to access and affordability, this Master of Science offers a competitive level of tuition with multiple opportunities for financial support. Tuition rates are set annually by the university and are affected by multiple factors, including program degree level (undergraduate or graduate), course load (full- or part-time), in-state or out-of-state residency, and more. These tuition costs apply to the 2021–2022 academic year. Pennsylvania resident: $1,205.00 per credit Out-of-state: $1,567.00 per credit Learn more about our tuition and fees. Our Advisors Faculty advisors will help you to shape your coursework and research activities to align with your goals and academic interests. Tony Hughes is the graduate advisor for the Computer Science MS. Phone: 215-204-7910 Email: anthony.hughes@temple.edu Student Clubs & Organizations If you can find the time to participate while meeting the demands of your degree program, student clubs offer valuable opportunities to meet fellow graduate students, researchers and professionals from science- and technology-related industries. Clubs and organizations for students pursuing a Computer and Information Sciences degree include the Alliance for Minority Participation in STEM, which works to increase opportunities for students and help them complete their undergraduate and graduate degrees in STEM. the Association for Computing Machinery, which promotes the academic, professional and social development of students interested in computer technology. Association for Computing Machinery for Women, an organization that provides support and advocacy for women pursuing careers in technology. Leadership, Education and Development in Science, an organization that empowers Philadelphia middle school students to form an interest in STEM through science experiments and mentors. TU Dev, a community of students with a mutual interest in software design that fosters discussions on emerging trends and technologies in the field. Explore the full list of College of Science and Technology student clubs and organizations. Study Away If the demands of your degree program allow it, consider spending a summer or semester overseas building international connections with researchers from other countries. Temple’s study abroad program offers College of Science and Technology students opportunities to spend a summer or semester studying in China, Germany, Italy, South Korea or Taiwan. Learn more about your study abroad options. Accreditation As a division within Temple University, the College of Science and Technology is accredited by the Middle States Commission on Higher Education. ST-CSCI-MS Additional Program Information Visit College Site View Program Details Go back to AcademicsMore in Computer Science MS Admissions Careers, Internships & Opportunities Required Courses Research & Facilities Scholarships & Financial Aid Apply Request More Info Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Calendar Policies Social Media TUportal TUmail Accessibility Careers at Temple Safety & Emergency Information Ethics & Compliance Privacy Statement Professional Licensure Disclosures Follow Temple University Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community. Apply Request More Info