Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu The Methodist Le Bonheur Center for Healthcare Economics About Us Research Staff & Associates Policies & Annual Reports FCBE Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact Take Action About Us Research Staff and Associates Contact Us Follow Us Online Home Methodist Le Bonheur Center for Healthcare Economics Center News April 2019 The Center for Healthcare Economics is happy to announce that it is funding a Summer Grant proposal by Dr. Jamin Speer this year. His project is entitled, “The STEM Leaky Pipeline for Women: Implications for Health Professions.” Dr. Speer is an Assistant Professor here at the University of Memphis. He specializes in Labor Economics and the Economics of Education. February 2019 Announcement of Departure Dr. Cyril Chang was a Professor of Economics at the Fogelman College of Business and Economics, where he was also the Director of the Methodist Le Bonheur Center for Healthcare Economics. He was a vital part of the Department, College, and University for 37 years. He has retired, effective January of 2019. We in the Department will miss him, but wish him the very best in his retirement. Until a replacement is found, Dr. William Smith, Chair of the Department of Economics, will serve as Interm Director of the Center. Dr. Chang is now a Professor Emeritus of the University of Memphis; Dr. Smith will rely upon his guidance in managing the Center. Announcement of Summer Grants The Methodist Le Bonheur Center for Healthcare Economics is pleased to announce the availability of 2019 summer health care research awards of $10,000 or higher each. Guidelines for this summer research grant program are briefly outlined below: All tenure-track and tenured faculty are eligible to submit proposals, except for new faculty members who will receive summer research support as a condition of their employment. Consistent with the mission of the Methodist Le Bonheur Center for Healthcare Economics, the research proposal must address a pressing health care issue that results in the improvement of population health and/or healthcare delivery in Memphis, Tennessee, and beyond. Topics for research should be consistent with mission and objectives of the Center for Healthcare Economics. Receipt of this special summer research award does not preclude external grants and contracts as long as the University guidelines for summer compensation are observed. Grant recipients are eligible to teach one summer course, depending upon enrollment demand and summer budget availability. All proposals for summer research grants are due in the office of the Department of Economics in Room 400 by Monday, March 18, 2019. Submit One (1) cover sheet with the project title, name of proposer(s) and collaborator(s) and a brief budget outlining how to allocate the award. The investigators can request summer compensation, research expenses or both. The name(s) of the proposer(s) appears on the cover sheet and is not to appear elsewhere in the document to facilitate a blind review of the proposal. Consult the College Summer Research Guidelines for additional information on proposal format requirements. Three (3) hard copies of the titled proposals should be submitted; electronic submissions will not be accepted. All grant recipients must submit a report summarizing the results of their grant activity by the end of finals week of fall semester 2019. A 3-member evaluation committee will rank the proposals and make recommendations. The recipient of the health care research award(s) and the College Summer Research Awards will be announced at the same time. Eligible faculty may apply to both a College Summer Grant and a Health Summer Grant, provided that they have different topics; they may not submit the same topic to both. Newly appointed Assistant Professors receiving summer support from the College may not apply for a Health Summer Grant. The recipients can use the special award to pay for research expenses or for summer pay. If a recipient elects summer pay, the salary paid will be less than the awarded amount as external awards are subject to a UoM fringe benefits charge of 37.1% by University policy. If you have any questions, please contact Dr. William Smith at 901.678.3675 or email wtsmith@memphis.edu. June 2018 Dr. Cyril Chang, the Director of the Center of Methodist Le Bonheur Center for Healthcare Economics, published an op-ed article on the opioid crisis in the Memphis Commercial Appeal. April 2018 The Center of Methodist Le Bonheur Center for Healthcare Economics awarded a summer research grant to Dr. Marla Royne Stafford for her project, “Understanding Adolescents Responses to Cyberbullying: Coping and Dealing with Their Emotional Health.” The Center of Methodist Le Bonheur Center for Healthcare Economics thanks the ad-hoc selection committee for reviewing the proposals and for its recommendations. May 2017 The Methodist Le Bonheur Center for Healthcare Economics is pleased to announce the funding of $8,000 each for the following two summer research projects: Emin Babakus (Department of Marketing & Supply Chain Management), “Employee Engagement and Job Burnout in Frontline Healthcare Jobs: a Study of Nursing Staff at West Cancer Center.” Joonhyung Lee (Economics) and SangNam Ahn (School of Public Health), “A Care Transition Program to Avert ER Visits and Hospital Readmissions: Memphis-Based Health Faith Community Nurse Pilot Project.” March 2016 Do you know how much uncompensated care is provided by hospitals, clinics and physicians in Tennessee? What have been the recent trends of this care for which providers receive no payments? For these and other related issues, please read a recently released Health Care Policy Blog titled, “Uncompensated Care in Tennessee: What Are the Costs? ” by David Mirvis and Cyril Chang. [ News Archive ] Mailing Lists MLCHE now has several topic-based mailing lists, including alerts for new publications. Please visit the Contact Us page for more information and to sign up. Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 8/7/19 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.