Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. Office of Nationally Competitive Awards NCA right arrow down arrow About NCA right arrow down arrow Programs and Events Understanding Fellowships Frequently Asked Questions Contact Us News Awards right arrow down arrow Core Awards right arrow down arrow Fulbright U.S. Student Program Gaither Junior Fellows Program right arrow down arrow Gaither Info Session Goldwater Scholarship right arrow down arrow Goldwater Info Session Marshall Scholarship right arrow down arrow UK Awards Info Sessions Mitchell Scholarship right arrow down arrow UK Awards Info Sessions Rhodes Scholarship right arrow down arrow UK Awards Info Sessions Truman Scholarship right arrow down arrow Truman Info Session Udall Scholarship right arrow down arrow Udall Info Session Priority Awards right arrow down arrow Boren Awards right arrow down arrow Boren Info Session Critical Language Scholarship right arrow down arrow CLS Info Session Fulbright UK Summer Institutes right arrow down arrow Fulbright UKSI Session Gates Cambridge Scholarship right arrow down arrow UK Awards Info Sessions Knight-Hennessy Scholarship National Science Foundation Graduate Research Fellowship Paul & Daisy Soros Fellowships for New Americans Schwarzman Scholarship right arrow down arrow Schwarzman Scholarship Info Session Other Awards right arrow down arrow International Studies International Students Underrepresented and Minority Students Specific Interests or Disciplines Applying right arrow down arrow Deciding to Apply Preparing Your Application right arrow down arrow Recommendation Letters Essay Strategies Developing as a Candidate The Leadership Essay Student Spotlight right arrow down arrow 2021–22 Award Winners 2020–21 Award Winners 2019–20 Award Winners 2018–19 Award Winners NCA Ambassadors Fulbright@UC right arrow down arrow Info Session Recordings UC Fulbright Winners Fulbright Boot Camp Aspire Scholars For Faculty Home » Campus Life » Office of Nationally Competitive Awards » Applying » Developing as a Candidate Set Navigation title in component Deciding to Apply Preparing Your Application Recommendation Letters Essay Strategies Developing as a Candidate The Leadership Essay Developing as a Candidate Ideally, long before you decide to apply, you will take time to familiarize yourself with the various fellowships and identify one (or more!) that interests you. As you research these opportunities, spend time reading their mission statement and description of their ideal candidate, and ask yourself: Are they describing the kind of person I want to become? If the answer is yes, then allow that fellowship to teach you about how you can use your time in college to develop into that person. Turn to the selection criteria. What are the core traits that their awardees exhibit, and how might you develop yourself along those lines? Where are you starting, and how might you challenge yourself to grow from there? Each fellowship has its own criteria, and its own language for describing its ideal candidate. For some awards, there are specific activities you can pursue in order to strengthen your position as an applicant. (Want to be a contender for a Goldwater Scholarship? Then sustained STEM research experience is important. Have your eye on a Fulbright English Teaching Assistant (ETA) grant? Gain relevant experience by teaching, coaching, or tutoring.) Other awards—including many of the ones that support graduate study—focus more on the qualities they seek and are open to candidates who demonstrate those qualities in different ways. Despite the particularity of each fellowship in terms of its mission and criteria, NCA has identified a few trends that emerge across many of the major awards—qualities that fellowship foundations tend to prioritize. Consider your personal and academic trajectory through each of the following lenses: Academics right arrow down arrow Challenge yourself academically. Enroll in classes that intrigue you. At the end of each semester, take a moment to reflect on what you learned in that course and how that course speaks to others you have taken. As you take different courses, what are the kinds of questions, problems, or issues that consistently fascinate you (or anger you or inspire you)? What do you want to know more about? Are there ways for you to engage in research? Leadership right arrow down arrow Many awards look for candidates with substantive, meaningful leadership experience, whether it be on or off campus. This is not necessarily—or merely—positional and should not be confused with mentoring others. Scholarship foundations want to know what you have accomplished as a responsible leader. Can you reflect on a time where you noticed a need or a problem, came up with an idea of how to respond to it, got others on board with your vision, and brought about an impactful change? Community Engagement right arrow down arrow Many fellowships seeks scholars who have found ways to contribute to communities around them. How are you contributing to a campus, local, national, or global community? Why have you chosen your particular commitments or activities, and how do they connect to your academic interests, personal values, and/or professional goals? Mentorship right arrow down arrow It is vitally important that you develop relationships with faculty members. Not only will they provide you with letters of recommendation , but they also can give you invaluable advice and guidance. They can refine your understanding of graduate school, suggest additional readings on topics that interest you, connect you to research opportunities, or advise you on how to engage your interests outside the classroom. On a campus as big as UC, cultivating these relationships will take purposeful effort on your part—go to office hours!—but the academic, professional, and personal benefits are well worth it. We encourage you not to see these awards and their selection criteria as providing a checklist for excellence. Indeed, these scholarships tend not to reward “box checkers,” or people who do things simply because they think they are supposed to do them. Instead, let these awards—and the ideal candidates they describe—inspire you. Allow them to expand the horizons of your imagination as you think about what you might accomplish. Office of Nationally Competitive Awards 707A Swift Hall 513-556-1003 nca@uc.edu UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati Office of Nationally Competitive Awards 707A Swift Hall 513-556-1003 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top