Texas Tech University Directory Raiderlink A-Z Index Office of Communications & Marketing Menu Search TTU Office of Communications & Marketing Emergency Communications Center Coronavirus Information Coronavirus Update: March 09, 2020 Texas Tech University Community, The novel coronavirus (COVID-19) continues to be a global health concern, and Texas Tech University is closely monitoring this ongoing situation. At this time, there are no confirmed or suspected cases among the Texas Tech University community, including those who are currently studying and working outside the United States. Study Abroad Updates and Cancelations We are taking all appropriate precautions to ensure the health and safety of all our students, faculty, and staff. Over the last week, we have planned for the return of a few students who were studying abroad in Italy. Today, we have made the decision to cancel all university-sponsored spring break study abroad trips. The University will refund student deposits for canceled study abroad trips through their student account. Reimbursements for prepaid expenses such as airline change fees, cancellation penalties, and lost travel-related deposits will be reimbursed through the TTU travel system. The Office of International Affairs will assist students in processing such reimbursements.  Students should cancel any remaining reservations as soon as possible in order to obtain possible refunds and/or unused airfare credits. We have 106 students currently studying abroad, including 73 at the TTU Center in Seville, Spain. We are in regular communication with these students and will continue to address matters with them as this situation continues to develop. If CDC guidance in these countries changes, we have plans in place for students to return to campus for the remainder of the semester. To ensure we take every precautionary measure, all individuals returning from countries with travel restrictions must self-quarantine for 14 days . All international educational travel is managed and monitored by the Office of International Affairs . We will make decisions about Maymester and summer study abroad programs on or before March 31. University-Sponsored Travel In addition to the cancelation of university-sponsored spring break study abroad trips, we are also canceling all University-sponsored international travel through April 30. All non-essential, domestic university-sponsored travel through March 31, including activities such as conferences, meetings, and site visits, is discouraged. Please  review all essential travel with your Department Chair or supervisor. This applies to university employees as well Texas Tech University System Administration employees. Personal Travel We urge you to consider delaying all non-essential personal travel. The best way to prevent illness is to avoid exposure to the virus. The CDC also has  resources available for those who must travel during this time. Those returning from personal travel to countries with  travel notices are also required to follow the 14-day self-quarantine . We continue to plan for all scenarios, including the possible impact on face-to-face instruction and the implications for online course delivery. Additional information is available on the CDC Coronavirus Disease 2019 website , and we will be providing ongoing updates on the  TTU Coronavirus (COVID-19) website  as additional information becomes available. Sincerely, Lawrence Schovanec President Texas Tech University Office of Communications & Marketing Address 2625 Memorial Circle, Administration 212, Lubbock, TX 79409 Phone 806.742.2136 Email webmaster@ttu.edu Texas Tech University 2500 Broadway Lubbock, Texas 79409 806.742.2011 Follow Texas Tech University Like Texas Tech University on FacebookLike Texas Tech University on Facebook Follow Texas Tech University on twitterFollow Texas Tech University on twitter Check in with Texas Tech University on FourSquareCheck in with Texas Tech University on FourSquare Subscribe to Texas Tech University on YouTubeSubscribe to Texas Tech University on YouTube Follow Texas Tech University on FlickrFollow Texas Tech University on Flickr Follow Texas Tech University on InstagramFollow Texas Tech University on Instagram Connect with Texas Tech University on LinkedInConnect with Texas Tech University on LinkedIn Contact Texas Tech UniversityContact Texas Tech University Contact Us Campus Map Jobs @ TTU Emergency Communication Center General Policy Information Public Access to Course Info Energy Management Mental Health Resources Title IX Fraud and Misconduct Hotline Online Institutional Resumes TTU System TTU Health Sciences Center TTUHSC El Paso Angelo State University Midwestern State University Statewide Search State of Texas Texas Homeland Security Texas Veterans Portal Texas CREWS SAO Fraud Reporting Open Records Requests © 2022 Texas Tech UniversityMar 10, 2020 9:47 AM Office of Communications & Marketing Marketing Office of Communications & Marketing Marketing Back Identity Guidelines Official Logos Communications Office of Communications & Marketing Communications Back News Office of Communications & Marketing Communications Back Texas Tech Today Monthly e-Newsletter Event Announcements A List Emergency Office of Communications & Marketing Communications Back Emergency Communications Center General Emergency Procedures Social Media Office of Communications & Marketing Communications Back YouTube Facebook Twitter Foursquare Flickr LinkedIn Wikipedia Experts Guide Office of Communications & Marketing Communications Experts Guide Back Experts Guide About Office of Communications & Marketing Back Staff Work With Us Additional Resources TTU HomeDirectory Raiderlink A-Z Index