UHPD Home - University of Houston Police Department - University of Houston Skip to main content Restrict my search to Police Department Submit Close Login to AccessUH Give to UH Search University of Houston Police Department About UHPD General Information History of UHPD UHPD Strategic Vision Become a Police Officer Clery Campus Security Authority Am I a CSA? My Responsibility Get More Info Make a Report FAQs APPLY ONLINE Records & Reports Report a Crime Daily Crime Log Annual Security and Fire Safety Report File a Complaint Give a Compliment Hazard Report Safety & Security Staying Safe Crime Prevention Crime Prevention Services How You Can Prevent Crime Crime Prevention Tips Operation ID Vehicle Accidents Duty to Give Info and Render Aid Crash Involving Damage to a Vehicle Striking an Unattended Vehicle Striking a Fixture or Landscaping Immediate Reporting Police Investigation Resources Sensitive Crimes Violent Incidents Sexual Assault Sex Offender Registry Domestic Violence Hate Crimes Harassment Identity Theft Active Shooter Active Shooter Defined Avoid Lockdown & Deny Alert & Notify Defend & Counter Police Intervention Resources Bomb Threats Explosions Shelter In Place Office Security Community Services Security Escort Blue Light Emergency Phones Camera Network Lost and Found Bike Registration Special Events Money Transfers Policies & Training Campus Carry Policy FAQs Secure Storage Process Senate Bill 4 Racial Profiling Police In-Service Training Civil Protests Contact UHPD Top links ... UH Emergency Information 2021 Annual Security report now available Apply Online Effort, Respect. The University of Houston Police Department is an IACLEA Accredited Law Enforcement Agency Report a Crime Security Escorts Annual Security and Fire Safety Report Active Shooter Response File a Complaint Give a Compliment UH Emergency Information APPLY ONLINE Tweets by @UofHPolice The University of Houston Police Department (UHPD) strives to enable students, faculty, staff and visitors to be safe while pursuing their on-campus endeavors. Every UHPD employee uses three principles to help ensure that the UH campus is a protected, user-friendly venue: Promote and preserve a safe campus environment Identify and implement efficiencies Provide great customer service These principles, in practice, help to make the UH campus a great place to study, work, or visit. Be smart. Be safe. – Ceaser Moore, Jr., Chief of Police Highlights UHPD Made the Grade UHPD was ranked among the top 500 power-players by Security Magazine. Only two Texas schools made the list. We are the only public Texas school highlighted. UH Bike Registration Students, faculty and staff who have a bicycle on campus are required to register it. Registration takes only minutes to complete and is free. A registration sticker will be provided and should be placed on the bicycle. If the bicycle is ever lost or stolen, the University will have the serial number and other identifying information. If the bicycle is recovered, this information makes it much easier to return the bicycle to its rightful owner. Log in to your myParking account through AccessUH to register. Catalytic converter thefts are up nationwide; UHPD has some prevention tips Over the last several years, the theft of catalytic converters from under vehicles has been climbing nationwide. The University of Houston is not immune to this, so UHPD has worked with our local law enforcement partners to produce a video with some tips to help keep your vehicle safe. From engraving or painting your catalytic converter to aftermarket solutions, there are several ways you can reduce the chance that your vehicle is targeted. You can find these and other tips here. 4051 Wheeler Ave. Houston, TX 77204-6191 UH Emergency Information Call UHPD: 713-743-3333 Campus Map For Emergencies Dial 911 from a campus phone Non-Emergency email: police@uh.edu Security Escorts Lost and Found Bicycle Registration ©2022 University of Houston. All rights reserved. Report a problem with this page Texas.gov Texas Homeland Security TRAIL Fraud Reporting Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Linking Notice Privacy Notice Open Records/Public Information Act Institutional Résumé Required Reports Electronic & Information Resources Accessibility Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness University Policies