Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. Campus Recreation Campus Recreation right arrow down arrow Hours & Schedules right arrow down arrow Campus Recreation Center (CRC) Fitness Center at CARE/Crawley Aquatics Fitness Classes Intramurals Climbing Wall Severe Weather Policy COVID-19 Operations right arrow down arrow Fitness Floor Map Virtual Resources Visit right arrow down arrow Getting Started right arrow down arrow Fitness Floor Orientation Equipment Tutorials Parking Facility Hours Terms & Conditions Lockers & Towels Pro Shop FAQ Things To Do right arrow down arrow Fitness Classes right arrow down arrow Online Fitness Fitness Programs & Special Events 30 Minute Workout Area Personal Training Trainings & Certifications Aquatics Climbing right arrow down arrow Policies & Waiver Intramural Sports right arrow down arrow Intramural Sports Rules right arrow down arrow Intramural Sports Handbook 3-on-3 Basketball 5-on-5 Basketball 7-on-7 Football 7-on-7 Soccer 11-on-11 Soccer 4-on-4 Volleyball 6-on-6 Volleyball Dodgeball Futsal Kickball Pickleball Softball Spikeball Tennis Ultimate Wallyball FAQ Racquetball REC Kids Camp right arrow down arrow Parent/Guardian Guide Team Building Pickleball Membership right arrow down arrow Rates & Discounts Fitness Floor Orientation Terms & Conditions Facilities & Rentals right arrow down arrow Facility Rentals Birthday Parties Process Rates Policies Reservation Jobs right arrow down arrow Staff Directory Student Employment Home » Campus Life » Campus Recreation » Things To Do » Fitness Classes Set Navigation title in component Fitness Classes Online Fitness Fitness Programs & Special Events 30 Minute Workout Area Personal Training Trainings & Certifications Aquatics Climbing Policies & Waiver Intramural Sports Intramural Sports Rules Intramural Sports Handbook 3-on-3 Basketball 5-on-5 Basketball 7-on-7 Football 7-on-7 Soccer 11-on-11 Soccer 4-on-4 Volleyball 6-on-6 Volleyball Dodgeball Futsal Kickball Pickleball Softball Spikeball Tennis Ultimate Wallyball FAQ Racquetball REC Kids Camp Parent/Guardian Guide Team Building Pickleball Fitness Classes Group Fitness Classes All group fitness classes are included in your membership at no additional cost! Group fitness classes are offered on a drop-in basis. You don't have to pre-register for group fitness and classes are filled on a first come first served basis. Group Fitness Schedule May 23 - July 1 Check out all of our offerings for group fitness classes. We have classes at the Campus Recreation Center and CARE Fitness Center. CRC Group Fitness Classes Monday right arrow down arrow Class type, time, location and instructor for May 23 -July 1 Class type Time Location Instructor Strength & Sculpt 7-7:45a MPR A Stella Restorative Flow 12-12:45p MPR B Lauren Cycle 5:30-6:15p MPR A CK Pilates 6-6:45p MPR B Brian WERQ 6:30-7:15p MPR A Ella Tuesday right arrow down arrow Class type, time, location and instructor for May 23 - July 1 Class type Time Location Instructor Restorative Flow 5:30p-6:15p MPR B Lauren Bootcamp 6-6:45p MPR A Emily Cardio Barbell 7-7:45p MPR B Maryam Wednesday right arrow down arrow Class type, time, location and instructor for May 23 - July 1 Class type Time Location Instructor Restorative Flow 7-7:45a MPR B Lauren Lunchtime Lift 12-12:30p MPR A Traci Pilates 4:30-5:15p CARE Fitness Center Brian Bootcamp 5:30p-6:15p MPR A Emily Thursday right arrow down arrow Class type, time, location and instructor for May 23 - July 1 Class type Time Location Instructor Strength & Sculpt 5:30-6:15p MPR B Stella Strength 5:30-6:45p CARE Fitness Center Rotating Instructors Cycle 6:30-7:15p MPR A CK Friday right arrow down arrow Class type, time, location and instructor for May 23 - July 1 Class type Time Location Instructor Pilates 12 - 12:30p HIIT Studio Brian CARE Fitness Center Classes CARE Fitness Center Classes right arrow down arrow Class type, time, location and instructor for May 23 - July 1 Class Day Class Type Time Location Instructor Wednesday Pilates 4:30-5:15p Fitness Studio Brian Thursday Strength 5:30p-6:15p Fitness Studio Rotating Instructors Class Descriptions Class Descriptions right arrow down arrow 20/20/20 Three workouts in one! The 20/20/20 class is designed to give you the ultimate challenge and total body workout. Sweat through 20 minutes of cardio, 20 minutes of strength training, and 20 minutes of stretching and core work. Are you ready for the challenge? Barre Looking to lengthen and strengthen your muscles using movements and techniques inspired by Pilates, ballet, and yoga? Join us for Barre! This class utilizes the ballet barre to target your lower body, upper body, and everything in between! With high reps and low weight, get ready to embrace the shake and feel the burn! All fitness levels are invited. Bootcamp With a variety of class structures to keep workouts fresh, each class will consist of strength training intermixed with moderate to high cardio bursts. This class targets all your major muscle groups, ensuring you receive a full body challenge. Cardio Barbell Using a group fitness barbell, participants will be progressively challenged through foundational strength moves that target the entire body. Whether it’s adding weight, changing the tempo or adding a burst of cardio, this class will be sure to push you towards reaching your fitness goals. Capacity is limited to 30 people, so be sure to get there early to claim your spot and set up your equipment! Cycle Whether it's an endurance climb or a series of short intervals, indoor cycling classes are designed to add a great cardiovascular challenge to anyone's weekly workouts. Instructors choose the course each ride takes, motivating you to reach your goals along the way. Cross-training shoes with flat bottoms, towels and water bottles are highly encouraged. All levels are welcome! Capacity is limited to 24 people, so be sure to get there early to claim your spot and set up your equipment! Dance Fusion This class is a great way to let loose and dance your heart out while working out at the same time. You will work your upper body, lower body and core without even thinking about it. Move your body and sweat to the hottest Hip Hop, Pop, Reggaeton, and Latin beats. All dance and fitness levels welcome. Functional Strength This class is a modality of strength training that works multiple areas of the body through compound exercises (rather than focusing on individual muscles) that are used in day-to-day life. Individuals often find improvement in performance of daily activities as well as foundational strength movements while benefiting from a reduced risk of injury and pain. This class is perfect for all levels and will improve performance of all the most important strength movements! HIIT & Core Whether you're training for an event or just want to push yourself further, HIIT, or High Intensity Interval Training is for you with some added core! This quick 45 minute effective workout will get your heart pumping and your muscles moving until you know you've hit your limit. Come ready to work hard and sweat a lot in this class. All levels welcome! Pilates Bring focus and energy to your inner "powerhouse" with this total body conditioning class. Pilates will help to improve your total body alignment, flexibility and build strength with low-impact exercises that deeply engage your breath and focus on core engagement. Designed for every fitness level, all will find a challenge in this class! Pop Pilates Pop Pilates takes classical pilates to the next level by challenging students to rhythmically flow from one exercise to the next, developing a rock-solid core and leaving no muscle untouched. It is a mat-based fusion of ab-chiseling and total body defining moves choreographed to your favorite Top 40 hits. Power Yoga A challenging, flowing sequence of poses that wakes up your body, increases your heart rate and makes you sweat! This class will challenge your body and engage your mind as we go through a sequence of empowering poses that move at a quicker pace. Discover what you are capable of through this unique power flow that will push you to embrace your highest self Strength & Sculpt Push your Pilates mat practice to the max with innovative exercises and the addition of weights to give your body a full body workout. This class will focus on adding definition to your physique with higher reps and lower weight. Total Body Conditioning This class is designed for participants of all fitness levels and will challenge all major muscle groups using traditional strength training exercises and a variety of equipment. We'll use circuits as well as group formats to encourage you to go a little further and feel stronger with each class. All equipment is fair game in this class - steps, bars, dumbbells and BOSUs to name a few! Past Pre-Recorded Classes Campus Recreation Center | 2820 Bearcat Way | Cincinnati OH 45221 | 513-556-0604 Fitness Center at Care Crawley | 3230 Eden Avenue | Cincinnati OH 45267 | 513-558-0604 campusrec@uc.edu UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati Campus Recreation Center | 2820 Bearcat Way | Cincinnati OH 45221 | 513-556-0604 Fitness Center at Care Crawley | 3230 Eden Avenue | Cincinnati OH 45267 | 513-558-0604 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top