Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Fogelman College - Department of Finance, Insurance and Real Estate Welcome Programs Faculty Research Admissions & Current Students FCBE Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact Programs Undergraduate Finance Course Catalog Finance (B.B.A.) Finance, Real Estate Concentration (B.B.A.) Minors Banking and Financial ServicesBusiness FinanceReal EstateRisk Management and Insurance Certificates Financial Analyst & Planning Programs Professional Real Estate Tracks Financial AnalystFinancial Planning Master of Science in Business Administration (M.S.B.A.) concentration in Finance Doctor of Philosophy (Ph.D.) in Business Administration with concentration in Finance Program Rankings Take Action Cook Analytics & Trading Lab Seminars Contact Us Return to FCBE Follow Us Online Facebooktwitter Home FIR Programs Professional Real Estate Program Professional Real Estate Program Program Description The Professional Real Estate program does not require previous training in real estate and is designed for students who desire careers in real estate or for real estate professionals seeking additional training, but not interested in a four year degree in real estate. Real estate opportunities exist in leasing, property management, mortgage lending, corporate real estate analysis, real estate development, real estate investment, real estate valuation and assessment, and brokerage (residential or commercial). Program Requirements The program consists of six required courses (18 hours) - five of these in real estate: FIR 3310 – Principles of Real Estate (3) FIR 3410 – Financial Management (3) FIR 4310 – Real Estate Law (3) FIR 4320 – Real Estate Finance (3) FIR 4340 – Real Estate Appraisal (3) FIR 4350 – Real Estate Investment (3) Other than the Principles class (FIR 3310), each of the advanced real estate classes can be taken at the 6000 graduate level. FIR 3410 also has a graduate version – FIR 7155 that can be taken instead of FIR 3410. Upon request, It is also possible to make substitutions at the graduate level for FIR 3310 so this Professional Real Estate program can be fully offered at the graduate or undergraduate level. The program is independent of any University of Memphis degree program. No transfer credit will be accepted for these six courses. For non-business degree students, there are no prerequisites required. Each of these classes is offered online and on campus. Online classes have the same coverage, rigor, and follow the same time schedule as the University of Memphis. The online option allows the student to complete these courses without leaving their home. Since the online courses are asynchronous, even though they still have set deadlines, they do not require a student to be online at a given time providing the advantage of flexibility. Course offerings have been arranged so it is possible to complete the program in approximately 18 months. Tuition charges for out-of-state students enrolled solely in online courses are comparable to in-state tuition costs. The Professional Real Estate Document of Completion is issued by the Fogelman College of Business and Economics and administrated by the Department of Finance, Insurance and Real Estate. The letter is not posted on the student's university transcript. NOTE: It is incumbent on the student to contact the program advisor, Dr. Mark Sunderman, the final semester of their coursework to receive the Document of Completion. It is also recommended to register with Dr. Sunderman your intent to pursue the program. It will be easier for him to track your progress and schedule classes. Program Advisor Dr. Mark Sunderman Professor and Morris Fogelman Real Estate Chair of Excellence Director, Professional Real Estate Program Fogelman College Administration Building, Rm 436 901.678.5142 | email Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 3/10/22 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.