COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW Details: Industrial Engineering, Master's Master'sIndustrial Engineering All Programs College of Engineering Industrial and Manufacturing Engineering A Master of Science (MS) in industrial engineering from Wichita State will prepare you for high-paying, high-demand career options in design, research, improvement and management of systems in manufacturing and service organizations—as well as for success in a future Ph.D. program. You’ll have access to some of the best research facilities in the country and the chance to work and research with faculty and industry professionals on campus and throughout Kansas’ largest city. Learn how Industrial Engineering is the right fit for you. Request Info Start Your Application Applied learning at Wichita State At Wichita State, applied learning is everything. In fact, every degree we offer has a guaranteed applied learning or research experience built right into it equipping you with the relevant skills and experience to make you workforce ready before graduation. Learn about our innovative approach Admission to the program The program is open to bachelor’s degree holders in engineering, science, business and related areas. To be admitted, you must: Have completed MATH 243 and IME 255 Have a minimum 3.0 GPA in your bachelor's degree and graduate coursework Applicants whose native language is not English must submit official, acceptable scores for either the TOEFL, the Academic Module of the IELTS examination, or the PTE-Academic test For additional admission details, click on the link below. Admission requirements Inside the Program Grad student's career takes flight with Spirit internship As a Shocker, you have access to a huge list of employers that provide internship opportunities for students looking to get hands-on job experience. Business grad Anushiya Shiley Gomes returned to WSU to earn her master’s, and in the process received a coveted internship at Spirit AeroSystems, one of Wichita’s top employers. Her time in the classroom gave her the background to succeed at Spirit. Curriculum Student must select a concentration and submit a plan of study during their first semester. Concentrations include: Operations Research Systems Production and Supply Chain Analytics Quality and Reliability Manufacturing Engineering Human Systems Engineering The program consists of at least 25 credit hours and offers three graduating options: thesis, project or coursework. View the curriculum Careers Whether you’re pursuing a promotion or preparing for a Ph.D., WSU’s vast industry connections, research opportunities and unmatched facilities create an environment for our engineering students to gain the expertise that leads to dream careers. Learn more about careers in this field Similar Programs Mechanical Engineering (Master's) Industrial Engineering (Doctorate) 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©