Skip to main content Google Tag Manager Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Alumni Association Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Alumni Clubs Alumni Community Benefits CAA Arts Access Career Resources Events Get Involved News Columbia Alumni Association You are here: Home Morton Kaish: A Print Retrospective Events Past Event Morton Kaish: A Print Retrospective Share Add to Calendar: Calendar / Outlook Google Yahoo November 9, 2021 - April 22, 2022 10:00 AM - 5:00 PM America/New_York Off-campus The Louise and Bernard Palitz Gallery at Syracuse University Lubin House presents Morton Kaish: A Print Retrospective, on view beginning November 8. Organized by Vanja Malloy, Director and Chief Curator of the museum and Morton Kaish (SU ’49), this retrospective presents an overview of Kaish’s exploration and love of the print medium. Spanning over seven decades, the exhibition of 31 prints of varying media highlights his mastery of traditional and emerging techniques: starting with an early drawing Kaish created as a student at Syracuse University in 1945, through his experimental years in Italy, and culminating in the dramatic color and patterns of his current “Butterflies” series. The Palitz Gallery is located in Syracuse University’s Lubin House at 11 E. 61st St., New York City. Exhibition hours are Monday-Friday, 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. About the Artist Morton Kaish is an American artist whose paintings, drawings and prints can be found in major museums, including the Metropolitan Museum of Art, the Smithsonian American Art Museum, the Fitzwilliam Museum and the British Museum. Kaish’s light and color-filled works have been exhibited nationally and internationally. Notable exhibitions include the Hollis Taggart Galleries and Staempfli Gallery in New York City; Ann Norton Sculpture Gardens, West Palm Beach, Florida; the Museum of Shaffer Art Building | Syracuse, NY 13244 | Tel 315.443.4097 | Fax 315.443.9225 | [email protected] | museum.syr.edu Fine Arts, Boston;The Butler Institute of American Art, Youngstown, Ohio; and the American Cultural Centers in Jerusalem and Rome. Critics have noted Kaish’s powerful ability to combine traditional and experimental painting techniques with contemporary insights, and reviews of his work can be found in The New York Times, The New Yorker, The Christian Science Monitor and TIME, among many other publications. Innovation and Technique April 6, 2022, at 12 pm A gallery talk exploring over 70 years of artwork by American artist Morton Kaish and his processes and techniques emphasizing the artist’s career from his formative years in Italy to the later, lyrical landscapes of Martha's Vineyard and the Hudson River Valley. Led by Richard P. Townsend, director, Kaish Family Art Project. Townsend is an art historian and veteran museum director who has published and lectured widely on a variety of artists and topics. He served as the last director of New York's beloved and much missed Museum of Biblical Art where he organized the landmark exhibition Sculpture in the Age of Donatello in 2015. Click here to register. A Conversation with the Artist April 20 at 6 to 8 pm Vanja Malloy, PhD, Syracuse University Art Museum director and curator of Morton Kaish's print retrospective, engages the exhibiting artist Morton Kaish in a dialogue about a life in art for over 70 years. Click here to register. Contact Information Emily Dittman, Associate Director, Syracuse University Art Museum 315.443.4097 [email protected] Upcoming Events Columbia Alumni Center 622 West 113th Street, Mail Code 4525 · New York, NY 10025 Phone 212-851-7800 Contact Us [email protected] Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close