Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. Learning Commons Learning Commons right arrow down arrow Schedule a Service Programs and Policies right arrow down arrow Academic Coaching right arrow down arrow Meet the Academic Coaches Academic Writing Center right arrow down arrow Meet the Tutors Graduate Tutoring Learning Assistants Learning Communities right arrow down arrow Peer Leader Program Current Peer Leaders Current Peer Leader Coordinators Math & Science Support Center Peer Facilitation right arrow down arrow Current Peer Facilitators Current Peer Facilitator Coordinators Peer Tutoring Success Skills Workshops right arrow down arrow Step by Step Guide to Register Success Skills Workshop Policies Success Skills Workshop Topics Supplemental Instruction right arrow down arrow SI Schedule Supplemental Review Sessions (MATH 1096) Learning Resources right arrow down arrow Note-Taking and Test Strategies right arrow down arrow The Cornell Method for Note-Taking Reading for Main Ideas vs. Details SQ4R: Getting the Most from Your Textbooks PLAN: An Active Reading Strategy How to Ace Your Finals Learning Styles and Study Habits right arrow down arrow Strategies for Aural Learners Strategies for Kinesthetic Learners Strategies for Visual Learners Writing Resources Business Writing Materials right arrow down arrow Resume Writing Tips Cover Letter Tips Memo Writing Tips First-Year Students right arrow down arrow First Semester Checklist Achieve Your Goal GPA Technology Skills Anxiety, Attitude, and Stress right arrow down arrow Managing Stress New Concentration Ideas Look at Your Classes to Find Your Passion Defining Your Career Goals Math Minute right arrow down arrow Math Minute - Algebra Math Minute - Calculus Online Learning Strategies Student Employment right arrow down arrow Academic Coaching Positions Academic Writing Center Positions Front Desk Assistant Positions Learning Assistant Positions Learning Community Peer Leader Positions Peer Facilitator Positions Peer Tutoring Positions Success Skills Workshop Positions Supplemental Instruction Leader Positions SRS Leader & MASS Tutor Positions Professional Staff Home » Campus Life » Learning Commons » Contact Professional Staff Michela Buccini Director michela.buccini@uc.edu Michela is Director of the Learning Commons. She also directly oversees the Academic Coaching program and college Success Plans. Megan Bucks Associate Director bucksmn@ucmail.uc.edu Megan works with faculty who integrate academic supports into their courses. She also oversees the administration of the Supplemental Instruction and Learning Assistant programs, the AWC, the MASS Center, and Supplemental Review Session program. Stacey Martin Assistant Director grippasn@ucmail.uc.edu Stacey oversees the administration of the Learning Community Program and other First-Year Initiatives. She works with Peer Leader Coordinators and Peer Leaders to provide first-year support and mentorship to Learning Communities across campus. Hannah Williamson Assistant Director willih2@ucmail.uc.edu Hannah works with the first-year experience arm of the office. She specifically works with colleges at UC on curriculum development, instructor-led programming, and assessing FYE programs on campus, and oversees the Success Skills Workshop program. Samantha McMahon Senior Academic Services Administrator samantha.marita@uc.edu Samantha oversees the student staff for the Supplemental Review Sessions program and the MASS Center, which provide support for students in Calculus and many other math and science courses. Alaina Peters Academic Services Administrator alaina.peters@uc.edu Alaina oversees the Peer Tutoring program student staff and operations, including managing connections with UC Clermont and Student-Athlete Support Services. Daniel Floyd Academic Services Administrator floyddg@ucmail.uc.edu Daniel oversees the student staff and operation of the Academic Writing Center. Deborah Owens Academic Services Administrator owensdh@ucmail.uc.edu Deborah oversees the Supplemental Instruction and Learning Assistant programs, which provide support to students both inside and outside the classroom. Jacob Steele Academic Services Administrator steeljt@ucmail.uc.edu Jacob oversees the Peer Facilitator Program and provides additional to support to the Learning Communities, Peer Coordinators and Peer Leaders, and other First-Year Initiatives. Courtney Amicon Program Manager truesmcp@ucmail.uc.edu Courtney supports many aspects by coordinating presentation requests, managing external communications, and handling office management and technology. She also oversees the Marketing Intern and all office marketing projects. Rachel Otte Program Manager branscrl@ucmail.uc.edu Rachel oversees the Front Desk Assistants and front desk operations. She also manages all student staff hiring for the Learning Commons. Learning Commons Graduate Students Liz Urban Doctorate of Audiology, AuD She/her/hers Supplemental Instruction/Learning Assistant Graduate Assistant and HR Graduate Student Worker Liz is a first-year graduate student in the College of Allied Health Sciences Doctorate of Audiology (AuD) program. She is a 2021 UC alum, graduating with her Bachelor of Science in Speech & Hearing Sciences. As an undergraduate student, Liz served as a Supplemental Instruction Leader and Mentor for three years. Liz supports the Supplemental Instruction and Learning Assistant programs as a graduate assistant by completing training materials, programmatic materials, and general assistance. She also assists with the Human Resources department as the Graduate Student Worker, where she reviews applications and documentation of new hires. Jenna Kreinbrink Occupational Therapy Assisting Learning Communities and MASS Center Jenna is a first-year graduate student in the College of Allied Health Sciences Master of Occupational Therapy program. She is a recent UC alum, graduating with her Bachelors of Sciences in Health Sciences this past May. During her undergraduate career, Jenna served as a Peer Leader and Peer Leader Coordinator within the Learning Communities program. Jenna supports two of the Learning Commons programs as a graduate assistant - the Learning Communities program and the Supplemental Review Session program/MASS Center - by accomplishing administrative tasks, developing training and programmatic materials, and general assistance throughout our office. Sarah Rinehart M.A Speech-Language Pathology She/her/hers Assisting First Year Experience Sarah is a first-year graduate student in the College of Allied Health Sciences Masters of Arts Speech-Language Pathology program. She graduated from the University of Cincinnati in Spring of 2021 with a Bachelor of Science in Speech & Hearing Sciences. During her time in the program as an undergraduate, she served as a Peer Facilitator, Peer Leader, and Peer Facilitator Coordinator. Sarah assists the Peer Leader and Peer Facilitator programs with training materials, hiring, content for Learning Communities, and other administrative tasks. Yishan Wei M.A Psychology Program, Industrial/Organizational Psychology She/her/hers Peer Tutoring Graduate Assistant Yishan is a second-year graduate student in the Arts & Sciences College, Master of M.A Psychology program. She graduated with her Bachelors of Arts in Psychology in Spring 2020. Yishan served as a Peer Tutor in Fall 2020. Now, Yishan supports the Peer Tutoring program in the Learning Commons as a Graduate Assistant. Yishan is responsible for coordinating collaboration and communication in Peer Tutoring, organizing Peer Tutors' orientation and training, and general assistance of administrative tasks for professional staff. Learning Commons 2510B French Hall West 513-556-3244 Fax: 513-556-0823 learningcommons@uc.edu UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati Learning Commons 2510B French Hall West 513-556-3244 Fax: 513-556-0823 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top