Lena, Jennifer C. (jcl42) Skip to content Skip to primary navigation Skip to search box Skip to admissions quick links Skip to breadcrumb TC Menu Search for people, news & websites Go Resource Links Prospective Students Current Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Quick Links Columbia Library myTC Directory Apply Now Request Info Search Bar Primary Navigation About Academics Admission & Aid Faculty & Research News Give to TC WWW View All Faculty Profiles Home Vitae Documents Jennifer C Lena Associate Professor of Arts Administration Program Director, Arts Administration, Associate Professor, Arts Administration, Courtesy Appointment in Sociology, Co-Editor, Culture and Economic Life book series (Stanford University Press). Office Location: 413B Zankel Office Hours: Spring 2020 by appointment; please email jcl42@tc.columbia.edu. Personal Website TC Affiliations: Arts & Humanities Arts Administration Home Vitae Documents Educational Background Columbia University Ph.D. Sociology, 2003 M.A., M.Phil, 1999 Exams in Social Theory, Methodology, French Language, Sociology of Culture Colgate University B.A., Sociology/Anthropology (Honors), English, 1996 Scholarly Interests Lena is co-editor of the journal Poetics, and co-editor (with Frederick Wherry and Greta Hsu) of a book series, Culture and Economic Life, published by Stanford University Press. She is also the Thesis Advisor for the eMBA program at the Berlin School of Creative Leadership, part of Steinbeis University. She is a past fellow of the Center for Arts and Cultural Policy Studies at Princeton University, and the Curb Center for Arts, Enterprise, and Public Policy at Vanderbilt University, and held faculty positions at Vanderbilt University and Barnard College. She is past Chair of the Sociology of Culture Section of the American Sociological Association. Lena has served as Senior Research Scholar for the Strategic National Arts Alumni Project at Indiana University, and assisted in the development and revision of that survey of over 200,000 graduates from art programs spread across North America. In 2000, she was Inaugural Resident Scholar at the Brooklyn Museum of Art’s show, “Hip Hop America: Roots, Rhythm and Rage.” Lena is reputed to be the first sociologist to commission a Grammy-nominated album: Hilos (composer: Gabriela Frank; performed by ALIAS Chamber Ensemble; released in 2010 by Naxos Records). Lena has also worked as a Visiting Professor at advertising agency DDB Worldwide, and consults for major national and international non- and for-profit arts organizations. Her research focuses on understanding processes of classification, particularly the organizational and institutional conditions for the creation, modification, or elimination of cultural categories. Recently, she has started to publish on related issues within the study of artistic identity, careers, and non-profit arts management. Lena's second book, Entitled: Discriminating Tastes and the Expansion of the Arts, will be published by Princeton University Press September 3, 2019. Utilizing archival and historical methods, in combination with the inductive analysis of traits of several dozen fields, she offers a history and theory of artistic legitimation in the 20th century United States. Lena explores how the legitimation process was harnessed to expand definitions of art (to include graffiti and comics, jazz and computer code), and why such a profound expansion of the arts happened in such a short period of time. In 2012, Princeton University Press published her first book, Banding Together: How Communities Create Genres in Popular Music (in paperback, 2014), which presents a sociological examination of musical genres, conceptualizing them not as collections of similar sounds, but as communities of shared practices. The book was named one of Choice Reviews Outstanding Academic Titles for 2012, and was reviewed in the American Journal of Sociology, Contemporary Sociology, Times Higher Education, and discussed at the Daily Beast, the Freakonomics Blog, and on WNYC’s Soundcheck. Lena's research has been published in peer-reviewed journals including the American Sociological Review, Social Forces, Poetics, and American Behavioral Scientist; and has been reprinted in texts dedicated to highlighting excellence in social science methods, hip-hop scholarship, and the sociology of culture. Dr. Lena has helped to generate over $4.5 million in grants since 1999, including recent grants from the U.S. Department of State, the National Endowment for the Arts, Booth-Ferris Foundation, the Rauschenberg Foundation, and the Warhol Foundation. Selected Publications 2019. Entitled: Discriminating Tastes and the Expansion of the Arts. Princeton University Press. 2012 (2014). Banding Together: How Communities Create Genres in Popular Music. Princeton University Press. 2018. “The Process Model of Closure and Nonprofits: The Exit of Exit Art.” Journal of Arts Management, Law, and Society. Vol. 48 (1): 17-31. 2015. “Genre: Relational Approaches to the Sociology of Music.” Handbook of the Sociology of Art and Culture. Ed. Laurie Hanquinet and Mike Savage (eds.). New York: Routledge. 2015. “Culture, Production of: Prospects for the Twenty-First Century.” International Encyclopedia of the Social and Behavioral Sciences. 2nd Edition. Section Ed. Kees van Rees; Ed. in Chief, James Wright. Elsevier. Pp. 608-613. with Erin Johnston. 2015. “U.S. Cultural Engagement with Global Muslim Communities: Contours and Connections in an Emerging Field.” Grantmakers in the Arts Reader. Vol. 26 (1): 9-13. with Danielle Lindemann. 2014. “Who is an Artist? New Data for an Old Question.” Poetics. Special issue: Art at the Crossroads. Ed. Victoria Alexander and Anne Bower. Vol. 43: 70-85. 2014. “Authenticity and Independence in Rap Music and other Genre Communities.” Explorations in Music Sociology: Examining the Role of Music in Social Life. Pp. 232-240 in Sara Horsfall, Jan-Martijn Meij, and Meghan Probstfield (eds.). Boulder, CO: Paradigm Publishing. 2014. “Making It Work: The Education and Employment of Recent Arts Graduates.” Annual Report on the 2013 Strategic National Arts Alumni Project (SNAAP). With Sally Gaskill, Rebecca F. Houghton, Amber Lambert, Angie Miller, and Steven J. Tepper. Pp. 1-30. Curriculum Vitae Please click the link to download Professor Lena's Curriculum Vitae. Documents Jennifer C. Lena, C.V. September 2019 Academic resume for Jennifer C. Lena; September 1, 2019. Contact Us Teachers College, Columbia University 525 West 120th Street New York, NY 10027 Tel: +1 (212) 678-3000 Map & Directions Directory Ask a Question Resources Admission & Aid Student Life Courses Academic Calendar Office of the Registrar Office of Teacher Education TC NEXT Employment Legal Consumer Information / Student Right to Know Legal Notices Policy Library Non-Discrimination Title IX Compliance Ethics Reporting Public Safety GDPR Notice Make a Gift to TC Diversity Work at TC TC Facebook TC Twitter TC Instagram TC Youtube TC LinkedIn © 2022, Teachers College, Columbia University, New York, NY 10027. Back to skip to quick links