Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Cecil C. Humphreys School of Law About Law Admissions Programs Current Students Faculty Careers Library Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact Programs Degree Programs Degree Programs HomeJDJD/MBAJD/MA in Pol. ScienceJD/MPHMPH Fast-TrackPart-time Program Certificate Programs Certificate Programs HomeAdvocacyBusiness LawHealth LawTax Law Experiential Learning Experiential Learning HomeLegal ClinicsExternship Program Law Review Law Review Home Editorial Board Editor-in-Chief Joining Law Review Virtual Tour of Law Review Suite Symposium Subscriptions Archives Current Volume Connect with Us Advocacy Program Moot Court BoardJoining Moot Court BoardIn-School CompetitionsTravel Team CompetitionsPast Champions Inst. for Health Law & Policy Legal Methods Program Take Action Event Calendars Consumer Information (ABA Required Disclosures) Alumni & Support Contact Memphis Law Follow Us Online InstagramFacebooktwitterYoutubeLinkedIn Home School of Law Programs Law Review Symposium LAW REVIEW ANNUAL SYMPOSIUM COMPETITION IN THE 21ST CENTURY: Can Existing Antitrust Laws Govern a 21st Century Digital Economy? MARCH 4, 2022 CLICK HERE TO REGISTER PROGRAM IS NOW FULLY VIRTUAL The University of Memphis Law Review invites you to attend this entirely VIRTUAL event. The Symposium will explore whether existing antitrust law is sufficient to govern a 21st century digital economy. Modern antitrust law in the United States has developed from the original passage of the Sherman Act in 1890 to a system largely focused on protecting the competitive process and increasing consumer welfare. Is this approach adequate for the rapidly-changing digital economy of the 21st Century, where some claim that companies like Amazon, Apple, Facebook, and Google are reminiscent of the oil and steel trusts which motivated the original passage of the Sherman Act? CLE credit has been approved in Arkansas, Mississippi, and Tennessee. For more information, please contact symposium editor Lexie Haralson at ljhrlson@memphis.edu. Information on registration will be updated on this page as available. For more information contact Symposium editor, Lexie Haralson at ljhrlson@memphis.edu. The event is sponsored in part by the Student Event Allocation. The symposium webinar will be available at https://memphis.zoom.us/j/89168696476?pwd=amZteHBBaFRBMVpSUVpCeHd5N3d6dz09 Meeting ID: 891 6869 6476 Passcode: 180164 Symposium Schedule *All times in Central Time 8:30–9:00 a.m. - Registration 9:00–9:15 a.m. - Welcome and Opening Remarks 9:15–10:00 a.m. - Dr. Ido Baum and Davida (Didi) Lachman-Messer, Senior Lecturers at Haim Striks Faculty of Law, COLMAN; Former Deputy Attorney General—Head of Economic Legislation and Adjunct Professor at Haim Striks Faculty of Law Can the Next Amazon or Facebook be Controlled Before it Becomes too Powerful? 10:00–10:45 a.m. - John Oxenham and Michael-James Currie, Partner Primerio International; Partner Primerio International Recent Competition Policy Considerations in Emerging Markets: Will Enforcement in Digital Markets Represent a Convergence or Divergence with International Competition Law Policy? 10:45–11:00 a.m. - Break 11:00–11:45 a.m. - James Musgrove, Dr. A. Neil Campbell, and Joshua Chad, Partner and Co-Chair of McMillan LLP’s Competition and Antitrust Group; Partner, International Trade McMillan LLP; Partner, Competition, Antitrust, and Foreign Investment McMillan LLP Competition at the Gate: The Application of Canada’s Abuse of Dominance Regime to Digital and Other Gatekeepers 11:45 a.m.–1:00 p.m. - Lunch Break 1:00–1:45 p.m. - Debbie Salzberger, Nikiforos, Iatrou, Gideon Kwinter, Erin Keogh, Partner McCarthy Tétrault LLP; Partner McCarthy Tétrault LLP; Associate McCarthy Tétrault LLP; Associate McCarthy Tétrault LLP The Elephant in the Room: Uncovering the Implications of Data in Merger Reviews 1:45–2:30 p.m. - John Newman, Deputy Director of the Federal Trade Commission’s Bureau of Competition and Professor at University of Miami School of Law 2:30–2:45 p.m. - Break 2:45–3:30 p.m. - Kenneth Reinker, Partner Cleary Gottlieb and former Executive Director of Legal Economics LLC. 3:30–4:15 p.m. - Shin Ru Cheng, JSPS International Research Fellow, Kyoto University. J.S.D. Washington University in St. Louis; MJur. University of Oxford; L.L.M. UC Berkeley; L.L.M. National Taiwan University; L.L.B. National Taiwan University. Admitted to Taipei Bar Association and California Bar Competition Law and Behavioral Discrimination: Regulatory Pitfalls and New Opportunities 4:15–4:30 p.m. - Closing Remarks The University of Memphis Law Review hosts its annual symposium every spring at the Law School. For more information about the most recent past topics and speakers, please visit the links below. 2020: 2019: Barriers at the Ballot Box: Protecting or Limiting the Core of the American Identity? 2018: The American Addiction: Pathways to Address the Opioid Crisis 2017 - The Fragile Fortress: Judicial Independence in the 21st Century 2016 - Urban Revitalization: The Legal Implications of Remaking a City 2015 - In re Valor: Policy and Action in Veterans Legal Aid 2014 - Juvenile Courts in Transition 2013 - Breaking the Silence: Legal Voices in the Fight Against Human Trafficking 2012 - Cultural Competency and the Death Penalty Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 3/3/22 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.