Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Graduate School Future Students Current Students Degrees News & Events Resources Contact Us Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact Take Action Apply Now! Degree Programs Calendar Contact Us Follow Us Online InstagramFacebooktwitter Home Graduate School COVID-19 Response Apply to Graduate School COVID-19 Response: Limited-Time Offers The UofM Graduate School is committed to assisting you in your academic pursuits and offering temporary allowances to further your education in response to COVID-19. Applying to graduate school is an important decision, especially during these challenging times, and our faculty and staff at the Graduate School are here to help you every step of the way. Take advantage of these limited-time opportunities and apply to the UofM Graduate School today. We are waiving standardized test requirements (GRE/GMAT) for many of our graduate programs for Summer and Fall 2022. (See the list of participating programs below.) We are accepting Duolingo, a fully-online English proficiency test, as an alternative to the currently accepted TOEFL/IELTS/PTE. *Applies to international applicants Apply to Graduate School > Standardized Test Waiver Information Select a college below to see a comprehensive list of their departments/programs and whether or not they are offering GRE/GMAT waivers for Summer and Fall 2022. Note, each program has different admission requirements and specifications regarding the standardized test waivers. Program requirements are subject to change. Please continue to check back for the most up-to-date information. For more information, email graduateadmissions@memphis.edu. College of Arts & Sciences Anthropology - Test score requirements will be waived for Summer and Fall 2022 applications. In lieu of test scores, the department will conduct a holistic review of other application materials. Biological Sciences - The department of Biological Sciences will permanently waive the GRE requirement for admission into its graduate programs. Center for Earthquake Research and Information (CERI) - CERI will permanently waive the GRE requirement for admission into its graduate programs. Chemistry - The Chemistry Department will waive the GRE for all students applying for Summer and Fall 2022. City and Regional Planning - The Department of City and Regional Planning is waiving the GRE requirement for all for Summer or Fall 2022 applicants. Computer Science - For M.S. applicants only, GRE scores are optional for Summer and Fall 2022 admission cycles. For Ph.D. applicants, GRE scores are required. Criminology and Criminal Justice - Applicants for the Summer and Fall 2022 semesters will have the GRE requirement waived due to COVID-19 concerns. The Department of Criminology and Criminal Justice is currently assessing the future of the GRE requirement departmentally. Data Science - The Department of Data Science will waive GRE requirements for the Summer and Fall 2022 admission cycles. Earth Sciences - Earth Sciences will be waiving the GRE requirement for the Summer and Fall 2022 admission cycles. English - Department of English has permanently waived GRE requirements. This includes the Creative Writing program. History - Department of History has permanently waived GRE requirements. Mathematical Sciences - Due to the COVID-19 pandemic, the Department of Mathematical Sciences will waive GRE requirements for the Summer and Fall 2022 semesters, as well as Spring 2023. Philosophy - The Department of Philosophy has eliminated the GRE as a required test for admission to the MA and PhD programs. Physics and Material Science - The Department of Physics will waive GRE requirements for applicants applying for the for Summer or Fall 2022 semesters. Political Science - Political Science will temporarily waive the standardized test requirement (GRE or LSAT) for their MA program for Summer and Fall 2022 applicants. Public and Nonprofit Administration - Department of Public and Nonprofit Administration is waiving the GRE permanently for all future admission cycles and is placing a high emphasis on the applicant’s personal statement. However, the GRE may be submitted if the applicant opts to add it as a supplemental document for consideration. Psychology - GRE scores will not be required for applicants to any of the five psychology graduate programs (Ph.D. Clinical, Experimental, or School; Master in General Psychology; Master of Arts/Educational Specialist School Psychology) for Summer or Fall 2022 semesters. Social Work - The Master of Social Work program will waive both GRE and Praxis scores for Summer and Fall 2022 admission cycles, but they are requiring a writing sample in lieu of these tests. Applicants may submit a writing sample in the 'applicant uploaded documents' section in the application. Preferably, this would be a research paper or something similar from the applicant’s undergraduate work that showcases his/her best writing abilities. Applicants are welcome to submit GRE or Praxis results in lieu of a writing sample if they so desire. The Doctoral Social Work program will still require GRE scores. Sociology - The Department of Sociology will waive test score requirements for MA applicants for the Summer and Fall 2022 admission cycles. SUAPP: Urban Affairs PhD Program - The Urban Affairs PhD program will waive the GRE requirement for Summer and Fall 2022 applicants. However, these scores may be submitted to support the application. World Languages and Literatures - The Department of World Languages and Literatures does not require GRE scores for their MA in Romance languages with a concentration in French and Spanish degree. Fogelman College of Business & Economics The following business programs will allow GRE/GMAT waivers for Summer and Fall 2022 applicants who meet one of the four exemption criteria, which can be found here. If you have questions about whether you qualify, please contact the program coordinator. Online MBA Professional MBA MS in Information Systems (MSIS) The following programs will require GMAT/GRE scores for Spring 2022 admissions. MS in Accounting MA in Economics MSBA in Finance All Doctoral programs College of Communication and Fine Arts (CCFA) Rudi E. Scheidt School of Music They have waived the requirement for the GRE in the Ph.D. musicology program. None of their other programs require the GRE. Department of Architecture The Department of Architecture is waiving the GRE requirement for Master of Architecture applicants applying for Summer or Fall 2022. Department of Art GRE will be required for all future applicants for the MA in Art History. Department of Communication and Film The Department of Communication and Film will permanently waive GRE requirements. Department of Journalism & Strategic Media The Department of Journalism and Strategic Media will waive GRE requirements for all future admission cycles. School of Communication Sciences and Disorders The School of Communication Sciences and Disorders will require GRE scores for Summer and Fall 2022 admission. College of Education The following Masters of Science (MS) programs offered by the College of Education’s Instruction and Curriculum Leadership Department will waive GRE scores until further notice: Applied Behavior Analysis Early Childhood Elementary Education Instruction and Curriculum Instructional Design & Technology Literacy Education Secondary Program Special Education The Doctoral (EdD) Programs offered College of Education’s Instruction and Curriculum Leadership Department will waive GRE scores until further notice: Applied Behavior Analysis Early Childhood Education Instruction and Curriculum Literacy Education Special Education The Instructional Design & Technology (IDT) masters and doctoral programs will require GRE scores for admission. The Leadership Department (which includes EdD Higher & Adult Education, EdD Leadership & Policy Studies and MS Educational Leadership and Policy Studies) has decided to waive the GRE permanently. The Master of Art in Teaching (MAT) Programs do not require the GRE for admission. The Department of Counseling, Educational Psychology & Research (CEPR) is comprised of the following programs: Counseling (Masters and PhD) Counseling Psychology (PhD) Educational Psychology and Research (Masters and PhD) All masters and doctoral programs in the CEPR Department require the GRE except for the MS in EDPR program which is continuing to waive their GRE requirement. Herff College of Engineering For MS applicants not seeking a graduate assistantship, the Herff College will waive the GRE requirements for Fall 2022 applicants to the following programs: MS Electrical and Computer Engineering MS Engineering Management MS Engineering Technology Applicants to the PhD program and all other MS program applicants (MS Biomedical Engineering, MS Civil Engineering and MS Mechanical Engineering) must provide GRE scores. College of Health Sciences The College of Health Sciences will waive the GRE requirement (it is optional) for admission to their respective graduate programs except for the Clinical Nutrition concentration. The following Nutrition concentrations will waive the GRE requirement: Environmental Nutrition Nutrition Science The following Health Studies concentrations will waive the GRE requirement: Exercise Nutrition Exercise, Sport & Movement Sciences Health Promotion Physical Education Teacher Education The following Applied Physiology & Neuromechanics Ph.D. concentrations will waive the GRE requirement: Applied Physiology & Nutrition Applied Biomechanics Kemmons Wilson School of Hospitality & Resort Management The Kemmons Wilson School of Hospitality and Resort Management does not require a GRE for their graduate programs. They consider the holistic application of the student including GPA, references, resume/experience, and a statement of interest. They do review GRE scores if a student has them, but they do not require the students to have taken the GRE to be accepted in their programs. Loewenberg College of Nursing Nursing does not require GRE scores for their programs. They only have a GRE requirement for the Nursing Ph.D. program if GPA scores are not available. These situations are reviewed on a case-by-case basis. Cecil C. Humphreys School of Law The law school is still requiring the LSAT. College of Professional and Liberal Studies The College of Professional & Liberal Studies does not require GRE scores. School of Public Health We are pleased to confirm that all the graduate programs in the School of Public Health will extend their waiver of the GRE requirement for applicants applying for the Summer and Fall 2022 semesters. The graduate programs include: Master of Public Health (MPH) Master of Health Administration (MHA) Master of Science in Biostatistics (MS Biostatistics) PhD in Epidemiology and Biostatistics PhD in Social and Behavioral Sciences (Note that the PhD in Health Systems and Policy is not accepting applications.) Last Updated April 2022 Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 4/21/22 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.