Skip to main content Skip to primary site menu Google Tag Manager Search form Search Brown University A-Z Index People Directory Students Alumni Careers News Events Search Give Explore Brown University's School of Public Health Admissions Academics Research Faculty About Diversity Admissions Academics Research Faculty About Diversity A-Z Index People Directory Students Alumni Careers News Events Department of Behavioral and Social Sciences Home About Degree Programs Research People Leadership & Administration Faculty Current Doctoral Students BSHS Alumni News Resources Site Navigation Home About i-BSHS Seminar Series Innovations Award BSS Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Degree Programs Doctoral Program Master’s Program Research Alcohol use & misuse Chronic disease prevention and management Drug use and misuse Global Health HIV, sexually transmitted infections, and reproductive health Health disparities and health equity Lesbian, gay, bisexual, and transgender health Mindfulness Obesity, nutrition, and physical activity Smoking and tobacco use People Leadership & Administration Faculty Current Doctoral Students BSHS Alumni News Resources For Faculty For Current Doctoral Students Current Doctoral Students Students in the School of Public Health’s newest Doctoral Program, in Behavioral and Social Health Sciences (BSHS), come from all over the country, and all over the world. Meet them here: Anna Alikhani Advisors: Patricia Risica, Diana Grigsby-Toussaint Anna Alikhani is a third-year doctoral student who focuses on issues impacting maternal and child health outcomes. Her primary research interests involve infant feeding practices, responsive parenting and cannabis use during the perinatal and postpartum periods. Anna holds a BA from Sewanee: University of the South and received an MSW from the University of Maryland School of Social Work and an MPH from the Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School of Public Health. Holly Boyle Advisors: Jennifer Merrill, Kate Carey Holly Boyle is a fourth-year doctoral student who holds a BA in Neuroscience and Psychology from Smith College and two master’s degrees, a MA in psychology from Mount Holyoke College and an ScM in Behavioral and Social Health Sciences from Brown University. Prior to coming to Brown, Holly worked on several research projects as a lead clinical research coordinator at Geisel School of Medicine at Dartmouth College. Her research interests include exploring (1) psychosocial determinants of alcohol use in college students, (2) the interplay between stress levels and substance use, (3) and mHealth and eHealth interventions designed to address real-time, risky drinking behavior in a college student population. Chase Bryer Advisor: Jeffrey Proulx Chase Bryer (pronouns: he/him/his) is a first-year doctoral student interested in using community-based participatory methods to improve health outcomes among Indigenous LGBTQ+ and Two-Spirit communities. Prior to Brown, Chase was selected as a Kathryn M. Buder Scholar at the Buder Center for American Indian Studies where he focused on understanding the historical and contemporary issues facing Native communities from cultural, policy, and practice perspectives. His research, ultimately, aims to inform state actors including social workers, public health professionals, and biomedical researchers with ways to more sensitively engage with marginalized communities through resilience-based approaches to disrupt cycles of historical trauma. Chase holds an MSW from Washington University in St. Louis and a BA in Human Rights and Media from the University of Oklahoma. Ashley Gomez Advisors: Lynn Hernandez, Jennifer Nazareno, Don Operario Ashley Gomez is a fourth-year doctoral student whose primary research interests are the health of Latinx families, Latina entrepreneurship, and the intersection of identity and place. Prior to Brown, she worked with government agencies, nonprofits, and community-based organizations to promote health equity and access for Latinxs in the U.S. and abroad. Ashley holds an MPH degree in Sociomedical Sciences and a certificate in Public Health Research Methods from the Mailman School of Public Health at Columbia University, New York City. She also holds a B.A. in Chicanx Studies from UCLA. John Guigayoma Advisors: Tyler Wray, Sara Becker John Guigayoma is a third-year doctoral student interested in the development and evaluation of behavioral health interventions to address disparities in HIV prevention and treatment outcomes among sexual and gender minorities. Prior to Brown, John coordinated HIV services in various community clinic settings throughout California as well as worked in HIV surveillance for the San Francisco Department of Public Health. His interests also include mixed-methods research, behavioral health technology, and implementation science. John has an MPH in Health and Social Behavior from UC Berkeley and an BA in Comparative Literature from UCLA. William Lodge II Advisors: Katie Biello, Matthew Mimiaga William Lodge II is a doctoral student focused on HIV primary and secondary prevention research—both domestically and in resource-constrained settings across the globe. His research interests include investigating barriers and facilitators to suboptimal antiretroviral therapy (ART) adherence among gender and sexual minorities living with HIV. His proposed dissertation uses a syndemic approach to understand the impact of substance use and other psychosocial factors on ART adherence among transgender women in India. Before Brown, he worked for several years at Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health and Harvard Medical School on a range of research projects such as knowledge and attitudes on polio immunization, Ebola and Zika viruses, quality of surgical care, and cost-effectiveness of a national immunization program. While his work has primarily been focused in South Asia, he has also worked on projects in Tanzania, Somalia, Guinea Bissau, the Democratic Republic of the Congo, and the United States. Rachel Mealy Advisors: Akilah Dulin, David Williams Rachel Mealy is a third-year doctoral student who holds an undergraduate degree from the University of Akron in Ohio, where she completed a BS in Exercise Physiology, with a second major in Spanish, and a minor in Psychology. Rachel also holds an MS in Global Health from the University of Notre Dame. She is interested in applying mixed-methods approaches and systems thinking to study the relationship between multilevel resilience resources and cardiometabolic disease management. Mikey Mercedes Advisors: Jennifer Nazareno, Don Operario Marquisele Mercedes is a third-year doctoral student who holds a BA in English Literature, Language, and Criticism from Hunter College and a certificate in Public Policy from the Roosevelt House Public Policy Institute. She is interested in using mixed methods research and critical theories to understand how stigma impacts people in larger bodies as they come into contact with health institutions and professionals. Her intersectional analyses of these experiences are shaped by the field of fat studies and scholarship on race/ism. Her overarching goal is to inform and shape interventions that improve quality of life for all fat people. She is a recipient of the Brown University Presidential Fellowship and a former Ronald E. McNair Scholar. Madeline Montgomery Advisors: Madina Agénor, Kate Carey Madeline Montgomery (pronouns: she/her/hers) is a fourth-year doctoral student who holds a BA in Anthropology and Women, Gender, and Sexuality Studies from St. Mary’s College of Maryland and an MPH from Brown University. Madeline’s research interests include healthcare utilization and health communication among queer women, with a focus on sexual health and minority strengths. Madeline is motivated by the goal of promoting health equity and meaningful inclusion in research of queer and trans persons and other systemically oppressed populations. Bill Nardi Advisors: Judson Brewer, Kate Guthrie Bill Nardi is a second year doctoral student interested in patient-oriented research for the development of comprehensive, integrative treatments for comorbid substance use and anxiety. Specifically, his work focuses on designing and testing mobile health applications as adjunctive therapies to primary substance use treatments utilizing mixed methods research. Bill holds an ScM from Brown University. Siobhan Perks Advisors: Jennifer Merrill, Kate Carey Siobhan Perks is a first-year doctoral student interested in understanding motivations and risk/protective factors for substance use among adolescents and young adults. She is interested in developing and evaluating health behavior interventions for at-risk drinkers that reduce negative alcohol-related consequences and the co-use of or progression to other substances, like tobacco. Prior to Brown, Siobhan worked at Truth Initiative, where she focused on the formative and summative evaluation of large-scale health communication campaigns to influence tobacco-related attitudes, beliefs, and behaviors of youth and young adults. Siobhan holds an MPH in Epidemiology from Emory University and a BA in Biostatistics and Global Public Health from the University of Virginia. Ma. Irene Quilantang Advisor: Don Operario Ma. Irene Quilantang (pronouns: she/her/hers) is a first-year doctoral student who holds a BS in Behavioral Sciences from the University of the Philippines Manila, a MA in Psychology (Clinical) from the University of the Philippines Diliman, and a ScM in Global Public Health from Brown University. Irene is interested in the development and implementation of culturally sensitive behavioral health interventions that address HIV among young populations in low- and middle-income countries, particularly in the Philippines. Her overarching goal is to contribute to efforts aimed at decolonizing public health. Prior to joining Brown University, Irene worked as a behavior therapist for kids with learning disabilities and as an assistant professor of psychology and behavioral sciences at the University of the Philippines Manila. At present, Irene is a NIH Fogarty Fellow under the NIH-Fogarty Training Program for the Prevention of HIV in Vulnerable Populations, and an active member of the Philippine Health Initiative for Research, Service, and Training (PHIRST). E. Karina Santamaria Advisors: Don Operario, Kate Carey E. Karina Santamaria is a doctoral student who holds two degrees from the City University of New York: a BA from the City College of NY in Psychology and an MPH from Lehman College in community-based public health and health equity. In her role as research project director at the HIV Center for Clinical and Behavioral Studies, at the New York State Psychiatric Institute and Columbia University, she managed a longitudinal study examining the burden of HIV infection during different stages of adolescence and its relationship to mental health, successful adult transition, and risk behavioral outcomes. Karina has collaborated on several other studies investigating factors that affect medical adherence among HIV seropositive mothers and youth from inner city neighborhoods, including psychiatric disorder, stress, family functioning, and social support. Her research interests are focused on the health behaviors and psychological functioning of women and youth living with HIV/AIDS, and on intimate partner violence. She is interested in the role of culture, race, gender, and urban stressors in shaping health behaviors and outcomes. Ellis Silva Advisors: Diana Grigsby-Toussaint, Jennifer Pellowski Ellis Silva is a second-year doctoral student who holds a BS in Biology from Northeastern University and an MPH from Brown University. She is interested in using mixed-methods approaches to examine the relationship between food insecurity and social support in low- and middle-income countries, particularly in sub-Saharan Africa. She is a recipient of the Diversity Fellowship provided by the Graduate School, and hopes to use this funding to focus her research on improving health outcomes for vulnerable populations. Anthony Surace Advisors: Christopher Kahler, Peter Monti Anthony Surace is a fifth-year doctoral student who holds an MA degree in Psychology from Hunter College. Prior to attending Brown, he worked for several years on myriad federally-funded research studies examining health behavior among minority populations. These include work on designing and evaluating interventions to improve Pre-Exposure Prophylaxis (PrEP) uptake, and reducing alcohol and substance use among populations at risk for HIV infection. He is interested in elucidating the psychosocial factors which attenuate substance use intervention efficacy. Ultimately, his goal is to tailor treatments to better serve at-risk populations. Pablo K. Valente Advisors: Katie Biello, Matthew Mimiaga Pablo K. Valente is a fourth-year PhD candidate interested in using quantitative and qualitative methods to study the relationship between socioeconomic status, stigma, and health disparities in access to HIV prevention and treatment among vulnerable populations. In his dissertation, he is studying how patient interactions with health systems and healthcare providers may shape access and preferences regarding biobehavioral HIV prevention technologies among sexual minority adolescents. Prior to attending Brown, he provided clinical care to people living with HIV in Brazil and studied health disparities among LGBTQ individuals in the US, Brazil, and East Africa. Pablo holds an MD from University of Brasilia, Brazil, with a residency in Infectious Disease at Instituto de Infectologia Emilio Ribas in Sao Paulo, Brazil. Pablo also has an MPH in Sociomedical Sciences/Infectious Disease Epidemiology from Columbia University. Alison Weber Advisors: Jennifer Pellowski, Abigail Harrison Alison Weber is a third-year doctoral student who holds a BA in Biology and Spanish from Mount Holyoke College and an MPH from Brown University. Prior to Brown, she worked in quality control testing for pharmaceutical and medical device companies. Her research interests are centered around global maternal health. Her work focuses on 1) the health of women living with HIV in global south contexts, particularly in South Africa and 2) maternal health equity in the United States. She is interested in using mixed methods designs and intersectionality to understand structural racism in the United States and drive health equity within the context of maternal health. People Leadership & Administration Faculty Current Doctoral Students BSHS Alumni Department of Behavioral and Social Sciences Department of Behavioral and Social Sciences Brown University Box G-S121-4 Providence, RI 02912 Phone: 401-863-6578 Fax: 401-863-6697 Email [email protected] Facebook Facebook Brown University Giving to Brown 121 South Main Street, Providence, Rhode Island 02903, USA 401-863-3375 Contact Us Newsletter Maps Directions Career Opportunities Campus Safety Accessibility Brown Social Media © 2022 Brown University | Back to top