Skip to main content Temple University Explore Temple’s Schools and Colleges Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Support Temple Temple University Search Site Search Full Menu Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees President History & Traditions Temple Health News & Media Offices Public Information Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Development Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Libraries Kinesiology Major You are here Home Academics Degrees and Programs Kinesiology Major Apply Visit Request More Info Kinesiology Major Accreditation Admissions Departmental Research Fieldwork & Internships Required Courses Scholarships & Financial Aid Bachelor of Science in Kinesiology The Bachelor of Science in Kinesiology at Temple’s College of Public Health prepares students to enter a variety of jobs in the fitness and wellness, health promotion, and physical activity fields. You will learn about kinesiology through an interdisciplinary curriculum that teaches you best practices for promoting physical activity among diverse client populations, including people of various ages. Kinesiology is the study of human movement. Sedentary lifestyles and a lack of physical activity are major public health issues for populations around the world. Graduates of the kinesiology program will be equipped to address public health challenges by helping people experience the benefits of physical activity and exercise, and live healthy and fulfilling lives. The Bachelor of Science in Kinesiology provides multiple career options—there is a high demand for professionals in fields that integrate health, physical activity and well-being. This demand is expected to continue in the future, particularly because physical activity is one of the most important public health strategies for preventing and managing chronic diseases. Our graduates work in many settings, including private companies, organizations and government public health agencies that promote fitness and wellness, as well as healthcare systems and rehabilitation centers. Potential jobs include health and fitness specialist, well-being coach, fitness/wellness manager, physical activity director and recreation center manager. What sets apart our Bachelor of Science in Kinesiology? An innovative curriculum: The program includes a set of kinesiology core courses combined with a choice of courses from across the College of Public Health, which provides students with an interdisciplinary perspective. A flexible degree: Students can tailor the program curriculum by choosing elective courses that reflect their career interests. A renowned department: Temple’s Department of Kinesiology is recognized across the region for its top-tier education. Our faculty members are experts in their areas of focus, and use their professional connections throughout the Philadelphia area to help students obtain real-world experience and rewarding careers. Program Format Students complete 120 credits in the Kinesiology program, including 41 credits of core courses, 21 credits of elective courses (specialized topics in kinesiology and public health), and 18 credits of free electives that give you the flexibility to meet your employment goals and pursue a minor if you choose. See a full list of program courses. Our Academic Advisors The College of Public Health offers extensive, personalized advising services to students in each department. Our advising staff will work with you to set goals and help you reach your academic potential. Meet our academic advisors. Related Graduate Degrees Students can pursue a range of advanced degrees after graduating from the Kinesiology BS program depending on their interests and career goals. MS in Athletic Training MS in Kinesiology, Concentration in Integrative Exercise Physiology Master of Public Health in Social and Behavioral Sciences Master of Occupational Therapy Doctor of Physical Therapy Related Undergraduate Degrees BS in Exercise and Sport Science BS in Health Professions BS in Public Health Student Organizations You can engage with peers and find leadership opportunities in student-led clubs and organizations in the College of Public Health. Learn more about student clubs and organizations. Study Away Become an informed, active global citizen and enrich your education by studying away. Explore Temple’s study abroad opportunities, including information about specific programs and visas, as well as resources on cultural adaptation, diversity matters, and health and safety. Learn more about studying away. Tuition & Fees In keeping with Temple’s commitment to access and affordability, the Bachelor of Science offers a competitive level of tuition with multiple opportunities for financial support. Tuition rates are set annually by the university and are affected by multiple factors, including program degree level (undergraduate or graduate), course load (full- or part-time), in-state or out-of-state residency, and more. Learn more about our tuition and fees. These tuition costs apply to the 2021–2022 academic year. Pennsylvania resident: $20,184.00 per year Out-of-state: $35,016.00 per year HP-KINS-BS Additional Program Information Visit College Site View Program Details Go back to AcademicsMore in Kinesiology Major Accreditation Admissions Departmental Research Fieldwork & Internships Required Courses Scholarships & Financial Aid Apply Visit Request More Info Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Calendar Policies Social Media TUportal TUmail Accessibility Careers at Temple Safety & Emergency Information Ethics & Compliance Privacy Statement Professional Licensure Disclosures Follow Temple University Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community. Apply Visit Request More Info