Skip to main content Menu Resources Home Admissions Campus Life Academics Visit Outreach Research About Apply or Give Apply Now Make a Gift Pam Hendrix Center for Education Abroad Frequently Asked Questions Program Specific FAQ Faculty-Directed Programs Where do I pay my program fee? When you apply online, you will be required to submit a non-refundable application fee. In some instances, students may be required to pay a program deposit (once they have been accepted to the program) in addition to the application fee. All subsequent payments are made via iROAR and follow the Clemson tuition bill schedule. My tuition bill isn’t posted yet—what’s wrong? Study abroad tuition bills are paid just like regular tuition bills — via the iROAR interface. Please see the iROAR billing page for the billing dates for each term. Do I have to come to pre-departure orientation if my professor has already held meetings for the program? Yes—all Clemson University students going abroad on any program have to attend the general Pre-Departure Orientation. If you are unable to attend any of the sessions due to a class, exam, work commitment, or family emergency, you can contact us and we will send you supplemental material. When will I know if I’ve been accepted? Each program recruits and accepts students in different ways and at different rates. You will be notified of your application status through your online application. If you have not heard back regarding your acceptance several weeks after the program deadline, contact the faculty leader directly to follow up. The Pam Hendrix Center for Education Abroad does not have any role in your acceptance after you submit your online application. How do I purchase insurance? Students participating in any of Clemson’s faculty-directed programs pay for international insurance coverage through CISI as part of their program fee, and it is purchased on their behalf. These students do not need to independently purchase Clemson’s international insurance. Exchange Programs How do exchange programs differ from other study abroad programs? Exchange programs involve reciprocal movement of students between two partner institutions. This could be a student-to-student exchange, or a specified number of incoming students may be accepted per outgoing student. Students apply through the Pam Hendrix Center for Education Abroad to participate in an exchange with one of our partner universities. Once nominated, the student will receive an email with instructions to access the host university’s online application and chooses courses as part of this process. The Clemson student pays Clemson in-state tuition and fees, exchange fee, and the study abroad fee to Clemson and other costs (i.e. housing) to the host university. Please note, credit values vary from country to country, and course credits abroad do not always equal a 3 or 4 credit course at Clemson. Students who are transferring credits from a foreign institution should consult the study abroad conversion document for information about credit transfer from their host university. Please discuss any questions with your study abroad coordinator. When will I receive my acceptance letter? Different exchange partners have different deadlines in their international offices for confirming their outgoing and incoming students. You will probably receive official confirmation of your acceptance later in the semester (October, April) due to these internal deadlines, not because you are a less qualified candidate for an exchange program. I can’t be sure which courses I’ll enroll in once I arrive. How do I fill out the coursework form? If you cannot access the course offerings for the current term, fill out the form based on the most recent courses you can access and make changes while you are abroad or when you return to Clemson. Can I go to my friend’s university on an exchange program? Can my friend come to Clemson as an exchange student? If your friend’s university is one of Clemson’s exchange partners, then you or your friend can apply for the exchange through your campus’ offices (you would apply through the Pam Hendrix Center for Education Abroad). If the foreign university is not an exchange partner, you will need to apply directly to the university and meet with a study abroad adviser to make sure that your application process is correct. You will not receive the Clemson University in-state tuition rate if you directly apply to a non-exchange foreign university. Can I decide to stay for another term once I’m at my host university? If you are interested in staying a second semester, you should contact the Pam Hendrix Center for Education Abroad and your academic adviser in plenty of time to discuss and coordinate an application. Where do I pay for my exchange program? Exchange students pay in-state tuition & fees and are billed via iROAR along with the study abroad fee. Please refer to the iROAR billing page for the billing dates for each term and the Student Financial Services page for current tuition rates. Any other program fees (i.e. housing) are paid to the host institution. Mandatory CISI insurance is purchased on the CISI website linked in your online application. Please note, some countries require additional national insurance that will be paid to the provider. Third-Party Programs Are there providers that the Pam Hendrix Center for Education Abroad recommends? The Pam Hendrix Center for Education Abroad maintains a list of approved providers and only those come up in our search engine. We make individual recommendations based on each student’s needs and interests. Will I stay with a host family? Some programs coordinate homestays with host families for summer or semester programs; others house students in dormitories or local apartments. If this is a priority for you, your study abroad coordinator can help you find programs for your preferred accommodation style. Are there internship opportunities? Yes, there are! Some providers offer internships as part of a study abroad program and others coordinate separate volunteer or internship programs. Search for “Internship” on our Program Search page. I had to submit my passport and travel information to my provider—do I have to give it to the Pam Hendrix Center for Education Abroad, also? Yes, you need to upload these documents to your Clemson online application. Our third-party providers do not share application documents with us. General FAQ Topics Requirements When should I start planning? The sooner, the better! When you start early, you’ll have more time to research in-depth and find a program that suits your personal and academic needs. You can also take advantage of scholarships that often have early deadlines. What are the GPR requirements to study abroad? A 2.75 GPR is preferred, a 2.5 is the minimum. Some programs may have higher GPR requirements. In some cases exceptions are possible. If your GPR does not meet the minimum, you should contact the Pam Hendrix Center for Education Abroad to discuss your specific circumstances. Can non-Clemson students participate in Clemson programs? Yes, non-Clemson students can participate in Clemson University faculty-directed programs. Please contact our office for details. Please note, we do not coordinate exchange or third-party programs for non-Clemson students. Do I need to speak a foreign language? Most programs do not have a foreign language requirement and offer courses conducted in English even if the host country’s first language is not English. Students who wish to focus on language study while abroad can find programs with a foreign language emphasis. Some programs offer a combination of courses taught in English and the language of the host country. Should you take a full course load while studying abroad? Study abroad students typically take the same course load as they would at Clemson (12 - 18 credits for semester programs and 3-12 credits for summer programs). This is especially important for students on financial aid. Students should discuss the requirements for their specific aid package with their financial aid advisor. Can I apply to two programs at once? We don’t recommend applying to more than one program as most programs require non-refundable application fees. Your study abroad advisor will help you determine which program is right for your needs or help you find a new program should you not be admitted to your first-choice program. Will I graduate on time? A common misconception about studying abroad is that it will prevent students from graduating on time. Students work with their academic advisor and study abroad advisor to find a program that fits their curricular needs, so they meet degree requirements during their international program. This is one reason why students’ planning with academic and study abroad advisors is crucial. Application Process How do I get started with the study abroad process? Study abroad requires careful planning, and getting an early start is always a good idea. To start the study abroad process, please follow the simple steps on our How to Apply Page. What insurance coverage do I need? Is insurance mandatory? All students who participate in university-affiliated international travel are required to have international health and emergency insurance. Clemson University’s study abroad insurance is provided by Cultural Insurance Services International (CISI). For more information on study abroad insurance, please visit our Insurance page. Students participating in faculty-directed programs pay for international insurance coverage as part of their program fee, and it is purchased on their behalf. These students do not need to independently purchase Clemson’s international insurance. Students participating in exchange programs, direct-enrollment programs, some third-party programs, and other university-affiliated travel are required to purchase Clemson University's CISI international insurance coverage. Please note, some third-party programs (ex: USAC, TEAN, CISAbroad, etc.) offer Clemson approved insurance as part of their program fee. Students must submit proof of Clemson approved third-party insurance coverage as part of their Clemson online application. Finances and Financial Aid Is it expensive to study abroad? Studying abroad can be quite affordable and comparable to Clemson’s regular in-state tuition and housing. However, the cost of a program varies significantly based on location, duration, provider, and extra-curricular components. Once you have goals for your experience, our office can assist you in comparing your financial options. Is it less expensive to study abroad in the summer? Short-term programs are not necessarily cheaper than longer programs, as cost varies depending on the provider, the location, etc. For students who can use financial aid on a study abroad program, it may be more cost-effective to study abroad during semesters. Students participating in a summer program may have used their full financial aid allocation during the regular school year and may not have additional aid left. Therefore, the out-of-pocket expense for a short program may not be significantly lower than for a semester program. What is the study abroad fee and what does it cover? The study abroad fee contributes to the provision of services offered by the Office of Global Engagement and covers study abroad advising, registration, financial aid services, transfer of credit, pre-departure orientations, contact while abroad, cross-cultural awareness registration, etc. Read more about the study abroad fee. Can I use my financial aid or scholarships abroad? In general, financial aid and scholarships can be used for study abroad but restrictions apply. Students must contact the Office of Student Financial Aid as early as possible in the process for specifics about their individual circumstances. Students planning to participate in a summer study abroad program should be aware that financial aid resources for summer school are normally very limited. Most students use their full financial aid allocation during the regular school year and may not have additional aid left (except for loans). Are there scholarships available specifically for study abroad? Yes. Visit our Scholarships page to view study abroad scholarship opportunities. It is also a good idea to inquire about study abroad scholarships through your college. Please note, students should start the application process as early as possible and check the individual websites for deadlines. Often application materials are due six or more months before the program start date. What does the program cost consist of? The program cost consists of tuition & fees related to study abroad course enrollment, a non-refundable application fee, a program fee, and the study abroad fee. What does the program fee include? The program fee inclusions vary by program but typically include housing, on-site support, and international health insurance. Please refer to the program brochure page for details. Are there any additional expenses? Additional expenses may include airfare, books/supplies, meals not included in the program fee, passport and visa fees, excursions, local transportation, and other personal expenses. Those will vary and are dependent on the individual applicant’s budget, needs, destination country, and spending habits. How do I pay my bill? How and where you pay your bill depends on the program type. Please refer to the list below for details. Payment according to Program Type (Who do I pay?) Faculty-Directed Exchange Third-Party Non-refundable application fee paid through the application (select programs also require a deposit paid through the application) Application fee (if applicable) paid to host university Application fee paid to the program provider In-state tuition & fees billed via IROAR In-State tuition & fees (fees are combined as one exchange fee) billed via iROAR Tuition & fees paid to the program provider Program fee balance billed via IROAR Housing fees paid to the host university Program fee (including housing) paid to the program provider Program fee includes insurance and is billed via IROAR Mandatory CISI insurance paid through the CISI website linked in the application (additional national insurance may be required) Clemson approved insurance may be included in the program fee; otherwise, purchase CISI insurance on their website Study abroad fee billed via IROAR Study abroad fee billed via IROAR Study abroad fee billed via IROAR Why hasn't my financial aid been applied to my study abroad term? Unless you are paying completely out-of-pocket for your study abroad experience, meeting with a Student Financial Aid advisor is crucial. Students participating in exchanges, direct enrollment, or third-party programs receive the Verification of Enrollment form (VOE) during their meeting with Financial Aid. The VOE must be signed by on-site staff. Consequently, financial aid cannot be released before the program’s start date. If the program's payment schedule falls earlier than the financial aid disbursement, you must complete payments to the host university or program provider and receive the financial aid later as a check or direct deposit. All charges on a student’s Clemson bill are satisfied before releasing aid. Preparing to Go/ While Abroad How do I prepare to go abroad? All students who are studying abroad are required to attend a mandatory pre-departure orientation session (offered each semester). In addition, our office can put you in contact with former participants or international students from the country in which you will be studying. We will work with you to make sure you feel prepared. Will I still be enrolled at Clemson while I am studying abroad? While abroad, students will maintain their Clemson enrollment by being enrolled in a zero-credit hour course. Enrollment ensures that students remain in an active status at Clemson and allows for a seamless return to Clemson after their experience. The course prefixes vary by program type and include SAP and TSAP. Students will be enrolled in the appropriate course by the Pam Hendrix Center for Education Abroad. Students who are participating in faculty-directed programs will be registered in Clemson courses in addition to the zero-credit hour course mentioned above. Can I take my prescription abroad? Do not assume that prescription medications available in the US are legal in other countries. Every country has different regulations and in some countries, it's illegal to bring certain medications entirely or they limit the amount you can bring with you. Read more about taking prescriptions abroad. What is Alert Traveler? AlertTraveler is a mobile application for iOS and Android devices that the Pam Hendrix Center for Education Abroad utilizes to provide you with country and city intelligence to help you make informed decisions while traveling. It provides safety and security alerts to let you know of any events that could potentially impact your travel or safety. An instant check-in option allows you to report your status back to our staff in case of an incident. To target these alerts to your location and interests, AlertTraveler uses GPS and the travel itinerary associated with your study abroad application. Please note, downloading and activation is required. How do I register for courses to take at Clemson while I am abroad? Students participating in a study abroad program will register through the online iROAR system for courses to take at Clemson the semester they return. Students who are abroad will not need a registration number. Students should refer to their assigned registration time to know what day and time to register for classes. If you need advice on what courses to register for, contact your academic adviser. How do I vote while abroad? Students who would like to vote while overseas should register to vote and request an absentee ballot to be completed before going abroad. This can be done through the Vote Overseas website. Where can I get more information about subleasing my apartment while I am abroad or finding a place to live when I return? Many Clemson students look for someone to sublease their room while they are away from campus (on study abroad, co-op, or internship). Several Facebook groups are available for people looking for and offering rooms for sublease. To find applicable groups, we recommend searching "Clemson Sublease" on Facebook. Visit the Off-Campus Student Services website for more information about subleasing an apartment, finding roommates, and securing off-campus accommodations at Clemson upon your return from studying abroad. Academics Can I study abroad if my major has a very rigid course schedule? Yes, there are opportunities for students in every major to study abroad. If you have particular concerns about fitting a study abroad experience into your four years at Clemson, you should plan in advance with your academic adviser and a study abroad adviser to find the best term and program. What is TCEL? The Transfer Course Equivalency List (TCEL) is a database containing the Clemson University course equivalencies. It represents courses that have transferred credit to Clemson before, but it does not represent a comprehensive list of transferable courses. Courses not listed on TCEL can still transfer by obtaining departmental approval. Find more details on this process on our Transferring Credits page. Will the credits transfer? With a few exceptions, all courses on faculty-directed programs are Clemson courses, and no transfer is necessary. Students’ grades on a faculty-directed program are included in their Clemson University GPA. For exchange, third-party, and direct-enrollment programs, approved courses are transferred to Clemson upon receipt of the program’s official transcript. Students must receive the equivalent of a “C” grade or higher to transfer credits. Courses must be graded (no pass/fail courses will transfer). Credit hours, not letter grades, transfer. Grades from these programs do not affect the student’s Clemson University GPA. Please note, grades from transcripts issued by US institutions may affect scholarship eligibility. Students should discuss this with their financial aid advisor. Additionally, graduate and professional schools will take study abroad grades into consideration. Find more information about the credit transfer process on our Transferring credits page. Please note, different policies apply to the transfer of graduate credit. It is the student’s responsibility to check with his/her academic adviser and graduate school regarding the transfer of credit for graduate courses and other required forms. Students should refer to graduate school academic regulations. How do I make sure the credits transfer? Students who participated in credit-bearing third-party, exchange, or direct- enrollment programs will transfer credits. Please be aware, it typically takes 12-16 weeks for your study abroad transcript to arrive. Please follow the steps below to ensure your paperwork is up-to-date. Verify with your provider or host university an official transcript will be sent directly to abroad@clemsonl.edu. For institutions that do not offer electronic transcripts, a paper copy must be sent to: Pam Hendrix Center for Education Abroad E-301 Martin Hall Box 345714 Clemson, SC 29634. Verify you turned in your completed coursework approval form by checking your Clemson application and looking under the "documents" tab. If your coursework approval form is not there, please email it to aborad@clemson.edu as soon as possible. Did you have to change any courses while abroad, or did you take courses that have not been approved yet? Ensure all the courses you actually took are listed and approved on your coursework approval form. Add any missing courses, seek approval signatures for those not listed on TCEL, and return the completed form to abroad@clemson.edu. Once we have processed your transcript, you will receive a message that it has been sent to the Registrar. Be sure to check your unofficial Clemson transcript for your transfer courses within a few days of receiving this message. Verify the courses transferred correctly. (Please note, transfer courses are listed before your Clemson courses.) Notify our office immediately if there are any discrepancies. What is the 37/43 Residency Policy Waiver Form? To qualify for an undergraduate degree, a student must complete through instruction from Clemson University a minimum of 37 of the last 43 credits presented for the degree. If you are within 43 hours of graduation (usually second-semester junior or senior) and you will be transferring more than 6 credit hours of coursework from abroad back to Clemson University, you must complete the 37/43 Residency Policy Waiver. You can either drop off the form at the Office of Undergrad Studies at 101 Vickery Hall or email it to Lisa Lynn Traynham. Please contact the Office of Undergrad Studies at 864-656-3022 if you have questions regarding this form. How do I enroll in IS1010? Your Clemson application includes a document called “Cross-Cultural Awareness Requirement” assuming your program meets the IS1010 requirement. If you answered “yes” (I want to be enrolled), our office will enroll you in IS1010. If you accidentally answered “yes” or changed your mind, you need to send an email to abroad@clemson.edu and ask to be removed from IS1010 before the add/drop date. How do I order a copy of my study abroad transcript? If you need an official study abroad transcript for your grad or professional school application, you must contact the program provider or host university directly. Safety Who do I contact in the event of an emergency? In the event of an emergency overseas, study abroad participants should first contact the appropriate local authorities as well as their on-site emergency contact. Read more in the event of an emergency. Where can I get more information about safety concerns abroad? Please consult our Healthy and Safe Abroad page for details. Facts and Figures What is the Pam Hendrix Center for Education Abroad (PHCEA)? The Pam Hendrix Center for Education Abroad is Clemson’s study abroad office. We offer a wide range of outstanding international programs for any student to enjoy. We assist students going abroad to We are here to help with Study Program Selection Intern Preparation Research Assistance while abroad Volunteer/Service Re-entry How many Clemson University students go abroad every year? Over 1,500 students study abroad each year, including semester, summer, and short-term programs. Most students study abroad in the spring or summer. Where can I study abroad? Study abroad programs are available all over the world! Your interests, the type of experience, and the courses you are looking for will help determine the destination. Students may only travel to destinations with the US Department of State’s level 1 or 2 and CDC level 1. If a student wishes to travel to a country with higher levels, they may submit an appeal to Clemson's High-Risk Travel Committee for consideration. Please see the COVID-19 Updates page and contact the Pam Hendrix Center for Education Abroad for more information. When can I study abroad? Study abroad programs are available during the fall, spring, spring/fall break, and summer and can last from two weeks to a full academic year. Students may study abroad at any time in their Clemson career, and many do so during their sophomore or junior years. Students should talk with their academic advisor to determine how it fits best into their degree path. Can I study abroad in my senior year? Students studying abroad in their senior year should be aware of potential delays in the arrival of their international transcript to Clemson which may affect graduation. Contact the Pam Hendrix Center for Education Abroad to discuss your specific circumstances. Can I study abroad multiple times? Absolutely! Students who have studied abroad once frequently choose to do so again during their four years at Clemson. Students should start exploring study abroad early to keep their options open. Can any major go abroad? Yes, all majors can go abroad, as students make academic progress abroad. They can take courses to fulfill major/minor requirements or general education requirements. Students should work with their academic advisor to determine the best timing based on their degree path and the coursework they need to take while abroad. Your study abroad coordinator will help you determine what programs will meet your academic and personal needs. Are students usually accepted to the program of their choice? As long as students are in good academic standing, follow application deadlines, and meet the minimum GPA requirements, they are usually accepted to their programs. Some third-party and exchange programs are more competitive and may have higher GPA requirements than the Clemson University minimum of 2.5. Will students be studying abroad with other Clemson students or American students? In faculty-directed programs, Clemson students travel and study together. Third-party programs typically involve American students from various universities. Exchange programs place students directly in a foreign university where they will interact with local and international students. What is the most popular program or the program your office recommends? Clemson University enables students to go abroad on dozens of programs all over the world, and there isn’t a prevalent pattern of choice for individual programs. Our office makes recommendations to students based on their individual interests, goals, and needs. Home How to Apply Preparing for Your Experience Healthy and Safe Abroad Financing Your Experience While Abroad Covid-19 Updates FAQs Contact Us Login Information For Incoming Exchange Students Faculty and Staff Parents Returning to Clemson Related Links Passport Information US Department of State Centers for Disease Control and Prevention Office of Global Engagement Office of Global Engagement International Students English Language Programs Global Learning Institute for Faculty Global Partnerships Home Admissions Campus Life Academics Visit Outreach Research About Apply To Clemson Undergraduate Graduate Professional Online Education Employment Opportunities Policy/Terms of Use Text Version Web Accessibility Ethics/Safety Hotline Privacy Policy Site Information Copyright © 2022 Clemson University Clemson, South Carolina 29634 864-656-3311 Contact Clemson Stories for the Clemson Family Clemson University on Facebook Clemson University on Twitter Clemson University on LinkedIn Clemson University on Flickr Clemson University on Instagram