Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Morrissey College of Arts and Sciences Information For Search BC.edu Links Theology Department Menu Main Nav Theology Department Theology Department Contact Back Back Close About Overview Mission Statement Contact Giving Multimedia News & Notes Duffy Lectures Recently Published Books People Overview Faculty Openings Office Hours Undergraduate Overview Major Minor Core in Theology Course Levels Theta Alpha Kappa Thesis Guidelines Graduate Overview Joint M.A. Philosophy & Theology Ph.D. Current Grads Student Profiles Theo Grad Student Assoc Resources Dissertations/Placements Areas of Study Overview Biblical Studies Historical Theology/History of Christianity Systematic Theology Theological Ethics Comparative Theology CT Undergraduate Program CT Doctoral Program CT Seminar Lectures and Conferences Interreligious Dialogue Courses Close Contact Directory A to Z Listing Search Morrissey College Search BC.edu Find pages or people Search Close Close BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close Theology Home Graduate Graduate Joint M.A. Philosophy & Theology Ph.D. Current Grads Dissertations/Placements Graduate Thank you for your interest in graduate studies at Boston College. As part of the Graduate School of Arts and Sciences, the Theology department offers a joint M.A. with the Philosophy department and the Ph.D. in five areas of specialization (Bible, Comparative, Ethics, Historical, and Systematic), preparing its graduates for scholarly careers of research, teaching, and service in higher education. All information on the Graduate Theology application process can be found in the Program Brochure. Applications are due in early January of each year for the upcoming fall. The application itself is completed online through the Graduate School of Arts and Sciences and is opened mid-autumn for the upcoming cycle (e.g. opens September 2019 for January 2020 deadline). To order a copy of the Theology Graduate Program Brochure please contact the Graduate School of Arts and Sciences at gsasinfo@bc.edu or 617-552-2244, or visit the Graduate School of Arts and Sciences web site where you will find downloadable forms, application details, and instructions for applying online. Get Started Request Info Apply Now Graduate Student Testimonials Learning Outcomes Doctoral students are expected to: Acquire a rigorous mastery of the Judeo-Christian tradition, enabling them to critically probe the foundations of various theological positions. Command the tools and techniques of research particular to their field and to organize and integrate their knowledge in such a way as to make an original contribution to the academic study of theology. Engage in ecumenical, inter-religious, interdisciplinary, and cross-cultural academic conversation as appropriate to their discipline. Acquire the skills and competencies necessary to present papers at appropriate academic conferences and to publish the results of their research in respected peer-reviewed journals. Acquire the skills and competencies necessary to succeed not only as an active scholar but as an effective teacher. Students in the Joint M.A. in Philosophy and Theology are expected to: Demonstrate a working understanding of the fundamental texts, voices, conversations, and debates that have shaped the history of philosophy and theology in the Western tradition (ancient, medieval, modern, and contemporary); Appreciate and systematically engage the historical and ongoing interaction between philosophy and theology in the Western tradition, particularly as it concerns questions of God, reason, revelation, faith, language, doctrine, culture, and human experience; Appreciate and constructively engage the various genres, methods, styles, aims, and historical contexts of philosophical and theological inquiry; Develop a program of study in consultation with an advisor that includes a concentration in one of the following areas: Faith, Science, and Philosophy; Foundations in Philosophy and Theology; Medieval Philosophy and Theology; and Philosophy and Religions. Demonstrate a sophisticated ability to write and speak about philosophical and theological texts and issues through graduate seminars, language study, a comprehensive exam, and an optional thesis. Back To Top Back To Top Theology Department Stokes 310N 617-552-3880 Facebook Twitter Morrissey College of Arts and Sciences Gasson Hall 140 Commonwealth Avenue Chestnut Hill, MA 02467 About Undergraduate Graduate Faculty & Research Departments Contact Departments Art, Art History, and Film Biology Chemistry Classical Studies Communication Computer Science Earth and Environmental Sciences Economics Engineering English German Studies History Mathematics Music Philosophy Physics Political Science Psychology Romance Languages and Literatures Slavic & Eastern Languages and Literatures Sociology Theatre Theology Giving to Theology Faculty Openings Apply Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College