Search | Directories | Reference Tools UW Home > Discover UW > Student Guide UW Bothell Course Descriptions UW Tacoma Course Descriptions Glossary COLLEGE OF ARTS & SCIENCES GEOGRAPHY Detailed course offerings (Time Schedule) are available for Spring Quarter 2022 Summer Quarter 2022 Autumn Quarter 2022 GEOG 123 Introduction to Globalization (5) I&S, DIV Provides an introduction to the debates over globalization. Focuses on the growth and intensification of global ties. Addresses the resulting inequalities and tensions, as well as the new opportunities for cultural and political exchange. Topics include the impacts on government, finance, labor, culture, the environment, health, and activism. View course details in MyPlan: GEOG 123 GEOG 180 Introduction to Global Health: Disparities, Determinants, Policies, and Outcomes (5) I&S Todd Faubion, Stephen Gloyd Provides an introduction to global health, including: the burden and distribution of disease and mortality; the determinants of global health disparities; the making of global health policies; and the outcomes of global health interventions. Offered: jointly with G H 101/JSIS B 180; Sp. View course details in MyPlan: GEOG 180 GEOG 195 Special Topics in Geography (1-5, max. 10) I&S View course details in MyPlan: GEOG 195 GEOG 203 Introduction to Migration (5) I&S, DIV Introduces contemporary issues in international migration. Covers the relationship between contemporary human mobility and changes in the global economy; gendered migration; transnationalism; refugee and asylum issues; and immigrant integration. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: GEOG 203 GEOG 205 Our Global Environment: Physical and Human Dimensions (5) NW Explores environmental systems using a geographic perspective that emphasizes spatial patterns of phenomena, relationships between different places, and interconnections between people and environment. Evaluates causes, consequences, and solutions to environmental problems. Topics include climate, atmosphere, water, ecosystems, and soils. View course details in MyPlan: GEOG 205 GEOG 207 Economic Geography (5) I&S The changing locations and spatial patterns of economic activity, including: production in agriculture, manufacturing, and services; spatial economic principles of trade, transportation, communications, and corporate organization; regional economic development, and the diffusion of technological innovation. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: GEOG 207 GEOG 208 Geography of the World Economy: Regional Fortunes and the Rise of Global Markets (5) I&S Examines the relationship between the globalization of economic activity and regional development. Topics include international trade, colonialism, industrial capitalism, advanced capitalism, and the globalization of labor markets. View course details in MyPlan: GEOG 208 GEOG 230 Geographies of Global Inequality (5) I&S, DIV Addresses increasing global inequalities by focusing on shifting spatial division of labor and the role of the international development industry in shaping economic and social inequality. Examines relationships between economic globalization, development industry, and rising global inequality: reviews the history and record of the international development project, and asks what it means to say that Western, advanced economies are not the norm. View course details in MyPlan: GEOG 230 GEOG 236 Development and Challenge in Greater China (5) I&S Studies the geography of development processes, patterns, and problems in "Greater China": mainland China, Taiwan, and Hong Kong. Covers physical geography, history, and economic and political systems, with major focus on geographical issues in China's development: agriculture, population, industry and trade, and relations with Hong Kong and Taiwan. Offered: jointly with JSIS A 236. View course details in MyPlan: GEOG 236 GEOG 245 Geodemographics: Population, Diversity, and Place (5) I&S, DIV, QSR Explores the geodemographic underpinnings of societal dynamics and the spatial diversity of United States populations. Topics include immigration policy, the concept of 'race' in the census, fertility and mortality differences, political redistricting, segregation, and internal migration of populations. Examines regional and local scales of variation using geodemographic techniques and GIS. View course details in MyPlan: GEOG 245 GEOG 258 Digital Geographies (5) I&S Explores the use and societal impacts of contemporary digital spatial technologies. Focuses on internet mapping, handheld geographic technologies, location-based services, spatial applications of social media, the geoweb, and traditional GIS. Develops hands-on experience using online digital spatial tools for geovisual representation, and skills for evaluation/critique of digital data and maps. View course details in MyPlan: GEOG 258 GEOG 270 Geographies of International Development and Environmental Change (5) I&S Explores how concepts, theories and ideologies of international development and environmental issues interrelate. Approaches development and environment through several interconnected topics: population, consumption, carbon, land and water. Examines how these issues connect our lives to the lives of people living in the Third World. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: GEOG 270 GEOG 271 Geography of Food and Eating (5) I&S, DIV Examines development of world food economy, current responses to instabilities and crises, and issues relating to obesity, hunger, and inequality in relation to food systems. Explores political, social, and economic dimensions of food and eating in particular spaces, places, environments, contexts, and regions. Uses the theme of food and eating to examine key concepts from human geography and thereby provides an introduction to the discipline. View course details in MyPlan: GEOG 271 GEOG 272 Geographies of Environmental Justice (5) I&S, DIV Draws on political ecology and cultural geography frameworks to think through social constructions of nature: where we live, where we play, and where we work. Looks at the role of markers of difference (gender, race, nationality) in debates around equity and justice. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: GEOG 272 GEOG 276 Introduction to Political Geography (5) I&S Examines both the geography of politics and the politics of geography at a variety of spatial scales and in different global locations. Typical topics include: geographies of the state and state power; geopolitics and globalization; national and local politics, and other politics of culture, health, nature, and the body. View course details in MyPlan: GEOG 276 GEOG 277 Geography of Cities (5) I&S, DIV Explores economic, cultural, social and political dynamics of cities - their location, functions, and internal structure, including economic activities, housing, and social geography. Topics include economic restructuring; suburbanization and urban sprawl; urban planning; inner-city gentrification; and how issues of class, race, and gender are embedded in the geographies of cities. View course details in MyPlan: GEOG 277 GEOG 280 Introduction to the Geography of Health and Healthcare (5) I&S Concepts of health from a geographical viewpoint, including human-environment relations, development, geographical patterns of disease, and health systems in developed and developing countries. View course details in MyPlan: GEOG 280 GEOG 295 Special Topics in Geography (1-5, max. 10) I&S View course details in MyPlan: GEOG 295 GEOG 298 Study Abroad: Geography (1-5, max. 10) I&S For participants in study abroad program. Specific course content varies. Courses do not automatically apply to major/minor requirements but may, depending on course content, count toward various major requirements. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: GEOG 298 GEOG 301 Cultural Geography (5) I&S Analysis of cultural processes in the formation of landscape, environment, region, and place in their relationship to individual and group identities and activities View course details in MyPlan: GEOG 301 GEOG 302 The Pacific Northwest (5) I&S Focus on radical histories of past and ongoing struggles across the region, its human geographies, and ecological futures. Explores ongoing settler colonial practices, competing ideas of growth and development, technological transformations, urban-rural dynamics, labor organizing across a multitude of industries, race-place-ecological histories, and contemporary social movements. View course details in MyPlan: GEOG 302 GEOG 303 Contemporary European Migration (5) I&S Provides a theoretical and empirical understanding of contemporary migration processes and patterns in Europe. Introduces the different migration regimes and integration practices of selected European states. Analyzes the impact of globalization, the ever-changing role of the European Union, and the importance of international, national, and urban policy on immigrant lives. Offered: jointly with JSIS A 304; W. View course details in MyPlan: GEOG 303 GEOG 310 Immigrant America: Trends and Policies from a Geographic Perspective (5) I&S, DIV U.S. immigration trends and policies from a geographic perspective. Topics include where immigrants come from, where they settle in the United States (and why they settle in those particular places), these locations, immigrant employment enclaves, effects of U.S. immigration policy on immigrant settlement and employment patterns, unauthorized immigration, citizenship, and barriers to immigrant social and economic mobility in the United States. View course details in MyPlan: GEOG 310 GEOG 315 Explanation and Understanding in Geography (5) I&S Covers the beginning steps in the research process. Introduces the discipline of geography, the department, and current faculty through the research aims of explanation and understanding that frame social scientific inquiry. Students develop basic library and writing skills as preparation for future research methods classes and independent research. View course details in MyPlan: GEOG 315 GEOG 317 Geographic Information and Spatial Analysis (5) I&S, QSR Integrates geographic information systems and spatial data analysis, emphasizing the appropriate selection of methods, procedures for research design, and interpretation of findings. Topics include descriptive and inferential methods, spatial patterns and statistics, and correlation and spatial autocorrelation. Applications use SPSS and ArcMap software. View course details in MyPlan: GEOG 317 GEOG 323 Globalization and You (5) I&S Offers an evidence-based analysis of globalization that addresses how individuals are affected personally as well as economically a midst the market-led processes of global integration. Offered: jointly with JSIS D 323; A. View course details in MyPlan: GEOG 323 GEOG 326 Quantitative Methods in Geography (5) I&S, QSR Introduction to quantitative methods in geography, with a primary focus on statistical techniques. Examines the basic concepts, reasoning, and procedures geographers use in developing, analyzing, applying, and presenting quantitative methods. Topics include: generating and describing data; elementary probability, hypothesis testing, comparative tests; finding relationships; and using and misusing statistics. View course details in MyPlan: GEOG 326 GEOG 330 Latin America: Landscapes of Change (5) I&S Examines operation of economic, social, and political processes across countries of Latin America - on international, national, and local scales - to understand common issues facing the region and different impacts in particular countries. Topics include internationalization of Latin American economies; agrarian and urban change; popular movements. View course details in MyPlan: GEOG 330 GEOG 331 Global Poverty and Care (5) I&S, DIV Explores the causes and patterns of global poverty, and the urgent need for studies of care in both academic work and public policy. Considers the possibilities and challenges of caring across distance, and ways to respectfully engage with people in different places. View course details in MyPlan: GEOG 331 GEOG 332 Black Feminist Geographies (5) I&S, DIV Kemi Adeyemi Stereotypes about blackness, gender, and sexuality are enmeshed with how we think, feel, and move about the landscapes we move through - and black people are often seen threatening presences that "need" to be policed, contained, and completely erased. This course considers how black feminist approaches to geographic space reveal ways that these restrictive understandings of blackness, gender, and sexuality are refused and redefined. Offered: jointly with GWSS 332. View course details in MyPlan: GEOG 332 GEOG 335 Geography of the Developing World (5) I&S Characteristics and causes, external and internal, of Third World development and obstacles to that development. Special attention to demographic and agricultural patterns, resource development, industrialization and urbanization, drawing on specific case studies from Asia, Africa, and Latin America. Offered: jointly with JSIS B 335. View course details in MyPlan: GEOG 335 GEOG 336 Development and Challenge in China (5) I&S Examines the geography of China's development since 1949. Introduces China's physical geography, history, and economic and political system. Emphasizes China's uneven development in agriculture, population, industry, and trade. Also examines problems China faces in meeting its internal food demand, as well as the external processes of globalization. View course details in MyPlan: GEOG 336 GEOG 337 Migration and Development in China (5) I&S Examines patterns of China's internal migration in different periods in relation to economic development. Explores how the state-created dual structure and the household registration system enables China to have a huge class of super-exploitable migrant labor and become the world's premier low-end manufacturing center. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: GEOG 337 GEOG 342 Geography of Inequality (5) I&S, DIV Geographies of social, political, and economic inequality. Focus is usually on North American cities. Examines the theoretical underpinning of inequality. Explores topics such as the spatial distribution of wealth and poverty, the geographies of exclusion, and discrimination in paid employment and housing. View course details in MyPlan: GEOG 342 GEOG 343 Comparative Geographies of Youth (5) I&S Examines how three key global processes - rising levels of formal education, changing health regimes , and environmental transformation - are shaping youth in the US and South Asia. Examines ways young people rework broader structures, paying particular attention to their economic livelihoods, cultural practices, and political engagements. Offered: jointly with JSIS B 347; A. View course details in MyPlan: GEOG 343 GEOG 344 Migration in the Global Economy (5) I&S Analyzes the relationship between human mobility in the late twentieth century and changes in the global economy. Allows students to gain familiarity with scholarly research on international migration from a diversity of approaches and methods. Offered: jointly with JSIS B 344. View course details in MyPlan: GEOG 344 GEOG 349 Geography of International Trade (5) I&S Introduces the theories and practice of international trade and foreign direct investment. Topics include: trade theory and policy; economic integration; currency markets and foreign exchange; trade operations and logistics; the international regulatory environment; and marketing, location and entry, and finance, accounting, and taxation. View course details in MyPlan: GEOG 349 GEOG 360 GIS and Mapping (5) I&S, QSR Introduction to mapping and geographic information systems. Topics include: Representation of spatial objects, their attributes, and relationships in desktop and online GIS; common spatial operations and geoprocessing in GIS; principles of cartographic visualization, communication, and critique; narrative mapping and spatial humanities; ethics, society and GIS. View course details in MyPlan: GEOG 360 GEOG 362 GIS Presentation, Analysis, and Problem-Solving (3) Introduces students to the systems, science, and study of geographic information systems (GIS), including what gives GIS its enduring importance, it core principles, its applications, its unique analysis methods, and the practices and dilemmas that often accompany the use and communication of geographic information. Not available for credit to students who have completed GEOG 360. Credit/no-credit only. View course details in MyPlan: GEOG 362 GEOG 370 Environmental Conservation: Geographic Perspectives (5) I&S Explores how environmental conservation is shaped by scientific, political, cultural, and economic forces acting across both space and time. Specific topics include environmental history, wilderness preservation, national parks, forest management, community-based conservation, global political ecology, and environmental justice. View course details in MyPlan: GEOG 370 GEOG 371 World Hunger and Agricultural Development (5) I&S Addresses world hunger and poverty in relation to agricultural development, food security policy, the globalization of food and agriculture and social movements. Explores the problem and historical persistence of hunger across geographic scale and examines the debates about how hunger can be eradicated. View course details in MyPlan: GEOG 371 GEOG 373 Food and Community: Cultural Practices in the Hispanic World (5) I&S, DIV Ana M. Gomez-Bravo Intersections of food and community in Hispanic cultures. Past and present practices. Food and material culture, urban design, foodways and gender roles, food and race, diet and hygiene, religious, and civic celebrations, and food preparation techniques. Offered: jointly with JEW ST 362/SPAN 362; S. View course details in MyPlan: GEOG 373 GEOG 374 Food Cultures, Race, and Identity in the Hispanic and Sephardic Worlds (3) I&S, DIV Food cultures and practices and their intersections with the construction of racial or racialized identities in the Hispanic and Sephardic worlds. Addresses issues of diversity through examining the role of food in creating power differentials and racialized identities. Food practices in the Hispanic and Sephardic worlds in a broad geographic area and time period. Offered: jointly with JEW ST 324/SPAN 325. View course details in MyPlan: GEOG 374 GEOG 375 Geopolitics (5) I&S, DIV An introduction to both political geography and geopolitics, addressing the fundamental links between power and space. Topics covered include: theories of power, space, and modernity; the formation of modern states; international geopolitics in the aftermath of the Cold War; the post-colonial nation-state; and the geopolitics of resistance. Offered: jointly with JSIS B 375. View course details in MyPlan: GEOG 375 GEOG 377 Urban Political Geography (5) I&S Examines how the spatial structure of cities and towns affects and is affected by political processes. Considers both traditional and newer forms of politics, as global and local issues. Special attention paid to where politics takes place within local contexts across state, civil society, home, and the body. View course details in MyPlan: GEOG 377 GEOG 378 Policing the City (5) I&S S. HERBERT Investigates how and why formal and informal order is established in urban areas, how this order produces advantages and disadvantages, and possibilities of alternative visions of order. Topics include formal means of control (zoning, laws, policing, building codes) and informal means of control (gossip, ostracism, peer pressure, local politics). Offered: jointly with LSJ 378; A. View course details in MyPlan: GEOG 378 GEOG 380 Geographical Patterns of Health and Disease (5) I&S Geography of infectious and chronic diseases at local, national, and international scales; environmental, cultural, and social explanations of those variations; comparative aspects of health systems. View course details in MyPlan: GEOG 380 GEOG 381 Maps and Health (5) I&S Combines the study of maps, GIS and other geovisualization technologies with research on the geography of health. Provides an introduction to key geovisualization tools, while also offering an opportunity to reflect intellectually on health maps through the lens of critical social theories about power and knowledge. View course details in MyPlan: GEOG 381 GEOG 395 Special Topics in Geography (1-5, max. 10) I&S View course details in MyPlan: GEOG 395 GEOG 403 Transnational Latinx Migrations (5) I&S, DIV Explores the role of gender, racial formation, and language in transnational Latin American migrations. Outlines key concepts related to power relations in nation-states, geographies of security, border enforcement, and the production of Latinidades, or multiple Latinx identities. Recommended: LSJ 329, GEOG 310, or POL S 359 View course details in MyPlan: GEOG 403 GEOG 404 Abolition Geographies (5) I&S, DIV Radical place-making to create community well-being without harming others. Includes theoretically informed works and study of abolitionist activism and policies in Seattle and other Coast Salish communities. Recommended: either GEOG 271, GEOG 272, or GEOG 335/JSIS B 335; and other courses on policing, critical race theory, or ethnic studies. View course details in MyPlan: GEOG 404 GEOG 425 Qualitative Methodology in Geography (5) I&S Historical and philosophical overview of qualitative methodology and techniques such as interviewing, ethnography, archival research, participatory action research, and focus groups. Exploration of forms of interpretation and analysis such as textual interpretation, critical discourse analysis, and content analysis. Addresses questions of ethics, power relations, field notes, and research presentation. View course details in MyPlan: GEOG 425 GEOG 426 Advanced Quantitative Methods (5) I&S, QSR Introduces elementary spatial statistics and advanced statistical techniques in quantitative human geography. Methods reviewed include geographic applications of multiple regression analysis, spatial statistics and spatial autocorrelation, geographically weighted regression, factor analysis, discriminant analysis, and logistic regression. Prioritizes the interpretation and application of methods. Prerequisite: a minimum grade of 2.0 in GEOG 326; and a minimum grade of 2.0 in GEOG 360. View course details in MyPlan: GEOG 426 GEOG 430 Contemporary Development Issues in Latin America (5) I&S Contemporary development issues in Latin America, seen from a spatial perspective. Concept of development; competing theories as related to various Latin American states. Economic structural transformation, migration, urbanization, regional inequality, and related policies. View course details in MyPlan: GEOG 430 GEOG 431 Geography and Gender (5) I&S Examines theories and case studies across international, national, and regional scales in order to illustrate the impacts of social and economic processes upon the construction of gender in particular places. View course details in MyPlan: GEOG 431 GEOG 432 Geographies and Politics of Poverty and Privilege (5) I&S Examines theories and case studies across the Americas to understand geographies and politics of poverty and inequality. Outlines key concepts related to the reproduction of inequality/poverty, particularly theories of class, gender, and race and examines the mechanisms through which knowledge and action on poverty and inequality are (re)produced. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: GEOG 432 GEOG 435 Industrialization and Urbanization in China (5) I&S Examines the impacts of industrialization strategies adopted by the People's Republic of China on urbanization and rural-urban relations. Topics include: economic development strategies, industrial geography, rural industrialization, urban development patterns, migration, and urbanization policies. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: GEOG 435 GEOG 436 Social and Political Geographies of South Asia (5) I&S Introduces the social and political geographies of South Asia through reference to agrarian change in India. Outlines key concepts related to the reproduction of inequality in the region, particularly theories of caste, class, gender, and religious communalism, and examines the mechanisms through which these inequalities are reproduced in South Asia. Offered: jointly with JSIS A 438. View course details in MyPlan: GEOG 436 GEOG 439 Geography of Employment (5) I&S Focuses on the importance of a spatial perspective in understanding labor market processes. Explores how this perspective sheds light on employment inequalities between social groups. View course details in MyPlan: GEOG 439 GEOG 442 Social Geography (5) I&S Review of concepts and methods of postwar social geography: historical roots and present orientations. Study of social spatial systems, their structures and functioning. View course details in MyPlan: GEOG 442 GEOG 445 Geography of Housing (5) I&S, DIV Focuses on the geography of housing, especially in the United States. Topics include: the American dream of home ownership; housing affordability and differential access to home ownership; homelessness; the history of public housing; housing demography; residential mobility and neighborhood change, and discrimination in the housing market. View course details in MyPlan: GEOG 445 GEOG 448 Geography of Transportation (5) I&S View course details in MyPlan: GEOG 448 GEOG 451 Cultural Geography of Latin America (5) I&S Interdisciplinary senior seminar examining how physical and social geographies are culturally constructed and interconnected with subjectivities and power in Latin America. Topics include identity formation grounded in particular territories and the social constitution of space via an interplay of material and cultural forces. Offered: jointly with JSIS D 451. View course details in MyPlan: GEOG 451 GEOG 455 Genealogical Geographies (5) I&S Research seminar in geospatial genealogy. Focuses on family genealogy and geographical analysis, rather than particular regions or eras. Explores historical and population geographies as well as disciplinary relationship with genealogy and family history. Relates individual family tree data with broader economic, political, and cultural phenomena in time and space. Prerequisite: GEOG 315. View course details in MyPlan: GEOG 455 GEOG 458 Advanced Digital Geographies (5) I&S, QSR How are emerging digital approaches changing GIS and geography generally? Students learn skills needed to critically and creatively engage with coding, collaboration, shifting geospatial webs, and interactive maps and essays. Prerequisite: GEOG 360. View course details in MyPlan: GEOG 458 GEOG 461 Urban Geographic Information Systems (5) I&S Use of geographic information systems to investigate urban/regional issues; focus on transportation, land-use and environmental issues; all urban change problems considered. GIS data processing strategies. Problem definition for GIS processing. Data collection, geocoding issues. Data structuring strategies. Prerequisite: a minimum grade of 2.0 in GEOG 360; and a minimum grade of 2.0 in either GEOG 230, GEOG 236/JSIS A 236, GEOG 245, GEOG 277, GEOG 310, GEOG 342, GEOG 377, GEOG 435, GEOG 445, GEOG 476/GWSS 476, GEOG 477, GEOG 478, GEOG 479, GEOG 490. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: GEOG 461 GEOG 462 Coastal Geographic Information Systems (5) I&S, QSR Combines lectures about fundamental concepts in geographic information systems with hands-on computer laboratory assignments about coastal environment-society issues. Coastal issues feature data measurement, characterization, and movement related to the land-water and environment society dynamic. Prerequisite: GEOG 360. View course details in MyPlan: GEOG 462 GEOG 464 GIS and Decision Support (5) I&S Combines lectures about geographic information systems and decision methods with hands-on computer assignments about regional and urban issues associated with such complex decision processes as planning, improvement programming, and capital project implementation. Emphasizes land, transportation, and water resources decision problems. Prerequisite: GEOG 360. View course details in MyPlan: GEOG 464 GEOG 465 GIS Database and Programming (5) I&S Explores GIS database models, database development, and database management systems used in GIS. Uses programming languages most applicable to GIS database work, particularly related to extending current commercial GIS such as ArcGIS. Prerequisite: minimum grade of 2.0 in GEOG 360. View course details in MyPlan: GEOG 465 GEOG 467 Law, Justice, and the Environment (5) I&S S. HERBERT Examines the role law plays in shaping environmental policy. Challenges student to understand how environmental concerns are translated into legal discourse, and covers several typical issues that emerge in environmental law. Centers on active discussions. Offered: jointly with LSJ 467. View course details in MyPlan: GEOG 467 GEOG 469 Geographic Information Systems Workshop (5) Practices experience applying geographic information system (GIS) tools to analyze spatial data. Workshop format involves team-based work on GIS application project in various subfields of geography for community or university partners; encourages diverse backgrounds in various subfields of geography. Prerequisite: minimum grade of 2.0 in either GEOG 458, GEOG 461, GEOG 462, GEOG 464, GEOG 465, or GEOG 482. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: GEOG 469 GEOG 470 The Cultural Politics of Food (5) I&S Explores ways our understanding of the concepts of "food" and "eating" are culturally and spatially constructed by societal structures, power relations, and media representations. Drawing from research in cultural geography and critical food studies, examines the connections between food, culture, the media, politics, and economics. Prerequisite: GEOG 271. View course details in MyPlan: GEOG 470 GEOG 471 Methods of Resource Analysis (5) I&S Economic and noneconomic criteria for resource analysis. Theory and methods of linear models of natural resource analysis. Includes materials-balance modeling, residuals management, constrained system optimization approaches to water quality analysis, land-use patterns and interregional energy use, and multiple objective planning techniques applied to natural resource problems. View course details in MyPlan: GEOG 471 GEOG 472 Race, Nature, and Power (5) I&S, DIV Explores the role that racial formation and power relations play in the cultural, political and spatial production of nature. Draws on geographies of nature-society relations, political ecology and environmental justice literatures to interrogate the link between nature imaginaries and conservation practices. Offered: AWSp. View course details in MyPlan: GEOG 472 GEOG 473 Geographies of Energy and Sustainability (5) I&S Examines how, where, and why energy resources are made and used and with what political, economic, and ecological implications. Investigates role of fossil fuels (coal, oil, natural gas) in neoliberal capitalism and geopolitics. Addresses multiple meanings of sustainability and explores conflicting visions of sustainable. Low-carbon futures. Recommended: either GEOG 205, GEOG 270, or GEOG 370. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: GEOG 473 GEOG 474 Geography and the Law (5) I&S S. HERBERT Examines the relationship between geography, law, and socio-legal analysis; reviews significant instances where law and geography intersect, such as the regulation of public space, the regulation of borders and mobility, and disputes over property and land use. Offered: jointly with LSJ 474. View course details in MyPlan: GEOG 474 GEOG 476 Women and the City (5) I&S, DIV Explores the reciprocal relations between gender relations, the layout of cities, and the activities of urban residents. Topics include: feminist theory and geography (women, gender, and the organization of space); women and urban poverty, housing and homelessness; gender roles and labor patterns; geographies of childcare; and women and urban politics. Offered: jointly with GWSS 476. View course details in MyPlan: GEOG 476 GEOG 477 Advanced Urban Geography (5) I&S Geographic patterns and social processes within metropolitan areas. Canvases current research topics, methods, and theoretical debates in urban geography. Issues covered range across urban economic, political, and cultural geography. View course details in MyPlan: GEOG 477 GEOG 478 Social Justice and the City (5) I&S, DIV Provides a link between general theories of urban inequality and their specific manifestation in the United States. Explores a series of themes related to contemporary urbanization processes including the recent mortgage crisis, segregation, gentrification, enclaves, fortification, redevelopment, homelessness, and the loss of public space. View course details in MyPlan: GEOG 478 GEOG 479 Diversity and Segregation in Cities (5) I&S Explores segregation and diversity within cities in the United States and elsewhere. Topics include the history of segregation; the measurement and dynamics of segregation and diversity; explanations for change in segregation and diversity in neighborhoods; and the effects of neighborhood segregation and diversity on social and economic outcomes for residents. View course details in MyPlan: GEOG 479 GEOG 480 Environmental Geography, Climate, and Health (5) I&S Demonstrates and investigates how human-environment relations are expressed in the context of health and disease. Local and global examples emphasize the ways medical geography is situated at the intersection of the social, physical, and biological sciences. Examines interactions between individual health, public health, and social, biological, and physical phenomena. Prerequisite: either GEOG 280, GEOG 380, or GEOG 426. View course details in MyPlan: GEOG 480 GEOG 482 GIS Data Management (5) I&S Examines the principles and application of geospatial database management software, including personal and enterprise geodatabase management solutions. Considers enterprise architectures for GIS relative to organizational size. Addresses collaborative uses of Internet, Intranet, and Extranet architectures. Offers case studies in database management, with a variety of dataset types and sizes. Prerequisite: GEOG 360. View course details in MyPlan: GEOG 482 GEOG 490 Field Research: The Seattle Region (5) I&S Field methods for contemporary urban research. Survey designs used in the analysis of transportation, land use, location of employment, shopping and housing, political fragmentation, and environmental degradation. Field report required, based on field work in the Seattle region. View course details in MyPlan: GEOG 490 GEOG 491 Professional Development for Geographers (1-3, max. 3) Prepares students for the post-graduation job market or for an internship. From skills assessment to resume building to interviewing, prepares students for success in the job market. Recommended: Significant coursework in Geography. Course is intended for advanced students. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: GEOG 491 GEOG 492 Career Exploration for Geographers (1-3, max. 3) Students reflect on past experiences and identify skills and strengths to find a path forward in geography. Alumni mentorship and career exploration activities help students develop resilience and build community while making connections between college and career. Recommended: successful completion of one GEOG course. View course details in MyPlan: GEOG 492 GEOG 494 Senior Essay (3) I&S Supervised individual research and writing of major paper during senior year. Offered: AWSp. View course details in MyPlan: GEOG 494 GEOG 495 Special Topics (*, max. 15) I&S Topics vary and are announced in the preceding quarter. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: GEOG 495 GEOG 496 Internship in Geography (3/5, max. 12) Internship in the public or private sector, supervised by a faculty member. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: GEOG 496 GEOG 497 Tutorial in Geography (1-5, max. 15) I&S Intensive directed study and tutoring. Literature reviews, formulations of project outlines and research designs, orientation in contemporary geographic thought and trends. Directed writing. Required for Honors students. Offered: AWSp. View course details in MyPlan: GEOG 497 GEOG 498 Study Abroad: Geography (1-5, max. 10) I&S For participants in study abroad program. Specific course content varies. Courses do not automatically apply to major/minor requirements but may, depending on course content, count toward various major requirements. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: GEOG 498 GEOG 499 Special Studies (*, max. 15) Supervised reading programs, undergraduate and graduate library and field research; special projects for undergraduate Honors students. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: GEOG 499 GEOG 500 Geographic Thought (5) Familiarizes entering graduate students with the research interests and publications of the geography faculty. Through readings, weekly essays, and discussions with faculty, students develop and deepen their individual research interests within the context of the intellectual life of the department. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: GEOG 500 GEOG 502 Professional Writing in Geography (*, max. 6) View course details in MyPlan: GEOG 502 GEOG 505 Spatial Dimensions of Chinese Development (5, max. 10) Addresses several major spatial topics critical to present-day China's development, including: population and land relationship, the spatial structures of economic activities and governments; rural-urban relations and transition; central-local relations; the hukou system; population mobility at different spatial scales and urban centers. View course details in MyPlan: GEOG 505 GEOG 511 Contemporary Research Design in Geography (5) Reviews the key steps in designing and executing high-caliber independent research in geography. Students generate a research proposal that can further their own thesis or dissertation research. View course details in MyPlan: GEOG 511 GEOG 513 Research Grant Workshop (5, max. 10) Writing research proposals. Participants learn to identify and approach sponsors; practice the peer-review process; develop a competitive research proposal. Prerequisite: GEOG 512 or GEOG 515 or equivalent; training and experience with quantitative, qualitative, or cartographic analysis; an already-formulated research project. View course details in MyPlan: GEOG 513 GEOG 514 GIS Problem Solving (5) Introduces geospatial information technologies including geographic information systems, global positioning systems, remote sensing, and spatial decision support systems for addressing complex geospatial problems. Students gain an understanding of integrated data processing strategies including problem definition, database design, data collection, data structuring, data analysis, and information presentation. Offered: S. View course details in MyPlan: GEOG 514 GEOG 517 Geospatial Data Analysis (5) Provides a practical introduction to spatial data analysis and geographic information systems. Topics include overlay, buffer and distance fundamentals, descriptive and inferential spatial statistics, spatial pattern analysis and spatial autocorrelations, global and local spatial measures, regression analysis and geographically weighed regression. Emphasizes comprehension and application. View course details in MyPlan: GEOG 517 GEOG 520 Research Seminar: Geographic Information Representation (5) Current issues in geographic information representation for geographic information systems (GIS). Includes representation for visualization, databases, and analyses. Prerequisite: one course in GIS. View course details in MyPlan: GEOG 520 GEOG 521 Research Seminar: Critical GIS (5) Examines theoretical and methodological foundations and practices of critical GIS research; considers philosophical and practical considerations in mixed methods research that incorporates GIS and other spatial technologies. View course details in MyPlan: GEOG 521 GEOG 522 Research Seminar: Space, Technology, and Society (5, max. 10) Examines social scientific and humanistic theorizations of space, technologies, and their interrelationships; uses theses theorizations to assess social/ cultural, political, and disciplinary implications of GIS, the geoweb, and emergent online mapping technologies. View course details in MyPlan: GEOG 522 GEOG 525 Advanced Qualitative Methods in Geography (5) Examines why and how qualitative methods can be used to pursue research in geography. Includes consideration of theoretical, ethical, and political issues that arise with qualitative methods. Offers considerable practice in such methods as ethnography, focus groups, interviewing, discourse and content analyses, narrative analysis, and archival analysis. View course details in MyPlan: GEOG 525 GEOG 526 Advanced Quantitative Methods in Geography (5) Introduces elementary spatial statistics and advanced statistical techniques in quantitative human geography. Methods reviewed include geographic applications of multiple regression analysis, spatial statistics and spatial autocorrelation, geographically weighted regression, factor analysis, discriminant analysis, and logistic regression. Prioritizes the interpretation and application of methods. Prerequisite: GEOG 326 or equivalent. View course details in MyPlan: GEOG 526 GEOG 531 Latin American Development Seminar (5, max. 10) Evolution of development theory in Latin America from a spatial perspective. Theories and development issues, using case studies from Latin America. How geographers have conceptualized development problems and solutions. Prerequisite: GEOG 430. View course details in MyPlan: GEOG 531 GEOG 532 Research Seminar: Advanced Topics in Agriculture and Food (5, max. 10) Examines classic and contemporary research and writing on agricultural development and food and hunger drawing from political economy, political ecology, poststructural theory, cultural studies, and feminist theory. View course details in MyPlan: GEOG 532 GEOG 541 Research Seminar: Feminist Geographies (5) Explores major research themes in feminist geographies. Particular attention to the concept that gendered identities and spaces are discursively (re)produced. Emphasizes recent feminist scholarship that emphasizes difference, as well as the intersections between gender, "race," ethnicity, sexuality, age, nationality, class, and other social identities and divisions. Offered: jointly with GWSS 541. View course details in MyPlan: GEOG 541 GEOG 542 Research Seminar: Social and Population Geography (5, max. 10) Classic and contemporary theoretical and empirical research in social and population geography. Specific focus changes annually. View course details in MyPlan: GEOG 542 GEOG 543 Research Seminar: Topics in Immigration, Ethnicity, and Race (5, max. 10) Theoretical and empirical research issues in the geographies of immigration, ethnicity, and race. Specific focus changes annually. View course details in MyPlan: GEOG 543 GEOG 553 Advanced Topics in Cultural Geography (5, max. 10) Focuses on important contemporary topics in geography and cultural studies, especially race and racism. Includes critical questions surrounding issues of representation, recognition, and redistribution. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: GEOG 553 GEOG 554 Research Seminar: Nature-Society Relations (5) Addresses key concepts and theoretical debates in nature-society relations. Provides resources for theorizing how power works on and through the natural environment. Explores geographic scholarship on scientific knowledge production, the politics of conservation, biotechnology and the environment, and the post-human and post-natural. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: GEOG 554 GEOG 555 Research Seminar: Culture, Place, and Politics (5) Explores theoretical and empirical connections between culture, place, and politics. Emphasizes contemporary critical perspectives and approaches to understanding power and meaning-making as spatial processes. Perspectives and approaches include cultural-political economy and critical place studies. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: GEOG 555 GEOG 560 Principles of GIS Mapping (5) Origins, development, and methods of cartographic mapping. Principles of data representation and map design for thematic mapping and spatial analysis. Introduction of principles of geographic information systems (GIS). View course details in MyPlan: GEOG 560 GEOG 561 Urban Geographic Information Systems (5) Uses geographic information systems to investigate urban/regional issues, including transportation, land use, environment, emergency response, and public health. Spatial data acquisition, structuring, management, and analysis in a GIS environment - for urban planning, government, and research applications. Prerequisite: minimum grade of 2.0 in GEOG 560 or permission of instructor. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: GEOG 561 GEOG 562 Coastal Geographic Information Systems (5) Combines lectures about fundamental concepts in geographic information systems with methods in hands-on computer lab assignments about coastal environment-society issues. Includes coastal-feature data measurement, characterization, and movement related to the land-water and environment-society dynamic. Prerequisite: GEOG 560 or equivalent. View course details in MyPlan: GEOG 562 GEOG 564 GIS and Decision Support (5) Combines lectures about geographic information systems and decision methods with hands-on computer assignments about regional and urban issues associated with such complex decision processes as planning, improvement programming, and capital project implementation. Emphasis on land, transportation, and water resource decision problems. Prerequisite: GEOG 560 or equivalent. View course details in MyPlan: GEOG 564 GEOG 565 Geographic Information Systems Programming (5) Covers GIS data structures and algorithms, plus map data systems used in GIS. Examines programming languages most applicable to GIS data management, analysis, and display work; particularly related to extending current commercial GIS methods using scripting environments as in ArcGIS. View course details in MyPlan: GEOG 565 GEOG 567 Research Seminar: Geography and Economic Development (5, max. 10) Explores ways in which economic and social changes affect the well-being and development of subnational, regional economies. Explanatory roles of such factors as labor and labor institutions, governments, technical change, corporations, capital markets, information costs, and international trade in the process of global restructuring. Specific focus changes annually. View course details in MyPlan: GEOG 567 GEOG 568 International Case Studies of GIS for Sustainability Management (5) Uses GIS and resilience thinking to explore sustainable development projects in a variety of cultural settings. Examines international, national, and regional perspectives in order to understand how different organizations view sustainability as undertaken through GIS projects. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: GEOG 568 GEOG 569 Geographic Information Systems Workshop (5) Practical experience applying geographic information system (GIS) tools to analyze spatial data. Workshop format involves team-based work on GIS application project for community or university partners; diverse background encouraged. Prerequisite: either 2.0 in GEOG 561 or 2.0 in GEOG 562. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: GEOG 569 GEOG 571 Research Seminar: Critical and Normative Ecologies (5) View course details in MyPlan: GEOG 571 GEOG 572 Research Seminar: Queer Geographies (5) Explores the relationship between queer theory and critical human geography. Covers classic themes and debates, as well as new and emerging topics. Asks how geographic thought can be queered, as well as how queer studies can be augmented or critiqued with a geographical imagination. View course details in MyPlan: GEOG 572 GEOG 573 Urban Political Geography: Research Seminar (5) Covers both classic and contemporary theoretical debates and research on the relation between power, place, and the local scale. Considers both conventional sites (e.g., the local state) as well as new forms and locations of city politics (e.g., sexuality and the body). View course details in MyPlan: GEOG 573 GEOG 574 Research Seminar: Geography, Law, and Social Control (5) Explores relationship between the construction and enforcement of law and the landscape of lived experience; reviews major approaches in socio-legal analysis and seeks to augment these with insights from contemporary human geography research; explores various ways in which geographical variance shapes legal behavior. View course details in MyPlan: GEOG 574 GEOG 575 Advanced Political Geography (5, max. 10) Provides resources for theorizing how politics shapes and is shaped by geographical relationships. Examines how politics are situated in complex material and discursive geographies that are partly reproduced through political negotiations. Examines interrelationships of contemporary capitalism with other complex systems of social and political power relations. Offered: jointly with JSIS B 575. View course details in MyPlan: GEOG 575 GEOG 576 Research Seminar: Geographies of Racial Formations and Postcolonialism (5) Overview of key insights from ethnic and Native studies, postcolonial, and critical race theories. Focuses on how geographers can build from this literature to deepen our understanding of the relationship between race, state formations, and power relations. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: GEOG 576 GEOG 578 Research Seminar: Theorizing the City (5) Considers classic and contemporary writings in urban theory in the twentieth century, including social ecology (Chicago School), political economy, and contemporary theoretical debates in poststructuralism, deconstructionism, and culture as they relate to cities and space. View course details in MyPlan: GEOG 578 GEOG 579 Geographies of Racial Capitalism (5) Genealogy of racial capitalism, involving work of Black radical scholars. Includes those with or against critical Marxist scholars such as WEB DuBois, Claudia Jones, Walter Rodney, the Boggses, and Cedric Robinson. Distinguishes historically and geographically specific dynamics: colonialism, transatlantic slavery, war and imperialism, labor regimes, finance capital, and carceral geographies. View course details in MyPlan: GEOG 579 GEOG 580 Medical Geography (3) Geography of disease, consideration in health systems planning. Analysis of distributions, diffusion models, migration studies. Application of distance, optimal location models to health systems planning; emergency medical services; distribution of health professionals; cultural variations in health behavior. Prerequisite: familiarity with social science research; health-related issues. Offered: jointly with HSERV 586. View course details in MyPlan: GEOG 580 GEOG 581 Seminar in Medical Geography (5, max. 10) Intensive research seminar dealing with new and promising research themes in medical geography and public health. Offered: jointly with HSERV 585. View course details in MyPlan: GEOG 581 GEOG 582 GIS Data Management (5) Examines the principles and application of geospatial database management software, including personal and enterprise geodatabase management solutions. Considers enterprise architectures for GIS relative to organizational size. Addresses collaborative uses of Internet, Intranet, and Extranet architectures. Offers case studies in database management, with a variety of dataset types and sizes. View course details in MyPlan: GEOG 582 GEOG 595 Special Topics in Geography (3-5, max. 10) Topics vary and are announced in the preceding quarter. Offered: AWSp. View course details in MyPlan: GEOG 595 GEOG 598 Geography Colloquium (1, max. 6) Participation in, and critique of, student thesis and dissertation research, faculty research, and visitor contributions. Offered: AWSp. View course details in MyPlan: GEOG 598 GEOG 600 Independent Study or Research (*-) Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: GEOG 600 GEOG 700 Master's Thesis (*-) Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: GEOG 700 GEOG 800 Doctoral Dissertation (*-) Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: GEOG 800 Office of the University Registrar registrar@uw.edu Modified: May 30, 2022