Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Finance Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Finance Topics Systems Training Forms & Documents Policies About Buying and Paying Travel and Expense Accounting Operations Payroll Tax and Unclaimed Property Banking and Cash Management Audit and Risk Management Budgets Sponsored Projects: Post-Award Financial Administration International Operations Investments Advisory Committee on Socially Responsible Investing Log Into ARC Log Into Concur About This Site Finance Announcements Finance Departments Careers with Columbia Finance EVP of Finance and Information Technology Financial Reports Organizational Charts Service Center Columbia Finance You are here: Home Systems Systems Financial systems at Columbia contain tools to enable you to create, track, and report financial transactions. Here, you'll learn about, gain access to, and log into these systems. I Want To sign-in icon Go to ARC Visit myColumbia to log into Accounting and Reporting at Columbia (ARC). sign-in icon Go to FFE/FinSys Visit myColumbia to log into Financial Front End (FFE)/Financial Systems (FinSys). sign-in icon Go to Concur Visit Columbia Travel and Expense to log into Concur. database icon Go to FDS Visit myColumbia to log into the Financial Data Store (FDS) desktop icon Take the Getting Access to Finance Systems Training Learn how to get access to ARC and other Finance systems and how to submit a Financial Systems Security Application (FSSA) and a Financial Inquiry Application (FIA). book icon Read the Financial Systems Security Handbook Learn how to request or approve system access to any of the financial systems. book icon Read the Reinstate ARC/FinSys Access Handbook Learn how to request or approve a reinstatement or extension of ARC and FinSys access. Get to Know ARC Accounting and Reporting at Columbia (ARC) is the University’s web-based financial system, which includes modules for general accounting, procurement, and project costing (tracking financial information over a project life). Learn about ARC Required Trainings by Departmental Role Required Trainings by Central Role Accessing ARC Apply for Access to ARC Completing the Financial Systems Security Application (job aid) Review your Financial Status Security Application status (job aid) View Your Security Access in ARC (job aid) Log Into ARC ARC Codes and Tools Find ARC Codes and Tools ARC/FinSys Access Reinstatement Reinstate or Extend ARC/FinSys Access Get to Know FFE/FinSys The Financial Front End (FFE)/Financial Systems (FinSys) consists of a suite of web modules that allow users to access and process financial activities inclusive of budgeting, cash management, and payroll for select University populations. Apply for Access to FFE/FinSys Log Into FFE/FinSys Budget Tool Learn about the Budget Tool Take the Budget Tool Basics Training (web-based) Cash Module Learn about the Cash Module Take the Using the Cash Module Training (web-based) Time Entry for Casual/Support Employees Managing FFE Time Entry Transactions (job aid) Get to Know Concur Concur is Columbia's online travel booking and expense management tool. Getting Started with Concur (website) Take the Concur Travel and Expense Training (web-based) Log Into Concur (website) Learn about Mobile Tools for Travel and Expense (website) Get to Know FDS Financial Data Store (FDS) provides access to financial data from ARC. Reports run from FDS can be viewed online, downloaded to multiple formats, printed, or saved. Learn about FDS Apply for Access to FDS Access, Reset, or Change Your FDS Preference Settings (job aid) Find FDS Reports (job aid) Find Commonly Used FDS Reports Access FDS On-Demand Reports Interface (job aid) Take the Advanced FDS/Self-Service Reporting Training (web-based) Legacy Applications and Reporting In July 2012, our legacy financial systems were replaced by ARC. The following applications and reporting tools are still available in read-only mode for information prior to July 2012: Accounts Payable Control Analytical Review (APCAR) APCAR was the University’s automated payment voucher processing system, used to electronically submit payment vouchers to Accounts Payable. Basic transaction reports derived from APCAR date before July 2012. Access and Run APCAR Invoice Inquiry Reports (job aid) Departmental Advanced Reporting and Tracking System (DARTS) DARTS is a web-based legacy application that brought together diverse University financial data allowing users to run a variety of management reports. These reports are read only and only for data before July 2012. Apply for Access to DARTS Take the Use DARTS for Legacy FAS Reporting Training (web-based) FAS Financial Accounting System (FAS) was the University’s previous financial system. You will find pre-July 2012 FAS reports and Consolidated Operating Budget (COB) reports as well as other legacy report functions in FAS Data Warehouse Reports (DWR). Apply for Access to FAS Access FAS DWR Reports (via MyColumbia) More Systems at Columbia Effort Certification and Reporting Technology (ECERT) The ECRT system facilitates both the monitoring of effort distributions during the year and the required annual certification of effort. Enterprise Learning Management (ELM) ELM is a software application designed to deliver, track, report on, and manage trainings and learner activity. Nelnet Nelnet transacts online payments for student accounts. [email protected] (PAC) PAC is the human resources system that integrates and processes all human resources, benefits, and payroll transactions for Columbia University. PowerFAIDS PowerFAIDS is the University financial aid system that allows administrators to award, communicate, report, and track financial aid. Student Information System (SIS) SIS is the system of record for student data regarding admissions, financial aid, registration, transcripts, billing, and housing functions for all schools and offices at the University. Student Services Online (SSOL) SSOL is a multipurpose tool that manages course registration and student accounts. TalentLink TalentLink is the system used at Columbia University to manage job descriptions, requisitions, and applicant information for the recruitment of administrative personnel. Vergil Vergil is a course planning tool for students that searches by instructor, date and time, department, subject area, keywords, and other criteria. Columbia Finance615 West 131st Street, Studebaker Building · New York, NY 10027 Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close