Skip to main content The University of Texas at Austin Menu Header Helpful Links Current Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Families & Visitors Search Search Maps Directory UT Direct Give Apply Search Search About Academics Academic Experience Areas of Study Extended Campus Cockrell School of Engineering College of Education College of Fine Arts College of Liberal Arts College of Natural Sciences College of Pharmacy Dell Medical School Graduate School Jackson School of Geosciences LBJ School of Public Affairs McCombs School of Business Moody College of Communication School of Architecture School of Information School of Law School of Nursing Steve Hicks School of Social Work School of Undergraduate Studies Admissions & Aid Be a Longhorn What Starts Here Changes the World. It's more than a motto. It’s what we prove each and every day, as Texas and its Exes advance discovery and innovation on a global stage. Join us. Undergraduate Admissions Graduate Admissions School of Law Admissions Dell Medical School Admissions Tuition & Costs Financial Aid Campus Visits Campus & Community Explore Your Passions Thousands of events, from concerts and film screenings to readings and lectures. More than 1,100 student organizations. Incredible facilities and special attractions. And it's all set in the heart of one of the world's greatest cities. Welcome home. Arts & Culture Campus Destinations Entrepreneurship & Innovation Health & Wellness Housing & Dining Life in Austin Report Misconduct Safety & Security Student Involvement Longhorn Resources Research Change the World Longhorns are passionate about making the world a better place, united by the belief that creating and sharing knowledge can save lives and transform society. Come explore our vast research enterprise — or better yet, create, innovate and discover with us. Overview Student Research Units & Centers Off-Campus Research Sites Libraries Experts Guide Athletics News Home Research : Student Research Student Research Students come to The University of Texas at Austin to change the world, and that isn't accomplished just by soaking up knowledge. Our students also grow from consumers of knowledge to creators of it through direct participation in the research process. Undergraduates can start as early as freshman year, and the graduate student experience culminates with a novel contribution to the student's field. Whether studying nanotechnology, child welfare, or literature, the research conducted by students and faculty makes UT Austin one of the most highly rated public research universities in the nation. Office of Undergraduate Research (OUR) The OUR fosters undergraduate engagement across the disciplines by facilitating research opportunities related to students’ interests and goals, raising the visibility of undergraduate research on campus, and helping students share their work with others. Learn more EUREKA Research Database Browse a selection of undergraduate research opportunities and a list of faculty research areas through our searchable, interdisciplinary database. Learn more Undergraduate Research Journals Explore the many different student-run research journals at UT Austin. In addition to a multidisciplinary undergraduate research journal, the university offers several specialty journals. Learn more Research Week Research Week is UT Austin's annual celebration of undergraduate research and creative activity, providing opportunities for undergraduates to explore UT’s vast, diverse community of research and find ways to get involved. Learn more Freshman Research Initiative The College of Natural Sciences offers the pioneering Freshman Research Initiative, giving first-year students the opportunity to initiate and engage in authentic research experience with faculty and graduate students. Learn more Resources for Undergraduate Researchers Science Undergraduate Research Group Bridging Disciplines Programs McNair Scholars Program Intellectual Entrepreneurship Pre-Graduate School Internship Office of Research Support College and School Resources for Undergraduate Researchers Cockrell School of Engineering College of Liberal Arts College of Natural Sciences School of Nursing McCombs School of Business Graduate Student Research From classroom projects to your final thesis, report, dissertation or treatise, conducting research is a significant part of the graduate student experience. UT Austin supports graduate-level research endeavors across all fields, providing an environment that promotes discovery, open inquiry and innovation. Learn more Connect with UT Austin Subscribe to our newsletter Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkedIn YouTube Starts With You Footer Helpful Links Access Course Syllabi and Instructor CVs Campus Carry Contact Counseling and Mental Health Diversity and Inclusion Action Plan Diversity, Equity, and Disability Resources ♿ Emergency Information Fraud, Waste, or Abuse Hazing Prevention and Response HEERF/CARES Act Compliance Jobs Online Institutional Resumes Public Forum On Campus Site Policies State of Texas Statewide Search Texas Homeland Security Texas Veterans Portal Title IX Reporting (Sexual Misconduct) UT System Web Accessibility Policy Web Privacy Policy © The University of Texas at Austin 2022