COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW Office of Adult Learning Section Menu Adult Mentoring Advantage Program (A-MAP) Adult Learner Of The Year (ALOTY) Alpha Sigma Lambda Honor Society Events Learn More about the Office of Adult Learning Location and Hours Osher Reentry Scholarship Program Shocker Pathway Shocker Pathway Transfer Fair Shocker Stories Video tour of the Office of Adult Learning Stop Video The health and safety of our students, employees, and community remain our top priority. Please contact us with your questions or concerns. Contact Us Request Information Meet the Staff Serving Adult Learners at Wichita State Whether you are finishing a degree, changing your course to another option or beginning a new path, we are here to help every step of the way. The Office of Adult Learning is here to help by providing the following: A place to connect with other adult learners The Joe Stone Lounge — a relaxing place for adults to study and recharge A resource room with student computers and printing A coffee bar for Returning Adult students The only Osher Rentry Scholarship Program in Kansas Alpha Sigma Lambda Honor Society The Adult Mentoring Advantage Program (A-MAP) Designated parking for appointment We are also dedicated advocates and mentors for adult learners here at Wichita State, and seek to help student navigate the university and find additional on campus and off campus support and resources. Wichita State offers hundreds of classes on a variety of days and times we have the tools to help you succeed. We are proud to be recognized by BestColleges.com as one of the top 50 colleges in the nation for Returning Adult education. Adult Learner Enrollment Checklist Shocker Stories Who are adult learners at Wichita State? Read our Shocker Stories, a sampling of how some of our returning adult students found their way back to college through Wichita State. Read the stories No. 1 Transfer Destination in Kansas If you're transferring to WSU, we want to give you credit for the work you've done at your previous institution. Our new Transfer Gateway will let you estimate how many of those credits will transfer to your desired degree program at Wichita State. See how your credits will transfer Transfer Gateway How-to Video Additional Resources: Academic Advising Admissions: Adult Learners Counseling and Prevention Services Degree Programs Graduate School Military and Veteran Services More Info for Military & Veteran Students Office of Financial Aid Office of Online Learning Prior Learning Specialized Advising Testing Services Transfer Credits 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©