Hilton College - University of Houston Skip to main content Restrict my search to College of Global Hospitality Leadership Submit Close Login to AccessUH Give to UH Search Conrad N. Hilton College of Global Hospitality Leadership About Our Mission Celebrating 50 Reasons We Are Hospitality Diversity Degree Programs Points of Pride Meet Dean Dennis Reynolds Dean’s Reports Dean's Advisory Board Dean’s Leadership Team Meet Our Faculty Spec’s Beverage & Food Appreciation Laboratory Sysco Student Kitchen Hospitality Industry Archives Hospitality Industry Hall of Honor Inductees Cougar Grounds Students Future Students Degree Programs Consider the Honors College Undergraduate Admissions Graduate Admissions Summer Camps Students Available for Your Questions Current Students Academic Advising Student Resources Sign Up for Student LISTSERV Undergraduate Degree Requirements Graduate Degree Requirements University Commencement Ceremony Transfer Students Course Catalogs Undergraduate Graduate Doctorate Study Abroad Study Abroad Application Form Australia: Edith Cowan University France: La Rochelle Business School France: University of Angers Hong Kong: HK PolyU Peru: Summer in Cusco Peru: USIL South Korea: Sejong University UH Study Abroad Programs Culinary Institute of America Experience Tuition, Fees & Financial Aid Scholarships Student Organizations Request Information Careers Find Jobs and Internships Student Login Alumni-Login Career Planner Checklist Career Fair For Employers Opportunities to Connect With Our Students Post a Job or Internship Register for Career Fair Recruit on Campus University Career Services Placement Reports News & Events News Releases Faculty Accolades Pineapple POPS Newsletter Hospitality Graduate School Fair Gourmet Night Calendar Alumni & Giving Alumni Alumni Board Eric’s Club Eric’s Club Members Keepers of the Lamp Honoring Erik Give Back Our Hotel Eric's Restaurant Fred Parks Boardroom Hotel Directory Contact Us Request Information Phone Book Directions Faculty Directory College Staff Directory Hotel Directory Doctoral Student Directory Virtual Tour Professor Emeriti WE ARE HOSPITALITY 92%of our students have jobs upon graduation 30countries represent our student body 776undergraduate students 99MS and Executive Master's students 29MS in Global Hospitality Business students from 14 countries 14Ph.D. in Hospitality Administration students $1,000,000 in merit-based college and university scholarships awarded 9,526alumni work in hospitality leadership positions in more than 50 countries around the world HOSPITALITY MEANS BUSINESS! Hospitality is global. And at the Conrad N. Hilton College of Global Hospitality Leadership, we stand ready to help you find your place in our diverse industry. Our graduates realize incredible career opportunities around the world in lodging, restaurants, tourism, catering and events, casinos, spa and club management, hotel development, revenue management, hospitality consulting, food safety, conference services, hospitality technology, sports and entertainment venues, marketing, social media, and wine and spirits distribution – and so much more! Our specialized business degree program in hospitality offers seven undergraduate, graduate and doctoral degrees, as well as a minor in Beverage Management and Marketing. With our bachelor’s degree in Global Hospitality Leadership, undergraduate students can choose from tracks in Lodging Management, Foodservice Management, Wine & Beverage Studies or Project Management & Analytics. We do talk about menus, but our focus is always on management. That’s why many aspiring chefs also come here to learn about the business and operational side of the restaurant industry, either before or after they complete a culinary program. Here, we prepare the global hospitality leaders of tomorrow. And with our team of dedicated counselors in career development, we are excited to help you navigate this global industry through internships and career fairs where we bring top hospitality employers to you. Hospitality is the world’s No. 1 employer. We ARE hospitality. Enroll today and let us help you discover a whole new world of career possibilities! Request Information Apply Now Our tripartite master’s degree in Global Hospitality Business opens the doors of the world to give our students the experiences of a lifetime, while paving the way for international careers in hospitality. Through a partnership with EHL in Lausanne, Switzerland and the School of Hotel and Tourism Management at The Hong Kong Polytechnic University, this program offers an immersion of myriad cultures across three continents in just three semesters – with three world-class faculties and unparalleled industry exposure through a rigorous academic business project and professional certifications. It also provides students with an extensive understanding of world markets and business field trips to tourism hubs across the globe. For more information, contact Jennifer Glickman at jglickman@uh.edu or 713.743.4790.Experience the world Calendar CLICK HERE TO SEE MONTHLY CALENDAR TOGETHER, WE RISE TOGETHER, WE SOAR Conrad N. Hilton College Hilton University of Houston 4450 University Dr., Room 227 Houston, TX 77204-3028 Directions For Hotel Reservations Eric's Restaurant Our Mission Meet Our Dean What’s On Your mind? Faculty Directory Degree Programs Course Catalogs Scholarships To Hire Our Students Conrad N. Hilton College P & T Guidelines ©2022 University of Houston. All rights reserved. Report a problem with this page Texas.gov Texas Homeland Security TRAIL Fraud Reporting Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Linking Notice Privacy Notice Open Records/Public Information Act Institutional Résumé Required Reports Electronic & Information Resources Accessibility Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness University Policies