Skip to main content MyUW Calendar Directories Libraries UW Medicine Maps UW News Helpful Links Computing/IT ISC/Workday Husky Card UW Bothell UW Tacoma UW Facebook UW Twitter University of Washington University of Washington Students Parents Faculty & Staff Alumni Quick Links About Our Units Working at UW Student Life COVID-19 Info & Updates Support Student Life Living & dining On-Campus Housing Off-Campus Housing Fraternity Housing Sorority Housing Residential Dining Husky Den Food Court Groups & activities Associated Students of UW CIRCLE The Daily Ethnic Cultural Center Fraternity and Sorority Life Graduate and Professional Student Senate The HUB Husky Neighborhood Interns Peer Health Educators Q Center Recreation Residential Life Student Activities Office Unite UW: Once united, never divided Health Campus Food Pantry Counseling Crisis Connections Emergency Care Health Advocacy, Training & Education Medical Care Mental Health Recreation Digital Wellness 101: Taking Control of Your Life Online Task Force on Student Mental Health Campus safety Bias Incident Advisory Committee Community Standards and Student Conduct Husky NightWalk SafeCampus Sexual Assault Resources Student Care and Consultation UW Police Department UWPD Victim Advocacy Career prep Career & Internship Center Finding and maximizing campus jobs Blog Student Life Menu About Our Units Working at UW Student Life COVID-19 Info & Updates Support Student Life Living & dining On-Campus Housing Off-Campus Housing Fraternity Housing Sorority Housing Residential Dining Husky Den Food Court Groups & activities Associated Students of UW CIRCLE The Daily Ethnic Cultural Center Fraternity and Sorority Life Graduate and Professional Student Senate The HUB Husky Neighborhood Interns Peer Health Educators Q Center Recreation Residential Life Student Activities Office Unite UW: Once united, never divided Health Campus Food Pantry Counseling Crisis Connections Emergency Care Health Advocacy, Training & Education Medical Care Mental Health Recreation Digital Wellness 101: Taking Control of Your Life Online Task Force on Student Mental Health Campus safety Bias Incident Advisory Committee Community Standards and Student Conduct Husky NightWalk SafeCampus Sexual Assault Resources Student Care and Consultation UW Police Department UWPD Victim Advocacy Career prep Career & Internship Center Finding and maximizing campus jobs Blog Home Student Life About Support Student Life Support Student Life Close Menu Home About Support Student Life Campaign Volunteers Student Life builds upon the UW’s leading-edge student experience on a large-scale yet personal level. We enliven the Husky Experience and bolster student success within and beyond the classroom by supporting students’ intellectual, physical and emotional development. Through clubs and activities, leadership and service, and a dedicated network of mentors, students grow as individuals, embrace diversity and learn to engage in their communities. Our Priorities Scholarships Student scholarships are cornerstones to access to higher education, a diverse student body, social mobility, and provide the greatest impact on the student experience. Career transformation Students should leave the UW empowered to navigate a dynamic society and workplace, bearing the right combination of self-understanding and problem-solving capabilities to continually reinvent themselves as necessary. Student engagement and success High impact experiences inside and outside the classroom develop and support student excellence, critical and innovative thinking, building an extensive network, and promoting social empowerment and leadership development. This fund strategically scales services and programming to ensure that these experiences are accessible to all students. Donations at Work Keeping our promise We believe students from all economic backgrounds should have the opportunity to attend the UW. The Husky Promise guarantees full tuition and standard fees will be covered by grant or scholarship support for eligible Washington state students. More about the Husky Promise Give to the Husky Promise By veterans, for veterans Navy veteran Lindsay Zike created a place for fellow vets to lead and lean on each other as they transition to civilian life. Read the full story Give to the Student Veterans Support Fund More Student Life Funds Click to give… UW General Scholarship Fund Student Life Vice President’s Fund for Excellence Denzil J. Suite Student Emergency Fund Fraternity and Sorority Life UW Parent & Family Fund for Student Success Recreation Q Center HUB Student Health & Wellness Counseling Center The Daily All other student life endeavors, including Disability Resources for Students, The UW Police Department, etc. Questions? Do you have a question about making a gift to Student Life? Please contact Tomitha Blake at tblake@uw.edu or 206.221.6063. Home About Support Student Life Campaign Volunteers Connect with us Email us or call 206-543-4972 Blog Spring 2022 Resources & Opportunities (Vol. 4) – Husky Pawket Guide 2 weeks ago Spring 2022 Resources & Opportunities (Vol. 3) – Husky Pawket Guide 4 weeks ago Spring 2022 Resources & Opportunities (Vol. 2) – Husky Pawket Guide 1 month ago University of Washington Be boundless Connect with us: Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Pinterest Accessibility Contact Us Jobs Campus Safety My UW Rules Docket Privacy Terms Newsletter © 2022 University of Washington | Seattle, WA