By continuing to use this site, you agree to the use of cookies in accordance with our privacy policy. Dismiss Stay Safe The official source of public health information for Syracuse University. Skip to Content Open menu About Admissions Academics Life Athletics More Search the University Open search Popular searches Close menu Home About Toggle dropdown Leadership Vision & Mission Consumer Information Facts & Figures Plan Your Visit Campus Map History News Partnerships Work at Syracuse Social Media Bookstore Brand Help & Contacts Admissions Toggle dropdown Undergraduate Graduate Online Part-Time Cost & Aid Request Information Visit & Tour Apply Academics Toggle dropdown Schools & Colleges Undergraduate Majors & Minors Graduate Degrees Online Programs Syracuse University Global Study Abroad Opportunities & Support Calendars Departments Research Centers & Institutes Libraries, Collections & Galleries Academic Administration Life Toggle dropdown Accessibility & Diversity Campus Highlights Events Calendar Services & Support Meals & Dining Housing Groups & Activities Recreation & Facilities For Students For Veterans & Military For Faculty & Staff For Parents & Families A-Z Index Sitemap Login Athletics Men’s Sports Toggle dropdown Basketball Cross Country Football Lacrosse Rowing Soccer Track and Field Women’s Sports Toggle dropdown Basketball Cross Country Field Hockey Ice Hockey Lacrosse Rowing Soccer Softball Tennis Track and Field Volleyball Athletics Dept. Toggle dropdown Facilities Staff Directory Academic Honors Community Service Spirit Program Varsity Club Sports Medicine Championships Fan Zone Toggle dropdown Dome Schedule Seating Information Orange All Access Otto’s Kids Club Game Photos Promotions Orange Club Schedules News Alumni About Toggle dropdown Notable Alumni Alumni Association Awards News Events and Clubs Toggle dropdown Orange Central Northeast Midwest South West World/Affinity Regions Toggle dropdown Atlanta Boston Chicago Los Angeles Middle East New York San Francisco Washington, DC Services Toggle dropdown Career Network Generation Orange Directory Profile Class Notes Giving Contact Contact Visit Apply Coronavirus Updates Forever Orange Home Admissions Undergraduate Apply Early Decision More from this Section Deadlines FAQ Application Mailing Addresses Enrollment Options College-Specific Requirements What We Look For AP/IB/CLEP Credits Early Decision If Syracuse University is your first choice, consider applying for Early Decision (ED) or Early Decision II (ED II). As an ED or ED II candidate, you agree to enroll at Syracuse University if admitted to your preferred college. You may apply to other colleges and universities under a standard or early action plan, with the understanding that you will withdraw these applications if admitted to your first choice program at Syracuse University. ED candidates are typically notified of their admission decision prior to January 1 (prior to February 1 for EDII applicants). Begin your application Why Early Decision? Your application will stand out The University appreciates and recognizes your commitment to the institution. Plus, there is a much smaller pool of applications for Early Decision compared to Regular Decision. You’ll receive full consideration for financial aid All Early Decision applicants receive the same consideration for financial aid and merit scholarships as Regular Decision applicants. Should you be admitted, you’ll receive your financial aid award soon after receiving your admission decision. You’ll have a decision earlier Get the application process out of the way and enjoy the rest of your senior year! Save on application fees—if you’re admitted you don’t have to submit applications to other schools. Apply earlier to residential Learning Communities Every year more freshmen request to live in a Learning Community . Acceptance into a Learning Community is on a first-come, first-served basis. Early Decision students have early access to the housing application. Important Information Early Decision is binding, but only if you're admitted to your first choice of college/program. If you're admitted to your second choice or alternate college/program, you'll have until May 1 to reply to the offer of admission. As noted on the ED Agreement, if you apply for financial aid and are not offered an award that makes attendance possible you may decline the offer of admission and be released from the ED commitment. Early Decision Agreement Submission of the ED Agreement can be done electronically through the Common Application, or by filling out the agreement and submitting by mail , by fax to 315.443.3423, or scan and send to orange@syr.edu . Related Pages Early Decision Agreement Application Deadlines and Timeline Be aware of the application deadlines for individual programs and enrollment options. More Admission Plans If applying for fall, first-year applicants to Syracuse University are offered two ways to apply: either through the Early Decision plan or the Regular Decision plan. Popular Toggle dropdown Academic Calendar Campus Map Careers Libraries Majors and Minors Visit and Tour A-Z Toggle dropdown Academic Departments Schools and Colleges Sitemap Search Contact Toggle dropdown Admissions Financial Aid Emergency Contacts Human Resources Make a Gift Login Toggle dropdown MySlice Blackboard SUMail Syracuse University 900 South Crouse Ave. Syracuse, NY 13244 Phone: +1.315.443.1870 Follow S.U. on Instagram Like S.U. on Facebook Follow S.U. on Twitter Follow S.U. on LinkedIn Follow S.U. on Tiktok Subscribe to S.U. on YouTube © Syracuse University. Knowledge crowns those who seek her. Accessibility Accreditation Emergencies Privacy