Search | Directories | Reference Tools UW Home > Discover UW > Student Guide UW Bothell Course Descriptions UW Tacoma Course Descriptions Glossary SCHOOL OF MEDICINE MICROBIOLOGY (MEDICINE) MICROBIOLOGY Detailed course offerings (Time Schedule) are available for Spring Quarter 2022 Summer Quarter 2022 Autumn Quarter 2022 MICROM 101 Microbes and Society (5) NW Intended for liberal arts majors and students not majoring in the biological sciences. Focuses on activities of bacteria, viruses, and other microorganisms, and their influence on humans. Microbe-related topics include disease, bioterrorism, food, biotechnology, and ecology. Examines the nature of scientific inquiry, along with major biological concepts. View course details in MyPlan: MICROM 101 MICROM 301 General Microbiology (3) NW D. Anderson, R. Bumgarner Acquaints students with microorganisms and their activities. Topics include microbial cell structure and function, metabolism, microbial genetics, and the role of microorganisms in disease, immunity, and other selected applied areas. Prerequisite: either CHEM 120, CHEM 140, CHEM 142, or CHEM 145. Offered: ASpS. View course details in MyPlan: MICROM 301 MICROM 302 General Microbiology Laboratory (2) NW Laboratory course primarily for students taking MICROM 301. Covers a variety of microbiological techniques, with experiments designed to illustrate major concepts of bacteriology, virology, and immunology. No auditors. Offered: ASpS. View course details in MyPlan: MICROM 302 MICROM 402 Fundamentals of General Microbiology Laboratory (3) NW Isolation of a broad range of nonpathogenic bacteria from natural sources, using selective and enrichment techniques, with microscopic, biochemical, and molecular identification. Related exercises include genetics, physiology, quantitation, and growth energetics. Prerequisite: BIOL 200. Offered: ASp. View course details in MyPlan: MICROM 402 MICROM 410 Fundamentals of General Microbiology I (3) NW Survey of the microbial world, metabolism, biosynthesis, regulation, growth, structure, and function. Required for students majoring in microbiology; recommended for students majoring in biology. Prerequisite: minimum grade of 2.3 in BIOL 200; either CHEM 223, CHEM 237, or CHEM 335. Instructors: Parsek, Traxler Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: MICROM 410 MICROM 411 Bacterial Genetics (4) NW Molecular genetics: description of fundamental genetic processes such as mutation, repair, genetic exchange, recombination, and gene expression. Use of genetic strategies to analyze complex biological processes. Focuses on prokaryotic organisms. Prerequisite: BIOL 200; either CHEM 223, CHEM 237, or CHEM 335. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: MICROM 411 MICROM 412 Prokaryotic Diversity (3) NW Structure, biochemical properties, and genetics of the major groups of prokaryotes. Prerequisite: BIOL 200. Instructors: Greenberg, Leigh Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: MICROM 412 MICROM 413 Special Topics in Microbiology (1, max. 3) Examines current subjects in microbiology. Credit/no-credit only. View course details in MyPlan: MICROM 413 MICROM 431 Prokaryotic Recombinant DNA Techniques (3) NW Laboratory course emphasizing concepts and techniques/methodologies in recombinant DNA research employing bacteria and their viruses. Topics and experiments/demonstrations include genomic and plasmid DNA isolation, restriction mapping, cloning, transposon mutagenesis, sequencing, and Western and Southern blotting. No auditors. Prerequisite: either BIOL 200 or MICROM 301. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: MICROM 431 MICROM 435 Microbial Ecology (3) NW Consideration of the various roles that microorganisms, particularly bacteria and cyanobacteria, play in environmental processes. The interrelationships among microorganisms and the effects of the physical, chemical, and biological properties of their environment are discussed and assessed. Prerequisite: BIOL 180. Instructors: Stahl View course details in MyPlan: MICROM 435 MICROM 442 Medical Bacteriology (3) NW Medically important bacterial pathogens are discussed in terms of the clinical, therapeutic, and epidemiological aspects of diseases caused by them, molecular mechanisms of pathogenesis and their identification in the clinical laboratory. Laboratory course, MICROM 443 coordinates. Prerequisite: BIOL 200. Instructors: Cookson Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: MICROM 442 MICROM 443 Medical Bacteriology Laboratory (3) NW Required for medical technology students, microbiology majors; elective for medical students. Procedures for isolation and identification of pathogenic bacteria, testing their susceptibility to antibiotics. No auditors. Prerequisite: BIOL 200. Offered: AW. View course details in MyPlan: MICROM 443 MICROM 445 Medical Virology (3) NW Introduces medical virology emphasizing basic understanding of the pathogenesis and replication of medically important viruses including the spread, diagnosis, epidemiology, treatment, and prevention of human viral diseases. Prerequisite: either BIOL 180 or BIOL 200; Sp. Instructors: Lagunoff, Smith View course details in MyPlan: MICROM 445 MICROM 450 Molecular Biology of Viruses (3) NW Introduction to the molecular biology of viruses and virus-host relationships. Designed for advanced undergraduates and graduate students in the biological sciences. Coverage includes bacterial and animal viruses, with an emphasis on the molecular mechanisms of viral gene expression and regulation. Prerequisite: BIOL 200. Instructors: Champoux Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: MICROM 450 MICROM 460 Medical Mycology and Parasitology (3) D. ANDERSON, M. CHANDLER, C. FISHER, S. MURPHY Examines medically important fungi and parasites in terms of the symptoms, diagnosis, epidemiology, and therapy of the diseases they cause as well as their mechanisms of pathogenesis. The laboratory course MICROM 461 complements this lecture course but is not required. Prerequisite: BIOL 200 or MICROM 301 Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: MICROM 460 MICROM 461 Medical Mycology and Parasitology Laboratory (2) D. ANDERSON, M. CHANDLER Hands-on practice to identify medically important fungi and parasites, using live, preserved, and stained samples. Demonstrations along with limited procedures are used to illustrate important features used to distinguish organisms. Prerequisite: Prerequisite: MICROM 460, which may be taken concurrently. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: MICROM 461 MICROM 482 Peer Teaching Assistants in Microbiology (1-5, max. 10) Direct experience in teaching a microbiology laboratory class. Peer TA's attend concurrent accompanying lecture course, meet weekly to coordinate, give introductory lab remarks, supervise the execution of lab exercises, and assist in preparing/grading of quizzes/exams. Training in teaching techniques, approaches. Student evaluation provided. Prerequisite: MICROM 402; MICROM 410. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: MICROM 482 MICROM 495 Honors Undergraduate Research (*-) Leigh Specific problems in microbiology or immunology. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: MICROM 495 MICROM 496 Undergraduate Library Research (2) An introduction to library research techniques and to microbiological literature. Staff assign a topic and supervise the project. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: MICROM 496 MICROM 499 Undergraduate Laboratory Research (*-, max. 35) Leigh Specific problems in microbiology or immunology. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: MICROM 499 MICROM 500 Introduction to Research (*, max. 20) Introduction to research areas of the faculty and the techniques employed in their investigations. Prerequisite: graduate standing in microbiology or permission of instructor. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: MICROM 500 MICROM 520 Seminar (1, max. 30) Fang Credit/no-credit only. Offered: AWSp. View course details in MyPlan: MICROM 520 MICROM 522 Current Research in Microbiology (1, max. 30) Weekly student and faculty seminar presentations based on the current literature. Prerequisite: graduate standing in microbiology. Instructors: Harwood, Merrikh, Parsek Credit/no-credit only. Offered: AWSp. View course details in MyPlan: MICROM 522 MICROM 526 Research of Cell Surface Problems (1, max. 30) Weekly research seminar and discussion of scientific literature pertaining to the process of membrane protein biogenesis. Prerequisite: permission of instructor. Instructors: Traxler Credit/no-credit only. View course details in MyPlan: MICROM 526 MICROM 529 Mechanisms of Bacterial Pathogenesis (1, max. 30) Student and faculty seminar presentations based on current research pertaining to mechanisms of bacterial pathogenesis at the molecular and cellular levels. Prerequisite: graduate standing in microbiology. Instructors: Fang Credit/no-credit only. Offered: AWSp. View course details in MyPlan: MICROM 529 MICROM 532 Methanogenesis Research Meeting (1, max. 30) Weekly seminar concerning research topics in the genetics and biochemistry of selected bacteria. Prerequisite: MICROM 410, permission of instructor. Instructors: Leigh Credit/no-credit only. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: MICROM 532 MICROM 533 Herpesvirus Research Meeting (1, max. 30) Weekly research seminar and discussion of scientific literature pertaining to the study of molecular virology of Kaposi's Sarcoma-associated herpesvirus. Prerequisite: permission of instructor. Instructors: Lagunoff Credit/no-credit only. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: MICROM 533 MICROM 534 Research Seminar in Salmonella Pathogenesis (1, max. 30) Fang Provides a formal group setting for discussion and evaluation of a student's research progress. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: MICROM 534 MICROM 540 Virology (3) J. Hyde, M. Lagunoff, J. Smith The molecular biology, transmission, and pathogenesis of human viruses will be explored. In addition to general principles of virology, lectures and paper discussions will focus on specific human pathogens including HIV, herpesviruses, ebolaviruses, alphaviruses, and adenoviruses, among others. Recommended: one year of undergraduate cellular and molecular biology Offered: A, even years. View course details in MyPlan: MICROM 540 MICROM 553 Molecular Interactions of Bacteria with their Hosts (3) The processes bacteria employ to shape interactions with their hosts will be explored in molecular detail through selected examples in the literature. Prerequisite: One year of undergraduate cellular and molecular biology. ; recommended: An introductory course in microbiology is recommended. Offered: Sp, odd years. View course details in MyPlan: MICROM 553 MICROM 554 Seminar in Molecular and Medical Microbiology (1, max. 15) Weekly one-hour seminar in which recent advances in molecular biology of microbial pathogenesis or the current research of the participants is presented and discussed critically. Prerequisite: permission of instructor. Instructors: Cookson Credit/no-credit only. Offered: AWSp. View course details in MyPlan: MICROM 554 MICROM 555 Advanced Clinical Microbiology (2.5) Attendance at daily plate rounds of the Division of Clinical Microbiology. Designed to increase understanding of clinical microbiological work and its application to the care of the patient. Prerequisite: MICROM 443 and permission of instructor. Instructors: Butler-Wu, Fang Credit/no-credit only. Offered: AWSp. View course details in MyPlan: MICROM 555 MICROM 560 Research and Journal Club in Retrovirology (1, max. 30) Weekly research seminar and discussion of literature in areas of retroviral replication and transformation. Prerequisite: graduate standing or permission of instructor. Instructors: Linial Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: MICROM 560 MICROM 562 Oncogene and Retrovirus Research Seminar (1, max. 30) Weekly discussions of ongoing research related to retroviral replication, retroviral oncogeneses and pathology. Prerequisite: graduate standing or permission of instructor. Instructors: Linial, Overbaugh Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: MICROM 562 MICROM 585 Research in Cell and Molecular Biology (1, max. 30) Weekly research seminar. Prerequisite: permission of instructor. Instructors: Champoux Credit/no-credit only. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: MICROM 585 MICROM 588 Research in Applied Microbiology (1, max. 30) Weekly research seminar and discussion of scientific literature pertaining to applied microbiology. Prerequisite: permission of instructor. Instructors: Lidstrom Credit/no-credit only. Offered: jointly with CHEM E 588; AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: MICROM 588 MICROM 599 Research Presentations (2) Current research review. Credit/no-credit only. View course details in MyPlan: MICROM 599 MICROM 600 Independent Study or Research (*-) Credit/no-credit only. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: MICROM 600 MICROM 650 Microbiology Clerkship in Scientific Teaching ([1-6]-, max. 15) The pedagogical requirement addressed by this course is direct experience in teaching undergraduate microbiology classes under the direct oversight and mentorship of regular course instructors. By the end of this course, the graduate student will have developed skills, abilities and insights as a science educator and communicator through the sustained support and guidance of the instructor of record. Prerequisite: PhD student standing. Offered: AWSp. View course details in MyPlan: MICROM 650 MICROM 700 Master's Thesis (*-) Credit/no-credit only. View course details in MyPlan: MICROM 700 MICROM 800 Doctoral Dissertation (*-) Credit/no-credit only. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: MICROM 800 Office of the University Registrar registrar@uw.edu Modified: May 30, 2022