COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW Details: Health Administration, Master's Master'sHealth Administration All Programs College of Health Professions Public Health Sciences Wichita State’s online Master of Health Administration will equip you with the knowledge, skills and qualities needed for success in leadership positions in a wide variety of health-related organizations. As a graduate, you’ll have the ability to plan, direct, manage and coordinate medical and health services in this fast-growing field. Learn how Health Administration is the right fit for you. Request Info Start Your Application Applied learning at Wichita State At Wichita State, applied learning is everything. In fact, every degree we offer has a guaranteed applied learning or research experience built right into it equipping you with the relevant skills and experience to make you workforce ready before graduation. Learn about our innovative approach Admission to the program For admission into the Master of Health Administration program, you must: Be admitted to the WSU Graduate School Meet additional College of Health Professions requirements For additional details, click the link below. Admission requirements Inside the Program Student group improves public health through Tobacco Free campus initiative Public Health Sciences students helped start and implement the Tobacco Free Campus Ambassador program to support the WSU Tobacco Free campus policy. The push to go tobacco free has been led by Public Health Sciences going back to 2005 when a group of students formed the Health, Education, Advocates for Leadership, Teamwork and Humanity (HEALTH) Student Association. Students also celebrate National Public Health Week annually by volunteering in the community and displaying health educational materials around campus. Curriculum This 42-credit-hour online program covers: Healthcare systems and management Communication and interpersonal relationship management Critical thinking, analysis and problem solving Management and leadership Professionalism and ethics The capstone requirement is a clinical placement in a health system, hospital, agency or organization near you where you take part in a clinical practicum. View the curriculum Careers A Master of Health Administration degree from Wichita State will prepare you to: Direct a health system Manage a hospital or health service organization Oversee a medical practice group Coordinate an ambulatory clinic Supervise a local, state or federal government agency Learn more about careers in this field 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©