Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu The Benjamin L. Hooks Institute for Social Change About Programs Events HAAMI ASATT Documentaries Newsroom Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact National Premiere of "Facing Down Storms: Memphis and the Making of Ida B. Wells" A Documentary Film on the Memphis Experiences of Civil Rights Activist Ida B. Wells Teaching, Studying and Promoting Civil Rights and Social Change For more than twenty years, the Hooks Institute has developed an impressive track record of educating, engaging and empowering the community. The Hooks African American Male Initiative (HAAMI) HAAMI focuses on increasing the retention and graduation rates of African American male students attending the UofM by developing each student's personal, academic and professional skills. A Seat at the Table (ASATT) “A Seat at the Table” (ASATT) is an initiative sponsored by the Benjamin L. Hook Institute for Social Change in collaboration with the Office of Multicultural Affairs with the goal of empowering students who identify as women by providing mentorship opportunities, financial literacy lessons and career readiness skills. Hooks Documentaries Our award winning documentary films educate, inspire and entertain while advancing the cause of civil rights and social justice Tent City: Stories of Civil Rights in Fayette County, Tennessee The "Tent City" website covers the series of civil rights events that took place in Fayette County, TN from 1959 into the early 1970s. Join Our Mailing List! Stay up to date on Hooks Institute news by joining our mailing list! PreviousNext Take Action Make a gift to the Hooks Institute Fayette County Civil Rights Movement Join Our E-Mail List Contact Hooks Follow Us Online InstagramFacebooktwitterYoutubeLinkedIn Home Ben Hooks Institute Our Mission: Teaching, Studying and Promoting Civil Rights and Social Change The Benjamin L. Hooks Institute for Social Change advances its mission of teaching, studying, and promoting civil rights and social change primarily through education, research, innovative campaigns, and community engagement. For more than twenty years, the Hooks Institute has developed an impressive track record of educating, engaging, and empowering the community. Hooks 2021 Policy Papers "Race in the Time of COVID-19" "Race in the time of COVID-19" assesses the impact of the pandemic on exacerbating educational, health, and employment inequalities and the loss of intergenerational wealth among African Americans who have disproportionately died because of COVID-19. For information on obtaining physical copies of the Policy Papers, contact the Hooks Institute at bhi@memphis.edu or 901.678.3974. Digital copies are available through the button below. Read "Race in thE Time of COVID-19" > Read the FY 2019-20 Hooks Annual Report! The Hooks Institute works to achieve our mission by ameliorating racial, economic, and social disparities. Using the collective scholarship and resources of the University community, the Hooks Institute strives to make a lasting impact to help uplift Memphis and the nation. Read our 2019-2020 annual report to learn about our recent accomplishments and program successes. Please contact bhi@memphis.edu or call 901.678.3974 for printed copies of the report. Support Our Work to uplift Memphis and uplift the nation. Make a gift of any amount to the Hooks Institute. Make A Gift to Hooks > Stay engaged with our efforts to promote an equal and just society! Sign Up For Our Newsletter > Uplift Memphis, Uplift the Nation We can strengthen communities by aggressively tackling inequality, especially disparities related to poverty, race, health, and the economy. Through its initiatives and partnerships with business, university, and community stakeholders, the Hooks Institute is prepared to lead the effort to make Memphis and the Mid-South, a pioneer in confronting social justice issues. The prevailing condition of people in Memphis and the Mid-South creates an urgent call for immediate action. For the Hooks Institute, that moment is now. Our Collective Efforts to Create A Stronger Community <!-- intentionally non-empty iframe; for xsl --> With an unwavering commitment to equality for all we are prepared to Uplift Memphis, Uplift the Nation. We Invite you to share our vision for a bold and daring future! Persistent and growing economic and racial inequalities demand a comprehensive and consistent collaboration among universities, businesses, government, community leaders, and others. Poverty and racism negatively impact all communities, races, and ethnic groups. We must work together to lift the burden of inequality and injustice that many among us continue to face. Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 5/3/22 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.