Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Morrissey College of Arts and Sciences Information For Search BC.edu Links Romance Languages Menu Main Nav Romance Languages and Literatures Department Romance Languages Contact Back Back Close About Overview News and Notes Contact Giving to Romance Languages and Literatures People Overview Faculty Openings Undergraduate Overview Majors and Minors Course Offerings Language Programs French Curriculum and Courses Language Requirement Major and Minor in French Other Opportunities to Learn French on Campus Study and Work Abroad FAQ and Useful Links Italian Why Study Italian? Language Requirement Curriculum and Courses Major and Minor in Italian Study Abroad FAQ Portuguese Why Learn Portuguese? Spanish Where to Start Language Requirement General Guidelines for Placement Get Ready for the Semester Coordinators Curriculum and Courses Major and Minor in Hispanic Studies Other Opportunities to Learn Spanish on Campus Study and Work Abroad FAQ Language Placement Language Requirement For Language Instructors Honors Program Undergraduate Honors Theses Current Year - 2002 Honors Theses 1986-2001 Honor Societies Study Abroad Teach Abroad Academic Integrity Graduate Overview Master of Arts Programs Course Offerings Graduate Resources Nguyen Prize for Academic Excellence Nguyen Research Travel Prize Nguyen Fund for Graduate Student Professional Formation Ecole Normale Supérieure Exchange Graduate Funding Our Students Graduate Degree Recipients Previous Degree Recipients Career Paths of Doctoral Graduates Career Paths of Masters Graduates Ph.D. Dissertations Graduate Conference Language Careers Close Contact Directory A to Z Listing Search Morrissey College Search BC.edu Find pages or people Search Close Close BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close The Department of Romance Languages and Literatures offers courses in French, Italian, and Spanish languages, as well as their corresponding literatures and cultures, at the undergraduate and graduate levels. The undergraduate majors and minors in RLL are designed to help students attain a broad interdisciplinary insight into the literature and culture of other nations, while achieving a high linguistic proficiency in one or more Romance languages. Students can major or minor in French, Hispanic Studies, or Italian and courses range from elementary language to advanced seminars in languages, literatures, and cultures. The major offers solid preparation and guidance for students interested in teaching or in graduate studies, as well as in fields such as law, medicine, interpreting, and international business (see our Language Careers page). The minors serve as a useful adjunct to a wide range of academic specializations. Exploration of cultural diversity and of diverse knowledge traditions is central to the mission of the Department of Romance Languages and Literatures. Our program is global: Spanish, French, and Italian are spoken in Europe, throughout the Americas and the Caribbean, and in many parts of Africa and Asia. Questions of migration, colonialism, post-colonialism, racism, and social justice are inextricable from the study of the Romance languages and literatures. Our curriculum offers the opportunity for rigorous engagement with perspectives expressed in Romance languages around the globe and throughout history. Faculty and students in our department come together to understand what joins and what divides us. Information for students to determine their course of language study. Language Placement Faculty Openings News and Notes All Alumni Announcements Awards Faculty In the media Presentations Research Students Our Faculty View More View Less Alumni Spotlight Kathryn Goetti ’11 Business Operations Strategist Google, Mountain View, CA, and Chicago Undergraduate major: Romance languages (French) As an undergraduate, Kathryn Goetti didn’t consider pursuing a business career after college. But today the Romance languages major is working on the business side at Google and loving the opportunities that come with the job—including a recent three-month assignment in Dublin. Goetti says her undergraduate study of other cultures prepared her to work at a large firm with an international reach. “A great theme in today’s business world is that it’s one global community,” says Goetti. “Studying a second language certainly helped me develop a multicultural world view.” Stacy Brown ’08 Resident in OB/GYN Rush University Medical Center, Chicago Undergraduate major: Hispanic studies The days when aspiring doctors took a narrow course of premed studies are past, according to Stacy Brown, a resident in obstetrics and gynecology. “The trend is toward humanities majors in medicine,” she says. Take her experience: The Hispanic studies major says her undergraduate research with a favorite Spanish professor helped develop skills—organization, focus, communication, attention to detail—that are crucial to her work as a doctor. A summer stint doing preventive health in her native New Mexico, supported by a grant from BC, convinced her she was heading in the right direction. “It showed me how well being a Hispanic studies major goes with medicine,” she says. “It really flowed together.” Back To Top Back To Top Romance Languages and Literatures Department Lyons Hall 304 617-552-3820 rll@bc.edu Morrissey College of Arts and Sciences Gasson Hall 140 Commonwealth Avenue Chestnut Hill, MA 02467 About Undergraduate Graduate Faculty & Research Departments Contact Departments Art, Art History, and Film Biology Chemistry Classical Studies Communication Computer Science Earth and Environmental Sciences Economics Engineering English German Studies History Mathematics Music Philosophy Physics Political Science Psychology Romance Languages and Literatures Slavic & Eastern Languages and Literatures Sociology Theatre Theology Giving to the Department Apply Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College