SMU Cox Display Navigation and Site Search SMU Cox School of Business SMU Cox Utility Navigation Students Companies Alumni Apply Contact Us smu.edu Display Navigation Display Search Search SMU SMU Cox Main Navigation At SMU Cox Display At SMU Cox Sub Menu An exceptional school in the heart of a vibrant, global, business-friendly city. Collins Center Cox News Cox Events Graduate Outcomes CoxToday Magazine Academic Departments Career Growth Global Programs Degrees & Programs Display At SMU Cox Sub Menu Rigorous programs within a truly customized academic experience. Master of Science MS in Accounting MS in Business Analytics MS in Finance MS in Management MS Health Promotion Management MS in Sport Management MBA Full-Time Two-Year MBA Full-Time One-Year MBA MBA Direct Professional MBA Online MBA Executive MBA Joint Degrees JD/MBA MA / MBA MS Engineering / MBA Undergraduate Bachelor of Business Administration Non-Degree Executive Education Summer Business Institute Diversity & Inclusion Display At SMU Cox Sub Menu Shaping Leaders for a Changing World. Diversity at Cox Latino Leadership Initiative I Am Latino in America Subiendo Academy at SMU Cox School Dean’s Message Executive Education Display At SMU Cox Sub Menu Meet your career challenges head-on by mining the expertise of the nation's top business leaders. Programs for Individuals Custom Solutions Latino Leadership Initiative HR Roundtable Graduate Certificates Collins Center Learning Culture Display At SMU Cox Sub Menu An innovative learning culture influences the way the world does business. Centers and Institutes Academic Departments Research Business Library NextGen Cox Curriculum People & Community Display At SMU Cox Sub Menu A community where professors know students by name and help them create powerful networks. Students Alumni Faculty Companies Cox Executive Board Cox100 Press Releases Display Search Utility Navigation Students Companies Alumni Apply Contact Us smu.edu Master of Science in Sport Management Master of Science in Sport Management Jump To A Section Program Faculty Curriculum Experiential Learning Admissions FAQs Program You have a passion for the sports business and your long-term goal is to hold a senior-management position in the multibillion dollar industry — the SMU Master of Science in Sport Management degree is for you. Combining the strength of SMU’s Simmons School of Education & Human Development with the expertise of the Cox School of Business, it's a 12-month, full-time program led by sport management professionals who have decades of executive experience. You’ll untangle real-life ethical challenges, tackle consulting projects and debrief sports executive from teams like the Texas Rangers, the Dallas Mavericks and other globally known entities based right here in Dallas, the nation’s fifth-largest sports market with major league teams and blue-chip corporate sponsors. Faculty At SMU, your Sport Management faculty members are experts across industry segments: professional leagues and teams, media, marketing and sponsorship, facilities, sports equipment and apparel. The Cox faculty drives the program's rigorous and leading-edge business skills. You'll learn from teachers like Bill Glenn — an expert practitioner in strategy, execution and analytics for sports brands — and from a Division 1 athletic director, a former Major League Baseball executive and a seasoned contract negotiator, among others. Curriculum The MS in Sport Management's four curricular modules balance and enhance courses from the Simmons School with essential Cox School courses in finance, management, strategy and marketing. The combination makes a perfect launchpad to this highly competitive industry. Experiential Learning You'll learn hands-on through mentorships and internships with some of the most prominent sports leaders and organizations in the U.S., and also through field trips, case studies and consulting projects. Symposiums offer opportunities for networking, and you'll have access to major professional sports teams. Admissions While you must meet the high standards required of both SMU Cox applicants and the Simmons School, your application will be handled by the admissions team at the SMU Simmons School. For more information, visit the Simmons School web site for Master in Sport Management (MSSM). FAQs Click here to find answers to frequently asked questions Next Steps Questions? Not sure which program fits your needs? Reach out to our team. Contact Us Get the Brochure SMU Cox Footer Utility Nav Give Contact Us Apply © Cox School of Business Southern Methodist University PO Box 750333 Dallas, Texas 75275-0333 214-768-2000 SMU Cox Legal Home SMU Cox on Social Media Facebook Instagram Twitter