Skip to main content Baylor Business - Hankamer School of Business Baylor University About HSB Student Resources Giving Contact Undergraduate #BU26 Graduate MBA Programs Army-Baylor Programs Master of Business Analytics Master of Information Systems Master of Economics Master of Accountancy Master of Taxation Doctorate in Entrepreneurship Doctorate in Health Services Research Doctorate in Information Systems Areas of Study Accounting & Business Law Baylor Business Fellows Economics Entrepreneurship & Corporate Innovation Finance, Insurance & Real Estate Information Systems & Business Analytics Marketing Management Centers & Institutes Entrepreneurship Family Business Financial Markets Health Policy & Leadership International Business Nonprofit Leadership Professional Selling Real Estate Sales & Marketing Sports Strategy and Sales Technology Center Ethics Baylor Business Review Podcast Visit Hankamer About HSB Career Center Alumni About HSB Student Resources Giving Undergraduate Graduate Areas of Study Centers & Institutes Ethics HSB Baylor Business Identity Baylor Business HSB > About HSB > Baylor Business Identity The Baylor Business Logo The Baylor Business logo was developed in 2003 to represent the brand characteristics of the Hankamer School of Business. The three sections of the emblem denote the three key dimensions of the educational experience at the Hankamer School of Business: Rigorous classroom learning Hands-on, real-world experience A foundation of ethical values The round formation denotes global perspective. Guidelines The Business School logo will be used for all organizations within the Hankamer School of Business. Use the Business School’s logo in conjunction with Baylor University’s institutional mark. There are two acceptable versions of the logo. One is horizontal. The other is stacked. The combination of the emblem (the three-part circle) and the wordmark (the type treatment of “BaylorBusiness”) comprise the logo. Do not try to re-create the logo to change the relationship of the wordmark and emblem. Always use the art file. Never distort the proportions of the logo. Stationery and business cards are ordered through Baylor’s Printing Procurement Office. When ordering, indicate that the Baylor Business logo should also be used (it will be used in conjunction with Baylor University’s institutional mark). For any other usage, or to request digital files, please contact the Communications & Marketing Department at the Hankamer School of Business, x3495. Search Site Map Stay Connected Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkedIn Podcast YouTube RSS Feed Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkedIn Podcast YouTube RSS Feed Baylor Business Links About HSB Advisory Board Baylor Business Brand Events Maps & Directions News Find Us Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkedIn YouTube Podcast RSS Feed Resources and Tools Canvas Digital Measures Directory Faculty/Staff Resources HSB Policies Student Resources Copyright © Baylor® University. All rights reserved. Legal Disclosures. Baylor University Waco, Texas 76798 1-800-BAYLOR-U