Skip to main content Skip to main content DIVISION of ENROLLMENT SERVICES Skip to main content &nbsp;<b>Student Quicklinks</b> Student Quicklinks &nbsp;<b>Faculty/Staff Quicklinks</b> Faculty/Staff Quicklinks Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. Navigate Search Skip to main content Registrar Academic Advising Academic Ceremonies Academic Ceremonies Fall Rotunda Passage May Commencement Opening Convocation December Rotunda Recessional December Commencement Spring Rotunda Passage Honors Convocation May Baccalaureate Service May Rotunda Recessional May Commencement Degree Honors Degree Honors Inserts Graduation & Diploma Services About Us Academic Records Academic Records Degree Honors Enrollment Rules Honor Roll Progress Grades Viewing Your Grades GPA Calculator Graduation Honors Inserts Transcript Requests Transfer Credit Legal Process Enrollment Information Enrollment Information Fall Enrollment Information Spring Enrollment Information Summer Enrollment Information Master of Science in Data Science Program Waitlist Guidelines Common Curriculum Online Course Evaluation Course Listings Help Enrollment Policy Exception Frequently Asked Questions Final Exam Schedule The General Education Curriculum Grade Posting Schedule University Curriculum View Textbooks Online Contact Us Contact Us Virtual Office Information SMU Links SMU Links Site Index About SMU Access and Equity Administration Bursar Calendars Campus Directory Clery Report Enrollment Services Financial Aid Giving Libraries Maps Meadows Museum Information Technology Registrar Search Student Affairs Webmail ☰ Registrar Academic Records Progress Grades Progress Grades (Early and Mid-Term Grading) Progress grades are collected to support student academic performance, success and retention. Progress grades are used for advising purposes, but are not recorded on the permanent academic record. Early Term Progress Grades Beginning fall 2021, early term progress grading includes all undergraduate students enrolled on the SMU main campus. The early term progress grades are collected in September for the fall term and February for the spring term. Instructors can enter deficient grades C-, D+, D-, F, FA (failing due to poor attendance), or FT (failing due to poor testing), or indicate that the student does not currently have a deficient grade. You can see your progress grade report in my.SMU.edu. From the Student Homepage, click on the Academic Records tile. Select "Early Grade Report". Then click on the GO arrows icon next to the drop-down box to view the report. Pop-ups must be enabled to view the report. Early term progress grades are also available for people that you grant access to your academic records. If there is a deficient grade reported, the people who have been granted academic records access will be copied on an email directing them to my.SMU to view the Early Grade Report. Early term grades are not recorded on your permanent academic record. Mid Term Progress Grades Since spring 2020, mid-term progress grading includes all undergraduate students enrolled on the SMU main campus. The mid-term progress grades are collected in October for the fall term and March for the spring term. Instructors can enter deficient grades C-, D+, D-, F, FA (failing due to poor attendance), or FT (failing due to poor testing), or indicate that the student does not currently have a deficient grade. You can see your progress grade report in my.SMU.edu. From the Student Homepage, click on the Academic Records tile. Select "Midterm Grade Report". Then click on the GO arrows icon next to the drop-down box to view the report. Pop-ups must be enabled to view the report. Mid-term progress grades are also available to people that you grant access to your academic records. If there is a deficient grade reported, the people who have been granted academic records access will be copied on an email directing them to my.SMU to view the grade report. Mid-term grades are not recorded on your permanent academic record. Academic Records Degree Honors Enrollment Rules SMU Honor Roll Progress Grades Viewing Your Grades GPA Calculator Graduation Honors Inserts Transcript Requests Transfer Credit Legal Process Student Quicklinks my.SMU Request Transcript Course Catalog Final Exam Schedule University Curriculum Student Records Forms Preferred Name Honor Roll Important Messages to Students Student Appeals and Petitions Student Rights and Responsibilities Syllabus Library Transfer Credit/Equivalency Webpay Master of Science in Data Science Program Faculty/Staff Quicklinks my.SMU Enrollment Reporting Final Exam Schedule Forms Library: SR Forms (Public) Forms Library: SR Forms (Restricted) Important Messages to Faculty Policies and Procedures [Login] SR Policies & Procedures View all DES P&P Procedures- New Course/Prog Room Scheduling Syllabus Library Enrollment and Scheduling - Advanced Users Student Services Quicklinks× Faculty/Staff Quicklinks× Contact Us Maps and Directions Legal Disclosures © Southern Methodist University, PO Box 750100, Dallas, TX 75275 twitter facebook instagram linkedin youtube share