Skip to main content Search Site or Temple University Search this site Search all of Temple Search Keywords Search Home About the Portfolio Meet the COO Meet the Team Strategic Priorities RCM at Temple Assessment of the Model Defining RCM at Temple Guiding Principles Making the RCM Model Work Allocated Costs Income Flow and Assessments Learning and Development Annual Review Process Internal Charges: Principles and Process Tuition Revenue University's Cost and Services Committee Administration and Planning Budget and Finance on TUportal Budget & Fiscal Planning Business Services Catering Exception Policy Double Tree Catering/Conferences FedEx Trademark Licensing Policy Trademark and Licensing FAQ Where to Buy Temple Gear Frequently Asked Questions Buying and Paying AP Invoice Processing Purchasing Purchasing Services Staff Claims and Insurance Diamond Dollars Diamond Dollars Locations Frequently Asked Questions Managing Your Account Diamond Dollars: The Fine Print General Accounting Audited Financial Statements OWLcard Access and Identification OWLcard Mobile OWLcard Mobile for Android OWLcard Mobile for iPhone and Watch OWLcard Mobile Checklist Frequently Asked Questions Passport Photos Report a Lost or Stolen OWLCard OWLcard: The Fine Print Travel Resources International Travel Traveling During COVID-19 Pre-Travel Considerations Traveling During COVID-19 FAQ Advisories & Alerts International SOS International Travel Policy FAQs Planning to Travel Abroad International Group Travel Planning Resources International Programmatic Type Standards for International Group Travel Preparing to Travel Abroad Individual Travelers Information for Group Leaders Information on Temple Sponsored Programming Emergencies Abroad Medical Emergencies Safety Emergencies Victim of Crime Abroad Replacing lost or stolen documents Filing police reports abroad Arrest and Detention Abroad Emergency Contact & Parental Notification Workshops and Trainings Treasury and Banking Vendor Information Become an OWLcard Vendor Certificate of Insurance Requirements W - 9 Information Search Site or Temple University Search this site Search all of Temple Search Keywords Search Temple University Schools and Colleges Art & Architecture Business & Management Dentistry Education & Human Development Engineering Environmental Design Law Liberal Arts Media & Communication Medicine Music & Dance Pharmacy Podiatric Medicine Public Health Science & Technology Social Work Theater, Film & Media Arts Sport, Tourism & Hospitality Management Temple.edu Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Housing Financial Aid Campus Life Giving Explore Temple University Gateway to Finance Menu Travel Resources You are here Home Travel Resources More In This Section Home About the Portfolio RCM at Temple Budget & Fiscal Planning Business Services Buying and Paying Claims and Insurance Diamond Dollars General Accounting OWLcard Access and Identification Travel Resources Treasury and Banking Vendor Information Home About the Portfolio Meet the COO Meet the Team Strategic Priorities RCM at Temple Assessment of the Model Defining RCM at Temple Guiding Principles Making the RCM Model Work Allocated Costs Income Flow and Assessments Learning and Development Annual Review Process Internal Charges: Principles and Process Tuition Revenue University's Cost and Services Committee Administration and Planning Budget and Finance on TUportal Budget & Fiscal Planning Business Services Catering Exception Policy Double Tree Catering/Conferences FedEx Trademark Licensing Policy Trademark and Licensing FAQ Where to Buy Temple Gear Frequently Asked Questions Buying and Paying AP Invoice Processing Purchasing Purchasing Services Staff Claims and Insurance Diamond Dollars Diamond Dollars Locations Frequently Asked Questions Managing Your Account Diamond Dollars: The Fine Print General Accounting Audited Financial Statements OWLcard Access and Identification OWLcard Mobile OWLcard Mobile for Android OWLcard Mobile for iPhone and Watch OWLcard Mobile Checklist Frequently Asked Questions Passport Photos Report a Lost or Stolen OWLCard OWLcard: The Fine Print Travel Resources International Travel Traveling During COVID-19 Pre-Travel Considerations Traveling During COVID-19 FAQ Advisories & Alerts International SOS International Travel Policy FAQs Planning to Travel Abroad International Group Travel Planning Resources International Programmatic Type Standards for International Group Travel Preparing to Travel Abroad Individual Travelers Information for Group Leaders Information on Temple Sponsored Programming Emergencies Abroad Medical Emergencies Safety Emergencies Victim of Crime Abroad Replacing lost or stolen documents Filing police reports abroad Arrest and Detention Abroad Emergency Contact & Parental Notification Workshops and Trainings Treasury and Banking Vendor Information Become an OWLcard Vendor Certificate of Insurance Requirements W - 9 Information Temple University recognizes the travel restrictions, changes and disruptions caused by COVID-19, which may affect our Temple community. A complete resource on how the university is responding to Covid-19 is located under the COVID-19 tab on TUportal and on Temple’s Planning a Safe Return site. As the impact relates to travel, we have implemented an Interim COVID-19 International and Domestic Travel Protocol. Domestic and international travel forms are available in TU Portal. More information on international travel can be found on our Travel Advisories and Alerts page. FAQ: Travel During Covid-19 Does the university need to be notified about personal travel plans? For your own safety, you should stay up to date on the travel guidelines of reputable international and federal agencies and current federal quarantines. See the CDC’s latest travel notices and the U.S. Department of State’s travel advisories. The World Health Organization also has information and advice about traveling during the COVID-19 epidemic on its website. Temple University Japan faculty and staff have a different requirement. See the TUJ FAQ. Is it safe to travel outside the United States, or are there restrictions? Temple University has suspended all non-essential international business travel for the fall 2020, spring 2021, and summer 2021 semesters. If faculty/staff feel that their trip cannot be rescheduled and is necessary as part of their position or career/educational advancement, they can submit a COVID-19 Travel Exception Form. More details regarding COVID international and domestic travel guidance can be found in the COVID Travel Protocol on TU Portal. All student international travel has also been suspended for the fall, spring, and summer semesters. Students who feel that their trip cannot be rescheduled and is necessary as part of their degree should refer to the International Travel Policy for information regarding the petition process. Advisories and alerts related to international travel can be found on the Gateway to Finance website. What are the next steps to ensure health and safety following recent international travel? As the situation continues to evolve globally, we recommend reviewing the CDC’s guidelines regarding how to stay safe and healthy when traveling internationally. Most importantly, if you develop a fever, cough or have difficulty breathing, you should immediately contact health care professionals—your family physician, local health authorities, or Student or Employee Health. You should call before visiting any health care provider so that appropriate precautions can be taken. We also recommend staying up-to-date on the CDC’s travel notices and on the U.S. Department of State’s travel advisories if you have plans to travel. Is it safe to travel within the United States, or are there restrictions? With the start of summer 2021, the university will allow for pre-approved domestic travel to resume. As additional documentation is required before booking travel, please see Temple’s COVID-19 tab in TU Portal for the most up-to-date interim COVID-19 Travel Guidance. All student domestic travel has also been suspended for the fall, spring and summer semesters. Students who feel that their trip cannot be rescheduled and is necessary as part of their degree can submit a petition to the Provost’s office. . Plan Your Trip Temple University partners with travel agencies and local hotels to provide visitors, faculty, and staff the best of Philly when planning a visit or making arrangements for guests. If you are a student planning international travel, please continue to the related sections on International Travel. Booking a point-to-point trip using Concur via the TUportal is simple and easy. However, when the trip includes international travel, multiple cities and group travel consider contacting the World Travel agency directly for assistance at 800-474-4740. Travel Agencies Temple University is partnered with World Travel to accommodate your travel arrangements and may be contacted by phone 1-800-874-6700 or email (templetravel@worldtravelinc.com) Hotels Students and families visiting Temple may take advantage of discounted rates with hotels located in Philadelphia. Faculty and Staff: For a complete listing of university approved hotels and car rentals, please visit the Business Services channel on the Business and Finance tab within TUportal. Passport Photos Passport photos are available at the OWLcard office Temple University Visitor Hotels Temple University Partner Hotels Temple University Visitor Hotels Explore local accommodations near Temple University Budget and Finance in TUportal Financial Resources in the Portal Additional employee financial resources are located on the Budget and Finance tab in TUportal Budget and Finance in TUportal Access Our Portal Search Site or Temple University Search this site Search all of Temple Search Keywords Search Temple University Gateway to Finance Sullivan Hall | Garden Level 1330 Polett WalkPhiladelphia, PA 19122 USA Public Information Careers at Temple Policies and Procedures Institutional Reporting Municipal Advisor Disclosure Statement Internal Audits Visit Temple.edu Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Policies Social Media TUportal TUMail Accessibility Careers at Temple Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved.