COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW Virtual Events Section Menu Undergraduate Admissions Apply Now Majors Tuition and Fees Visit Campus FAQ Admission Requirements Housing Scholarships Financial Aid Request Information Contact Admissions Unable to make it to a virtual event and don't want to miss out? Check out our recordings of past events! Recorded Events Click a button to view event recordings in that category. Academics Scholarships Student Life Career Development Parents En Español Discover WSU Admitted Students Academics Wichita State Activate: Tips and Tricks to Complete Your Next Steps This event walks through several steps incoming freshman need to complete to move towards enrollment. How I Met My Major Unsure about what to major in? Attend this interactive virtual event hosted by the Shocker Career Accelerator and the Office of Admissions to learn about majors that might be a good fit for you. Dorothy and Bill Cohen Honors College Cohen Honors College Open House Tour the facilities, explore the benefits of the Honors College and hear from Honors students. Cohen Honors College: Exploring Classes with Faculty Join us for an inside look at Cohen Honors College classes with current staff and faculty. College of Fine Arts Media Arts Webinar College of Fine Arts Info Session Aspiring actors, musicians, visual artists, designers, dancers, filmmakers, animators, and scholars: join the dean, faculty and staff of the College of Fine Arts for highlights about the college. School of Digital Arts Info Session The School of Digital Arts is home to our media arts students including animation, audio production, collaborative design, filmmaking, and game design. Dive into these programs with College of Fine Arts faculty and staff. School of Music Info Session Join Jesse Koza, coordinator of music outreach, and Dr. Alexander Sternfeld-Dunn, director of the School of Music, as they answer questions about the School of Music from current and prospective students. School of Music Info Session: Music Education Learn about the Music Education major with the Director of the School of Music and faculty members. School of Art, Design and Creative Industries Info Session Learn about the ADCI programs including studio art, graphic design, art history, and art education with the College of Fine Arts’ Dean, staff and faculty. School of Performing Arts Info Session Join College of Fine Arts Dean, Rodney Miller, and School of Performing Arts Director, Linda Starkey, to learn about the bachelor’s degree in performing arts with emphasis areas in dance, musical theatre, theatre, stage management and more. College of Applied Studies HPSeries: Discover Human Performance Studies at Wichita State Considering a degree in athletic training, exercise science, or physical education? Check out this virtual event to learn more about these programs at Wichita State. Maximize Your Success in Sport Management Do you have a passion for sports? Would you like to know more about the sport industry and how you can develop your passion into a career that you love? High school students and transfer students are invited to attend this virtual event to learn more about sport management at Wichita State. College of Applied Studies Info Session Learn from College of Applied Studies faculty members about academic majors and scholarships in the School of Education, Sport Management, Exercise Science, Workforce Leadership and Applied Learning, Honors and eSports. College of Health Professions Pursuing Pre-Med Webinar CHP Info Sessions Browse a listing of all virtual information sessions offered by the College of Health Professions, including student panels, recurring series and program-specific sessions. School of Nursing Info Session Learn more about nursing program options, admission requirements and career opportunities. Pre-Dental Hygiene Info Session Join three academic advisors from the department of dental hygiene for success and prep tips for the professional dental hygiene program. Medical Laboratory Sciences Info Session During this virtual event you will learn about a career as a medical laboratory scientist, about WSU’s MLS program and the application process. College of Engineering Engineering Technology Webinar College of Engineering Open House Tour the facilities, learn about engineering majors and hear from current students. W. Frank Barton School of Business School of Business Info Session Learn more about the W. Frank Barton School of Business from faculty, staff and current students. School of Business Info Session: International Business and Marketing Learn more about the International Business and Marketing academic programs from the School of Business faculty, staff and current students. School of Business Info Session: Economics and Entrepreneurship Learn more about the Economics and Entrepreneurship academic programs from the School of Business faculty, staff and current students. School of Business Info Session: Management and Human Resources Learn more about the Management and Human Resources academic programs with the School of Business faculty, staff and current students. Barton School of Business Student Panel Hear from three current students about their experiences in the Barton School of Business. Homeschool Students Homeschool student webinar Back to categories Scholarships Scholarship Universe Informational Program for Fall 2022 incoming freshmen Scholarship Information Program for Fall 2022 incoming freshmen Learn about admissions requirements, scholarship requirements and more! We will discuss merit scholarships, scholarship competitions and outside scholarships. Rudd Foundation Scholarship Program Back to categories Student Life On-Campus Housing Info Session Learn about on-campus housing, the room selection process and hear from Housing and Residence Life staff. Student Ambassador Society – How to Build my Community in College Hear from SAS members about tips and tricks for building community in college, such as getting involved in a student organization, making friends in the residence halls and more! Student Ambassador Society – Surviving Quarantine as a College Student Hear from these four current Shockers as they share their experiences of college under quarantine. Student Ambassador Society – Best Spots on Campus Join current students as they share the best sots on campus and those hidden gems in the city of Wichita. Explore Campus Recreation Learn about what Campus Recreation has to offer including gymnasium spaces, activity spaces, intramural sports, student staff opportunities and more! Athletic Bands The Director of the School of Music, Aleksander Sternfeld-Dunn, and Visiting Director of Athletic Bands, Lucas Hulett, discuss the athletic bands at Wichita State which include Shocker Sound Basketball Band, Sound Machine, Concert Band and Wind Ensemble. Passage 2 Success Chat P2S is a four-day retreat for incoming freshmen from diverse backgrounds to help in their transition to Wichita State University. Chat with Passage Leaders to learn the benefits of P2S. Back to categories Career Development Shocker Career Chat: NASA Alex Kanelakos, WSU graduate and NASA's Chief Engineer for Spacewalk Operations, shares about his work for NASA and his time at WSU. Shocker Career Chat: On-Campus Jobs and Internships Wichita State's Career Development Center shares helpful tips on how to build a collegiate resume you can use to land an on-campus job or internship. Shocker Career Chat: Job Search and Networking Career Development Center professionals discuss two unique applications, Handshake and LinkedIn Learning, and how they prepare you for success. Shocker Career Chat: Working in Professional Sports Listen to four Wichita State graduates discuss their experiences working in professional sports, and how Wichita State's academic programs, including Sport Management, Exercise Science and Athletic Training set them up for success. Back to categories Parents Parent Information Workshop: Financial Aid and Housing Parent Information Workshop: One Stop and First-Year Experience Parent Information Workshop: Health and Safety Back to categories En Español Sesión Informativa en Español Ùnete a nosotros para una presentaciòn, y un panel de estudiantes. Back to categories Discover Wichita State Discover Wichita State: Oklahoma Discover Wichita State: Kansas Back to categories Admitted Student Events Admitted Student Event - Kansas Admitted Student Event - Missouri Admitted Student Event - Northeastern Kansas Admitted Student Event - Oklahoma Admitted Student Event - Out of State Admitted Student Event - Texas Admitted Student Event - Wichita Back to categories Upcoming events RSVP today 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©