By continuing to use this site, you agree to the use of cookies in accordance with our privacy policy. Dismiss Stay Safe The official source of public health information for Syracuse University. Skip to Content Open menu About Admissions Academics Life Athletics More Search the University Open search Popular searches Close menu Home About Toggle dropdown Leadership Vision & Mission Consumer Information Facts & Figures Plan Your Visit Campus Map History News Partnerships Work at Syracuse Social Media Bookstore Brand Help & Contacts Admissions Toggle dropdown Undergraduate Graduate Online Part-Time Cost & Aid Request Information Visit & Tour Apply Academics Toggle dropdown Schools & Colleges Undergraduate Majors & Minors Graduate Degrees Online Programs Syracuse University Global Study Abroad Opportunities & Support Calendars Departments Research Centers & Institutes Libraries, Collections & Galleries Academic Administration Life Toggle dropdown Accessibility & Diversity Campus Highlights Events Calendar Services & Support Meals & Dining Housing Groups & Activities Recreation & Facilities For Students For Veterans & Military For Faculty & Staff For Parents & Families A-Z Index Sitemap Login Athletics Men’s Sports Toggle dropdown Basketball Cross Country Football Lacrosse Rowing Soccer Track and Field Women’s Sports Toggle dropdown Basketball Cross Country Field Hockey Ice Hockey Lacrosse Rowing Soccer Softball Tennis Track and Field Volleyball Athletics Dept. Toggle dropdown Facilities Staff Directory Academic Honors Community Service Spirit Program Varsity Club Sports Medicine Championships Fan Zone Toggle dropdown Dome Schedule Seating Information Orange All Access Otto’s Kids Club Game Photos Promotions Orange Club Schedules News Alumni About Toggle dropdown Notable Alumni Alumni Association Awards News Events and Clubs Toggle dropdown Orange Central Northeast Midwest South West World/Affinity Regions Toggle dropdown Atlanta Boston Chicago Los Angeles Middle East New York San Francisco Washington, DC Services Toggle dropdown Career Network Generation Orange Directory Profile Class Notes Giving Contact Contact Visit Apply Coronavirus Updates Forever Orange Home Stay Safe Support Resources for Students in Quarantine or Isolation More from this Section Get Tested Disability Access and Inclusion Resources Stay Safe Pledge Frequently Asked Questions Faculty and Staff Public Health Guidance Resources Updates Support Resources for Students in Quarantine or Isolation For students who must enter quarantine or isolation, the University has a team of people here to assist throughout this experience. Below is a general summary of the quarantine or isolation experience. Please note that guidance or services may change and students should refer to the comprehensive resource guide provided at the time of assignment by the Barnes Center for the latest information. Students are encouraged to share copies of the resource guide with their parent(s) or supportive family member(s). Quarantine and Isolation Manager Each student will have outreach from a Quarantine and Isolation (QI) manager —a Syracuse University Staff member—who will provide additional support and serve as the main point of contact for all non-medical and non-emergency related issues. QI managers are available afterhours and on weekends for the duration of quarantine or isolation. They reach out to students within 24 hours of being assigned to quarantine or isolation. Additional Contacts Barnes Center at The Arch (medical and mental health care) Monday–Friday, 8:00 a.m.– 4:30 p.m. (24-hour support is always available for a mental health crisis, sexual assault or relationship violence support, or medical consultation with an on-call provider.) Phone: 315.443.8000 Student Outreach and Retention (academic coordination and student support) Monday–Friday, 8:00 a.m.-4:30 p.m. Phone: 315.443.4357 E-mail: soar@syr.edu Department of Public Safety (DPS) In emergencies, please call 911 or DPS at 315.443.2224 Engagement and Activities There may be virtual programs and events happening! Stay connected and visit the University Events Calendar, Cuse Activities portal and Wellness Portal for all the virtual offerings. Academics Professors will be notified that the student will not attend any in-person classes. Students are also encouraged to communicate directly with professors about alternative options for in-person participation. Students may also contact Dean of Students Office to work with a case manager to determine the best pathway to meet your academic needs. General Quarantine and Isolation Procedures and Protocols In alignment with the Stay Safe Pledge and Code of Student Conduct, students must adhere to all quarantine and isolation protocols. Students who fail to comply may be referred to the Office of Community Standards. Protocols include: Stay in the designated quarantine or isolation location as directed by the Barnes Center. Those who need to see a healthcare provider can call the Barnes Center at The Arch at 315.443.8000 to make an appointment and ask for medical transportation. Wear a well-fitted face mask if leaving their room or picking up contactless deliveries. No outside visitors are allowed during the quarantine or isolation Stay at least six feet away from others at all times. Wash your hands often, for at least 20 seconds each time, with soap and water. If unavailable, use a hand sanitizer containing 60-95% alcohol on all surfaces of your hands. For those students in isolation, on day 5, you will be contacted by the Barnes Center to discuss your symptoms. If approved to exit isolation prior to day 10, wear a well-fitted mask while around others through day 10. You may return to class but should limit gatherings and extra-curricular activities. For those students in quarantine, you may still attend class during your quarantine period wearing a well-fitted face mask. The day prior to your release, you will be contacted by a Barnes Center staff and provided guidance on ending your quarantine. Students will be directed to monitor symptoms and wear a well-fitted face mask at all times for an additional 5 days. Students should limit extra-curricular activities and attending gatherings for an additional 5 days. All students in isolation and quarantine should fill out Onondaga County Self Attestation forms to keep for their records. Additional information regarding laundry services, garbage, facilities, food services, activities or package drop-off and delivery services are provided in the location-specific guidance or through a QI manager. Health, Wellness and Pharmacy Information If at any point during your isolation or quarantine period, symptoms develop, worsen, or you need medical care, the Barnes Center is available at 315.443.8000. The Barnes Center is available 24/7 at 315.443.8000 to assist any student with mental health emergencies, sexual and relationship violence support, and medical consultation with an on-call medical provider. The Barnes Center Pharmacy delivers prescriptions and pharmacy retail items to students in quarantine and isolation. To fill/refill a prescription, contact the Pharmacy at 315.443.5691 or pharmacy@syr.edu, or visit the Patient Portal to request a refill. To order pharmacy retail items, contact the Pharmacy or place your order online by visiting the virtual pharmacy in the Wellness Portal. Students need to provide a contact number and select a pickup method. However, a Pharmacy staff member will contact them to review the order. At that time, students should inform the staff member they are in isolation or quarantine. Orders will be delivered at the designated isolation/quarantine location and charges are applied to the Bursar account. If an item is not available online, contact the Pharmacy to place the order or if ordering with other items, students can add an item when a Pharmacy staff member contacts them to review the order. Deliveries are made once in the morning and once in the afternoon, Monday-Friday. Visit the Frequently Asked Questions page for additional information about COVID-19. Popular Toggle dropdown Academic Calendar Campus Map Careers Libraries Majors and Minors Visit and Tour A-Z Toggle dropdown Academic Departments Schools and Colleges Sitemap Search Contact Toggle dropdown Admissions Financial Aid Emergency Contacts Human Resources Make a Gift Login Toggle dropdown MySlice Blackboard SUMail Syracuse University 900 South Crouse Ave. Syracuse, NY 13244 Phone: +1.315.443.1870 Follow S.U. on Instagram Like S.U. on Facebook Follow S.U. on Twitter Follow S.U. on LinkedIn Follow S.U. on Tiktok Subscribe to S.U. on YouTube © Syracuse University. Knowledge crowns those who seek her. Accessibility Accreditation Emergencies Privacy