Skip to main content Temple University Explore Temple’s Schools and Colleges Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Support Temple Temple University Search Site Search Full Menu Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees President History & Traditions Temple Health News & Media Offices Public Information Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Development Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Libraries Religion MA You are here Home Academics Degrees and Programs Religion MA Apply Request More Info Religion MA Admissions Careers, Internships & Opportunities Required Courses Research & Facilities Scholarships & Financial Aid Master of Arts in Religion Study the traditions and belief systems of the world’s major religions with the Master of Arts in Religion in the College of Liberal Arts at Temple University. Examine religions and cultures through several individual methods of study, including history, philosophy and the social sciences. Consider how religion intersects with race, ethnicity, gender, sexuality and disability. For students who intend to teach religious studies in community colleges or high schools, the Religion MA provides advanced training in methods of research and in-depth study of the world's major religious traditions. This master's program offers postgraduate training and exposure to the newest research methods and developments that can aid in the understanding of religious and cultural traditions. Courses draw from the following themes, each of which is rooted in the expertise of the Religion Department's faculty. Critical investigation of religion and human differences Historical texts and traditions Religion and society Become immersed in the basic thought, history and practices of a religious tradition by choosing an academic concentration, including one of the following. African diaspora African American religious traditions Biblical studies Buddhism Gender and religion Islamic studies Jewish studies Religion and social science Graduates of the Master of Arts in Religion are prepared to pursue doctoral studies in religion or enter the workforce in many professional fields, such as business, government, journalism, medicine and social work. Religion Department Founded in 1961, Temple’s Department of Religion was one of the earliest religion departments established at a public or state-related university. The goal of the department and its programs is to provide students with a broad understanding of a wide variety of religious traditions and an awareness of how religion functions in communities around the world. The department has strong relationships and affiliations with outside secular and religious institutions, including the Eastern Baptist Theological Seminary, Lutheran Theological Seminary, Reconstructionist Rabbinical College in Philadelphia and University of Pennsylvania Department of Religious Studies. Our Community The College of Liberal Arts at Temple comprises many disciplines and research areas. Now more than ever, an interdisciplinary liberal arts education is invaluable for your future pursuits. It offers the opportunity to further push your drive to create real change in the world, here at Temple and beyond. In this graduate program, you’ll work closely with diverse faculty members who are highly esteemed in their field and with a curious, passionate community of peers. Program Format & Curriculum Students have three years to satisfy their requirements for the Religion MA program, which can be completed on a full-time or part-time basis. Classes take place on Temple’s Main Campus. The 30-credit Religion MA curriculum comprises core courses, advanced seminars, elective courses, a language examination and a culminating event. Courses available to graduate students include the following. Issues in Theology Monks, Masters and Magicians: Religion in Pre-Modern Chinese Literature Religion and the Arts Violence in Ancient Religion: Pagan, Christian, and Jewish Zombie Apocalypse Learn more about Religion MA program requirements. Related Graduate Degrees Religion PhD Tuition & Fees In keeping with Temple’s commitment to access and affordability, this Master of Arts offers a competitive level of tuition with multiple opportunities for financial support. Tuition rates are set annually by the university and are affected by multiple factors, including program degree level (undergraduate or graduate), course load (full- or part-time), in-state or out-of-state residency, and more. These tuition costs apply to the 2021–2022 academic year. Pennsylvania resident: $966.00 per credit Out-of-state: $1,329.00 per credit Learn more about our tuition and fees. Program Contact Contact the below staff member with questions regarding the Religion program, including admissions, requirements and financial aid. Linda Wyatt is the coordinator in the Religion Department. Phone: 215-204-3663 Email: ldwyatt@temple.edu The following staff members lead the Religion Department. Terry Rey is the chair of the Religion Department. Phone: 215-204-8755 Email: trey@temple.edu Douglas Duckworth is the graduate chair in the Religion Department. Phone: 215-204-3663 Email: duckworth@temple.edu TJ Cusack is the administrator in the Religion Department. Phone: 215-204-9209 Email: tjc@temple.edu Student Clubs & Organizations Supplement your Religion MA coursework and enhance your graduate education experience through student clubs and organizations. You’ll meet and network with other students, become involved with the community, and build invaluable skills to help you realize your personal and professional goals. The following clubs and organizations are available to Religion MA students. The Feinstein Center for American Jewish History invites students to participate in conversations about Jewish culture, politics, history and identity across space and time. The Center also offers fellowships to predoctoral and postdoctoral Jewish studies scholars and holds events relating to the Jewish experience in America. The Journal of Ecumenical Studies is an interreligious, peer-reviewed journal housed and edited by the Department of Religion at Temple. The Dialogue Institute leads and sustains a movement of interreligious and intercultural dialogue within an academic setting and on a global scale. The Religion Graduate Student Association, of which all graduate students in the Religion Department are automatically members, gives support and voice to student concerns. A group listserv provides a venue where students can exchange information and discuss issues pertaining to the department and programs. Learn more about Temple’s student clubs and organizations. Accreditation Temple University’s departments and programs are accredited by the Middle States Commission on Higher Education. LA-REL-MA Additional Program Information Visit College Site View Program Details Go back to AcademicsMore in Religion MA Admissions Careers, Internships & Opportunities Required Courses Research & Facilities Scholarships & Financial Aid Apply Request More Info Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Calendar Policies Social Media TUportal TUmail Accessibility Careers at Temple Safety & Emergency Information Ethics & Compliance Privacy Statement Professional Licensure Disclosures Follow Temple University Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community. Apply Request More Info