Skip to global navigation Skip to page navigation Skip to content Skip to footer For Current Students, Faculty & Staff Close internal resources For current Butler students, faculty, and staff Directory My.Butler Access Email Canvas Resources For Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Library Academic Calendar Event Calendar Maps & Directions Parking BUPD Search Close Site Search Search for pages, PDFs, and contact information Search Butler.edu Search Browse the Directory Menu Close Use the icon on the left to see more links. Close AboutToggle Sub Menu Maps & Directions At a Glance Experiential Learning Student-Centered Education Innovation Graduate Outcomes Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Community & Engagement Office of the President Strategic Direction Mascot Blue IV Give to Butler COVID-19 Information Admission & AidToggle Sub Menu First-Year Transfer International Graduate & Professional Non-Degree Admitted Students Financial Aid & Scholarships Net Price Calculator Tuition & Costs Find Your Admission Counselor Virtual Tour AcademicsToggle Sub Menu Undergraduate Majors & Minors Graduate & Professional Colleges Three-Year Programs Study Abroad Service-Learning Internships & Careers Academic Services Registration & Records Library Academic Calendar Student LifeToggle Sub Menu Housing & Dining Living in Indy Student Well-Being Recreation Student Involvement Greek Life Campus Safety Volunteering Athletics Arts & Events Esports News & Stories Make a Gift Resources for: Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni & Friends Request Info Schedule a Visit Apply to Butler Resources internal resources For current Butler students, faculty, and staff Directory My.Butler Access Email Canvas Resources For Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Library Academic Calendar Event Calendar Maps & Directions Parking BUPD Search Site Search Search for pages, PDFs, and contact information Search Butler.edu Search Browse the Directory Menu About Maps & DirectionsAt a GlanceExperiential LearningStudent-Centered EducationInnovationGraduate OutcomesDiversity, Equity & InclusionCommunity & EngagementOffice of the PresidentStrategic DirectionMascot Blue IVGive to ButlerCOVID-19 Information Admission & Aid First-YearTransferInternationalGraduate & ProfessionalNon-DegreeAdmitted StudentsFinancial Aid & ScholarshipsNet Price CalculatorTuition & CostsFind Your Admission CounselorVirtual Tour Academics Undergraduate Majors & MinorsGraduate & ProfessionalCollegesThree-Year ProgramsStudy AbroadService-LearningInternships & CareersAcademic ServicesRegistration & RecordsLibraryAcademic Calendar Student Life Housing & DiningLiving in IndyStudent Well-BeingRecreationStudent InvolvementGreek LifeCampus SafetyVolunteering Athletics Arts & Events Esports News & Stories Make a Gift Resources for: Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Alumni & Friends Request Info Schedule a Visit Apply to Butler Home Admission & Aid Financial Aid & Scholarships Consumer Information Admission & Aid Menu First-Year Transfer International Graduate & Professional Admitted Non-Degree Financial Aid & Scholarships Tuition & Costs Consumer Information Authorization and Accreditation Butler University is authorized by name by the State of Indiana. Accredited by the Higher Learning Commission, Butler has been continuously accredited since 1915. View a complete list of Butler’s accreditations. Student complaints may be filed online with the Indiana Commission for Higher Education. General Institutional Information Academic Programs and Degrees Campus and Instructional Facilities University Leadership Faculty Student Diversity Equal Employment Opportunity/Non-Discrimination Policy Title IX Information and Compliance Privacy Policies Website Privacy Statement Privacy of Student Records (FERPA) The Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act (FERPA) (20 U.S.C. § 1232g; 34 CFR Part 99) is a federal law that protects the privacy of student education records. The law applies to all schools that receive funds under an applicable program of the U.S. Department of Education. In the postsecondary environment, FERPA provides a privacy protection to the student which is very broad. With limited exceptions (below), Part 99.3 of the FERPA regulations gives privacy protection to all student “education records.” Education records are defined as “[t]hose records that are directly related to a student and [are] maintained by an educational agency or institution or by a party acting for the agency or institution.” Examples of records entitled to FERPA privacy protection are grade reports, attendance records, shared advising notes, transcripts, and most disciplinary files. FERPA gives parents certain rights with respect to their children’s education records in K–12. These rights transfer to the student when he or she reaches the age of 18 or attends a school beyond the high school level. Students to whom the rights have transferred are “eligible students.” Eligible students have the right to inspect and review the education records maintained by the postsecondary institution. Schools are not required to provide copies of records unless, for reasons such as great distance, it is impossible for eligible students to review the records. Schools may charge a fee for copies. Eligible students have the right to request that a school correct records that they believe to be inaccurate or misleading. If the school decides not to amend the record, the eligible student then has the right to a formal hearing. After the hearing, if the school still decides not to amend the record, the eligible student has the right to place a statement with the record setting forth his or her view about the contested information. Generally, schools must have written permission from the eligible student in order to release any information from a student’s education record. However, FERPA allows schools to disclose those records, without consent, to the following parties or under the following conditions (34 CFR § 99.31): School officials with legitimate educational interest; Specified officials for audit or evaluation purposes; Appropriate parties in connection with financial aid to a student; Accrediting organizations; To comply with a judicial order or lawfully issued subpoena; Appropriate officials in cases of health and safety emergencies; and State and local authorities, within a juvenile justice system, pursuant to specific state law. Schools may disclose, without consent, “directory” information such as a student’s name, address, telephone number, date and place of birth, honors and awards, and dates of attendance. However, schools must tell eligible students about what constitutes directory information and allow them a reasonable amount of time to “opt out” of directory information. Schools must notify eligible students annually of their rights under FERPA. The actual means of notification (special letter, student handbook, or newspaper article) is left to the discretion of each school. For more information: Butler University Student Handbook and U.S. Department of Education. Privacy of Student Health Records Butler University Health Services is committed to the responsible treatment and use of student protected health information, as well as to full compliance with the federal Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 (HIPAA). A Notice of Health Information Practices describes the personal information that is collected, and how and when that information is used or disclosed. It also describes student rights as they relate to protected health information. Admission, Matriculation, Cost Complete information on admission procedures and processes for prospective first-year, transfer, international and graduate students, as well as information for admitted students, parents, and guidance counselors, can be found on the Office of Admission website. Comparative information about Butler University and other U.S. educational institutions is also available through the College Navigator tool, provided by the National Center for Education Statistics, and through the College Scorecard, a comprehensive database from the U.S. Department of Education. Cost of Attendance Net Price Calculator Refund Policy Withdrawal Policy Transfer of Credit Policies Articulation Agreements Butler is a member of the Consortium for Urban Education (CUE) in the Indianapolis area. By special arrangement among the member institutions, students may enroll in courses at other CUE institutions that are not available at their home institution. Cross registration enables students to enhance their degree programs by taking a course at another CUE institution and receive credit at their home institution upon successful completion of the course. More information: Consortium for Urban Education. Requirements for Withdrawal and Return of Federal Financial Aid Federal regulations state that if the student has not attended more than 60 percent of the semester, a percentage of the student’s federal Title IV aid money (excluding federal work-study funds) has not been earned. If already disbursed, the school/student may be required to repay all or a portion of the aid received to the federal aid program from which it was awarded. The formula for determining earned federal aid is as follows: divide the total number of days comprising the payment period for which assistance is awarded into the number of days completed as of the withdrawal date. The institution must return the lesser of the calculated total amount of unearned Title IV assistance or an amount equal to the total institutional charges the student incurs for the payment period multiplied by the percentage of awarded Title IV grant and loan assistance that has not been earned by the student. The school calculates this formula and returns the funds accordingly. Funds are returned in the order dictated by the federal regulations: Unsubsidized Stafford Loan Subsidized Stafford Loan Federal Perkins Loans Federal PLUS Loan Federal Pell Grant Federal SEOG Other Title IV assistance for which a return of funds is required If these actions create a balance due on the student’s account, the student will be responsible for paying the debt to the University. The student will not be allowed to register, receive an official transcript, and/or receive future financial aid until the debt has been paid in full. When the student is responsible for returning unearned Title IV assistance it is minus the amount the institution has already returned. Any Title IV loan program is returned in accordance with the terms of the loan and any Title IV grant program as an overpayment of the grant. However, a student is not required to return the portion of a grant overpayment amount that is equal to or less than 50 percent of the total grant assistance that was disbursed for a payment period. Withdrawal date is defined by the day the student withdraws as determined by the school. The school will use either the student’s official withdrawal date; the date the student submits his/her written, verbal, or electronic withdrawal through the Office of Registration and Records; or documentation of last date of attendance by the faculty or staff. Official withdrawal also includes dismissals and suspension. The Office of Financial Aid receives daily reports of enrollment changes to determine the withdrawal date. A post-withdrawal disbursement is for any student who completely withdraws from school prior to federal grants and loans being disbursed to their account. Unpaid aid will be included in the federal refund formula as “aid that could have been disbursed.” If outstanding charges exist, the institution will credit the student’s account up to the amount of contracted charges. A post-withdrawal disbursement must be made from available grant funds before available loan funds. The student (or parent borrower for a parent PLUS loan) will be notified by email of the calculated post-withdrawal disbursement amount and will need to give the University written permission to use any post-withdrawal disbursements above the contracted charges amount. The school will notify and counsel the student that it may be beneficial to turn down all or a portion of the funds to preserve his or her future eligibility. If a student declines grant and/or loan disbursement, the institution will handle the return of funds. Unofficial withdrawal review is required for students who receive grades of F, W, I X, and NC in any combination without any passing grades at the end of the semester. The FAA uses the latest date of attendance unless the student provides proof of the actual later date of attendance, and the proof is supported by the faculty or supervisor. When a last date of attendance cannot be determined, the 50% unofficial withdrawal date is used. The return of Title IV funds by the institution for which it is responsible is completed as soon as possible but no later than 45 days after the date of its determination that the student withdrew. An institution must determine the withdrawal date for a student who does not provide notification to the institution no later than 30 days after the end of the earlier of the payment period or period of enrollment. The student is notified by US Postal Service of the adjustment to the federal aid. Textbook Information Student Financial Assistance Descriptions of all student financial aid available in the form of federal, state, and University aid programs, cost of attendance, eligibility criteria, and application processes are available through the Office of Financial Aid. The office is located in Robertson Hall, lower level, 4600 Sunset Ave., Indianapolis, IN 46208. 317-940-8200; 877-940-8200 (toll-free); 317-940-8250 (fax); finaid@butler.edu. Student Loan Information Financial Literacy and Repayment Direct Loan Ombudsman The Federal Student Aid Ombudsman Group of the U.S. Department of Education is dedicated to helping resolve disputes related to Direct Loans, Federal Family Education Loan (FFEL) Program loans, Guaranteed Student Loans, and Perkins Loans. The Ombudsman Group is a neutral, informal, and confidential resource to help resolve disputes about your federal student loans. Contact the Ombudsman’s Office online, by postal mail (U.S. Dept. of Education, FSA Ombudsman Group, P.O. Box 1843, Monticello, KY 42633), by phone (877-557-2575), or by fax (606-396-4821). Exit Counseling for Student Borrowers Student borrowers will receive notification from the Office of Financial Aid during their last semester advising them to complete this required counseling. This interactive counseling session will inform students of their Federal Direct Loan balance, describe the available repayment plan options, and allow them to compare monthly payments for each plan. More information: Financial Literacy and Repayment. Butler University Code of Conduct for Education Loans Statement of Student Education Loan Oversight Butler University does not have special arrangements with providers of student loans. Examples of special arrangements could include: a) revenue sharing between the school and lender; b) special arrangements for private loans based on loan volume; c) contracting arrangement for compensation for school staff; d) use of call centers staffed by lenders; and e) accepting of gifts above nominal value (e.g., pens). The Butler University Office of Financial Aid does not automatically assign a lender as students apply for education loans. The aid office will process a loan based on the student’s choice of borrower. There will be no intention to delay certification of a loan based on a student’s preference. University staff will not accept compensation for service on advisory boards for any lender. It is permissible to expected reasonable reimbursement for travel expenses. Butler University has a comprehensive Conflict of Interest Policy that is adhered to by all staff and faculty. This policy is in sync with the expectations of the congressional intent of the Code of Conduct for the administration of student education loans. A more detailed copy of the Student Education Loan Code of Conduct is available by contacting the Office of Financial Aid (information above). Primary Private Loan Lenders Primary Lender Selection Process Student Services Campus Life and Student Activities Student Success Career and Job Placement Services Facilities and Services for Students with Disabilities Voter Registration Butler students not registered to vote may obtain an Indiana Mail-in Voter Registration Application (VRG-7). Student Outcomes Additional statistical information on students, including enrollment trends, retention, multicultural student enrollment, and graduation rates, can be found in the Butler University Institutional Data Profile (Fact Book). First- to Second-Year Retention Rate (see item #10) Graduation Rates of Full-Time First-Year Students (see item #13) Job Placement Rates for Graduates Graduate and Professional Education Placement for Graduates Teacher Preparation Program Report The U.S. Department of Education includes data on teacher preparation in “Title II Reports on the Quality of Teacher Preparation and States’ Requirements and Assessments for Initial Credentials,” available here. (Select “View Reports and Resources” to view data for Indiana.) Gainful Employment Disclosures for Certificate Programs For information on the estimated costs, related standard occupations, and normal completion time for the certificate programs that are eligible for Title IV funding, view these documents: Licensed Mental Health Counselor Applied Educational Neuroscience Computer Use and Copyright Policies Copyright Policy/File Sharing Computer Use Master Policy Fair, Responsible, and Acceptable Computer Use Code of Responsibility for Security and Confidentiality of Information Health and Safety Complete information about campus safety, policies, and procedures is available from the Department of Public Safety. DawgAlert DawgAlert gives University administrators the ability to reach students, faculty, and staff on and off campus with a clear, consistent message. The system will broadcast information to any communication device—landlines and cell phones, email, and PDAs. DawgAlert complements the tools the University already has in place to communicate during emergencies and weather-related delays and closings. These tools include voice and text message phone alerts, web alerts, all-campus email and voicemail alerts, and announcements through the news media. DawgAlert enrollment is available to the entire Butler community. Clery Act Compliance Information Annual Security and Fire Safety Report Emergency Response Plan Missing Persons Procedure for Students Health and Wellness Counseling Services Vaccination Policies Butler University is committed to maintaining a healthy campus community. Upon admission, all domestic undergraduate and international students must submit the following: health history (online); TB questionnaire (online); physical exam (obtained within the preceding 12 months and performed by an MD, ANP, PA-C, or DO); and immunization records on official medical office letterhead or state immunization registry stationery. For complete information, visit Butler University Health Services Requirements. Student Athletes The National Collegiate Athletic Association (NCAA) provides information by institution regarding students who are receiving athletically related student aid: Graduation Success Rates, Federal Graduation Rates Academic Progress Rates Additional information on Butler University student athletes, mandated by the Equity in Athletics Disclosure Act, includes Intercollegiate Athletic Program Participation Rates and Financial Support Data. This information can be found using this Equity in Athletics report. Athletics Equity Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 prohibits discrimination on the basis of sex in education programs, including athletics, that receive federal financial assistance. Background information is available from the U.S. Department of Education’s Office for Civil Rights: Requirements Under Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972. 4600 Sunset Avenue Indianapolis, IN 46208 800-368-6852 Careers at Butler Legal Consumer Information Website Feedback & Accessibility Sexual Misconduct Resources Incident of Bias Privacy Policy © 2022 Butler University Para ver esta pagina en espanol, véala en el traductor de Google