Skip to main content Skip to main navigation Counseling Center Menu COVID-19 About Us Confidentiality Contact Us Feedback BUCC Mission Statement Diversity Vision Statement Diversity Meet the Staff Notice of Non-Discrimination Our Interns and Graduate Trainees Records Request Where are we located? POTH Policy Counseling Services Response to Serving Students During the Pandemic Services Baylor Telehealth by Academic Live Care Get Started Here Clinical Services Addictive Behavior Services Are you in crisis? Care Management Services Groups LOTUS Medical Nutrition Services Additional Information about Regina Mastin Office Hours Program of Care Scope of Service Initial Assessments Outreach Around the Table Active Minds at Baylor Outreach Request Form APA Accredited Doctoral Internship Program Letter from the Training Director Adaptation and Flexibility in the APA Internship Program related to COVID-19 APA Accreditation Overview of the APA-Accredited Internship RCT Framework for Training and Supervision Trauma Recovery Supervision Group (TRSG) Diversity Outreach Partnership (DOP) Our Commitment to Diversity Working at a Faith-Based Christian University Application Information & Selection Process Baylor University Our Counseling Center Stipend, Benefits, and Other Resources Internship Admissions, Support, and Initial Placement Data Current and Past Interns Waco & The Heart of Texas Contact Us Maintaining Mental Health Baylor>Counseling Center>APA Accredited Doctoral Internship Program>Adaptation and Flexibility in the APA Internship Program related to COVID-19 Adaptation and Flexibility in the APA Internship Program related to COVID-19 BUCC’s internship program has become more flexible through the COVID-19 pandemic, adapting the use of technology as needed to continue high quality training of future psychologists. All fundamental building blocks of internship were maintained during the pandemic, with adjustments or alterations for physically distanced work. For academic year 2021-22, Baylor University is planning on typical in-person educational experience for students, faculty, and staff. The Counseling Center also will return to in-person training, delivering activities in our offices and meeting rooms on campus. BUCC will be offering a hybrid model of clinical services to students, with the options for in-person or tele-health counseling. In that context, we are building in additional flexibility to incorporate the best of what we have learned during the pandemic into our training program, and to be prepared in case we need to shift our operations in the future. Below is a list of some of those developments: In the event of future health related challenges, we are prepared to offer a wide range of clinical and training experiences via telesupervision and telehealth means. For example: All clinical staff, including interns, will have portable laptops available for the flexibility of pivoting quickly to a work-from-home scenario if necessary. Our EMR is cloud-based and securely accessible online. Staff have been trained in telework and telesupervision practices. BUCC will continue the use of cloud storage of common documents, for ease of accessibility, including remote access if necessary. BUCC has made several adaptations of the training program to acknowledge the changed reality of offering mental health services, such as: We will provide telebehavioral health training as a didactic seminar annually. We will add competency markers for telebehavioral health to the evaluation forms. We may integrate distance-learning experiences into outreach opportunities. We will integrate the flexibility offered by video-conferencing into programming, while still favoring in-person meetings, trainings, and supervisions as being more connecting. Situations that might benefit from using the video-conferencing format might include: Safety issues (e.g. pandemic) Time constraints during busy times Convenience of not traveling across campus Inclement weather Open House options during Selection Process Outside speakers can provide unique training seminars without having to travel Also, be reassured that regardless of circumstances, interns are full-time salaried employees like other permanent staff at BUCC. As such they are covered by the same Baylor HR policies, and have the same resources and support. Flexibility is the operative word during these times, so we are prepared to respond as safety circumstances change without our training program being fundamentally compromised in its goals. We are highly invested in the training of future psychologists, and have built the ability to adapt into our training program to ensure that we can continue to do this with excellence. APA Accredited Doctoral Internship Program Letter from the Training Director Adaptation and Flexibility in the APA Internship Program related to COVID-19 APA Accreditation Overview of the APA-Accredited Internship RCT Framework for Training and Supervision Trauma Recovery Supervision Group (TRSG) Diversity Outreach Partnership (DOP) Our Commitment to Diversity Working at a Faith-Based Christian University Application Information & Selection Process Baylor University Our Counseling Center Stipend, Benefits, and Other Resources Internship Admissions, Support, and Initial Placement Data Current and Past Interns Waco & The Heart of Texas Contact Us Visit Us McLane Student Life Center, 2nd Floor 209 Speight Ave Waco, TX 76706 Contact Us 254.710.2467 Counseling_Center@baylor.edu Show More General Information Colleges, Schools, Libraries & Research Admissions Administration Gateways For... About Baylor Anonymous Reporting Athletics Ask Baylor Bookstore Calendar Campus Map Directory Give Light Give to Baylor Illuminate Mental Health Resources News Pro Futuris Report It Search Social Media Title IX Baylor Libraries College of Arts & Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work George W. Truett Theological Seminary Graduate School Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Louise Herrington School of Nursing Research at Baylor University Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Engineering & Computer Science School of Music More Academics Undergraduate Admissions goBAYLOR Graduate Admissions Baylor Law School Admissions Social Work Graduate Programs George W. Truett Theological Seminary Admissions Online Graduate Professional Education Virtual Tour Visit Campus Annual Fire Safety and Security Notice Athletics Human Resources Marketing and Communications Office of General Counsel Office of the President Office of the Provost Operations, Finance & Administration Senior Administration Student Life University Advancement Baylor Alumni Faculty & Staff Online Graduate Professional Education Parents Prospective Faculty & Staff Prospective Students Students Counseling Center Facebook Pinterest Twitter Copyright © Baylor® University. All rights reserved. Legal Disclosures. Baylor University • Waco, Texas 76798 • 1-800-229-5678 COVID-19 About Us Confidentiality Contact Us Feedback BUCC Mission Statement Diversity Vision Statement Diversity Meet the Staff Notice of Non-Discrimination Our Interns and Graduate Trainees Records Request Where are we located? POTH Policy Counseling Services Response to Serving Students During the Pandemic Services Baylor Telehealth by Academic Live Care Get Started Here Clinical Services Addictive Behavior Services Are you in crisis? Care Management Services Groups LOTUS Medical Nutrition Services Additional Information about Regina Mastin Office Hours Program of Care Scope of Service Initial Assessments Outreach Around the Table Active Minds at Baylor Outreach Request Form APA Accredited Doctoral Internship Program Letter from the Training Director Adaptation and Flexibility in the APA Internship Program related to COVID-19 APA Accreditation Overview of the APA-Accredited Internship RCT Framework for Training and Supervision Trauma Recovery Supervision Group (TRSG) Diversity Outreach Partnership (DOP) Our Commitment to Diversity Working at a Faith-Based Christian University Application Information & Selection Process Baylor University Our Counseling Center Stipend, Benefits, and Other Resources Internship Admissions, Support, and Initial Placement Data Current and Past Interns Waco & The Heart of Texas Contact Us Maintaining Mental Health