Brown University Quick Exit General Health Physical Health Acne Asthma Breast Exams Bronchitis Colds Concussion Headaches Meningitis Mononucleosis Sleep Seasonal Flu Sun Safety and Skin Cancer Stomach Flu Testicular Self-Exams Travel and Health Yeast Infection Emotional Wellbeing Mindfulness Sleep Stress Self-Care Techniques for Stress Relief Wellness on Campus Social Wellbeing Community, Connection and Coping: Remote Resources Consent Economic Stress Roommate Relationships Unlearning Toxic Masculinity Reproductive Health Abortion Adoption Amenorrhea Bacterial Vaginosis Colposcopy Erectile Dysfunction Pregnancy Gender Care GYN Visits HPV Vaccine Menstruation Pelvic Inflammatory Disease Pregnancy Tests Premature Ejaculation Prenatal Care Testicular Self-Exams Accessing Care Gender Care GYN Visits LGBTQ Health Care at Health Services Men's Health Exams Pregnancy Tests STI Testing Options Resources and Links Nutrition & Eating Concerns Eating Well at Brown Being a Vegetarian Dietary Guidelines Eating Off Meal Plan Meal Plan And Dining Information Supplements Eating Concerns and Body Image Body Image Concerns Eating Concerns Help at Brown Sports Nutrition Relative Energy Deficiency in Sport (RED-S) Sports Nutrition Accessing Care Help at Brown Worried about a Friend Sexual Health Sex 101 SHAG! Erectile Dysfunction Orgasm Premature Ejaculation Sex and Alcohol Sex Toys Sexually Explicit Media Contraception Birth Control Pills Cervical Cap Condoms Depo-Provera Emergency Contraception Fertility Awareness Method Implant Internal Condoms IUD Ortho Evra (The Patch) Ring Spermicides and Lubricants The Recent Election & Contraception Access Withdrawal (Pull Out Method) Reproductive Health Abortion Adoption Amenorrhea Colposcopy Erectile Dysfunction Pregnancy GYN Visits HPV Vaccine Menstruation Pelvic Inflammatory Disease Pregnancy Tests Prenatal Care Testicular Self-Exams Yeast Infection Safer Sex Ship n SHAG! Sexual Health and Safer Sex During Covid-19 Abstinence Condoms Dental Dams Internal Condoms Post Exposure Prophylaxis (PEP) Pre Exposure Prophylaxis (PrEP) Safer Sex Withdrawal (Pull Out Method) STIs AIDS/HIV Bacterial Vaginosis Chlamydia Colposcopy Gonorrhea Hepatitis B Herpes HPV and Genital Warts HPV Vaccine Molluscum Contagiosum Oral Sex and STIs Pelvic Inflammatory Disease Pubic Lice and Scabies Sexually Transmitted Infections Syphilis Talking with a Partner STI Testing Options Trichomoniasis Urinary Tract Infections Yeast Infection Sexual Assault & Dating Violence Get Help Sexual Assault Response Line SHARE Advocates Dating Violence First Five Days After an Assault Male Survivors Sexual Violence and Assault Sexual Harassment Stalking Help a Friend SHARE Advocates How to Help a Friend Get Involved in Prevention Interrupting the Red Zone: How we keep each other safe Culture of Respect Collective Sexual Assault Peer Education (SAPE) Help Prevent Sexual Assault Unlearning Toxic Masculinity Relationships and Communication Consent Dating Violence Learn More Common Reactions to Sexual Violence and Assault Predatory Drugs Sexual Misconduct and Title IX Sexual Violence: Key Terms Resources and Links Alcohol & Other Drugs Alcohol Alcohol and Your Body Recognizing a Problem Risks and Realities Sex and Alcohol Ways to Cut Down Other Drugs Caffeine Cocaine Ecstasy Energy Drinks GHB Inhalants Ketamine LSD Marijuana Methamphetamine Predatory Drugs Psilocybin (Mushrooms) Rohypnol Tobacco Smokeless Tobacco Smoking Cessation Tobacco Learn More Law and Policy Summary Educational Links Accessing Care Resources at Brown Off Campus Resources Calling EMS How to Help a Friend Quit Smoking How to Talk to a Friend about Drinking or Drug Use Google Tag Manager Reproductive Health Erectile Dysfunction What is erectile dysfunction? All people with penises will have difficulties with erections from time to time. The occasional failure to get or maintain an erection, which lasts long enough to have sex, can occur for a variety of reasons, including drinking too much alcohol or being very tired. The inability to get or maintain an erection less than 20% of the time is not unusual. Erectile dysfunction (ED) is the inability to get or maintain an erection 25% or more of the time. Some people with ED find they are completely unable to achieve an erection, others have an inconsistent ability to achieve an erection, and still others experience only brief erections. ED is a frustrating condition that can have physical or psychological causes. ED can be the first sign of an underlying health condition that needs treatment, so seeking medical evaluation is important. ED is also different from a lack of sexual desire or problems with ejaculation and orgasm. (If you are able to get an erection but then it goes away because you ejaculate more quickly than you would like, click here to visit our page on premature ejaculation.) How common is it? Erectile dysfunction affects 30 million people in the United States. The problem can occur at any age, but the older a person gets, the greater the chance of developing a health problem that results in ED. According to the National Institutes of Health, among people with penises, approximately 5% of 40-year-olds and between 15 and 25% of 65-year-olds experience ED on a long-term basis. In young people, erectile dysfunction is less common and when it does occur is more likely to have a psychological cause such as stress or performance anxiety. Still, younger people are seeking treatment for this and other sexual problems in increasing numbers. The use of Viagra increased 312% among people aged 18-45 between 1998 and 2002. How does an erection occur? For an erection to occur, several parts of the body must work together. The brain sends messages to control the nerves, hormone levels, blood flow and muscles that cause an erection. If anything interferes with these messages, or if any part of the system doesn't function correctly, an erection won't occur. The penis has two sponge-like cylindrical structures that run along its length, parallel to the urethra (the tube that carries semen and urine). During sexual arousal, these cylinders become engorged with blood, straightening and stiffening the penis. Continued sexual arousal maintains the higher rate of blood flow into the penis and limits the flow out of the penis, keeping the erection firm. After ejaculation or when the sexual excitement passes, the excess blood drains out of the spongy tissue and the penis returns to its non-erect size and shape. What are the psychological causes of erectile dysfunction? A number of things can interfere with sexual feelings and lead to or exacerbate erectile dysfunction. These can include: depression anxiety history of physical, emotional, or sexual abuse stress fatigue poor communication or conflict with your partner Erectile dysfunction as a result of a psychological cause tends to develop rapidly and be related to a recent situation or event. You may find you are able to have an erection in some circumstances but not in others. If you are generally able to experience or maintain an erection when you first wake up in the morning this can suggest that the problem is psychological rather than physical. What are the physical causes of erectile dysfunction? While thoughts and emotions always play a role in getting an erection, erectile dysfunction is most often caused by something physical, such as a chronic health problem or the side effects of a medication. The physical and psychological causes of erectile dysfunction interact. For instance, a minor physical problem that slows sexual response may cause anxiety about maintaining an erection. The resulting anxiety can worsen erectile dysfunction. A variety of physical risk factors can contribute to erectile dysfunction. Factors that may be present for younger men include: Substance abuse. Chronic use of alcohol, marijuana or other drugs can cause erectile dysfunction and decreased sexual drive. Stress, anxiety or depression. Other psychological conditions also contribute to some cases of erectile dysfunction. Smoking. Smoking can cause erectile dysfunction because it restricts blood flow to veins and arteries. People who smoke cigarettes are much more likely to develop erectile dysfunction. Having a chronic health condition. Diseases of the lungs, liver, kidneys, heart, nerves, arteries or veins can lead to erectile dysfunction. So can endocrine system disorders, particularly diabetes. The accumulation of deposits (plaques) in your arteries (atherosclerosis) also can prevent adequate blood from entering your penis. And in some people, erectile dysfunction may be caused by low levels of testosterone. Taking certain medications. A wide range of drugs - including antidepressants, antihistamines and medications to treat high blood pressure, pain and prostate cancer - can cause erectile dysfunction by interfering with nerve impulses or blood flow to the penis. Tranquilizers and sleeping aids also can pose a problem. Certain surgeries or injuries. Damage to the nerves that control erections can cause erectile dysfunction. This damage can occur if you injure your pelvic area or spinal cord. Surgery to treat bladder, rectal or prostate cancer can increase your risk of erectile dysfunction. Prolonged bicycling. Over an extended period, pressure from a bicycle seat has been shown to compress nerves and blood flow to the penis, leading to temporary erectile dysfunction and penile numbness. Metabolic syndrome. This syndrome is characterized by unhealthy cholesterol and triglyceride levels, high blood pressure, and insulin resistance. When should I seek treatment? Whether the cause is physical factors or psychological factors or a combination of both, erectile dysfunction can become a source of mental and emotional stress for you - and your partner(s). If erectile dysfunction is more than a temporary, short-term problem, see your medical provider. Brown students can make an appointment at Health Services by calling 401.863-3953. You can request specific providers by name or by gender. Your provider can help you determine the underlying cause or causes of erectile dysfunction and then help you find the right type of treatment. If you experience occasional or persistent erectile dysfunction, your partner(s) may see your inability to have an erection as a sign of diminished sexual desire. Your reassurance that this is not the case can help. Try to communicate openly and honestly about your condition. Treatment is often more successful if partners address the issue together. What treatments are available? Although most people with penises experience episodes of erectile dysfunction from time to time, you can take these steps to decrease the likelihood of occurrences: Exercise regularly. Reduce stress. Click to learn more about stress management. Get enough sleep. Click for healthy sleep tips. Get help for anxiety or depression. Limit or avoid the use of alcohol. Avoid recreational drugs, including marijuana. Stop or reduce smoking. Access smoking cessation strategies and support here. See your medical provider for regular checkups and medical screening tests. Work with your medical provider to manage conditions that can lead to erectile dysfunction, such as diabetes and heart disease. For psychological causes, seeking treatment from a mental health professional or from a sex therapist can be very helpful. If you are a Brown student, you can seek help from Counseling and Psychological Services for issues including stress, depression, and anxiety. AASECT maintains a list of certified sex therapists across the country. For physical causes, a wide variety of treatments are available, depending on the specific physical issue. The first step is often to try ED medications, like Viagra, since these help most men. Depending on your diagnosis, other treatments range from changing your prescription drugs to hormone replacement therapy, antidepressant therapy, and devices, medications or implants to produce erections. On-Campus Resources Counseling and Psychological Services 401.863-3476 Counseling and Psychological Services provides individual appointments, referrals, and groups on a variety of issues. Appointments are free as they have been covered by your Health Services fee. Health Services 401.863-3953 Health Services provides a range of services including general health care, STI testing, inpatient services and emergency medical care. BWell Health Promotion 401.863-2794 Health Promotion is available for individual appointments on a variety of health issues, including premature ejaculation or other sexual health concerns. We also have safer sex supplies available. Related Links American Urological Association This site offers information on erectile dysfunction, including treatment options, as well as information on other sexual function issues. American Association of Sexuality Educators Counselors and Therapists AASECT offers a directory of certified sex therapists as well as links to sexuality resources. Men's Health Center from the Mayo Clinic Learn what's normal and what's not, take an interactive quiz about your body and read about sex and relationships from this informative site. CDC Men's Health Portal This site includes a wide range of health information. There are links to research articles, medical and health screenings information, and a collection of health quizzes. About BWell: Quick Links About Us Staff Confidential Appointments Sexual Assault Response Line Workshops Peer Education Programs Health Empowerment Tools PHONE NUMBERS 401.863-2794 Health Promotion 401.863-3953 Health Services 401.863-6000 Sexual Assault Response Line 401.863-4111 EMS 401.863-3476 Counseling & Psychological Services 401.863-4111 DPS Make an Appointment What is Peer Education? Learn about BWell's Peer Education Programs! Get involved in empowerment and prevention work at Brown. Get Involved Meet Our Staff About Us Make an Appointment Brown University BWell Health Promotion Health and Wellness Brown University Box 1928 450 Brook Street Providence, Rhode Island, 02912 Phone 401-863-2794 Fax 401-863-7953 [email protected] © 2022 Brown University Connect: [email protected] Related Offices Brown EMS Counseling and Psychological Services Health Services Social Media BWell on Facebook SHAG on Facebook BURP on Facebook Health Services on Facebook