Menu Close Menu Skip to content Information For: Prospective Students Current Students Alumni Faculty & Staff Friends & Supporters A to Z index Search for: Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health Email People Departments Calendar Careers my.harvard Giving About Faculty & Research Admissions & Aid Academics Executive/Continuing Ed News Graduation Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health > Graduation > Information for Guests > Transportation and shuttles Graduation Menu Search for: Home Class of 2022 Response form 2022 University Commencement Regalia Affinity Graduation Celebrations Student Speaker Contest Visa Support Letter Other Graduation Events Classes of 2020 and 2021 Response form 20/21 University Commencement Regalia Keynote Speaker Harvard Chan Live Speaker Profiles Getting to Campus Visa Support Letter Alumni Graduation Timeline November Graduation Timeline March Graduation Timeline May Graduation Timeline Diploma, Registration, Dissertation, Tuition & Health Insurance Information Loan Exit Counseling Requirements Awards Post-Graduation FAQs Information for Faculty Information for Guests Transportation and shuttles Transportation and shuttles Class of 2022 Harvard Chan School Convocation for the Class of 2022 May 25, 2022 Location: Reggie Lewis Center, Roxbury Crossing, MA 02120 Find more information about transportation, including additional maps, on the Reggie Lewis Center website. Parking and shuttle for Reggie Lewis Center Note: Face masks are required while riding shuttles. First come, first serve parking will be available at Roxbury Community College Parking Lots 2 and 3 at the intersection of Columbus Ave and New Heath Street, approximately 0.4 miles from the Reggie Lewis Center. Parking lot shuttles from Roxbury Community College Parking Lots 2 and 3 to the Reggie Lewis Center will be available every 10-15 minutes between 9:00 am and 11:00 am, and again between 3:00 pm and 4:30 pm. <span data-mce-type="bookmark" style="display: inline-block; width: 0px; overflow: hidden; line-height: 0;" class="mce_SELRES_start">﻿</span> Public transit We encourage all guests to take public transit to Convocation at the Reggie Lewis Center. The closest MBTA station is Roxbury Crossing, on the Orange Line, located directly across the street from the Reggie Lewis Center. Harvard University Commencement Thursday, May 26, 2022 Location: Tercentenary Theatre, Harvard Yard, Cambridge MA 02138 Shuttle to Cambridge Note: Face masks are required while riding shuttles. Shuttles from the Longwood area to the Cambridge campus will be provided the morning of May 26. Those shuttles will depart from Shattuck House (203 Park Drive, Boston) at the following times: 7:00 AM 7:15 AM 7:30 AM 7:45 AM Public transit We encourage all guests to take public transportation to Cambridge, as parking near the campus is extremely limited. The nearest MBTA station is Harvard Square, on the Red Line. For more transit options, please see the University’s Commencement website. Classes of 2020 and 2021 Harvard Chan Live Friday, May 27, 2022 François-Xavier Bagnoud Building For more information on transportation options for the Harvard Chan Live event, visit the getting to campus page. Harvard Chan Convocation for the Classes of 2020 and 2021 Saturday May 28, 2022 Location: Harvard Medical School Quad, Boston MA 02155 Public transit We encourage all guests to take public transit. The ceremony will take place on the Harvard Medical School Quad at 200 Longwood Ave in Boston. The nearest MBTA stations are Longwood on the D Line (Green Line) or Brigham Circle on the E Line (Green Line). Harvard University Celebration Sunday May 29, 2022 Location: Tercentenary Theatre, Harvard Yard, Cambridge MA 02138 Public transit We encourage all guests to take public transit. The nearest MBTA station is Harvard Square, on the Red Line. For more information, please see the University’s Commencement website. News from the School Congratulations graduates! Probing disease disparities Saving a daughter, starting a career Tackling disparities and stigma around obesity, mental health Information For: Prospective Students Current Students Alumni Faculty & Staff Friends & Supporters About Key Facts Renaming the School Office of the Dean Location and Facilities Administrative Offices Contact Us Faculty and Research Faculty and Researcher Directory Academic Departments, Divisions and Centers International Research Postdoctoral Research Fellows Office of Faculty Affairs Faculty Searches Office of Diversity and Inclusion Admissions & Aid Why Harvard Chan Degree Programs Non-Degree Programs Financial Aid Student Experience Career Advancement Apply Academics Academic Departments Divisions Research Centers Flagship Initiatives International Research Research Administration and Support Degree Programs Fellowships and Residencies Summer Programs Continuing Professional Education Interdisciplinary Concentrations Academic Calendar Harvard Chan Viewbook Executive/Continuing Ed Program Offerings Custom Programs Request Information News and Resources About ECPE Contact News Featured News Press Releases Student Stories In the News Newsletters HPH Magazine Why Public Health? Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health 677 Huntington Avenue Boston, MA 02115 +1 (617) 495‑1000 Twitter Facebook YouTube LinkedIn Instagram iTunes Harvard Chan Home Contact Us Harvard University Home Make a Gift Privacy Policy Report Copyright Violation Accessibility Copyright © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College