By continuing to use this site, you agree to the use of cookies in accordance with our privacy policy. Dismiss Stay Safe The official source of public health information for Syracuse University. Skip to Content Open menu About Admissions Academics Life Athletics More Search the University Open search Popular searches Close menu Home About Toggle dropdown Leadership Vision & Mission Consumer Information Facts & Figures Plan Your Visit Campus Map History News Partnerships Work at Syracuse Social Media Bookstore Brand Help & Contacts Admissions Toggle dropdown Undergraduate Graduate Online Part-Time Cost & Aid Request Information Visit & Tour Apply Academics Toggle dropdown Schools & Colleges Undergraduate Majors & Minors Graduate Degrees Online Programs Syracuse University Global Study Abroad Opportunities & Support Calendars Departments Research Centers & Institutes Libraries, Collections & Galleries Academic Administration Life Toggle dropdown Accessibility & Diversity Campus Highlights Events Calendar Services & Support Meals & Dining Housing Groups & Activities Recreation & Facilities For Students For Veterans & Military For Faculty & Staff For Parents & Families A-Z Index Sitemap Login Athletics Men’s Sports Toggle dropdown Basketball Cross Country Football Lacrosse Rowing Soccer Track and Field Women’s Sports Toggle dropdown Basketball Cross Country Field Hockey Ice Hockey Lacrosse Rowing Soccer Softball Tennis Track and Field Volleyball Athletics Dept. Toggle dropdown Facilities Staff Directory Academic Honors Community Service Spirit Program Varsity Club Sports Medicine Championships Fan Zone Toggle dropdown Dome Schedule Seating Information Orange All Access Otto’s Kids Club Game Photos Promotions Orange Club Schedules News Alumni About Toggle dropdown Notable Alumni Alumni Association Awards News Events and Clubs Toggle dropdown Orange Central Northeast Midwest South West World/Affinity Regions Toggle dropdown Atlanta Boston Chicago Los Angeles Middle East New York San Francisco Washington, DC Services Toggle dropdown Career Network Generation Orange Directory Profile Class Notes Giving Contact Contact Visit Apply Coronavirus Updates Forever Orange Home Admissions Visit and Tour In this Section Virtual Tour Campus Visits Orange Experience Open Houses In Your Area Virtual Sample Classes Personal Interviews Graduate Events FAQ Visit and Tour Everything you need to get to know us. Browse the links below to explore campus and hear what Orange life is like straight from students. Are you an admitted student? Discover visit options just for you. Campus Visits Link Explore campus on a student-led or self-guided tour! Virtual Campus Tour Link Syracuse University fosters a warm, classical collegiate environment where you can live, learn, and thrive. The best way to discover everything we have to offer is an in-person visit—but we know that not everyone can make it to campus. Personal Interviews Link While not required, prospective first-year and transfer students have the opportunity to schedule a personal interview with an admissions representative. Virtual Sample Classes Link See what it’s like to be a college student by attending one of our virtual sample classes based on real courses taught at Syracuse University! These classes are open to all prospective students, no matter your desired academic program. Virtual Sessions Link Connect with us online! Join us for a Syracuse University information program for prospective students or a session related to your academic area of interest. Orange Previews Link Spend a morning on campus to learn about our academic programs, tour campus and meet faculty, staff and other campus representatives. Connect With Us! Our staff meets with students and college advisors across the U.S. and around the world. Meet Your Admissions Representative Follow Syracuse U100 on Instagram for the latest from Syracuse University tour guides and student ambassadors. Frequently Asked Questions Link What are the deadlines for applying? When is the Office of Admissions open? Can I make an appointment to speak with an admissions representative? Can I stay in a residence hall when I visit campus? Are Open Houses offered during the fall and spring? Will I be able to tour a residence hall? More frequently asked questions Featured Stories Live the Orange Experience Through Our Students Join current students as they share a glimpse of daily campus life and what it means to be part of a proud community of innovators, thinkers and change makers. Related Pages Apply Applying is easy and only takes minutes using the Common Application. Undergraduate Majors and Minors With over 200 customizable majors and 100 minors, Syracuse University provides limitless educational pathways. Living in the City of Syracuse Syracuse University is located in the heart of New York State, and rests atop a hill overlooking the City of Syracuse. Downtown is just a short walk, drive, or bus ride away from campus. With a metropolitan population of 700,000, Syracuse is a hub for cultural, recreational, and artistic events. Campus Map Here you'll find comprehensive campus maps to academic buildings, residence halls, parking, directions, and more. Visit Options For: Graduate Students Visits are program specific. Contact your school or college of interest to schedule tour. Admitted Students The Office of Admissions hosts events for admitted students throughout the spring. Popular Toggle dropdown Academic Calendar Campus Map Careers Libraries Majors and Minors Visit and Tour A-Z Toggle dropdown Academic Departments Schools and Colleges Sitemap Search Contact Toggle dropdown Admissions Financial Aid Emergency Contacts Human Resources Make a Gift Login Toggle dropdown MySlice Blackboard SUMail Syracuse University 900 South Crouse Ave. Syracuse, NY 13244 Phone: +1.315.443.1870 Follow S.U. on Instagram Like S.U. on Facebook Follow S.U. on Twitter Follow S.U. on LinkedIn Follow S.U. on Tiktok Subscribe to S.U. on YouTube © Syracuse University. Knowledge crowns those who seek her. Accessibility Accreditation Emergencies Privacy