Skip to main content ISU Index Menu iastate.edu Index A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z ISU Quick Links Menu Directory Maps Safety Sign Ons AccessPlus Canvas CyBox CyMail Outlook More Sign Ons... College of Agriculture and Life Sciences Main menu Main Menu About Administration Calendar Committees Departments and Centers Diversity Faculty & Staff Global Programs Lecture Series Satellite Campuses Alumni and Friends Alumni Relations STORIES Magazine Giving Research Research Highlights For Researchers Farms Students Student Services Majors Request Information Schedule a Visit Scholarships Careers Study Abroad Graduate Programs Online Learning Extension Extension Resources Ag and Natural Resources Read more about CALS Convocation Photos CALS Convocation Photos Congratulations to all spring 2022 graduating students! View photos from the May 13 CALS Convocation. See photos Graduating senior has passion for animals and languages Growing up in Puerto Rico, Valeria Miranda Ortiz always loved animals. So when she decided to go to college to pursue that love, she looked to go to the U.S. The only problem was, at the time, she didn’t speak much English. Miranda Ortiz says that Iowa State was very understanding and helpful, so when she got accepted, she jumped at the chance. She worked hard to master English while also taking classes, sometimes recording lectures so she could listen to them again late at night. And all that hard work learning English led her to another passion of hers: learning languages. Since she got to Iowa State, Miranda Ortiz has since learned sign language and Portuguese as well, all while staying on track to finish her animal science degree. Read more about Miranda Ortiz's story. News and Featured Stories Kinzenbaw gift provides support for research and student scholarships in agricultural and biosystems engineering Albaugh partners with Iowa Soybean Research Center at Iowa State University Innovation and Entrepreneurship: Students 'nerd out' as they build bionic hand Breeding transforms sorghum’s potential as biofuel of the future for northern latitudes Yard and Garden: Growing Sweet Potato in Iowa Fall Master Gardener Training Offered as Hybrid Course View more news STORIES magazine Alumnus pens book about history of New Farmers of America Antoine Alston (’00 PhD agricultural education and studies) recently co-wrote “The Legacy of the New Farmers of America,” a historical narrative about a national organization meant for Black farm boys studying vocational agriculture in high school. Through photos and narratives, the 127-page book looks at the structure and leadership of the NFA, as well as the impacts it had on the community before the organization merged with FFA in 1965. Innovation in Action Research using UV light produces safer, cleaner air that 'smells like toothpaste' Breathing cleaner air has become more relevant than ever in the last few years. What if, along with cleaner air, it smelled fresh and minty, too? For Iowa State University Department of Agricultural and Biosystems Engineering Professor Jacek Koziel, studying how to have clean air and reduce odor is nothing new. He has been in pursuit of healthy air quality for the last 15 years, using ultraviolet light to filter out airborne pathogens and produce air that ends up smelling like toothpaste. Connect with the College Tweets by ISU CALS $4 mil. in scholarships are offered to students annually through CALS and its departments. 98% of College of Agriculture and Life Sciences graduates reported they were working, continuing their education or serving in the military within six months of receiving their diplomas. 4% Iowa State University's agricultural programs rank in the top 4% worldwide among other agriculture and forestry institutions, according to the 2022 QS World University Rankings. College of Agriculture and Life Sciences 138 Curtiss Hall 513 Farm House Lane Ames IA 50011-1050 cals@iastate.edu (515) 294-2518 Facebook Twitter Instagram Vimeo STORIES Site Index Copyright © 2022 Iowa State University of Science and Technology. All rights reserved. Non-discrimination Policy Privacy Policy Digital Access & Accessibility