Texas Tech University Directory Raiderlink A-Z Index Parent and Family Relations Menu Search TTU Parent and Family Relations Red Raider Family Polls Parent & Family Relations conducts the Red Raider Family Poll—a brief poll about Texas Tech parent and family experiences. Take this month's poll Current Red Raider Family Poll Results May 2022 April 2022 March 2022 February 2022 January 2022 Past Red Raider Family Poll Results 2021 Pulse Polls June 2021 - We asked parents and family members which topic their student(s) sought the most assistance with. July 2021 - We asked parents and family members about their student's summer plans. August 2021 - We asked parents and family members what life skills their student(s) need the most guidance in. September 2021 - We asked parents and family members which way the communicate most often with their student(s) October 2021 - We asked parents and family members about their student's Thanksgiving holiday transportation plans. November 2021 - We asked parents and family members which social media platforms they access most frequently and which social media platforms their student(s) use. 2019 Pulse Polls June 2019: Move-In - We asked parents and family members how long they stayed after helping their student move in. January 2019: Contacting Texas Tech - We asked parents and family members which topics they specifically contacted Texas Tech about regarding their student. 2018 Pulse Polls November 2018: Spring Family Days - We asked parents and family members what events they would be most interested in attending during the spring semester. August 2018: Move-In Dateand Helping Students Move - We asked parents and family members how early their students moved into the residence halls and if they helped their students during move-in. June 2018: Family Weekend Football Tickets - We asked parents and family members who attended Family Weekend in the past if they purchased a ticket for their student to sit with them. May 2018: Post-Graduation Plans - We asked parents and family members if their student had plans after graduating in May. April 2018: Challenging Conversations - We asked parents and family members what topics of conversation were most challenging to discuss with their students. March 2018: Communicating with Your Student - We asked parents and family members how often they communicate with their students. February 2018: Print v. Electronic information - We asked parents and family members which format they prefer to receive and access information from Texas Tech. January 2018: Parent and Family Relations Website - We asked parents and family members what information they look for when visiting our website. 2017 Pulse Polls December 2017: Assisting Your Student - We asked parents and family members which topic their student(s) sought the most assistance with. November 2017: Tutoring Services - We asked parents and family members which tutoring services their students use most. September 2017: Social Media - We asked parents and family members which social media platforms they access most frequently. August 2017: Textbooks - We asked parents and family members what resources their student(s) used to gain access to textbooks. July 2017: Summer Plans - We asked parents and family members what their student's summer plans were. June 2017: Healthcare - We asked parents and family members about the healthcare options their students utilized. May 2017: Graduation and Career Preparedness - We asked parents and family members if their student was graduating and if they had used the TTU Career Center. January 2017: Academic Progress - We asked parents and family members how their student(s) shared their academic progress. 2016 Pulse Polls December 2016: Final Exams - We asked parents and family members if they felt their student was prepared for final exams. November 2016: Website - We asked parents and family members how often they visited the Parent and Family Relations website. October 2016: Spending Money - We asked parents and family members how much spending money they gave their students each month. September 2016: Family Weekend - We asked parents and family members if they planned to attend Family Weekend. August 2016: Red Raider Orientation - We asked parents and family members if they attended RRO with their students. July 2016: Fraternity and Sorority Life - We asked parents and family members if they would be in support of their student joining a Fraternity or Sorority. June 2016: Vehicles - We asked parents and family members if their student would have a vehicle on campus during the fall semester. May 2016: Living Arrangements - We asked parents and family members where their student planned to live the following year. April 2016: Social Media - We asked parents and family members which social media platforms they access. March 2016:Care Packages - We asked parents and family members is they send care packages to their student during the semester. February 2016: Visiting Students - We asked parents and family members how often they visit their student. January 2016: Study Abroad - We asked parents and family members if their student has studied abroad or if they are planning to study abroad. 2015 Pulse Polls October 2015: Student Involvement - We asked parents and family members about the number and type of student organizations their students were involved in as well as concerns they had about student involvement. August 2015: Transportation - We asked parents and family members if their students were bringing a car to campus and what their Thanksgiving transportation plans were. Summer 2015: Move-In Plans - We asked parents and family members about their students' move-in plans for Fall 2015 and about any concerns they had about move-in. May 2015: End of Semester/Summer Concerns - We asked parents and family members what concerns they have at the end of the spring semester/beginning of summer. April 2015: Career Readiness - We asked parents and family members what their student has done to prepare for his/her career. March 2015: Difficult Conversations - We asked parents and family members what topics they find most difficult to discuss with their student. February 2015: Sources of Information - We asked parents and family members what sources of information they use the most. 2014 Pulse Polls November 2014: Campus Resources Used - We asked parents and family members what campus resources their students have utilized. October 2014: Students' Holiday Plans - We asked parents and family members about what their students would be doing during the holidays. Starting the Fall Semester - Parents and family members share common parent and student concerns about the beginning of the semester. Summer 2014: Fall Move-in - Parents and family members share fall move-in plans and concerns. May 2014: Students' summer plans - We asked parents and family members what their students would be doing this summer. April 2014: Supporting your students - We asked parents and family members about the different ways they support their Texas Tech students. March 2014: Spring Break Plans - We asked parents and family members about their students' Spring Break plans and any concerns they had related to their students' participation in Spring Break. February 2014: Sources of Stress - We asked parents and family members about various sources of stress for them and their student. January 2014: Study Abroad - We asked parents and family members about their thoughts on Study Abroad opportunities for their student. 2013 Pulse Polls December 2013: TTU Depts Contacted- We asked parents and family members what Texas Tech departments they contacted for assistance. November 2013: Parent-Student Communication- We asked parents and family members what methods of communication they used with their students and how often they communicated. Parent and Family Relations Like Parent and Family Relations on FacebookLike Parent and Family Relations on Facebook Follow Parent and Family Relations on twitterFollow Parent and Family Relations on twitter Subscribe to Parent and Family Relations on YouTubeSubscribe to Parent and Family Relations on YouTube Follow Parent and Family Relations on InstagramFollow Parent and Family Relations on Instagram Address 201Q Student Union Building, Box 42024, Lubbock, Texas 79409-2024 Phone 806.742.3630 Email parent@ttu.edu Texas Tech University 2500 Broadway Lubbock, Texas 79409 806.742.2011 Follow Texas Tech University Like Texas Tech University on FacebookLike Texas Tech University on Facebook Follow Texas Tech University on twitterFollow Texas Tech University on twitter Check in with Texas Tech University on FourSquareCheck in with Texas Tech University on FourSquare Subscribe to Texas Tech University on YouTubeSubscribe to Texas Tech University on YouTube Follow Texas Tech University on FlickrFollow Texas Tech University on Flickr Follow Texas Tech University on InstagramFollow Texas Tech University on Instagram Connect with Texas Tech University on LinkedInConnect with Texas Tech University on LinkedIn Contact Texas Tech UniversityContact Texas Tech University Contact Us Campus Map Jobs @ TTU Emergency Communication Center General Policy Information Public Access to Course Info Energy Management Mental Health Resources Title IX Fraud and Misconduct Hotline Online Institutional Resumes TTU System TTU Health Sciences Center TTUHSC El Paso Angelo State University Midwestern State University Statewide Search State of Texas Texas Homeland Security Texas Veterans Portal Texas CREWS SAO Fraud Reporting Open Records Requests © 2022 Texas Tech University May 26, 2022 11:43 AM Parent and Family Relations Meet Our Staff/Contact Us Programs & Events Parent and Family Relations Programs & Events Back Family Weekend/Family Days Sibling Saturday Webinar Series Holiday Bus Trips Red Raider Orientation Parent & Family Relations Think Tank Resources for Parents and Families Parent and Family Relations Resources for Parents and Families Back Resources for Parents and Families Student Safety and Wellness Parents and Family Member of High School Students eNewletters & Publications How to Get Involved! Texas Tech Parents Association Información en español Parent and Family Relations Información en español Back ¡BIENVENIDOS, PADRES Y FAMILIAS! Ver esta pagina en español La guía del padres y la familia Lubbock, TX Parent and Family Relations Lubbock, TX Back City of Lubbock Hotel Accommodations Weather Visit Lubbock Map of Lubbock Additional Resources TTU HomeDirectory Raiderlink A-Z Index