CUMC Human Resources HOME | CONTACT US | MAPS & DIRECTIONS Benefits Employment Learning & Development Events Policies Union Contracts Working at CUIMC Forms & Documents CUHR CUMC HR Working at CUMC General Information Benefits Overview Job Opportunities About CUMC Campus Information Education Policies & Procedures Anti-Racism Resources Rewards and Recognition Publications Shared Research Facilities Libraries Research: Grant and Funding Support IT Support - CUMC-IT Support Network & Helpful Links Employee Discounts Travel to CUMC Contact US Sr HR Business Partners by Department Columbia University HR Employment Getting Started New Officers and Support Staff Checklist Schedule an appointment to complete form I-9 Section 2 Epic Together - Requesting CWIDs, Epic Training, and Epic Access for ColumbiaDoctors and Service Corps COVID-19 Campus Resource Guide - Updated March 2022 Campus Safety Procedures for Newly Hired / Returning Faculty and Staff - Updated March 2022 COVID Testing Procedures for New Hires Spreadsheet to Add COVID Testing for New Hires Welcome Program Orientation is a timely opportunity for all new Faculty and Staff to explore life and resources at Columbia, as well as to learn about the benefits that suit your personal needs. This program is a helpful way to start employment on the right informational track. It is strongly recommended that new hires attend within the first 30 days of being hired, as close to their first day of work as possible. Please be advised that seating is limited. To be assured of a seat, you must arrive by the scheduled start time. Refreshments are served. Managers can register their new hires for one of our upcoming sessions by clicking on the Welcome Program Registration Form link below. Medical Surveillance Columbia University Medical Center (CUMC), in its commitment to the health and safety of its personnel and visitors, has established a medical surveillance program to address work place hazards including exposure to biological, chemical and physical agents. The medical surveillance program includes healthcare workers who are at risk of acquiring and/or transmitting communicable diseases to patients, visitors and colleagues because of their exposure in the workplace. The program provides for an assessment of health risks associated with certain positions and a determination of appropriate medical testing and recommended vaccines. Medical surveillance will be required of certain positions, and additionally in certain cases, mandatory testing, immunization or other preventive procedures may be required. Medical surveillance will be performed in the Workforce Health & Safety (WHS) at the time of hire or transfer into a position with such hazards and periodically as required. Medical Surveillance clearance is a requirement for all those working in NYP space and fall under the Joint Commission requirement prior to their start date. There is no cost to the employee for this service. If your position requires medical surveillance, your manager will notify and schedule you for an appointment. For the full policy, please click here. For Managers Welcome Program and Medical Surveillance Registration Forms (Please login using your Columbia UNI) The Welcome Program and Medical Surveillance Registration forms close every Friday at noon. Please check back on Monday to submit your form. Thank you. Administrative Hiring Guide/ Applicant Pool Report Posting Positions on TalentLink Guide to Casual/Temp Hiring SkillSurvey Pre-Hire 360 CUMC HR UNI System (Assists managers in obtaining a Columbia UNI for their newly hired staff. Click for information.) Location & Hours CUMC Human Resources 617 West 168th Street New York, NY 10032 (212) 305-3819 Phone (212) 305-5728 Fax cumchr@cumc.columbia.edu Monday -Friday, 9 a.m. - 5 p.m. Faculty & Officers New Employees Training Policies & Procedures Benefits Holiday Schedule Forms Time & Attendance Support Staff New Employees Training Policies & Procedures Benefits Holiday Schedule Forms Time & Attendance For Managers Training Policies & Procedures Forms