Skip to main content Temple University Explore Temple’s Schools and Colleges Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Support Temple Temple University Search Site Search Full Menu Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees President History & Traditions Temple Health News & Media Offices Public Information Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Development Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Libraries Engineering MENG You are here Home Academics Degrees and Programs Engineering MENG Apply Request More Info Engineering MENG Admissions Careers, Internships & Opportunities Research & Facilities Scholarships & Financial Aid Master of Engineering MEng Gain the technical expertise and business acumen necessary to meet the demands of the ever-evolving engineering industry with a Master of Engineering MEng in Temple University’s College of Engineering. This 30-credit master's program provides flexibility and customization for working engineers interested in advancing in their organizations and beyond. The College of Engineering's cross-disciplinary approach to career development combines in-demand technology training with project management skills to innovate and lead. Tailor your learning goals to best meet your professional needs with this practice-oriented master's program. Engineering as a discipline can be very broad and include a wide range of specialized fields, each requiring a unique set of skills and technologies. Niche fields of study include cybersecurity, new product development, project management, and/or advanced manufacturing and robotics. Possible learning outcomes include the following. Gain advanced knowledge in hardware and device security concepts, technology, and methodology for engineered resilient systems. Understand current management and innovation tools to conceptualize, develop and bring to market valuable new products and services in the context of an existing organization. Learn to use project management tools to effectively plan and execute projects. Gain technical skills in mechanical engineering, automation and robotics to conceive, design and execute advanced manufacturing technologies. Complete three certificates of nine credits each along with a capstone project to earn the Master of Engineering MEng. Students propose an individual capstone project to address a current or future industry need while integrating the technical aptitude and leadership skills gained throughout the program. Master of Engineering MEng vs. Engineering Management MS While both programs create a pathway to career advancement, they are unique in scope. Temple’s Master of Engineering MEng online program is customizable, allowing students to choose what they learn. It focuses on understanding and innovating industrial processes and teaches students to address specific needs within various niche sectors of the field. The Master of Science in Engineering Management combines coursework from the College of Engineering and the Fox School of Business in a hybrid of online and in-person instruction. The MS program is grounded in research and combines an in-depth understanding of engineering theory with the tools of an entrepreneur. Program Format & Curriculum This innovative approach to advanced learning and career development allows you the flexibility to select your course of study. Classes are held online and in the evenings to accommodate working schedules and can be completed in 10 semesters. The 30-credit program comprises exams, group projects, individual assignments and online discussion forums. Students complete three certificates consisting of nine credits each along with a culminating capstone project. The certificates currently available from the College of Engineering include the following. Advanced Manufacturing/Robotics Computer and Systems Security Engineering Project Management New Product Development Some of the classes that are required for the program include the following. Engineering Principles of Computer Intrusion and Detection Introduction to Communication Networks Management Principles for Innovators, Engineers and Technologists Project Management—Project Planning, Implementation and Case Study Learn more about the Master of Engineering MEng courses. Related Graduate Degrees The College of Engineering offers 12 graduate degrees and seven certificate programs for both the full-time student and working professional. The following degree programs provide cross-disciplinary curriculum, rigorous technical training, research opportunities and career development. Bioengineering PhD Bioengineering MS Civil Engineering MS Civil Engineering PhD Electrical Engineering MS Electrical Engineering PhD Engineering Management MS Environmental Engineering MS Environmental Engineering PhD Mechanical Engineering MS Mechanical Engineering PhD Tuition & Fees In keeping with Temple’s commitment to access and affordability, this Master of Engineering offers a competitive level of tuition with multiple opportunities for financial support. Tuition rates are set annually by the university and are affected by multiple factors, including program degree level (undergraduate or graduate), course load (full- or part-time), in-state or out-of-state residency, and more. These tuition costs apply to the 2021–2022 academic year. Pennsylvania resident: $1,184.00 per credit Out-of-state: $1,546.00 per credit Learn more about our tuition and fees. Our Advisors A faculty advisor will guide you in navigating the curriculum and selecting the appropriate coursework to achieve your academic and professional goals. A graduate student advisor will also be available to help you with scheduling, policies and procedures to assure your smooth passage through the program. Program Contact For more information about the Master of Engineering MEng, contact the following staff member. Thomas Edwards is an associate professor of instruction in the College of Engineering. Phone: 215-450-8822 Email: tve@temple.edu Student Clubs & Organizations Expand your social network and explore professional opportunities by joining a student professional organization or club. Learn more about Temple’s engineering clubs and organizations. EN-ENGR-MENG Additional Program Information Available online. Visit College Site View Program Details Go back to AcademicsMore in Engineering MENG Admissions Careers, Internships & Opportunities Research & Facilities Scholarships & Financial Aid Apply Request More Info Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Calendar Policies Social Media TUportal TUmail Accessibility Careers at Temple Safety & Emergency Information Ethics & Compliance Privacy Statement Professional Licensure Disclosures Follow Temple University Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community. Apply Request More Info