Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Division of Student Affairs Student Affairs Information For Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff Search BC.edu Links Robsham Theater Menu Main Nav Robsham Theater Arts Center Robsham Box Office Back Back Close About Overview Meet Our Staff Visitor Information Student Employment Venues Overview Robsham Main Stage Bonn Studio Theater Brighton Dance Studios 300 Hammond Pond Parkway Robsham Box Office Robsham Box Office Close Directory A to Z Listing Search Division of Student Affairs Search BC.edu Find pages or people Search Close Close Apply Visit Give Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close Robsham Main Stage Home Venues Robsham Main Stage Venues Robsham Main Stage Bonn Studio Theater Brighton Dance Studios 300 Hammond Pond Parkway The Robsham Theater Arts Center’s premier event space is the Robsham Main Stage, located on Boston College’s lower campus. The Robsham Main Stage is a large proscenium-style theater that is the ideal place for mid- to large-size performances. It is equipped with professional lighting and sound systems, custom draperies and backdrops and its own Box Office. The Robsham Main Stage has hosted a variety of dance, music, and theater performances, as well as classes, lectures, movies, and comedians. Past individuals who have presented or performed on the Robsham Main Stage include: Bob Hope, Madeleine Albright, Kal Penn, George Takei, Tom Brokaw, Ken Burns, Don Henley, David McCollough, Cardinal O’Malley, Coretta Scott King (wife of Martin Luther King Jr.), President Benigno Aquino (of the Philippines), Livingston Taylor, Iron and Wine and Ellis Paul. Recent theatrical runs held in the theater include “The Tempest,” “Carousel,” “Big Love,” “Trojan Women,” and “A Funny Thing Happened on the Way to the Forum.” Robsham also plays host to a diverse array of student cultural events, academic lectures, and other high-level events such as convocation, commencement ceremonies, and homecoming activities. The capacity of Robsham Main Stage is 567, which includes wheelchair and wheelchair companion spaces as well as limited mobility seats located throughout the venue. The theater is also equipped with wireless hearing assistance devices that are available from the House Manager/Box Office upon request. If you have any questions about the Robsham Main Stage, including how to reserve the space, please see the link to the Venue Information Packet (VIP) listed below. If you would prefer this PDF as an emailed text or have any other questions, please notify us at rtac.operations@bc.edu and we will be happy to help. Thank you. Download a copy of the Robsham Main Stage Venue Information Packet. Back To Top Back To Top Robsham Theater Arts Center Boston College 617-552-4800 About Venues Box Office Connect with us Facebook Twitter Division of Student Affairs Division of Student Affairs BAIC BC Bands Business Service Center Career Center Counseling Services Graduate Student Life Health Promotion Health Services Residential Life Robsham Theater Student Conduct Student Involvement Student Outreach & Support Women’s Center Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College