Skip to main content Toggle subitems Main navigation Meet Princeton Toggle sub-items In Service of Humanity Facts & Figures History Honors & Awards Contact Us Visit Us Our Faculty Our Students Our Alumni Our Staff Our Leadership Academic Freedom and Free Expression Academics Toggle sub-items Studying at Princeton Library Areas of Study Humanities Social Sciences Engineering Natural Sciences Advising Academic Calendar Course Tools Learning Abroad Career Development Continuing Education Innovative Learning Research Toggle sub-items Engineering & Applied Science Humanities Natural Sciences Social Sciences Interdisciplinary Approach Dean for Research Office External Partnerships Facilities & Labs One Community Toggle sub-items Lifelong Connections Student Life Arts & Culture Athletics Living in Princeton, N.J. Housing & Dining Activities & Organizations Cultural & Affinity Groups Health & Wellness Religious Life Serving the Public Good Families Admission & Aid Toggle sub-items Affordable for All About Financial Aid Current Undergraduate Financial Aid Undergraduate Admission Graduate Admission For International Students Utility menu News Events Work at Princeton Services & Resources Work-Life Balance Links for Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Giving Search Sites & People × Share on Facebook Share on Twitter Share on LinkedIn Email Print Senior thesis: Exploring the emergence of Cuban consumerism by Michael Hotchkiss, Office of Communications May 12, 2016, noon Sociology major Dennisse Calle spent two weeks interviewing more than 50 people in Cuba for her senior thesis on the societal impact of El Paquete — a weekly, one terabyte compilation of popular TV shows, movies, music and more that serves as an offline Netflix, YouTube, Craigslist and more in a country where Internet access is slow and expensive. The senior thesis: Quintessentially Princeton Inspired by learning experiences both in and out of the classroom — around campus and across the globe — all Princeton undergraduates tackle a monumental academic challenge by completing a senior thesis. The thesis, considered the capstone of Princeton students' academic journey, is an independent work that requires seniors to pursue original research and scholarship under the guidance of faculty advisers. Dennisse Calle found the topic for her senior thesis along a Havana street, in the back of a stall that sells pirated movies and music. Cubans pay the equivalent of a few dollars, insert a flash drive into the computer at the back of the stall, and get access to El Paquete — a weekly, one terabyte compilation of popular TV shows, movies, music, computer and phone apps, and advertisements that serves as an offline Netflix, YouTube, Craigslist and more in a country where Internet access is slow and expensive. Calle, a sociology major at Princeton University, spent two weeks doing research in Cuba during January and interviewed 50 users and distributors of El Paquete — which means "The Package" — to learn about the service and the way it fits into the lives of everyday Cubans. "I focus on how El Paquete is transforming how people view themselves as consumers," Calle said. "This is one of the first forms of consumer culture that is being normalized in Cuba, in part because it's cheap and easy to pass around." Sociology major Dennisse Calle spent two weeks interviewing more than 50 people in Cuba for her senior thesis on the societal impact of El Paquete — a weekly, one terabyte compilation of popular TV shows, movies, music and more that serves as an offline Netflix, YouTube, Craigslist and more in a country where Internet access is slow and expensive. (Photo by Denise Applewhite, Office of Communications) The origins of El Paquete, which began around 2008, are unclear, as is the identity of the people behind it. El Paquete is widely available — either distributed door to door using a portable hard drive or from central locations like the stall where Calle discovered it — despite existing in a sort of legal gray area in Cuba. It offers an alternative to state-controlled Cuban television, which offers only 10 channels of news and sedate fare to most residents. "I think in many ways El Paquete is a new form of capitalism," Calle said. "People are buying it and consuming it and becoming addicted to it. This is very capitalistic and modern. At the same time, sharing information is still very much part of a socialist mentality." El Paquete is often distributed through small shops like this one in Havana, which also sells pirated movies and TV shows. (Photo by Dennisse Calle, Class of 2016) In her thesis, titled "El Paquete: A qualitative study of Cuba's Transition from Socialism to Quasi-Capitalism," Calle examined El Paquete and its impact in several ways. First, she analyzed what type of content is included, where it originated, as well as advertising that is added in Cuba. Many of the TV shows and movies — generally subtitled in Spanish — come from the United States, along with the United Kingdom and Spain. Competition shows such as "The Voice" and "Cake Wars" are popular, as are South Korean soap operas. Calle also explored the hierarchy of El Paquete, from the unknown compilers who collect the pirated content, to the packagers who put it together and insert local content that varies across the country, to the distributors who sell it to everyday Cubans. Beyond the paid distribution, Calle said, Cubans often share the content with family members and friends. She also looked beyond the content to explore how El Paquete is changing the way people see themselves. "I think it's reflective of what's happening in Cuba, moving from a state that is very controlling to one that is allowing capitalism to emerge into the nation and its culture," she said. El Paquete is so popular, in part, because it can be easily downloaded from a computer onto a USB drive or a portable hard drive like the ones seen here. (Photo by Dennisse Calle, Class of 2016) Calle's research and analysis are impressive, said her adviser, Patricia Fernandez-Kelly, a lecturer in sociology. "The result is a very detailed understanding of how people are changing their perspectives and self-definitions," Fernandez-Kelly said. "It's really a study about identity, but not just personal identity but national identity." Calle, who is originally from Ecuador and moved to Trenton, New Jersey, did her junior independent work on bachata, a style of music that came to the United States from the Dominican Republic with immigrants, and how its portrayal of women has changed as it has evolved over time. Studying El Paquete offered a similar way to explore cultural phenomena through media, she said. "I'm fascinated by media and the new ideas that media exposes us to," Calle said. Calle said her senior thesis has allowed her to put into practice many of the theories and techniques she has studied at Princeton. "As a sociology major, the work I'm doing on my thesis has allowed me to grow and think as a researcher," she said. "It allowed me to think critically about studying people and other things in a way that pushes me. My thesis has also led me to really consider graduate school for sociology, which wasn't something I was seriously thinking about before." Calle's research took her across Havana, including interviews in the homes of El Paquete users and along the route of a distributor. (Photo by Dennisse Calle, Class of 2016) Calle, who studied in Cuba for a semester during the winter of 2015, said her research trip in January was both grueling and gratifying. "Before going I had all these theories about what people were thinking but it was so important to talk to them," she said. "I think the research I did during my two weeks in Cuba exposed me more to Cuban life than even my semester studying there because I was going to people's homes and jobs and spending time with them. I was really entering life in Cuba." Fernandez-Kelly said her thesis project reflects Calle's approach to everything. "Dennisse is very energetic and kind of audacious in that nothing really stops her," Fernandez-Kelly said. "She gets an idea and she implements it." What's ahead for El Paquete in Cuba, which has been working to ease tensions with the United States? Calle predicts El Paquete will survive even if Cubans gain broader access to the Internet — in part because it is so inexpensive and easily shared. A recent thaw in relations between the United States and Cuba make El Paquete's future unclear. (Illustration by Maggie Westergaard, Office of Communications) Related Stories In living color: Juxtaposing Havana, old and new Read more Students see Cuba with new eyes during semester abroad Read more Students learn the fundamentals behind the networked life Read more Gallo and Katz: Perspectives on restoring relations with Cuba Read more Q&A: Casting light on the Internet's shadows (and shadowing) Read more Price explores Cuban literature and culture in 'Planet/Cuba' Read more From cash flow to rhyme flow: Music scholar Manabe takes eclectic path to Princeton Read more View All News Contact links Contact Us Accessibility Advanced People Search Media Inquiries Website Feedback Visiting links Plan a Visit Maps & Shuttles Varsity Athletics Giving to Princeton Academic links Library Academic Calendar Student Links Faculty & Staff Links Footer social media Facebook Twitter Instagram Snapchat LinkedIn YouTube Social Media Directory Equal Opportunity and Nondiscrimination at Princeton University: Princeton University believes that commitment to principles of fairness and respect for all is favorable to the free and open exchange of ideas, and the University seeks to reach out as widely as possible in order to attract the ablest individuals as students, faculty, and staff. In applying this policy, the University is committed to nondiscrimination on the basis of personal beliefs or characteristics such as political views, religion, national or ethnic origin, race, color, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity or expression, pregnancy, age, marital or domestic partnership status, veteran status, disability, genetic information and/or other characteristics protected by applicable law in any phase of its education or employment programs or activities. In addition, pursuant to Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 and supporting regulations, Princeton does not discriminate on the basis of sex in the education programs or activities that it operates; this extends to admission and employment. Inquiries about the application of Title IX and its supporting regulations may be directed to the Assistant Secretary for Civil Rights, Office for Civil Rights, U.S. Department of Education or to the University's Sexual Misconduct/Title IX Coordinator. See Princeton’s full Equal Opportunity Policy and Nondiscrimination Statement. Princeton University Princeton, NJ 08544 Operator: (609) 258-3000 © 2022 The Trustees of Princeton University Subfooter links Copyright Infringement Privacy Notice