Bioengineering Academics Undergraduate Master’s Doctoral Research Areas of Focus Centers + Institutes Labs + Facilities Featured Research Undergraduate Research People Faculty Students Alumni Staff Graduate Group Post-docs Open Faculty Positions Community Diversity and Inclusion Outreach Mission Local Programs Global Programs About Why Penn Bioengineering? Fast Facts News Bioengineering Blog Penn Engineering Blog Seminars + Events Visiting BE Apply Make a Gift Search Current Students Faculty Staff Alumni Current Students Faculty Staff Alumni Apply Make a Gift Search Bioengineering A Department of the School of Engineering and Applied Science Academics Undergraduate Master’s Doctoral Research Areas of Focus Centers + Institutes Labs + Facilities Featured Research Undergraduate Research People Faculty Students Alumni Staff Graduate Group Post-docs Open Faculty Positions Community Diversity and Inclusion Outreach Mission Local Programs Global Programs About Why Penn Bioengineering? Fast Facts News Bioengineering Blog Penn Engineering Blog Seminars + Events Visiting BE In the laboratory of Dan Huh, Wilf Family Term Assistant Professor in Bioengineering, research using tissue modeling has led the team to send their lung-on-a-chip to the International Space Station to study infections in a microgravity environment. Read More Featured Stories Penn Bioengineering Junior Shreya Parchure Named Goldwater Scholar Shreya Parchure is one of four juniors at the University of Pennsylvania who have been selected as Goldwater Scholars by the Barry Goldwater Scholarship & Excellence in Education Foundation, which provides scholarships of as much as $7,500 to undergraduate students interested in pursuing research careers in the natural sciences, mathematics, or engineering. Read More A Record 15 BE Students Receive 2020 NSF Graduate Research Fellowships The Department of Bioengineering at Penn is incredibly proud of its fifteen current and future graduate student recipients of the 2020 National Science Foundation Graduate Research Fellowship Program (NSF GRFP). The prestigious NSF GRFP program recognizes and supports outstanding graduate students in NSF-supported fields. Continue reading for a list of 2020 recipients and descriptions of their research. READ MORE Danielle Bassett Among Science’s ‘Favorite Photos of 2019’ Danielle Bassett, J. Peter Skirkanich Professor in the Department of Bioengineering, poses underneath a giant visualization of the brain’s structural connections, projected on the wall behind her. Bassett’s research combines elements of physics, mathematics, engineering and neuroscience to provide a new look at how brain function arises from these networks of neurons. Read More How the Bioengineering Department’s Bio-MakerSpace Became a Hub for Start-Ups The George H. Stephenson Foundation Educational Laboratory and Bio-MakerSpace, more commonly known as the Bio-MakerSpace, has recently become a hub for Penn student start-ups that continue after graduation. Beyond offering a home base for projects by Bioengineering majors, the lab is also open to Penn students, regardless of major. Unlike other departmental undergraduate labs, the Bio-MakerSpace encourages interdisciplinary projects and collaborations from students across all different majors. Read More Penn Nanoparticles are Less Toxic to T Cells Engineered for Cancer Immunotherapy Penn researchers, led by Michael Mitchell, Skirkanich Assistant Professor of Innovation of Bioengineering in the School of Engineering and Applied Science and Margaret Billingsley, a graduate student in his lab, have demonstrated a new engineering technique that, because it is less toxic to the T cells, could enable a different mechanism for altering the way they recognize cancer, and could have fewer side effects for patients. Read More Alex Hughes Receives the First MIRA Award of Penn SEAS We would like to congratulate Assistant Professor in Bioengineering Alex Hughes, Ph.D., on receiving the Maximizing Investigators’ Research Award (MIRA) from the National Institutes of Health (NIH), which funds investigators to create flexible and forward-thinking research programs. Hughes is the first recipient of this award in Penn’s School of Engineering and Applied Science, marking a major accomplishment for him and his lab. Read More BE News Center for Engineering Mechanobiology 2.0: Developing ‘Mechanointelligence’ 05.22.2022 | Read More Penn Engineers Develop a New Method that Could Enable a Patient’s Own Antibodies to Eliminate Their Tumors 05.20.2022 | Read More Congratulations to the Penn Engineering Graduates of 2022! 05.19.2022 | Read More View More BE Events BE Doctoral Dissertation Defense: “Application of Functional Near-Infrared Spectroscopy to Examine the Neurophysiology of the Injured Adolescent Brain” (Divya Jain) Event Details PSOC@Penn Talk: “Lectin-glycan affinity in nanobio theragnostics: The specific capture of pancreatic cancer exosomes and the targeted therapy of tumor cells” (Jonghoon Choi) Event Details BE Doctoral Dissertation Defense: “Experimental and computational analyses of locomotor rhythm generation and modulation in Caenorhabditis elegans” (Hongfei Ji) Event Details View More Announcement Penn Engineering COVID-19 Information Visit this page to get information for visitors, students, faculty and staff related to Penn Engineering's response to the coronavirus pandemic. View Page Why Penn Bioengineering? Welcome to Penn, home to one of the oldest and most successful bioengineering departments in the United States. Our undergraduate and graduate programs consistently rate among the top 10 in the country. Bioengineering capitalizes on Penn’s great institutional strengths, including a compact urban campus of 12 separate schools, geographic proximity linking the engineering and medical schools within one city block, and a collaborative, integrated environment. Penn Bioengineering endorses the University’s commitment to diversity outlined in the Penn Compact 2020. We strive to attract a diverse community of students, faculty and staff in order to provide an accessible, rigorous engineering education for our students, and to improve our local and global communities through engineering education and research. Read More Learn More Quick Actions Find a Person Find a building Visit Penn Engineering Report computing issues (CETS) Report facilities issues (EOS) Student health and safety concerns Contact Penn Public Safety (DPS) PENN ENGINEERING ©2017 | UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA |SCHOOL OF ENGINEERING AND APPLIED SCIENCE | DEPARTMENT OF BIOENGINEERING | 210 South 33rd Street | Suite 240 Skirkanich Hall | Philadelphia, PA 19104-6321 | 215-898-8501 Contact us with questions about admissions or academic programs | For website issues, email the webmaster Report accessibility issues and get help PENN ENGINEERING ©2017 UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA SCHOOL OF ENGINEERING AND APPLIED SCIENCE DEPARTMENT OF BIOENGINEERING 210 South 33rd Street | Suite 240 Skirkanich Hall | Philadelphia, PA 19104-6321 | 215-898-8501 Contact us with questions about admissions or academic programs | For website issues, email the webmaster Report accessibility issues and get help