Skip navigation Find: A to Z Index People Directory Learn More: About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life Information For: Current Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Information For: Current Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Brown University Biology Undergraduate Education Site Navigation Home Contact People Advising & Declarations Concentrations Biology for First-Years Courses BIOL 0200 Replacement | AP/IB Transfer Credit Writing Requirement Research Maria L. Caleel '87 Memorial Undergraduate Biology Research Fellowship Honors Diversity and Inclusion Peer Advising Curricular Resources Senior Prizes After Brown Employment Opportunities News & Facebook Print this Page Share this Page Arnold Laboratory Brown University Box GA-124 91 Waterman St Providence, RI 02912 Phone 401-863-3133 Fax 401-863-7411 Stay Connected with Biology Undergraduate Education Brown About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life A to Z Index People Directory m.Brown.edu News Events Visit Campus Life Map Directory Brown Apps Safety About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life A to Z Index People Directory Biology Undergraduate Education Home Advising & Declarations Advising & Declarations Advising & Declarations ADVISING APPOINTMENT CALENDAR View only calendar for advisees of Dean Smith. At this time, all appointments with Dean Katherine Smith must be made directly with Scott Rathbun via email. All other advisor appointments can be self-selected by clicking on the large "Advising Appointment Calendar" link above Overview The Academic Advisors in the Office of Biology Undergraduate Education are available to advise and assist students in all of the Biology concentrations – from undeclared first-year students to seniors searching for research opportunities. Students interested in concentrating in Applied Mathematics-Biology, Biochemistry, Biophysics, Computational Biology, Biomedical Engineering or Neuroscience should contact the faculty advisors listed with those specific concentrations at the Concentrations page. Declaring the Concentration in Sophomore Year How to Schedule an Advising Appointment Students are able to schedule thier own appointments with a BUE Academic Advisor. Here is how: 1. Click on the Advising Calendar link. Look for openings with an Academic Advisor on the date and time you hope to meet. Open appointments can be selected by clicking on the 30min block. 2. Please provide your name and the general purpose of the meeting Students who have difficulty can email Scott Rathbun with any questions. Here is a list of our Academic Advisors and their areas of interest: Toni-Marie Achilli - Biology AB and ScB Jody Hall – Health & Human Biology and Biology AB and ScB Andrea Sobieraj - Biology AB and ScB Sarah Taylor - Health & Human Biology and Biology AB and ScB Sophomores interested in declaring a concentration in Biology (ScB or AB) should schedule a pre-planning meeting in advance of the declaration period. Students can view and sign up for a pre-planning meeting via the BUE advising calendar. Pre-planning meetings begin in October. Sophomores interested in declaring a concentration in Health & Human Biology (HHB) AB should schedule a pre-planning meeting in advance of the declaration period. Students can view and sign up for a pre-planning meeting via the BUE advising calendar. Pre-planning meetings begin in October. Pre-planning meetings are an opportunity for students to discuss their interests in and outside of the classroom, and to learn more about opportunities in Biology. Pre-planning also provides an opportunity for Dean Achilli and the Academic Advisors to identify the best concentration advisor for a student. The Concentration Advisor After pre-planning, students are assigned a concentration advisor. Students are expected to make an appointment with the advisor early to draft a declaration plan for the concentration. Students should recognize that the declaration is a draft plan subject to revision with the concentration advisor's approval. The best advising relationships happen when communication is regular and forthright. Students should take the initiative to meet with their concentration advisor each semester and ensure the ASK declaration plan up-to-date. Biology Department Undergraduate Group (DUG) Biology works with the Dean of the College to support Departmental Undergraduate Groups (DUGs). Biology DUGs are concentrators who meet and plan programming to foster a community of students interested in Biology. The current DUG leaders can be found on our People page. DUGs are a great resource for meeting and interacting with peers in a collaborative and advising capacity. Also in Biology Undergraduate Education Site Navigation Home Contact People Advising & Declarations Concentrations Biology for First-Years Courses BIOL 0200 Replacement | AP/IB Transfer Credit Writing Requirement Research Maria L. Caleel '87 Memorial Undergraduate Biology Research Fellowship Honors Diversity and Inclusion Peer Advising Curricular Resources Senior Prizes After Brown Employment Opportunities News & Facebook Print this Page Share this Page Arnold Laboratory Brown University Box GA-124 91 Waterman St Providence, RI 02912 Phone 401-863-3133 Fax 401-863-7411 Stay Connected with Biology Undergraduate Education Resources A to Z Index Career Opportunities Make a Gift People Directory Brown University Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-1000 Maps & Directions / Contact Us © 2022 Brown University Connect: [email protected] Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram iTunes U Google+ LinkedIn RSS Futurity