Skip to main content Skip to primary site menu Skip to primary site search Google Tag Manager Facilities Management FACILITIES MANAGEMENT Show/Hide SERVICES Customer Service FM Partnership Program Operations and Maintenance Heating and Cooling Sold Service Estimates Divisions Planning, Design & Construction Sustainability Event and Conference Real Estate Custodial and Moves More... MAPS Campus Map AED Locations Accessibility Map Space Reports Building List Building Space Download Maps PROJECTS Capital Projects Current Active Projects List Brook Street Residence Halls Churchill House Renovation and Addition Greenhouse Gas Reduction & Decarbonization Project LGBTQ Identity Center Lincoln Field Building Renovation & Addition Lindemann Performing Arts Center Completed Marston Boathouse Renewal Phase 2 Wellness Center & Residence Hall Center for Lacrosse and Soccer GeoChem Infrastructure Renewal John D. Rockefeller, Jr. Library School of Professional Studies Sharpe House Relocation Division of Applied Mathematics Nelson Center for Entrepreneurship 164 Angell Street Renovation Pizzitola Sports Center Friedman Hall Building Renovation John Hay Library 85 Waterman Street Stephen Robert '62 Hall Andrews Commons South Street Landing Barus & Holley, Prince Lab Engineering Research Center Keeney Quad Miller, Metcalf, & Andrews Halls 315 Thayer Jonathan M. Nelson Fitness & Katherine Moran Coleman Aquatics Center Metcalf Research Building Warren Alpert Medical School Brown Stadium Turf Renovation Meehan Auditorium Team Experience Phase I Thermal Efficiency Project Perry & Marty Granoff Center for the Creative Arts Planning Resources Project Delivery Process Project Initiation Organization Delivery Category 1 Category 2 Category 3 Category 4 Turnover Project Management Tools Project Information Management System Benchmarking Dashboard Reporting Decision Matrix Risk Register Schedule Analysis Design Standards Webcams SUSTAINABILITY ABOUT FM Leadership Mission & Values Organizational Chart News Newsletter Announcements Hours of Operation Directions FM PORTAL Planon FM Reportal Other Apps Meridian BEE FM Web Reports Floor Plans Dorm Floor Plans Planon FM IT FM Maps Admin Maps URL Builder Active Building List Internal Memos Suggestion Box COVID-19 COVID FAQs COVID Cleaning FAQs Disinfectant Cleaner FAQs Portable Air Cleaner FAQs Toilet Seat Cover FAQs Touchless Campus FAQs FM Partnerships HVAC & Water Systems FAQs HVAC Building Narratives Building Ventilation Matrix Frequently Asked Questions - Cleaning & Disinfection What is Facilities Management Custodial Services doing in response to the COVID-19 pandemic? Per CDC guidance, Custodial Services is continuing routine cleaning and disinfection, using EPA-approved disinfectants against COVID-19. Brown custodial managers have extensive industry knowledge and experience. In response to the H1N1 pandemic in 2009, Custodial Services put a number of enhanced cleaning protocols in place to minimize the spread of that and other viruses. For over a decade, we have put these practices into effect for every cold and flu season. As a result, Brown was well-positioned when the current pandemic reached the United States. We will continue to follow these enhanced protocols throughout the pandemic, as well as other times of heightened risk in the future. What cleaning products is FM Custodial using to protect against COVID-19? Custodians use EPA-approved and CDC-recommended commercial grade chemicals to disinfect surfaces on campus. These products include: Alpha HP Disinfectant Cleaner Triad III Disinfectant Cleaner Oxivir Tb Disinfectant Cleaner Evaclean Purtabs All of the above disinfectants are approved for electrostatic spraying What is my responsibility toward keeping my individual work space clean and sanitized? Students, faculty, and staff are encouraged to keep their personal items (e.g., cell phones, other electronics, etc.) and personal work and living spaces clean. Students, faculty, and staff should use disinfectant wipes to wipe down shared desks, lab equipment, and other shared objects and surfaces before use What should faculty, staff, and students do to clean work equipment that was taken home and will be brought back to campus? Items such as keyboards, laptops, monitors, mouse(s) should be wiped down at home, prior to returning to campus, with an approved EPA-approved non-commercial disinfectant wipe. Staff should follow the labeled instructions on the bottle. FM can furnish a list of non-commercial products that directly cross-reference to the EPA-approved standards upon request. Do I have to use university-issued cleaning products at work or can I bring my own from home? You may not bring your own cleaning products to use at work. You may use your own alcohol based hand sanitizer. Disinfecting cleaning products and hand sanitizer provided by the University have been reviewed by EHS for safety and effectiveness against coronaviruses. How do I know household products are safe and effective? Disinfecting cleaning products and hand sanitizer provided by the University have been reviewed by EHS for safety and effectiveness against coronaviruses. EHS has verified that disinfecting wipes provided do not require the use of personal protective equipment (gloves or eye protection). Caution must be taken with chemicals provided in a spray bottle. Some of these products are commercial grade and do require gloves and/or eye protection. Be sure to follow the instructions on the product label. Product safety information can be found in a Safety Data Sheet (SDS) here. How does FM define common areas and how frequently are they cleaned and disinfected? FM defines common areas as those that are high-visibility, high-use, or high-profile, such as restrooms, entrance lobbies, elevators, or other areas designated to receive focused cleaning efforts at a minimum of once a day. What is the custodial cleaning schedule for my research building? Research buildings are cleaned and disinfected on the following schedule: GeoChem: 3pm – 11pm MacMillan: 3pm – 11pm Barus & Holley: 4am – 12pm & 11pm-7am Prince Engineering Lab: 3pm – 11pm Engineering Research Center: 3pm – 11pm & 11pm-7am BioMed Complex: 4am – 12pm; Floor Care (CARES) 11pm – 7 am Life Sciences Building: 11pm – 7 am 70 Ship: 11pm – 7 am 85 Waterman: 11pm – 7 am Metcalf (Mind Brain): 3pm – 11 pm & 11pm – 7 am Arnold Lab: 3pm – 11 pm MRL: 11pm – 7 am How is FM ensuring that my building is being regularly cleaned and disinfected? FM has created a Daily Cleaning and Disinfecting Supervisor Log utilizing Smart Inspect cleaning software. This log contains a checklist that allows the following: Managers and Supervisors to check off assignments as they are completed, which automatically creates a record of the date/time of inspection. All data will be compiled and reviewable by Senior Management via Smart Inspect dashboard and reports. Documentation complies with RIDOH requirements. What does FM specifically clean in lab spaces? Daily removal of trash and recycling Weekly floor vacuuming Weekly floor washing and disinfection Glass cleaning Restocking hand soap and paper towel products If I need hand soap or paper products refilled in my lab, who should I call? For staff within the BioMed facility and for hand sanitizer only, please contact BioMed Facilities Planning and Operations (FPO) office. For all research staff, to request dispenser refills of soap or paper towels, please call FM’s 24/7 Service Response Center at 401-863-7800, and we will respond to your request. How do I clean and disinfect my lab space? FM Custodial staff does not clean desktops, monitors, telephones, or any personal computing equipment. It is the responsibility of lab occupants and researchers to clean all lab-related equipment, instruments, and electronic equipment. Supplies will be furnished through your Departmental stockroom. Please follow your Departmental processes. For disinfection protocols in your lab spaces, please use what is provided by the University via the stockroom. Follow the manufacturer’s label and ensure the disinfectant is compatible with the surface you are going to disinfect. Wipes and spray may be used; however, wipes are recommended for delicate and electronic equipment. Will each shared public space within a research facility have cleaning materials in them (e.g., break rooms, kitchenettes)? Cleaning products will be supplied in common areas by your department stockroom. Please use established departmental processes to request additional supplies. What is the difference between cleaning and disinfecting? Cleaning is the necessary first step of any disinfection process. Cleaning removes organic matter, salts, and visible soils, all of which interfere with microbial inactivation. The physical action of scrubbing with detergents and surfactants and rinsing with water removes substantial numbers of microorganisms. If a surface is not cleaned first, the success of the disinfection process can be compromised. Removal of all visible inorganic and organic matter can be as critical as the germicidal activity of the disinfecting agent. Should we assume that faculty and students are responsible for disinfecting lab spaces and equipment between classes? Yes, faculty and students are responsible cleaning the above. Do paper towel dispensers use products made with recycled materials? Yes, all dispensers are stocked with Georgia Pacific paper towels made with 100% recycled material. Are construction workers and contractors allowed on campus at this time? Construction companies and contractors have approval from Facilities Management to work on specified projects. These projects have all been through an approval process and are following COVID-19 site-specific plans for the safety of contractors and the public. How often are bathrooms cleaned? Facilities Management custodians clean all bathrooms across campus at least once per day. Higher use bathrooms are also serviced by “floater” custodians and are cleaned at least twice per day. What do custodians clean and what is my department expected to clean? Facilities Management custodians clean and disinfect restrooms and high-touch surfaces in public spaces. Individuals should clean and disinfect frequently touched items in their own work area on a daily basis, including computer and peripherals, phones, desks, tools and other shared equipment. Where do staff/faculty get cleaning supplies? If you need disinfectant wipes for your work area, request supplies from your supervisor. Supervisors may contact FM Service Response at (401)-863-7800 if assistance is needed to obtain supplies. Is it okay to use disinfectant wipes intended for surfaces to clean my hands? Unless clearly indicated in the instructions provided by the manufacturer, most cleaning products (including disinfecting wipes) are designed for use on hard surfaces and should not be used to sanitize hands. These products are often formulated with harsher chemicals than similar sanitizing wipe products intended for use on a person and may residue in accidentally wiped into the eyes. Which is better – hand sanitizer or washing with soap and water? The Centers for Disease Control (CDC) advises that the best way to prevent the spread of infections and decrease the risk of getting ill is to wash your hands with plain soap and water. Washing hands often for at least 20 seconds is essential, especially after going to the bathroom, before eating, and after coughing, sneezing, or blow one’s nose. If soap and water are not available, CDC recommends consumers use an alcohol-based hand sanitizer that contains at least 60% ethanol. Are all hand sanitizers the same? If not, which are effective against the virus that causes COVID-19? Alcohol-based hand sanitizers with at least 60% ethanol or isopropyl alcohol are most effective against COVID-19. The CDC or the FDA does not recommend those with any other material listed as the active ingredient for COVID-19 be used. Revision Date: June 28, 2021 Submit Service Request & Event Support Request COVID FAQs COVID Cleaning FAQs Disinfectant Cleaner FAQs Portable Air Cleaner FAQs Toilet Seat Cover FAQs Touchless Campus FAQs FM Partnerships HVAC & Water Systems FAQs HVAC Building Narratives Building Ventilation Matrix Explore Brown University Search Brown Show/Hide Learn More About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life Find A to Z Index People Directory Information for Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Top Destinations Global Brown Watson Institute Graduate School Alpert Medical School School of Public Health School of Engineering Department of Facilities Management Brown University Box 1941 295 Lloyd Ave. Providence, RI 02912 Directions Facility Emergency: Tel: (401) 863-7800 Service Request: Tel: (401) 863-7800 Main Office: Tel: (401) 863-7850 Fax: (401) 863-7885 FM Portal FM Home Maps Feedback Giving to Brown Brown University Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-1000 Maps & Directions / Contact Us © 2022 Brown University Connect: [email protected] Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram iTunes U Google+ LinkedIn SnapChat