COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW Counseling and Prevention Services Section Menu Counseling and Prevention Services Home Learning Disability Assessments Prevention Trainings Community Referrals Counseling Services information Emergency information Group Therapy Services How to make a referral Free Mental Health Screenings Presentation/Table Request Resources Self Help Resources Suicide Prevention and Awareness WCPIP Internship information Counseling and Prevention Services Staff Mental Health and Wellness During COVID-19 Precautions Counseling and Prevention Services News CAPS Video Content Wellness Card Request #WSUWeSupportU Preventing Suicide Training #WSUWeSupportU Advocate Client Documents New clients schedule online your first appointment here.Learn More Counseling Services Prevention Services Crisis Resources Assessments Mental Health Trainings Staff Resources Contact us Counseling and Prevention Services CAPS is Still Here CAPS and #WSUWeSupportU are dedicated to making sure Shockers are heard, seen and understood while Wichita State University and our community take precautions for COVID-19. Counselors are still available to consult via telephone or Zoom to help you develop a self-care plan for your mental health during this crisis, which can be scheduled by calling 316-978-4792. Keep up with what our counselors are doing at @ShockersCAPS on Facebook, Instagram and Twitter. If you are in crisis, reach out to the National Suicide Prevention Lifeline at 1-800-273-8255 or text the Crisis Text Line at 741-741. For emergencies please dial 9-1-1. Stressed, anxious or worried for a friend? Take a Mental Health Screening Learn more about our counseling services Request a Tabling or Presentation Contact Us Student Wellness Center Monday - Friday, 8 am - 5 pm Call us at 316-978-4SWC (4792) @ShockersCAPS Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube First time students can now schedule online! New Client Scheduling Make a Payment Client Documents Counseling and Prevention Services offers: Individual, couples and group therapy Low cost services with licensed providers Prevention Education Psychological, ADHD and learning disability testing Outreach to the WSU community NOTE: If you have a mental health emergency while the Counseling and Testing Center is not open, please call COMCARE Crisis Services at 316-660-7500. Quick Links Self Help Community Referrals WCPIP Staff More from Counseling and Prevention Services Prevention Services Advisory Board The University Prevention Services Advisory Board has been established in an effort to provide education in the area of alcohol/substance abuse, sexual assault and interpersonal violence, and suicide prevention to the campus community. Our hope is to address the prevention, identification, and treatment needs of the Wichita State University students, faculty, and staff. Learn More Counseling Services Need to Talk? Meet with one of our psychologists for individual, couples and group therapy. Call 316-978-4SWC (4792) to make an appointment. Learn More Prevention Trainings The Counseling and Testing Center offers dozens of trainings to help you learn how to help your community. Learn More #WSUWeSupportU Prevention Learn about #WeSupportU, #WSUWeSupportU and Suspenders4Hope, the prevention program started at CAPS and now helping the larger community. Take a training, get your own Suspenders4Hope shirt and learn how to do your part to prevent suicide, sexual violence and substance abuse. Learn More Looking for Testing Services? Testing Services now has their own webpage! Visit Testing Services 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©