Skip to main content Temple University Explore Temple’s Schools and Colleges Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Support Temple Temple University Search Site Search Full Menu Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees President History & Traditions Temple Health News & Media Offices Public Information Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Development Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Libraries Management Information Systems Major You are here Home Academics Degrees and Programs Management Information Systems Major Apply Visit Request More Info Management Information Systems Major Admissions Careers, Internships & Opportunities Required Courses Research & Facilities Scholarships & Financial Aid Bachelor of Business Administration in Management Information Systems Learn to use technology to solve business problems and create new opportunities with the Bachelor of Business Administration in Management Information Systems in Temple University’s Fox School of Business. At the intersection of business and technology, management information systems gather, process and manage information in order to enhance and streamline business processes. These systems are responsible for payroll processing and accounting systems, shopping cart functionality in online retailers, and the ability to transfer money with a mobile phone, among other services. Students pursuing a bachelor’s degree in Management Information Systems will successfully compete in a digital-centric economy in which traditional large corporations, as well as small entrepreneurial firms, continue to increase efficiency within their information technology (IT) operations by adding new, innovative, technologically enhanced capabilities. Management Information Systems BBA students learn to analyze and design innovative digital products and services (e.g., create the social media strategy for a new start-up); analyze clients, specify needs, integrate applications and manage projects (e.g., acquire a new customer relationship management system); apply IT to automate and improve business processes (e.g., apply analytics to discover new insights); initiate and lead technology-enabled change (e.g., act as a digital innovation change agent in a large firm); and transform a business function with IT (e.g., create mobile apps to reach new customers). For interested students, the program also serves as a broad introduction to more specialized areas such as data analysis and database design, programming, and software and hardware development. Students pursuing the Management Information Systems Major work closely with internationally renowned faculty and benefit from the myriad of industry opportunities that come with attending an urban university, such as access to internships and professional organizations. The IT Advisory Board at Temple’s Institute for Business and Information Technology is comprised of representatives from some of Philadelphia’s largest companies, who serve as mentors and valuable connections. Management Information Systems students can also take advantage of the Fox IT Career Fair, and Professional Development Program, which is intended to prepare students for future success by providing them with industry experiences, career knowledge, leadership, communication skills and workplace readiness skills. Learn more about professional opportunities and career services for BBA students. Accelerated 3-year BBA Motivated students can accelerate their BBA program to finish in three years. To find out more about completing your degree on an accelerated timeline, contact your advisor. 4+1 Program The Fox School’s rigorous 4+1 program gives undergraduate students a head start on their master’s degree. Students interested in the accelerated program apply spring semester of their sophomore year; use 12 credits of elective space to take graduate courses during their junior and senior years, while taking advantage of undergraduate tuition rates; complete the remaining credits for the master’s in the year following undergraduate graduation; and earn an undergraduate and master’s degree in just five years. The program is available to students in the following areas. Actuarial Science Bachelor of Business Administration in Business Management Business Analytics Human Resource Management IT Auditing and Cyber Security Learn more about the Fox School’s 4+1 program. Classes & Curriculum The Management Information Systems Major curriculum is comprised of required courses, electives, a final capstone project and a professional achievement requirement of 1,000 points. Learn how students earn achievement points. The following courses are required for graduation. Application Integration and Evaluation Data Analytics Data-Centric Application Development Digital Solutions Studio Enterprise IT Architecture Information Systems Integration Lead Global Digital Projects Learn more about Management Information Systems Major courses. Related Graduate Degrees Business Administration MBA Business Administration PhD Digital Innovation in Marketing MS IT Auditing and Cyber Security MS Innovation Management Entrepreneurship MS Related Graduate Certificates Entrepreneurship and Technology Commercialization IT Auditing and Cyber Security Innovation Strategy Tuition & Fees In keeping with Temple’s commitment to access and affordability, the Bachelor of Business Administration offers a competitive level of tuition with multiple opportunities for financial support. Tuition rates are set annually by the university and are affected by multiple factors, including program degree level (undergraduate or graduate), course load (full- or part-time), in-state or out-of-state residency, and more. Learn more about our tuition and fees. These tuition costs apply to the 2021–2022 academic year. Pennsylvania resident: $21,144.00 per year Out-of-state: $38,544.00 per year Our Academic Advisors The Center for Undergraduate Advising in the Fox School of Business is dedicated to helping students navigate their academics and make informed decisions about their career paths. See a full list of undergraduate academic advisors. Peer Advising The Center for Undergraduate Advising also offers peer advising at the Main Campus location. Undergraduate peer advisors offer the perspective of an upper-level student and assist by sharing their knowledge and personal tips for academic success. Program Contact For more information about your degree program, contact the faculty below. Kate Markowitz is the director of enrollment management for undergraduate students. Phone: 215-204-4892 Email: kmrick@temple.edu Tom Carney is the assistant director of undergraduate enrollment. Phone: 215-204-5424 Email: tom.carney@temple.edu Claudia Bereshnyi is the assistant director of transfer, veteran and online BBA recruitment and the contact for both incoming transfer students and those interested in an online BBA. Phone: 215-204-4100 Email: claudia@temple.edu Drew Hashimura is the coordinator of enrollment management. Phone: 215-204-2070 Email: ahashimura@temple.edu Student Clubs & Organizations Joining student clubs and organizations is a great way to meet like-minded students; connect with local, national and international businesses; and build the skills you’ll need in your professional career. Enhance your academic experience by participating in a club related to your major or interests. Temple Association for Information Systems offers students opportunities to practice and promote management information systems through social, community and professional development activities. Membership is open to any Temple University student interested in a Management Information Systems-related career. Explore the full list of Fox School of Business student clubs and organizations. Global Immersions Broaden your understanding of global economies and business practices by taking advantage of the various study abroad options and opportunities for learning beyond Temple’s Main Campus in Philadelphia through Global Immersion Programs. Temple administers several programs around the world, including campus sites in Rome, Japan and Spain, faculty-led summer programs and exchange programs in Europe and Asia. Interested students may also participate in approved programs organized by study abroad organizations or other U.S. universities, or apply directly to an accredited institution overseas. Temple’s Education Abroad office provides information on approved programs, and advisors can work with you to determine which program might provide the best fit. Learn more about study away options. Temple Exchange Programs Through reciprocal exchange agreements with the following universities, Temple students can exchange places with students for a semester or academic year. Some programs require sufficient proficiency in the host country language to participate. China: Hong Kong Baptist University Korea: Ewha Womans University, Yonsei University, Sogang University Taiwan: National Taiwan University Learn more about Temple exchange programs (PDF). Accreditation The Fox School of Business is accredited by the Association to Advance Collegiate Schools of Business (AACSB). The school has maintained AACSB accreditation since 1934. BU-MIS-BBA Additional Program Information Available as a minor. School/College Site View Program Details Go back to AcademicsMore in Management Information Systems Major Admissions Careers, Internships & Opportunities Required Courses Research & Facilities Scholarships & Financial Aid Apply Visit Request More Info Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Calendar Policies Social Media TUportal TUmail Accessibility Careers at Temple Safety & Emergency Information Ethics & Compliance Privacy Statement Professional Licensure Disclosures Follow Temple University Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community. Apply Visit Request More Info