Skip to main content iastate.edu Index A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z Directory Maps Safety Sign Ons Iowa State University University Library Menu Toggle Search Toggle Search Index Hours My Library Card Give Research & Collections Find Books & Media (Quick Search) Article Indexes & Databases e-Books e-Journals - A-Z list Specific Article by Citation or DOI Course Reserves Movies and TV Streaming Video Collections WorldCat (Open Access) Catalogs of Other Libraries Iowa State Collections DataShare: ISU's Data Repository Digital Collections Digital Initiatives Digital Press Digital Repository @ Iowa State University Special Collections and University Archives Research Help Research and Course Guides Quick Search Tips Find Articles Find Dissertations and Theses Find Other Types of Material Find Audiovisual Materials Find Books Find Census Data Find Government Documents Find Images Find Legal Research Find Magazines, Journals Find Manuscripts and Archives Find Maps Find Microforms Find Newspapers and News Find Standards Cite Sources Cite Sources Overview Endnote Ask Us! Find Your Librarian Collections Areas Leisure Collection Media Center Periodical Room Reference Materials Call Numbers in Parks Library Library Storage Building Design Reading Room Design Reading Room Overview About the Design Reading Room Course Reserves - Design Reading Room Design Reading Room Staff Veterinary Medicine Library Restricted Building Access About the Vet Med Library Veterinary Medicine Library Staff Borrowing Main Desk Check Out and Return Request Books and More Pick From Shelf Service Recall or Hold an Item Renew an Item Interlibrary Loan & Document Delivery (ILL/DD) ILL/DD Overview ILL/DD Account Login Interlibrary Loan FAQ Libraries Requesting ISU Materials Unaffiliated User Terms and Conditions Missing Items Loan Periods Fines (overdue/lost items) Book a Media Item for Classroom Use Who May Borrow? Your Library Card Help & Services Accessibility Services Accessibility Services Overview Services & Equipment Available Physical Access to Parks Library Building and Collections Accessibility Services at Branch Libraries For You Services for Students Faculty & Instructors Distance Learners International Nest Alumni & Visitors Assistance Lost & Found Find Your Librarian Ask a Librarian How Do I ... Library FAQ Access E-Resources Access My Library Card Get Something That's Not Available Find Articles Find Dissertations and Theses Find Other Types of Materials Cite Sources Quick Search Tips Teaching & Class Support Library Instruction Overview Library 160 Course-related Instruction Course Reserves Research and Course Guides Workshops Copyright Information Open Scholarship Services Binding theses Solution Center Systems Status Spaces & Computers Study Rooms Group Study Rooms Research Study Rooms Quiet Areas Reserve a Library Space Parks Library spaces Floor & Tier Maps Accessible and Sensory Friendly Spaces Learning Connections Center Bookends Café International Nest Mindfulness Room Where to find ... Room Number Listings Physical Access to Parks Library Building and Collections Diaper changing stations and lactation room Restrooms Library Classroom Use Computers & Technology Assistive Technology Computers and Computer Labs Interactive Displays for Group Work Laptop & Equipment Checkout Group Equipment Loans Outlets and Wireless Printing, Copying, Scanning Other Equipment Parks Libro NVivo Software Access Design Reading Room Veterinary Medicine Library Ask Us! Elsevier Negotiations Status (Updated 04/06/2020): The University Library has concluded its journal negotiations with Elsevier for 2020. The new agreement moves the Library away from Elsevier’s overpriced and financially unsustainable Big Deal journal package and back to individual journal subscriptions. The Library already subscribes title by title to journals from other large commercial publishers, so the new Elsevier agreement is in alignment with the Library’s overall journal subscription strategy, which gives the Library much greater control over spending and content. The Agreement The new agreement includes 428 journals. Selection decisions were based on criteria such as, the number of articles published by Iowa State authors in the journal, the number of times the journal’s articles were cited by Iowa State authors, the percentage of the journal’s articles available open access, subscription price, and article downloads from the journal. The list of retained titles is available here as a pdf. The new agreement achieves two of the Library’s three negotiation goals. It reduces cost, and it does not include confidentiality language and can be publicly shared. The last goal, making progress on open access, was not met. However, Elsevier has agreed to continue working with the Library on this issue in 2020. The three Elsevier negotiation goals aligned with the Library’s Principles for Advancing Openness through Journal Negotiations, which were endorsed by the Library Advisory Committee and Faculty Senate in 2019 Thank you very much to the faculty, staff, librarians, and administrators from Iowa State who supported and worked on the negotiation. Access Options We are committed to providing you access to Elsevier content through the library website and through our Interlibrary Loan service. For journals: Try using our journal title search. Or, access ScienceDirect through this ISU Library enabled link. From any ScienceDirect journal page, there is an option to sign up for alerts – this will notify you when new articles are published. To enable this feature, you will need to register for a free account (see link in upper right of page header to either Register or Sign-in). Once you have signed in, in the middle of the page – under Explore journal content is a link to Set Up Journal Alerts). For articles: Use your favorite index/database. They will link out to the article page online. If full-text is not available for the article you need, please request it through Interlibrary Loan. ISU students, faculty, and staff can request Elsevier articles at no cost. We will fulfill requests as quickly as possible and strive for a 24-hour turnaround. Include the article DOI for faster delivery. Questions? If you have any questions about the new Elsevier agreement, please contact Ed Goedeken, goedeken@iastate.edu Background The previous 3-year journal agreement expired December 31, 2019 Negotiations began in spring 2019 and continued into early 2020 ISU Negotiation team: Curtis Brundy (AUL Collections, Library), Brent Swanson (Library), and Jamie Albertsen, (ISU Procurement) Learn More An Inside Iowa State article reviewing the library's work negotiating with Elsevier was shared with the campus community (April 2020) A Your Library Newsletter article was published with an overview of the outcome of negotiations (April 2020) To help keep the Iowa State community informed about the Elsevier negotiation, open forums took place at the Memorial Union in mid-January: • (January 14, 2020) • (January 15, 2020) Journal Negotiation principles passed faculty Senate [News] (October 18, 2019) University Library Journal Negotiation Principles developed (June 2019) Librarians are laying the foundation to end the “big deal” [Inside Higher Ed] (March 27, 2019) Navigation Menu The Agreement Access Options Questions? Background Learn More University Library University Library 701 Morrill Rd Ames, IA 50011-2102 Ask Us! 515 294-3642 phone Email Webmaster Facebook Twitter Follow us FDLP Copyright © 1995-2022 Iowa State University of Science and Technology All rights reserved Non-discrimination Policy Privacy Policy Digital Access & Accessibility Consumer information