Skip to main content UTS: Promo Links COVID-19 Updates Get Involved Search terms Search icon University of Texas System Toggle navigation Primary Navigation News Institutions Regents Administration Offices Breadcrumbs Home News Center Main page content Faculty at eight UT institutions recognized among nation’s top scientists Thursday, January 27, 2022 Social Sharing Links Share The American Association for the Advancement of Science (AAAS) recently named 20 scholars from eight University of Texas institutions as 2021 AAAS Fellows, a lifetime distinction awarded to some of the nation’s leading scientists. AAAS Fellows are elected each year by their peers in recognition of significant contributions to science, technology, engineering or math (STEM). More than 150 researchers and faculty members from UT institutions have earned the distinction. The following UT faculty members are among the 564 scientists nationwide who make up this year’s class of AAAS Fellows. UT Arlington: Erick C. Jones Sr., professor in the Industrial, Manufacturing and Systems Engineering Department UT Austin David Cannatella, professor of integrative biology and associate director for collections in UT Austin’s Biodiversity Center Bridget Goosby, professor of sociology and co-director of the Life in Frequencies Health Disparities (LifeHD) Research Lab Rasika Harshey, professor of molecular biosciences who holds the Lorene Morrow Kelley Professorship in Microbiology Lee Ann Kahlor, professor of advertising and public relations, studies health and environmental risk communication Xiuling Li, professor of electrical and computer engineering and chemistry Lance Manuel, professor of civil, architectural and environmental engineering UT Dallas Dr. Mustapha Ishak-Boushaki, professor of physics Dr. Robert Stern, professor of geosciences UT San Antonio James Chambers, professor of molecular microbiology and immunology Aimin Liu, professor of chemistry Angela Speck, professor of physics & astronomy UT Medical Branch Linda Kenney, professor of biochemistry and molecular biology and Tom and Kaye Arnold Professor in astroenterology UTHealth Houston Vasanthi Jayaraman, professor of biochemistry and molecular biology Theresa M. Koehler, professor of microbiology and molecular genetics UT MD Anderson Cancer Center Juan Fueyo, professor of neuro-oncology and director of Neuro-Oncology Experimental Research Victor G. Prieto, professor, and department chair of pathology UT Southwestern Medical Center Kim Orth, professor of molecular biology Vanessa Sperandio, professor of microbiology and biochemistry Diego H. Castrillon, Vernie A. Stembridge, M.D., Distinguished Chair in Pathology About The University of Texas System For more than 130 years, The University of Texas System has been committed to improving the lives of Texans and people all over the world through education, research and health care. With 13 institutions, an enrollment of more than 243,000 students and an operating budget of $23.4 billion (FY 2022), the UT System is one of the largest public university systems in the United States. UT institutions produce more than 67,000 graduates annually and award more than one-third of the state’s undergraduate degrees and more than half of its medical degrees. Collectively, UT-owned and affiliated hospitals and clinics accounted for more than 8.6 million outpatient visits and almost 1.8 million hospital days in 2020. UT institutions also are among the most innovative in the world, collectively ranking No. 4 for most U.S. patents granted in 2020, and the UT System is No. 1 in Texas and No. 2 in the nation in federal research expenditures. The UT System also is one of the largest employers in Texas, with more than 21,000 faculty – including Nobel laureates and members of the National Academies – and more than 85,000 health care professionals, researchers and support staff. News Contact Information Karen Adler: kadler@utsystem.edu • 512-499-4360 (direct) • 210-912-8055 (cell) UT System Links and Contact Information Academic Institutions UT Arlington UT Austin UT Dallas UT El Paso UT Permian Basin UT Rio Grande Valley UT San Antonio UT Tyler Health Institutions UT Southwestern UTMB Galveston UTHealth UT Health San Antonio UT MD Anderson UT System About SmartBook Office of the Chancellor Board of Regents Administration Offices Directory UT4U Outlook Web Access Info Center COVID-19 Site Policy Library Regents' Rules & Regulations Reports to the State Audit Reports Privacy Statement Linking Notice Copyright Accessibility Open Records Resources Careers Document Library seekUT UT System Dashboard Contact UT System State Links State of Texas Fraud Reporting Texas Homeland Security Texas Veterans Portal Statewide Search University of Texas System New footer logo © 2022 The University of Texas System. 210 West 7th Street, Austin, Texas 78701-2982. (512) 499-4200 The University of Texas System Menu × Primary Mobile Navigation News Institutions Regents Administration Offices