Texas Tech University Directory Raiderlink A-Z Index School of Law Menu Search TTU School of Law Events@Law Submission Guidelines Events@Law Submission Guidelines The events calendar is available at events.law.ttu.edu The Texas Tech University School of Law Event Calendar (Events@Law) is the official event calendar providing a consolidated listing of official events happening at the Law School. By promoting lectures, cultural events, student organization events and other activities, the calendar encourages communication within the Law School, and fosters community participation from Texas Tech University. Events@Law also provides more comprehensive information about Law School events to the external world in support of academic, research and other strategic objectives. Definition of an "Event" Events include academic deadlines, guest lectures, workshops, meetings, training programs, as well as cultural, sporting and social functions. They may include on-campus events or selected off-campus events sponsored by a Law School entity (e.g., program, institute, center, registered student organization, etc.). These events may be open to the general public, the Texas Tech community, or a segment of the Texas Tech community. All submissions must adhere to TTU Operating Policies and Procedures, including TTU IT Security Policies, specifically the University Acceptable Use Guidelines. Posting an Event - Guidelines You must have a ttu.edu email address, and you will be required to supply your eRaider username and password. If you need technical assistance regarding eRaider access, please contact IT Help Central at (806) 742-HELP (4357). All announcements must be submitted by a Texas Tech University employee or student representing a formal university organization; such as a division, department, school, or registered student organization, that must be identified in the event. Events must be entered into the calendar at least one week prior to the actual event date, unless an exception is granted based on unusual circumstances. Likewise, events cannot be entered more than one year prior to the event date. Exception requests can be sent to events.law@ttu.edu. Please specify who can attend the event if it is not open to the public or to the entire Texas Tech community, and include the location of where the event will take place. Be sure to proofread your submissions for any errors. Tips Before submitting an event, make sure it has not already been posted. The easiest way to do this is to check the date of your event. Note that the calendar is automatically populated with certain events, deadlines and other entries. Remember, your event will "share the stage" with other events in the calendar. Use language that will explain your event to someone who knows absolutely nothing about it. Include as many details as possible: contact information, resource links, restrictions, cost, location, time, etc. Make your titles descriptive. For example, rather than "Lecture," use "Energy Law Lecture Series: Roderick E. Wetsel "A Whirlwind Tour Through the Exciting New World of Wind Energy." Elaborate on the event in the description field, but try not to repeat the same information from the title. Be specific when entering the timeframe of your event. The system can incorporate multi-day events as well as recurring events (which are featured on the right side of the calendar). You can add an image URL to illustrate your event. For best viewing results make your image no larger than 350 pixels wide and/or 300 pixels high. If you don't have the ability to upload your own images, send it by email to events.law@ttu.edu for assistance. Featured Events The Texas Tech Law School personnel will select events to appear in the featured area of the calendar that appeal to wide audiences and promote the college's academic, research and other strategic initiatives. To have your event considered, please note your request in the additional information box when you enter the event information. Additionally, you must provide a photo to be considered. Crop your photo to 241x188 pixels. Email photos to events.law@ttu.edu Subject: Calendar feature photo Body: Name of Event and Date Pending Events These events are waiting to be published by a calendar administrator. You may edit or delete your events until they have been accepted. Once your event is published, you will no longer see it in your list. Cancellation Policy If an event is rescheduled or canceled, please contact events.law@ttu.edu, so that we may make necessary changes. School of Law Like School of Law on FacebookLike School of Law on Facebook Follow School of Law on twitterFollow School of Law on twitter Subscribe to School of Law on YouTubeSubscribe to School of Law on YouTube Connect with School of Law on LinkedInConnect with School of Law on LinkedIn Address Texas Tech University School of Law, 3311 18th Street, Lubbock, Texas 79409-0004 Phone 806.742.3791 Email law@ttu.edu Texas Tech University 2500 Broadway Lubbock, Texas 79409 806.742.2011 Follow Texas Tech University Like Texas Tech University on FacebookLike Texas Tech University on Facebook Follow Texas Tech University on twitterFollow Texas Tech University on twitter Check in with Texas Tech University on FourSquareCheck in with Texas Tech University on FourSquare Subscribe to Texas Tech University on YouTubeSubscribe to Texas Tech University on YouTube Follow Texas Tech University on FlickrFollow Texas Tech University on Flickr Follow Texas Tech University on InstagramFollow Texas Tech University on Instagram Connect with Texas Tech University on LinkedInConnect with Texas Tech University on LinkedIn Contact Texas Tech UniversityContact Texas Tech University Contact Us Campus Map Jobs @ TTU Emergency Communication Center General Policy Information Public Access to Course Info Energy Management Mental Health Resources Title IX Fraud and Misconduct Hotline Online Institutional Resumes TTU System TTU Health Sciences Center TTUHSC El Paso Angelo State University Midwestern State University Statewide Search State of Texas Texas Homeland Security Texas Veterans Portal Texas CREWS SAO Fraud Reporting Open Records Requests © 2022 Texas Tech UniversityJan 17, 2020 4:54 PM School of Law About Us School of Law About Us Back Our Story School of Law About Us Our Story Back Who We Are Mission Statement & Learning Outcomes Strategic Plan Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Our Community School of Law About Us Our Community Back Faculty Directory Staff Directory Admissions School of Law Admissions Back Prospective Students School of Law Admissions Prospective Students Back Welcome Why Texas Tech Law Transfer and Visiting Applicants Diversity & Inclusion FAQs Recruiting Events and Virtual Resources ABA Required Disclosures Apply to Texas Tech Law School of Law Admissions Apply to Texas Tech Law Back Admissions Policy Application Process Apply Now Online Status Check Financial Aid School of Law Admissions Financial Aid Back Tuition Refunds and Payments How to Apply Scholarships Loans and State Aid Other Types of Aid Student's Rights and Responsibilities Admitted Students School of Law Admissions Admitted Students Back Welcome Pay Your Seat Deposit Online eRaider Account Campus Computing Resources Academics School of Law Academics Back Academic Resources School of Law Academics Academic Resources Back Academic Policies Academic Calendar Academic Catalog Raiderlink Honor Code & Student Handbook Faculty Directory 2021-22 Post-Tenure Review Staff Directory Information Technology Services Publications MyTechLaw Degree Programs School of Law Academics Degree Programs Back Doctor of Jurisprudence Dual-Degree Programs Concentrations Centers & Programs School of Law Academics Centers & Programs Back Center for Biodefense, Law, and Public Policy Center for Military Law and Policy Center for Water Law and Policy Office of Academic Success Programs Advocacy Competition Energy Law Program Legal Practice International Law Programs Public Service Clinics & Externships School of Law Academics Clinics & Externships Back Clinical Program Overview Regional Externship Office of the Registrar School of Law Academics Office of the Registrar Back Welcome Registration Information Exam Information Request a Transcript FERPA Degree & Enrollment Verifications Reordering Diploma Open Records Request Texas Bar Exam and MPRE Student Life School of Law Student Life Back Important Links School of Law Student Life Important Links Back Academic Policies Honor Code & Student Handbook Faculty Directory Staff Directory Title IX Life at Tech Law School of Law Student Life Life at Tech Law Back Meet Student Life Academic Support Student Support Public Service Student Organizations Advocacy Competition Teams Summer Public Interest Award Publications School of Law Student Life Publications Back Texas Tech Law Review Estate Planning & Community Property Law Journal Journal of Biosecurity, Biosafety, and Biodefense Law Texas Bank Lawyer The Sidebar Express School of Law Catalog Law School Video Recording Law School Events School of Law Student Life Law School Events Back Event Calendar Events@Law Submission Guidelines May 2022 Commencement Library School of Law Library Back Law Library Home Services School of Law Library Services Back Students Faculty Alumni Practicing Attorneys Visitors Research and Reference School of Law Library Research and Reference Back Electronic Databases Internet Resources Scholar Research Guide Series HeinOnline WestlawNext Intro to Legal Periodicals and Books SSRN ProQuest Congressional BNA Bloomberg Law Lexis Advance West Academic Study Aids Technical Services School of Law Library Technical Services Back Web Printing ILL Information School of Law Library Information Back Library Newsletter Map and Directions Floor Plans Other Area Libraries Job Openings Contact Us Careers School of Law Careers Back Home School of Law Careers Home Back Welcome Symplicity Students School of Law Careers Students Back Services MyTechLaw Employers School of Law Careers Employers Back Posting a Job Opportunity On-Campus Interview Programs Regional Interview Events Online Resume ViewBooks Rank Spread Alumni School of Law Careers Alumni Back Request a Transcript Job Search Resources 2022 Graduate Employment Survey Form Employment Statistics School of Law Careers Employment Statistics Back 2021 Employment Summary 2020 Employment Summary 2019 Employment Summary Alumni & Giving School of Law Alumni & Giving Back General Information School of Law Alumni & Giving General Information Back Resources for Alumni Texas Tech Lawyer Magazine Texas Tech Law School Foundation School of Law Alumni & Giving Texas Tech Law School Foundation Back Foundation Board Distinguished Alumni, Service, and Humanitarian Awards Giving to Texas Tech Law Alumni Association School of Law Alumni & Giving Alumni Association Back Alumni Association Awards Giving School of Law Alumni & Giving Giving Back How to Give Annual Giving Endowments Gift & Estate Planning Give Now MyTechLaw Consumer Information (ABA Required Disclosures) Additional Resources TTU Home Directory Raiderlink A-Z Index ... ...