Skip to content BROWN OUTDOOR LEADERSHIP TRAINING Facebook Instagram BOLT Menu HOME About Mission and Philosophy Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion History Director Information For BOLTers A Day on the Trail The BOLTer Experience Policies Financial Aid and Gear Program Forms, Mailings, and Packing List BOLTer Calendar For Leaders The Leader Experience Position Description and Requirements Forms and Resources Financial Aid and Gear Program Leader Calendar For Mentors The Mentor Experience Mentor Calendar For Alumni Newsletters Supporting BOLT For Parents About the Program Supporting BOLT Contact Office Hours Resources Apply "Now I see the secret of the making of the best persons. It is to grow in the open air and to eat and sleep with the earth." - Walt Whitman HOME ***Applications to PARTICIPATE IN BOLT ARE open! APPLY HERE BY MAY 22ND!*** Due to staff shortages, the fall 2022 BOLT trip will be a frontcountry camping & hiking trip in southern New Hampshire, not the traditional backcountry trip in the White Mountains. We will return to the traditional backpacking model in Fall 2023. BOLT Fall Trip From August 30, 2021 – September 3, 2021, BOLT held a five-day wilderness experience based at Camp Sargent in Hancock, New Hampshire. This trip was a COVID-friendly adaptation to the traditional five-day backpacking experience, and groups enjoyed day hikes (including Mount Monadnock), low ropes challenge course activities, and more. BOLT continues throughout the fall semester with group get-togethers, leadership development workshops, and community events that are all part of our new and improved Fall Program. Former BOLTers and leaders agree, your BOLT group provides a community of 9 other people who you may never have otherwise met. Beyond that, you will always have the wider BOLT community to call your own. This opens you up to so many more wonderful people and opportunities! BOLT is committed to welcoming everyone into the program regardless of background or ability to pay. No outdoor or backpacking experience necessary. Financial aid, as well as FREE gear and boots rental are available! In addition, BOLT also offers community trips for people of color, women/people of marginalized gender identity, and creative trips for people who want to focus on artistic expression in the outdoors and/or want a trip that is less physically strenuous. The next application for BOLTers will open in March 2022 and will close in late May 2022. Sophomores, transfer students, 2nd or 3rd yr Brown/RISD degree students, and RUE students are eligible to participate in the BOLT trip. What is BOLT? BOLT is an inclusive community for rising sophomores, transfers, and RUE students at Brown University. It begins with a backpacking trip in the White Mountains of New Hampshire before school starts, and continues through the fall semester with fun and supportive events. Recent affinity groups have been created for BOLT experiences, including some of the following: Marginalized Gender Identity trip, BIPOC trip, and Arts & Accessibility in the Outdoors. Please visit this page for more information! DONATE to BOLT! Thank you to everyone who has already to support BOLT! We sincerely appreciate your contribution. Donations are crucial to the financial assistance that we are able to provide to future BOLT Participants and Leaders. If you are able and willing to donate, please follow the instructions on this page. Financial Aid and Gear Program We are committed to ensuring that all BOLTers and BOLT Leaders are able to participate in our program, regardless of their financial situation. Thanks to generous donors, we are able to rent out gear (such as backpacks, boots, sleeping bags and pads, warm layers, etc.) free of charge. We also offer financial aid to those in need. More information for BOLTers here, and Leaders here. Search Search for: GET IN TOUCH Are you interested in BOLT, but still have some questions? Or maybe you’re an alumnus looking to update us about your life! Either way, we’d love to hear from you. Please email us at BOLT@brown.edu Create a website or blog at WordPress.com Privacy & Cookies: This site uses cookies. By continuing to use this website, you agree to their use. To find out more, including how to control cookies, see here: Cookie Policy BOLT Customize Sign up Log in Copy shortlink Report this content Manage subscriptions