Skip to main content Harvard University 1 site notification Latest COVID Information Search Search Quick Links Find a Person A to Z Index Menu Academics Academics Explore all programs Browse all of our undergraduate concentrations, graduate degrees, and professional certificates. Harvard Schools Academics Visit each School for information on admissions and financial aid. Explore more Harvard College Harvard Business School Harvard Division of Continuing Education Harvard Divinity School Harvard Faculty of Arts and Sciences Harvard Graduate School of Arts and Sciences Harvard Graduate School of Design Harvard Graduate School of Education Harvard John A. Paulson School of Engineering and Applied Sciences Harvard Kennedy School Harvard Law School Harvard Medical School Harvard Radcliffe Institute Harvard School of Dental Medicine Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health Professional and lifelong learning Free online courses More about academics at Harvard Campus Campus Harvard's Campus Get tickets to our next game, hours and locations for our libraries and museums, and information about your next career move. Libraries Campus Explore our libraries Arnold Arboretum Horticultural Library Baker Library and Special Collections Biblioteca Berenson Botany Libraries Cabot Science Library Countway Library Dumbarton Oaks Research Library Ernst Mayr Library Fine Arts Library Frances Loeb Library Fung Library Gutman Library Harvard Divinity School Library Harvard Film Archive Harvard Law School Library Harvard Map Collection Harvard University Archives Harvard-Yenching Library HKS Library and Knowledge Services Houghton Library Lamont Library Loeb Music Library Robbins Library of Philosophy Schlesinger Library on the History of Women in America Tozzer Library Widener Library Wolbach Library Woodberry Poetry Room Museums Campus Explore our museums The Arnold Arboretum Carpenter Center for the Visual Arts Collection of Historical Scientific Instruments Graduate School of Design Exhibitions Harvard Art Museums Harvard Forest Harvard Museum of Natural History The Harvard Museum of the Ancient Near East Harvard Museums of Science and Culture Harvard University Herbaria Mineralogical and Geological Museum Museum of Comparative Zoology The Peabody Museum of Archaeology and Ethnology Warren Anatomical Museum Athletics Work at Harvard Events Commencement Campus Harvard Commencement for the Class of 2022 Harvard Commencement for the Classes of 2020 & 2021 In Focus In Focus Explore and understand the world with Harvard In Focus is a curated examination of Harvard's research, scholarly work, and community. Recent topics include: Commencement 2022 In Focus Celebrating the Graduates Highlighting the accomplishments and celebrating the bright futures of Harvard’s most recent grads Meet this year's graduates What's inside? The Harvard Gazette's coverage of this year's Commencement Explore each School's events Mental Health In Focus Mental Health Awareness Month To commemorate Mental Health Awareness Month, the Harvard community is exploring how we cope with, manage, and understand mental health and how it impacts our lives. View the feature What's inside? Is a mobile app as good as a therapist? Bipolar breakthrough Climate Solutions In Focus Climate Solutions Faculty and students from across the Harvard community are working on ways to address climate change and its effects. Explore these adaptations What's inside? Zero-waste architecture Better batteries inspired by a BLT Explore the In Focus archives Visit Visit Visit Harvard Ideas and assistance for your trip to our campus. Tours Maps and Directions About About About Harvard Information on how Harvard is structured, explore our long history, and discover our extended community. History of Harvard About History of Harvard Harvard is perhaps best-known because of its enduring history of innovation in education. But even die-hard Harvard buffs are not likely to know all of these Harvard firsts and historical snippets. Learn more History timeline Nobel Laureates Honorary Degrees Harvard Shields Leadership and Governance About Learn about our Leadership Officers and Deans Harvard Corporation Board of Overseers University Professorships Diversity and Inclusion Endowment Harvard in the Community Harvard in the World News News The Harvard Gazette Official news from Harvard University about science, medicine, art, campus life, University issues, and broader national and global concerns. Trending News Stories News Read more news Jacinda Ardern’s forceful reminder: Democracies can die New Zealand Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern delivers warning on erosion of trust in her Commencement address, urging social media reforms and calling on individuals to reject tribalism. Harvard awards seven honorary degrees During today’s Commencement ceremony in Tercentenary Theatre, Harvard will recognize seven with an honorary degree. Humans hot, sweaty, natural-born runners Hairless, clawless, and largely weaponless, ancient humans used the unlikely combination of sweatiness and relentlessness to gain the upper hand over their faster, stronger, generally more dangerous animal prey, Harvard Anthropology Professor Daniel Lieberman said Thursday (April 12). Pursuit of joy starts with truth, Wu tells graduates Class Day speaker Michelle Wu ’07, J.D. ’12, urged the class of 2022 to hold fast to Harvard’s founding motto “veritas,” or truth. Sign up for the Daily Gazette Navigation Quick Links A to Z Index Find a Person Events Media Relations Alumni Give Now Harvard University Close Professional and Lifelong Learning Engage with Harvard faculty to increase your impact through executive, certificate, and online programs. Learn about our executive, certificate, and online courses Harvard Business School On-campus and online certificate courses from Harvard Business School to help advance your career or organization. Harvard Business School Executive Education Harvard Business School Online Harvard Business Analytics Program Harvard Division of Continuing Education Rigorous courses and programs for working professionals, distance learners, high school- and college-age students, and those seeking higher learning in retirement. Harvard Professional Development Programs Harvard Extension School Harvard Summer School Harvard Institute for Learning in Retirement Harvard Medical School Medical and health care knowledge accessible to learners of all kinds including business and science leaders, clinicians and other health care professionals, pre-health career students, and patients and families. Postgraduate Medical Education HMX Online Learning Harvard Medical School Executive Education Harvard Health Publishing Executive Education Harvard Kennedy School Offers senior leaders from every sector online and on-campus programs led by Harvard faculty to optimize your effectiveness and make a difference. Executive Education Public Leadership Credential Harvard Graduate School of Education Timely, relevant professional education designed for early childhood leaders, K-12 leaders and teachers, and higher education professionals. Online, on-campus, blended, and customized program experiences combining Harvard research and teaching with peer-learning to advance the professional practices of educators from around the world. Professional Education at the Harvard Graduate School of Education Early Childhood Programs K-12 Programs Higher Education Programs Online Programs Harvard Law School Virtual and in-person programs for lawyers and professionals from around the world that provide critical leadership, negotiation, and business skills that can be immediately applied in their careers. Harvard Law School Executive Education The Program on Negotiation Executive Education Executive and Continuing Professional Education Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health Executive and Continuing Professional Education courses that inform the current generation of global health leaders and educate those ready to take on leadership positions in health care and public health around the world. Programs for Individuals Programs for Organizations Office of the Vice Provost for Advances in Learning Online certificate courses from faculty across the university that provoke discussion, stimulate growth, and drive action for learners around the world. Explore HarvardX Explore Harvard Online Harvard Graduate School of Design GSD’s highly interactive programs span design, architecture, real estate, technology, finance, city planning, leadership, and economic development. They are designed for leaders seeking to strengthen their global networks and build smarter, healthier, greener, and more beautiful buildings and cities. Advanced Management Development Program (AMDP) in Real Estate Open Enrollment Programs Custom Programs Delivered Globally Professional Education Harvard School of Dental Medicine Educational experiences for oral health care professionals and colleagues in other health professions. Continuing Professional Education Continuing and Executive Education Harvard Divinity School A selection of short seminars and online sessions exploring some of the world’s biggest questions with leading HDS scholars and professors of religion. Explore the HDS programs Harvard John A. Paulson School of Engineering and Applied Sciences (SEAS) Interdisciplinary blended learning programs for working professionals focused on digital transformation delivered in collaboration with other Harvard schools, and introductory courses in computer science and machine learning for a global online audience. Harvard Business Analytics Program Harvard SEAS/Harvard Kennedy School: Leading in AI (executive education) HarvardX individual courses: CS50, Science and Cooking, TinyML (Machine Learning) Professional Education Radcliffe Institute Classes to help educators to bring their curricula to life. Opportunities for Educators Security & Brand Report Copyright Infringement Report Security Issue Trademark Notice Website Accessibility Digital Accessibility Privacy Statement Get In Touch Contact Harvard Maps & Directions Jobs © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube 0:00 0:00