Utah State University sites use cookies. By continuing to use this site you accept our privacy and cookie policy. I agree Skip to content Apply Visit Give Calendar A-Z Index Directory Libraries QUICK LINKS MyUSU SEARCH Utah State TODAY Close search Search Utah State University: I want to search All USU sites People Search terms Submit search × Utah State TODAY Open main menu Close Open search Home Explore Stories Close Explore Stories Arts & Humanities Business & Society Health & Wellness Land & Environment Science & Technology Teaching & Learning Campus Life Athletics University Affairs Series Topics In Focus All Stories Resources Close Resources Subscribe USU Pressroom USU in the News Submission Instructions Submit a Press Release Contact us Quick Links Close Quick Links Apply Visit Give Calendar A-Z Index Directory Libraries MyUSU University Affairs Degree Programs Realigned to Create New Department at Utah State University By Lynnette Harris | May 26, 2022 Full Size Professor Brian Warnick will head a new department in the College of Agriculture and Applied Sciences and leave his current position as the college's associate dean for student services. × Download Close Download To better serve the faculty and rapidly growing number of students enrolled in Utah State University’s College of Agriculture and Applied Sciences, Dean Ken White this week announced changes in the structure of some departments and programs in the college. In short, existing majors and programs in the Aviation and Technical Education (AVTE) and Applied Sciences, Technology and Education (ASTE) departments are being realigned and an additional department created. The new department will be comprised of degree programs in technology systems the outdoor product design and development (OPDD) program on the Logan campus, and USU’s growing statewide career and technical education courses that largely serve communities throughout southeastern Utah. Professor Brian Warnick will move from his position as CAAS associate dean for student services to become the interim department head. A new associate dean will be appointed sometime in the next few months. CAAS aviation programs that train students for careers as pilots and aircraft maintenance technicians for both rotorcraft and fixed-wing aircraft, aviation operations managers, and unmanned aerial vehicle pilots, will be administered as a new department. Professor Bruce Miller has served as head of the AVTE department overseeing aviation and technical education and leads the new Department of Aviation Technology. While some students graduated this year and others will begin in the fall, the aviation program alone had 488 students enrolled during the past spring semester. “Aviation has complex and uniquely structured degree programs, regulations and equipment, and the career and technical education programs have a lot of moving parts and options,” White said. “Together they have become just too much for one administrator, and our aviation programs in Logan and Price continue to grow. Change can be difficult, but it’s exciting to provide programs that serve so many students and address needs in our state.” Professor Becki Lawver continues as head of the department of Agricultural Systems, Technology and Education, from which the OPDD program will be moved. The department has diverse degree programs, including agricultural communications, agricultural technology, and prepares students for jobs as secondary school teachers and community educators in agriculture, family and consumer sciences, business, and engineering technology. At the end of spring semester this year, the department had 313 students. Warnick will oversee programs in Logan and the array of career and technical education programs that serve people at USU campuses and learning centers throughout the state, but especially at USU Eastern in Price, Blanding, and Moab. It’s a complex collection of education opportunities that give students training to earn certificates or associate degrees that make them immediately workforce-ready. The programs don’t all fit the traditional semester schedule as certificates can be earned in one or two semesters and some have open entry dates so students don’t have to wait until the start of a new semester to enroll. Many students need to gain a specific set of job skills quickly while they keep working a current job, and some are older students who are training for a second or third career. While career and technical education is not new, USU’s approach is unusual with "stackable" programs that allow students to go on and use their credits as a foundation for earning bachelor’s and graduate degrees if they wish. During the past spring semester, enrollment in career and technical education courses and in OPDD totaled 796 students. Warnick said when he arrived at USU in 2004 and joined the ASTE faculty, it was one of the smallest departments in a rather small college. That is clearly not the case now, he said. Technical education programs may seem an unusual fit for a Carnegie R1-ranked research university. “I see these programs as important components of USU’s land-grant mission to create accessibility whether that‘s geographically or academically,” he said. “Our mission is to provide education and opportunities for everyone, including in rural communities. Our Blanding, Price and Moab campuses have great faculty who are making big impacts in people’s lives and communities and I think we’re just scratching the surface of the positive impact we can have working with the Navajo Nation. We’re making it possible for people to gain education, get better jobs, fill needs in our workforce, and stay where they are, in communities where they want to live.” Warnick noted his admiration and appreciation for work Miller and Professor Gary Straquadine, who recently retired as USU associate vice president for technical education, and faculty have done to create industry and community partnerships, internships and apprenticeships, and design new ways of providing education in the state. “After talking with faculty, our working title will be the Department of Applied Design and Technical Education,” Warnick said. “This is an exciting opportunity and I am passionate about what’s happening in both OPDD and technical education. On the flip side though, I am not excited to leave my current position where I get to work with our student leadership, fantastic advising team, and have a front row seat to what goes on with all of the college’s great faculty and students.” Full Size ASTE Department Head Becki Lawver. × Download Close Download Full Size AVTE Department Head Bruce Miller. × Download Close Download WRITER Lynnette Harris Marketing and Communications College of Agriculture and Applied Sciences 435-764-6936 lynnette.harris@usu.edu CONTACT Brian Warnick Head, Department of Applied Design and Technical Education Associate Dean, College of Agriculture and Applied Sciences brian.warnick@usu.edu Rebecca Lawver Professor and Department Head Applied Sciences, Technology and Education 435-797-1254 Rebecca.lawver@usu.edu Bruce Miller Department Head Department of Aviation Technology bruce.miller@usu.edu TOPICS Agriculture 165stories Comments and questions regarding this article may be directed to the contact person listed on this page. Next Story in University Affairs May 20, 2022 2189 Blair Barfuss to Join USU as Chief of Police Utah State University has named Blair Barfuss as chief of police within the Department of Public Safety following a rigorous national search. Read the Story See Also May 10, 2022 1608 USU Selects New Provost, Executive Vice President President Cockett has named Laurens H. (Larry) Smith as provost and Robert W. Wagner as executive vice president, both effective July 1. Trending on Utah State Today Read the Story HEALTH & WELLNESS May 19, 2022 165461 Update for USU Community on Coronavirus Read the Story UNIVERSITY AFFAIRS May 02, 2022 2707 USU Names Irungu Inaugural VP of Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Read the Story UNIVERSITY AFFAIRS May 26, 2022 2643 Degree Programs Realigned to Create New Department at Utah State University Read the Story UNIVERSITY AFFAIRS May 03, 2022 2627 Utah State University to Award More Than 7,000 Degrees in 2022 FOLLOW US USU Facebook USU Twitter USU YouTube USU Instagram USU LinkedIn Old Main Hill, Logan, UT 84322 (435) 797-1000 EXPLORE STORIES Browse Archives Explore Topics Explore Series USU in the News FOR THE MEDIA Pressroom Media Contacts Media resources About USU SUBSCRIBE Receive our weekly newsletter. Subscribe to Utah State Today Email Subscribe Maps & Directions Search USU Campus Safety Jobs Contact Disclaimers Copyright Privacy Accessibility Non-Discrimination Back to top of the page