Emergency Notification: COVID-19 Visit the Health Advisories website for the latest updates, FAQs, vaccination information, and to Report a Case. Skip to main content San José State University Menu Visit Campus Tours Maps Parking Silicon Valley Hammer Theatre SJSU Loves SJ Academics Colleges and Departments Majors and Programs Centers and Institutes Academic Calendar Classes King Library Admissions Tuition and Fees Housing Professional Education Parent and Family Programs Campus Life Health and Wellness Safety SJSU Cares Events Traditions Student Alumni Connection Research and Innovation Office of Research SJSU Research Foundation Student-Faculty Collaborations Become a Research Partner About Administration and Leadership Facts and Accomplishments Partnerships Transformation Defined SJSU on Facebook SJSU on Twitter SJSU on LinkedIn SJSU on Instagram SJSU on YouTube Athletics Alumni Association Giving to SJSU Canvas one.SJSU Search University Menu .Go toSJSU homepage. Visit Campus Tours Maps Parking Silicon Valley Hammer Theatre SJSU Loves SJ Academics Colleges and Departments Majors and Programs Centers and Institutes Academic Calendar Classes King Library Admissions Tuition and Fees Housing Professional Education Parents and Family Programs Campus Life Health and Wellness Safety SJSU Cares Events Traditions Student Alumni Connection Research and Innovation Office of Research SJSU Research Foundation Student-Faculty Collaborations Become a Research Partner Athletics About Administration and Leadership Facts and Accomplishments Partnerships Transformation Defined Home SJSU Loves SJ SJSU Loves SJ: Connecting Our Communities SJSU Loves SJ: Connecting Our Communities Menu Weeks of Welcome Explore San José Together Explore San José Together Video Playlist SJSU Bucket List Weeks of Welcome Explore San José Together Video Playlist SJSU Bucket List Photos: Mel Chircop ’21 BFA Photography Experience the Heart of Silicon Valley SJSU Loves SJ brings together San José State University and the city of San José to promote San José as the capital of Silicon Valley—a vibrant city at the center of innovation, creativity and technology. There are many reasons why Spartans love our city. With San José State located in the heart of the city, we’ve created the SJSU Loves SJ initiative in collaboration with Visit San José, the Downtown Association, Japantown Business Association, and San José City Hall to further connect and integrate students with the culture of the thriving local community. To kick off the new semester, we’ll be hosting events as a part of our Weeks of Welcome program to help students experience the best parts of the city and SJSU. From lighting of the San José City Hall rotunda in blue and gold to local farmer’s markets and beautiful street murals, opportunities abound for students to explore a city like no other. Weeks of Welcome It’s the start of a whole new semester and we’re so excited to welcome Spartans with our Weeks of Welcome (WOW) programs and events designed to provide support for students as they transition into SJSU and connect with the Spartan and San José community. Explore San José Together Get to know your new home and explore all the great things San José has to offer with our interactive Google Map. Students will be able to explore the best places to grab coffee, catch a show, taste delicious food, discover which places have student discounts and experience local landmarks. SJSU Bucket List Make your college experience a memorable one and take advantage of our SJSU Bucket List to help you check off different ways to prove you’re a true Spartan. What’s there to do? From salsa dancing to live music, come kick off the semester by exploring a variety of free events on campus and downtown San José. Event On,May7 Downtown San José Farmers’ MarketEvent starts at:,10 a.m. - Every Friday until December 17Event is located at:,SoFA District Event On,Jul15 Gordon Biersch Night MarketEvent starts at:,5 - 9 p.m. - Every Thursday until August 26Event is located at:,357 E Taylor Street Event On,Aug28 Silicon Valley Pride Parade and FesitvalEvent starts at:,See event detailsEvent is located at:,Plaza de César Chavez Park Event On,Aug29 Silicon Valley Pride Parade and FesitvalEvent starts at:,See event detailsEvent is located at:,Plaza de César Chavez Park Event On,Sep3 Dance Now Think Later: SalsaEvent starts at:,6 p.m.Event is located at:,Circle of Palms Downtown San José Event On,Sep4 Strike Up The BandEvent starts at:,7 p.mEvent is located at:,San José State's Tower Lawn Event On,Sep5 Strike Up The BandEvent starts at:,5:30 p.mEvent is located at:,San José State's Tower Lawn Event On,Oct1 Dance Now Think Later: CumbiaEvent starts at:,6 p.m.Event is located at:,Circle of Palms Downtown San José Alumni Stories 4th Street Pizza: An SJSU Institution One block from campus, at 4th and Santa Clara, alumnus Josh McGhie, '99 Marketing, runs a popular sports destination that became an SJSU institution among students. They're still delivering 4th Street pizzas to campus, by the way. Buddy Teahouse: Expertly Engineered Boba Spartan Daily met with Jay Tran, alumnus and proprietor of Buddy Teahouse, an ideal downtown spot to pick up a bubble tea. When Tran set up shop, he knew SJSU was the place to be. Big Network, Small World Learning an entrepreneurial mindset prepares students like Jasmine Sanchez, '20 Business, for work and life in Silicon Valley. Everyone can join SJSU's growing entrepreneurial ecosystem. Footer San José State University SJSU on Facebook SJSU on Twitter SJSU on LinkedIn SJSU on Instagram SJSU on YouTube One Washington Square San José, CA 95192 408-924-1000 Accessibility Title IX Diversity Land Acknowledgement Privacy Colleges Business Education Engineering Graduate Studies Health and Human Sciences Humanities and the Arts Professional and Global Education Science Social Science Resources A-Z Index Annual Security Report [pdf] Bookstore Calendars Careers and Jobs Catalog Current Students Emergency Food & Housing King Library Parking and Maps Contact Us Contact Form Directory Doing Business with SJSU Emergency Info Report a Web Problem Report a Title IX Complaint Last Updated Aug 17, 2021