SMU Cox Display Navigation and Site Search SMU Cox School of Business SMU Cox Utility Navigation Students Companies Alumni Apply Contact Us smu.edu Display Navigation Display Search Search SMU SMU Cox Main Navigation At SMU Cox Display At SMU Cox Sub Menu An exceptional school in the heart of a vibrant, global, business-friendly city. Collins Center Cox News Cox Events Graduate Outcomes CoxToday Magazine Academic Departments Career Growth Global Programs Degrees & Programs Display At SMU Cox Sub Menu Rigorous programs within a truly customized academic experience. Master of Science MS in Accounting MS in Business Analytics MS in Finance MS in Management MS Health Promotion Management MS in Sport Management MBA Full-Time Two-Year MBA Full-Time One-Year MBA MBA Direct Professional MBA Online MBA Executive MBA Joint Degrees JD/MBA MA / MBA MS Engineering / MBA Undergraduate Bachelor of Business Administration Non-Degree Executive Education Summer Business Institute Diversity & Inclusion Display At SMU Cox Sub Menu Shaping Leaders for a Changing World. Diversity at Cox Latino Leadership Initiative I Am Latino in America Subiendo Academy at SMU Cox School Dean’s Message Executive Education Display At SMU Cox Sub Menu Meet your career challenges head-on by mining the expertise of the nation's top business leaders. Programs for Individuals Custom Solutions Latino Leadership Initiative HR Roundtable Graduate Certificates Collins Center Learning Culture Display At SMU Cox Sub Menu An innovative learning culture influences the way the world does business. Centers and Institutes Academic Departments Research Business Library NextGen Cox Curriculum People & Community Display At SMU Cox Sub Menu A community where professors know students by name and help them create powerful networks. Students Alumni Faculty Companies Cox Executive Board Cox100 Press Releases Display Search Utility Navigation Students Companies Alumni Apply Contact Us smu.edu Career Growth Career Growth Career Growth Home Graduate Outcomes Career Support Executive Education Career Growth Home Graduate Outcomes Career Support Executive Education You'll feel the power of our innovative career programs from Day 1 — and as your career grows. The Career Management Center You're making an investment in your education. We want to be sure that it pays off. The Cox School's pioneering Career Management Center is your go-to for everything from personalized career strategy and coaching, to personal branding, job search and our innovative mentoring programs. From the moment you enroll at the Cox School till long after graduation, the CMC is ready to help you accelerate or transition your career. Click here to learn more. My career coach helped me develop a personal marketing plan and map my next step. The Pathways Leadership Program at Amazon led to a career in operations at the company and fast track to senior leadership. CJ Cacheris PMBA, 2018 Global Alumni Network Your secret weapon as an SMU Cox graduate is the tight-knit alumni network you're a part of. Ranked by The Economist among top 30 in the world for breadth and effectiveness, our global community is deep and loyal — Cox alums share a strong commitment to supporting and connecting fellow Ponies. With over 41,000 members across the globe, you can think of your global network as LinkedIn on steroids. The network of people I've met over the years in every city is invaluable. No matter where I go, there will always be an SMU Pony there who will be a helping hand. Jennifer Kesterson Two Year MBA, 2015 See Our Global Network Classroom to Boardroom Connections At the Cox School, you can feel the sparks fly between the classroom and the boardroom. The school has deep relationships with industry leaders in Dallas and beyond. Informal roundtables feature senior-level experts from Dallas's Global 500. Industry treks and global programs put you inside the C-suite at home and abroad. Your faculty are connected practitioners, and your mentors are seasoned pros in your field. At Cox, your opportunities to learn from leaders are as broad as your horizon. I established professional relationships in my field and throughout the entrepreneur ecosystem during my time at SMU Cox that I look forward to investing in. The opportunities to create value in Dallas are incredible. Marc Orgass Two year MBA, 2017 See Latest graduate outcomes By the Numbers The world measures the success of an SMU Cox degree by the success of our graduates — and the outcomes speak for themselves. The personal support we provide, the networking opportunities and the powerful global network all add up to a bright future for Cox graduates. 72% of Cox Full-Time MBA graduates get a job offer at graduation. 87% of Cox Full-Time MBA have a job offer within 3 months of graduation. Over 80 top companies interview and hire on the Cox campus — with an 85% hiring rate. Average BBA salary on graduation: $61,805 Average MBA salary on graduation: $103,000 Top industries for Cox graduates: Financial Services Technology Consumer Products Sports & Entertainment Career Treks As a Cox grad student, you’ll travel outside the DFW area to spend time in the trenches at innovative companies in your field and hear firsthand from peer professionals and senior-level execs how they got to where they are now. SMU Cox Footer Utility Nav Give Contact Us Apply © Cox School of Business Southern Methodist University PO Box 750333 Dallas, Texas 75275-0333 214-768-2000 SMU Cox Legal Home SMU Cox on Social Media Facebook Instagram Twitter