Close Alert All Summer Sessions students, including fully online students, must provide proof of vaccination against COVID-19 or submit a request for medical or religious exemption. Learn more >> Skip to main content Summer Sessions Contact Us University of Washington University of Washington About Meet the Team UW & Seattle Courses & Programs Campus Courses Online Courses Intensive Foreign Language Courses Who Can Attend U.S. College Students U.S. High School Students International Students Current & Incoming UW Students Professionals & Other Learners Registration & Costs How to Register Tuition & Fees Key Dates & Deadlines COVID-19 Vaccine Requirement Policies Credits & Grades Resources Contact Us Menu About Meet the Team UW & Seattle Courses & Programs Campus Courses Online Courses Intensive Foreign Language Courses Who Can Attend U.S. College Students U.S. High School Students International Students Current & Incoming UW Students Professionals & Other Learners Registration & Costs How to Register Tuition & Fees Key Dates & Deadlines COVID-19 Vaccine Requirement Policies Credits & Grades Resources Contact Us Featured Story Slideshow Summer Sessions Take advantage of open enrollment at a world-class university. Photo taken in 2013 Make Your Summer Count at the UW Summer Sessions at the University of Washington offers the opportunity for anyone to take a course at one of the world’s top universities. Find a course that fits your needs and learn something new at the UW. Come Study at the UW Attend Summer Sessions as a: U.S. College Student U.S. High School Student International Student Current & Incoming UW Student Professional & Other Learner Pick From a Variety of Courses You can study just about anything you want at the UW in the summer. Choose from more than 1,000 classes in more than 100 fascinating fields of study, from anthropology to zoology. Check Out Courses Learn More in Less Time Pack more in with condensed classes, including intensive foreign language courses and two shorter terms. Learn a Foreign Language Enjoy Summer on Campus Enjoy the scenic UW campus and numerous outdoor activities in and around Seattle in the summer Explore the UW and Seattle Summer 2022 Dates February 7, 2022 Time Schedule and Application Available April 11, 2022, 6 a.m. Priority Registration Opens April 13, 2022, 6 a.m. Registration for Non-UW Students Opens June 21, 2022 Instruction Begins See Key Dates Is Summer Sessions Right For You? Find out why other students decided to enroll in Summer Sessions. Read Story Get Updates Sign up to stay informed about upcoming deadlines and other information about UW Summer Sessions. Sign Up Other Non-Degree Programs UW Non-Degree Enrollment ACCESS Program State Employee Tuition Exemption “The smaller class sizes of UW Summer Sessions are a wonderful, relaxing break from the normal school-day hustle and bustle. It also meant much more face time with instructors; I was able to talk with them almost every day.” Andrew Cunningham Summer Sessions Student University of Washington Be boundless Privacy Terms Brought to you in partnership with UW Continuum College © 2022 University of Washington | Seattle, WA