Skip to main content Search Global dropdown menu Research Support Subject Librarians Reach out to a librarian for specialized help in a discipline. Library Catalog Find books, audio and video, music scores, maps and more. Research Guides Use the best resources we have, picked by librarians. Databases There's a wealth of information to be found through our database subscriptions. Collections Print and digital collections serve as extensions of our teaching and research facilities. Research Services We're available throughout all stages of your research. Quick Links Library Search JSTOR PubMed Make an Appointment Newspapers Journals Collections Program Borrow & Renew Library Catalog Find books, audio and video, music scores, maps and more in the catalog. Borrowing & Requesting Learn how to borrow materials at Dartmouth and from other libraries via BorrowDirect or DartDoc. Tech Loans We've got everything from chargers to a professional portable recording studio. Alumni Access and Resources How to access resources, on and off-campus. Media Discover an extensive range of movies, television series, documentaries, educational programs, audio and more. Off-Campus Access Students, staff, and faculty can access most of our electronic resources off-campus. Quick Links BorrowDirect DartDoc Course Reserves for Faculty Course Reserves for Students Libraries & Spaces Study and Meeting Spaces Book a meeting room for a group or sign up to use a private study room. Hours and Locations Our hours, holiday closings, street addresses and contact information. Baker-Berry Library Our main library houses the humanities, mathematics, music, physical sciences and social sciences collections Biomedical Libraries The Dana and Matthews-Fuller libraries support the disciplines of health and life sciences. Evans Map Room Houses thousands of sheet maps, mapping software, atlases, globes & more. Feldberg Business & Engineering Library Offers support for the Tuck School of Business & Thayer School of Engineering. Jones Media Center Provides facilities & collections for researching, viewing & producing media. Rauner Special Collections Library Includes rare books, manuscripts & more. Sherman Art Library Supports the departments of Art History, Studio Art, as well as the Hood Museum of Art. About Us Hours and Locations Events Latest News Privacy Policy Dean’s Council for Equity and Inclusion Strategic Objectives Visiting & Exhibits Help Library Search Learn about signing into your account, search options and tips, getting to resources and working with citations. Research Support We're committed to partnering with you to enhance and showcase your research. Publishing Support We provide consultation focusing on opportunities in digital publishing and scholarship. Subject Librarians We have a subject librarian for your major who wants to help! Teaching Support We have librarians who specializes in your subject area and can support your students’ learning. Workshops & Events We offer a variety of events to assist you in developing skills ranging from research to programming. Quick Links Contact Us FAQs Off-Campus Access Send Us Feedback Staff Directory Login Students, Faculty & Staff DHMC & Guests Alumni BorrowDirect DartDoc Toggle navigation Search Global dropdown menu Research Support Borrow & Renew Libraries & Spaces Help Login Students, Faculty & Staff DHMC & Guests Alumni BorrowDirect DartDoc Accessibility We are committed to serving everyone in the Dartmouth community. Visitors with disabilities can ask for help in person at any service desk or by phone, email, or chat. Call specific libraries for advice on access and to make an appointment for reference assistance. Special accommodation requests not addressed below may be directed to David Sturges, Head of Access and Delivery Services, at 603-646-9294. If you cannot access content or use features on the Dartmouth Library website due to a disability or other accessibility-related issue, please contact us. Service Animals in the Dartmouth Library Service animals and service animal trainees are allowed in the Dartmouth College Library buildings. No other animals are admitted. The library may exclude a service animal from the facility if that animal's behavior poses a direct threat to the health or safety of others, or when its behavior creates a disruption to activities going on around it. Definition of a service animal: "Service animals are animals that are individually trained to perform tasks for people with disabilities-such as guiding people who are blind, alerting people who are deaf, pulling wheelchairs, alerting and protecting a person who is having a seizure, or performing other special tasks. Service animals are working animals, not pets." If they meet this definition, animals are considered service animals under the ADA regardless of whether they have been licensed or certified by a state or local government. See: ADA Business Brief: Service Animals, April 2010. Locating or Reaching Library Materials Library staff members will assist with locating or reaching shelved Library materials. Provide the location information of your items to any circulation desk and a staff person will retrieve the items for you. You can also press the "REQUEST" button in our catalog, and the item will be retrieved from the stacks or shelves and delivered to the main circulation desk of your preferred library. Borrowing Library Materials Using a Proxy Patrons who need regular assistance may request to add a proxy borrower to their account. Please contact staff at the Baker-Berry Circulation Desk at 603-646-2567 or baker.circulation@dartmouth.edu. Assisted Photocopying/Scanning For those with long-term needs, please contact Student Accessibility Services. Circulation staff can assist as needed with immediate needs. HathiTrust: Access to Digitized Material As a partner of HathiTrust, we can provide eligible patrons with print disabilities special access to all digitized in-copyright material in the HathiTrust Digital Library. Eligible patrons are affiliates of Dartmouth College who have a print disability for which access to digital copies of library books is a reasonable and appropriate accommodation. A print disability is defined as any disability that prevents you from being able to read a print book, which includes vision impairment, cognitive impairments, learning disabilities, physical disability, or other impairment. For more information or to submit a request, please contact us at hathitrustrequests@dartmouth.edu. Accessibility at our libraries Baker-Berry Parking Accessible parking on College Street and North Main Street. Entrance/Elevator Only the North Main Street entrance is not accessible. It does not have an elevator and requires climbing stairs. Restrooms Accessible restrooms on each floor of the Berry side of the library. Dana Parking Maynard Street lot and the lower Dewey Field Road lot. Entrance/Elevator Enter through the main entrance from the Maynard St. lot (Mon-Fri: 7:30am-6pm), turn right at the sitting area and use the elevator just past the kitchen. Dana is on Level 3. Using the rear entrance, the elevator is to the right after exiting the vestibule. Restrooms Men's room is located opposite the elevator. The women's is to the left and around the corner to the right when exiting the elevator. Water fountain is located on the left as you exit the elevator. Matthews-Fuller Parking The main entrance of DHMC. Entrance/Elevator Take the elevators behind the information desk to the 5th floor and the entrance is in front of you. Restrooms Restrooms located right outside, to the left and right. Water fountains located in the study room. Rauner Parking Metered parking available on College Street. Entrance/Elevator Enter through the main foyer of Webster Hall, via an elevator that is accessible to the outside at street level, just to the left of the main stairs. Restrooms Accessible restrooms are located on the basement level of Webster Hall, which is reachable via elevator. Water fountains are located next to the lockers in the main foyer of Webster Hall. Sherman Parking Accessible parking located near the entrances to Baker East (which provides elevator access to the main floor of Baker-Berry and Sherman) and Baker West. Entrance/Elevator The main entrance to Baker-Berry which connects to Sherman is handicap accessible. Baker East is also handicap accessible, and has an elevator that connects to the main floor of Sherman and Baker-Berry. Arrangements may also be made to enter via the Baker-Berry loading dock area which has an elevator. Elevator located at the Baker East entrance, and at the loading dock, which leads to the main floor of Baker-Berry, and connects to Sherman. There is not an accessible elevator in Sherman. Restrooms Accessible restrooms are available on the main floor of Baker-Berry Library down the hall from Sherman Library. Other Resources Student Accessibility Services Document Conversion Self-service Document Conversion Communication Access Real-time Translation (CART) Audiobooks Libraries & Spaces Study and Meeting Spaces Accessibility Book a Study Room Floor Guides Lockers Scholarly Longterm Studies Teaching Spaces Hours and Locations Baker-Berry Library Biomedical Libraries Evans Map Room Feldberg Business & Engineering Library Jones Media Center Rauner Special Collections Library Sherman Art Library About Us Hours and Locations Events Latest News Privacy Policy Dean’s Council for Equity and Inclusion Strategic Objectives Visiting & Exhibits Dartmouth Library Baker-Berry Library Book Arts Workshop Evans Map Room Jones Media Center Biomedical Libraries Feldberg Business & Engineering Library Rauner Special Collections Library Records Management Sherman Art Library About Us Strategic Objectives Staff & Departments Subject Librarians Alumni Services Visiting & History Accessibility Library Catalog Careers Friends of the Library More About Us Contact Us 25 North Main Street Hanover, NH, USA 03755 Phone: 603-646-2567 Contact Us Give Us Feedback Connect with Us Facebook Instagram YouTube Footer copyright Dartmouth Copyright © 2020 Trustees of Dartmouth College Privacy