COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW Student Life Section Menu Student Life Arts and Culture Campus Recreation Dining Diversity Explore Wichita Health and Wellness Activities and Traditions Housing and Residence Life Rhatigan Student Center Student Engagement, Advocacy and Leadership Student Government Association Student Advocate Student Conduct Graduate Student Council Stop Video Find out more about becoming a Shocker.Request info On and off campus, Shockers have access to all the arts, entertainment and traditional college fun they could want. We're talking more than 350 annual on-campus events, action-packed athletics, interaction with people from all over the globe and a city teeming with galleries, stages, shopping and great eats. Apply Now Our Beautiful Campus Wichita State's 330-acre main campus is a wonderful mix of cutting-edge facilities and ivy-covered brick in a park-like setting. Our classrooms and student housing are just steps away from restaurants, coffeehouses, sports facilities and cultural attractions, with more on the way in our on-campus Braeburn Square development. Best of all, our proximity to business and industry partners puts you right next door to applied learning opportunities like internships, mentorships and co-ops. Interactive Campus Map Take the virtual admissions tour Housing Living on campus puts you in the center of it all. Our three facilities, Shocker Hall, The Suites, and The Flats, are complete communities with lounges, study rooms, game rooms, laundry and plenty of places to hang out. Dining, Coffee, Food Trucks Whether you want a big brunch, a quick latte, or a delicious street taco served from a truck, campus offers a variety of tasty choices—early or late. Check out what we offer and see what's on the menu today. Wichitawesome! Part of what makes WSU a fantastic choice for students is the city we call home. As Kansas' largest city—with a growing population of nearly 700,000—Wichita is just the right size: Big enough for great nightlife, concerts and fun, but still with a low cost of living and friendly Midwestern feel. Learn more about Wichita Play Play Video VIDEO: Student Life at Wichita State Catch a glimpse of the student life at Wichita State! With weekly activities and events, you are sure to have a great time as part of Shocker Nation. Calendar of Events Explore Shocker Life Arts & Culture Activities & Traditions Fraternity & Sorority Life Student Government Student Engagement, Advocacy & Leadership Diversity Health & Wellness Explore Wichita 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©