Georgetown University Open Search Form Who We Are The Whole Person Our Catholic & Jesuit Heritage Our History Student Stories Faculty Stories Alumni Stories Campus & City Living in DC Opportunities Getting Around Service & Action Campus Life Housing On-Campus Dining Clubs & Organizations Arts & Culture Community & Diversity Student Life Blog Wellness & Safety Sports & Fitness Health Center Safety & Emergency Preparedness Athletics External Link Academic Life Restless Inquiry Our Schools Areas of Study Study Abroad Research Centers and Programs Global Initiatives External Link Library System Admissions & Aid Undergraduate Admissions External Link Graduate Admissions Financial Aid External Link Commitment to Access News Events Giving Alumni Info For Students Faculty Staff/AAP Alumni Parents Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Content Skip to Footer News Events Giving Alumni Info For Students Faculty Staff/AAP Alumni Parents Georgetown University Who We Are The Whole Person Our Catholic & Jesuit Heritage Our History Student Stories Faculty Stories Alumni Stories Campus & City Living in DC Opportunities Getting Around Service & Action Campus Life Housing On-Campus Dining Clubs & Organizations Arts & Culture Community & Diversity Student Life Blog Wellness & Safety Sports & Fitness Health Center Safety & Emergency Preparedness Athletics External Link Academic Life Restless Inquiry Our Schools Areas of Study Study Abroad Research Centers and Programs Global Initiatives External Link Library System Admissions & Aid Undergraduate Admissions External Link Graduate Admissions Financial Aid External Link Commitment to Access Open Search Form Georgetown University Home Admissions & Aid Commitment to Access Commitment to Access Your passion and intellect are important to us. Once you’re accepted and qualify for financial help, we meet 100 percent of your needs. Once you’re here, we provide strong resources and support to help you thrive as part of our diverse community. Quick Links Financial Aid Equity & Inclusion Admissions Play Youtube Video How Does Financial Aid Work? To create a diverse community, we became one of the first schools more than four decades ago to meet full financial need of eligible admitted students. Discover how we ensure the nation’s brightest and most motivated students get the opportunity to study here. Learn More A Testimonial “I felt comfort in knowing there were other scholars similarly struggling and adapting to an environment they weren’t used to.” Emmanuel’s Story 600+ GSP Students Enrolled at Georgetown 96% Graduation Rate for GSP Students 10 Family Dinners hosted every semester by GSP 1 of 1 Previous Slide Next Slide Our Undocumented Students As a Catholic and Jesuit institution, we value the dignity of every member of our community, regardless of immigration status. We are committed to supporting undocumented students and the unique challenges they face. Undocumented Student Resources Play Youtube Video Community Scholars Program Georgetown, a leader in creating avenues for educational access and affordability, celebrates its commitment to helping first-generation, high-financial need and other underrepresented students realize their full potential and flourish academically through campus involvement and beyond. CSP at 50 Play Youtube Video Serving those who served our country Our Veterans Office fosters a campus culture of caring for the entire spectrum of military students and connects them with the benefits and resources they need to successfully transition from service to classroom to career. Veterans Office Contact Us Directory Visit Maps About Academic Calendar Careers Media Resources FacebookFacebook TwitterTwitter InstagramInstagram LinkedInLinkedIn YouTubeYouTube Georgetown University 37th and O Streets, N.W. Washington, D.C. 20057 P. 202-687-0100 Georgetown University Privacy Policy Copyright Web Accessibility Notice of Non-Discrimination © 2022 Georgetown University Search Georgetown Search Close the Search Dialog