COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW WSU Police Department Section Menu WSU Police Department Home About Us After-Hour Building Access Annual Security and Fire Safety Report Campus Safety Crime Prevention Daily Crime Log Emergency Calls Forms Lost and Found Registered Sex Offenders Security Alerts Traffic and Parking Information University Emergencies Rewards Wichita State University Police Department Mission Statement Our mission is to ensure our entire community receives quality law enforcement services in a fair and compassionate manner while enhancing the educational experience of our students by providing them with guidance and support. Core Values Professionalism. We will remain faithfully committed to providing the highest quality of law enforcement services while having a clear sense of commitment, perspective and direction. Integrity. We are committed to performing our duties in an honorable manner while adhering to the “Law Enforcement Code of Ethics.” Personal Responsibility. We expect to be held accountable for the decisions we make and the actions we take both professionally and personally. Effective Collaboration. Recognizing that the university is part of a larger community; we will collaborate with all stakeholders to identify, prevent and solve problems of crime or the fear of crime. Round-the-clock protection The Wichita State University Police Department is a commissioned law enforcement agency and the 4th largest in Sedgwick County. The department is divided into two divisions, each headed by a Captain who reports to the Chief of Police. Wichita State University is constantly focused on maintaining a safe, secure learning environment. The University Police Department is a round-the-clock presence on the WSU campus. In addition to patrols and traffic control, its officers provide additional services such as safety escorts and jump starts for dead car batteries. Contact Us 1845 Fairmount St. Wichita, Kansas 67260-0003 Email 911 Emergency TDD: 316-858-7007 316-978-3450 Fax: 316-978-3184 Parking: 316-978-5526 (M-F, 8-5), after buiness hours call OneStop at 855-978-1787 Lost and Found: 316-978-5527(M-F, 8-5) facebook twitter 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©