Skip Navigation California State University, Fullerton Site Menu Division of Student Affairs Main Navigation Our Story Show Extended Division of Student Affairs Welcome Leadership Team Organizational Chart Our Purpose Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Assessment Programs Professional Development Staff of the Month Program Publications Faculty Resource Page Student Employment University Employment Contact Us California State University, Fullerton 2018-2023 Strategic Plan Branding Campus News Donate Facts & Figures College Access and Career Pathways Engagement and Well-Being Identity and Belonging Virtual Student Services Associated Students Inc., CSUF Titan Athletics Academic Appeals Title IX and Gender Equity Show Extended Notice of Non-Discrimination on the Basis of Gender or Sex Hispanic-Serving Institution Initiatives Virtual Student Services Dear Titans, We hope that you and your loved ones are well. Below you will find a list of student services available to you. Please know that the university remains committed to delivering the student experience that you deserve, even as we connect in a predominantly virtual environment. Be well, be joyous! Tonantzin Oseguera Vice President Division of Student Affairs Virtual Student Services Department/Program Link to Virtual Service Description of Virtual Service African American Resource Center AARC Programming @csufaarc on Instagram This virtual hangout is a dedicated space for frequent visitors of the African American Resource Center. Students, faculty and staff are welcome to join the hangout to engage in community. Asian Pacific American Resource Center APARC Programming @csufaparc on Instagram The Asian Pacific American Resource Center fosters the holistic development of its Asian American Pacific Islander (AAPI) community through caring, culturally responsive theory driven practices, and by encouraging the engagement of its campus AAPI community, resource centers, affiliated partnerships, community leaders, and allies whose reach may extend statewide, nationally, and internationally. Assistant Deans for Student Affairs Assistant Deans Homepage Assistant Deans for Student Affairs work in collaboration with academic colleges, CSUF Irvine Center, Tuffy's Graduation Scholars, and Office of First Year Experience to integrate co-curricular programs into the academic setting. Follow us on Instagram (csuf_assistantdeans) for more. Assistant Dean College of the Arts COTA Student Success Center COTA Academic Departments/Major Advising The College of the Arts Student Success Center and the academic departments are available to support your academic, personal, and career-related needs. Your Student Success Team continues to provide general education (GE), probation, graduation, and career virtual advising. We also offer scholarship resources, leadership opportunities, and campus resources information. Assistant Dean College of Communications CCOM Inter-Club Council (CICC) Virtual Advising Center An online list of virtual campus resources for College of Communications students; Weekly 1:1 Zoom Conference Drop-in Hour for College of Communications students to ask questions, say hello, and share concerns. Assistant Dean College of Education College of Education Homepage Center for Careers in Teaching Virtual Services COE Inter-Club Council Due to the COVID 19 crisis our physical offices will remain closed through May 22, 2020. During this time of telecommuting, all departments and offices are maintaining normal work hours and are available to support your needs. All faculty and staff are still available via email and/or phone. Zoom (virtual meeting space) will be used for advising and/or informational (overview) sessions. Please contact specific departments for more details. We are here to support you. Assistant Dean College of Engineering & Computer Science ECS Virtual Services Advising and tutoring information. Assistant Dean College of Health and Human Development HHD Student Success Team HHD Department/Major Advising The College of Health and Human Development Success Team strives to provide services to help students achieve their academic and career goals and graduate on time. Assistant Dean College of Humanities and Social Sciences HSS Student Success Center HSS Inter-Club Council HSS Theme Community HSS Student Success Center on Instagram HSS Inter-Club Council on Instagram The HSS Student Success Team is here to virtually support your academic, personal, and social needs. We offer academic advising, career advising, leadership development opportunities, scholarship resources, and information about study abroad and Cal State DC programs. We have implemented a virtual front desk and can also be reached by email (hssuccessteam@fullerton.edu) or phone (657-278-2594) as indicated on our HSS Student Success Center website. Additionally, HSS has created a Virtual Resource Guide website with tips related to stress, online learning, working from home, and on-campus resources. To continue to stay informed, please check your CSUF email and we encourage you to follow our Instagram accounts that can be found on the left. Please know that while our physical Student Success Center resources are not available in-person, we are 100% here for you virtually. Assistant Dean College of Business and Economics CSUF College of Business Economics Homepage Undergraduate Advising; Career Services and Tutoring (individual sites have updated information about virtual services). Assistant Dean College of Natural Sciences & Mathematics NSM Inter-Club Council NSM Dial-in With the Deans NSM on Instagram NSM Inter-Club Council on Instagram NSM Student Success Center on Instagram College of Natural Sciences & Mathematics Student Success Team virtual front desk, tutoring, and contacts for team. Associated Students Inc., CSUF Associated Students Inc. Homepage Student Recreation Center National Recreation Movement F45 (Register with your CSUF email) The Associated Students provides for student governance, shared governance of the university, programming of student activities, funding of campus organizations and athletics, and the operation of a nationally accredited child development center. ASI provides student development opportunities through leadership, volunteer, and employment experiences. In addition, the Associated Students provides campus community members with important social, cultural, and recreational opportunities, as well as, a wide range of programs and services. The Associated Students encourages and supports the activities of all CSUF recognized student organizations whose activities stimulate individual and group participation within the university community. Athletics Academic Services Advisement, Tutoring and Titan DEGREE Program Athletics Academic Services is offering the following services and programming virtually: Academic Advisement, Academic Counseling, Tutoring, and the Titan DEGREE (Division I, Eligibility, Graduation, Retention, Engage, Empower) Program. Career Center Career Center Website Virtual Scheduled Career Counseling Appointments; Live Drop-in Chats with Career Coaches; Online Workshops via Zoom; Online Virtual Resources: Vmock Resume prep, Titan Connection Jobs Database, Roadtrip Nation, Ferguson Career Guidance Database, Mock Interview Practice, Virtual Career Guide Center for Internships & Community Engagement Center for Internships & Community Engagement Homepage Please visit the Center for Internships & Community Engagement website for information and processes regarding academic internships and service-learning courses. Center for Scholars Center for Scholars Updates and Resources The Center for Scholars continues to host academic and career advising; provide resources for academic and basic needs; scholarships for educational and basic needs purposes; Counseling and Psychological Services (liaison); and monthly scholar meetings. Counseling and Psychological Services Counseling and Psychological Services Homepage The Counseling & Psychological Services (CAPS) is providing 24/7 crisis phone sessions at (657) 278-3040. In addition, CAPS counselors are continuing therapy sessions for current CAPS students. Students are also encouraged to visit: https://you.fullerton.edu – a new virtual wellness platform. YOU@Fullerton provides evidence-based articles, videos, and relevant CSUF resources that support your personal goals and general wellness. CSUF Irvine Center Irvine Center Student Success Team The Irvine Center will be temporarily closed as part of the University’s responses to the NOVEL CORONAVIRUS (COVID-19) until May 22, 2020 (see http://coronavirus.fullerton.edu/ for updates). The Irvine Center Library, TSU, Fitness Center, Titan Shops and Live Scan have suspended their operations. All Irvine Center Student Success, Administrative Support, and Information Technology Staff are now working virtually. Dean of Students Dean of Students Homepage Dean of Students on Instagram The Office of the Dean of Students will be working remotely until otherwise noted in order to practice social distancing as currently recommended by the CDC. During this time, voice mail and email will be checked regularly throughout the day, but it may take us slightly longer than usual to respond. Rest assured that we will do our best to respond within one business day to all calls and emails. We will continue to meet with students through virtual platforms and will be contacting students individually with details. Disability Support Services DSS Virtual Instruction Disability Support Services Homepage DSS Virtual Instruction Resources for Faculty DSS Virtual Student Resources Disability Support Services on Instagram (@csuf_dss) Disability Support Services (DSS) is available to support you and answer any questions or concerns that you may have during this time! DSS staff will be responding to emails and inquiries remotely and meeting with students via Zoom during our usual 8am - 5pm business hours. We also have virtual resources and support available for students and faculty on our website. Diversity Initiatives and Resource Centers Diversity Initiatives and Resource Centers Homepage DIRC Programming @csufdirc on Instagram The DIRC Staff is telecommuting and creating opportunities for students to stay connected and engaged through virtual formats. Educational Opportunity Program Educational Opportunity Program on Instagram EOP Admissions: Working remotely and processing EOP applications; EOP Services: EOP counselors working remotely and meeting with students via technology. Peer Mentors connecting with their mentees via email and Zoom. Educational Partnerships Educational Partnerships - McNair Scholars Educational Partnerships - Upward Bound Educational Partnerships - Talent Search Educational Partnerships - Gear Up Educational Partnerships provides opportunities aimed at helping students progress onto college and be successful throughout the higher education pipeline. We believe in fostering collaborative relationships with schools, districts, and community organizations to provide enriching educational experiences that impact the lives of students, especially those who come from first-generation, low-income, and underrepresented backgrounds. Health Services Student Health Services Homepage Health Services (HS) is the organization responsible for the health care of the students on campus. Students are encouraged to be a partner in their health and health care and to engage in conversations with their health care providers about treatment options and alternatives, effective prevention techniques and strategies, and appropriate testing, results and medications. HS is fully accredited by the Accreditation Association of Ambulatory Health Care. Housing and Residential Engagement Housing and Residential Engagement Programming Residential Engagement Programming- to be shared with residential students via RAs; Zoom Conference appointments for current and future students with full-time staff Latinx Community Resource Center LCRC Programming @lcrc_csuf on Instagram The Latinx Community Resource Center will continue to host virtual community hangouts. The CSUF community can join to discuss, hangout, and play online games. Virtual community guidelines are expected to be followed. LGBT Queer Resource Center LGBTQRC Programming @lgbtq.csuf on Instagram LGBTQ+ students, staff, faculty, and allies continue to have the chance to connect and engage with the community. Hours are held Monday, Wednesday, and Friday. Male Success Initiative-Fullerton Male Success Initiative Homepage MSI-Virtual Service The MSI-Fullerton Team remains available via online and limited telephone services M-F from 8am - 5pm. Our team has transitioning all essential academic & retention based services to virtual modes which currently included: all scholarship support and academic coaching services, key MSI-Fullerton retention based programming, and altered versions of the MSI Pillars of Potential Curriculum via passive & interactive virtual practices for all current brothers (MSI-Scholars & Fellows). To increase virtual engagement, we have created a temporary “ MSI-Virtual Services ” webpage. Refer to this webpage prior to communicating with the MSI-Fullerton department during our temporary telecommuting period. If you have questions outside of what is covered in this document, please contact us directly primarily via email at csufmsi@fullerton.edu . Office of Financial Aid Office of Financial Aid Homepage Financial Aid full-service phone center: (657) 278-3125 The Office of Financial Aid has several virtual Service Platforms: Service Now: http://www.fullerton.edu/financialaid exists to create an electronic ticketing system for continuing students to submit their inquiries and receive responses with in 24 hours. Financial Aid Questions site: http://www.fullerton.edu/financialaid/ is for prospective students and their families to create electronic inquires about Financial Aid at CSUF and receive a response within 24 hours. Electronic Document Submission: https://erpicnprd.fullerton.edu/forms/anon/org/app/20243bb1-b258-4cfc-8732-fbaad9575058/launch/index.html?form=F_StudentLoginForm The Electronic Document Submission platform allows students to submit all of their required verification documents safely and securely from the comfort of their own home. Zoom: We are offering Financial Aid Counseling Appointments Email: financialaid@fullerton.edu student inquires via email Financial Aid website: http://www.fullerton.edu/financialaid/ is where we have updated frequently asked questions and provided information for relevant student Financial Aid topics. Office of First Year Experience OFYE Resources The Office of First Year Experience has communicated with students via email and social media how our staff has transitioned to virtual support of their needs - we are available via email and Zoom as needed. Additionally, a bi-weekly newsletter from our program is being sent out to students to provide additional information and updates regarding our virtual transition and services as things change. Our staff has been meeting with students via Zoom to provide support as needed, and we have been sending personalized emails to students to check in on their well-being. We are also hosting academic support and community engagement opportunities via Zoom, and will soon reach out to campus partners to conduct a Q&A series via Instagram (IGTV) @csuf_ofye, seeking to address questions and concerns students have regarding key areas of the University (i.e. Dean of Students, Financial Aid, Titan Well, etc.). Our website is being updated to reflect each of these changes. Outreach & Recruitment Outreach & Recruitment Homepage Virtual Campus Tours Virtual Welcome Day Prospective and newly admitted students are able to make Zoom appointments to chat with an Outreach & Recruitment Counselor to discuss Next Steps and other pertinent questions related to on-boarding. They can take a virtual tour of campus. They can participate in virtual webinars or watch videos about CSUF to decide whether this is their school of choice. Student Health Center Student Health Center Homepage The Student Health Center is available for COVID-19 phone consultations for students by calling (657) 278-2800. The Student Health Center can provide phone appointments, information on home care for COVID-19 related symptoms, information about self-isolation, and testing information. Student Life & Leadership Student Life & Leadership Homepage Student Life & Leadership offers multiple involvement opportunities for students including: Campus Activities, Fraternity & Sorority Life, Clubs & Organizations, Club Sports, Community Service & Leadership Programs, and Venue Reservations. Students are encouraged to get involved with Student Life & Leadership programs and services to explore the co-curricular activities outside of the classroom and enhance their Titan Experience. Supplemental Instruction Supplemental Instruction Schedule Please visit the SI schedule at www.fullerton.edu/si/ for more information. Titan Dreamers Resource Center TDRC Programming The Titan Dreamers Resource Center continues to provide a place of scholarship, support, and advocacy, even while we connect remotely. Follow us on Instagram (@csuf_tdrc) for more. Titan Recreation Titan Recreation Website Titan Recreation Portal Fall 2020 National Recreation Movement F45 (Register with your CSUF email) Titan Recreation Student Recreation Center Titan Recreation is a part of Associated Students Inc. (ASI) at California State University, Fullerton. Collegerank.net named the Student Recreation Center (SRC) one of the 35 most luxurious student recreation centers in the United States. With everything from an indoor rock wall to a martial arts studio, the SRC has something for everyone. Our mission is to provide innovative and inclusive recreational opportunities to inspire the development and well-being of the student and campus community. Our vision is impactful participation in recreation by all. TitanWell TitanWell Homepage TitanWell is responsible for the promotion of healthy choices and behaviors amongst our diverse Titan community. Through individual counseling, group presentations, outreach events, and peer-to-peer education, we’re here for you. Title IX Title IX Homepage In order to make sure Cal State Fullerton is in compliance with Title IX, the Title IX and Gender Equity Office is responsible for ensuring that all programs and activities at Cal State Fullerton are free from sex and gender-based discrimination. TRIO Student Support Services Student Support Services Homepage Academic and general advising for Student Support Services program participants via zoom and phone. Appointments are made through Calendly links to the counselor calendars. Tuffy's Basic Needs Services Center Tuffy's Basic Needs Services Online Tuffy’s Basic Needs Services Center (TBNSC) continues to support students virtually. Students can receive referrals to housing and food insecure resources and students can submit emergency grant requests. Also, students can pick up hygiene products at the Student Health Center. Questions? Email: basicneeds@fullerton.edu. Tuffy's Graduation Scholars Scholars Tuffy's Graduation Scholars Homepage Tuffy’s Graduation Scholars serves students who are currently active in the Tuffy’s Graduation Scholar Program. Scholars with general questions can reach out to us via e-mail at tgs@fullerton.edu or drop-in hours at our Virtual Office Desk. All of our contact information can be found on our website: www.fullerton.edu/tgs/contactus University Learning Center University Learning Center Homepage The carefully selected and certified University Learning Center tutors support students in most CSUF undergraduate general education courses. We offer one-on-one (as well as groups of three from the same course) peer tutoring and many more services to help you reach your academic goals. See the website to make a virtual appointment with a tutor. Veterans Resource Center Veterans Resource Center Online The Veterans Resource Center has developed the following since transitioning to online student support services: A comprehensive FAQ Sheet was developed and posted to the website and emailed to every military-connected student veteran; signature blocks are updated with current information; a text messaging service was implemented for emergency updates and changes. The VRC is currently developing a social media campaign to engage and inform military-connected students on the current status of the center, university, and nation. WoMen's and Adult Reentry Center WoMen's and Adult Reentry Center Homepage WARC Facebook WARC Instagram The WoMen's and Adult Reentry Center is offering free and confidential advocacy appointments via phone or via video conferencing during this time of campus closure. Out of care for health and safety as well as recommendations from health agencies to limit the exposure and/or transmission of COVID-19, advocacy services will be limited to emotional support, case management, safety planning, assistance with academic accommodations, and referrals to campus or community resources. At this time, we can assist with explaining and answering questions about the Title IX and legal reporting processes, but will only be providing virtual accompaniment for Title IX cases. **Subject to Change** YOU@Fullerton you.fullerton.edu YOU@Fullerton is CSUF’s new virtual wellness platform created for YOU! It provides evidence-based articles, videos, and relevant resources to support your personal goals, mental health, and physical wellness. To begin, visit: you.fullerton.edu. Virtual Student Services | Division of Academic Affairs Link to Virtual Service Description of Virtual Service Academic Advisement Center The mission of the Academic Advisement Center (AAC) is to work in a collaborative partnership with students, a shared responsibility, where the adviser and student are equally invested in the educational process and holistic development of the student. Office of First Year Experience The Office of First Year Experience (OFYE) connects first year students who are undeclared to a community of first year-focused faculty, professional staff, and peer mentors who will serve as partners in helping navigate the campus and connecting OFYE students to the Titan experience, both academically and socially. Office of Graduate Studies The Office of Graduate Studies provides high-quality educational experiences for students from diverse cultural and economic backgrounds. through master's and doctoral programs, and much more. Pollak Library The Pollak Library at California State University, Fullerton serves nearly 40,000 students and 2,100 full- and part-time faculty members. Established in 1959, the Library was officially renamed the The Paulina June and George Pollak Library in 1998 in recognition of a $1 million donation received from the Pollaks. Student Success Central Student Success Central is a comprehensive resource page for students to discover myriad academic support services. Student Success Teams Student Success Teams at Cal State Fullerton comprise a unique, highly personalized, award-winning national model for empowering you, our students, to reach your goals. Tutoring Services The University Learning Center (ULC) provides currently enrolled and matriculated CSUF students with one-to-one peer tutoring, online writing review, and many additional services to help you reach your academic goals. Undergraduate Studies & General Education The Office of Undergraduate Studies and General Education works with the faculty to develop and refine courses and academic programs that will ensure that our students succeed not only in the classroom, but also in their professional careers. This site is maintained by Division of Student Affairs. Last Published 4/12/22 To report problems or comments with this site, please contact danielramirez@fullerton.edu. © California State University, Fullerton. All Rights Reserved. Web Accessibility CSUF is committed to ensuring equal accessibility to our users. Let us know about any accessibility problems you encounter using this website. We'll do our best to improve things and get you the information you need. Resources: Download Adobe Acrobat Reader Adobe Reader Download Word viewer, or download Excel viewer, or download PowerPoint viewer Microsoft Viewers Report An ATI Issue Accessible @ CSUF Version_4.8.10 This page uses javascript to help render elements, if you have problems please enable javascript.