COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW Bachelor of Science Health Management Section Menu Public Health Sciences Home About the Department Faculty / Staff Contact Us Undergraduate Graduate Certificates Administrator-in-Training (AIT) Alumni Career Paths Scholarships College of Health Professions Home Departmental Honors in PHS Request Info Health Management The fast-paced health care environment needs managers with solid business skills who can apply creative approaches to health care delivery and support services. You will be prepared to plan, direct, and coordinate medical and health services and adapt quickly to changes in health care laws, regulations, and technology. Health care is a business with all the challenges of effective and efficient business operations. The demand for health care is increasing, making the training of empathetic, ethical, and effective health care administrators a top priority. You don’t need a stethoscope to make an impact, each day healthcare leaders are making significant contributions to the health and lives of the communities they serve. Through this program you will master the basic business principles and tools needed for effective decision-making while developing strong leadership skills which will be essential to your success. How to Apply Make an Impact You will complete a health management core curriculum to develop a foundational knowledge of health services delivery, population health assessment and leadership. The degree provides firsthand experience with community initiatives and competencies related to culturally informed health care services, planning and assessing health programs, developing strategies for health promotion, and building advocacy relationships with those who make health policy. Program faculty include former hospital CEOs, federally funded researchers, highly acclaimed teachers and well-respected members of the healthcare community. This degree gives you the option to choose from three concentrations related to aging studies, clinical health care management or public health. You also have the opportunity to join the HEALTH student organization. Involvement with HEALTH provides the opportunity to make a difference in your community and provides leadership opportunities. The required applied learning professional portfolio provides a structure to build experiential reflections and educational outcomes, both of which will provide you an edge as you prepare your resume. Health Management Concentrations Aging Studies The aging studies concentration prepares you for a variety of entry level positions in senior centers, senior living communities and nonprofit or for-profit aging organizations and prepares students for graduate education in aging studies through the dual/accelerated bachelor's to master's in Aging Studies. Public Health The public health concentration prepares you for a variety of entry level positions in state and local health departments or health-related nonprofit and for-profit organizations and graduate education in public health. Health Administration The health administration concentration prepares you for a variety of entry level management positions in nonprofit and for-profit clinical health care organizations and graduate education in health administration through the dual/accelerated Master in Health Administration. Information About the Program Curriculum Curriculum for the Bachelor of Science in Health Management is listed in the Wichita State University Undergradaute Catalog. Program Highlights Acquire leadership skills. Build personal and professional leadership, analytic and administrative skills that allow you to serve in a leadership capacity necessary for entry-level managerial positions in the health care sector. Gain hands-on experience. Gain firsthand experience through local community initiatives while completing a practicum in a local health care organization. Establish a network in professional field. Establish relationships within a spectrum of local health care services such as acute care medicine, public and community health, and long-term care. American College of Health Care Executives (ACHE). The health management program is a member of the ACHE Higher Education Network. Dual/Accelerated Bachelor's to Masters options. Earn your master's degree in less time by taking advantage of a dual/accelerated bachelor's to master's degree in the areas of health administration or aging studies. Applied Learning Portfolio. Professional development activities required to provide applied experiences beyond the classroom. Departmental Honors. In-depth exploration of the research area of your choice, one-on-one faculty mentorship and collaboration in scholarly activities. Caring professors. Compassionate, experienced and student focused faculty. Student Spotlight Health Management Capstone students, completed two applied COVID-19 related projects during the Spring 2021 semester. The first was developing a the WSU Partner POD Plan for campus and the second involved a series of peer-to-peer multilingual vaccine information videos. Health Management Capstone students made a difference during the Fall 2020 semester working with WSU Student Health Services on COVID-19 mitigation. Health Management Capstone students worked with the HEALTH Student Organization to implement Tobacco Free Wu and Me, designating WSU as a tobacco free campus. This project took 10 years to accomplish and encompassed the work of dozens of students during the process. The tobacco free policy was implemented on July 1, 2017. Program senior, Ya-Aida Sillah, received 3rd place in the 25th Annual McNair Closing Symposium. Her presentation on Understanding Knowledge of Fall Prevention in Care Homes was the culmination of more than 200 hours of research guided by PHS Faculty Dr. Keene Woods. Taylor Carter, Sp 19, wrote a blog post with the Midwestern Public Health Training Center capturing her experience working as a contact tracer for COVID-19. Madeline Shonka, program senior, established The Co-Immunity Foundation, to serve young people with chronic illnesses. Josh Butler, Sp 17, talks about his experiences as Operations Manager of Environmental Services at Memorial Hermann Katy Hospital. Careers in Health Management The health care industry encompasses a diverse array of organizational settings and management opportunities. You will be prepared to work either in organizations where health care is delivered or in organizations that support health care delivery. Entry-level managers can expect to hold positions such as supervisor, section head or department manager in larger organizations, or managing directors of small organizations. Those seeking executive leadership positions see the dual accelerated bachelor's to master's in health administration. The potential for advancement in the field is great, the health care industry is expected to experience faster than average job growth between 2019 and 2029, (Bureau of Labor Statistics). Our extensive network of alumni serve throughout Kansas and beyond in various health care sectors including, hospitals and health systems, medical practice management, long term care, insurance, electronic health records management and public service. Alumni Job Titles Practice Manager Business Development Manager Electronic Health Records Public Health Program Manager Disease Intervention Specialist Tobacco Educator Non-profit Program Director Operations Manager Health Promotion and Physical Fitness Licensed Nursing Home Administrator Health Facility Manager Marketing in Health Services Health Services Administrator in Long Term Care Alumni Employers Ascension HCA Cerner Corporation University of Kansas Medical Center Kansas Academy of Family Physicians Kansas KIDS Network Crothall Healthcare Medxcel Facilities Management Health Insurance Companies Long Term Care Corporations Hospice Organizations State and County Health Departments Area Agencies on Agin Complementary Minors Students are encouraged to select a minor to compliment their education. Suggested minors include: Management Marketing Human Resources Operations Management Supply Chain Management Community Psychology Certificate Certificate in Applied Communication Dual/Accelerated Bachelor's to Master's Programs Dual/accelerated bachelor's to master's programs are available in both health administration and aging studies. The dual/accelerated programs are designed to prepare you for graduate work at WSU while allowing you to earn dual credit towards your bachelor's degree. Once admitted to the accelerated program you are allowed to enroll in courses for graduate credit (up to 9 credit hours) while completing your undergraduate degree requirements. Dual/accelerated Bachelor of Science (BS) in health management to online Master of Health Administration (MHA). Allowed dual credit hours include HA 621, HA 622, and HA 848. Dual/accelerated bachelor's to online Master's in Aging Studies. Allowed dual credit hours include AGE 717, AGE 798, and AGE 818. Students should apply to the accelerated bachelor's to master's program of their choice early in their junior year. Admission Fall or spring entry. Can be completed in two (2) years. Accommodates flexible study plans including full-time, part-time, with a combination of evening and online synchronous and asynchronous classes. Minimum GPA for admission 2.00. Cost and Requirements Degree Checksheet Tuition and Fees Courses and Requirements Alumni Spotlight The health management degree provided me with an introduction to many aspects of public health and healthcare management. Because I was exposed to so many different aspects of the field, I was able to discover what areas of public health really excited me. -- Summer 2018, Public Health Planner I’ve always wanted to be in the healthcare field. With the health management degree I was given the ability to help people and make a difference within my community (without all the science background). -- Fall 2019, Patient Advocate For me, the practicum was the most crucial part of the degree program. The experience and connections I made there was the critical stepping stone I needed to get me where I am today. -- Spring 2007, Director of Business Intelligence The health management degree is one of the most comprehensive and effective programs at WSU. They truly care about you while you're a student and even when you graduate. -- Summer 2019, Healthy Babies Enrollment Specialist I would recommend the health management degree program for anyone who wants to make a difference in their community and has an interest in health but does not necessarily wish to deliver direct patient care. This program allows students to explore the many different directions this field has to offer and provides a strong public health foundation. As it relates to my career goals and my current graduate program, this degree program provided a strong public health foundation. With an epidemiology focus in my MPH program, I am focused primarily on data analysis and am being educated about specific disease states. My undergraduate studies focused more on public health practice as a whole, emphasizing the importance of policy, finance, and the role of culture in healthcare. I feel that because of my undergraduate studies, I will be a well-rounded public servant.-- Spring 2019, Public Health Associate , MPH Student A degree in Health Management gives you access to the tools you need to begin your journey to provide equitable health care access to all individuals. The program not only gave me the education I need to succeed, but provided me with access to professionals within the community that have helped to lead me to where I am today. -Spring 2019, Project Facilitator, MPH Student This program was very beneficial to my knowledge and understanding of the public health profession and what is needed to actually "flatten the curve" for all health disparities. WSU-PHS is also great prep for the KUMC MPH program, as our students are exposed to topics in public health that most graduate students are experiencing for the first time. This program provides students with the the tools, real-world experience, and connections to step into a public health career right out of the classroom. -- Spring 2012, Community Health Manager I wanted to work with patients in a different way. I was clinical for years and this program gave me the additional insight to start pursuing a focus in Healthcare Administration and helping patients in a different way. The program was very valuable in understanding the whole of the health system. From strategic management to organizational development and even discussing disparities. -- Spring 2009, System Privacy Officer Visit the Health Management Alumni Directory to view more alumni stories. With this degree I was given the ability to help people and make a difference within my community (without all the science background). Health Management Alumni Fall 2019 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©