Facebook Twitter instagram YouTube The RELLIS Campus We Teach Texas EmpowerU Health Science Center Veterans Home Staff Login About Regents Chancellor Offices Academic Affairs Business Affairs Finance General Counsel Governmental Relations Information Technology Internal Audit Marketing And Communications National Laboratories National Security Strategic Initiatives Research Texas Division of Emergency Management SSO Jobs Contact Select Page Research Home Vice Chancellor for Research Joe Elabd, Ph.D. Vice Chancellor for Research Moore/Connally Building, 7th Floor 301 Tarrow Street College Station, Texas 77840-7896 Phone 979.458.5598 Fax: 979.458.6044 Dr. Joe Elabd is the Vice Chancellor for Research at The Texas A&M University System; a system of 11 universities and 8 state agencies with externally funded research expenditures exceeding $1 billion annually. As the leader of the A&M System Office of Research, Dr. Elabd is responsible for providing leadership and services to support all 19 system members in areas including intellectual property and commercialization, research compliance, research development, research partnerships, research security, and research strategy. Dr. Elabd is also a Professor and the Axalta Coating Systems Chair II in the Artie McFerrin Department of Chemical Engineering at Texas A&M University. He is a Fellow of the American Physical Society and served as a Senior Fellow at the Instituto di Studi Avanzati, Università di Bologna and a Scholar in Residence at the Food & Drug Administration. He has received numerous research awards including the NSF CAREER Award, DuPont Science and Engineering Award, and the ARO Young Investigator Award. His research focuses on electrochemical energy (batteries, capacitors, fuel cells) and materials and polymer science and he has authored over 130 research journal publications. Dr. Elabd has taught chemical engineering courses at all levels (freshmen, sophomore, junior, senior, and graduate). Dr. Elabd received his Ph.D. and B.S. both in chemical engineering from Johns Hopkins University and University of Maryland, Baltimore County, respectively, and was a National Research Council Postdoctoral Fellow at the U.S. Army Research Laboratory. Research Home Technology Commercialization Chief Research Officers + Research Compliance Latest TweetsTweets by @tamusystem Latest News 5G Research Testbed at RELLIS Opens for Business of Innovation Regents Add Fort Worth Urban Campus to Capital Plan Texas A&M-Kingsville Alumnus, Robert Vela Jr., Named President A&M-Kingsville Alumnus Named Sole Finalist to Lead Alma Mater Kim McCuistion to lead A&M System’s Downtown Fort Worth Campus Nebraska teen plans return to A&M for grad school after Make-A-Wish visit Useful Links Agenda Items Facts Book Open Records Staff Directory Brand Guide System News System Policies Library System Strategic Plan Facebook Twitter instagram YouTube Copyright © 2021 Texas A&M University System All rights reserved. 301 Tarrow Street, College Station, TX 77840 | MAP | Phone: (979) 458-7700 | email: tamus-webmaster@tamus.edu State of Texas | Texas Homeland Security | Texas Veterans Portal | Statewide Search | Risk, Fraud & Misconduct Hotline | Privacy | Web Accessibility | Campus Carry