Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. Information Technology UCIT right arrow down arrow About right arrow down arrow IT College Contacts Diversity and Inclusion Sitemap Services right arrow down arrow Student Hardware Software right arrow down arrow Student Software Productivity (Students) right arrow down arrow Student Printing with Wepa Computer Labs App & Web Development Research Computing Services Connectivity (Visitors) IT NEXT Get Help right arrow down arrow Report an issue Student Quickstart Guide ResNet Documentation Center Home » About UC » IT@UC » Get Help Set Navigation title in component Report an issue Student Quickstart Guide ResNet Documentation Center Get Technical Help and Support Technology Trouble? IT Happens. Use the information on this page to contact the IT@UC Service Desk for technology questions, whether you need support or have a simple question. Check Self Help Guides on the IT@UC Knowledge Base The KB is home to hundreds of articles, custom UC how-to guides, FAQs and more and is available 24/7. Save yourself time–find the answers you need fast with the IT@UC Knowledge Base (KB). Search the KB Get real-time status of select IT services The IT Services Status module provides real-time updates on 15 essential IT services. You can sign up to receive automated service status notifications via email. View the IT@UC Services Status module Contact the IT@UC Service Desk for general IT issues. The IT@UC Service Desk provides assistance with password resets, data and phone, email, wireless access, VPN, UCFlex, Catalyst and more. Call us: Dial (513) 556-HELP (4357) or (866) 397-3382 from your personal phone. Dial 6-HELP (4357) from a university phone on campus. Then, select option 2. Submit a ticket Contact 24/7 Canopy Support for Canopy/eLearning tool issues. Our Canopy Support team provides around the clock assistance with Canvas and tools within Canvas. Call us: Dial (513) 556-HELP (4357) or (866) 397-3382 from your personal phone. Dial 6-HELP (4357) from a university phone on campus. Then, select option 3. All services available 24 hours a day, 7 days a week, 365 days a year. View IT@UC Service Desk business hours and escalated support right arrow down arrow Get Technical Help and Support Monday - Friday 7:00am - 11:00pm Saturday, Sunday and University Holidays 8:00am – 11:00pm Closed Juneteenth, July 4th, Thanksgiving Day, Christmas Holidays, Winter Season Days, New Year's Day and during inclement weather closings Escalated support NOTE: Escalated Support is available outside of business hours for emergencies only. Monday – Friday 8:00am – 5:00pm; excludes closings and Holidays Escalated support is defined as: Critical system outages (entire system is out of service for all users) Partial outages or degradation of any critical systems, where more than 5 users are affected Any service outage that affects campus safety/security Security breaches Critical systems include (but are not necessarily limited to): Data Center facilities Campus wired/wireless networks Phone system Email Canvas Catalyst UCFlex UC Websites, including individual College websites Identity/authentication services Password Self-Service Server and storage infrastructure More Support Resources Hardware discounts and support right arrow down arrow View opportunities available to students for purchasing discounted hardware and repairing devices. Software discounts and support right arrow down arrow View opportunities available to students for purchasing discounted software. And, ResNet offers remote software support online. Learn more about software discounts and remote software support. Student Quickstart Guide: An IT Guide for new students right arrow down arrow Use this guide to getting your technology set up both before you arrive on campus and after you get settled in. View the UC Student IT Quickstart Guide. View policies, procedures, standards and guidelines right arrow down arrow The IT@UC Documentation Center is a convenient hub for locating and accessing a variety of documentation for policies, standards and guidelines. University of Cincinnati IT@UC - 51 Goodman Dr. Cincinnati, Oh 45221-0658 513-556-HELP (4357) UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati University of Cincinnati IT@UC - 51 Goodman Dr. Cincinnati, Oh 45221-0658 513-556-HELP (4357) © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top