Skip to content Columbia University Irving Medical Center Find People Events Faculty and Staff Resources Give Now Search About Us About Us Facts and Figures Explore CUIMC Events Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion at CUIMC Community Development and Alumni Explore CUIMC Leadership and Administration A-Z Listing Affiliated Hospitals Campus Map and Directions Campus Resources Contact CUIMC Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion At CUIMC, we are committed to continuous improvement in providing culturally inclusive medical education and clinical care. Learn About Our Commitment Education Education Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons Mailman School of Public Health School of Nursing College of Dental Medicine VP&S Columbia Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons is dedicated to developing the next generation of leaders in medicine Learn About Our Academic Programs Research Research The Louisa Gross Horwitz Prize Columbia Technology Ventures Research Administration Columbia Clinical Innovation Lab Patient Care Patient Care ColumbiaDoctors Children's Health Columbia Primary Care Herbert Irving Comprehensive Cancer Center ColumbiaDoctors Dentistry Digital Health Services at Columbia Find a Doctor Search for a provider by specialty, expertise, location and insurance. Schedule an appointment online. Find a Doctor News News For the Media Share Your News CUIMC Update CUIMC Celebrates Columbia Medicine Read the latest news stories about CUIMC faculty, research, and events Explore Our News COVID-19 Resources for CUIMC COVID-19 Resources for CUIMC COVID-19 Information for Patients COVID-19 Campus Safety for Employees and Students COVID-19 Vaccine Information For CUIMC Employees and Students COVID-19 Information and Resources for Clinical Staff COVID-19 Vaccine Information Learn about COVID-19 vaccine availability and requirements for employees and students at CUIMC Get the Latest Information You are here Home > Research > The Louisa Gross Horwitz Prize > Nominate The Louisa Gross Horwitz Prize History Nominate Horwitz Prize Awardees Horwitz Prize Committee Contact Us Columbia Technology Ventures Research Administration Columbia Clinical Innovation Lab Nominate The Louisa Gross Horwitz Prize may be awarded to an individual or group. When the prize is awarded to a group, each member will receive a citation, but the honorarium will be divided among the recipients. Preference is given to work done in the recent past. The Prize Committee recognizes no geographic limitations. Nomination deadline: 5:00 p.m. EST on Janurary 26, 2022 Re-nomination(s) are by invitation only. Self-nominations are not permitted. Prize Qualifications The Prize Committee recognizes no geographical limitations. The prize may be awarded to an individual or group. When the prize is awarded to a group, the honorarium will be divided among the recipients, and each member will receive a citation. Preference will be given to work done in the recent past. How to Submit a Nomination All materials must be written in the English language and submitted electronically. If you are nominating a collaborative team, include completed materials for each nominee. Required materials: Nominator Information Nominee Information Supporting documentation: Research Summary (no more than 500 words) Research Significance (no more than 500 words) Biographical Sketch Key Publication List (up to 10) Curriculum Vitae Nomination deadline has passed. Nomination portal is closed. Columbia University Irving Medical Center NewYork-Presbyterian About Us Careers News Education Patient Care Research Resources at CUIMC Columbia University Irving Medical Center 630 West 168th Street New York, NY 10032 United States Follow Us Facebook Twitter YouTube LinkedIn Instagram Back to top