Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Counseling, Educational Psychology & Research Counseling Counseling Psychology Educational Psychology & Research Faculty and Staff Research Clinical Services Grants & Contracts Alumni & Friends Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact EDPR Menu About EDPR Degrees & Certificates Undergraduate EDPR minor M.S. Online M.S. Ph.D. Graduate Certificate in Qualitative Research Graduate Certificate in Quantitative Research Courses Faculty News Student Resources Admissions ApplyInternational StudentsGraduate AssistantshipsGraduate Catalog View our brochure! Like us on Facebook! Frequently Asked Questions Take Action Apply Now! Student Organizations in CEPR Department News Contact Us Home Counseling, Educational Psychology & Research EDPR Qualitative Certificate Graduate Certificate in Qualitative Research in Education Only students who have been admitted at the graduate level at the University of Memphis are eligible to apply. Graduate students in good standing will be admitted to the certificate program on the recommendation of the student’s advisor and a review of the application materials by the EDPR qualitative research faculty. This is a 2-step application process. Successful applicants must: visit the Graduate School Admission page to apply. complete the Application for Admission Form In order to apply, students must have a minimum GPA of 3.0. In order to earn the certificate, they must complete all Certificate Program course requirements with a B or above average and have a qualitative methodologist sit on their dissertation committee. They must complete the Certificate in Qualitative Research Completion Form and complete the Course History Form. Submit all application materials (in one PDF, if possible) to Melynda Whitwell at mdlong@memphis.edu. Following review, your application will be either approved or returned to you for further discussion and revision. If you have any questions about the application process, please contact Dr. Alison Happel-Parkins at aahappel@memphis.edu or Dr. Susan Nordstrom at snnrdstr@memphis.edu. Students who are not making satisfactory progress will be subject to removal from the program following faculty review. Certificate Coordinators Dr. Alison Happel-Parkins Dr. Susan Nordstrom Certificate Course Requirements The certificate requires 12 semester hours of credit. Below are the required and elective qualitative courses available to students: Required core courses (9 credits): EDPR 7/8561: Introduction to Qualitative Research in Education (Offered Fall and Spring semesters) EDPR 7/8562: Designing Qualitative Research (Offered every Spring semester) EDPR 7/8565: Qualitative Methods and Analysis (Offered every Fall semester) Example Electives (3 credits unless otherwise noted): EDPR 7/8563: Applied Qualitative Theories and Methodologies EDPR 7/8566: Writing Up Qualitative Research (Week-long Spring/Summer Retreat) EDPR 8008: Directed Readings in Qualitative Research EDPR 8081: Supervised Research in Qualitative Inquiry ANTH 7/8075: Methods in Anthropology (4 credits) ANTH 7/8076: Anthropological Data Analysis (4 credits) SOCI 7/8320: Seminar in Methods of Social Research SOCI 7/8325: Seminar in Qualitative Research Methods COMM 7/8332: Seminar in Communication Research: Advanced Qualitative Research Methods COMM 7/8434: Qualitative Research Methods PSYC 7/8312: Qualitative Research Methods in Psychology Because qualitative methods vary across academic disciplines, the way in which the credit hours are packaged may vary. The qualitative coordinators will assist students in developing a program that meets the needs and interests of the individual student while also complying with the certificate requirements. We recognize that many courses across campus can enrich our elective selection. However, we cannot list all current and future potential electives. If a student feels that a course outside of EDPR is appropriate as an elective, the student can complete the Petition for Elective form to be reviewed and approved by the qualitative coordinators. Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 3/17/22 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.