Skip to main content Skip to main content Follow Us Follow Us LinkedIn Follow Us Facebook Follow Us Instagram Follow Us Twitter Skip to main content Log In Log In Student Login Log In Instructor Login Log In Canvas Login Canvas Login My Profile My Applications My Enrollment History My Certificate Plan My Account My Saved Items Log Off Contact Us Contact Us Help Help <span class="sr-only">Number of items in the shopping cart: </span><span id="cartCount"></span> Number of items in the shopping cart: Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. Program Search Programs and Courses Areas of Study Career Building College Prep Communications & Marketing Creative Development Design & UX Engineering & Technology Humanities & Fine Arts Languages Legal & Finance Management & Leadership Program Types Certificate Programs Short Courses Corporate Programs & Customized Learning Instructors Resources for Current Instructors Instructor Portal Canvas for CAPE Instructors Become a CAPE Instructor Propose a Course Help Center New Students Payment Options & Financing Veterans Benefits FAQ Current Students Student Portal Canvas Zoom Instructors Instructor Portal Canvas for Instructors Policies & Procedures Parking & Maps About About Us Contact Us Blog Navigate Search Skip to main content CAPE Program Search All Programs & Courses All Programs & Courses Areas of Study Certificate Programs SMU College Prep Customized Learning Short Courses Areas of Study Areas of Study Career Building Communications and Marketing Creative Development Design and UX Engineering and Technology Humanities and Fine Arts Languages Legal and Finance Management and Leadership Courses Instructors Instructors Propose a Course Help Center Help Center Canvas for CAPE Courses Information about SMU NetIDs Frequently Asked Questions Instructor Portal Parking & Maps Payment Options and Financing Policies and Procedures Student Portal Digital Badges Adding Your SMU Certificate Credential to LinkedIn Veterans Zoom About SMU CAPE About SMU CAPE Contact Us ☰ CAPE Help Center Frequently Asked Questions Frequently Asked Questions COVID-19 INFORMATION SMU continues to place the highest priority on the health and well-being of our campus community and expects everyone to practice good preventive hygiene and regularly monitor their health. Learn more about SMU’s comprehensive efforts to maintain a healthy campus on Mustang Strong, the SMU COVID-19 website. GENERAL INFORMATION What is CAPE? SMU Continuing and Professional Education (CAPE) offers a variety of noncredit programs to enhance your life and help you reach your academic or career goals. CAPE programs include professional certificates and boot camps, short courses, workshops and customized learning experiences. Who do I contact if I need help? The best way to reach us is to write smuthink@smu.edu. You can also call the CAPE office at 214-768-2273. Who is eligible to take CAPE classes? SMU CAPE offers courses available to anyone wanting to advance in their career, prepare for a certification exam, transition into a new career or simply augment their personal skills. Our certificates and courses are specifically designed for adult students 18 years old and older. SMU College Prep, a division of CAPE, offers ambitious middle and high school students the opportunity to explore new interests, dive into topics that ignite passions, and use leading-edge tools in programs led by expert educators. Courses are offered throughout the summer and on weekends during the school year. Formal admission to SMU is not required to enroll in a CAPE course. Participating in a CAPE program does not in itself provide preference in admission to any SMU degree program. I have a great idea for a course. How can I share it? If you'd like to propose a course idea or would like to teach a class for CAPE, please use our online form. SELECTING A CAPE PROGRAM What learning formats, or delivery methods, can I choose from? We offer our programs in a variety of flexible formats to fit your schedule and learning style – including in-person, online and hybrid (blended) options: • In-person classes are held in classrooms across SMU's campus and at selected off-campus locations. You will engage face to face with your classmates and instructors. • Hybrid (Blended) combine online study with in-person instruction. • Live Online classes are delivered in real time, and you will interact with instructors and other students through Zoom and SMU's Learning Management System (Canvas). • On Demand (Self-Paced) classes allow you to complete coursework at your own pace. Coursework may include homework, research, reading, discussion board participation, and other activities. Do CAPE programs have prerequisites? Not necessarily. Some courses may require a certain level of education, prior training, demonstrated skills or previous coursework completed in order to enroll. Be sure to read the details and recommendations listed for a particular course or program. My organization is interested in offering a custom program for our employees. Is that possible? Absolutely! Visit our Customized Learning page to learn more about options. APPLYING TO A PROGRAM Do I have to formally apply, submit transcripts or provide test scores to be accepted into a continuing education course or program? Enrollment requirements for CAPE programs vary, so please read the application instructions and prerequisites for the specific course or program in which you plan to enroll. If you need additional guidance, CAPE staff can assist you. My company is paying my tuition; how do I apply? If your company is paying for your tuition, please contact CAPE at smuthink@smu.edu for application instructions and required forms. What if my preferred program or course is full? You may join the waitlist for courses that have reached maximum enrollment. If space becomes available, or if additional sections are added, waitlisted students will be notified and may proceed with registration. Joining a waitlist does not obligate you to register if/when a space becomes available. What is the application or enrollment deadline to register for CAPE courses? Online registration deadlines may vary by program. Late registration may be possible. If online registration has closed for your preferred course, please contact CAPE at smuthink@smu.edu or 214-768-2273 for other options. REGISTRATION & COSTS How do I register for a course? CAPE class sizes are limited for optimal interaction with instructors. Please register early to secure your spot! Online registration for most CAPE courses is available using the CAPE student portal. If you need registration assistance, please write to smuthink@smu.edu or call 214-768-2273. Can I register and pay tuition when I arrive at my class? No. Students must register and pay before attending a course. Instructors cannot accept registration fees. What if I forget my user name or my password used for online registration? Use the student portal login page to request your user ID and/or password. Click Forgot User Name or Forgot Password to receive an email about your user name or to reset your password. Does SMU CAPE offer a payment plan? We offer payment plans for selected certificate programs. Please check the program details and the Payment Options and Financing page for more information. Are any discounts available? SMU students, alumni, faculty/staff, as well as veterans and employees of nonprofit organizations receive a 10% discount off our courses. If you think you may qualify for a discount, please write to smuthink@smu.edu or call 214-768-2273. Select corporate and group rates are available. Visit our Corporate Development and Training Programs page to learn more. Are veterans or active military entitled to any tuition assistance for continuing education? Yes, veterans and active military can use their GI Bill® benefits for continuing education programs. Benefits and processes vary according to funding available. Please visit our veterans resource page, write to vetresource@smu.edu or call 214-768-1104. Looking for a 1098-T form? The courses offered by SMU Continuing and Professional Education are non-credit programs. As a result, we do not provide 1098-T forms. PREPARING FOR CLASS Where will my class meet? For all CAPE classes, whether delivered in-person or online, you will receive individualized communication before class with further instructions to find your classroom or to access an online meeting room. Where are CAPE’s in-person classes held? In-Person CAPE classes are held in classrooms across SMU's campus and at selected off-campus locations. You will receive a reminder message via email with specific location details before class begins. For assistance to find your classroom location and parking on campus, please consult the SMU Campus Map. Where do I park? You will receive individualized communication before class with further instructions about parking and credentials, if needed. For assistance to find parking on campus, please consult the SMU Campus Map. What do I need to bring to class? Some classes require materials, textbooks, equipment, software or other supplies. For live online courses, we encourage the use of video & audio devices during Zoom meetings to maximize your learning experience. You will receive individualized communication before class with further instructions and recommendations from your instructor. May I bring my laptop to my in-person class? For many CAPE courses, laptops will help you to complete in-class exercises and activities. SMU classrooms generally are not equipped with computers for CAPE students’ use. While attending class on the SMU campus, you may access SMU’s guest wireless network. What is Canvas? Canvas is a learning management system (LMS) that offers CAPE instructors and students a password-protected virtual classroom to interact with each other, share information (including syllabi, pre-recorded videos, documents, and more), submit assignments and to take exams. Visit the online Canvas Help Center for more information about using Canvas. COMPLETING YOUR PROGRAM What is required to successfully complete a CAPE program? Completion requirements vary by program and may include attendance policies, participation expectations, assignments, quizzes, exams or other assessments. Can I earn CEUs, CPE or PDU credit? Many SMU CAPE courses can be used for contact hours or Continuing Education Units (CEUs). Upon request, we can verify student enrollment and hours associated with a course. Please check with a professional organization prior to enrollment to see if your preferred CAPE course may qualify for any professional development credits. Can I take a CAPE course for university academic credit? CAPE courses do not offer college credit, but they can be an excellent way to build professional skills or explore an interest. What will I receive when I complete a certificate program? You will receive a certificate of completion. CAPE partners with Credly to provide you with a digital version of your certificate that you can use to showcase what you’ve accomplished. This digital badge will contain information describing your credential and will allow you to easily share your achievement to LinkedIn and other platforms. If you completed your certificate program before November 1, 2021, you may request a digital badge and certificate by contacting us at smuthink@smu.edu or 214-768-2273. What’s the difference between a certificate program and a certification? Certificates generally indicate a participant has successfully completed an educational program or series of courses. Certification programs are designed to provide training to individuals who are required to have and maintain specific levels of knowledge and skills in their job categories, often as a legal requirement to perform their duties. Certification programs may carry credits and/or may be prerequisites for licensure. Can I get a transcript for my course? Upon request, SMU CAPE offers transcripts for all of our certificate programs. Transcripts cost $10 each. Please write to smuthink@smu.edu or call 214-768-2273 for assistance. If you require a record of enrollment or proof of attendance, please write to smuthink@smu.edu or call 214-768-2273 for assistance. If I receive a certificate from CAPE, am I considered an SMU graduate? No. You are only considered a graduate of SMU when you earn an academic degree from a degree-granting unit or department. However, completing a certificate program at SMU shows potential employers that you have had an educational experience from a highly reputable institution. CANCELLATION AND WITHDRAWALS What if I have to cancel my registration for a CAPE program? Withdrawal and cancellation policies vary by program. Please notify us in writing by sending a message to smuthink@smu.edu if you need to cancel your registration. CAPE staff can assist you with options for transfer, deferment, or withdrawal. Failure to attend class does not constitute withdrawal. Please refer to our Policies and Procedures for more information. Why might a course be cancelled by SMU? While rare, CAPE reserves the right to cancel a course due to insufficient enrollment. Classes may also be cancelled due to inclement weather or other extenuating circumstances. CAPE staff will make every effort to notify students of course cancellations in advance. Should CAPE cancel a course, students may be offered refunds, transfers, or opportunities to place funds in escrow to apply to future enrollments. Need Help? 214-768-2273 smuthink@smu.edu Help Center Canvas for CAPE Courses Information about SMU NetIDs Frequently Asked Questions Instructor Portal Parking & Maps Payment Options and Financing Policies and Procedures Student Portal Digital Badges Adding Your SMU Certificate Credential to LinkedIn Veterans Zoom Contact Us Maps and Directions Legal Disclosures © Southern Methodist University 5539 SMU Blvd, Dallas, TX 75206 instagram twitter linkedin facebook