Skip navigation Columbia University Faculty & Staff Students Info for - Choose - Faculty & Staff Students News Events Forums Alumni Give Experience SIPA Dean's Messages About SIPA Why SIPA? SIPA Stories Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Centers & Institutes Columbia & New York City Global & UN Connections Student Organizations Ideas Lab Dean's Public Policy Challenge Grant Tech & Policy @ SIPA Entrepreneurship & Policy @ SIPA Central Banking and Financial Policy @ SIPA Kent Global Leadership Program on Conflict Resolution Academics Degree Programs Concentrations & Specializations International Fellows Program Dual Degree Programs Courses Capstone Workshops Executive Education Admissions What We Look For How to Apply Financial Aid Application Status Accept Your Offer Connect with SIPA Admissions FAQs Meet a Current Student Faculty & Research Faculty Directory Research & Publications Libraries & Campus Resources Careers Career Education Career Resources Internship Program Job & Internship Postings Employment Statistics Career FAQs For Employers Experience SIPA Dean's Messages About SIPA Why SIPA? SIPA Stories Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Centers & Institutes Columbia & New York City Global & UN Connections Student Organizations Ideas Lab Dean's Public Policy Challenge Grant Tech & Policy @ SIPA Entrepreneurship & Policy @ SIPA Central Banking and Financial Policy @ SIPA Kent Global Leadership Program on Conflict Resolution Academics Degree Programs Concentrations & Specializations International Fellows Program Dual Degree Programs Courses Capstone Workshops Executive Education Admissions What We Look For How to Apply Financial Aid Application Status Accept Your Offer Connect with SIPA Admissions FAQs Meet a Current Student Faculty & Research Faculty Directory Research & Publications Libraries & Campus Resources Careers Career Education Career Resources Internship Program Job & Internship Postings Employment Statistics Career FAQs For Employers Search form Search You are here Home Admissions Connect with SIPA SIPA is located on Columbia University's campus in Morningside Heights, a lively Manhattan neighborhood that bridges the Upper West Side and Harlem. Our home in the International Affairs Building is an energetic hub with some of the best views on campus. You are here Home Admissions Information Sessions All information sessions are offered monthly, either in-person or virtually. MIA, MPA, and MPA-DP Information Sessions Executive MPA (EMPA) Information Sessions MPA-EPM Information Sessions MPA-ESP Information Sessions PhD in Sustainable Development Information Sessions Application Q&A Sessions Join SIPA admissions officers for a virtual Admissions Q&A focused on the two year full-time Master of Public Administration, Master of International Affairs and MPA in Development Practice at Columbia University's School of International and Public Affairs. Q&A Sessions Upcoming Graduate School Fairs SIPA travels across the country (and globe) throughout the year to participate in graduate school fairs, information sessions, and other events. Due to the global impact of COVID-19, the Admissions team will be participating in a number of online graduate school fairs for Fall 2020. Recruitment Events Class Visits MIA, MPA and MPA-DP Class Visits In an abundance of caution due to the impact of COVID-19, SIPA is unable to offer class visits for prospective students. In lieu of class visits, we invite you to explore our virtual mini lecture series. For more information on our course offerings, please visit our bulletin. EMPA Class Visits In an abundance of caution due to the impact of COVID-19, SIPA is unable to offer class visits for prospective students. In lieu of class visits, we invite you to explore our virtual mini lecture series. For more information on our course offerings, please visit our bulletin. MPA-EPM Class Visits Prospective students for the MPA-EPM program are welcome to sit in on an MPA-EPM Core class. For information, please email [email protected] to schedule a class session. View MPA-EPM Curriculum PhD Class Visits If you are interested in our Ph.D. in Sustainable Development program, please contact [email protected] for more information. Meet a Current Student If you are interested in speaking with a current student at SIPA either in-person or virtually, please review our list of SIPA Admissions Ambassadors: Current Students List Campus Tours In response to COVID-19 and in accordance with state and city guidelines, the Admissions office will not offer campus tours for the Fall 2021 semester. We invite you to watch this curated virtual tour of the International Affairs Building, and we look forward to welcoming you in the near future. If you have any questions, please feel free to email us at [email protected]. SIPA Virtual Tour 2021 Video of SIPA Virtual Tour 2021 Additionally, please visit the Visitors Center to take a virtual tour of our Morningside Heights campus. Directions to SIPA The ceremonial entrance to Columbia University's Morningside Heights campus is located at Broadway and West 116th Street. Most SIPA offices are located in the International Affairs Building (IAB) at 420 West 118th Street, between Amsterdam Avenue and Morningside Drive. Visitors who enter IAB at street level will find themselves on the building's fourth floor; the elevated campus or plaza level provides access to the sixth floor. Floor Maps: 4th Floor 6th Floor 15th Floor Interactive University Campus Map Directions and Parking Information Apply Now Application Status Subscribe to the Admissions Blog Download Brochure Share This Director MDP Video of Director MDP Director Perspective SIPA is the first program to do a Masters in Development Practice. Glenn Denning, Director Top Connect with Us Facebook LinkedIn YouTube Twitter Instagram Twitter June 1, 2022 RT @ColumbiaUEnergy: "There are going to be tipping points with this transition and tipping points in technology, and I have no doubt th… https://t.co/Kl0BvFY4gk June 1, 2022 RT @Columbia: Explore the rich history of the LGBTQ+ movement at Columbia, the scholarship of our faculty on related issues, even… https://t.co/SQC3HllMcz COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY School of International and Public Affairs Main Address 420 West 118th Street New York, NY 10027 Non-Discrimination Statement and Policy Office of Admissions and Financial Aid 514 West 113th Street New York, NY 10025 SIPA Admission Tel (212) 854-6216