Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Division of Student Affairs Student Affairs Information for Employers Faculty and Staff Alumni Search BC.edu Links Career Center Menu Main Nav Career Center Meet With a Career Coach Back Back Close About Overview Meet Our Team Student Employment Contact and Visit Us Meet with a Career Coach Learning Outcomes Career Clusters Overview Career Exploration Business, Consulting, and Finance Communication, Arts, and Media Education, Nonprofit, and Social Service Government, Law, and Public Policy Healthcare and Nursing Science, Technology, and Engineering Jobs and Internships Overview Be Career Ready Internships Jobs Resumes Cover Letters Online Presence Networking Interviewing Evaluating an Offer and Salary Negotiation Graduate School Overview Applying to Graduate School Law School For Current Graduate Students Events and Programs Overview Event Calendar Careerfest Endeavor Schedule of Events Endeavor Fellows Endeavor Keynote Endeavor FAQs Information for Alumni Envision Designing Your Career Course Alumni Job Shadow Program Career Fairs and Networking Events Campus Recruitment Eagle Intern Fellowship Career Closet Praxis Summer Program Winter Break Challenge Illumination Awards Outcomes Resources Overview Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Handshake Guide Eagle Exchange Guide Meet With a Career Coach Close Directory A to Z Listing Search BC Career Center Search BC.edu Find pages or people Search Close Close Apply Visit Give Employers Faculty and Staff Alumni BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close Envision Home Events and Programs Envision Events and Programs Event Calendar Careerfest Endeavor Envision Designing Your Career Course Alumni Job Shadow Program Career Fairs and Networking Events Campus Recruitment Eagle Intern Fellowship Career Closet Praxis Summer Program Winter Break Challenge Illumination Awards Relax and Reflect Does the thought of your future career freak you out? If so, that's ok. Envision is the program to help you relax and gain confidence to move forward in your career journey. Envision is an opportunity to think outside the box about your interests and values. This daylong experience features interactive small group discussions to help you clarify your goals and remove barriers to action. Details Date Saturday, March 27, 2021 Class Years First-Years and Sophomores Majors/Schools All Welcome How to Register Registration for 2021 is now closed. Peer-Led Reflection Envision is a peer-led virtual program designed specifically to empower underclassmen during the career exploration process. Understanding how your skills, interests, and values align with different career paths is a journey, and we’re here to help you along the way. Envision was developed to give you the opportunity to take a step back to be able to reflect on your goals and identify your interests. Our hope is that this program will allow you to move forward with confidence, curiosity and a sense of possibility throughout your career exploration journey! Envision is designed for students who are: Feeling lost Facing pressure to pursue a specific path Having doubts about a major or career choice By the end of Envision, you will be able to: Articulate 1-3 next steps in your career discernment and planning. Identify at least one career resource available to you given your current career needs. Saturday, March 27, 2021 PROGRAM 11:00 a.m.–12 p.m. Welcome, Small Group Activities: Making Sense of your Wandering Map 12– 12:45 p.m. Break 12:45 – 1:15 p.m. Step into the Future Activity 1:15– 1:45 p.m. Small Group Discussion and Build Next Steps 1:45– 2:15 p.m. Peer Networking with Envision Student Leaders Back To Top Back To Top Career Center Southwell Hall 38 Commonwealth Avenue Chestnut Hill, MA 02467 617-552-3430 About Departments & Programs How can we help you? Events Division of Student Affairs Division of Student Affairs BAIC BC Bands Business Service Center Career Center Counseling Services Graduate Student Life Health Promotion Health Services Residential Life Robsham Theater Student Conduct Student Involvement Student Outreach & Support Women’s Center Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College