Skip to main content University of Nevada, Las Vegas Students Faculty/Staff Alumni Donors Community Audiences Students Faculty/Staff Alumni Donors Community Topics About Academics Admissions Athletics Diversity Research Menu U-N-L-V News Center News Center About Academics Admissions Athletics Diversity Research Find close News Center menu News Center News Center Home About Search Browse Browse Archive Browse By College/School Browse By Administrative Unit Publications Accomplishments Class Notes Experts Directory UNLV In The News UNLV Today UNLV Innovation Magazine UNLV Magazine Submit Share Story Idea Submit Accomplishment Submit Class Note Submit UNLV Today Announcement Become a Speaker/Expert Contact close find region Find Search A-Z Index Directories Quick Links Bookstore Bookstore Calendar Calendar Campus Maps Campus Maps Degrees Degrees Libraries Libraries MyUNLV MyUNLV News Center News Center RebelCard RebelCard Rebelmail Rebelmail Social Media Social Media UNLV Mail UNLV Mail WebCampus WebCampus Loading Directories Home A-Z Index Colleges, Schools, and Departments Administrative Units Research Centers and Institutes Resources and Services Employee Directory Contact UNLV Social Media Directory UNLV Mobile Apps The Course: Sex, Society, and Hot-Button Issues The Course: Sex, Society, and Hot-Button Issues Class tackles taboos to help future social workers to factually and professionally discuss sex. Search the News Center Browse News Center News Center Archive By College/School By Administrative Unit Calendar From Hurt to Hope: The Benefits of Virtual Grief Support Campus News | May 26, 2022 From Hurt to Hope: The Benefits of Virtual Grief Support Through a community partnership, the UNLV School of Nursing helps address loss through online support groups. Artistic Creation & the Audience Arts and Culture | May 26, 2022 Artistic Creation & the Audience ‘Family-Style’ Burlesque and Women as Spectators. Postcards from Italy: A Last Farewell Campus News | May 26, 2022 Postcards from Italy: A Last Farewell In the fair city of Verona, UNLV's Global Entrepreneurship Experience learn about marketing and social impact in Italy. Religious Faith Leads Student To Pursue Career in Medicine People | May 24, 2022 Religious Faith Leads Student To Pursue Career in Medicine Kirk Kerkorian School of Medicine student Jacob Villarama took a year off to pray and contemplate which career path to follow. News Center Archive UNLV Experts In The News Doomed Las Vegas Strip Icon May Have a New Path to Survival The Street May 27, 2022 Doomed Las Vegas Strip Icon May Have a New Path to Survival A new owner for the Mirage likely means the end of its signature attraction. But fans have new hope. Featured Expert: Alan Feldman - Distinguished Fellow in Responsible Gaming, International Gaming Institute Featured Expert Alan Feldman Distinguished Fellow in Responsible Gaming, International Gaming Institute Buckle up, turbulence ahead for the Las Vegas economy May 27, 2022 Buckle up, turbulence ahead for the Las Vegas economy Over two years into the pandemic and its recovery, we now face an entirely new set of facts in the macroeconomy as we face a cooling economy and possibly another recession. Previously, loose monetary and expansionary fiscal policies saved the day for many people. The support for government programs to aid unemployed workers and small businesses proved essential during the recovery process. But, now, policy makers must evaluate a completely changed situation. Labor markets are overheating and employers find it difficult to hire needed workers. Moreover, the inflation dragon, which had been chained up for decades, is on the loose and creating anxiety for consumers, workers, and financial markets. Featured Expert: Stephen Miller - Professor of Economics, Lee Business School Featured Expert Stephen Miller Professor of Economics, Lee Business School Buckle up, turbulence ahead for the Las Vegas economy May 27, 2022 Buckle up, turbulence ahead for the Las Vegas economy Over two years into the pandemic and its recovery, we now face an entirely new set of facts in the macroeconomy as we face a cooling economy and possibly another recession. Previously, loose monetary and expansionary fiscal policies saved the day for many people. The support for government programs to aid unemployed workers and small businesses proved essential during the recovery process. But, now, policy makers must evaluate a completely changed situation. Labor markets are overheating and employers find it difficult to hire needed workers. Moreover, the inflation dragon, which had been chained up for decades, is on the loose and creating anxiety for consumers, workers, and financial markets. Featured Expert: Andrew Woods - Director, Center for Business and Economic Research Featured Expert Andrew Woods Director, Center for Business and Economic Research More UNLV In The News Experts Directory Game On: Boosting Learning for Nursing Noobs Research | May 24, 2022 Game On: Boosting Learning for Nursing Noobs UNLV nursing lecturer ups student engagement through classroom gamification. UNLV Rebel Vets Lead 'Operation Battle Born' Ruck March to Honor Fallen Military Members Business and Community | May 23, 2022 UNLV Rebel Vets Lead 'Operation Battle Born' Ruck March to Honor Fallen Military Members Student veterans and volunteers will carry military-style backpacks loaded with 7,000 dog tags 60 miles from Amargosa Valley to Las Vegas on May 28 and 29. Postcards from Italy: The Sweet Side of Entrepreneurship Campus News | May 23, 2022 Postcards from Italy: The Sweet Side of Entrepreneurship UNLV Global Entrepreneurship Experience students stop in Torino, Italy for coffee, chocolate, and shopping at a local street market Alyssa Crittenden to Lead Graduate Education at UNLV People | May 20, 2022 Alyssa Crittenden to Lead Graduate Education at UNLV Crittenden, a professor and graduate coordinator for UNLV's department of anthropology, will begin her new position on July 1. Commanding the Trauma Bay People | May 20, 2022 Commanding the Trauma Bay Lt. Col. Stephanie Streit does double duty as military surgeon and Kerkorian School of Medicine professor through unique partnership. News Center Archive Recent Accomplishments Published: Sungyoun Chun, Hyeki Park, Ji Yoo, Jinwook Hwang, Pearl Kim, Seong Park, and Jay Shen May 30, 2022 Published: Sungyoun Chun, Hyeki Park, Ji Yoo, Jinwook Hwang, Pearl Kim, Seong Park, and Jay Shen Sungyoun Chun, Jinwook Hwang, Pearl Kim, Jay Shen (all Healthcare Administration), Dr. Ji Yoo (Medicine), and Seong Park (Criminal Justice) recently published a paper, “Trends and Age-related Characteristics of Substance Use Hospitalizations of Homeless Population: 2007-2015" on Medicine. Published: Austin Horng-En Wang May 27, 2022 Published: Austin Horng-En Wang Austin Horng-En Wang (Political Science) published a co-authored op-ed, "Why Was Taiwan Left Out of the US-Led IPEF?" in The Diplomat. This article discusses the decision-making of the Biden Administration regarding the IPEF and its Indo-Pacific strategy, and argues the pros and cons for not including Taiwan into the IPEF. To be specific, IPEF may… Exhibition: Emily Budd and Jerrica Robbins May 27, 2022 Exhibition: Emily Budd and Jerrica Robbins Emily Budd and Jerrica Robbins (both Art), along with other art students and UNLV art alumni Chris Bauder, Eric Pawloski, Christina Uran, and Micah Haji-Sheikh have work exhibited in "Forgotten Artifacts," a group show celebrating popular cast metal sculptors in the Las Vegas Valley. Hosted by Core Contemporary and curated by Ross Takahashi, the… More Accomplishments Get Our Weekly Newsletter The "From the News Center" newsletter highlights the top articles, videos, photo galleries, and event information. It is emailed to subscribers on Thursdays. Sign Up × Get Our Weekly Newsletter Name: Email: Permissions I would like to receive "From the News Center" emails You can unsubscribe at any time by clicking the link in the footer of our emails. Learn more about our privacy practices. We use MailChimp as our marketing platform. By clicking below to subscribe, you acknowledge that your information will be transferred to MailChimp for processing. Learn more about MailChimp's privacy practices. Wellness Coronavirus Information Safety and Emergency University Statements and Compliance Web Accessibility Top Tier 2.0 Employment Visit Our Campus Campus Maps Parking Information News Center Contact UNLV University of Nevada, Las Vegas 4505 S. Maryland Pkwy. Las Vegas, NV 89154 Phone: 702-895-3011 Campus Notifications © 2022 UNLV Produced by UNLV Web & Digital Strategy UNLV.edu Privacy Statement Website Feedback Social Media at UNLV