Brown University Quick Exit General Health Physical Health Acne Asthma Breast Exams Bronchitis Colds Concussion Headaches Meningitis Mononucleosis Sleep Seasonal Flu Sun Safety and Skin Cancer Stomach Flu Testicular Self-Exams Travel and Health Yeast Infection Emotional Wellbeing Mindfulness Sleep Stress Self-Care Techniques for Stress Relief Wellness on Campus Social Wellbeing Community, Connection and Coping: Remote Resources Consent Economic Stress Roommate Relationships Unlearning Toxic Masculinity Reproductive Health Abortion Adoption Amenorrhea Bacterial Vaginosis Colposcopy Erectile Dysfunction Pregnancy Gender Care GYN Visits HPV Vaccine Menstruation Pelvic Inflammatory Disease Pregnancy Tests Premature Ejaculation Prenatal Care Testicular Self-Exams Accessing Care Gender Care GYN Visits LGBTQ Health Care at Health Services Men's Health Exams Pregnancy Tests STI Testing Options Resources and Links Nutrition & Eating Concerns Eating Well at Brown Being a Vegetarian Dietary Guidelines Eating Off Meal Plan Meal Plan And Dining Information Supplements Eating Concerns and Body Image Body Image Concerns Eating Concerns Help at Brown Sports Nutrition Relative Energy Deficiency in Sport (RED-S) Sports Nutrition Accessing Care Help at Brown Worried about a Friend Sexual Health Sex 101 SHAG! Erectile Dysfunction Orgasm Premature Ejaculation Sex and Alcohol Sex Toys Sexually Explicit Media Contraception Birth Control Pills Cervical Cap Condoms Depo-Provera Emergency Contraception Fertility Awareness Method Implant Internal Condoms IUD Ortho Evra (The Patch) Ring Spermicides and Lubricants The Recent Election & Contraception Access Withdrawal (Pull Out Method) Reproductive Health Abortion Adoption Amenorrhea Colposcopy Erectile Dysfunction Pregnancy GYN Visits HPV Vaccine Menstruation Pelvic Inflammatory Disease Pregnancy Tests Prenatal Care Testicular Self-Exams Yeast Infection Safer Sex Ship n SHAG! Sexual Health and Safer Sex During Covid-19 Abstinence Condoms Dental Dams Internal Condoms Post Exposure Prophylaxis (PEP) Pre Exposure Prophylaxis (PrEP) Safer Sex Withdrawal (Pull Out Method) STIs AIDS/HIV Bacterial Vaginosis Chlamydia Colposcopy Gonorrhea Hepatitis B Herpes HPV and Genital Warts HPV Vaccine Molluscum Contagiosum Oral Sex and STIs Pelvic Inflammatory Disease Pubic Lice and Scabies Sexually Transmitted Infections Syphilis Talking with a Partner STI Testing Options Trichomoniasis Urinary Tract Infections Yeast Infection Sexual Assault & Dating Violence Get Help Sexual Assault Response Line SHARE Advocates Dating Violence First Five Days After an Assault Male Survivors Sexual Violence and Assault Sexual Harassment Stalking Help a Friend SHARE Advocates How to Help a Friend Get Involved in Prevention Interrupting the Red Zone: How we keep each other safe Culture of Respect Collective Sexual Assault Peer Education (SAPE) Help Prevent Sexual Assault Unlearning Toxic Masculinity Relationships and Communication Consent Dating Violence Learn More Common Reactions to Sexual Violence and Assault Predatory Drugs Sexual Misconduct and Title IX Sexual Violence: Key Terms Resources and Links Alcohol & Other Drugs Alcohol Alcohol and Your Body Recognizing a Problem Risks and Realities Sex and Alcohol Ways to Cut Down Other Drugs Caffeine Cocaine Ecstasy Energy Drinks GHB Inhalants Ketamine LSD Marijuana Methamphetamine Predatory Drugs Psilocybin (Mushrooms) Rohypnol Tobacco Smokeless Tobacco Smoking Cessation Tobacco Learn More Law and Policy Summary Educational Links Accessing Care Resources at Brown Off Campus Resources Calling EMS How to Help a Friend Quit Smoking How to Talk to a Friend about Drinking or Drug Use Google Tag Manager Emotional Wellbeing Mindfulness What is mindfulness? "Mindfulness means paying attention in a particular way, on purpose, in the present moment and non-judgmentally." (Jon Kabat-Zinn, PhD, founding Director of the Center for Mindfulness in Medicine, Health Care and Society at the University of Massachusetts Medical School.) When we focus our minds on the present moment, we are aware of our thoughts, feelings and actions, without attaching judgment to them. It can help us to embrace reality and the present moment, instead of jumping to the past or to the future. There are many different ways to practice mindfulness, including meditation, and it is associated with many benefits. What are the health benefits of mindfulness? Studies with college students suggest that the practice of mindfulness leads to decreases in stress and anxiety, improvements in concentration and attention, and increases in self-awareness and overall emotional well-being. Willoughby Britton and Eric Loucks, professors at Brown University, have studied the effects of mindfulness meditation on Brown students and have found that meditation has several physical health and mental health benefits. Mindfulness is often used as one aspect of treatment for a range of issues, such as anxiety, depression, substance abuse, binge eating disorder, chronic pain and cancer. What are some ways to practice mindfulness? There are many ways to practice mindfulness, including meditation, yoga and tai-chi. You can also practice mindfulness as part of your daily routine: Walking: Be aware of the sensations of walking, like the quality of the pavement under your feet and how your body feels. Notice when your mind wanders and, without judgment, come back to awareness of walking. Taking a shower: Notice how the water feels on your body and the movements of your body as you shower. This can be a good time to focus on your breath as well. Brushing your teeth: Pay attention to all of the sensations, tastes and movements involved. Since we begin and end the day with this task, it can also be an opportunity to give yourself compassion or lovingkindness. Click here for a 3-minute lovingkindness meditation. What is the best way to start meditating? There are a range of ways to meditate, from very brief amounts of time to week-long retreats. It doesn't have to be complicated or "perfect." Simply try what is best for you. Here are some simple steps that you can use as a guide: If you can, find a quiet space to use regularly. This can be very challenging in college! You can try the library; or if the noise in your residence hall isn't too loud, you can practice meditation that focuses on becoming aware of the sounds around you. For example, you can pay attention to the number of sounds, the quality of them, and how they come and go. Sit or stand in a comfortable posture, erect but relaxed. Take a moment to notice body sensations: tightness, tension, etc. There's nothing you have to do about them; just notice them. Establish an intention for the meditation, for example, to be aware of body sensations, to give yourself compassion or lovingkindess, or to notice that thoughts come and go. Use guided meditations to help yourself remain focused. See the links below for meditations on the web and phone apps you can download. Once you have practice with guided meditations, you can meditate on your own, noticing what works best for you. It's important to start slowly: try 5 to 10 minutes a day and gradually increase to a maximum of 45 minutes a day. Click here for more guided meditation instruction. Are there any reasons not to meditate? Are there any signs I should stop meditating? Keep in mind that meditation is never a substitute for psychological or medical care. If you feel upset, overwhelmed or agitated while meditating, it's important to stop. Brown students can get confidential counseling at Counseling and Psychological Services, 401.863-3976. Is mindfulness or mindfulness meditation a religious practice? Although the concept of mindfulness emerged from Eastern philosophies, including Buddhism and Taoism, thousands of years ago, research has found that mindfulness can be considered a quality of human consciousness which can be measured and studied empirically. Mindfulness meditation practices have been formalized in programs such as Mindfulness-Based Stress Reduction (MBSR), Mindfulness-Based Cognitive Therapy (MBCT), and Mindfulness-Based Relapse Prevention (MBRP) as well as other programs. It can be considered a beneficial psychological or stress-reducing practice, regardless of your religious beliefs. If you are concerned that the practice of mindfulness might contradict your religious beliefs, you can talk to someone in your religious community or contact the Office of the Chaplains and Religious Life. Related Links Mindfulness Awareness Research Center at UCLA This site has several brief meditations you can download or listen to on the web. Contemplative Studies Initiative at Brown Brown’s Contemplative Studies Initiative sponsors lectures and events, and affiliated faculty can provide advice on students’ academic and personal study of mindfulness and other contemplative practices. This site includes upcoming events, class listings and videos of recent guest lecturers. Brown Yoga and Mindfulness (YAM) The Yoga and Mindfulness Group is a student-run yoga group at Brown. Counseling and Psychological Services 401.863-3476 Psychological Services provides confidential appointments, referrals, and crisis counseling. Located on the fifth floor of Page-Robinson Hall. Health Services 401.863-3953 Health Services provides a range of confidential services including general health care, STI testing and emergency medical care. You can request a medical provider by gender or you can request a specific provider by name. We are located at 13 Brown Street on the corner of Brown and Charlesfield Streets, across from Keeney Quad. Office of the Chaplains and Religious Life The Office of the Chaplain and Religious Life offers programs and resources, including contemplative practices that are based in faith traditions. About BWell: Quick Links About Us Staff Confidential Appointments Sexual Assault Response Line Workshops Peer Education Programs Health Empowerment Tools PHONE NUMBERS 401.863-2794 Health Promotion 401.863-3953 Health Services 401.863-6000 Sexual Assault Response Line 401.863-4111 EMS 401.863-3476 Counseling & Psychological Services 401.863-4111 DPS Make an Appointment What is Peer Education? Learn about BWell's Peer Education Programs! Get involved in empowerment and prevention work at Brown. Get Involved Meet Our Staff About Us Make an Appointment Brown University BWell Health Promotion Health and Wellness Brown University Box 1928 450 Brook Street Providence, Rhode Island, 02912 Phone 401-863-2794 Fax 401-863-7953 [email protected] © 2022 Brown University Connect: [email protected] Related Offices Brown EMS Counseling and Psychological Services Health Services Social Media BWell on Facebook SHAG on Facebook BURP on Facebook Health Services on Facebook