Skip banner navigation Skip to main content Close Navigation Screen Login to myCoyote View the Campus Directory CSUSB Library CSUSB Maps and Directions CSUSB Palm Desert Campus Make a Gift to CSUSB CSUSB Admissions - Global Site Navigation Admissions Overview - Global Site Navigation Apply to CSUSB - Global Site Navigation After I'm Admitted - Global Site Navigation First-year Students - Global Site Navigation Transfer - Global Site Navigation International Students - Global Site Navigation English Language Program - Global Site Navigation Undocumented Student Center - Global Site Navigation Osher Lifelong Learners - Global Site Navigation Military Veterans/Dependents - Global Site Navigation Financial Aid & Scholarships - Global Site Navigation Student Financial Services - Global Site Navigation Summer Session - Global Site Navigation Academics - Global Site Navigation Academic Calendar - Global Site Navigation Academic Advising - Global Site Navigation Degrees & Programs - Global Site Navigation Colleges & Departments - Global Site Navigation Course Catalog / Bulletin - Global Site Navigation Class Schedule - Global Site Navigation Online Programs - Global Site Navigation Academic Success and Undergraduate Advising - Global Site Navigation Graduate Studies - Global Site Navigation Office of the Registrar - Global Site Navigation Academic & Support Resources - Global Site Navigation Academic Research - Global Site Navigation Graduation Initiative 2025 - Global Site Navigation CSUSB Athletics Men's Sports Men's Sports Baseball Men's Sports Basketball Men's Sports Golf Men's Sports Soccer Women's Sports Women's Sports Softball Women's Sports Cheer & Dance Women's Sports Track & Field Women's Sports Cross Country Women's Sports Volleyball Women's Sports Soccer Women's Sports Basketball Campus Life - Global Site Navigation Events Calendar - Global Site Navigation Get Involved - Global Site Navigation Student Services - Global Site Navigation Recreation & Wellness - Global Site Navigation Student Health & Safety - Global Site Navigation Housing & Dining - Global Site Navigation Music & Arts - Global Site Navigation Student Employment - Global Site Navigation Campus Safety & Emergency Info - Global Site Navigation Palm Desert Campus Life - Global Site Navigation About CSUSB - Global Site Navigation Inside CSUSB - Global Site Navigation COVID-19 Campus Map - Global Site Navigation President's Office - Global Site Navigation Shared Governance - Global Site Navigation Strategic Plan 2015-2022 - Global Site Navigation Administrative Divisions - Global Site Navigation Organizational Chart - Global Site Navigation Strategic Communication - Global Site Navigation Mission, Vision & Core Values - Global Site Navigation Accreditation Assessment Site Header Region CSUSB Home We Define the Future Login to myCoyote View the Campus Directory CSUSB Library CSUSB Maps and Directions CSUSB Palm Desert Campus Make a Gift to CSUSB Search CSUSB Search CSUSB CSUSB Main Menu Page Header Office of the Registrar Disclosure of Consumer Information Page Menu Home Expand Menu Item Home GPA Calculator Q2S Unit Calculator Disclosure of Consumer Information Over 60 Program Registrar's FAQs Veteran Certification Schedule Planner Catalog Year Request Important Dates Records Expand Menu Item Records Academic Renewal Address Change Definition of Grades CSU IntraSystem Concurrent CSU IntraSystem Visitor Credit By Exam Enrollment Verifications Grade Forgiveness Grade Grievance Leave of Absence International Programs Name Change National Student Clearinghouse National Student Exchange Privacy Rights of Students Open University Request a CSUSB Transcript University Honors Retroactive Withdrawal Social Security Number Change UCR/CSUSB Cross Registration Program Registration Expand Menu Item Registration Cross Enrollment Dropping A Class Enrollment Status MyCoyote Access Info Adding a Class Attending Classes Adding or Dropping After Census Administrative Drop Policy Auditing Courses Class Level Course Overload Course Numbering System Withdrawing from a Class or the University Registration Dates Simultaneous Enrollment Term Withdrawal Articulation Expand Menu Item Articulation Associate Degree for Transfer Test Credit Tutorials Forms Contact Us Evaluations Expand Menu Item Evaluations CSUSB Course Descriptions Change of Major Certificate Programs Concurrent Enrollment Course Substitution Diploma Replacement and eDiploma Online Graduation Requirement Check PAWS (Program Advising Worksheet for Students) Minors Main Content Region Disclosure of Consumer Information Cal State San Bernardino is committed to providing students, their families and the campus community full disclosure of all consumer information as required by state and federal laws and regulations. The laws are intended to satisfy students' right to know, and afford the opportunity for students to make fully informed choices regarding the institution they elect to attend. Please take a moment to review the information below. Hard copies of the full disclosure can be obtained from the Office of the Registrar located in University Hall, room 171. About Cal State San Bernardino Consumer and disclosure information relating to current degrees and programs offered by the university, accreditation information, and lists of faculty and administrative personnel can be accessed in the university Bulletin of Courses, or call the CSUSB Office of Admissions & Student Recruitment at (909) 537-5188. Campus Security Policies and Crime Statistics Report (Clery Act) Cal State San Bernardino places the highest priority on your safety. We rely on community members to share our commitment and actively participate in creating a safe and secure living, learning, and working environment. In compliance with the Jeanne Clery Disclosure of Campus Security Policy and Campus Crime Statistics Act (The Clery Act), CSUSB's annual security report for both San Bernardino and Palm Desert Campus (PDC), includes statistics for the previous three years concerning reported crimes that occurred on or around the campus. A copy of either report may be printed directly from the website, or a printed copy of the report may be requested by contacting CSUSB Police Records at (909) 537-3552. A copy of the report will be mailed to you. Designating an Emergency Contact Person By utilizing MyCoyote, an emergency contact person may be designated for use by campus personnel. For more information on MyCoyote, contact the MyCoyote eHelp Center. Emergency Response and Evacuation Procedures Emergency response and evacuation procedures are listed on the CSUSB Emergency Management page. The CSUSB Emergency Operations Plan includes emergency response and evacuation procedures. CSUSB will utilize campus emergency notification systems upon the confirmation by university police officers of a significant emergency or dangerous situation involving an immediate threat to the health or safety of students or employees occurring on or near the campus. Visit the website located at www.csusb.edu/emergency-management or the UPD website www.csusb.edu/police for more information. Emergency Management can be reached at 909-537-7477. Filing a Discrimination, Harassment and Retaliation, Sexual Misconduct, Dating and Domestic Violence and Stalking Complaint by a Student or an Applicant for Admission California State University (CSU) Executive Order 1096, Revised 8-14-2020 and Executive Order 1097, Revised 8-14-2020 were established to provide students and applicants for admission a systemwide procedure to file complaints alleging violations of the directives, policies and procedures set forth by the government and the Board of Trustees. The Executive Orders are part of our campus’ efforts to widely communicate which procedures should be followed according to the status of the filer and the alleged harasser. Executive Orders 1096R and 1097R cover the Systemwide Policy prohibiting Discrimination, Harassment and Retaliation, Sexual Misconduct, Dating and Domestic Violence, and Stalking against Students and Systemwide Procedure for Addressing Such Complaints by another Student, CSU employee and/or a Third Party. The CSU prohibits discrimination, including harassment, because of any Protected statuses, which include: age, disability, gender, genetic information, gender identity or expression, nationality, marital status, race or ethnicity, religion, sexual orientation, veteran or military status. For information and filing forms concerning sex, gender or sexual orientation, contact the Office of Institutional Equity & Compliance, Cristina Alvarez, Executive Director and Title IX Coordinator, Sierra Hall Room 131, (909) 537 5669, cristina.alvarez@csusb.edu or iec@csusb.edu. To submit a concern online about Title IX, discrimination, harassment and/or retaliation based on a protected class, go to the Institutional Equity & Compliance web page to the File a Report icon or fill Attachment A complaint form of the EO 1096 or 1097 and email it to iec@csusb.edu. The Office of the Vice President for Student Affairs, UH-231, (909) 537-5138 can also provide information about Title IX & Gender Equity and the Executive Order complaint process. No student is precluded from filing a complaint at any time with the U.S. Department of Education, Office for Civil Rights, 50 United Nations Plaza, San Francisco, CA 94102, Phone (415) 486-5555, Fax (415) 486-5570, TDD (800) 877-8339, Email ocr.sanfrancisco@ed.gov, or in court, where civil law remedies, including but not limited to injunctions, restraining orders or other remedies or orders, may also be available. NOTICE OF NON-DISCRIMINATION ON THE BASIS OF GENDER OR SEX The California State University does not discriminate on the basis of gender, which includes sex and gender identity or gender expression, or sexual orientation in its education programs or activities. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972, and certain other federal and state laws, prohibit discrimination on the basis of gender or sexual orientation in employment, as well as in all education programs and activities operated by the University (both on and off campus), including admissions. The protection against discrimination on the basis of gender or sexual orientation includes sexual harassment, sexual misconduct, and gender based dating and domestic violence and stalking. Any person may report sex discrimination, including sexual harassment (whether or not the person reporting is the person alleged to have experienced the conduct that could constitute sex discrimination or sexual harassment), in-person, by mail, by telephone, or by electronic mail, using the contact information listed below for the Title IX Coordinator, or by any other means that results in the Title IX Coordinator receiving the person’s verbal or written report. Such a report may be made at any time (including during non-business hours) by using the telephone number or electronic mail address, or by mail to the office address, listed for the Title IX Coordinator. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding the non-discrimination Policies and Title IX complaints for California State University, San Bernardino: Title IX Coordinator: Cristina Alvarez, Executive Director for Institutional Equity & Compliance, Location: Sierra Hall Room 131 Cristina.Alvarez@csusb.edu, Phone: 909-537-5669 https://www.csusb.edu/institutional-equity-compliance Role: Receiving complaints against faculty, staff, administrators, students, and Third Parties; overseeing investigations, monitoring and oversight of overall implementation of Title IX compliance, including coordination of training, education, and communication. Questions may also be addressed to: Office for Civil Rights, U.S. Department of Education, Regional Office, 50 United Nations Plaza, San Francisco, CA 94102, email ocr.sanfrancisco@ed.gov, phone (415) 486-5555, fax (415) 486-5570, TDD (800) 877-8339 Financial Aid Penalties for Drug Law Violations A federal or state drug conviction of possession or sale of drugs can disqualify a student from receiving financial aid. More information can be accessed on the CSUSB Office of Financial Aid and Scholarships website, or by calling (909) 537-5227. Financial Aid Refund and Repayment Policy If a student's financial aid is greater than his or her total tuition fees and/or on campus housing charges at CSUSB, Student Financial Services will refund the excess to the student by one of the following methods: Transmit funds to student's bank account, if student has applied as a Direct Deposit participant. Mail a check to the mailing address the student has indicated on his or her MyCoyote account. The student is responsible to ensure that his or her mailing address is kept current in MyCoyote. The Office of Financial Aid and Scholarships encourages all financial aid students to apply for direct deposit and to receive their financial aid refund in a timely manner. A repayment will be owed to the university if a student drops courses before the term census date, completely withdraws from all classes before the 60 percent point of the term, receives federal financial aid for a term but fails to attend course(s), or receives a zero (0) GPA for all courses at the end of a term. In these situations you are strongly encouraged to visit the Financial Aid & Scholarships Office in University Hall and make an appointment with a financial aid advisor. The policy on repayment of financial aid is available online. More information can be accessed on the CSUSB Office of Financial Aid and Scholarships website, or by calling (909) 537-5227. Financial Assistance Information The Office of Financial Aid & Scholarships determines whether you meet federal, state and/or campus eligibility requirements. In some cases, our office will share information from other school offices, such as the admissions office or the registrar, or from other organizations, such as high schools, scholarship organizations/sponsors, or state agencies. The determining factors of whether you meet final eligibility for federal, state and campus grants, loans and other types of educationally-related benefits or resources can vary and may include but are not limited to the following: demonstrated financial need based on financial aid application or scholarship data, program specific requirements, your ability to maintain academic progress, and your enrollment status per term and annually. We will carefully review your financial aid eligibility and make every attempt to ensure that you receive the maximum aid for which you qualify. Please read additional information on our website under category Types of Aid that outlines each financial aid program's eligibility criteria. Consumer disclosure information relating to financial aid includes: cost of attendance, description of need and non-need aid types, application procedures and processes, student eligibility requirements, students’ rights and responsibilities, loan counseling, disbursement information, refund and repayment policies, satisfactory academic progress policy for financial aid and financial aid availability for students abroad. This information can be accessed on the CSUSB Office of Financial Aid and Scholarships or by calling (909) 537-5227. Fire Safety Report Cal State San Bernardino's annual fire safety report is available online. A copy of the report may be printed directly from the website, or a printed copy of the report may be requested by contacting CSUSB Police Records at (909) 537-3552. A copy of the report will be mailed to you. Information on Placement of and Types of Employment Obtained by Graduates of the University's Degree or Certificate Programs This Alumni Survey is completed by alumni who graduated within the past several years. Questions include satisfaction with CSUSB and the program, effectiveness, employment, and further studies. For additional information, please contact the CSUSB Office of Institutional Research at (909) 537-5052. Information on Student Body Diversity In our commitment to the furthering of knowledge of students and fulfilling our educational mission, Cal State San Bernardino seeks a campus climate that welcomes, celebrates, and promotes respect for the entire variety of human experience. In our commitment to diversity, we welcome people from all backgrounds and we seek to include knowledge and values from many cultures in the curriculum and extra-curricular life of the campus community. Our commitment to work toward an environment that values diversity requires that we create, promote, and maintain activities and programs that further our understanding of individual and group diversity. We are pleased to present diversity of our student population for your perusal. Further details may be obtained by contacting the CSUSB University Diversity Committee at (909) 537-5032. Information on the Types of Graduate and Professional Education in which Graduates of the University's 4-year Degree Programs Enrolled This recent Graduate Survey is completed by students who are about to graduate. Questions include satisfaction with CSUSB and the program, effectiveness, employment, and further studies. For additional information, please contact the CSUSB Office of Institutional Research at (909) 537-5052. Missing Persons Procedure The process to report a missing resident living in on-campus student housing facilities is included in the Annual Security Report. A copy of the report may be printed directly from the website, or a printed copy of the report may be requested by contacting CSUSB Police Records at (909) 537-3552. A copy of the report will be mailed to you. Notice of Student Rights under the Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act (FERPA) The federal Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act of 1974 (FERPA), and regulations adopted subsequent to the act, set out requirements designed to protect students' privacy in their records maintained by the university. The university has incorporated FERPA into its University Policies - All Policies. The complete FERPA policy is also available. For more information, or to obtain a copy of the Student Records Administration policy, call the CSUSB Office of the Registrar at (909) 537-5202. Policies and Disciplinary Action Related to Plagiarism, Cheating, Other Forms of Academic Dishonesty, and Behavioral Misconduct CSUSB students and student organizations are responsible for upholding the Standards for Student Conduct. Plagiarism and cheating are violations of the Standards for Student Conduct. Definitions and procedures for addressing cheating and plagiarism are found in the Faculty Senate's Policies and Procedures Concerning Academic Dishonesty, the Standards for Student Conduct, and Executive Order 1098 Revised 8/14/2020 - Student Conduct Procedures. Behavior that is not consistent with the Standards for Student Conduct or conducive to promoting a safe living and learning community is addressed in accordance with Executive Order 1098 Revised 8/14/2020 - Student Conduct Procedures. Copies of the policies and procedures may be obtained by requesting a copy from the CSUSB Office of Student Conduct and Ethical Development in University Hall 346, (909) 537-7172; the Office of the Vice President for Student Affairs in University Hall 231, (909) 537-5185; or online at Student Conduct and Ethical Development. The office of Student Conduct & Ethical Development encourages members of the CSUSB Coyote community to “Respect the Pack” and report any student misconduct or concerning behavior in order to sustain a safe and respectful living, learning and working environment. Reports of alleged student misconduct may be submitted via an online incident report 24/7 by any member of the Coyote community. Consultation is also available by contacting the Office of Student Conduct and Ethical Development at student-conduct@csusb.edu or (909) 537-7172. For immediate or emergency assistance, University Police should be contacted by calling 9-1-1 as necessary. Policies and Sanctions Related to Copyright Infringement, and Liabilities Students May Face for Unauthorized Distribution of Copyrighted Materials The unauthorized distribution of copyrighted material is a violation of a federal law, the Digital Millennium Copyright Act §512(c), and also a violation of CSU policy, the CSU San Bernardino Acceptable Use Policy for Electronic Communication and the Standards for Student Conduct. Since this type of activity also places the university at risk for possible criminal and civil liability, the university investigates each notice of possible violation and applies to the fullest extent all current applicable policies. Policies Regarding Vaccinations Students who are accessing facilities of any university locations are required to be immunized against the virus that causes COVID-19. For more details, please see the CSU COVID-19 Vaccination Interim Policy. The Student Health Center provides clearances for the university admissions requirement. All new and re-admitted California State University students born after Jan. 1, 1957, are required to present proof of measles and rubella immunizations to the Student Health Center. The hepatitis B vaccine series is required of first time enrollees under the age of 19. However, you may be exempt for both of these requirements if you've graduated from a California public school during or after 2005. More detailed and specific requirements may be viewed on the CSUSB Student Health Center website, or may be obtained by calling (909) 537-5241. Although not required, students are also strongly encouraged to receive the Meningococcal meningitis vaccine. Meningococcal meningitis is known to spread easily among students, particularly those living in residence halls or sharing apartments with multiple roommates. Prevention of Drug and Alcohol Abuse The Drug Free Schools and Campuses Act of 1989 requires that all students be notified annually of Cal State San Bernardino's Alcohol and Other Drug Policy. The Biennial Review Report on Alcohol and Other Drugs Programs and Policies is available for review in the CSUSB Office of the Vice President for Student Affairs, University Hall 231. Retention Rates of Certificate- or Degree-seeking First-time Full-time Undergraduate Students Graduation and retention rates for full-time, first-time undergraduates are available online. The information is also displayed by gender and by ethnicity. Degree completion, retention, and graduation rates can also be obtained by calling the CSUSB Office of Institutional Research at (909) 537-5052. Services Available to Students with Disabilities Since 1978, the campus has experienced dynamic growth in its population of students with disabilities. At Cal State San Bernardino, over 1,000 students with verifiable disabilities are served by the university's Services to Students with Disabilities (SSD) office. SSD strives to empower students with disabilities by fostering skills such as self-advocacy, resourcefulness, and independence. The SSD office works collaboratively with the campus community to remove barriers, promoting an enriched learning environment where students with disabilities can utilize their skills and pursue their academic and personal development goals. The SSD office provides the necessary support services instrumental to students achieving their academic goals while building self-efficacy. Services are assessed and accommodations are provided on a case-by-case basis. This highly personalized approach has enabled the SSD office to successfully help thousands of students achieve their chosen academic goals. For more information regarding services available to students with disabilities and other campus resources visit the Services to Students with Disabilities website or call (909) 537-5238 or TTY (909) 537-7230. Textbook Information The online class schedule provides access to recommended or required textbooks for each course section, including title, author, edition, copyright year, publisher, ISBN, and cost for new or used copies. The university’s Coyote Bookstore provides information on renting textbooks, purchasing used textbooks, textbook buy-back programs, and alternative content delivery programs. For more information, please call the Coyote Bookstore at (909) 537-3966. The Equity in Athletics Disclosure Act In compliance with the Equity in Athletics Disclosure Act (EADA), the Cal State San Bernardino Athletics Department posts the athletic programs' participation rates and financial support data on the CSUSB athletics website by January 3, 2022. The information remains on the website throughout the fall semester. The EADA is designed to make prospective student-athletes aware of a school's commitment to providing equitable athletic opportunities for its male and female students. Any co-educational institution of higher education that participates in a federal student aid program must prepare an EADA report on an annual basis. The EADA and graduation rates of student-athletes are available by calling the Coyote Athletics Department at (909) 537-5011. Title IX Notice of Non-Discrimination on the Basis of Gender or Sex The California State University does not discriminate on the basis of gender, which includes sex and gender identity or expression, or sexual orientation in its education programs or activities. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972, and certain other federal and state laws, prohibit discrimination on the basis of gender or sexual orientation in employment, as well as in all education programs and activities operated by the University (both on and off campus). The protection against discrimination on the basis of gender or sexual orientation includes sexual harassment, sexual misconduct, and gender based dating and domestic violence and stalking. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding the non-discrimination policies: Title IX Coordinator: Cristina Alvarez, Director, Title IX & Gender Equity, SMSU-103, (909) 537-5669, titleix@csusb.edu or cristina.alvarez@csusb.edu. Role: Receiving complaints against faculty, staff, administrators, students, and Third Parties; overseeing investigations, monitoring and oversight of overall implementation of Title IX compliance, including coordination of training, education, and communication. Questions may also be addressed to: Office for Civil Rights, U.S. Department of Education, Regional Office, 50 United Nations Plaza, San Francisco, CA 94102, email ocr.sanfrancisco@ed.gov, phone (415) 486-5555, fax (415) 486-5570, TDD (800) 877-8339 To request a paper copy of the Disclosure of Consumer Information - Your Right to Know, contact the Office of the Registrar at (909) 537-5200. Transfer of Credit; Articulation Agreements Credit for work completed at institutions of recognized accreditation will be accepted toward the satisfaction of degree requirements at CSUSB within limitations of residence and major requirements, community college transfer maximums, and course applicability. Frequently asked questions regarding transfer are answered by the CSUSB Office of Admissions and Student Recruitment or by calling (909) 537-5188. Complete articulation agreements with all public colleges and universities in California are available on the ASSIST website. Right Content Register to Vote Contact Us Registrar, Office of the Phone Number (909) 537-5200 Location:UH-171 Office Hours Monday - Friday: 8:00 am - 5:00 pm Saturday - Sunday: Closed Summer Hours: Monday - Thursday 7:00 am - 5:30 pm Closed Fridays Extended Hours -- First ten days of classes: Monday - Thursday 7:30 am - 6:00 pm Fridays and days prior to holidays 7:30 am - 5:00 pm For Records: Phone: (909) 537-5200, Option 2 Email: recordsinfo@csusb.edu CSUSB Transcripts: (909) 537-5268 Email: transxhelp@csusb.edu For Registration: Phone: (909) 537-5200, Option 1 Registration Help Desk: (909) 537-7671 Email Registration For Evaluations: Phone: (909) 537-5200, Option 4 Email Evaluation Social Media Office of the Registrar Instagram Footer Region CSUSB California State University, San Bernardino 5500 University Parkway San Bernardino, CA 92407 +1 (909) 537-5000 Follow Us CSUSB's Facebook CSUSB's Twitter CSUSB's YouTube CSUSB's Instagram CSUSB's LinkedIn CSUSB's Social Media Column 1 Login myCoyote Login Canvas Blackboard Login Student Email Login Faculty & Staff Email Login CSUSB Drupal Login Of Interest to... Future Students Interests Current Students Interests Faculty & Staff Interests Full-Time Faculty Interests Part-Time Faculty Interests Community & Visitors Interests Alumni & Friends Interests University Partners Interests Military/Veterans Interests Column 2 Employment CSUSB Job Listings - CSUSB Faculty Jobs - CSUSB Career Center - CSUSB Human Resources - CSUSB Student Employment - CSUSB Resources Contact CSUSB Clery Act Annual Safety Reports - CSUSB Title IX Notice - CSUSB Disclosure of Consumer Information - CSUSB Column 3 Campus Services Academic Advising - CSUSB Housing & Residential Life - CSUSB Ombuds Services - CSUSB Parking - CSUSB Police - CSUSB Psychological Counseling - CSUSB Services to Students with Disabilities - CSUSB Student Health Center - CSUSB Transcripts - CSUSB Accessibility Privacy and Security Non-Discrimination Notice Website Copyright/DMCA Policy