Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu University & Student Business Services Staff Directory Fees Calendars Students Parents Campus Card USBS Info/Policies Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact Fees Credit/Debit Card Usage Fees Deadlines & Dates Explanation of Fees Fee Adjustment (Refund) Policy Military Tuition Assistance (TA) Refund Policy and Schedule Fee Charts Fee Discounts, Waivers & Tuition Assistance Fee Payment Policies Financial Assistance Guaranteed Tuition Installment Payment Plan Payment Options Third Party/Direct Billing Take Action TigerXpress Cost of Tuition Estimator Forms Contact Us Follow Us Online twitter Home University & Student Business Services Fees Fee Payment Policies Fee Payment Policies for All Students IMPORTANT NOTICE: You are responsible for compliance with the following policies. Please read before registering. FEE PAYMENT POLICY: If you decide to withdraw completely from the University, your courses should be dropped promptly before the posted Fee Payment Deadlines to avoid owing fees. Carefully review the registration dates and the corresponding fee payment/deletion deadlines on the Student Business Services Calendar. Any unpaid balances due to the University of Memphis may result in financial holds being placed on University records, such as student’s grades, official transcripts and diplomas and on registration for future semesters. FEE WAIVERS (Special Programs): ATTENTION students who use the following fee waivers: State of Tennessee Employee Fee Waiver Program, U of M, UT, or other TBR schools Employee Fee Waiver Program and Senior Citizens and Disabled Fee Waiver Program: Please refer to the Student Business Services Calendar and select the appropriate term for the official registration date prior to registering for courses under these special fee waiver programs. Registration for courses under these programs prior to the date listed on the Student Business Services calendar will not be eligible for the fee waiver program. For more information regarding these programs, see Fee Payment Methods COURSE DELETION: Students are responsible for promplty dropping courses before the posted Fee Payment deadline listed in the Student Business Services Calendar. Unless your financial aid, scholarship, and/or third party assistance covers 100% of your enrollment fees, you MUST pay the remaining balance due after awards are applied by the appropriate fee payment deadline. INSTALLMENT PAYMENT PLAN (IPP): The IPP is available for all terms. An initial down payment of 10% of the balance is required after all financial aid (grants and student loans), scholarship, and/or third party assistance award amounts have been applied. Housing, Tiger Eat$, and a $50 enrollment fee will automatically be included in IPP. Please check the Installment Payment Plan Guidelines for more details. FEE INVOICES: Students are notified via their UofM email account when an electronic invoice is available online on TigerXpress. Students remain responsible for completing the fee payment process by the fee payment deadline, even if they do not receive a fee invoice. CHECK PAYMENTS: Payments mailed to the Student Business Services Office must be received by the appropriate fee payment deadline, regardless of the post mark date on the envelope. Please allow 5-7 days for processing. The University of Memphis processes paper checks electronically. When you provide a check as payment (in-person, by mail, or through our drop box) you authorize the use of information from your check to make a one-time electronic funds transfer from your account. In certain circumstances, such as for technical or processing reasons, we may process your check as a check transaction. For your reconciliation purposes, these checks will appear on your monthly bank statement as an Electronic Debit. If a check/draft or credit card payment used to satisfy enrollment fees is returned dishonored by your financial institution, you may be assessed a $100 Late Payment Fee, in addition to a $30 Returned Payment Fee, and your registration may be cancelled. WITHDRAWALS: Students are responsible for their own enrollment status. If you register and decide not to attend, you MUST withdraw from all classes prior to the first day of classes on myMemphis Student Self Service to ensure that you will not owe fees and receive an "F" grade. After the first day of class, if you decide not to attend or drop a course(s); you must drop that course(s) from your schedule. If you are unable to withdraw using Self Service, please submit a TigerHelp ticket to the Registrar's Office for assistance. Your fees for dropping courses maybe adjusted based on the refund policy in effect on the date you drop. Withdrawals by Students Receiving Financial Aid: Dropping your last course (totally withdrawing) after the first day of class and before 60% of the term has been completed will reduce your aid eligibility and may result in your having to REPAY FUNDS to the University and/or the Department of Education. For detailed information, please visit Financial Aid website. NON-ATTENDANCE: Students will not be dropped from classes for failure to attend. If you register and decide not to attend, you MUST withdraw on myMemphis Student Self Service before the beginning of classes for the term to avoid owing significant fees, receiving "F" grades, and being liable for repayment of financial aid funds. REGISTERING AFTER LATE REGISTRATION: For more information see the Registrar's Late Add/Late Registration page. DISCLAIMER: The following information is not intended to be comprehensive and is subject to change. Tuition, fees, and charges are subject to change by administrative, federal or state legislative changes, or University of Memphis Board of Trustees action, and changes become effective on the date enacted. Tuition and fee charges for all courses will be assessed by a student’s level and residency status. Students enrolled in the UM-Global are assessed tuition and fees based on the level of their program. The University reserves the right to correct errors in student fee assessments and charges which are discovered subsequent to the initial billings or fee statements. Tuition and fees are set regardless of the mode of instruction and the UofM reserves the right to determine the mode of instruction that it believes will best serve the student in consideration of the totality of the circumstances. In the event of an unforeseeable cause beyond the control of and without the negligence of the UofM, including but not limited to fire, flood, other severe weather, acts of God, interruption of utility services, acts of terrorism, pandemic, epidemic, disease at the housing facility or in the surrounding area/city/county, government restrictions, or the like, the UofM reserves the right to maintain the safety of the premises by any means, including but not limited to, transitioning on-ground classes online or temporarily suspending classes. Force Majeure In the event of an unforeseeable cause beyond the control of and without the negligence of the University, including but not limited to fire, flood, other severe weather, acts of God, interruption of utility services, acts of terrorism, pandemic, epidemic, government restrictions, or the like, the University reserves the right to maintain the safety of the premises by any means, including but not limited to closing or limiting access to campus and/or temporarily closing or restricting use of University residence facilities. Such actions shall not be considered a breach of contract and the University shall not be obligated to refund any amount already paid pursuant to this agreement. Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 5/4/22 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.