Skip to main content Clemson University Degrees Home Degree Programs MENU Modern Languages Education LEARN MORE ABOUT Educate and guide children who are exploring challenging academic years by majoring in modern languages education. This program prepares you to teach American Sign Language, French or Spanish to students in grades PK-12. The modern languages education degree is designed for you to obtain a dual major in education and your chosen content area — ASL, French or Spanish. From the moment you step foot into our classrooms, you’ll be a part of diversified field experiences that will sharpen your skills. Our top-level faculty are recognized for their excellence in teaching, and we focus on engaging and thought-provoking inquiry-based teaching and learning, intensive preparation in the content disciplines, ongoing interdisciplinary collaboration and community outreach. FAST FACTS Modern languages education is one of Clemson’s newest majors. Our students exceed more than 100 field hours prior to student teaching. Our 72-day student teaching internship exceeds the state’s certification requirements for student teaching by 12 days. The program provides students an opportunity to double major in education and their chosen content area – American Sign Language, French or Spanish. In the Spanish and French programs, a full-semester study abroad is required. WHAT YOU'LL STUDY Field experiences and clinical practice are critical components that allow you to apply your knowledge, skills and dispositions in a variety of settings. All field experiences are monitored to ensure that you have a chance to work with exceptional students and students from different ethnic, racial, gender and socioeconomic groups. The experiences represent a variety of early and ongoing school-based opportunities in which you may observe, assist, tutor, instruct or conduct applied research. These experiences extend the South Carolina Assisting, Developing and Evaluating Professional Teaching (ADEPT) performance standards into practice in school settings. Our focus is on meeting the needs of all the children you will teach. Students in the modern languages education program will choose an emphasis area in American Sign Language, French or Spanish. Most students will teach at the high school level, but they will be certified to teach PK-12 modern languages. While the modern languages education program is anchored in secondary education and most field experiences will be at the high school level, students will be exposed to all grade bands. Similar Majors Elementary Education (B.A.) Middle Level Education (B.S.) Modern Languages (B.A.) Secondary Education (B.A.) FIND OUT MORE Have more questions or want more information? Fill out the form below, which goes directly to the following department contact. If you’d also like to receive general University information from Clemson’s admissions office, please follow the link to the right and sign up to join our mailing list. Valerie Oonk Academic Adviser vwhite@clemson.edu Department Website College Website Loading... Department Website College Website Home Admissions Campus Life Academics Visit Outreach Research About Apply To Clemson Undergraduate Graduate Professional Online Education Employment Opportunities Policy/Terms of Use Text Version Web Accessibility Ethics/Safety Line Privacy Policy Site Information Copyright © 2015 Clemson University Clemson, South Carolina 29634 864-656-3311 Contact Clemson Stories for the Clemson Family Clemson University on Facebook Clemson University on Twitter Clemson University on Google+ Clemson University on LinkedIn Clemson University on YouTube Clemson University on Flickr Clemson University on Instagram Search Clemson University degrees Clemson Degree Programs Search Alphabetical List Schedule a Visit Campus Life Admissions Costs & Financial Aid Similar Majors To Modern Languages Education Elementary Education (B.A.) Middle Level Education (B.S.) Modern Languages (B.A.) Secondary Education (B.A.)