Skip to content Xavier University Apply to Xavier Request Info Visit Campus Giving to Xavier Open search dialog Open Navigation Menu Undergraduate Admission Admission Process Undergraduate Application Tuition and Aid Visit Campus Make Your Commitment Contact Us Close Undergraduate Admission sub menu Graduate Admission Apply to Xavier Graduate Financial Aid Events and Information Sessions Contact Us Close Graduate Admission sub menu Academics Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs Student Outcomes Academic Support Education Abroad Honors Programs Xavier University Colleges Close Academics sub menu Campus Life Residence Halls Campus Dining Options Clubs and Organizations Diversity Faith and Service Recreational Sports Cincinnati Health and Wellness First-Year Experience Close Campus Life sub menu Athletics goxavier.com Close Athletics sub menu About Xavier Xavier University Rankings Mission, Vision, and Values What is Jesuit Education? Close About Xavier sub menu Apply to Xavier Request Info Visit Campus Giving to Xavier Current Students Alumni Relations Employees Parents and Families Employment Opportunities Maps and Directions Search Xavier University: Search Education Abroad Xavier Home Education Abroad Menu Education Abroad Application Portal Start the Journey Education Abroad Programs Education Abroad Advising Application Study Abroad Forms and Policies Finances Muskies Around the World Faculty Programs and Resources US Dept of State - Student Resources Diversity Abroad Resources Frequently Asked Questions Xavier summer study abroad programs are underway! Follow us on Instagram (@XUInternational) to explore our students' experiences abroad. COVID-Related Information FAQ Questions about Coronavirus and Study Abroad Student Health Insurance Abroad Students participating in study abroad are encouraged to consider and carefully evaluate cancel for any reason (CFAR) insurance for all programs. Note that there is typically a limited time in which you can purchase the CFAR insurance after you make a deposit for your program, e.g. must purchase plan within 21 days of initial payment. Apply for or renew your US passport as soon as possible if you’re thinking of studying abroad in 2022. The US State Department is experiencing long delays -- expedited passports are taking at least 5-7 weeks and regular service is 8-11 weeks. Additionally, you are strongly advised to pay for the expedited service and return mail service. Generally your passport expiration date should be valid for 6 months after your departure date back to the US. Contact Us Gallagher Student Center Room 230 Email: studyabroad@xavier.edu Phone: 513-745-2864 Advising Information Students interested in study abroad are welcome to begin the planning process. Over the summer, you can meet with staff by appointment or via Zoom walk-in hours on Thursday and Friday from 1:00-3:00pm. Follow one of the steps below to reach us: Zoom with CIE staff during walk-in hours; Thursday and Friday from 1:00 to 3:00pm. (Zoom only) Fill out our intake form to schedule an appointment with an advisor. (In-person or via Zoom) Email us at studyabroad@xavier.edu to set-up an appointment. (In-person or via Zoom) Xavier University joins Generation Study Abroad as a Commitment Partner Apply to Xavier Request Info Visit Campus Xavier University 3800 Victory Parkway Cincinnati, OH 45207 513-745-3000 Privacy Policy Accessibility Policy Non-Discrimination Policy Editor Access Xavier University on facebook Xavier University on twitter Xavier University on linkedin Xavier University on youtube Xavier University on instagram