Skip to main content Skip to main navigation Law Menu Baylor Law About News Mission Statement and Core Values Baylor Law Learning Outcomes Practice Ready Law Professors, Life Coaches The Quarter System Quick Facts Public Service Legal Clinics Special Events Notice of Non-Discrimination Building Hours Contact Us History 100 Years of Practice Court Baylor Law Virtual Tours Academics Academic Calendar Academic Services Advocacy Transactional Degree Programs Executive LL.M. in Litigation Management Baylor Law Learning Outcomes Experiential Learning Legal Writing Study Abroad at St Andrews Baylor Law Review Admissions Explore Apply Finance Visit Admitted Students Quick Facts Executive LL.M. in Litigation Management Consumer Information (ABA Required Disclosures) Alumni & Giving Alumni Resources Get Involved Give Back Baylor Law School Alumni Information Update Submit Alumni Note Career Development Employers Current Students Employment Statistics Contact the CDO Baylor Law School Current Students Academic Services Calendars Health & Wellness Policies and Feedback Professional Development Leadership Development Student Life Title IX ABA Required Disclosures Law School Home Events Event Calendars Emergency and Closure Information Faculty & Staff Faculty and Staff Directory Faculty Scholarship Faculty and Staff News Faculty and Staff Resources Law School Home Library Library Collection Electronic Resources Library Services Policies and Information Library Online Catalog Technology Law School Baylor Law School 2017 Top Gun Baylor>Baylor Law>Academics>Advocacy>Top Gun National Mock Trial Competition>2017 Top Gun Competition 2017 Top Gun Baylor Law Hosts 8th Annual Top Gun National Mock Trial Competition WACO, Texas - Campbell University Law student Jacob M. Morse is Baylor Law's 2017 Top Gun National Mock Trial Competition champion. Earning the Title of "Top Gun" Jacob M. Morse of Campbell University, Norman Adrian Wiggins School of Law won Baylor Law's Top Gun National Mock Trial Competition on June 4, 2017. The mock case involved a plaintiff who filed a lawsuit to set aside an inter vivos gift and to recover personal property belonging to a decedent's estate. As the 2017 champion, Morse received a $10,000 prize and the title of the nation's "Top Gun" in mock trial competitions. Jacob Morse (with co-counsel Casey Peaden) of Campbell University School of Law accepts the $10,000 prize from Hayes Fuller, president of Top Gun sponsor Naman Howell Smith & Lee, PLLC in Waco, Texas. "I'm so thrilled about [winning]. I'm very happy to be here… last year, I remember being very disappointed. There are sixteen people here who could all win this trophy, and it takes a little bit of luck and a lot of hard work [to win]," said Morse. "I thought [the problem] was very challenging, and I don't think either side had a leg up. I think every single day I found something new about the problem that would either help or harm my side of the case." Morse thanked his second-chair, Casey Peaden, for all of her support, saying that she was his, "backbone" that made their success possible. After graduating and passing the bar, Morse intends to stay in Raleigh and litigate at a local firm. One of the Nation's Top Mock Trial Competitions Finalist Christopher Ray Clark gives his closing remarks during the final round. Now in its 8th year, Baylor Law's Top Gun National Mock Trial Competition is a prestigious, invitation-only mock trial tournament. The best advocates from the nation's top sixteen trial advocacy schools compete head-to-head in the winner-take-all tournament. "We started Top Gun in 2010, envisioning something radically new and different. With only 24 hours to prepare the case, only one lawyer for each side, a realistic case file that changes in some respect as the competition progresses, use of trial presentation software, and a winner-take-all prize of $10,000, Top Gun is singular among advocacy competitions. It challenges even the most seasoned and skillful mock trial competitors," said Gerald R. Powell, The Abner V. McCall Professor of Evidence at Baylor Law. "It is intense. It is hard. We push them and challenge them like they have never been tested before. In the end, they walk away with a sense of pride in their accomplishment." Top Gun differs from other advocacy competitions due to its innovative rules. Competitors do not have any information about the competition problem to prepare for in advance. After the competitors arrive at Baylor Law, they receive the case file and have only twenty-four hours to prepare both sides of the case before competing in the first rounds. The case packets given to competitors contain depositions, records, and photographs. Witnesses are provided by Baylor Law and the competitors have only a short period of time to prepare them for the trials. Baylor Law's Top Gun National Mock Trial Competition is underwritten by the law firm Naman Howell Smith & Lee, PLLC, which has offices in the Texas cities of Austin, Fort Worth, San Antonio, and Waco. The firm also sponsors an opening dinner and reception for the competitors. A reception announcing the competition's semifinalists was sponsored by the Atlanta office of law firm Wheeler Hudgins Gunn & Dial. Litsoftware, LLC donated a copy of TrialPad, a trial presentation software, to each competitor and the historic Hippodrome located in downtown Waco served as the setting for the case. A Realistic and Detailed Case File Photo Gallery A scorned lover, a deathbed, a hand-written note, and a historic property now worth millions–the 2017 Top Gun problem proved to be a fascinating tale of love and redemption, or betrayal and greed, depending on who you believe. The fictional decedent at the heart of the problem, James "Jimmy" Reade, a connoisseur of film and downtown Waco developer, died of pancreatic cancer. Before his death, Jimmy wrote a will in 2014 leaving the Waco Hippodrome to his sister, Taylor Reade Ashbrook. Two days before Jimmy slipped into a coma, his long-time ex-girlfriend, Hayley Wilson, went to visit him in the hospital. Hayley claimed that during this visit, Jimmy wrote a note gifting her his stock in his company that owns the downtown Waco landmark, the Hippodrome. The plaintiff, Taylor, argued that the inter vivos gift was invalid and should be set aside because Jimmy, suffering immense pain from cancer treatments and under the influence of heavy medication, lacked sufficient mental capacity to make the gift. She also claimed that the note was forged, or that it was procured by undue influence from Hayley. Hayley, the defendant, claimed that her love for Jimmy and their reconciliation led to his valid gift of the Hippodrome. This year's fictional case featured eight witnesses and over a hundred and fifty pages of exhibits, including depositions, medical records, and photos. The Top Gun competition has developed a national reputation for its realism and attention to detail. Particularly challenging to this year's problem, the competitors were required to master the nuances of Texas gift law and the Texas "DeadMan's Rule," with only 24-hours to prepare. "From the beginning eight years ago, we wanted the competition to be a structurally unique, totally smooth, hospitality-laden event that would leave all competitors and their coaches knowing that Baylor Law does it right ‘to the nines,'" said Baylor Law Dean Brad Toben. "The quality of the judges is one linchpin to the competition's success–with over eighty judges (made up of both state and federal judges and trial attorneys) and 36 trials unfolding over the five days, the real-life trial experience that our judges bring to the competition creates an unparalleled realism that excites and inspires the competitors to push themselves to do their very best." Serving as the presiding judge during the final round was the Honorable T. John Ward, Baylor Law JD '67, retired United States District Judge for the Eastern District of Texas. Serving on the jury as judges for the final round were: Marianne Auld, Baylor Law JD '88, partner and chair of Appellate Section, Kelly Hart & Hallman; Hayes Fuller, Baylor Law JD '79, president of Naman Howell Smith & Lee PLLC; Don Jackson, Baylor Law JD '83, partner at Ware, Jackson, Lee, O'Neill, Smith & Barrow, LLP; Lisa Jamieson, Baylor Law JD '84, of Pope, Hardwicke, Christie, Schell, Kelly & Taplett, L.L.P; Mark Mann, Baylor Law JD '81, partner of the MT2 Law Group; and Jennifer Rustay, Baylor Law JD '97, of Hagans Montgomery & Rustay, P.C. 2017 TOP GUN CHAMPION AND RECOGNIZED ADVOCATES Champion Jacob M. Morse (with co-counsel Casey Peaden) – Campbell University, Norman Adrian Wiggins School of Law Finalist Christopher Ray Clark (with co-counsel Nicholas Dellefave) – Syracuse University College of Law Semifinalists James Caress – Loyola Law School, Los Angeles Blake D. Smith – University of Missouri-Kansas City School of Law Professionalism Award Winner Jeananne Ayoub – Akron University School of Law Technology Award Winner Carmen Weite (co-counsel) and Curtis Seal – Samford University, Cumberland School of Law 2017 TOP GUN NATIONAL MOCK TRIAL COMPETITION ADVOCATES AND SCHOOLS Kareem Aref – University of California, Davis School of Law Jeananne Ayoub – Akron University School of Law James Caress – Loyola Law School, Los Angeles Allison Christian – Temple University, Beasley School of Law Christopher Clark – Syracuse University College of Law Colby Connell – Stetson College of Law Matt Covert – Georgetown University Law Center Connor Greene – Chicago-Kent College of Law Brandon Hughes – University of California, Berkeley School of Law Gramm Klein – South Texas College of Law Houston Jacob Morse – Campbell University, Norman Adrian Wiggins School of Law Amanda Mundell – Harvard Law School Philip Pasquarello – Thomas R. Kline School of Law at Drexel Curtis Seal – Samford University, Cumberland School of Law Blake D. Smith – University of Missouri-Kansas City School of Law Kara Simmons – American University, Washington College of Law UNDERWRITTEN BY SPONSORED BY SPECIAL THANKS TO For more information about Top Gun, please contact Kathy Serr, Advocacy Program Coordinator at Baylor Law at Kathy_Serr@baylor.edu or 254.710.3611. WRITTEN BY: Joshua Weaver, Marketing and Public Relations Specialist, Baylor Law CONTACT: josh_weaver@baylor.edu or 254.710.6681 PHOTOS BY: Nick Teixeira, Baylor Law ABOUT BAYLOR LAW Established in 1857, Baylor Law was one of the first law schools in Texas and one of the first west of the Mississippi River. Today, the school has more than 7,400 living alumni. It is accredited by the American Bar Association and is a member of the Association of American Law Schools. Baylor Law has a record of producing outstanding lawyers, many of whom decide upon a career in public service. The Law School boasts two governors, members or former members of the U.S. House of Representatives and the U.S. Senate, two former directors of the FBI, U.S. ambassadors, federal judges, justices of the Texas Supreme Court and members of the Texas Legislature, among its notable alumni. In its law specialties rankings, U.S. News & World Report ranked Baylor Law's trial advocacy program as #3 in the nation. Baylor Law is also ranked #51 in the magazine's 2018 edition of "America's Best Graduate Schools." The National Jurist ranks Baylor Law as one of the "Best School for Practical Training," and #4 in the nation in its most recent "Best Law School Facilities" listing. The Business Insider places Baylor Law among the top 50 law schools in the nation. Baylor Law received the 2015 American Bar Association Pro Bono Publico Award, making it only the third law school in the nation to be honored with the award since the award's inception in 1984. ABOUT BAYLOR UNIVERSITY Baylor University is a private Christian University and a nationally ranked research institution, characterized as having "high research activity" by the Carnegie Foundation for the Advancement of Teaching. The University provides a vibrant campus community for approximately 16,000 students by blending interdisciplinary research with an international reputation for educational excellence and a faculty commitment to teaching and scholarship. Chartered in 1845 by the Republic of Texas through the efforts of Baptist pioneers, Baylor is the oldest continually operating University in Texas. Located in Waco, Baylor welcomes students from all 50 states and more than 80 countries to study a broad range of degrees among its 12 nationally recognized academic divisions. Baylor sponsors 19 D1 varsity athletic teams and is a founding member of the Big XII Conference. Learn more at baylor.edu Academics Academic Calendar Academic Services Advocacy Top Gun National Mock Trial Competition 2021 Top Gun XII Top Gun XI - How We Did It 2020 Top Gun XI 2019 Top Gun X 2018 Top Gun Competition 2017 Top Gun Competition 2016 Top Gun Competition 2015 Top Gun Competition Transactional Practice Ready Transactional Courses Professional Tracks & Capstones Transactional Dual Degree Programs Transactional Faculty Transactional Law & Practice Court Legal Writing Business Law Boot Camp The Closer National Transactional Law Competition 2023 | The Closer 2022 | The Closer 2021 | The Closer 2020 | The Closer 2019 | The Closer 2018 | The Closer 2017 | The Closer In House Counsel Externship Program Competition Opportunities and Results for Current Students Transactional Law Mentorship Program Degree Programs Executive LL.M. in Litigation Management Baylor Law Learning Outcomes Experiential Learning Practice Court Program Legal Clinics Entrepreneurship Clinic Estate Planning Clinic Immigration Clinic IP Law Clinic Trial Advocacy Clinic Veterans Clinic Transactional Capstones Public Service Baylor Law's Pro Bono and Public Service Program Adoption Day People's Law School People's Law School | 2022 People's Law School 2022 Class Schedule People's Law School 2022 Survey People's Law School | 2021 Service Opportunities for Law Students Waco McLennan Pro Bono Challenge Waco McLennan Pro Bono Challenge Hours Recording Form Waco McLennan Pro Bono Challenge Sign-up Waco McLennan Outstanding Pro Bono Advocate Awards DAYL Pro Bono Challenge DAYL Pro Bono Challenge Hours Recording Form DAYL Pro Bono Challenge Sign-Up DAYL Pro Bono Annual Challenge Results DAYL Pro Bono Partners Service Award Resources Student Awards Competitions Intramural Opportunities Intermural Opportunities Externships Leadership Development Program Legal Mapmaker Legal Mapmaker Program Payment Study Abroad Legal Writing Integrated Approach Writing Courses Writing Faculty The Ultimate Writer Competition The Paper Chase Legal Writing Competition Study Abroad at St Andrews Baylor Law Review Show More General Information Colleges, Schools, Libraries & Research Admissions Administration Gateways For... About Baylor Anonymous Reporting Athletics Ask Baylor Bookstore Calendar Campus Map Directory Give Light Give to Baylor Illuminate Mental Health Resources News Pro Futuris Report It Search Social Media Title IX Baylor Libraries College of Arts & Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work George W. Truett Theological Seminary Graduate School Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Louise Herrington School of Nursing Research at Baylor University Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Engineering & Computer Science School of Music More Academics Undergraduate Admissions goBAYLOR Graduate Admissions Baylor Law School Admissions Social Work Graduate Programs George W. Truett Theological Seminary Admissions Online Graduate Professional Education Virtual Tour Visit Campus Annual Fire Safety and Security Notice Athletics Human Resources Marketing and Communications Office of General Counsel Office of the President Office of the Provost Operations, Finance & Administration Senior Administration Student Life University Advancement Baylor Alumni Faculty & Staff Online Graduate Professional Education Parents Prospective Faculty & Staff Prospective Students Students Sheila & Walter Umphrey Law Center 1114 South University Parks Drive One Bear Place #97288 Waco, Texas 76798 tel (254) 710-1911 fax (254) 710-2316 Building Hours Monday - Friday 8:00am - 5:00pm Saturday - Sunday Closed Holidays Closed Copyright © Baylor® University. All rights reserved. Legal Disclosures. Baylor University • Waco, Texas 76798 • 1-800-229-5678 About News Submit News Mission Statement and Core Values Baylor Law Learning Outcomes Practice Ready Law Professors, Life Coaches The Quarter System Quick Facts Public Service Legal Clinics Special Events LEAD Counsel - Making a Difference Conference 2021 | Making a Difference Conference Baylor Law Students 2020 | Vision for Leadership Conference 2019 | Making a Difference Conference 2018 | Making a Difference Conference 2017 | Making a Difference Conference Starr Federalist Papers Lecture Series Presented by John and Marie Chiles R. Matt Dawson Lecture Series Notice of Non-Discrimination Building Hours Contact Us History 100 Years of Practice Court Baylor Law Virtual Tours Academics Academic Calendar Academic Services Advocacy Top Gun National Mock Trial Competition 2021 Top Gun XII Top Gun XI - How We Did It 2020 Top Gun XI 2019 Top Gun X 2018 Top Gun Competition 2017 Top Gun Competition 2016 Top Gun Competition 2015 Top Gun Competition Transactional Practice Ready Transactional Courses Professional Tracks & Capstones Transactional Dual Degree Programs Transactional Faculty Transactional Law & Practice Court Legal Writing Business Law Boot Camp The Closer National Transactional Law Competition 2023 | The Closer 2022 | The Closer 2021 | The Closer 2020 | The Closer 2019 | The Closer 2018 | The Closer 2017 | The Closer In House Counsel Externship Program Competition Opportunities and Results for Current Students Transactional Law Mentorship Program Degree Programs Executive LL.M. in Litigation Management Baylor Law Learning Outcomes Experiential Learning Practice Court Program Legal Clinics Entrepreneurship Clinic Estate Planning Clinic Immigration Clinic IP Law Clinic Trial Advocacy Clinic Veterans Clinic Transactional Capstones Public Service Baylor Law's Pro Bono and Public Service Program Adoption Day People's Law School People's Law School | 2022 People's Law School 2022 Class Schedule People's Law School 2022 Survey People's Law School | 2021 Service Opportunities for Law Students Waco McLennan Pro Bono Challenge Waco McLennan Pro Bono Challenge Hours Recording Form Waco McLennan Pro Bono Challenge Sign-up Waco McLennan Outstanding Pro Bono Advocate Awards DAYL Pro Bono Challenge DAYL Pro Bono Challenge Hours Recording Form DAYL Pro Bono Challenge Sign-Up DAYL Pro Bono Annual Challenge Results DAYL Pro Bono Partners Service Award Resources Student Awards Competitions Intramural Opportunities Intermural Opportunities Externships Leadership Development Program Legal Mapmaker Legal Mapmaker Program Payment Study Abroad Legal Writing Integrated Approach Writing Courses Writing Faculty The Ultimate Writer Competition The Paper Chase Legal Writing Competition Study Abroad at St Andrews Baylor Law Review Admissions Explore Student Profiles Adan Abu-Hakmeh Lexie Ammons Allison Barber Paolo Ferrel Paige Heitkamp Drake Pew Leah Reyes Sami Shaffer Program Overview Advocacy Transactional Practice Legal Writing Experiential Learning Quarter System Community Career Development Curriculum More Information Request a Viewbook Is Law School Right for You? Consumer Information (ABA Required Disclosures) Accreditation Notice of Non-Discrimination Apply Dates and Deadlines Application Requirements JD Applicants Transfer and Visiting Student Applicants International Student Applicants Joint Degree Applicants Denied Application Review Quick Facts Application Status Checker Admissions FAQs Admissions Policies Finance Estimated Costs Financial Aid FAQs Scholarships Loans Veteran Information Financial Aid Step-by-Step Visit Individual Visits External Recruiting Events Open Houses Interviews Virtual Tours Pre-Law Visits Visiting Waco Finding the Admissions Office Admitted Students Next Steps Admitted Students Packet Scholarship Reconsideration Request Pay Your Seat Deposit Apply for Financial Aid Update Your Contact Information Set Up Your Student ID and Email Visits and Events Schedule an Individual Visit Attend an Admitted Students Day Watch a Virtual Tour Attend an Admitted Students Meal View a Recorded Session Attend an Open House Registration and Orientation Quick Facts Executive LL.M. in Litigation Management Consumer Information (ABA Required Disclosures) Alumni & Giving Alumni Resources Get Involved Give Back Baylor Law School Alumni Information Update Submit Alumni Note Career Development Employers Current Students Employment Statistics Contact the CDO Baylor Law School Current Students Academic Services Calendars Health & Wellness Policies and Feedback Professional Development Leadership Development Student Life Title IX ABA Required Disclosures Law School Home Events Event Calendars Emergency and Closure Information Faculty & Staff Faculty and Staff Directory Faculty Scholarship Faculty and Staff News Faculty and Staff Resources Law School Home Library Library Collection Electronic Resources Library Services Policies and Information Library Online Catalog Technology Law School