Skip to main content Search Global dropdown menu Research Support Subject Librarians Reach out to a librarian for specialized help in a discipline. Library Catalog Find books, audio and video, music scores, maps and more. Research Guides Use the best resources we have, picked by librarians. Databases There's a wealth of information to be found through our database subscriptions. Collections Print and digital collections serve as extensions of our teaching and research facilities. Research ServicesWe're available throughout all stages of your research. Quick Links Library Search JSTOR PubMed Make an Appointment Newspapers Journals Collections Program Borrow & Renew Library Catalog Find books, audio and video, music scores, maps and more in the catalog. Borrowing & Requesting Learn how to borrow materials at Dartmouth and from other libraries via BorrowDirect or DartDoc. Tech Loans We've got everything from chargers to a professional portable recording studio. Alumni Access and Resources How to access resources, on and off-campus. Media Discover an extensive range of movies, television series, documentaries, educational programs, audio and more. Off-Campus Access Students, staff, and faculty can access most of our electronic resources off-campus. Quick Links BorrowDirect DartDoc Course Reserves for Faculty Course Reserves for Students Libraries & Spaces Study and Meeting Spaces Book a meeting room for a group or sign up to use a private study room. Hours and Locations Our hours, holiday closings, street addresses and contact information. Baker-Berry Library Our main library houses the humanities and social sciences collections. Biomedical Libraries The Dana and Matthews-Fuller libraries support the disciplines of health and life sciences. Evans Map Room Houses thousands of sheet maps, mapping software, atlases, globes & more. Feldberg Business & Engineering Library Offers support for the Tuck School of Business & Thayer School of Engineering. Jones Media Center Provides facilities & collections for researching, viewing & producing media. Rauner Special Collections Library Includes rare books, manuscripts & more. Sherman Art Library Supports the departments of Art History, Studio Art, as well as the Hood Museum of Art. About Us Accessibility Events Latest News Privacy Policy Dean's Council for Equiy and Inclusion Strategic Objectives Visiting & Exhibits Help Library Search Learn about signing into your account, search options and tips, getting to resources and working with citations. Research Support We're committed to partnering with you to enhance and showcase your research. Publishing Support We provide consultation focusing on opportunities in digital publishing and scholarship. Subject Librarians We have a subject librarian for your major or course who wants to help! Teaching Support Working together with faculty, we can help design and implement effective research experiences for students. Workshops & Events We offer a variety of events to assist you in developing skills ranging from research to programming. Quick Links Contact Us FAQs Off-Campus Access Send Us Feedback Staff Directory Login Students, Faculty & Staff DHMC & Guests Alumni BorrowDirect DartDoc Toggle navigation Search Global dropdown menu Sherman Art Library Art Research Guides The Art Special Collection Borrowing Materials Exhibits Stacks Guide Staff Research Support Borrow & Renew Libraries & Spaces Help Login Students, Faculty & Staff DHMC & Guests Alumni BorrowDirect DartDoc Sherman Art Library Sherman Art Library stacks will be open for browsing on 3/21/22, from the entrance door near the Baker Berry Library Circulation Desk. Art Special collection materials may be viewed by appointment; https://libcal.dartmouth.edu/appointments/evansns Developed in 1929, Sherman Art Library is part of Carpenter Hall, and is connected to the Baker-Berry Library. The library supports all aspects of the curriculum, with special focus on the subject areas of Art History, and Studio Art, as well as support for the Hood Museum of Art. The extensive collection of books, periodicals, and online resources, includes exhibition catalogs from art museums and galleries around the world, image databases, and the Art Special Collection, which features handmade artists' books, facsimiles, catalogues raisonnés, and other rare items. The Sherman Art Library in 1929 @ Sherman Receuïl de Lions by Bernard Picart Past Exhibitions Department or section navigation Sherman Art Library Art Research Guides The Art Special Collection Borrowing Materials Exhibits Stacks Guide Staff Contact Information Sherman Art Library Carpenter Hall Hinman Box 6025 Hanover, NH 03755 603-646-2305 Today's Hours General Access: 8am - 2am Art Special: By Appointment Dartmouth Library Baker-Berry Library Book Arts Workshop Evans Map Room Jones Media Center Biomedical Libraries Feldberg Business & Engineering Library Rauner Special Collections Library Records Management Sherman Art Library About Us Strategic Objectives Staff & Departments Subject Librarians Faculty Services Alumni Services Visiting & History Accessibility Library Catalog Careers Friends of the Library More About Us Contact Us 25 North Main Street Hanover, NH, USA 03755 Phone: 603-646-2567 Contact Us Give Us Feedback Connect with Us Facebook Instagram YouTube Footer copyright Dartmouth Copyright © 2020 Trustees of Dartmouth College Privacy Last Updated: 3/16/22