COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW Credit for Prior Learning Section Menu Credit for Prior Learning Retroactive Credit in Health Professions and Foreign Language Training for Credit in Criminal Justice Transfer Gateway Kansas Collaborative on Military Credit Frequently Asked Questions (FAQ) Credit for Prior Learning (CPL) Wichita State University encourages students to seek credit for knowledge they may have acquired in a variety of ways through the Credit for Prior Learning (CPL) program . Students who have had college-level education through traditional or nontraditional means, and can demonstrate achievement, may be eligible to earn credit by following our Credit for Prior Learning process. Departments have varying policies as to any CPL that will be deemed equivalent to their courses. Once the equivalency is determined and posted to the student's record, it is acceptable in any department/program in which that course meets a degree requirement. CPL credits are posted as transfer work and not counted as hours earned at Wichita State. The below information is applicable for undergraduate (UG) students. For information on credit for prior learning in graduate programs contact the Graduate School at (316) 978-3095. Credit for Prior Learning FAQ's Prior Credits & Credentials Students may transfer credit and credentials earned by courses from other institutions and military training. In addition, WSU has worked extensively with Kansas community colleges to develop Transfer Guides a list of courses that will transfer to the University's various departments. CPL awarded by all accredited institutions of higher education is evaluated in the same manner as regularly graded coursework from these institutions. The credit awarded is adjusted to the CPL policies of Wichita State. Every attempt is made to ensure that credit for prior learning applies to both a student's degree program and university requirements for graduation. However, in no case may a transfer student receive more credit than the credit available to students at Wichita State. Follow this link to WSU's full Transfer and Articulation Process. Follow this link to the Kansas Collaborative on Military Credit. Send your transcripts to WSU. Haven't been admitted to WSU? Click here to get started. Prior Knowledge Undergraduate credit may be obtained in the various areas listed below. CPL will not be awarded for duplication of credit or to replace course grades. Students should check with an academic advisor before attempting any test or other means of CPL assessment to ensure the credits will transfer. For information on CLEP testing options, visit WSU Testing Services. CPL - Prior Knowledge Options offered at WSU: Type Yes No AP National Exams x CLEP National Exams x Corporate ACE Credit Recommendation Services x Credit for ACT/SAT scores x DANTES DSST Exams x Departmental Exams x GED College Ready Math Testing (ACE Credit) x Institutional Challenge Exams x Institutionally-evaluated Training for Credit x International Baccalaureate (IB) Credit x Life Experience Evaluation x Military Courses/Training Credit x Portfolio Assessments x Retroactive Credit x Future Learning Experiences Transcripts Credits for prior learning are posted to a student's transcript as soon as paperwork is received/validated and posted to the academic record by the Registrar's Office. They appear as transfer work because it is credit for learning that did not occur through enrollment in a WSU course. There is no overall cap on how much CPL a student may earn. However, WSU graduation requirements still apply, which include: 45 hours of upper division credit 60 hours from a 4-year school (the last 24/30 or last 50/60 hours must be taken at WSU) At Wichita State University, a student can use CPL for: General Education Major Requirements Minor Requirements Certificate Programs Elective Credits Academics As Kansas' only research university in an urban setting, Wichita State offers opportunities other schools can't match. 66 undergraduate majors, over 50 graduate majors, 200 areas of study and the largest cooperative learning program in the state, WSU has your future in mind. Course Catalogs Links to online versions of the official Wichita State University course catalogs. Every course offering available at WSU described in detail. Badge Courses Wichita State University's badge program makes workforce training and continuing education accessible and affordable. Each badge is designed with the practicing professional in mind so coursework can be completed online and at your own pace. Internships and Careers At Wichita State, students have unmatched opportunities to gain real-world experience while earning credit in their intended fields of study. Cooperative Education WSU students earn work experience, college credit and a paycheck – all while bolstering their resume and getting a leg up on the competition. Experience-based Learning Learn. Work. Live. Play. Wichita State combines quality degrees with the limitless real-world, experience-based learning opportunities only found in Kansas' largest city. Learn about the ways WSU equips students to build the futures they want. More Academics Links Research Credit for Prior Learning Formula: Which Departments Accept CPL Credits? Departments have varying policies as to any CPL (credit by exam, retroactive credit, etc.) that will be deemed equivalent to their courses. Once the equivalency is determined and posted to the student's record, it will be acceptable in any department/program in which that course meets a degree requirement. Plan of Study As CPL credits are applied to the transcripts, students should work closely with their advisor to coordinate and maintain a plan of study through graduation. Find an advisor Quick Links: Transfer to WSU Apply for Admission Testing Services Frequently Asked Questions 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©