Skip to main content Submit Close Give to UH Search About Academics Admissions Campus Life Research Athletics Locations Sugar Land Katy UH Technology Bridge News & Events Giving UH Home About UH University Offices Enrollment Services Office of Integrated Enrollment Services Enrollment Services Office of Admissions Office of the University Registrar Office of Scholarships and Financial Aid Office of Student Business Services Office of Integrated Enrollment Services Coronavirus (COVID-19) FAQs Related Listings Academic Calendar How to Apply for Financial Aid University of Houston: Billing Due Dates UH at Sugar Land UH at Katy Office of Integrated Enrollment Services Funny Money College Tour Funny Money College Tour This FREE (did we say free?) event will promote the importance of financial wellness and give you the confidence to take care of your financial future! Enjoy an interactive "fireside-chat" style conversation with financial experts and celebrate gaining new financial knowledge with some of the most hilarious comedians and talented industry influencers. Thursday, December 2, 2021 from 6-8 PM in the Student Center Theater Get Your Free Ticket Summer 2022 Hours We are here for YOU – in several ways! Our representatives are available by email, phone, virtual (video) appointment, or by seeing us in person at the Welcome Center. Please visit our various departmental websites for more information! View Welcome Center Hours Monday- Thursday 8 a.m. – 5 p.m. Friday 9 a.m. – 5 p.m. View Call Center Hours Monday- Thursday 8 a.m. – 5 p.m. Friday 9 a.m. – 5 p.m. View Scheduled Virtual Appointments Hours Monday- Thursday 8 a.m. – 5 p.m. Friday 9 a.m. – 5 p.m. Office of Admissions Scholarships and Financial Aid Office of the University Registrar Student Business Services As advocates for student success, Integrated Enrollment Services resolves complex student issues and helps students stay in college. We break down silos between campus departments to provide a seamless student experience. We also offer financial literacy counseling to the University community, represent Enrollment Services at Sugar Land and Katy, manage operations within the Welcome Center and provide myUH training to staff and faculty. Mailing Address University of Houston Office of Integrated Enrollment Services Welcome Center 4434 University Drive Houston, TX 77204-2023 Contact Information Email: enroll@uh.edu Areas of Responsibility Enrollment Services Welcome Center Staff myUH Training Financial Literacy Money Management Institute Office Staff Executive Director Dr. Patrick Lukingbeal Associate Director Jamie Bush Communications Manager Pamela Ogden Administrative Coordinator Sabrina Grant IES Coordinator Kelsey Legard University of Houston Houston, Texas 77204 (713) 743-2255 A–Z Index Academic Calendar Campus Carry Policy Campus Map Career Opportunities Directory Emergency Information Get Help Human Resources Library Mental Health Resources Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Office of the President Parking Report Copyright Infringement Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness Open Records/Public Information Act Texas Veterans Portal Tuition & Fees UH System Virtual Tour ©2022 University of Houston. All rights reserved. Report a problem with this page Texas.gov Texas Homeland Security TRAIL Fraud Reporting Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Linking Notice Privacy Notice Open Records/Public Information Act Institutional Résumé Required Reports Electronic & Information Resources Accessibility Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness University Policies