Skip To Main Content Report an Accessibility Barrier The Department for Disability Support Services Search | Menu Search Resources Email Canvas Banner PiratePort PirateID IT Help Videoconferencing Engage Work Request Directory Maps Virtual Tour A-Z Index Academic Calendar Event Calendar Catalog PRR Catalog A-Z Recently Updated Interim Repealed About Policy Sources University Policy Committee Help PRRs> Campus Environment> Environmental Safety> Environmental Health and Safety Requirements for Events - Version 1 Environmental Health and Safety Requirements for Events - Interim Version 1 (Current Version) Print All Versions: Version 1 Policy REG05.10.02 Title Environmental Health and Safety Requirements for Events Category Campus Environment Sub-category Environmental Safety Authority Chancellor History Approved September 25, 2017 Contact Assistant Director of EH&S, (252) 328-6166 Safety Manager, (252) 328-6166 Safety Specialist, (252) 328-6166 Related Policies University Regulation Concerning Weapons on Campus Freedom of Expression Regulation Additional References Environmental Health and Safety Considerations for Events Guide (pdf) Application for Use of Open Flame Devices (doc) North Carolina Health Code 15A NCAC 18A.2600 (pdf) Tent Application (pdf) Department of Labor Requirements for Inflatables Inflatable Device Application (pdf) 1. Introduction: East Carolina University hosts or sponsors many public assembly events (“Events”). Events include any gathering for deliberation, worship, entertainment, eating, drinking, amusement and similar uses including, but not limited to, meetings, conferences, commencement, sporting events, political rallies, and similar assembly functions. Persons attending an event (“Participants”) may be members of the campus community, members of the public, or a combination of both. The well-being of all Participants is critical to the success of these Events. Environmental health and safety requirements have been developed to help ensure safe and orderly Events. 1.1 Purpose: The purpose of this regulation is to provide environmental health and safety requirements for Events. The Environmental Health and Safety Considerations for Events Guide should be referenced for specific requirements. 1.2 All fees and other requirements regarding safety, insurance, and liability releases applicable to Events hereunder shall be administered in a content-neutral manner pursuant to clear, non-discriminatory and non-discretionary published criteria. 2. Responsibilities 2.1 Event Sponsor 2.1.1 The Event sponsor must schedule Events through the Central Reservations Office (CRO) or other authorized sub-scheduler (list of authorized sub-schedulers maintained by CRO), in compliance with the Freedom of Expression Regulation. The Event sponsor is responsible for compliance with this regulation, the Environmental Health and Safety Considerations for Events Guide, and all other applicable laws, policies, rules and regulations concerning Event safety. The sponsor or a responsible representative of the sponsor must attend the entire Event and function as the point of contact for the office of Environmental Health and Safety (EH&S), the ECU Police and other authorized University officials. 2.2 Central Reservations Office 2.2.1 The CRO is responsible for overseeing space scheduling and Event logistics at East Carolina University. The CRO offers guidance in event scheduling and planning, and works with EH&S, sub-schedulers and campus facilities and service providers as needed to help ensure a safe Event. 2.3 Environmental Health & Safety (EH&S) 2.3.1 EH&S will provide consultation to Event sponsors regarding compliance with this regulation and any other safety-related laws, policies, regulations or rules. 2.4 ECU Police 2.4.1 The ECU Police may provide public safety, security and law enforcement oversight of Events held on campus and take intervention measures as appropriate to help facilitate an orderly and safe Event. 3. Procedures/Requirements 3.1 Event Safety 3.1.1 The Event must comply with the Environmental Health and Safety Considerations for Events Guide. Topics covered in this guide include, but are limited to, Emergency Management, Exit and Means of Egress Management, Compressed Gases and Hazardous Materials, Electrical Extension and Power Cords, Lighting and Visual Effects, Decorations, Open Flames and Pyrotechnics (Fireworks), Cooking/Grilling, Food Safety, Tents/Canopies, Inflatables and Animals. The Event must also comply with all other applicable laws, policies, rules and regulations concerning Event safety. 3.1.2 All open flames and pyrotechnic devices are prohibited, except when used by (a) the University’s approved vendors for food preparation, maintenance, construction, and instructional and research activities, or (b) the University. All such activity by the University or its approved vendors is subject to any applicable laws, policies, regulations, rules or ordinances. 3.2. Event Security 3.2.1 The number and type of security personnel required for each event will be determined by the ECU Police. 3.2.2 The ECU Police and other authorized officials have authority to shut down or move an Event in certain circumstances. Please refer to the Freedom of Expression Regulation. 3.2.3 Masks and disguises that conceal identity are not allowed on campus except when worn in direct and substantial furtherance of an Expressive Activity that is not otherwise prohibited or limited as set forth in the Freedom of Expression Regulation or any other University Policy, Regulation or Rule, or applicable law. They may not be worn if they interfere with or disrupt University educational activities, functions, meetings, ceremonies or other events. In this context, “Expressive Activity” includes, but is not limited to, theatrical performances and traditional holiday garb, such as is worn during Halloween. Masks and disguises in violation of this Regulation must be removed as directed by the Police or other ECU officials, acting in a content-neutral manner. This Regulation shall not be interpreted as prohibiting masks when used solely in the course of employment or for physical protection. 3.2.4 Weapons on campus are regulated pursuant to the University Regulation Concerning Weapons on Campus. 3.3 Event Insurance 3.3.2 To the extent permitted by applicable law, policy, regulation or rule, the Event sponsor may be required to obtain general liability insurance in the amount of $1million per occurrence and $3 million in the aggregate, naming East Carolina University as an additional insured, in connection with any Events expected to involve any of the following: The estimated attendance exceeds 500 persons; Alcoholic beverage service; Special recreational equipment such as bounce houses, rock climbing towers, or vehicles; Live animals (excluding service animals and comfort animals); Substantial participation by persons under 18 years of age who are not ECU students; Overnight residency on campus, i.e., overnight camps Fireworks and other pyrotechnics; or Food preparation not provided by Campus Dining. Additional guidance regarding the objective factors used to determine if liability insurance will be required shall be published by the CRO. 3.4 Event Consent and Release of Liability 3.4.1 To the extent permitted by applicable law, policy, regulation or rule, the Event sponsor may be required to obtain releases of liability from the Event participants, releasing and agreeing to indemnify and hold harmless the University and its agents and employees from liability in connection with the Event. Risk Management and/or University Counsel may advise on the necessary legal wording of releases of liability prior to the event. Additional guidance regarding the objective factors used to determine if releases will be required shall be published by the CRO. 4. Program Review This document should be reviewed no less than every three years and whenever material changes in related laws and/or regulations occur. East Carolina University E 5th Street | Greenville, NC 27858 | 252-328-6131 ©2022 | Terms of Use | Accessibility | Report a Barrier