Skip to main content Temple University Explore Temple’s Schools and Colleges Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Support Temple Temple University Search Site Search Full Menu Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees President History & Traditions Temple Health News & Media Offices Public Information Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Development Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Libraries Economics Major You are here Home Academics Degrees and Programs Economics Major Apply Request More Info Economics Major Admissions Careers, Internships & Opportunities Required Courses Research & Facilities Scholarships & Financial Aid Bachelor of Business Administration in Economics Gain a deeper understanding of the complexities of resource allocation and the economic forces that drive society with the Bachelor of Business Administration (BBA) in Economics, a joint offering between Temple University’s Fox School of Business and the College of Liberal Arts. Economics provides insights into all facets of our personal and professional lives, improving our understanding of the world around us and our individual decision-making. This 124-credit undergraduate program offers a well-rounded analytical, historical and practical foundation in the science of economics. The Economics BBA is a small program with ample opportunity for students to interact and collaborate with faculty. You will start by building a thorough quantitative base through courses in microeconomics, macroeconomics and statistical analysis among other subjects. Economics majors also broaden their scope by examining international economic issues and studying economic policy and regulations, as well as professional development strategies. Take advantage of expansive opportunities to explore potential career opportunities and meet industry professionals through student professional organizations like the Temple Economics Society and membership with Omicron Delta Epsilon, one of the largest academic honor societies worldwide. Graduates are prepared for a wide range of careers. Many Economics majors enter managerial positions in both the public and private sectors, while others choose to continue with professional study in business, the health sciences, law or public administration. Learn more about careers and opportunities. Classes & Curriculum As part of the Economics BBA program, students will need to complete core courses in subjects including Microeconomic Analysis, Intermediate Macroeconomic Analysis, Econometrics, International Economics and Economics Writing Seminar. Learn more about required courses within the Economics curriculum. Related Graduate Degrees Business Analytics MS Financial Analysis MS Related Graduate Certificates Innovation Strategy Accelerated 3-year BBA Motivated students can accelerate their BBA program to finish in three years. To find out more about completing your degree on an accelerated timeline, contact your advisor. Tuition & Fees In keeping with Temple’s commitment to access and affordability, the Bachelor of Business Administration offers a competitive level of tuition with multiple opportunities for financial support. Tuition rates are set annually by the university and are affected by multiple factors, including program degree level (undergraduate or graduate), course load (full- or part-time), in-state or out-of-state residency, and more. Learn more about our tuition and fees. These tuition costs apply to the 2021–2022 academic year. Pennsylvania resident: $21,144.00 per year Out-of-state: $38,544.00 per year Our Academic Advisors The Center for Undergraduate Advising in the Fox School of Business is dedicated to helping students navigate their academics and make informed decisions about their career paths. See a full list of undergraduate academic advisors. Peer Advising The Center for Undergraduate Advising also offers peer advising at the Main Campus location. Undergraduate peer advisors offer the perspective of an upper-level student and assist by sharing their knowledge and personal tips for academic success. Program Contact For more information about your degree program, contact the faculty below. Kate Markowitz is the director of enrollment management for undergraduate students. Phone: 215-204-4892 Email: kmrick@temple.edu Tom Carney is the assistant director of undergraduate enrollment. Phone: 215-204-5424 Email: tom.carney@temple.edu Claudia Bereshnyi is the assistant director of transfer, veteran and online BBA recruitment and the contact for both incoming transfer students and those interested in an online BBA. Phone: 215-204-4100 Email: claudia@temple.edu Drew Hashimura is the coordinator of enrollment management. Phone: 215-204-2070 Email: ahashimura@temple.edu Student Clubs & Organizations Joining student clubs and organizations is a great way to meet like-minded students; connect with local, national and international businesses; and build the skills you’ll need in your professional career. Enhance your academic experience by participating in a club related to your major or interests. The following clubs and organizations are available to economics students in the Fox School of Business. Omicron Delta Epsilon (ODE) is an international economics fraternity with chapters in Australia, Mexico and Europe. The fraternity’s objective is to promote the study of economics, provide networking opportunities and assist in real world learning experiences for its members. Explore the full list of Fox School of Business student clubs and organizations. Global Immersions Broaden your understanding of global economies and business practices by taking advantage of the various study abroad options and opportunities for learning beyond Temple’s Main Campus in Philadelphia through Global Immersion Programs. Temple administers several programs around the world, including campus sites in Rome, Japan and Spain, faculty-led summer programs and exchange programs in Europe and Asia. Interested students may also participate in approved programs organized by study abroad organizations or other U.S. universities, or apply directly to an accredited institution overseas. Temple’s Education Abroad office provides information on approved programs, and advisors can work with you to determine which program might provide the best fit. Learn more about study away options. Temple Exchange Programs Through reciprocal exchange agreements with the following universities, Temple students can exchange places with students for a semester or academic year. Some programs require sufficient proficiency in the host country language to participate. China: Hong Kong Baptist University Korea: Ewha Womans University, Yonsei University, Sogang University Taiwan: National Taiwan University Learn more about Temple exchange programs (PDF). Accreditation The Fox School of Business is accredited by the Association to Advance Collegiate Schools of Business (AACSB). The school has maintained AACSB accreditation since 1934. BU-ECBU-BBA Additional Program Information Available as a minor. School/College Site View Program Details Go back to AcademicsMore in Economics Major Admissions Careers, Internships & Opportunities Required Courses Research & Facilities Scholarships & Financial Aid Apply Request More Info Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Calendar Policies Social Media TUportal TUmail Accessibility Careers at Temple Safety & Emergency Information Ethics & Compliance Privacy Statement Professional Licensure Disclosures Follow Temple University Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community. Apply Request More Info