Skip to main content Top Bar PENN SUSTAINABILITY HOME News Contact View Upcoming Events » Main navigation Our Commitment Overview President's Message About Penn Sustainability Our Plan Our History Our Team Annual Progress Reports STARS Plan Videos Initiatives Overview Learning Sustainability Conserving Energy Designing Green Minimizing Waste Reducing Emissions Purchasing Practices Eating Local Wellness Partners Overview Academic Centers Schools and Centers Student Groups Morris Arboretum Resources Overview FAQs Guides & Manuals Tours and Maps Participate Overview Students Staff and Faculty Penn Community Conserving Energy Energy Management at Penn The University of Pennsylvania has committed to the goal of achieving 100% carbon neutrality by 2042, a goal we call 100 x 42. The Operations and Maintenance Department, within the Division of Facilities and Real Estate Services (FRES), works with the Environmental Sustainability Advisory Committee's Utilities and Operations Subcommittee to identify and execute funded projects that meet this goal. Conservation Initiatives Solar Power Purchase Agreement In 2020, the University of Pennsylvania signed a Power Purchase Agreement (PPA) for the creation of a solar power project moving the University significantly closer to meeting its commitment of a 100% carbon-neutral campus by 2042. The agreement (consisting of two contracts) will result in the construction in central Pennsylvania of two new solar energy facilities with a combined capacity of 220 megawatts, which is projected to produce approximately 450,000 MWh of electricity annually. Penn will purchase all electricity produced at the sites – equal to about 75% of the total electricity demand of the academic campus and the University of Pennsylvania Health System – for 25 years at a rate competitive with conventional electricity prices. The project partner, Radnor, Pennsylvania-based Community Energy, expects this to be the largest solar power project in the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania. Penn intends to retire all Pennsylvania Alternative Energy Credits produced by the project, meaning that the solar power generated will be above and beyond Pennsylvania Alternative Energy Portfolio Standard requirements, and will be key to meeting the campus’ carbon reduction goals. Century Bond Program The implementation of the Century Bond program will allow Penn to accelerate building renovation programs. This program includes two key components: first, $300M worth of funds were raised through bond sales in the spring of 2013, and secondly, a rigorous analysis was conducted of Penn buildings and building systems to determine how best to use the available bond funding. Nine buildings have been identified for HVAC and systems replacements, and 45 buildings are slated for comprehensive lighting upgrades. Operations Command Center Penn saves more than $5-million annually in energy costs through state-of the-art central monitoring and control of utilities. From its Operations Command Center, Penn engineers can control campus-wide chilled water and steam utilities, and air-handling systems in buildings across the campus. Through sophisticated temperature/time optimization, temperature setback, and demand management techniques, Penn is able to avoid costly peak utility charges and conserve energy year-round. Chilled Water Loop Campus buildings are fed from a central chilled water loop completed in 2007 after 19 years of planned incremental growth and an investment of over $200 million. Penn's chiller plant freezes water at night when energy costs are low to provide supplemental daytime cooling capacity, reducing Penn's burden on the regional electrical grid and saving money. By the end of 2015, there are plans to expand the existing building with 10,000 tons of new steam-driven chillers and associated cooling towers. Members of the Penn Community may view total electricity usage for campus overall and by building by clicking here. (PennKey required). Center for Environmental Building and Design Partnership The Center for Environmental Building and Design, formerly known as the T.C. Chan Center for Building Simulation and Energy Studies, is a faculty-led research group in Penn’s School of Design with a long history of providing assistance to the University’s sustainability efforts. The Center completed the initial carbon emissions inventory for Penn in 2005, and since the launch of the 2009 Climate Action Plan has consulted on a variety of energy efficiency projects, including the creation of the Penn Carbon Calculator. In FY14, the Center was commissioned to provide the technical analysis of the building renovation and recommissioning proposals included in this plan, and assisted in the development of the carbon reduction goals. The Center’s findings were documented in Energy, Carbon, and Financial Analysis of Climate Action Plan Scenarios for Buildings. Metering and Cost-allocation Model With the launch of the 2009 Climate Action Plan, Penn began a comprehensive steam and chilled water metering initiative on campus. Not only did the initiative aim to put these meters in a majority of campus buildings, but it also simultaneously implemented new visualization and analysis capabilities of the metered energy data. As of FY14, the metering initiative is 98% complete, with 388 meters installed over the past five years. With the completion of the comprehensive metering initiative, Penn Facilities & Real Estate Services began to accumulate sufficient data to initiate plans for direct billing of Schools and Centers based on their actual building-specific energy use, instead of the long-standing method of billing based on estimated costs. Billing using actual steam meter data will begin in FY16 and chilled water meter data will be used starting in FY17, with meter-based billing being phased in over four years for all metered buildings. Energy Ticker In 2012, the Penn Institute for Urban Research collaborated with FRES, PJM Interconnection, the Philadelphia Navy Yard, PECO, EEB Hub and DOE Grid Star to develop a real-time energy ticker online to promote energy education and conservation. The energy ticker updates every five minutes and provides the current regional and wholesale price of electricity in the PECO zone – encouraging conservation by making users aware of the costliest energy use times. Recommissioning The goal of Penn’s Recommissioning Program, established in 2010, is to “tune up” existing building systems back to the level at which they were designed to operate. The program assesses campus building performance and then recommends targeted maintenance and repair. As a result of the Recommissioning Program, Penn has been able to identify common Energy Saving Opportunities (ESOs) across campus. Many of these ESOs can be applied to all buildings on campus, including items like discharge air temperature reset on air handling units and the adjustment of ventilation rates to current standards. Identifying and addressing recurring ESOs throughout campus has been an important contribution to the Recommissioning Program. Penn Sustainability 3101 Walnut Street Philadelphia, PA 19104 sustainability@upenn.edu Social Links Our Committment Penn's 2042 Carbon Neutrality Goal Power Purchase Agreement: A 25-Year Commitment The Plan The University of Pennsylvania's Climate and Sustainability Action Plan Penn Sustainability ENewsletter Subscribe to our E-Newsletter » Program Highlights Student Eco-Reps Green Fund Staff and Faculty Eco-Reps Green Labs Footer Report Accessibility Issues and Get Help Disclaimer Copyright Information Privacy Policy © 2022 University of Pennsylvania Website Design and Programming: 4x3, LLC