Moores Opera Center  - University of Houston Skip to main content Restrict my search to Kathrine G. McGovern College of the Arts Submit Close Login to AccessUH Give to UH Search Moores School of Music About Health & Safety News Mission Faculty and Staff Antiracism Initiatives Facilities Contact Us Admissions Undergraduate Admissions Graduate Admissions Auditions Scholarships Visit Academic Programs Bachelor of Music Bachelor of Arts Undergraduate Minors Master of Music Doctor of Musical Arts Certificate in Performance Divisions Composition Conducting Music Education Music Theory Musicology Organ Percussion Piano Strings Voice Winds Ensembles AURA Bands Chamber Choirs Jazz Mariachi Opera Orchestra Percussion Events and Outreach Get Tickets Calendar of Events Moores Opera Center Camps, Festivals, and Recital Series Student Recital Information Moores Music in the City Community Arts Academy Giving Moores Society UH Home Kathrine G. McGovern College of the Arts Moores School of Music Events Moores Opera Center Moores Opera Center Page contents: Intro Current Season Giving Recordings Production History Alumni Edythe Bates Old Moores Opera House Buck Ross Edythe Bates Old Professor of Music Director of Moores Opera Center Email: bross@uh.edu Phone: 713-743-3162 MSM 184 Moores Opera Center is a nationally recognized opera training program led by founding Artistic Director Buck Ross. We treat our program like a professional regional company, producing four fully staged operas per year performed by all-student casts and orchestra in the magnificent 800-seat Moores Opera House. Our imaginative productions regularly win National Opera Association awards in the most competitive division in the United States. Moores Opera Center's New Opera Initiative ensures that one opera per season was written in the past twenty years, and living composers frequently visit to attend the regional premiere of their recently-composed works. Our alumni are regularly accepted in some of the most prestigious apprentice programs in the US and go on to have careers performing in opera houses and recital halls around the world. Come see a Moores Opera Center production to discover one of Houston’s best kept opera secrets! Get Tickets Giving Season Subscription 2021 - 2022 Season SUPPORT Donate Now Scholarship Fund Media Opportunities Underwrite an entire or partial production! Sets, props, scholarships, orchestra costs, projections, publicity, stage hands, accompanists, makeup, or wigs, the list is endless and so is the need. Every donation is appreciated. Join Moores Society to connect with others who support the Moores Opera Center through programs and events that benefit scholarships, special projects and educational opportunities for music students at the University of Houston. Recordings A Room with a View The Newport Classic label has released a DVD of our production of Robert Nelson’s opera A Room with a View with a libretto by Buck Ross, based on the novel by E. M. Forster. It is available on Amazon and through other outlets. Casanova’s Homecoming The Newport Classic label has released a CD of our production of Dominick Argento’s comic opera Casanova’s Homecoming. It’s available on Amazon and other music retailers. Production History Complete Production Archive Video Recordings Our productions have consistently won awards with the National Opera Association since we started entering in 2011. Notable contemporary productions have included Dominick Argento’s Miss Havisham’s Fire and Casanova’s Homecoming, Conrad Susa’s The Dangerous Liaisons, Christopher Theofandis’ The Thirteen Clocks, Robert Nelson’s The School for Scandal and A Room with a View and Jonathan Dove’s Flight. We were the first university to produce Ricky Ian Gordon’s The Grapes of Wrath, Robert Aldridge’s Elmer Gantry, and Daron Hagen’s Amelia, John Musto’s The Inspector, David Carlson’s Anna Karenina, and Thomas Pasatieri’s Frau Margot. Composer Daniel Catán was so impressed by our production of his opera Florencia en el Amazonas that he asked us to do the second U.S. production of his new opera Il Postino right after its premiere in Los Angeles with Placido Domingo. We continue with a project to produce all of Mr. Catán’s operas. In addition to the expected standard operatic repertory, other memorable Houston premieres included Prokofiev’s The Love for Three Oranges, Weber’s Der Freischütz, Barber’s Vanessa, Massenet’s Chérubin, Rossini’s Il viaggio a Reims, Weill’s The Rise and Fall of the City of Mahagonny, Mozart’s Lucio Silla, Shostakovich’s Moscow, Cheryomushki, Mechem’s Tartuffe, and Rota’s The Italian Straw Hat. Alumni News Prospective Students Be successful! Moores Opera Center alumni are continually among those who are selected for apprentice programs, win competitions, and are cast in roles with leading opera houses around the world. Our graduates have gone on to perform at the Metropolitan Opera, New York City Opera, Lyric Opera of Chicago, San Francisco Opera, Houston Grand Opera, Santa Fe Opera, Seattle Opera, Minnesota Opera, Florida Grand Opera, Virginia Opera, Los Angeles Opera, Austin Opera, Opera Colorado, Des Moines Metro Opera, and many other American houses, as well as European houses such as La Scala, Teatro San Carlo, the Vienna State Opera, and the Bavarian State Opera. Our alumni do great things! Jessica Jones, ‘09, MM ‘11 2022 Covering roles at The Metropolitan Opera 2019 Grammy Winner for her role on the recording of Mason Bates' The (R)evolution of Steve Jobs 2019 Premiered the title role of Poul Ruder’s The Eleventh Child at Santa Fe Opera Galeano Salas, ‘11 Ensemble tenor at Bayerische Staatsoper, Munich Central City Opera, 2021 (The Duke, Rigoletto) First Prize, 2016 International Eva Marton Singing Competition Second Prize, 2017 Alfredo Kraus Competition Katherine DeYoung, MM ’18 2021-2022 Roles and covers, Lyric Opera of Chicago 2020-2021 Ryan Center Ensemble Artist, Lyric Opera of Chicago 2019 Apprentice Artist at Santa Fe Opera 2020 Metropolitan Opera National Council Finalist Andrew Gilstrap, ’16, MM ’18 2021-2022 Bayerische Staatsoper, Munich, Studio Artist 2021 Des Moines Metro Opera, Studio Artist 2019-2020 Resident Artist at Minnesota Opera The 800 seat Moores Opera House is arguably the finest university opera production facility in the country. The opening 1997 season included our first production of John Corigliano’s The Ghosts of Versailles, putting us on the national opera radar! The Opera House was designed to emulate the acoustic space of an old European opera house while providing the modern equipment demanded in today’s world. Boasting an enormous orchestra pit, full fly capacity and state of the art sound equipment, it allows performances of the largest operas while still maintaining a sense of intimacy. It gives young voices a chance to develop properly by not subjecting them to the demands of an acoustically unforgiving large hall. Featuring a movable, flexible-size orchestra shell, it also serves as the performance space for our orchestra, wind ensembles, choral groups, and chamber music. Visually it is dominated by a spectacular installation by artist Frank Stella that attracts visitors from around the globe. 3700 Cullen Blvd, Room E128 Houston, TX 77204-4039 713-743-3019 Contact Us Moores School of Music 713-743-3009 moores@uh.edu KGMCA Box Office 713-743-3388 Music Admissions 713-743-5934 musicadmissions@uh.edu Schools and Centers Moores School of Music 713-743-3009 School of Art 713-743-3001 School of Theatre & Dance 713-743-3003 M.A. in Arts Leadership 713-743-4817 Blaffer Art Museum 713-743-9521 Cynthia Woods Mitchell Center for the Arts 713-743-7008 ©2022 University of Houston. All rights reserved. Report a problem with this page Texas.gov Texas Homeland Security TRAIL Fraud Reporting Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Linking Notice Privacy Notice Open Records/Public Information Act Institutional Résumé Required Reports Electronic & Information Resources Accessibility Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness University Policies