Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Fogelman College - Department of Finance, Insurance and Real Estate Welcome Programs Faculty Research Admissions & Current Students FCBE Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact Programs Undergraduate Finance Course Catalog Finance (B.B.A.) Finance, Real Estate Concentration (B.B.A.) Minors Banking and Financial ServicesBusiness FinanceReal EstateRisk Management and Insurance Certificates Financial Analyst & Planning Programs Professional Real Estate Tracks Financial Analyst Financial Planning Master of Science in Business Administration (M.S.B.A.) concentration in Finance Doctor of Philosophy (Ph.D.) in Business Administration with concentration in Finance Program Rankings Take Action Cook Analytics & Trading Lab Seminars Contact Us Return to FCBE Follow Us Online Facebooktwitter Home FIR Programs Financial Planning Track Financial Planning Track Program Description The Department of Finance, Insurance and Real Estate offers an undergraduate track in financial planning that meets the specific criteria for students who wish to fulfill the education component for obtaining CFP® certification. This Financial Planning Educational Program/Track is registered with the Certified Financial Planning Board of Standards Inc. to verify that the student has completed coursework covering all 72 topics tested on the CFP® Certification Exam. We offer the only on-site CFP Board (Washington DC) recognized program in Memphis and surrounding areas. Taught by experienced and well renowned faculty, the students who successfully complete this program are deemed to have met the Education requirement set forth by the Financial Planning Board and are eligible to sit for the CFP® Certification Examination. This Financial Planning Educational Program/Track will help students to develop the needed skills to pursue career opportunities in the financial services industry. Career Opportunities Financial Planners, Accountants, Bankers, Attorneys, Stock Brokers, Investment Advisors, Insurance Producers, Retirement or Benefits Professionals, Other related Professionals and Career Changers. Program Requirements These 6 courses, (a) cover the 72 CFP exam topics and makes them eligible to sit for the exam, (b) count towards their FIR degree and (c) provide a departmental certificate indicating completion of the track: ACCT 3510 - Federal Income Tax I FIR 3410 - Financial Management FIR 4870 - Risk Management or FIR 3810 - Principles of Risk and Insurance FIR 3710 - Investments FIR 4011 - Retirement and Estate Planning FIR 4620 - Cases in Financial Planning or FIR 4610 - Cases in Managerial Finance Upon completion of the 6 courses (with a grade of C or better), students should contact their UG academic advisor or faculty advisors listed below for verification, program completion documentation, and CFP board reporting. In addition, the following electives are recommended for strengthening your knowledge base: ACCT 2010, ACCT 3130, FIR 3720, FIR 3310, MGMT 3510. Students have a 3-in-1 opportunity (Finance Degree, CFP exam education requirements eligibility, Departmental certificate indicating track completion). Additional CFP Certificate Information: The Department of Finance, Insurance and Real Estate has CFP board recognition of the University of Memphis, Finance degree. Courses required to meet the CFP exam educational requirements are here. Non-finance majors may register as non-degree students and take the courses listed on the link above. More information about non-degree seeking students is available here. For Information regarding the Fee structure and costs for the University of Memphis, Fogelman College of Business and Economics, Department of Finance, Insurance and Real Estate courses see the Bursar office. Dr. Jeff Black 901.451.9156 | email Frank Allen, CFP | email Dr. PK Jain 901.678.5930 | email Mark Alpuente (FIR Advisor) 901.678.2855 | email Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 3/10/22 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.