COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW WSU News April 11, 2022ScholarshipsWSU FoundationstudentsAccess and AffordabilityW. Frank Barton School of Business WSU business school surpasses $1 million scholarship landmark By WSU Strategic Communications The W. Frank Barton School of Business at Wichita State University has surpassed seven figures in annual scholarships for its students, with funds being distributed throughout the 2021-2022 season. It’s the first time the Barton School has reached this major milestone, which was made possible by a collection of substantial funds given to the Barton School by generous donors and supporters. This achievement is another example of how Wichita State prioritizes the goal of providing an accessible, affordable and impactful higher education for all students. “Giving our students opportunities they deserve is our top priority,” said Dr. Larisa Genin, dean of the Barton School of Business. “$1 million in scholarships is life changing for so many of our students. This wouldn’t be possible without the support of our donors and the WSU Foundation, who have helped secure these scholarships over a number of years.” The $1 million landmark features a combination of substantial scholarships and other significant educational assistance that supports many programs, majors and disciplines. “Scholarships have a transformational impact on students,” said Elizabeth King, president of the WSU Foundation. “Not only do they ease the financial burden of higher education, they provide emotional relief and instill confidence in their recipients.” These scholarships, coupled with the academic offerings, applied learning opportunities, innovation programming and the industry experts and knowledgeable faculty make the Barton School the destination for business students. “The Barton Scholarship has completely changed how I view my opportunities during and after college,” shared Ella Tucker, who was named the 2022 Clay Barton Scholar, which awards $50,000 every year and is one of the largest business scholarships in Kansas. “I feel like I have the whole world in front of me.” Learn more about scholarship offerings through the Barton School Scholarships Funding your high-quality Wichita State education is easy. Once you're admitted, we'll send you an automatic scholarship offer if you're eligible. You could also qualify for some of the more than $100 million in other scholarships and financial aid we award each year. In addition, many of our out-of-state students qualify for in-state or reduced tuition. Learn more about scholarships at Wichita State Read more stories like this Related Stories Talent Pipeline Beyond the Classroom: Anllir Ramirez-Tenorio Access and Affordability Beyond the Classroom: Keegan Staats WSU Foundation Woolseys give $1.3 million to fulfill vision for Wayne and Kay Woolsey Hall Talent Pipeline Beyond the Classroom: Alia Michaelis 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©