Skip to content Columbia University Irving Medical Center Find People Events Faculty and Staff Resources Give Now Search About Us About Us Facts and Figures Explore CUIMC Events Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion at CUIMC Community Development and Alumni Explore CUIMC Leadership and Administration A-Z Listing Affiliated Hospitals Campus Map and Directions Campus Resources Contact CUIMC Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion At CUIMC, we are committed to continuous improvement in providing culturally inclusive medical education and clinical care. Learn About Our Commitment Education Education Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons Mailman School of Public Health School of Nursing College of Dental Medicine VP&S Columbia Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons is dedicated to developing the next generation of leaders in medicine Learn About Our Academic Programs Research Research The Louisa Gross Horwitz Prize Columbia Technology Ventures Research Administration Columbia Clinical Innovation Lab Patient Care Patient Care ColumbiaDoctors Children's Health Columbia Primary Care Herbert Irving Comprehensive Cancer Center ColumbiaDoctors Dentistry Digital Health Services at Columbia Find a Doctor Search for a provider by specialty, expertise, location and insurance. Schedule an appointment online. Find a Doctor News News For the Media Share Your News CUIMC Update CUIMC Celebrates Columbia Medicine Read the latest news stories about CUIMC faculty, research, and events Explore Our News COVID-19 Resources for CUIMC COVID-19 Resources for CUIMC COVID-19 Information for Patients COVID-19 Campus Safety for Employees and Students COVID-19 Vaccine Information For CUIMC Employees and Students COVID-19 Information and Resources for Clinical Staff COVID-19 Vaccine Information Learn about COVID-19 vaccine availability and requirements for employees and students at CUIMC Get the Latest Information Neurology Topics Campus News Research Medical School Public Health Cancer Mental Health Infectious Diseases Neurology Neuroscience Education Heart Health Pediatrics View All Topics Search All News Keywords News Subtopics: Alzheimer's Epilepsy Parkinson's Stroke Top Stories Missing Link Between Alzheimer’s and Vascular Disease Found? A gene called FMNL2 may explain why people with hypertension, diabetes, heart disease, or obesity have a greater risk of developing Alzheimer's disease. Topic Alzheimer's Transient Ischemic Attacks May Be Brief But Need Serious Attention A transient ischemic attack (TIA) is a stroke that usually lasts under five minutes and resolves on its own, but just because the symptoms disappear, does not mean a TIA should be ignored. New Initiative to Develop Personalized Therapies for People with Rare Genetic Forms of ALS A new initiative led by Columbia University and the n-Lorem Foundation will develop personalized therapies for individuals with "nano-rare" genetic forms of ALS and treat them for free, for life. Topic Campus News Genetic Testing for Parkinson’s Disease: What You Need to Know Parkinson’s patients and their families are increasingly turning to genetic testing to learn more about their disease or risk of passing it on. But testing is complex, and counseling is advised. Topic Campus News Latest News Delayed Recovery of Consciousness Is Common for COVID Patients on Respirators March 15, 2022 COVID patients who remain unresponsive after receiving respiratory support may require long time periods to regain consciousness; delays are related to blood oxygen levels. Topic COVID-19 Common Thread May Cause Many Neurodegenerative Diseases March 7, 2022 A newly discovered protein tangle has been associated with multiple neurodegenerative diseases and may have a role in causing the diseases. Topic Neuroscience How to Cope When Daylight Saving Time Starts March 7, 2022 A one-hour time change may not seem like much but it causes health and sleep issues. Here's advice from Columbia doctors to minimize the effect. Topic General Medicine In Alzheimer's, Aged "Railroad Tracks" Within Neurons May Impair Memory February 15, 2022 One of the cell's most common proteins may become too old and too stable in Alzheimer’s disease, altering neuronal activity and impairing memory. Topic Alzheimer's Promising ALS Therapy Moves Closer to Clinic January 24, 2022 Based on Columbia research, an experimental drug for a rare type of ALS is being tested in a phase 3 clinical trial after a new study found that the drug lowered levels of a toxic protein. Topic Campus News Surviving COVID: Comorbidities Don’t Tell the Full Story November 11, 2021 A study of more than 500 hospitalized COVID patients found that comorbidities do not necessarily result in the worst outcomes. Topic COVID-19 14th Merritt’s Neurology Continues Columbia Tradition November 1, 2021 Since 1955, “Merritt’s Neurology,” edited by Columbia neurologists, has been regarded as the standard reference work in the field. James Noble, MD, joins the ranks for the latest edition. Topic Campus News Columbia Scientists and Team of International Experts Awarded $9M to Investigate Early Parkinson's October 27, 2021 New technology will allow scientists to uncover what happens in the brain during the early stages of Parkinson's disease, which could lead to earlier diagnosis and better therapies for the disease. Topic Neuroscience Omega-3s May Hold Key to Unlocking Blood-Brain Barrier June 16, 2021 Spectacular images of a molecule that shuttles omega-3 fatty acids into the brain may open a doorway for delivering neurological therapeutics to the brain. Topic Neuroscience Driving Behaviors Harbor Early Signals of Dementia May 7, 2021 Driving data captured by vehicle recording devices can help detect mild cognitive impairment and dementia in older drivers, Columbia researchers have found. Topic Public Health Pages 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 … next last Columbia University Irving Medical Center NewYork-Presbyterian About Us Careers News Education Patient Care Research Resources at CUIMC Columbia University Irving Medical Center 630 West 168th Street New York, NY 10032 United States Follow Us Facebook Twitter YouTube LinkedIn Instagram Back to top