Skip to main content Submit Close Give to UH Search About Academics Admissions Campus Life Research Athletics Locations Sugar Land Katy UH Technology Bridge News & Events Giving UH Home Academics Libraries & Learning Resources Academics Majors & Minors Graduate & Professional Programs UH Faculty Colleges & Departments Libraries & Learning Resources Courses & Enrollment Online and Special Programs Academic Forms Libraries & Learning Resources At the University of Houston, we understand that learning doesn’t end when class does. From writing workshops and math tutoring to our state-of-the-art libraries, we offer a wealth of services and facilities to help you succeed in and out of the classroom. For example: Libraries The university’s library offers state-of-the-art resources for students, staff and faculty. Additional library facilities are available to serve specific colleges and audiences. Career Counseling From choosing a major to crafting a killer resume and beyond, University Career Services will help you make your career happen. Counseling & Psychological Services Counselors work with students individually and in workshops on crisis intervention, counseling, career exploration, assessment for learning disabilities and more. Disability Services UH’s Justin Dart, Jr. Student Accessibility Center provides accommodations and support services to university students who have any type of temporary or permanent health impairment, physical limitation, psychiatric disorder or learning disability. Learning Support Services Among the resources available are tutoring, guidance on study habits and active learning as well as workshops on such topics as time management and math anxiety. Math Lab The math department’s Center for Academic Support and Assessment offers one-on-one tutoring for undergraduate math courses. University Testing Services University Testing Services offers resources and services to support student learning and success, teaching, instruction, course support through exam grading, and consultation for program evaluation and assessment needs. Writing Center Need a little help structuring your ideas? UH’s Writing Center offers one-on-one consultation and more to help you gain confidence in your writing ability. Related Links Places to Study on Campus Ask a Librarian a Question University of Houston Houston, Texas 77204 (713) 743-2255 A–Z Index Academic Calendar Campus Carry Policy Campus Map Career Opportunities Directory Emergency Information Get Help Human Resources Library Mental Health Resources Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Office of the President Parking Report Copyright Infringement Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness Open Records/Public Information Act Texas Veterans Portal Tuition & Fees UH System Virtual Tour ©2022 University of Houston. All rights reserved. Report a problem with this page Texas.gov Texas Homeland Security TRAIL Fraud Reporting Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Linking Notice Privacy Notice Open Records/Public Information Act Institutional Résumé Required Reports Electronic & Information Resources Accessibility Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness University Policies