Skip to main content Skip to main content SMU Home Giving Giving Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. Simmons About Dean's Message Programs, Degrees, and Certifications Faculty and Staff Directory Simmons Governance Simmons School History Executive Board Simmons Luminary Award XPRIZE Honor Code Simmons Resources Travel-Study Programs Simmons Lecture Series AERA 2022 Graduation Ceremony May 2022 Paving the Way to Inclusion Conference Simmons Graduate Council Faculty and Administrative Position Openings Simmons Blogs and Social Media Hub Annette Caldwell Simmons Hall Harold Clark Simmons Hall Photo Tour Contact Us Academic Departments & Areas of Study Applied Physiology & Wellness B.S. | Applied Physiology & Sport Mgmt. Undergraduate Specializations Applied Physiology and Health Management Sport Management Sport Performance Leadership M.S. | Health Promotion Management M.S. | Sport Management Non-Degree | Wellness Dispute Resolution & Counseling M.S. | Counseling Specialties Clinical Mental Health Marriage, Couple and Family School Counseling M.A. | Dispute Resolution Non-Degree | Dispute Resolution Specialties Executive Coaching Education Policy & Leadership M.Ed. | PK-12 School Leadership M.Ed. | Higher Education Ed.D. | PK-12 School Leadership Ed.D. | Higher Education Graduate Liberal Studies MLS | Science, Arts, & Humanities DLS | Science, Arts, & Humanities Non-Degree | Science, Arts, & Humanities Ph.D. in Education Teaching & Learning B.S. | M.Ed | MBE | Ph.D. Graduate Specializations Bilingual Special Ed ESL Gifted Literacy Math STEM Urban Education Research Research A comprehensive list of Simmons research projects Faculty Research Publications & Presentations Recent research publications and presentations Center on Research & Evaluation (CORE) Offers comprehensive program evaluation services, largely in the non-profit sector, and performs education research Research in Mathematics Education Conducts research in mathematics education and disseminates findings Integrative Physiology Laboratory Investigates autonomic function and thermoregulation in healthy and clinical populations Locomotor Performance Laboratory Studies terrestrial locomotion and the relationship of muscle function to metabolic energy expenditure and performance Center for VR Learning Innovation Investigates the use of virtual, augmented and mixed reality for education and human development Youth Sports Impact Partnership SMU and the Children’s Health Andrews Institute have launched a collaboration dedicated to improving the health, activity levels, and well-being of kids. Research Resources for Simmons Faculty and Staff Technology and Education Cluster Our Faculty Community Engagement Advanced Placement Summer Institute Summer Institute for AP and Pre-AP Teachers The Budd Center Partners with community agencies to offer educational opportunities for disadvantaged children Center for Family Counseling Counseling services in Plano for individuals and families College Access Programs Programs and workshops that help students advance academically Institute for Leadership Impact Leaders in education, health and social enterprise enhance skills to lead organizations and solve real-world problems Project Connect A repository of ideas, activities and videos for educators interested in improving instruction for English Language Learners West Dallas STEM-Focused School Preparing students for the next generation of STEM jobs Alumni Search Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. Navigate Search Skip to main content PK-12 School Leadership M.Ed. Accelerated School Leadership M.Ed. Accelerated School Leadership Admission Course Descriptions Curriculum Tuition TEA Grievance Policy M.Ed. Urban Educational Leadership M.Ed. Urban Educational Leadership Admission Curriculum Course Descriptions Tuition TEA Grievance Policy Ed.D. Degree Ed.D. Degree Admissions Course Descriptions Meet Our Students Schedule and Calendar Tuition and Financial Aid TEA Grievance Policy News Faculty TEA Grievance Policy ☰ Ed.D. in Educational Leadership SMU Simmons: Ranked among the top 12 private graduate schools of education in the nation Academics PK-12 School Leadership Ed.D. in Educational Leadership Personalized Education Leadership Learning Ed.D. in Educational Leadership students are values-driven, results-oriented leaders who are passionate about promoting excellence and equity for all students in pre-K to 12 educational settings. Whether you have a leadership role in a school or central office or serve in a nonprofit or public agency, the SMU Ed.D. prepares leaders to expand their influence in service of pre-K to 12 students. Apply Now Admission Events Contact Us Educational Leadership program provides an intensive experience that supports personal and professional transformation in ways that prepare scholar-practitioners to effectively lead innovative and collaborative pre-K to 12 organizations. The program is a three-year executive-style program in which students gather in person 10 weekends each year as well as two Summer intensive sessions. In addition, an online community supports continued learning in between live class sessions. Located in the heart of Dallas with convenient access to both Love Field and DFW International Airport, the schedule is designed for mid-career professionals to further their education while continuing to work. “We need to build partnerships in order to meet the needs of our students and our families.” – Melanie Magee, Student Learn It Today. Apply It Tomorrow. Leadership is not only studied, but demonstrated through the curriculum and through blending inquiry and action in students’ ongoing professional work experiences. The curriculum is designed to develop knowledge, skills, and dispositions to effectively lead educational organizations. Students gain insights into complex challenges during a weekend session and apply the learning on Monday. While the vast majority of coursework is tailored for each program, joint learning opportunities are provided through a select set of courses and guest speakers in order to foster dialogue across the pre-K to 16 continuum. Be Tested. Grow More. Every leader is unique in talents and areas for growth. Cultivate and test your leadership skills through simulations, case study analyses, and team projects. We use diagnostic assessments combined with extensive feedback on oral, written, and video-based performance tasks to personalize a leadership path and accelerate your growth. An applied dissertation serves as a capstone experience and is designed for students to build upon and demonstrate leadership competencies through engaging in a multifaceted inquiry project based on a problem of practice. Access Experts. Expand Your Network. Courses are taught by leading experts in both research and practice and are supplemented by practicing educational leaders – from district superintendents to nonprofit executive directors to state and federal leaders. A small cohort allows for individualized attention and frequent interaction with faculty. The Result Students will graduate prepared to be system-level change agents in school systems, state and federal organizations, nonprofit and for-profit organizations, and foundations. Our Ed.D. does not simply prepare students for a job; it prepares leaders to be in the business of changing minds and lives throughout one’s career. Courses Below are the courses currently planned for the program. Courses may be modified as we model a process of continuous improvement based on student feedback and faculty reflection. Year One (24 Credits) Ethical & Moral Leadership Leading Organizations Academic Leadership I: Research on Teaching & Learning Academic Leadership II: Improving Student & Adult Learning at Scale Quantitative Inquiry Qualitative Inquiry Methods of Systematic Inquiry Education Budgeting and Finance Year Two (24 Credits) Policymaking and Politics in Education Governance, Partnerships, and Community Engagement Strategic Management of Change Strategic Talent Management Superintendent Internship OR Leadership Practicum (6 credits) Pre-K to 16 Comparative International Policy Legal & Ethical Issues in School and District Leadership Year Three (12 Credits) Contemporary Education Policy Leading for Equity and Diversity Applied Dissertation (6 credits) Texas Superintendent Certification Those interested in pursuing superintendent certification will be able to complete the requirements within the three-year degree plan by substituting two courses for internship hours. Interested candidates will need to meet requirements for the Texas Superintendent Certificate prior to admission (including possession of a valid Texas Principal Certificate). Ed.D. in Educational Leadership Admissions Course Descriptions Meet Our Students Schedule and Calendar Tuition and Financial Aid TEA Grievance Policy Request info Contact the Department of Education Policy and Leadership Contact Us 214-768-3354 Request Information Visit Us Annette Caldwell Simmons Hall 3101 University Blvd, Suite 345 Dallas, Texas 75275-0114 Connect with Us Contact Us Maps and Directions Legal Disclosures © Southern Methodist University, PO Box 750100, Dallas, TX 75275 facebook twitter