By continuing to use this site, you agree to the use of cookies in accordance with our privacy policy. Dismiss Stay Safe The official source of public health information for Syracuse University. Skip to Content Open menu About Admissions Academics Life Athletics More Search the University Open search Popular searches Close menu Home About Toggle dropdown Leadership Vision & Mission Consumer Information Facts & Figures Plan Your Visit Campus Map History News Partnerships Work at Syracuse Social Media Bookstore Brand Help & Contacts Admissions Toggle dropdown Undergraduate Graduate Online Part-Time Cost & Aid Request Information Visit & Tour Apply Academics Toggle dropdown Schools & Colleges Undergraduate Majors & Minors Graduate Degrees Online Programs Syracuse University Global Study Abroad Opportunities & Support Calendars Departments Research Centers & Institutes Libraries, Collections & Galleries Academic Administration Life Toggle dropdown Accessibility & Diversity Campus Highlights Events Calendar Services & Support Meals & Dining Housing Groups & Activities Recreation & Facilities For Students For Veterans & Military For Faculty & Staff For Parents & Families A-Z Index Sitemap Login Athletics Men’s Sports Toggle dropdown Basketball Cross Country Football Lacrosse Rowing Soccer Track and Field Women’s Sports Toggle dropdown Basketball Cross Country Field Hockey Ice Hockey Lacrosse Rowing Soccer Softball Tennis Track and Field Volleyball Athletics Dept. Toggle dropdown Facilities Staff Directory Academic Honors Community Service Spirit Program Varsity Club Sports Medicine Championships Fan Zone Toggle dropdown Dome Schedule Seating Information Orange All Access Otto’s Kids Club Game Photos Promotions Orange Club Schedules News Alumni About Toggle dropdown Notable Alumni Alumni Association Awards News Events and Clubs Toggle dropdown Orange Central Northeast Midwest South West World/Affinity Regions Toggle dropdown Atlanta Boston Chicago Los Angeles Middle East New York San Francisco Washington, DC Services Toggle dropdown Career Network Generation Orange Directory Profile Class Notes Giving Contact Contact Visit Apply Coronavirus Updates Forever Orange Home Stay Safe Faculty and Staff In this Section Subcommittee Roster Faculty Input–Academic Strategy Faculty and Staff Latest Updates COVID-19 Update: Effective Wednesday, June 1, Masking Level Returns to Yellow (May 27) COVID-19 Update: Public Health Protocols for Summer 2022 (May 17) See all updates Important Information for Faculty and Staff Update Your Personal Contact Information in MySlice It’s more important than ever to keep your address, phone number, email(s) and emergency contact updated in MySlice should COVID-19 contact tracing need to occur. View step-by-step instructions . Care@Work The University offers an institutional membership in the caregiving website Care.com to benefits-eligible faculty and staff. It provides eligible employees with premium, unlimited access to Care.com to find child care providers, tutors, errand runners, senior caregivers, pet walkers and sitters, house cleaners and more through the world’s largest network of caregivers. Carebridge Resources The Human Resources website has been updated to include supplemental resources from Carebridge to assist our faculty and staff as we all navigate the unique challenges related to COVID-19. In particular, Carebridge is providing resources to support employees and leaders in reducing the risk for illness, tending to the needs of loved ones while remaining focused and productive with work responsibilities. IT Security Awareness The changes in work structure as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic have created more opportunities for hackers and phishers to access the personal data of our students, faculty, staff and alumni. Please be even more vigilant than usual in identifying phishing emails, scams and attempts to gain access to home-based systems. The ITS Information Security Department has some security guidelines to help you keep your home computer, personal data and the data of the University safe from hackers. If you have any questions or feel that you have been the victim of a scam or phishing attack, please contact the Information Security department at itsecurity@syr.edu. Library Resources Syracuse University Libraries has recently added two important online subscriptions: The New York Times and The Wall Street Journal. Access is available to all students, faculty and staff with a valid Syracuse University NetID and @syr.edu email address, from which you can establish an online account. Instructions and additional information are provided on news.syr.edu . Teaching Support For faculty in need of teaching support, including course design, contact the Center for Teaching and Learning at CTLE@syr.edu. University Travel Effective May 23, 2022, travel for University purposes freely resumed subject to usual approval processes. All travelers must continue to register their travel at http://travelregistry.syr.edu. Faculty and staff travelers are strongly encouraged to plan in advance for the possibility of contracting Covid-19 and the need to isolate with consequent travel disruption. Departments or units sponsoring student travel MUST have a plan to accommodate any required to isolate or quarantine and be prepared to support the traveler during any confinement. Any costs associated with Covid-19 isolation while travelling are the responsibility of the sponsoring department. International travel that includes students is subject to the University’s travel safety policy (see: Travel Safety - Policies – Syracuse University). As a reminder, student travel to destinations rated as a Level 3 or 4 by the U.S. State Department is considered high risk and is subject to review by the University. Those with questions about travel safety issues may contact Seth Tucker, Director, Global Safety and Support at satucker@syr.edu or 315-443-1968. Wellness Resources and Opportunities Faculty and staff are encouraged to remain aware of and engage in Wellness Initiative offerings as their schedules allow. More Information Frequently Asked Questions COVID Testing COVID Levels Fall 2021 Academic Planning Group Report Return to Campus Plan COVID-19 Research Guidance Resources for Faculty and Staff Disability Access and Inclusion Working Committee Syracuse University Human Resources Popular Toggle dropdown Academic Calendar Campus Map Careers Libraries Majors and Minors Visit and Tour A-Z Toggle dropdown Academic Departments Schools and Colleges Sitemap Search Contact Toggle dropdown Admissions Financial Aid Emergency Contacts Human Resources Make a Gift Login Toggle dropdown MySlice Blackboard SUMail Syracuse University 900 South Crouse Ave. Syracuse, NY 13244 Phone: +1.315.443.1870 Follow S.U. on Instagram Like S.U. on Facebook Follow S.U. on Twitter Follow S.U. on LinkedIn Follow S.U. on Tiktok Subscribe to S.U. on YouTube © Syracuse University. Knowledge crowns those who seek her. Accessibility Accreditation Emergencies Privacy