Skip to main content Temple University Explore Temple’s Schools and Colleges Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Support Temple Temple University Search Site Search Full Menu Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees President History & Traditions Temple Health News & Media Offices Public Information Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Development Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Libraries Accounting and Financial Management MS You are here Home Academics Degrees and Programs Accounting and Financial Management MS Apply Request More Info Accounting and Financial Management MS Admissions Careers & Opportunities Required Courses Research & Facilities Scholarships & Financial Aid Master of Science in Accounting and Financial Management Acquire the expertise to advance in the complex and competitive field of accounting with Temple University’s Master of Science in Accounting and Financial Management in the Fox School of Business. Learn how to work cross-functionally to achieve organizational goals and transform companywide operations in a rapidly changing environment. The 30-credit hour, online Accounting and Financial Management master’s degree program is designed to meet the time constraints of working professionals. Each course builds critical skills for accounting and financial planning and analysis roles so that students can earn their degrees, develop key competencies and prepare for the exams required to become a certified management accountant (CMA). Certified management accountants focus on strategic management; the Accounting and Financial Management master’s degree program develops student aptitude for the following executive-level functions. Analyzing budgets and using data to make informed business decisions Leading strategic planning processes Maintaining organizational compliance with relevant standards and regulations Managing organizational risk Monitoring organization performance The goals of the Accounting and Financial Management master’s program align with the skills required of enterprise professionals and are based on the six content areas of the CMA exam. Students prepare for both parts of the exam—Financial Planning, Performance and Analytics, and Strategic Financial Management—and earn CMA certification upon successful completion of the exam. Program Format & Curriculum The Accounting and Financial Management MS is a 30-credit, part-time program delivered completely online. Students have up to five semesters to complete the program. The following coursework is required. Accounting for Managerial and Investment Analysis and Planning Accounting Information Systems for Management Business Strategy in a Global Environment Financial and Managerial Accounting in Decision Making Independent Study Leading Organizations Managerial Cost Accounting Strategic Cost Analysis for Enterprise Management Learn more about the Accounting and Financial Management MS courses. Tuition & Fees In keeping with Temple’s commitment to access and affordability, this Master of Science offers a competitive level of tuition with multiple opportunities for financial support. Tuition rates are set annually by the university and are affected by multiple factors, including program degree level (undergraduate or graduate), course load (full- or part-time), in-state or out-of-state residency, and more. These tuition costs apply to the 2021–2022 academic year. Pennsylvania resident: $1,142.00 per credit Out-of-state: $1,142.00 per credit Learn more about our tuition and fees. Our Advisors AJ Kreimer is the academic director of the Accounting and Financial Management program. Phone: 215-204-4230 Email: ajkreimer@temple.edu Program Contact Elizabeth Gordon is a professor and the chair of Fox’s Department of Accounting. Phone: 215-204-6422 Email: egordon@temple.edu Student Clubs & Organizations Joining student clubs and organizations is a great way to meet like-minded students; connect with local, national and international businesses; and enhance the skills you use in your professional career. Fox offers more than 30 student professional organizations. Supplement your academic experience by participating in a club related to your major or interests. The following clubs and organizations are available to students in Fox. The Fox Graduate Student Association connects students and alumni with the greater Fox community, providing professional development, networking and volunteer opportunities for graduate students. The mission of Net Impact is to grow and strengthen a network of leaders who use the power of business to make a positive economic, environmental and social impact. It brings together students seeking to network and to use the power of business to create a better world. The International Business Association brings together students from all over the world to learn about foreign business and the global economy, and offers an array of professional development opportunities. Fox Professional Speakers invites students to practice their communication, presentation and leadership skills in a supportive and positive environment. Those with dreams of starting their own business may be interested in the Entrepreneurial Students Association, which aims to support, inspire and encourage students to pursue their entrepreneurial goals. The association is open to students of all majors. See a full list of student clubs and organizations. Accreditation The Fox School of Business is accredited by the Association to Advance Collegiate Schools of Business (AACSB). The school has maintained AACSB accreditation since 1934. BU-ACFM-MS Additional Program Information School/College Site Go back to AcademicsMore in Accounting and Financial Management MS Admissions Careers & Opportunities Required Courses Research & Facilities Scholarships & Financial Aid Apply Request More Info Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Calendar Policies Social Media TUportal TUmail Accessibility Careers at Temple Safety & Emergency Information Ethics & Compliance Privacy Statement Professional Licensure Disclosures Follow Temple University Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community. Apply Request More Info