Skip to main content The University of Texas at Austin Menu Header Helpful Links Current Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Families & Visitors Search Search Maps Directory UT Direct Give Apply Search Search About Academics Academic Experience Areas of Study Extended Campus Cockrell School of Engineering College of Education College of Fine Arts College of Liberal Arts College of Natural Sciences College of Pharmacy Dell Medical School Graduate School Jackson School of Geosciences LBJ School of Public Affairs McCombs School of Business Moody College of Communication School of Architecture School of Information School of Law School of Nursing Steve Hicks School of Social Work School of Undergraduate Studies Admissions & Aid Be a Longhorn What Starts Here Changes the World. It's more than a motto. It’s what we prove each and every day, as Texas and its Exes advance discovery and innovation on a global stage. Join us. Undergraduate Admissions Graduate Admissions School of Law Admissions Dell Medical School Admissions Tuition & Costs Financial Aid Campus Visits Campus & Community Explore Your Passions Thousands of events, from concerts and film screenings to readings and lectures. More than 1,100 student organizations. Incredible facilities and special attractions. And it's all set in the heart of one of the world's greatest cities. Welcome home. Arts & Culture Campus Destinations Entrepreneurship & Innovation Health & Wellness Housing & Dining Life in Austin Report Misconduct Safety & Security Student Involvement Longhorn Resources Research Change the World Longhorns are passionate about making the world a better place, united by the belief that creating and sharing knowledge can save lives and transform society. Come explore our vast research enterprise — or better yet, create, innovate and discover with us. Overview Student Research Units & Centers Off-Campus Research Sites Libraries Experts Guide Athletics News Home UT Austin Military and Veteran Connections UT Austin Military and Veteran Connections UT Austin is a world class partner and destination for our military, veterans and their families The university’s official motto is “disciplina praesidium civitatis,” which translates to “the cultivated mind is the guardian of democracy.” From research initiatives and innovative partnerships to growing the economy and encouraging robust debates about hard topics — this is how The University of Texas at Austin cultivates minds and guards democracy. At UT Austin, we like to say, 'What Starts Here Changes the World.' My experiences as a Longhorn AFROTC cadet set me on a unique path and opened a world of opportunities to me. It is my honor to serve our country and help defend democracy and freedom. — Maj. Gen. Jeannie Leavitt, UT ROTC Class of 1990, U.S. Air Force's first female fighter pilot Pictured above from left to right: Jen Lee (2 time gold medalist goalie for the US Paralympic Hockey team, US Army, UT Class of 2018), Sabin Jacob (UT Student Veteran Association President 2018-19), Meghan Bennet (lead for our women veteran program), Sam (A serviced member daughter), Taylor Lujan (UT Student Veteran Association President 2017-18), Rebecca Larson (UT Student Veteran Association President 2019-20) 3 Medal of Honor recipients, 11 astronauts $150M+ in annual DOD research #1 for Student Veterans in Texas (USN&WR) #5 City in US for Veterans: Austin, TX (USN&WR) 48 Top 10 Programs in the US #1 US College Sports Program (2021 Directors Cup) 4 World-Changing UT Austin Veterans UT Austin Hosts 4-stars From Each Service; Showcases Innovative Tech UT Austin Signs Partnership with U.S. Space Force More Military and Veteran Connection Stories Nov. 1, 2021 Defense Research Advancement UT Austin is committed to working with the U.S. military to prioritize research that can be adapted quickly to help protect and defend the nation’s interests. This partnership advances early-stage projects across AI, robotics, navigation, power, energy and novel materials. Contact the Defense Research Advancement to learn more ROTC at UT Austin Naval ROTC Army ROTC Air & Space Force ROTC Naval ROTC Programs at UT Austin UT Austin’s Naval Reserve Officer Training Corps (NROTC) program aims to develop future naval officers morally, mentally and physically. This mission is executed via national scholarship opportunities and courses. Additionally, the program works to prepare individuals for life as a commissioned officer in the Navy or USMC through the Seaman to Admiral 21 (STA-21) program and the Marine Enlisted Commissioning Program (MECEP). The program also welcomes and supports active-duty personnel who relocate to Austin for fellowships, tours with industry programs, and advanced graduate degrees. Learn more about Naval ROTC at UT Army ROTC Programs at UT Austin The Longhorn Battalion Army ROTC is one of the most demanding and successful leadership programs in the country. With the support of the local veteran community and alumni, and the partnerships with local military installations and organizations, UT Austin Army ROTC has been creating leaders who go on to rewarding careers in the military and continue their service to the community. Learn more about Army ROTC at UT Air & Space Force ROTC Programs at UT Austin The mission of the Air Force Reserve Officer Training Corps (AFROTC) Detachment 825 is to develop high-impact officers ready and motivated to lead and serve in our nation’s Air Force and Space Force. Cadets in AFROTC work toward a commission as a second lieutenant in the U.S. Air Force or the U.S. Space Force by perfecting their leadership skills while earning their college degrees. The journey is not easy, but it leads to one of the most rewarding careers in the world. Learn more about Air & Space Force ROTC at UT Naval ROTC Naval ROTC Programs at UT Austin UT Austin’s Naval Reserve Officer Training Corps (NROTC) program aims to develop future naval officers morally, mentally and physically. This mission is executed via national scholarship opportunities and courses. Additionally, the program works to prepare individuals for life as a commissioned officer in the Navy or USMC through the Seaman to Admiral 21 (STA-21) program and the Marine Enlisted Commissioning Program (MECEP). The program also welcomes and supports active-duty personnel who relocate to Austin for fellowships, tours with industry programs, and advanced graduate degrees. Learn more about Naval ROTC at UT Army ROTC Army ROTC Programs at UT Austin The Longhorn Battalion Army ROTC is one of the most demanding and successful leadership programs in the country. With the support of the local veteran community and alumni, and the partnerships with local military installations and organizations, UT Austin Army ROTC has been creating leaders who go on to rewarding careers in the military and continue their service to the community. Learn more about Army ROTC at UT Air & Space Force ROTC Air & Space Force ROTC Programs at UT Austin The mission of the Air Force Reserve Officer Training Corps (AFROTC) Detachment 825 is to develop high-impact officers ready and motivated to lead and serve in our nation’s Air Force and Space Force. Cadets in AFROTC work toward a commission as a second lieutenant in the U.S. Air Force or the U.S. Space Force by perfecting their leadership skills while earning their college degrees. The journey is not easy, but it leads to one of the most rewarding careers in the world. Learn more about Air & Space Force ROTC at UT Veteran and Military Affiliated Services VMAS provides support to all students using federal and state veterans education benefits at The University of Texas at Austin. We teach veterans how to apply for their veteran benefits, share tips on enrollment, provide health care resources, fast-track their professional development, and guide them through the admissions process, scholarships programs, and important campus resources. Learn more about Veteran and Military Affiliated Services The Institute for Military & Veteran Family Wellness The institute seeks to understand the needs of military and veteran spouses, couples and families to design effective supports that address military to civilian transition, improve community connections, support mental health, and promote overall wellness. The institute conducts research, evaluation and delivers programming to community, military and veteran service partners. Learn more about The Institute for Military & Veteran Family Wellness Applied Research Laboratories Applied Research Laboratories, The University of Texas at Austin (ARL:UT) advances the mission of our parent university of education, research, and public service. Through innovative science and applied engineering, ARL:UT makes significant contributions in support of national security and is home to advanced research teams in the areas of acoustics, electromagnetics, and information sciences. ARL:UT actively recruits retired military personnel for student and full-time positions. Learn more about Applied Research Laboratories More Military and Veteran Opportunities Clements Center for National Security "Let us never send the President of the United States to the conference table as the head of the second strongest nation in the world." – Deputy Secretary of Defense Bill Clements, 1973 The William P. Clements, Jr. Center for National Security at The University of Texas at Austin draws on the best insights of diplomatic and military history to train the next generation of national security leaders. Understanding history is essential for wise and effective national security strategy and statecraft. History enables leaders to glean the wisdom of the past without incurring its costs and can provide American leaders with a deeper sense of perspective, an appreciation for patterns of the past, and the wisdom to determine the most effective policies for the future. Learn more about the Clements Center Hacking For Defense (H4D) H4D is an undergraduate course sponsored by the National Security Innovation Network (NSIN), a problem-solving network under the Department of Defense Office of Research and Engineering. In H4D, teams of students apply lean startup principles to validated and curated problems presented by organizations within the US military and intelligence communities. Students work collaboratively with national security professionals to rapidly address the nation’s emerging threats and security challenges. H4D at The University of Texas at Austin leverages relationships with the Defense Innovation Community anchored in downtown Austin, exposing students to the innovation models at Army Futures Command, the Army Applications Laboratory, AFWERX, and Defense Innovation Unit. Learn more about Hacking for Defense (H4D) Military & Veteran Career Engagement Texas Career Engagement (TCE) proudly connects our military partners with students and alumni for skill acquisition and talent pipeline development. TCE is reimagining the way students, alumni, employers, faculty and staff prepare for the future of work together—by engaging around career in a way that is equitable and inclusive. We do this by connecting employers with the diverse talent at UT Austin, and by collaborating with campus partners to ensure that every undergraduate and graduate student – including each veteran student – has equitable access to career education, experiences, and opportunities. Learn more about Texas Career Engagement Strauss Center for International Security and Law The Strauss Center for International Security and Law integrates expertise from across the University of Texas at Austin, as well as from the private and public sectors, in pursuit of practical solutions to emerging international challenges. Towards that end, the Center sponsors a wide array of research programs and educational initiatives which vary from security and technology pursuits, to national security and regional challenges programs, and our broader outreach for students and the public. Learn more about The Strauss Center for International Security and Law US Army War College Fellowship Since 1992, the US Army has partnered with UT in a one-year fellowship for Army officers. Selected senior field-grade officers attend UT in lieu of the Army War College resident program at Carlisle Barracks, Pennsylvania, and receive the award of Military Education Level One—the highest level of formal military education. The program prepares fellows to meet the demands of strategic-level thinking and senior leadership as they guide the Army into the future. Learn more about the US Army War College Fellowship Explore the World of Entrepreneurship at JBTVL Jon Brumley Texas Venture Labs is a campus-wide initiative that transforms graduate students into entrepreneurs and business leaders while helping accelerate market entry and growth for Texas startups. Through experiential learning programs like our TVL Practicum, TVL Accelerator, TVL Startup Fellows and TVL Investment Competition (TVLIC), we have helped hundreds of veterans and active-duty personnel explore entrepreneurship. TVLIC features the James D. Pippin Veteran Award given to the most promising startup pitch from a veteran founder. Learn more about the Jon Brumley Texas Venture Labs Learning Agents Research Group The Learning Agents Research Group pursues AI research to understand how to best create complete intelligent agents. The group's research focuses mainly on machine learning, multiagent systems and robotics. The group believes the most exciting research topics are inspired by challenging real-world problems and that successful research includes precise, novel algorithms and fully implemented and rigorously evaluated applications. The group's application domains include robot soccer, autonomous bidding agents, autonomous vehicles and human-interactive agents. Over the years, much of their research has been supported by the Department of Defense, and they are actively engaged with the Army Futures Command. Learn more about the Learning Agents Research Group Veteran Integration to Academic Leadership - VITAL Program The VITAL program is a U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs program that strives to enhance academic retention and success through on-campus counseling and care coordination. They also help improve understanding of veterans' strengths and challenges through education and training delivered to the campus community along with the local medical center, Veterans Benefits Administration, campus faculty and staff members, and community resources. Learn more about the VITAL Program Dolph Briscoe Center for American History The Military History Institute is an educational outreach and archival program within the Center for American History (CAH) at The University of Texas at Austin. It was spearheaded by WWII historian and scholar Thomas M. Hatfield who was recently welcomed to the Ranger Hall of Fame. The institute collects, preserve and make available documents and material culture evidence of key themes in U.S. history. Researchers, students, and the public use the institute’s collections for a wide range of academic, professional, and personal uses. Learn more about the Dolph Briscoe Center for American History White House Fellowship Founded in 1964, the President’s Commission on White House Fellowships is the nation’s premiere program for leadership and public service. The White House Fellowship offers exceptional Americans first-hand experience working at the highest levels of the federal government. Learn more about the White House Fellowship ATI incubates deep tech companies for the US military The Austin Technology Incubator (ATI) is the deep technology incubator of The University of Texas at Austin. For over 30 years, ATI has used a customized approach to support university and community entrepreneurs addressing the world’s most pressing problems by connecting startups with the expertise and resources they need to successfully commercialize their breakthrough innovations. Learn more about the Austin Technology Incubator Continuing and Professional Education Since 1909, the Extended Campus at UT Austin has empowered personal and professional growth through accessible, open-enrollment educational programs for non-traditional students. Today, the Extended Campus serves as the gateway to the wide variety of continuing and professional education programs taught by top faculty and drawn from colleges and schools across the university. Our programs accept a variety of education benefits funding, including Tuition Assistance (TA), VA education benefits and Military Spouse Career Advancement Accounts (MyCAA). Learn more about the Extended Campus UT Oscar Mike (UTOM) for Military Families The University of Texas at Austin’s Oscar Mike (UTOM) program is a new portfolio of virtual Credentialing Assistance and Military Family Transition Support programs designed to support the U.S. Army Soldier for Life and ETS Sponsorship Programs. Through a partnership between the Office of Continuing Education and the Institute for Military and Veteran Family Wellness, UTOM offers service members and spouses the opportunity to develop and certify professional skills while receiving military transition emotional and social support as they changeover to civilian life. Learn more about UT Oscar Mike Connect with UT Austin Subscribe to our newsletter Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkedIn YouTube Starts With You Footer Helpful Links Access Course Syllabi and Instructor CVs Campus Carry Contact Counseling and Mental Health Diversity and Inclusion Action Plan Diversity, Equity, and Disability Resources ♿ Emergency Information Fraud, Waste, or Abuse Hazing Prevention and Response HEERF/CARES Act Compliance Jobs Online Institutional Resumes Public Forum On Campus Site Policies State of Texas Statewide Search Texas Homeland Security Texas Veterans Portal Title IX Reporting (Sexual Misconduct) UT System Web Accessibility Policy Web Privacy Policy © The University of Texas at Austin 2022