Skip to Main Content Brown University News from Brown Site Navigation Featured Events For Journalists Search Menu Topics Social Sciences Date March 25, 2022 2022-03-25 Media Contact Jill Kimball [email protected] 401-863-5450 All News Share Facebook Twitter Linkedin Email Brown social scientist wins prestigious Bradley Prize The Bradley Foundation’s $250,000 award to Glenn Loury, a professor at Brown, recognizes the scholar’s influential role in promoting viewpoint diversity in academia. PROVIDENCE, R.I. [Brown University] — Glenn Loury, a professor of social sciences, economics and international and public affairs at Brown University, has won the 2022 Bradley Prize, a prestigious award given each year by the Lynde and Harry Bradley Foundation. The $250,000 prize is given to notable leaders whose accomplishments reflect the Bradley Foundation’s mission to restore, strengthen and protect the principles and institutions of American exceptionalism. Past winners include former Florida governor and 2016 presidential candidate Jeb Bush; Bill Kristol, founder and editor of the Weekly Standard; and Hernando de Soto, founder of Peru’s Institute for Liberty and Democracy. Loury is one of just three prize winners this year. The prize selection committee will present Loury with an award at the 18th annual Bradley Prizes ceremony on Tuesday, May 17, at the National Building Museum in Washington, D.C. “I am delighted to have been honored by the Bradley Foundation with one of this year’s Bradley Prizes,” Loury said. “It reflects a welcome recognition of work that I have been doing as a scholar and public intellectual over the past 40 years. I take pride in being included among the many conservative luminaries whose intellectual contributions to the defense of the idea of American exceptionalism have been recognized by the foundation. My plan is to use the cash award to underwrite my continuing efforts to influence the intellectual climate in our country to that same effect.” As a professor within Brown's Department of Economics and Watson Institute for International and Public Affairs, Loury’s scholarship focuses on welfare economics, income distribution, game theory, industrial organization and natural resource economics. He is a prominent social critic and public intellectual, frequently speaking and writing about issues of racial inequality and social policy. Before coming to Brown, Loury taught at Boston, Harvard and Northwestern universities, becoming the first Black tenured professor of economics in Harvard’s history at age 33. He is a fellow of the Econometric Society, the American Academy of Arts and Sciences and the American Economics Association, among other academic and research organizations. He is also a member of the Council on Foreign Relations, a contributing editor at the Boston Review and a former longtime contributor at the New Republic. “Glenn is one of our country’s most influential and highly regarded academic economists, whose work has been extensively published, shared and honored by prominent organizations nationally and abroad,” said Bradley Foundation President Rick Graber. “Glenn also stands out for promoting viewpoint diversity within the academy, challenging the progressive narrative on race and inequality, and vigorously defending America’s founding principles. The Bradley Foundation is proud to honor Glenn for his scholarship and courage of conviction.” Founded in 1985, the Milwaukee-based Bradley Foundation supports organizations that strengthen families and communities, inform and educate citizens, advance economic growth and encourage self-reliance. Its approach to philanthropy is guided by fidelity to the Constitution, commitment to free markets and dedication to the formation of informed, capable and self-governing citizens. Tags Awards and Fellowships Faculty and Staff Related news: Social Sciences Facebook whistleblower kicks off William R. Rhodes ’57 Lecture Series on Ethics of Capitalism April 27, 2022 Frances Haugen told an audience of Brown students, faculty and staff that algorithms governing social media are the root of technology’s challenges — and that social media can be a positive force to keep people connected. Read Article Open details for Facebook whistleblower kicks off William R. Rhodes ’57 Lecture Series on Ethics of Capitalism Social Sciences For vaccine text-message campaigns, Brown researchers confirm success is all about timing April 6, 2022 A new study from researchers at the Policy Lab offers important information on when text-message vaccination campaigns work and when they don’t. Read Article Open details for For vaccine text-message campaigns, Brown researchers confirm success is all about timing Social Sciences Uncovering an epidemic: Student journalists and data scientists chronicle Rhode Island’s opioid crisis March 21, 2022 A team of Brown journalism and computer science students produced a series of stories, some published and broadcast by prominent outlets, providing new insights into the Ocean State’s opioid epidemic and its human toll. Read Article Open details for Uncovering an epidemic: Student journalists and data scientists chronicle Rhode Island’s opioid crisis Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown Social Navigation Facebook Instagram LinkedIn Snapchat Twitter YouTube Social Media Directory © Brown University Brown University For You Current Students Faculty Staff Parents & Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Featured Events For Journalists Topics Arts and Humanities Environment Health and Medicine News and Events Science and Technology Social Sciences Student Life University Initiatives Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation About Events For You Give to Brown All of Brown.edu People News Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Brown social scientist wins prestigious Bradley Prize Open details for Brown social scientist wins prestigious Bradley Prize Bookmark this Page