Skip to content Columbia University Irving Medical Center Find People Events Faculty and Staff Resources Give Now Search About Us About Us Facts and Figures Explore CUIMC Events Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion at CUIMC Community Development and Alumni Explore CUIMC Leadership and Administration A-Z Listing Affiliated Hospitals Campus Map and Directions Campus Resources Contact CUIMC Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion At CUIMC, we are committed to continuous improvement in providing culturally inclusive medical education and clinical care. Learn About Our Commitment Education Education Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons Mailman School of Public Health School of Nursing College of Dental Medicine VP&S Columbia Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons is dedicated to developing the next generation of leaders in medicine Learn About Our Academic Programs Research Research The Louisa Gross Horwitz Prize Columbia Technology Ventures Research Administration Columbia Clinical Innovation Lab Patient Care Patient Care ColumbiaDoctors Children's Health Columbia Primary Care Herbert Irving Comprehensive Cancer Center ColumbiaDoctors Dentistry Digital Health Services at Columbia Find a Doctor Search for a provider by specialty, expertise, location and insurance. Schedule an appointment online. Find a Doctor News News For the Media Share Your News CUIMC Update CUIMC Celebrates Columbia Medicine Read the latest news stories about CUIMC faculty, research, and events Explore Our News COVID-19 Resources for CUIMC COVID-19 Resources for CUIMC COVID-19 Information for Patients COVID-19 Campus Safety for Employees and Students COVID-19 Vaccine Information For CUIMC Employees and Students COVID-19 Information and Resources for Clinical Staff COVID-19 Vaccine Information Learn about COVID-19 vaccine availability and requirements for employees and students at CUIMC Get the Latest Information How to get your baby sleeping through the night  February 4, 2022 Share this page Share on Facebook Tweet Share on Linkedin Share by email Getting a baby on an overnight sleep schedule can seem like an impossible dream. But it can be achieved in three days. And you can start tonight. The only obstacle is you. David Buchholz If your baby is happy, healthy, and thriving—and more than 90% of babies are—your baby can learn to sleep through the night in three days, says pediatrician David Buchholz, MD, senior founding medical director of primary care at Columbia University Irving Medical Center. For optimal health... Everyone over 4 months old should sleep through the night. Infants up to 3 months old should sleep most of the day, for a total of 16 to 20 hours. Yes, sleep training does require listening to some crying. But every day that training is postponed, the more difficult it is to get babies on schedule because of “object permanence.” When babies begin to understand that objects exist even when they cannot be seen or heard, they understand parents may be nearby and test ways to get them back in sight. It’s much easier to teach a baby to sleep through the night before they develop object permanence, says Buchholz. The ideal age is 4 months, when a baby is physically capable of sleeping through the night because they have enough fat stored (i.e., they don’t need to eat) and have not yet developed object permanence, a milestone typically achieved between age 4 and 7 months. Some babies, especially the plushier ones, may be naturally better sleepers and make it through the night without training. Others may regress when object permanence develops and disrupts an overnight habit. So whether your baby has already slept through the night, here’s a guide: Baby Skills: How to Start (or Reinforce) Sleeping Through the Night Criteria: Child must be at least 4 months old Keep baby awake while nursing before bed. Set bedtime (7 or 8 p.m.) and bedtime routine. Put baby in bed awake, on their back, without props (anything they depend on to self-soothe, so they don’t look for it if it falls out of their mouth or crib). Ignore fussing. Leave the room before they fall asleep. Do not go back in. No feeding. Stay out until about 6 a.m. Smile. You survived!   Repeat. The second night will be half as hard as the first. Repeat. You did it! Ignore Fussing or giggles The “I’m bored” cry The “I want you” cry Babies must learn to self-soothe to aid their psychological development. They wake up but will fall back to sleep when they don’t need anything, says Buchholz. If you stay out of the room you reinforce this good, normal behavior. Trust yourself You know your baby’s “Something bad actually happened” cry. Do not go in that room for anything else, not even the “I’m hungry” cry, unless it’s after 5 a.m. (or 10 hours). Your home’s sleep space Space is vital to good sleep. Parents who share a baby’s room or corner because they’re working from home may impede their baby’s good sleep pattern. Schedule accordingly. It may be best to move workspaces during baby’s sleep hours. References More information David Buchholz, MD, is a general pediatrician and the senior founding medical director for primary care at Columbia University Irving Medical Center. He also is assistant professor of pediatrics at Columbia University Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons.  Columbia University Irving Medical Center NewYork-Presbyterian About Us Careers News Education Patient Care Research Resources at CUIMC Columbia University Irving Medical Center 630 West 168th Street New York, NY 10032 United States Follow Us Facebook Twitter YouTube LinkedIn Instagram Back to top