Skip to main content MyUW Calendar Directories Libraries UW Medicine Maps UW News Helpful Links Computing/IT ISC/Workday Husky Card UW Bothell UW Tacoma UW Facebook UW Twitter University of Washington University of Washington Students Parents Faculty & Staff Alumni Quick Links Home About Overview Leadership What is population health? Hans Rosling Center Evaluation Contact us Strategic areas Interdisciplinary collaboration Climate change and its human impacts Humanitarian assistance and disaster relief Violence and injury prevention Social innovation and entrepreneurship COVID-19 COVID-19 Education Undergraduate courses Let’s Talk Pop Health Graduate Certificate in Humanitarian Response Applied Research Fellowship Social Entrepreneurship Fellowship Pop Health Moments Other education and training Resources Population health research at the UW Collaboration support Grant application support Climate change experts Disaster and humanitarian experts Other experts Mobile and digital population health Social innovation and entrepreneurship Funding and awards News Latest news and updates Subscribe Journal articles Media coverage Get involved Give Partner Volunteer Events Population Health Menu Home About Overview Leadership What is population health? Hans Rosling Center Evaluation Contact us Strategic areas Interdisciplinary collaboration Climate change and its human impacts Humanitarian assistance and disaster relief Violence and injury prevention Social innovation and entrepreneurship COVID-19 COVID-19 Education Undergraduate courses Let’s Talk Pop Health Graduate Certificate in Humanitarian Response Applied Research Fellowship Social Entrepreneurship Fellowship Pop Health Moments Other education and training Resources Population health research at the UW Collaboration support Grant application support Climate change experts Disaster and humanitarian experts Other experts Mobile and digital population health Social innovation and entrepreneurship Funding and awards News Latest news and updates Subscribe Journal articles Media coverage Get involved Give Partner Volunteer Events Home Population Health Get involved Volunteer Volunteer Close Menu Home Get involved Give Partner Volunteer Events Opportunities exist across the University of Washington to volunteer to support population health-related projects. For the general public The College of the Environment offers opportunities for members of the public to become citizen scientists. UW researchers are seeking healthy volunteers and participants with specific health conditions for research studies to help answer important questions impacting human health. Harborview Medical Center and the UW Medical Center both offer volunteer opportunities for members of the public. For students The Carlson Leadership & Public Service Center offers public service volunteer opportunities for students. Harborview Medical Center and the UW Medical Center both offer volunteer opportunities for students. The Pipeline Project connects students with educational, service and research opportunities in local and regional K-12 schools. UW researchers are seeking healthy volunteers and participants with specific health conditions for research studies to help answer important questions impacting human health. The Student Health Consortium is a group of students who provide a meaningful resource to health-oriented student groups (RSOs) and to promote student health and wellness on campus through education and advocacy. The Health Equity Circle is an interdisciplinary group of health sciences students who advocate for upstream changes that affect the social determinants of health. UW Tacoma The Center for Service and Leadership offers Husky Volunteers, which is an initiative that encourages and recognizes students’ volunteer service in the community. The Community Economic Development volunteer program at UW Tacoma builds local capacity and helps improve economic opportunity in communities. UW Tacoma students can apply to be mentors for Tacoma area youth through the STEPS program. Home Get involved Give Partner Volunteer Events What is population health? Population health is a broad concept encompassing not only the elimination of diseases and injuries, but also the intersecting and overlapping factors that influence health. Learn more Population Health Twitter Tweets by UW_PHI Please enable JavaScript to view this widget. Events calendar University of Washington Be boundless Connect with us: Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Pinterest Accessibility Contact Us Jobs Campus Safety My UW Rules Docket Privacy Terms Newsletter © 2022 University of Washington | Seattle, WA