By continuing to use this site, you agree to the use of cookies in accordance with our privacy policy. Dismiss Stay Safe The official source of public health information for Syracuse University. Skip to Content Open menu About Admissions Academics Life Athletics More Search the University Open search Popular searches Close menu Home About Toggle dropdown Leadership Vision & Mission Consumer Information Facts & Figures Plan Your Visit Campus Map History News Partnerships Work at Syracuse Social Media Bookstore Brand Help & Contacts Admissions Toggle dropdown Undergraduate Graduate Online Part-Time Cost & Aid Request Information Visit & Tour Apply Academics Toggle dropdown Schools & Colleges Undergraduate Majors & Minors Graduate Degrees Online Programs Syracuse University Global Study Abroad Opportunities & Support Calendars Departments Research Centers & Institutes Libraries, Collections & Galleries Academic Administration Life Toggle dropdown Accessibility & Diversity Campus Highlights Events Calendar Services & Support Meals & Dining Housing Groups & Activities Recreation & Facilities For Students For Veterans & Military For Faculty & Staff For Parents & Families A-Z Index Sitemap Login Athletics Men’s Sports Toggle dropdown Basketball Cross Country Football Lacrosse Rowing Soccer Track and Field Women’s Sports Toggle dropdown Basketball Cross Country Field Hockey Ice Hockey Lacrosse Rowing Soccer Softball Tennis Track and Field Volleyball Athletics Dept. Toggle dropdown Facilities Staff Directory Academic Honors Community Service Spirit Program Varsity Club Sports Medicine Championships Fan Zone Toggle dropdown Dome Schedule Seating Information Orange All Access Otto’s Kids Club Game Photos Promotions Orange Club Schedules News Alumni About Toggle dropdown Notable Alumni Alumni Association Awards News Events and Clubs Toggle dropdown Orange Central Northeast Midwest South West World/Affinity Regions Toggle dropdown Atlanta Boston Chicago Los Angeles Middle East New York San Francisco Washington, DC Services Toggle dropdown Career Network Generation Orange Directory Profile Class Notes Giving Contact Contact Visit Apply Coronavirus Updates Forever Orange Home Academics Syracuse Abroad Affording Study Abroad More from this Section Semester Programs Why Syracuse Abroad? Contact Us or Request More Information Program Selector Tool FAQs Information for Accepted Students Requirements and Deadlines Short-Term Programs: Summer and Academic Breaks Can I Afford to Study Abroad? Syracuse University is committed to making the Syracuse Abroad experience possible for all students. Your financial aid package may apply to Syracuse Abroad, and there are a host of other assistance options, including named scholarships, grants and awards. Skip to: Cost and Aid by Program Financial Aid, Grants and Scholarships Payment Plans and Information Other Expenses Cost and Aid by Program Semester Programs Fees and estimated living expenses vary by program and location. Florence, Italy London, England Madrid, Spain Santiago, Chile Strasbourg, France Central Europe World Partner Affiliated Programs Students studying abroad with a World Partner Affiliated Program pay the standard Syracuse University semester tuition plus a program fee. Program fees and estimated out-of-pocket expenses vary widely by program. Short-Term Programs: Academic Breaks Students studying abroad for a short-term program pay no additional tuition charge for the overseas program, as long as they have not exceeded the 19-credit limit for the semester. A program fee is charged to cover the cost of round-trip transportation, accommodations, group meals, ground transportation, and other activities and services for which a separate fee is not charged. Fees vary by program and are listed on the individual program pages. Short-Term Programs: Summer Syracuse Abroad summer program students pay University tuition and a program fee. Program fees usually cover the cost of housing, ground transportation, group meals, and other activities and services for which a separate fee is not charged. Meals, personal transportation and activities not related to the program are the responsibility of the student. Fees vary by program and are listed on the individual program pages. Financial Aid, Grants and Scholarships Syracuse University has generous financial aid policies. For Syracuse University students, Syracuse Abroad works with the Office of Financial Aid and Scholarship Programs . There are need-based grants and named scholarships available for Syracuse students. Visiting students should check with their home study abroad offices for institutional grants that apply. All students should visit the Grants and Aid section of our website for more information. Syracuse Abroad also maintains an extensive list of outside scholarships available to its students. Payment Plans and Information Spring and fall participants have the option to apply for a monthly payment plan . Advance payment is required to secure your place in the program (visiting, short-term and summer students only). Advance deposits are deferred for eligible semester students enrolled in select schools . Other Expenses Your Syracuse Abroad advisor can help you understand other expenses to consider while planning for your adventure. The expenses not covered by your tuition and program fee could include groceries, personal items, transportation (such as local bus or taxi fare or transportation to and from another destination during your time abroad) and other living and entertainment expenses. If you are a Syracuse University student, you can contact the Office of Financial Literacy for help planning expenses while studying abroad. Connect with Syracuse Abroad through general advising sessions or program appointments. Drop-in or schedule a virtual or in-person advising session at SyracuseAbroad@Bird Monday-Friday from 11 a.m. to 5 p.m. Or, schedule an appointment to meet with a Syracuse Abroad program advisor. View all advising options View all advising options. Popular Toggle dropdown Academic Calendar Campus Map Careers Libraries Majors and Minors Visit and Tour A-Z Toggle dropdown Academic Departments Schools and Colleges Sitemap Search Contact Toggle dropdown Admissions Financial Aid Emergency Contacts Human Resources Make a Gift Login Toggle dropdown MySlice Blackboard SUMail Syracuse University 900 South Crouse Ave. Syracuse, NY 13244 Phone: +1.315.443.1870 Follow S.U. on Instagram Like S.U. on Facebook Follow S.U. on Twitter Follow S.U. on LinkedIn Follow S.U. on Tiktok Subscribe to S.U. on YouTube © Syracuse University. Knowledge crowns those who seek her. Accessibility Accreditation Emergencies Privacy