Skip to main content Toggle Tools navigation Toggle Site Navigation Toggle Search University of Cincinnati UC Home Visit UC Support UC Directories UC Tools Canopy & Blackboard Catalyst OneStop Student Email Faculty / Staff Email Shuttle Tracker UCFileSpace UC Flex/ESS IT Help UC VPN Concur Success Factors Enter a search term to search UC pages or the directory. Search String University of Cincinnati About Contact Us Policies Procedures Standards Guidelines Awareness How to Manage Your Social Media Privacy Settings National Cybersecurity Awareness Month End Of Support (EOS) Online Meetings Services Two-Factor Authentication Risk Management Shredding Security Certificates Information Security Review McAfee ePolicy Orchestrator (ePO) Encryption Account & Password Help Notifications of Expiration Password Help (PSS) Setup New Accounts How to Choose a Password Compliance & Law Copyright Infringement Two-Factor Authentication Risk Management Shredding Security Certificates Information Security Review McAfee ePolicy Orchestrator (ePO) Encryption About Policies Awareness Services Two-Factor Authentication Risk Management Shredding Security Certificates Information Security Review McAfee ePolicy Orchestrator (ePO) Encryption Account & Password Help Compliance & Law Copyright Infringement Two-Factor Authentication Free Antivirus Report an Incident Contact Us UCIT Homepage Information Security Review Facebook Twitter Encryption Why Encrypt? Encryption helps protect data on tablets, laptops, and desktop PCs to prevent the loss of university data, especially from lost or stolen equipment. It is designed to make all data on a system drive unintelligible to unauthorized persons, which in turn helps meet compliance requirements. Encryption Services Email Encryption Email encryption is a secure method of transmitting information so only the intended recipient can read the contents of an encrypted email. This helps to ensure the confidentiality of the email and protects information from being stolen or accidentally accessed by unintended recipients. Please visit the the UCIT KB article for the most up to date email encrytion information. https://ituc.service-now.com/kb?id=kb_article_view&sysparm_article=KB0010827 Drive Encryption Full disk encryption encrypts all data on a system, including files, folders and the operating system. This is most appropriate when the physical security of the system is not assured. Examples include traveling laptops or desktops that are not in a physically secured area. Apple and Microsoft offer built-in encryption software designed to make data on a system drive unintelligible to unauthorized persons. Apple FileVault comes standard with Mac OS X and Microsoft BitLocker is included with business versions of Windows. McAfee provides Management of Native Encryption, a software component available in several data and endpoint protection suites, to manage any combination of FileVault- and BitLocker-enabled endpoints through the McAfee ePolicy Orchestrator (McAfee ePO) management console. Contact Information Security at infosec@uc.uc.edu for more informaiton or to install encyrption on a university owned machine. File and Removable Media Encryption File and removable media protection is encryption software that helps protect data stored on file shares, removable media, and cloud storage services such as Box, Dropbox, Google Drive, and Microsoft OneDrive. It uses policy-enforced, transparent encryption to prevent unauthorized access to your information across removable media, network servers, and computer hard drives. The software is available for Microsoft Windows tablets, laptops, desktop PCs and workstations, and Mac OS X endpoints. University of Cincinnati IT@UC Office of Information Security University Hall 51 Goodman Drive Cincinnati, OH 45221 Phone: 513-558-ISEC (4732) E-mail: infosec@uc.edu Notice of Non-Discrimination Alerts Clery and HEOA Notice Notice of Non-Discrimination eAccessibility Concern Privacy Statement Copyright Information © 2018 University of Cincinnati This website offers many PDF files for download, which require Adobe Reader to view.