Skip to main content Navigation Academics Admissions Research Locations Student Life Alumni & Giving Athletics Apply Now Statistics and Data Science (MS) Request Info Program at a Glance Program Master College(s) College of Sciences Department(s) Statistics and Data Science In State Tuition Out of State Tuition $369.65 per credit hour $1,194.05 per credit hour Learn more about program tuition and fees. The Master of Science in Statistics and Data Science provides a sound foundation in statistical theory, statistical methods, numerical methods in statistics, and the application of computer methodology to statistical analyses. The MS is particularly suited for individuals who have completed an undergraduate program in mathematics, statistics, or computer science, but is also available to those from other disciplines who wish to develop an expertise in statistics and data science. The Statistics and Data Science MS program requires a minimum of 36 credit hours beyond the bachelor's degree. The degree in Statistics and Data Science includes 21 credit hours of required courses, 15 credit hours of restricted electives, and passing a comprehensive examination. Total Credit Hours Required: 36 Credit Hours Minimum beyond the Bachelor's Degree Request Information View Full Description Program Tracks/Options Data Science Track Application Deadlines Domestic International Spring December 1 Summer April 1 Fall July 1 Fall January 15 Ready to get started? Apply Today Career Opportunities UCF prepares you for life beyond the classroom. Here, you’ll experience a wide range of opportunity, like learning diverse skills from world-renowned faculty to networking with top employers across Central Florida to gaining first-hand experience in internships nearby. Achieve your degree and more as a Knight. Actuarial Associate Actuarial Science Professor Agricultural Research Director Applied Statistician Biometrician Biostatistics Professor Environmental Statistician Geochemical Manager Geometry Professor Geophysical Manager Mathematical Statistician Mathematics Professor Ocean Program Administrator Pollster Research Biostatistician Sampling Expert Statistics Professor Survey Methodologist Survey Researcher Topology Professor Show More Career Opportunities Degree Search College of Sciences programs Masters Statistics and Data Science (MS) University of Central Florida Colleges Burnett Honors Arts and Humanities Business Community Innovation and Education Engineering and Computer Science Graduate Studies Health Professions and Sciences Medicine Nursing Optics and Photonics Undergraduate Studies Hospitality Management Request Information × Enter your information below to receive more information about the Statistics and Data Science (MS) program offered at UCF. Loading... × The Master of Science in Statistics and Data Science provides a sound foundation in statistical theory, statistical methods, numerical methods in statistics, and the application of computer methodology to statistical analyses. The MS is particularly suited for individuals who have completed an undergraduate program in mathematics, statistics, or computer science, but is also available to those from other disciplines who wish to develop an expertise in statistics and data science. The Statistics and Data Science MS program requires a minimum of 36 credit hours beyond the bachelor's degree. The degree in Statistics and Data Science includes 21 credit hours of required courses, 15 credit hours of restricted electives, and passing a comprehensive examination. Total Credit Hours Required: 36 Credit Hours Minimum beyond the Bachelor's Degree Program Prerequisites Students must have the following background and courses completed before applying to the Statistics & Data Science MS program. These courses are: MAC 2311C: Calculus with Analytic Geometry I, MAC 2312: Calculus with Analytic Geometry II, MAC 2313: Calculus with Analytic Geometry III, MAS 3105: Matrix and Linear Algebra or MAS 3106: Linear Algebra. These pre-required courses are basic undergraduate courses from the Math department. Degree Requirements Required Courses 21 Total Credits Complete all of the following Complete the following: STA5205 - Experimental Design (3) STA6106 - Statistical Computing I (3) STA6236 - Regression Analysis (3) STA6326 - Theoretical Statistics I (3) STA6327 - Theoretical Statistics II (3) STA6329 - Statistical Applications of Matrix Algebra (3) Note: STA 6106 provides an independent learning experience for the program. It requires a research project that results in a written report or oral presentation. Complete at least 1 of the following: STA6246 - Linear Models (3) STA6707 - Multivariate Statistical Methods (3) Elective Courses 15 Total Credits Earn at least 15 credits from the following types of courses: Elective statistics courses will be selected by the student in consultation with the adviser. Certain graduate courses in computer science, mathematics, and engineering may also be selected if approved by the graduate program director. A listing and description of graduate courses offered by the Department of Statistics and Data Science is found in the "Courses" section. Independent Learning 0 Total Credits STA 6106 provides the independent learning experience for the program. It requires a research project that results in a written report or oral presentation. Grand Total Credits: 36 Application Requirements For information on general UCF graduate admissions requirements that apply to all prospective students, please visit the Admissions section of the Graduate Catalog. Applicants must apply online. All requested materials must be submitted by the established deadline. In addition to the general UCF graduate admission requirements, applicants to this program must provide: One official transcript (in a sealed envelope) from each college/university attended. Official, competitive GRE or GMAT score taken within the last five years. Résumé. 3 Letters of Recommendation Applicants not qualified for regular graduate status may be initially admitted to the university in non-degree-seeking status and later admitted to regular status once all deficiencies have been eliminated, although only nine hours of graduate course work taken as a non-degree-seeking student can count toward a graduate degree. Meeting minimum UCF admission criteria does not guarantee program admission. Final admission is based on evaluation of the applicant's abilities, past performance, recommendations, match of this program and faculty expertise to the applicant's career/academic goals, and the applicant's potential for completing the degree. Application Deadlines Statistics and Data Science MS *Fall Priority Fall Spring Summer Domestic Applicants Jan 15 Jul 1 Dec 1 Apr 1 International Applicants Jan 15 Jan 15 *Applicants who plan to enroll full time in a degree program and who wish to be considered for university fellowships or assistantships should apply by the Fall Priority date. Financial Information Graduate students may receive financial assistance through fellowships, assistantships, tuition support, or loans. For more information, see the College of Graduate Studies Funding website, which describes the types of financial assistance available at UCF and provides general guidance in planning your graduate finances. The Financial Information section of the Graduate Catalog is another key resource. Fellowship Information Fellowships are awarded based on academic merit to highly qualified students. They are paid to students through the Office of Student Financial Assistance, based on instructions provided by the College of Graduate Studies. Fellowships are given to support a student's graduate study and do not have a work obligation. For more information, see UCF Graduate Fellowships, which includes descriptions of university fellowships and what you should do to be considered for a fellowship. University of Central Florida About UCF Contact Us Faculty Online Degrees Policies Privacy Notice Public Records Regulations Report a Concern UCF News 4000 Central Florida Blvd. Orlando, Florida, 32816 | 407.823.2000 © University of Central Florida