COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW Research Centers at WSU Section Menu About the Office of Research Staff Contacts Office of Research Home Applied Psychology Research Institute Overview: The Applied Psychology Research Institute (APRI) is established to perform funded research associated with the Wichita State University Department of Psychology. The mission of the Research Institute is to advance the applied research and educational objectives of WSU faculty by encouraging, promoting, and supporting research. It supports the pursuit and management of externally funded projects while also connecting researchers with potential sponsors from various funding agencies. The Research Institute also connects graduate students with researchers to provide them with an applied learning experience built to develop knowledge, skills, and values beyond traditional classroom lectures. APRI researchers have a diverse array of sponsored research from various funding agencies. All human subjects research conducted at the Research Institute is reviewed by WSU’s Institutional Review Board (IRB) to assure the rights and welfare of subjects are protected and that the University is in compliance with federal requirements (Title 45 Code of Federal Regulations, Part 46). Current areas of emphasis include: Transportation Training and Performance User Experience (UX) Aerospace/Military Community Research, Intervention, and Action Contact: Dr. Carryl L. Baldwin Jabara Hall, Room 421 Email Website Center for Economic Development and Business Research Overview: The mission of the Center for Economic Development and Business Research (CEDBR) is to enhance the region's economic growth and development by: collecting, analyzing and disseminating business, economic and demographic information conducting applied business, economic and demographic research serving as a vital link between the business and economic development community, Wichita State University and the W. Frank Barton School of Business. The CEDBR strives to be recognized by the business and economic development community as: a reliable and responsive source for business, economic and demographic information, and as an essential partner in the region's economic development process by conducting high-quality, objective research on issues related to the community's current and future economic well-being. Contact: Jeremy Hill, Director Grace Wilkie Hall, Room 223 (316) 978-5184 Email Website Lab Information Sheet Center for Energy Studies Overview: Center for Energy Studies (CES) was established in the 1970s as the WSU Wind Energy Lab. This is one of the thirteen university members of the Power Systems Engineering Research Center (PSERC). CES continues excellence in the energy and electric power industry research and advanced power system education. CES has always been involving to find innovative and efficient solutions to the problems in the area of power system, power quality, various energy technologies and communication & control system. Website Center for Physical Activity and Aging Overview: The purpose of the Center for Physical Activity and Aging (CPAA) is to examine the interrelationships between exercise and aging via research, education, and service. The CPAA then integrates these findings into practical forms of physical activity and multidimensional strategies that allow older adults to maintain or improve their quality of life. The CPAA offers a variety of activity classes and fitness testing (such as bone density testing) for older adults in the community. These services assist seniors in maintaining a high quality of life. Furthermore, the CPAA members serve as a "living laboratory" that allow for investigation of the relationship between physical activity and aging. Website Center for Real Estate Overview: The real estate program at Wichita State was founded in the late 1970s, making it one of the oldest real estate programs in the country. Since its inception, the program has strived to maintain close connections with real estate professionals throughout the region. In 2000, the Center for Real Estate was established to help deepen the connections between the professional real estate community and the academic programs at Wichita State University. Housed within the W. Frank Barton School of Business, the Center for Real Estate engages in a variety of research, community networking, and student support activities to achieve this goal. Contact: Dr. Stanley D. Longhofer, Director (316) 978-7163 Email Website Center for Women's Studies Overview: The Center for Women's Studies at Wichita State University offers the major and minor in women's studies through courses and curriculum. It is a campus resource / research center for scholarship concerning women. Unique in Kansas, the Center for Women's Studies at Wichita State is one of the longest-standing, degree-granting, and autonomous women's studies centers in the country. Website Community Engagement Institute Overview: The goal of the institute is to promote best practices in organizations and communities interested in improving people’s lives, as well as fostering connections with community partners looking to create positive change. Contact: Scott Wituk, Executive Director (316) 978-3843 Email Website Ennovar, Institute of Emerging Technologies and Market Solutions Overview: Ennovar at Wichita State University emphasizes education, emerging technology, experiential learning, evolutionary research, exploration and engagement. Ennovar is a derivative of the Spanish word “innovar,” which means, “to innovate.” Ennovar is adding jobs and growing the economy -- fulfilling WSU’s strategic plan -- and paving the way for additional organizations on campus that make the Innovation University concept real -- right now. Contact: Matt Forney, Executive Director Email Website Environmental Finance Center Overview: The WSU Environmental Finance Center (EFC), housed within the Hugo Wall School of Public Affairs, is one of 10 university-based centers across the country that provides communities with professional training, technical assistance and applied research to equip officials in making sound financial and environmental decisions. By sharing tools, technologies and resources offered by a network of collaborators, the Wichita State University Environmental Finance Center helps communities meet environmental and financial needs while increasing quality of life and financial sustainability. Contact: Lindquist Hall, 2nd Floor (316) 978-7240 Email Website GoCreate Overview: You can dream anywhere. When you’re ready to do, you’re going to need tools and technology and know-how. You’ll find all of that in our makerspace studios. They’re equipped with high-tech tools like 3D printers and laser cutters, CNC and EDM machines, and good old fashioned machine shop tools and equipment like sheet metal machines, lathes and saws. Or maybe you just need a screwdriver. We’ve got those, too. Contact: Wichita State University John Bardo Center (316) 978-2738 Email Website National Institute for Aviation Research Overview: Your designs need validation. That’s where we come in. Whether it’s a material, component, system or full airframe; we’ll push it, pull it, heat it, freeze it, zap it and take it to its limits. We work with certification agencies to prove compliance and help when design issues arise. Our experience with countless unique projects brings in a fresh perspective, and our capabilities, technology, and expertise are unlike that of any other test lab. Bring us your test plans – you’ll get results. Centers Contact: Dr. John S. Tomblin Ph.D., Executive Director National Institute for Aviation Research (NIAR) (316) 978-6427 Email Website Public Policy and Management Center Overview: The Public Policy and Management Center (PPMC) at Wichita State University advances public good by strengthening people, organizations and communities. The PPMC provides expertise and support in the following areas: Research and Program Evaluation Talent Development and Professional Services Community Engagement Contact: Misty Bruckner, Director Lindquist Hall, 3rd Floor (316) 978-6527 Email Website Regional Institute on Aging Overview: WSU has a rich history of research and service in the field of aging involving multiple academic departments and colleges. In 2003-04, a group of scholars and partners from the community explored the desirability of folding the activities into a more formal framework that would expand, coordinate, and further develop these activities. Dr.James Rhatigan led this initiative, in partnership with Drs. Philip Gaunt and Charles Fox. Faculty members involved in the early discussions of an institute on aging at WSU included: Drs. Mary Corrigan, Louis Medvene, Michael Jorgensen, Steven Peters, Ruth Bohlken, Alex Chaparro, Michael Rogers, Matthew Shepherd, Ray Hull, Barbara Chaparro, and Laszlo Stumpfhauser. Contact: Dr. Carryl L. Baldwin, Director (316) 978-3058 Email Website T3 Overview: We are a group of professionals who are dedicated to deliver the best solutions and results to our customers. Each team member possesses unique skills and talents and when they’re combined we produce dynamic results! Each project is a collaboration and integrates project management process phases that have proven to be effective and efficient. We have a strong history of providing applied learning opportunities for students; having provided work experience on real-world projects to more than 100 students since 1998. The entire T3 staff is comprised of 100% Shockers: either currently enrolled or WSU alumni. Go Shox! Contact: (316) 978-5398 Email Website WSU Strategic Initiatives Overview: WSU Strategic Initiatives enables market-driven technology development, demonstration, and deployment by providing unparalleled access to WSU facilities, faculty, and students as problem solvers for business/industry, innovators, and students to evaluate and explore new technology customization and adoption/implementation. Contact: Debra Franklin, AVP Phone: 316-978-5363 Email Website 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©