Skip to main content Skip to main content Follow Us Follow Us LinkedIn Follow Us Facebook Follow Us Instagram Follow Us Twitter Skip to main content Log In Log In Student Login Log In Instructor Login Log In Canvas Login Canvas Login My Profile My Applications My Enrollment History My Certificate Plan My Account My Saved Items Log Off Contact Us Contact Us Help Help <span class="sr-only">Number of items in the shopping cart: </span><span id="cartCount"></span> Number of items in the shopping cart: Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. Program Search Programs and Courses Areas of Study Career Building College Prep Communications & Marketing Creative Development Design & UX Engineering & Technology Humanities & Fine Arts Languages Legal & Finance Management & Leadership Program Types Certificate Programs Short Courses Corporate Programs & Customized Learning Instructors Resources for Current Instructors Instructor Portal Canvas for CAPE Instructors Become a CAPE Instructor Propose a Course Help Center New Students Payment Options & Financing Veterans Benefits FAQ Current Students Student Portal Canvas Zoom Instructors Instructor Portal Canvas for Instructors Policies & Procedures Parking & Maps About About Us Contact Us Blog Navigate Search Skip to main content CAPE Program Search All Programs & Courses All Programs & Courses Areas of Study Certificate Programs SMU College Prep Customized Learning Short Courses Areas of Study Areas of Study Career Building Communications and Marketing Creative Development Design and UX Engineering and Technology Humanities and Fine Arts Languages Legal and Finance Management and Leadership Courses Instructors Instructors Propose a Course Help Center Help Center Canvas for CAPE Courses Information about SMU NetIDs Frequently Asked Questions Instructor Portal Parking & Maps Payment Options and Financing Policies and Procedures Student Portal Digital Badges Adding Your SMU Certificate Credential to LinkedIn Veterans Zoom About SMU CAPE About SMU CAPE Contact Us ☰ The World Needs Learners Whether you're looking to jumpstart your career, gain new skills, or spark your creativity, SMU Continuing and Professional Education (CAPE) can help you achieve your goals. Continuing and Professional Education at SMU Are you ready to up your game, sharpen your skills, and expand your possibilities? SMU CAPE offers engaging learning opportunities for all types of learners. Short courses, certificates and customized programs taught by world-class instructors will give you the knowledge and skills to transform your world! SMU Continuing and Professional Education (CAPE) is a division of Southern Methodist University, the nationally ranked, globally recognized comprehensive research university in metropolitan Dallas. Programs Our noncredit programs enhance your life and help you reach your academic or career goals. Take advantage of flexible class schedules and online options to maximize your learning. Find a program or course that fits your interests and needs. Professional Certificates Knowledge and skills to advance your career. Explore Short Courses Quick classes with big impact. Explore Summer College Prep Workshops Enroll now for summer! Explore Customized Learning Training programs to support your organization. Explore Search All Courses Areas of Study Career Building College Prep Communications and Marketing Creative Development Design and UX Engineering and Technology Humanities and Fine Arts Languages Legal and Finance Management and Leadership Why Study at SMU? Expert Instructors Distinguished faculty and experienced practitioners guide you through the learning process, facilitating meaningful and interactive experiences either on campus or online. World-class Education Our continuing and professional programs and courses are rooted in the world-class reputation of SMU. Industry Ties Professional and continuing education students tap into SMU’s deep ties to industries based in Dallas’ thriving economy, throughout the U.S. and internationally. Prepare for Success Students with an SMU education are well prepared to impress, earn respect and succeed in their careers. Search All Courses Current Students Canvas Parking Student Portal Zoom Prospective Students Download Brochure Frequently Asked Questions Payment Options and Financing Veterans Benefits Contact Us Maps and Directions Legal Disclosures © Southern Methodist University 5539 SMU Blvd, Dallas, TX 75206 instagram twitter linkedin facebook