Skip to main content Georgia Tech Home Campus Map Directory Offices Facebook Flickr LinkedIn Pinterest RSS Twitter YouTube Georgia Tech Home Campus Map Directory Offices Facebook Flickr LinkedIn Pinterest RSS Twitter YouTube Campus Calendar Menu Day Week Month Filters Today is June 01, 2022 Institute Holidays Academic Calendar Religious & National Observances Submit Your Event Georgia Tech Login Required Get Events June S M T W T F S 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 Search form Search Categories Arts and Performance Career/Professional development Conference/Symposium Other/Miscellaneous Seminar/Lecture/Colloquium Special event Sports/Athletics Student sponsored Training/Workshop Current campus guidelines for any gathering other than academic classes, professional education programs (GTPE), or department meetings are available at specialevents.gatech.edu/campus-events-guidelines. Tuesday, May 31 2022 7:30pm - 8:30pm Virtual Free For more information: Anna Doll anna.doll@rbi.gatech.edu 404-894-7840 Add To My Calendar Virtual Talk: The endless versatility of Washi Join us for this virtual Lecture, Stitch, dye, sculpt, fly - the endless versatility of Washi, with guest speaker Nanci Jacobi. Washi means Japanese paper - Wa = Japanese and shi = paper. Jacobi’s love of Washi and its history led her to establish the Japanese Paper Place, in Toronto Ontario. The Japanese Paper Place is a major distributor of washi. Jacobi has a vast knowledge of washi, and its use by Western artists. During her lecture she will be imparting her depth of knowledge about heritage and contemporary washi, as well as how artists use it today, including artist Cybèle Young. She will also share about the stunning decorative paper known as Chiyogami, its heritage and use by artists as well. Then there will be a show and tell section where Jacobi will shows examples of various types of washi and the Robert C. Williams Museum of Papermaking will share Chiyogami sample books and washi artifacts from the collection. This program is geared towards adult audiences. Related Links Register here Museum Webpage Click images in enlarge. Arts and Performance Other/Miscellaneous Seminar/Lecture/Colloquium Emergency Information Legal & Privacy Information Human Trafficking Notice Accessibility Accountability Accreditation Employment © Georgia Institute of Technology