Skip to main content Toggle Tools navigation Toggle Site Navigation Toggle Search University of Cincinnati UC Home Visit UC Support UC Directories UC Tools Canopy & Blackboard Catalyst OneStop Student Email Faculty / Staff Email Shuttle Tracker UCFileSpace UC Flex/ESS IT Help UC VPN Concur Success Factors Enter a search term to search UC pages or the directory. Search String University of Cincinnati About Contact Us Policies Procedures Standards Guidelines Awareness How to Manage Your Social Media Privacy Settings National Cybersecurity Awareness Month End Of Support (EOS) Online Meetings Services Two-Factor Authentication Risk Management Shredding Security Certificates Information Security Review McAfee ePolicy Orchestrator (ePO) Encryption Account & Password Help Notifications of Expiration Password Help (PSS) Setup New Accounts How to Choose a Password Compliance & Law Copyright Infringement Two-Factor Authentication Risk Management Controlled Self Assessment Shredding Security Certificates Information Security Review McAfee ePolicy Orchestrator (ePO) Encryption About Policies Awareness Services Two-Factor Authentication Risk Management Controlled Self Assessment Shredding Security Certificates Information Security Review McAfee ePolicy Orchestrator (ePO) Encryption Account & Password Help Compliance & Law Copyright Infringement Two-Factor Authentication Free Antivirus Report an Incident Contact Us UCIT Homepage Information Security Review Facebook Twitter Risk Management Risk Management is a business practice that protects physical, logical and human resources. Risk management is very often applied in banking and finance sectors, but all industries need a "risk management" function. Risks that need to be managed include losses from natural causes such as disasters or fires, accidents, lawsuits, etc. Risk is an issue which could impact your ability to meet your objectives. Do you need the Risk Acceptance Forms? They can be found below. Expand All What is risk? Expand Verb: expose to a chance of loss or damage Noun: a source of danger Noun: a venture undertaken without regard to possible loss or injury Verb: take a risk in the hope of a favorable outcome Expand All Glossary of risk terms Expand Acceptable Risk - A term used to describe the minimum acceptable risk that an organization is willing to take. Countermeasure or Safeguards - Controls, processes, procedures, or security systems that help to mitigate potential risk. Exposure - When an asset is vulnerable to damage or losses from a threat. Exposure Factor - A value calculated by determining the percentage of loss to a specific asset because of a specific threat. Residual Risk - The risk that remains after security controls and security countermeasures have been implemented. Risk Management - The process of reducing risk to assets by identifying and eliminating threats through the deployment of security controls and security countermeasures. Risk Analysis - The process of identifying the severity of potential risks, identifying vulnerabilities, and assigning a priority to each.This may be done in preparation for the implementation of security countermeasures designed to mitigate high-priority risks. Expand All Criticality Matrix Expand Most Critical Highest Level of Sensitivity Critical Moderate level of sensitivity Least Critical Very low, but still requiring some protection Legal Requirements Protection of data is required by law (e.g., HIPAA and FERPA data elements and other personal identifying information protected by law) The institution has a contractual obligation to protect the data (e.g., bibliographic citation data, bulk licensed software) Reputation Risk High Medium Low Other Institutional Risks Information that provides access to resources, physical or virtual Smaller subsets of Most Critical data from a school, large part of a school, or department Data Examples Medical Student Prospective student Personnel Donor or prospect Financial Contracts Physical plant detail Credit card numbers Certain management information Information resources with access to Most Critical data Research detail or results that are not Most Critical Library transactions (e.g., catalog, circulation, acquisitions) Financial transactions that do not include Most Critical data (e.g., telephone billing) Very small subsets of Most Critical data Campus maps Personal directory data (e.g., contact information) E-mail Institutionally published public data Expand All Risk Matrix Expand To determine the degree of urgency attached to a given situation, refer to this table. Expand All Risk Assessment Expand The IT@UC Office of Information Security (OIS) will assist with Risk Assessment upon request. Our Controlled Self-Assessment process will help you understand more about the risk profile of your organization. It helps internal business personnel evaluate informal or subjective controls in 62 important Information Security Areas. Expand All Risk Acceptance Forms Expand Risk Acceptance Policy Please read “RAF Field Descriptions” document for help with completing a RAF form correctly Please send to infosec@uc.edu to review prior to having your leadership sign the form. Risk Acceptance Form (RAF) (PDF) Risk Acceptance Form (RAF) (Word) Risk acceptance forms should be filled out electronically and emailed to the IT@UC Office of Information Security. To view PDF files, you will need Adobe Acrobat Reader, a free download. University of Cincinnati IT@UC Office of Information Security University Hall 51 Goodman Drive Cincinnati, OH 45221 Phone: 513-558-ISEC (4732) E-mail: infosec@uc.edu Notice of Non-Discrimination Alerts Clery and HEOA Notice Notice of Non-Discrimination eAccessibility Concern Privacy Statement Copyright Information © 2018 University of Cincinnati This website offers many PDF files for download, which require Adobe Reader to view.