Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Office of Environmental Health and Safety Programs Training Resources Emergencies SDS Inspection Contact Us Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact Take Action Get trained Report an Incident Know the Plan Contact Us Home Environmental Health and Safety Report an Incident Report an Incident We encourage University employees to report all work-place accidents and near misses. Employees have a legal right to report work-related injuries and illnesses to the University; discharge or other forms of retaliation against an employee for reporting such injuries and illnesses is prohibited by law. Steps to Reporting and Incident What should happen if you are injured on the job? If it is an emergency, And you cannot get to emergency services on your own, call Police Services at 901.678.HELP(4357). They will direct emergency personnel to your location. Seek treatment at the nearest emergency room via ambulance or otherwise. Contact Workplace Injury and First Notice of Loss Call Center at 1.866.245.8588 as soon as possible (you have 3 days from the time of the incident to contact them, but prefer it done within 24 hours). If your supervisor has not already been informed, please notify them Fill out a First Injury report and submit it to both Environmental Health and Safety and Human Resources as soon as possible. In a non-emergency, Contact your supervisor and inform them of the incident Call the Workplace Injury and First Notice of Loss Call Center at 1.866.245.8588. Select option #1 to speak with a registered nurse who will evaluate the nature of your injury and determine your immediate care or treatment options. Your supervisor will only verify that you are reporting a work-related injury to the registered nurse. If no medical treatment is recommended, the registered nurse will document the call for you and your supervisor and enter an incident report in the reporting system. If medical treatment is recommended, the nurse will direct you to the nearest State approved medical provider. Complete the First Report of Injury or Illness form with the assistance of your supervisor. If you have any questions or need to submit this form please contact ehs@memphis.edu and benefits@memphis.edu. In a Near Miss, If you experience or witness an event that could have resulted in an injury or ilness, but did not lead to that point, you are encouraged to report the event. Reporting a near miss helps others learn from your experience, take steps to avoid personal injury, reduce risks to facilites, and participate in overall safety improvement efforts. Please click here to fill out the form. What to do when seeking medical treatment: Upon arrival, you should notify the medical facility personnel that you were injured while on the job. Follow-up doctor and/or specialist appointments must be arranged by CorVel. Do not personally arrange visits or use your personal physician for workplaces injuries or illnesses. Contact CorVel to discuss existing claims at 1.888.226.7835. What to do after seeking medical treatment: It is the employee's responsibility to keep Human Resources notified regarding their work status. All medical documentation must be forwarded and provided to Human Resources only – not to your supervisor. Only Human Resources will store medical records related to an employee on the job injury because the records contain personal information. For Accidents Which Occur After Hours The Workplace Injury and First Notice of Loss Call Center at 1.866.245.8588 operates 24/7. In non-emergency situations, the employee and supervisor should call the Call Center and follow the steps above. Forms First Report of Injury or Illness Student/Visitor Incident/Injury Report a Near Miss Anonymously Report a Safety Hazard Report a Bloodborne Pathogens Incident (PDF) Automobile Accident Reporting Process Workers' Compensation Information Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 4/20/22 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.