Covid-19: Get the latest updates here Apply to JTS Contact Campus Life Alumni Get Email Updates Donate Now Search About Higher Education Emergency Relief Fund Leadership History JTS and Israel Conservative Judaism Offices & Resources Policies Accreditation Visit JTS Admissions List College Admissions Davidson School Admissions Rabbinical School Admissions Gershon Kekst Graduate School Admissions H. L. Miller Cantorial School Admissions Take a Virtual Tour Academics Academics School List College The William Davidson School The Rabbinical School The Gershon Kekst Graduate School H. L. Miller Cantorial School Faculty & Scholars Faculty & Scholars Center & Institutes Center for Pastoral Education Block / Kolker Center for Spiritual Arts The Hendel Center for Ethics and Justice Milstein Center for Interreligious Dialogue Louis Finkelstein Institute for Religious & Social Studies Research Institutes Summer Programs Nishma Summer Sessions Summer Hebrew Language Courses Professional Training Professional Training CONTINUING EDUCATION FOR CLERGY The Rabbinic Training Institute (RTI) Summer Rabbinic Learning Conference Online Learning for Rabbis and Cantors FOR JEWISH EDUCATORS Day School Leadership Training Institute (DSLTI) Jewish Early Childhood Education Leadership Institute (JECELI) Ivriyon: Hebrew Immersion Institute for Day School Educators Jewish Day School Standards and Benchmarks FOR OTHER PROFESSIONALS NAASE Week of Study Community Learning Community Learning ONLINE Live Online Classes JTS Torah Online BEYOND THE CAMPUS JTS Learning in Your Community Courses and Curricula LEARNING EVENTS Public Lectures and Events FOR 8TH-12TH GRADERS Prozdor Teen Learning Library About The Library Letter from the Librarian Library Services The New JTS Library Library Programs and Events Library Online Exhibits Special Collections JTS Library Membership Email a Librarian News & Events News Events Academic Calendar Campus Life Counseling Center Counseling Center When students talk, we listen. Higher education often involves a time of change and personal growth. While college/graduate school is an exciting and positive experience for many people, it is also a time of personal, social, emotional, and academic difficulties. Our Counseling Center team is here to support JTS students. Our diverse team of highly trained licensed psychologists offers a safe, nonjudgmental, and confidential environment where students can explore any issue of concern, including, but not limited to, educational, adjustment, spiritual, relationship, and mental health concerns. No problem is too big or too small. The Counseling Center offers: Consultation Individual Psychotherapy Couples Therapy* ADHD screening Psychiatric referrals *Couples therapy is available only when both couple members are current JTS students. Location Brush 404 Hours 10:00 a.m.-6:30 p.m Monday through Thursday, by appointment. To Make an Appointment Making an appointment is easy. Simply click the button below. Appointments are for JTS students only. Please email us at counseling@jtsa.edu with any questions. Emergencies If you or a friend has a psychological emergency after business hours, on the weekend, or on a holiday, please call Columbia’s on-call clinician at 212-854-2878. In addition, for on-campus residents, Residence Life staff are on call after 9 p.m. on weekdays and weekends. The security officer at the front desk of your residence hall can connect you with the Residence Life staff member on call and the information is also posted on each floor of the residence hall (on the bulletin board). In a life-threatening emergency, call 911. If on campus, call 911 and also notify JTS Security at (212) 678-8888 (x8888 from a JTS phone). You can also go to the nearest emergency room. The one closest to JTS is St. Luke’s-Roosevelt Hospital Center at 113th Street and Amsterdam Avenue. Click for the crisis text-line and suicide prevention hotline. Resources Crisis and Other Support: LIFELINE—A 24/7 crisis and support organization Phone: (800) 273-8255. Online Chat Crisis Text-Line: Text “talk” to 741-741. Columbia’s Nightline Peer Listening, 10 p.m.-3 a.m. (212) 854-7777 The JED Foundation—Their website provides information about suicide prevention as well as resources for a broad range of mental health questions and concerns. The Psychology Externship View the brochure SHARE THIS PAGE Request information about admissions events We'll send details about upcoming events directly to your inbox. First Name(Required) Last Name(Required) Email(Required) School(s) of interest List College The William Davidson School The Rabbinical School Gershon Kekst Graduate School H. L. Miller Cantorial School and College of Jewish Music Potential Enrollment Year Please Select One202120222023202420252026 Comments or Questions RESOURCES Current Students Faculty & Scholars CONNECT WITH US Get Email Updates Visit Give Social Media © The Jewish Theological Seminary All Rights Reserved | בית המדרש ללימודי יהדות 3080 Broadway, New York, NY 10027 Privacy Policy x Share This Page From Name(Required) From Email(Required) To Email(Required) Message