Skip to main content Skip to main content Prospective Students Current Students Alumni More Faculty/Staff News Media Parents Skip to main content Apply Apply Give Give Follow Us Follow Us Twitter Follow Us Facebook Follow Us Instagram Follow Us LinkedIn Follow Us YouTube Follow Us Social Stream Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. Navigate Search Skip to main content Risk Management Emergency Management & Fire Safety Emergency Management & Fire Safety Emergency Management Fire Safety Environmental Health & Safety Environmental Health & Safety Occupational Safety Occupational Health Research & Education Safety Training Services International & Domestic Travel International & Domestic Travel Faculty Staff Travel Health, Safety, & Emergencies International Health & Safety Resources Student Resources Travel to a Restricted Region Risk & Insurance Risk & Insurance Incident Reporting Third Party Event Insurance Information Insurance Programs Protection of Minors Program Strategic Risk Assessment Travel University Driving Programs Resources Resources About Event Safety Topics (A-Z) Training ☰ Office of Risk Management ORM Environmental Health & Safety Training Services Training Services SMU’s Office of Risk Management offers a vast array of training opportunities. While our most common trainings are highlighted below, please feel free to reach out to us for any safety-related training needs that you may have and we can make it happen. Training Calendar and Registration General Research Laboratory Laboratory Safety Training All faculty, staff, students, and visitors that work in SMU research laboratories must take Laboratory Safety Training. This is a 3-hour, in-person training offered by EHS on a monthly basis. It addresses risk assessments and emergency preparedness, chemical hygiene, hazardous waste management, personal protective equipment, and much more. Laboratory Specific Training EHS-provided training courses cover applicable state and federal laws, but ARE NOT a substitute for "in-lab" supervisor-led training. Specific chemical handling, process development, and operating procedural training must be given by the principal investigator and should be documented as part of the departmental personnel files. As part of the specific supervisor-led laboratory training required for all individual working within SMU research laboratories, EHS offers the Laboratory-Specific Training Template to be used as a template for on-boarding your researchers and further training them on various SOPs and equipment. The template can be contracted or expanded as the laboratory supervisor sees fit. Contact your supervisor or Brandon Chance for more information. Laboratory-Specific Training Template Laboratory Supervisor Training This training session is a broad overview of laboratory safety obligations presented to principal investigators and laboratory supervisors that manage laboratories. It is a one-on-one session that serves as an introduction to EHS and provides the opportunity for supervisors to address specific concerns that they have regarding their research interests. Laboratory Supervisor Training is scheduled on an as-needed basis by contacting Brandon Chance. Biological Safety General Biological Safety This 1-hour training is required for all SMU students and employees whose work involves any of the following: Biological agents, including but not limited to, those agents in all risk groups defined in Biosafety in Microbiological and Biomedical Laboratories. Recombinant or Synthetic DNA as defined by the NIH Guidelines for Research Involving Recombinant or Synthetic DNA Molecules. Dual use research of concern as defined by the National Science Advisory Board for Biosecurity. Select agents and select agent toxins, regulated either by the Department of Health and Human Services or by the United States Department of Agriculture. Human blood, human blood components, products made from human blood, and Other Potentially Infectious Materials, as defined by the OSHA Bloodborne Pathogens Standard (29 CFR 1910.1030). This training will address biohazards, bloodborne pathogens, risk groups, risk assessment, biosafety levels, engineering controls, administrative controls, microbiological work practices, personal protective equipment, spill and emergency response, biological waste, decontamination, and more. Current SMU researchers are expected to complete the training as soon as possible. The training can now be completed IN-PERSON or ONLINE. Other Researcher Trainings Animal Worker Training All personnel that conduct SMU-sponsored researched involving animal subjects are required to have training. This training is administered via the CITI Program by the Office of Research Compliance. Please contact Research Compliance for more information. Bloodborne Pathogens Training Any employee or student whose work or education involves reasonably anticipated exposure to human blood or other potentially infectious materials must receive training on the epidemiology, symptoms, and transmission of bloodborne diseases on a yearly basis. This training is available online via the SafetySkills system. Please refer to the Bloodborne Pathogens program page for more information. Laser Safety Training All personnel and students that work with Class 3b and Class 4 lasers are required to have Laser Safety Training. This online training, administered via SafetySkills, addresses laser function and operation, the associated hazards, and the safety measures that must be taken to control those hazards. Machine Shop Training Machine shop training is currently administered by the SMU machine shop supervisors. Please contact your departmental shop supervisor for more information. Radiation Safety Training Radiation safety training is currently administered at a departmental level. Please contact your departmental radiation safety officer (RSO) for more information regarding trainings. Departmental RSOs are: Professor Robert Harrod - Biological Sciences Professor Thomas Coan - Physics Respiratory Protection Training All personnel and students that use a respirator for any reason must enroll in the Respiratory Protection Program. This program can include required annual training, which is administered online via SafetySkills. Please refer to the Respiratory Protection Program page for more information about the program. Art Safety Training All personnel and students that work in SMU's art studios are required to have Art Safety Training. This online training, administered via SafetySkills, addresses the physical and chemical hazards usually associated with arts education. Occupational Safety Training CPR/AED/ First Aid Combines adult CPR, AED, and First Aid training in a program designed for the occupational first aid provider. This comprehensive program will help employees meet OSHA and other federal and state regulatory requirements for training on how to respond and care for medical emergencies. Students who complete this course will receive a certificate for Adult CPR/AED/ First-Aid valid for two years. Contractor Safety Briefing SMU EHS holds a New Contractor Orientation Class for all new contractors working on campus. Classes are held monthly or as needed. The Contractor Orientation discusses expectations, dealing with students, work permits, and a verity of other important topics necessary to safely work on campus. All contractors are required to attend the New Contractor Orientation class. OSHA 10 Hour General Industry OSHA 10 Hours class is an OSHA authorized course that is designed to train workers in the basics of occupational health and safety. The 10-hour OSHA outreach courses introduce employees to the basic practices of identifying, eliminating and reporting hazards associated with their work. After completing the course, each person will receive an OSHA 10 hour card. Fall Protection Anyone working at unprotected heights greater than 4 feet at SMU will need to go through a fall protection class. In the fall protection class, students will learn about fall hazards, protective equipment, and safety mitigation. After completing the class, students will be able to work at heights safely. Confined Space The confined space class teaches students the hazards of working in confined space and permit-required confined spaces. Students will learn safety procedures for entering confined spaces, atmospheric monitoring, ventilation, and how to use personal protective equipment. Lock Out/ Tag Out People who are performing service or maintenance on machinery and equipment may be exposed to injuries from the unexpected energization or release of stored energy in the equipment. The Lock Out –Tag Out class teaches students how to properly perform LOTO and the affective elements of energy control procedures. Environmental Health & Safety Occupational Safety Occupational Health Research & Education Safety Training Services Apply Visit School Cox School of Business Dedman College of Humanities and Sciences Dedman School of Law Lyle School of Engineering Meadows School of the Arts Moody School of Graduate and Advanced Studies Perkins School of Theology Simmons School of Education and Human Development Explore SMU Magazine Academic Calendar Events Calendar Guildhall Continuing and Professional Education Athletics Employment at SMU Campus Reporting a Bias Incident Report Sexual Misconduct Emergency Preparedness Student Life George W. Bush Presidential Center SMU Libraries Meadows Museum Tate Lecture Series Contact Us Maps and Directions Legal Disclosures © Southern Methodist University, PO Box 750100, Dallas, TX 75275 twitter facebook instagram linkedin youtube share