Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Information For Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff Search BC.edu Links Office of Student Services Menu Main Nav Office of Student Services Office of Student Services Academic Calendar Back Back Close About Overview Contact Hours Student Checklists Notices & Disclosures June Checklist Registrar Overview Academic Calendar 2022–2023 Academic Calendar 2023–2024 Academic Calendar Registration Calendar Summer 2022 Registration Spring 2023 Registration Summer 2023 Registration Fall 2023 Registration Course Information & Schedule Course Registration Undergraduate Registration Graduate Registration Summer Registration Cross Registration Final Exam Schedule Course Evaluations Enrollment Certification Transcript Requests Name Change Academic Forms & Diploma Information Financial Aid Overview Undergraduate Financial Aid How Aid Works Applying for Aid Types of Financial Aid Frequently Asked Questions Policies & Eligibility Graduate & Law Financial Aid Applying for Aid Types of Financial Aid After Receiving Your Award Cost of Attendance International Students Frequently Asked Questions Student Financial Wellness Financial Aid Forms Contact Related Links Undergraduate Cost of Attendance Graduate & Law Cost of Attendance Billing & Student Accounts Overview Billing Tuition & Fees Loan Repayment Medical Insurance Eagle One Card MBTA Passes & Parking Permits Student Employment Overview Job Listings 21–22 Academic Year On-Campus 21–22 Academic Year Off-Campus FWS 2022 Summer On-Campus 2022 Summer Off-Campus FWS Finding a Job On Campus Finding a Job Off Campus Earned Sick Time New Hires Frequently Asked Questions Information for Employers Warning: Job Scams & Fraud Higher Education Emergency Relief Fund (HEERF) Close Academic Calendar Directory A to Z Listing Search Student Services Search BC.edu Find pages or people Search Close Close Apply Visit Give Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close Home Registrar Transcript Requests Registrar Academic Calendar Registration Calendar Course Information & Schedule Course Registration Final Exam Schedule Course Evaluations Enrollment Certification Transcript Requests Name Change Academic Forms & Diploma Information Transcript Requests The National Student Clearinghouse (NSCH) is the authorized vendor for delivery of official Boston College transcripts. Transcripts can be ordered to be sent electronically or on paper via regular or express mail. Electronic and paper transcript requests will be processed in 1–3 business days. Historical transcripts (those prior to 2001) may take several additional days for processing. Requests for Federal Express shipping will only expedite the shipping after the processing period. There is a $5 charge per electronic transcript and a $7 charge per paper transcript (all fees are paid directly to National Student Loan Clearinghouse). Additional fees are required for express mail service. Details including payment options are on the Clearinghouse transcript ordering website. Current students should request official transcripts via the transcript request link in the Agora Portal. Alumni requesting official transcripts should log into the National Student Clearinghouse transcript ordering site to submit a request. Unofficial transcripts are only available as hard copy documents. They may only be requested and picked up in person by the record-holder with a valid BC or government ID in the Office of Student Services. Unofficial transcripts cannot be sent by Boston College electronically to the record-holder or any third-party. Please contact the Office Student Services with any additional questions. Students must know their Eagle ID number when requesting transcripts via NSCH. If you do not know your Eagle ID number please contact the Office of Student Services at 617-552-3300 or 800-294-0294 for assistance prior to logging into the NSCH site to make your request. Students who were enrolled at BC prior to the use of Eagle IDs should contact the Office of Student Services at 617-552-3300 or 800-294-0294 to receive their unique identification number. International students should review additional information in the accordion below regarding the social security number (SSN) requirement. Transcript requests will not be honored for any student with an outstanding financial obligation to the University. The same policy applies to any student who does not complete the required loan exit interview. Print Open All Close All Additional Instructions for International Students In addition to Eagle ID number, a student's social security number (SSN) is required as a secondary security measure when requesting transcripts via the NSCH. For international students without SSNs, the Office of Student Services recommends using 999-99-9999 in the SSN field. This is a completely valid option for international students without SSNs looking to proceed with the request of a transcript. Apostilles or Authentication of Documents Some foreign governments and agencies require that diplomas, transcripts, or enrollment verifications be certified with an apostille. An apostille is a document issued by the Massachusetts' Secretary of the Commonwealth that verifies the authenticity of the signature on the document; the capacity in which the person signing the document acted; and the identity of any stamp or seal affixed to the document. The apostille is a specific form of authentication for countries that participate in the Hague Convention of 1961. The Secretary of the Commonwealth's office is the only agency in Massachusetts that is authorized to issue an apostille or certification for a notarized document going to a foreign country. Massachusetts does not certify out-of -state documents. They must be certified by the state of origin. Additional information can be found at http://www.sec.state.ma.us/pre/precom/comidx.htm. Complete the Apostille Request Form. Boston College will notorize the documents as selected and return them to the requestor for further processing for the Apostille. Back To Top Back To Top Office of Student Services Lyons Hall 103 Phone: 617-552-3300 or 800-294-0294 studentservices@bc.edu Facebook Twitter Instagram 140 Commonwealth Avenue Chestnut Hill, MA 02467 Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College