COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW Scholarship Competitions Section Menu Undergraduate Admissions Apply Now Majors Tuition and Fees Visit Campus FAQ Admission Requirements Housing Scholarships Financial Aid Request Information Contact Admissions Scholarship Competitions Application Submit your application by Nov. 1. Apply for DSI and WSU scholarship competitions Are you in the Class of 2022? How does a major scholarship award sound? Wichita State University invites you to participate in our annual scholarship competitions. A variety of scholarships are awarded to competition participants, including three of the largest scholarships in Kansas! See below for information and participation requirements for each competition. Competition applications Submit your application by Nov. 1. (Jabara deadline: Dec. 17) Competitions application Scholarship competitions by major All majors - Distinguished Scholarship Invitational Award amount: Up to $64,000 The Distinguished Scholarship Invitational is one of the area’s most prominent scholarship competitions, including three $64,000 Harry Gore Memorial Scholarships—three of the largest annual undergraduate scholarships in Kansas. Currently, we are planning to host DSI on campus. If plans change due to the evolving nature of COVID-19, we will notify students, parents, and high school counselors. If you have any questions, please contact the Office of Admissions at 316-978-3085 or email us at dsi@wichita.edu. To be eligible to compete, you must: Be a 2022 high school graduate Submit Wichita State application materials by Oct. 15, 2021 Meet one of the following criteria: Have a minimum unweighted 3.5 GPA, or Have a minimum ACT composite score of 27, or Have a minimum SAT composite of 1280, or Rank in the top 10 percent of your class at the end of your junior year Scholarship materials deadline: Nov. 1, 2021 Competition: Nov. 20, 2021 Apply for the Distinguished Scholarship Invitational Learn more about the Distinguished Scholarship Invitational (DSI) In 1952, Theodore and Ralph Gore established the Harry Gore Memorial Scholarship in memory of their father, Harry Gore, a Russian immigrant who placed a high priority on education. This extraordinary scholarship has been awarded annually since 1954 to freshmen entering WSU who display outstanding potential for leadership. It has become one of the most prestigious and coveted awards in the United States and encourages personal growth and involvement in leadership positions. Through the DSI process, three students will ultimately be awarded with $64,000 to attend Wichita State University in the fall. Gore Scholars are highly involved in student activities and are leaders across the Wichita State campus. There is not one type of person who makes a successful Gore Scholar. Each is unique and able to express their opinions through activities they pursue on campus. Application In addition to the group activities, you will submit the scholarship competition application. Take your time on this – it’s the other half of your score in the DSI competition! Some tips as you think about the application: Write your essays in Word and transfer them into the application. Have someone proofread your essays several times. Brag about yourself! If you’re going to brag, a scholarship application is the place to do it. Competition day If you choose to participate, you can expect to take part in the activities below on the day of the competition. These activities make up half of your score for the DSI competition! Consensus-Building In this session, your group will be given a scenario and asked to solve the problem. Observers will be watching how your group interacts with one another. Things to think about: Are you listening to others’ ideas? Are you participating in the discussion? Group Interview In this session, observers will ask each student in your group a question. The questions are opinion-based, so there are no right or wrong answers. Things to think about: Are you answering the question with confidence and showing your personality? Are you making good eye contact? Are you answering in a concise manner? Timeline of events November 2021 – Applications are reviewed and scored. Nov. 20, 2021 – DSI competition held on campus. By Dec. 3, 2021 – Students will receive notification about moving forward as a DSI semifinalist. By Dec. 17 2021 – Semifinalists will receive notification about moving forward as a DSI finalist. Jan. 20, 2022 – DSI finalists will participate in a final interview with the Gore selection committee. Jan. 28, 2022 – Announcement of 2022 Gore Scholars Business majors - Allen, Gibbs and Houlik L.C. Scholarship competition Award amount: Up to $50,000 Eligible students compete for scholarships in various amounts—including the $50,000 Clay Barton Scholarship. To be eligible to compete, you must: Be a 2022 high school graduate Submit Wichita State application materials by Oct. 15, 2021 Declare a business major Meet one of the following criteria: Have a minimum unweighted 3.5 GPA, or Have a minimum ACT composite score of 27, or Have a minimum SAT composite of 1280, or Rank in the top 10 percent of your class at the end of your junior year Scholarship materials deadline: Nov. 1, 2021 Competition: Nov. 19, 2021 Apply for the Allen, Gibbs and Houlik L.C. Scholarship competition Education majors - School of Education Klose Scholars competition Award amount: Up to $20,000 The Doris and Ralph Klose Scholarship competition is available to high school seniors who declare a major in math or science education at WSU. Winners will be offered a financial aid package that includes a combination of scholarships. The Klose Scholarship covers the average cost of tuition, books and fees during junior and senior years at WSU as long as eligibility is maintained. To be eligible to compete, you must: Be a 2022 high school graduate Submit Wichita State application materials by Oct. 15, 2021 Declare a major in math or science teacher education Meet one of the following criteria: Have a minimum unweighted 3.5 GPA, or Have a minimum ACT composite score of 24, or Have a minimum SAT composite score of 1180, or Rank in the top 10 percent of your class at the end of your junior year Scholarship materials deadline: Nov. 1, 2021 Competition interviews: Nov. 19, 2021 Apply for the School of Education Klose Scholars competition Engineering majors - Wallace Invitational for Scholarships in Engineering (WISE) Award amount: 10 awards of $28,500 each Each fall, the Wallace Invitational for Scholarships in Engineering (WISE) awards 10 prospective engineering students scholarships for four years of study. To be eligible to compete, you must: Be a 2022 high school graduate Submit Wichita State application materials by Oct. 15, 2021 Declare an engineering major Meet one of the following criteria: Have a minimum unweighted 3.5 GPA, or Have a minimum ACT composite score of 27, or Have a minimum SAT composite of 1280, or Rank in the top 10 percent of your class at the end of your junior year Scholarship materials deadline: Nov. 1, 2021 Competition: Nov. 19, 2021 Apply for the Wallace Invitational for Scholarships in Engineering (WISE) Entrepreneurship majors - Professor Fran Jabara Endowed Scholarship Award amount: Up to $30,000 Awards two $30,000 scholarships to future entrepreneurs. To be eligible to compete, you must: Be a 2022 high school graduate Submit Wichita State application materials by Dec. 1, 2021 Declare an entrepreneurship major Meet one of the following criteria: Have a minimum unweighted 3.5 GPA, or Have a minimum ACT composite score of 27, or Have a minimum SAT composite of 1280 or Rank in the top 10 percent of your class at the end of your junior year Scholarship materials deadline: Dec. 17, 2021 Committee review and notification of recipients: Spring 2022 Apply for the Professor Fran Jabara Endowed Scholarship First Generation and Immigrant Students - Mark & Stacy Parkinson Scholarship and Passage Scholars Mark and Stacy Parkinson Scholarship Award amount: Up to $34,000 A $8,500 per year scholarship geared toward first generation, immigrant students with preference toward DACA or other undocumented students. To be eligible to compete, you must: Be a 2022 high school graduate Must be a graduate from a Kansas high school Submit WSU admission materials by Oct. 15, 2021 Meet the following criteria: Have a minimum cumulative 3.5 GPA Submit the DSI scholarship application by Nov. 1 Compete in the Distinguished Scholarship Invitational on Nov. 20 Review period and notification of finalists: December 2021 Apply for the Mark and Stacy Parkinson Scholarship Passage Scholars Award amount: $8,000 - $20,000 This special award will be provided to at least 10 first-generation students with financial need who compete in the Distinguished Scholarship Invitational. Awards are dispersed in amounts ranging from $2,000-$5,000 per year. To be eligible, you must: Be a 2022 high school graduate. Submit Wichita State application materials by Oct. 15, 2021 Meet one of the following criteria: Have a minimum unweighted 3.5 GPA, or Have a minimum ACT composite score of 27, or Have a minimum SAT composite of 1280, or Rank in the top 10 percent of your class at the end of your junior year Meet the WSU priority date of Dec. 1 for submission of the 2022-2023 Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA). Students who are ineligible to complete a FAFSA will be contacted to provide a separate statement describing their financial need. Must compete in the Distinguished Scholarship Invitational on Nov. 20 Recipients will be required to participate in the Passage 2 Success Program Scholarship materials deadline: Nov. 1, 2021 Review period and notification of finalists: February 2022 Apply for the Passage Scholars program Select Business and Engineering majors - Cohen Honors College: Koch Scholars Program Koch Scholars Competition Award amount: $30,000-$45,000 High school seniors are invited to compete for one of seven merit-based Honors College Koch Scholars scholarships worth up to $7,500 each year for in-state tuition, fees, room and board or up to $11,250 for out-of-state students. To be eligible to compete, you must: Be a 2022 high school graduate Submit Wichita State application materials by Oct. 15, 2021 Submit the Cohen Honors College online application by Nov. 1, 2021. You will check a box within the application to indicate you would like to be considered for the Koch Scholarship. Declare a business or engineering major. Eligible majors include: accounting, computer engineering, computer science, economics, electrical engineering, finance, management information systems and mechanical engineering. Koch scholarship materials deadline: Nov. 1, 2021 Koch Scholars Competition: Nov. 21, 2021 Apply for the Koch Scholars Program All majors - Cohen Honors College: Lenora Academic McGregor Scholarship Lenora McGregor Endowed Scholarship Award amount: Up to $26,000 Up to $26,000 for up to four years of study to an incoming freshman who has demonstrated academic excellence and intellectual curiosity. To be eligible to compete, you must: Be a 2022 high school graduate Submit Wichita State application materials by Oct. 15, 2021 Submit the Cohen Honors College online application by Nov. 1, 2021. You will check a box within the application to indicate you would like to be considered for the McGregor Scholarship. McGregor scholarship materials deadline: Nov. 1, 2021 McGregor Scholarship interviews: Spring 2022 Apply for the Lenora McGregor Academic Scholarship Art, Music and Performance majors - College of Fine Arts Scholarship Art, Design and Creative Industries The School of Art, Design and Creative Industries awards scholarships to incoming students through an online portfolio review process. Priority deadline: Feb. 20 for the following fall semester. For more information, contact the School of Art, Design and Creative Industries at 316-978-3555. Apply at wichita.edu/artscholarships School of Music The School of Music awards scholarships through audition days in the fall, spring and by appointment. For more information, contact the School of Music at 316-978-6215. Apply at wichita.edu/musicscholarships School of Performing Arts The School of Performing Arts awards scholarships through an audition / portfolio review day in the fall, spring and by appointment. For more information, contact the School of Performing Arts at 316-978-3360. Apply at wichita.edu/paday Additional scholarship opportunities Merit scholarships Just get admitted, and if you're eligible, we'll send your scholarship offer within two weeks. No exhausting forms, no agonizing wait, just the prestige of being named a Shocker scholarship recipient. Merit scholarship opportunities are available for incoming freshmen, transfers, Honors College students, National Merit and Hispanic Recognition finalists. For more information, visit wichita.edu/scholarships. In-state or reduced tuition Students from Colorado, Indiana, Minnesota, Missouri, Nebraska, North Dakota, Ohio, Oklahoma, Texas and Wisconsin may qualify for in-state or reduced tuition. For more information, visit wichita.edu/tuitiondiscounts. More ways to fund your success WSU students have access to millions in college-specific scholarships and other forms of financial aid. File your Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) by WSU's priority deadline of Dec. 1. For more information, visit wichita.edu/financialaid. Have a financial aid or scholarship question? Learn more about scholarship opportunities at WSU. Contact Financial Aid at 316-978-3430. Visit the Financial Aid website 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©