× Home Cores Cell Center Stockroom Cell Center Services Penn Genomic Analysis Core Genetic Diagnostic Laboratory Transgenic and Chimeric Mouse Facility Next Generation Sequencing Core Faculty Education Undergraduate Education Graduate Studies Postdoctoral Programs Post-Baccalaureate Education Genetics Training Grant MD / PHD Programs News Announcements Publications In the News Events Contact Department of Genetics Home Cores Cell Center Stockroom Cell Center Services Penn Genomic Analysis Core Genetic Diagnostic Laboratory Transgenic and Chimeric Mouse Facility Next Generation Sequencing Core Faculty Education Undergraduate Education Graduate Studies Postdoctoral Programs Post-Baccalaureate Education Genetics Training Grant MD / PHD Programs News Announcements Publications In the News Events Contact Transgenic and Chimeric Mouse Facility The Transgenic and Chimeric Mouse Facility provides a centralized service to efficiently produce infection-free transgenic, chimeric, and genome-edited strains of mice. These mice carry randomly inserted transgenes and/or site-specific alterations in the mouse genome of specific interest to Penn researchers. The Facility offers services including DNA pronuclear injection into fertilized oocytes (along with genotyping of transgenic founders), ES cell injection into blastocysts, cytoplasmic/pronuclear injections into fertilized oocytes of CRISPR-Cas9 mix (gRNA, Cas9RNA, ssDNA/dsDNA templates), embryo and sperm cryopreservation, in vitro fertilization, and re-derivation of live and cryopreserved lines. The Core also oversees a cyropreservation facility for long-term storage of mouse embryos and sperm samples. Photograph by Todd Bauders Ordering Online Memo 3/18/15 regarding PSOM Subvention Requests for Mouse Cryopreservation Services Other Links Diabetes Research Center Digestive & Liver Disease Center Cancer Center Shared Resources CRISPR Core About the Mice Image The mice featured are three littermates generated by the injection of ES cells into mouse blastocysts. In laymen’s terms, they are siblings born to the same surrogate mother, exhibiting different combinations of the same genetic mixture. While the coats of the middle and bottom mice reveal the contribution of both the ES cells (agouti) and their host embryos (black), the top shows no external evidence of any contribution from its ES cells. These particular mice were created by our facility for research conducted in the lab of Dr. John R. Stanley, previously Chairman of the Department of Dermatology in the University of Pennsylvania School of Medicine. A targeted mutation disrupted the Desmoglein 3 gene, resulting in a phenotype similar to Pemphigus Vulgaris. (J.Cell Biol. 137: 1091-1102, 1997). Transgenic and Chimeric Mouse Facility Home About the Facility Personnel Policies Services Charges for Services Protocols Useful Tips Contact Information All Cores Department of Genetics Perelman School of Medicine Clinical Research Building 500 415 Curie Blvd. University of Pennsylvania Philadelphia, PA 19104 Search Follow Us Copyright © 2022 The Trustees of the University of Pennsylvania. All Rights Reserved. Privacy Policy. Top