COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW Alert Student and Employee COVID-19 Testing Current WSU students, faculty and staff can now walk in for a free COVID-19 test at Student Health Services. If you have pre registered through MDL you can enter through the Wesley clinic door on the east side of the building. For registration information visit our COVID-19 testing page. Community and Partners Section Menu COVID-19 Response Home University Announcements Current Students Guide Future Shockers Guide WSU Employees and Supervisors Guide Instructors FAQ Index of FAQ Questions COVID-19 Vaccination Information COVID-19 Research Student Health COVID-19 Page COVID-19 Self-Observation questionnaires COVID-19 Dashboard Timeline of WSU's COVID response Shockers United: The plan to reopen Wichita State University Important information and FAQs related to Wichita State University's phased plan to reopen campus can be found on the Shockers United website. NOTE: This is a complex, challenging, and fluid situation which continues to evolve rapidly. All information on these pages is subject to change as deemed necessary by University leadership in accordance with guidance and recommendations issued by federal, state, and local public health and government officials. Frequently Asked Questions LINK TO THIS SECTION: https://www.wichita.edu/about/COVID-19/community_partners.php#contractors Guidance for Contractors and On-Call Consultants Wichita State University - COVID-19 response - Contractors and On-Call Consultants Status March 22, 2020 -- Wichita State University has received notice that the State of Kansas Office of Facilities and Property Management (OFPM) will be closed through April 6, 2020. During this period, there will be no outgoing communication from OFPM, no plan and code reviews, and no inspections. During this two-week period, if there is a required code inspection, the Contractor will be advised to submit photographs or video to the Inspector of any activity that occurs during that period. All OFPM response will occur after April 6. As soon as possible, please advise as to what, if any, impact (including potential anticipated delays and contract extensions needed) the closure of the OFPM office will have on any project you are working on for the University. In addition, Wichita State University has made the difficult decision to limit classes to online and/or remote instruction through the end of the semester. We will not be resuming in-person classes this semester. At this time, WSU remains operational, the majority of WSU employees are working remotely, and only limited WSU facilities remain open. All WSU Facilities Planning staff are working from home and are available via email, online conferencing, or phone. Project managers will be reaching out to schedule weekly project check-ins via Zoom meeting (online conferencing with dial in phone options). Invoices, pay applications, and change order paperwork should be submitted electronically and it will continue to be processed. As of this time, if the University campus is shut down, this will NOT necessarily require on-campus construction projects to be shut down. We will evaluate each project on a case-by-case basis depending on facility access, safety and security considerations and will notify you should the need arise to suspend any work. Please continue to stay apprised of University developments and information on this website as status is rapidly evolving. Please make note of the date of communication that you are reading and make sure it is the most recent available. Please direct questions or concerns to: Emily Patterson Executive Director of Facilities Planning Office of the Vice President for Finance and Administration Wichita State University 1845 Fairmount St., Wichita, KS 67260-0047 Office: 316-978-3030 Cell: 316-841-6141 emily.patterson@wichita.edu LINK TO THIS SECTION: https://www.wichita.edu/about/COVID-19/community_partners.php#campus Campus Events and Services Will Ablah Library and Rhatigan Student Center remain open? No. With the Stay at Home Orders from Sedgwick County and the state of Kansas, the library and other buildings on campus will be closed, with offices operating remotely. How are WSU College of Fine Arts events affected? The COVID-19 outbreak has led the College of Fine Arts to cancel its remaining events this spring. How are Wichita State athletics affected? As of March 16, Wichita State will be suspending all team activities in all sports for the foreseeable future, according to senior associate athletic director Brad Pittman. The American Athletic Conference announced on March 16 that all athletic competition and championships have been canceled for the remainder of the academic year. Are any Braeburn Square business open? The Shocker Store at Braeburn Square is temporarily closed, but the staff is working remotely to assist you. Online ordering (textbooks, Shocker gear, regalia, etc.) through shockerstore.com, with free shipping on orders over $25 and a curbside pick-up option at the Rhatigan Student Center between the hours of 8:30 a.m.-3:30 p.m. Fuzzy’s Taco Shop and Journey East Asia Grill are open. Will the Steve Clark YMCA remain open? All Greater Wichita YMCA facilities are now open. Go to ymcawichita.org for hours and information. Didn't see your question? Ask us! 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©