Texas Tech University Directory Raiderlink A-Z Index Texas Tech Spirit Program Menu Search TTU Center for Campus Life Texas Tech Spirit Program Texas Tech Traditions Spirit Program The Spirit Squads lead the fans in supporting the teams at football, basketball, and volleyball games. They serve as ambassadors not only at athletic events, but also at many different school functions. In addition, the Spirit Squads gladly participate in their community by volunteering at local schools, charity events, and youth organi zations. Being a proud part of the Texas Tech Spirit Program is more than just a year-round commitment. It means dedication from each member to maintain the school spirit of the students, the alumni, and the fans. The Spirit Program members' take pride in knowing that they are an essential part of such a wonderful tradition! Co-Ed Cheer | All-Girl Cheer | Pom Squad Goin' Band from Raiderland The Goin' Band from Raiderland is a 400-plus member marching band that was established in 1925. Being the oldest student organization on campus, we are proud to uphold the traditions of Texas Tech University while embracing an environment of innovation and creativity. Located in Lubbock, Texas, Texas Tech University has an enrollment of over 30,000 students and 400 plus of those students participate in Goin' Band. Membership is open to all students regardless of major and a minimum amount of rehearsal time is used in preparing four different shows per season. A mixture of "traditional" and "corps" style techniques are used in these performances. As the 1999 Sudler Trophy Recipient, we promise to strive for honor and excellence through every encounter, rehearsal and performance. Saddle Tramps Saddle Tramps is the all-male Spirit Student Organization that is dedicated to bringing spirit to Texas Tech University. The Saddle Tramps attend all men's sporting events and support events around the university year-round. The history of Saddle Tramps is rooted in tradition and a desire to serve the University. Members of Saddle Tramps are eligible to tryout for Raider Red. High Riders High Riders is a women's Spirit Student Organization dedicated to promoting and supporting Texas Tech women's athletics by upholding the principles of Service, Spirit, Leadership, Tradition and Sisterhood. High Rider members are eligible to tryout for Raider Red. Homecoming Homecoming is an exciting week full of activities for Texas Tech students. Such activities include a bonfire, parade, float competitions, open houses, award programs, and of course the homecoming football game. Another favorite event, which has been around since 1954, is the election of the homecoming king and queen. Masked Rider Masked Rider serves as Texas Tech's official mascot and has become one of Tech's most striking icons. Each year, the student rider and horse, Fearless Champion, make hundreds of appearances to promote Texas Tech spirit and goodwill at athletic events, rodeos, parades, and other functions. Raider Red Raider Red is Texas Tech's costumed mascot. Raider Red serves as a public relations mascot who shakes hands with the crowds at athletic events and poses for pictures. Raider Red was selected as the Capital One 2012 National Mascot of the Year. He attends football games, men's & women's basketball, women's volleyball, as well as men's baseball. You can also find Raider Red making appearances at women's tennis matches, softball games, and around the Lubbock community. Students serving as Raider Red must be members of Saddle Tramps or High Riders. The Matador Song The writing of Texas Tech's alma mater was the result of a contest. The school newspaper, then called The Toreador, sponsored the contest and offered $25 to the winner. R.C. Marshall, who was the 1931 “La Ventana” editor, was deemed to have written the best song. With exception of Harry LeMaire's (the Goin' Band's director from 1926-1934) 1931 re-write of the music to The Matador Song, it has remained the same. Music by Harry LeMaire, words by R.C. Marshall The Fight Song The “Fight Song” was written by Carroll McMath and updates the Matadors, Tech's original name for the athletic teams, to the Red Raiders. The song is sung at many of Tech's sporting events. See More Texas Tech History & Traditions Texas Tech Spirit Program Address 2625 15th Street, 201 Student Union Bldg Phone 806.742.5433 Email spirit@ttu.edu Texas Tech University 2500 Broadway Lubbock, Texas 79409 806.742.2011 Follow Texas Tech University Like Texas Tech University on FacebookLike Texas Tech University on Facebook Follow Texas Tech University on twitterFollow Texas Tech University on twitter Check in with Texas Tech University on FourSquareCheck in with Texas Tech University on FourSquare Subscribe to Texas Tech University on YouTubeSubscribe to Texas Tech University on YouTube Follow Texas Tech University on FlickrFollow Texas Tech University on Flickr Follow Texas Tech University on InstagramFollow Texas Tech University on Instagram Connect with Texas Tech University on LinkedInConnect with Texas Tech University on LinkedIn Contact Texas Tech UniversityContact Texas Tech University Contact Us Campus Map Jobs @ TTU Emergency Communication Center General Policy Information Public Access to Course Info Energy Management Mental Health Resources Title IX Fraud and Misconduct Hotline Online Institutional Resumes TTU System TTU Health Sciences Center TTUHSC El Paso Angelo State University Midwestern State University Statewide Search State of Texas Texas Homeland Security Texas Veterans Portal Texas CREWS SAO Fraud Reporting Open Records Requests © 2022 Texas Tech UniversityMay 13, 2021 10:52 AM Texas Tech Spirit Program About Texas Tech Spirit Program About Back General Info Texas Tech Spirit Program About General Info Back Texas Tech Traditions Spirit Program Sponsors Spirit Program Benefits Visiting Team Spirit Groups National Championships Donate to Program Student Internship Spirit Program Staff Texas Tech Spirit Program About Spirit Program Staff Back Staff Home Stephanie Rhode, Program Director Bruce Bills, Cheer & Mascot Coach Erin Harold Alvarado, Pom Squad Coach Spirit Program Organization Chart Spirit Program Texas Tech Spirit Program About Spirit Program Back All-Girl Cheer STUNT Co-Ed Cheer Pom Squad Raider Red Masked Rider Spirit Program Alumni Spirit Alumni Board Social Media Intern National Championships Follow Tech Spirit Texas Tech Spirit Program About Follow Tech Spirit Back Social Media Email Appearance Request Texas Tech Spirit Program Appearance Request Back Spirit Request Form Texas Tech Spirit Program Appearance Request Spirit Request Form Back Cheer and/or Pom Raider Red Homecoming King & Queen Masked Rider Form Spirit Programs Texas Tech Spirit Program Spirit Programs Back Cheerleaders Texas Tech Spirit Program Spirit Programs Cheerleaders Back Cheer Home Current Squad Members Co-Ed Cheer Co-Ed Cheer Tryouts All-Girl Cheer All-Girl Cheer Tryouts College Prep Cheer Clinic Cheer Nationals Texas Tech STUNT Tech Cheer on Facebook Tech Cheer on Twitter Donate to Cheer Program Benefits Pom Squad Texas Tech Spirit Program Spirit Programs Pom Squad Back Pom Squad Home Current Squad Members Dance Camp Youth Camp Recruitment Pom Nationals Tech Pom on Facebook Tech Pom on Twitter Donate to Pom Squad Program Benefits Masked Rider Texas Tech Spirit Program Spirit Programs Masked Rider Back Current Rider Appearance Request Former Riders & Horses Honorary Riders History Advisory Committee Endowment Fund Donate Online Tryouts Statue Masked Rider on Facebook Masked Rider on Twitter Raider Red Texas Tech Spirit Program Spirit Programs Raider Red Back Raider Red Home Donate to Raider Red Raider Red on Facebook Raider Red on Twitter Saddle Tramps High Riders Other Spirit Groups Texas Tech Spirit Program Spirit Programs Other Spirit Groups Back Spirit Program Alumni Spirit Alumni Board Goin' Band from Raiderland Saddle Tramps High Riders Court Jesters Visiting Team Spirit Groups STUNT Team Texas Tech Spirit Program STUNT Team Back STUNT Home Current Team Additional Resources TTU Home Directory Raiderlink A-Z Index