HOME Make a Gift Clemson Home Students Faculty/Staff Alumni Partners A-Z Index Calendar Campus Maps CU Safety Phonebook Webcams Make a Gift Toggle navigation ABOUT FAQ CONTACT US How to Join When a student chooses to join a fraternity or sorority, they will join a chapter, and each chapter is governed by one council. At Clemson, there are four councils each with a unique recruitment process. Students interested in participating in an Interfraternity Council fraternity or a Clemson Panhellenic Association sorority must complete the online registration process, which can be found on the specific council's website. These students must also attend a recruitment orientation meeting that occurs the week of the recruitment process. Students interested in a National Pan-Hellenic Council fraternity or sorority or a Multicultural Greek Council fraternity or sorority must also attend an orientation meeting hosted by these specific councils. For information and updates, you can check the website and our Facebook page. Questions or concerns? Contact the Fraternity and Sorority Life Office, 864-656-7578. IFC Fraternity Recruitment Registration is required to participate in Fraternity recruitment. To register, complete the IFC Recruitment Registration Form. Why Join? Leadership and Academics Clemson University’s IFC fraternity community is dedicated to building future leaders by providing numerous leadership opportunities. IFC men can be found in leadership positions across a variety of Clemson University student organizations and academic research departments. The IFC fraternities at Clemson University realize that excelling in academics must be the top priority for all students. The fraternity and sorority community consistently finishes at or above the University average. IFC fraternity life offers a wide variety of academic advantages, including discounted testing services for professional school entrance exams (GRE, LSAT, MCAT) as well as various academic requirements required to be an active member geared at keeping members successful in the classroom. Brotherhood and Community Service IFC fraternities were founded as a network of support for men who were going through a similar experience. An IFC fraternity is a great way to enhance the general college experience through brotherhood and friendship. One of the founding principles of each IFC fraternity is service to the community. During the 2020-2021 academic year, over $128,500 were raised for various philanthropic efforts and over 7,300 hours were provided to various community service efforts in the Upstate community. Social Life IFC fraternities stay busy with Homecoming, alumni weekends, Parents Weekend, formals and Greek Week. Social events give IFC fraternity men an opportunity to meet new and exciting people while building lifelong friendships. The social experience is an important part of the fraternal experience and chapters prioritize providing safe environments for these experiences. Athletics Intramurals are another exciting aspect of IFC fraternity life. Intramural activities are open to all students, but it is not uncommon for chapters to support multiple teams throughout the various tournaments hosted on campus. Athletics prove to be important physical and mental outlets for students, helping improve self-confidence and develop teamwork. Through intense competition, intramurals continue to help build brotherhood and school spirit. What is Recruitment? Also known as Rush, Rush at Clemson University is intended to give interested individuals an opportunity to explore the vast array of IFC fraternities that differ in ideals, goals, chapter men and approach to fraternity life. Although all IFC fraternities may have the same general framework for success, each chapter offers unique experiences that all members to find the best environment for them to thrive and find success. Things to Know For Fall 2022 It is planned that IFC Rush will be an in-person event. The only exception will be the date of Bid Distribution. Bids will still be distributed virtually through Campus Director to any individual that receives one. More information will be shared during the Rush process. Pre-Rush Education Pre-Rush Education is mandatory for all Clemson students wishing to join an IFC Fraternity. IF YOU DO NOT COMPLETE THE PRE-RUSH REQUIREMENTS BY THE APPROPRIATE TIME, YOU WILL BE REMOVED FROM RUSH. There are three parts to Pre-Rush Education: an online Anti-Hazing module, a Bystander Intervention session, and the IFC Rush Orientation. Missing even one session will make you ineligible to join a chapter. *Note: If you completed the requirements in a previous semester, you do not need to complete them again. Recognizing the importance of academic scholarship at Clemson University, the IFC fraternities and IFC Executive Council require than continuing Clemson students must have at least a 2.7 cumulative Clemson GPA. For transfer and first-year students without a Clemson GPA, there is not a requirement and you are eligible as long as you complete the Pre-Rush Requirements. Schedule for Fall 2022 Fall 2022 Recruitment Schedule Coming Soon! For more information on IFC Rush, follow @clemsonIFC on Instagram and visit the Interfraternity Council website: www.clemson-ifc.com/recruitment CPA Sorority Recruitment Registration for 2022 Fall Recruitment will be open June 20 - August 1. New students going through recruitment will move on campus August 17. Recruitment Dates: August 17 - 23. Please visit Clemson Panhellenic Association website for all recruitment information. Why Join? Scholarship Association sororities maintain high principles of exceptional scholarship, and the bonds of sisterhood provide valuable support for the academic ambitions of Association sorority women. For the last twenty semesters, the all-Association GPA has been consistently higher than the undergraduate all-women GPA. Chapters support their members’ academic endeavors through study halls and educational programs. Some chapters also offer rewards to challenge members to reach their full academic potential. Many Association sorority women also participate in the Calhoun Honors College and a variety of other honor societies. Leadership Association sororities value leadership and encourage members to get involved within their chapters, the Association council, and throughout Clemson’s campus. As a member of our community, you will engage with and have the potential to become a strong leader on campus. Each sorority provides positions and programs that allow members the opportunity to learn and develop a variety of leadership skills, from time management to communication. Members of our community also serve in groups like Student Government, Fellowship of Christian Athletes, the IPTAY Student Advisory Board, and a variety of other professional and honorary organizations. The leadership gained through your Association sorority experience will extend beyond your college years as you will have the potential to develop skills that are transferable to your future career. Philanthropy and Service In 2020-2021, Clemson Panhellenic Association chapters raised more than $650,000 for a variety of philanthropies and completed over 29,000 hours of hands-on-service. Clemson’s Panhellenic Community is proud to support GirlUP Greenville. GirlUP GVL helps girls reach their full potential and know their true worth and value. The Clemson Panhellenic community believes that every girl should have the chance to receive an education, reach their full potential, and understand their worth. GirlUp GVL exists to serve under-resourced middle school and high school girls in Greenville, SC through experience, enrichment, and empowerment. Our donations this year are going toward GirlUP GVL to support their facility, as well as support their cause to help girls become strong and successful women. We depend on the circle of influence of sorority women to accomplish this important work. When every sorority woman, and those with whom she is connected, contributes to the GirlUP GVL Foundation in a meaningful way, our efforts will be transforming for generations to come. And the world will know the true power of a sisterhood of women. Sisterhood By joining a Association sorority, you will have the potential to create lasting friendships that are made stronger by the bonds of sisterhood. Chapter socials, sisterhood and philanthropy events will help you get to know your sorority sisters as well as members of other fraternal organizations. To build sisterhood, chapter members may meetup for fun activities like movie nights, service events, exercise classes and much more. Participating in these activities is a positive way to take a break from academics and get to know members of your chapter. Chapters also host other social events called “functions” each semester, many with fun themes. Association chapters and fraternities also pair up for events called “mixers.” At mixers, Association sisters are able to strengthen old and create new friendships across chapters. What is Recruitment? For recruitment information, please check out the Recruitment Tab on the Clemson Panhellenic Website. Things to Know What is a Pi Chi? A Pi Chi is a recruitment counselor. She is a junior or senior member carefully chosen from each chapter based on her enthusiasm for Clemson and sorority life, her objectivity and her dependability. A Pi Chi is sorority woman who has disassociated from her own sorority throughout the summer and during the week of recruitment so she can be an objective representative of CPC. She has also experienced recruitment on both sides and knows and understands what you are experiencing during recruitment. She can provide information about the week, help you find your way to recruitment-week events and provide a listening ear as you make decisions concerning sorority membership. Is recruitment only for first-year students? No, not at all. Sophomores, juniors and seniors, both continuing and transferring, are welcome to participate. Sorority life has many wonderful opportunities to offer all college women. What is a legacy? Do I have to be one to join a sorority? A legacy is a close relative (usually a mother, grandmother or sister) of a member of a particular chapter. Chapters are not required to offer an invitation to a legacy any more than a legacy is obligated to join her relative’s sorority. It is important for a potential member to find a chapter with whom she feels comfortable. If you are not a legacy, this will not hinder your participation in recruitment. What if I only want to be in a certain sorority? While many potential new members enter their recruitment experience with one or a few chapters in mind, it is important to keep an open mind throughout the week. You should not make decisions based on stereotypes or the opinions of others. This is your decision and you should do what is right for you. Do I have to follow the recruitment schedule and attend all events? YES! The object of recruitment is to obtain the most information about chapters so you are able to make the best decision. You must attend all events to which you are invited. If you have a conflict (class, practice, etc.) and you are unable to attend, you must let your Pi Chi know as soon as possible. If you choose to skip events, you will be removed from recruitment. Registration & Schedule For recruitment information please check out the Recruitment Tab on the Clemson Panhellenic Website. National Pan-Hellenic Council Intake If you are interested in joining a National Pan-Hellenic Council (NPHC) fraternity/sorority, please attend the NPHC Orientation on Sunday, Janaury 16, 2022. This orientation session will provide an overview of the NPHC Organizations on Clemson's campus and provide an opportunity to interact with current members. Attending NPHC Orientation is required once during a student's college career prior to pursuing membership in an NPHC Fraternity/Sorority. NPHC Orientation is offered during both the fall and spring semesters. Learn more about NPHC at Clemson by going to their website: www.nphcclemson.com Things to Know Each NPHC fraternity and sorority brings in new members at various times of the year through a process called Membership Intake. These organizations are permitted to conduct intake based on the chapters schedule and/or their need for growth. Some organizations conduct intake each semester; others only do so once a year. There is a 2.7 Clemson cumulative GPA requirement to seek membership in a NPHC Fraternity or Sorority. All NPHC fraternities and sororities also require a certain amount of credit hours prior to joining varying from 12 - 36 credit hours as determined by the fraternity or sorority's (Inter)National office. When organizations are planning to conduct Membership Intake, many of them will host an interest meeting in which the criteria for membership is explained. These are usually publicized via flyers on-campus and on individual chapters social media pages. Multicultural Greek Council Recruitment If you are interested in joining a Multicultural Greek Council fraternity/sorority, check out the MGC website: www.clemsonmgc.org to learn about opportunities to engage with the different organizations. Currently, there is no required orientation to join a MGC fraternity or sorority. Some MGC organizations host a week of recruitment events to allow interested students to learn more while others host informational/interest sessions for interested students. Each organization is able to decide when is the best time to bring new members into the fraternity or sorority. Why Join? Network MGC organizations create an environment in which all individuals from all walks of life can engage in productive conversations and encourage members to connect with individuals for their career path. Unity MGC strives to promote unity between organizations in addition to promoting unity across different councils through collaboration. We emphasize a sense of family and create a welcoming environment in which our members feel like they belong. Diversity as a MGC our main emphasis is focused on promoting cultural awareness across a range of different heritages. We embrace and are proud of the different organizations within our council that enhance the Clemson community. Community Service Our members give back to the community by fundraising for their respective philanthropies and volunteering. They inspire others and emphasize support for others in need. Professional Development organizations in the MGC develop future leaders and individuals who strive for academic excellence. Our members help create educational programs for the public, in addition to learning tools and skills necessary to excel in their career path and their daily lives. Things to Know All interested individuals must have at least a 2.7 GPA to join an MGC organization. Joining an organization under the MGC requires your own research and personal experience. The decision of joining an organization should be your own to make. Be yourself and express yourself, our members want to get to know who you are. We welcome everyone with open arms and open minds. If you are affiliated with another organization and plan to join a MGC organization, you can only be a part of a business, honors, service or music fraternity/sorority. CONTACT DIVISION OF STUDENT AFFAIRS 202 Sikes Hall, Clemson, SC Copyright 2020 Webmaster