Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Search Type Faculty & Staff Event Featured Profile News Opportunity Resource Student Research Project Videos Search Menu Info for… [Select an Audience] [Select An Audience] Admitted Graduate Students Current Graduate Students Employers Departments» Applied Physics and Applied Mathematics Biomedical Engineering Chemical Engineering Civil Engineering and Engineering Mechanics Computer Science Earth and Environmental Engineering Electrical Engineering Industrial Engineering and Operations Research Mechanical Engineering Admissions» Application Requirements Apply Admissions Events Campus Tours Frequently Asked Questions Graduate Funding Opportunities Tuition and Financial Aid Visit Us Brochures Graduate Student Life» Professional Development & Leadership Housing New Student Checklist Student Organizations Campus Resources Graduate Career Placement Graduation Class Day 2022 events for Graduate Students Fellowships & Opportunities The Graduate Student Affairs Team Graduate Students Resources Events & Activities Diversity and Community Engagement» Events Student Life Bridge to PhD Program Graduate Enrollment Services» Registration Requests Change of Status Change of Status Forms Learning Online Resources List» Columbia Engineering COVID-19 Emergency Fund for Doctoral Students Virtual Event Opportunities» Welcome New Students!» New Student Checklist Admitted Student Webinars Applying for a Visa Campus Resources Connect Engineering Welcome Day & Orientation Housing Information International Student Panel Frequently Asked Questions Program Kick-Off Schedule Apply Now News Bulletin Graduate Engineering Home > Admissions Graduate Funding Opportunities Application Requirements Apply Admissions Events Campus Tours Frequently Asked Questions Graduate Funding Opportunities Tuition and Financial Aid Visit Us Brochures Columbia Engineering is proud to offer funding opportunities that advance our mission to create a collaborative environment that embraces interdisciplinary thought, creativity, integrated entrepreneurship, cultural awareness, and social responsibility, and advances the translation of ideas into innovations that impact humanity. Opportunities for Doctoral Students The graduate departments of Columbia Engineering offer a comprehensive program of funding for students admitted to Ph.D. or MS/Ph.D. track programs, including fellowships and appointments in teaching and research as appropriate to the program. Funding packages include an annual stipend provided by the graduate department via assistantships, fellowships, research grants, and/or the School, full-tuition allowance, the Columbia student health insurance, health fees, university services fees, support fees, and additional benefits. Funding decisions, based solely on merit, and contingent upon making satisfactory academic progress, are made by the departments. All applicants for admission and continuing students maintaining satisfactory academic standing will be considered for departmental funds. Applicants should contact their department directly for information. The application for admission to Columbia Engineering graduate programs is also used to apply for departmental funding. Outside scholarships for which you qualify must be reported to your department and the Office of Student Financial Planning. The School reserves the right to adjust your institutional award if you hold an outside scholarship, fellowship, or other outside funding. Columbia Engineering Opportunities Assistantships Teaching and research assistantships, available to doctoral students in all departments, provide tuition exemption and a living stipend. Duties may include teaching, laboratory supervision, participation in faculty research, and other related activities. Teaching and research assistantships require up to twenty hours of work per week. If you are participating in faculty research that fulfills degree requirements, you may apply for a research assistantship. Assistantships are awarded on the basis of academic merit. Fellowships Fellowships are financial and intellectual awards for academic merit that provide stipends to be used by fellows to further their research. If you are awarded a fellowship, you are expected to devote time to your own work, and you are not required to render any service to the University or donor. You may publish research produced by your fellowship work. As a fellow, you may not engage in remunerative employment without the consent of the Dean. Applicants should contact the department directly for information. Institutional Grants Institutional grants are awarded to graduate students on the basis of academic merit. Recipients must maintain satisfactory academic standing. Supplemental Opportunities Provost Diversity Fellowship The Provost Diversity Fellowship Program was established in 2012 to enhance the diversity of Columbia’s doctoral programs. The program is designed to promote diversity, inclusion, and equity in pathways to the professoriate by attenuating barriers to access for doctoral study at Columbia University, particularly for US citizens and permanent residents who have overcome systemic challenges or hardships in their academic pursuits and who have demonstrated a strong commitment to engaging in diversity. Students may opt into consideration for this award after submitting an application to Columbia Engineering. The National GEM Consortium The National GEM Consortium is a network of leading corporations, government laboratories, top universities, and top research institutions that enables qualified students from underrepresented communities to pursue graduate education in applied science and engineering. The GEM organization contributes $20,000 for the first year, only ($16,000 stipend, $4,000 tuition). Students are expected to be supported by the Departments for the remaining expenses. Students may begin the application process via eGEM , GEM’s online application system, prior to submitting an application to Columbia Engineering. Additional Opportunities Prospective students should explore external funding opportunities they may be eligible for. Opportunities for Master's Students Earning a Master's degree at Columbia Engineering is an investment in your future. Students applying to a Master of Science program should explore the many payment and funding opportunities available through the Office of Student Financial Planning, including payment plans and private and Federal loan programs. Additional options are included below. These opportunities are limited and are not guaranteed. Fellowships Columbia Engineering is proud to offer fellowships that support our mission to recruit and advance the diversity of talent in our field, as we work to bring an engineering impact on humanity. Amazon MS Fellowship at Columbia Engineering The Amazon MS Fellowship at Columbia Engineering is designed to increase the participation of students from underrepresented groups in graduate programs in STEM disciplines - specifically, APAM, CS, EE, and IEOR. Students will receive full tuition and fees for completing MS degree program requirements in Columbia Engineering, and a chance to intern at Amazon. Students may apply for this award after submission of a Columbia Engineering application. Columbia University Scholarship for Displaced Students The Columbia University Scholarship for Displaced Students supports displaced students from anywhere in the world who are unable to complete their higher education. These students will receive up to full tuition, housing, and living assistance while pursuing undergraduate or graduate degrees across all 19 Columbia schools and affiliates, reflecting Columbia’s full institutional commitment to addressing this global crisis. Students apply for the award directly via Columbia Global Centers, in addition to submitting an application for admission to Columbia Engineering. Dean’s MS Academic Excellence Fellowship The Dean’s MS Academic Excellence Fellowship is a partial tuition fellowship and is awarded by the academic departments based on merit, to recognize students who will go on to become leading figures in the next generation of engineers and applied scientists. No separate application is required to be considered for this award. Graduate Fellowship in Engineering for Change This Graduate Fellowship in Engineering for Change is a partial tuition fellowship designed to support Master of Science students who have experienced extraordinary challenges during their endeavors in the field of engineering, and who demonstrate financial need. This program is open to students who meet the above qualifications, and we strongly encourage candidates who identify as women to apply. Students may apply for this award after submission of a Columbia Engineering application. JPMorgan Columbia University Data Science Institute Master's Diversity Fellowship The Data Science Institute, with the support of JPMorgan, is pleased to offer the JPMorgan Columbia University Data Science Institute Master's Diversity Fellowship for M.S. in Data Science students from historically underserved or underprivileged populations. Support is guaranteed for two semesters of full-time study, including full tuition, fees, and a stipend to cover living expenses in New York City. Fellows will also be invited to complete an internship with JPMorgan. Students may apply for this award after submission of a Columbia Engineering application. Shardashish Interschool Fellowship The Shardashish Interschool Fellowship (SIF) is made possible by the generous support of the UNM (Uttambhai Nathalal Mehta) Foundation. The UNM Foundation is committed to expanding educational opportunities at all levels. Believing that education and health are cornerstones of societal development, particularly in a developing country like India, the UNM Foundation expends significant resources in both these areas. The intention of the Shardashish fellowship at Columbia University is to make available the best of global educational opportunities to bright and committed students who are economically challenged. Beneficiaries of “Shardashish” (blessings of Mother of Knowledge) must push their existing boundaries to achieve and excel. The expectation of Shardashish fellows is that they will maximize their learning opportunities and once successful will pay it forward, through enabling others. The SIF provides financial assistance to master’s students with a strong established commitment to India and its future. Applicants must have demonstrated financial need and preference shall be given to students who are residents of India. Funding is for one year, varying in amount depending on the particular program, financial need, and application submissions. The maximum amount is $50,000 for that one year. The award will be applied to tuition and fees. Students may apply for this award after submission of a Columbia Engineering application. The Behring Foundation Fellowship The Behring Foundation and Columbia Engineering established the Behring Foundation Brazil Financial Aid Fund with the intent of enabling the education of more students and helping to build a critical mass of committed high-potential individuals to advance the technology and entrepreneurship ecosystem in Brazil. The Behring Foundation Fellowship awards Masters students enrolled at Columbia Engineering up to $40,000 USD towards tuition and fees. No separate application is necessary. The National GEM Consortium The National GEM Consortium is a network of leading corporations, government laboratories, top universities, and top research institutions that enables qualified students from underrepresented communities to pursue graduate education in applied science and engineering. Columbia Engineering provides funding for a select number of students awarded the GEM Full Fellowship (students who are selected for employer sponsorship). To be considered for this award, it is required that a student is selected by a GEM Employer, which will provide two paid internships. After admission to a Columbia Engineering MS program, and securing employer sponsorship, Columbia Engineering will make GEM Fellowship offers. Students may begin the application process via eGEM , GEM’s online application system, prior to submitting an application to Columbia Engineering. Students must select Columbia Engineering via the eGEM portal, no separate application is required to be considered for this award. Part-Time Academic Positions Columbia's academic departments have a number of part-time positions that are open to students each semester. Students should contact the academic departments directly to inquire about these positions and apply accordingly. Columbia Engineering's Office of Graduate Career Placement offers students many resources in their search for an on-campus job. Casual on-campus jobs are open to any Columbia student, regardless of financial aid package or citizenship. Examples of on-campus jobs include: Teaching Assistant (TA) A Teaching Assistant is an individual who assists a teacher with instructional responsibilities. A TA role is roughly 20 hrs./week with significant responsibilities, including extensive interaction with students. Course Assistant (CA) Course Assistantships are roughly 10-15 hrs./week, including interaction with students. These are generally filled by MS students who have a specific type of experience. Lab Assistant (LA) Lab Assistants help students during undergraduate teaching lab sessions and grading. An RA role is roughly 10 hrs./week and is generally filled by students who have taken the course. Grader (GR) A Grader primarily deals with homework assignments, solutions, and potentially some assistance with assignments. A Grader role is roughly 10 hrs./week. Yellow Ribbon Program The Yellow Ribbon Program supplements the base benefits of The Post-9/11 GI Bill® by allowing educational institutions to enter into dollar-for-dollar matching agreements with the U.S. Department of Veteran Affairs. Participation in this supplementary program is determined by Columbia’s participating schools on a first-come, first-serve basis and is available only to students who meet the 100% eligibility level for the Post-9/11 GI Bill®. For more information, please visit the Columbia University Veteran Affairs. The Office of Student Financial Planning The Office of Student Financial Planning provides financial aid information to Graduate Engineering students in the Fu Foundation School of Engineering and Applied Science. Their office, located in 210 Kent Hall, is the central contact for counseling Master of Science Graduate Engineering students on financial aid. Learn More External Fellowship Opportunities Review this list of external fellowship opportunities to find additional sources of funding for your graduate education. Explore Now Office of Graduate Student Affairs 500 W. 120th Street New York, NY 10027 Admissions (212) 854-4688 | [email protected] Academics and Student Affairs (212) 854-6438 | [email protected] Apply Now Plan a Visit Directory Columbia Engineering Columbia University