COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW Arts and Culture Section Menu Student Life Arts and Culture Campus Recreation Dining Diversity Explore Wichita Health and Wellness Activities and Traditions Housing and Residence Life Rhatigan Student Center Student Engagement, Advocacy and Leadership Student Government Association Student Advocate Student Conduct Graduate Student Council Wichita State is a haven for arts and culture—providing an unmatched environment where you can enjoy a wide range of performances, exhibits and more. Add to this our location in a major regional arts center—filled with venues and events of all types—and there's virtually never an excuse to stay home. WSU College of Fine Arts The College of Fine Arts packs each semester with a wide range of productions and events from student-produced shows, concerts and galleries to national and international touring artists and clinicians. And best of all, admission to Fine Arts events are free for current WSU students. Fine Arts events calendar Martin H. Bush Outdoor Sculpture Collection The Ulrich Museum's outdoor sculpture collection boasts 77 works spread across its 330-acre campus. In 2006, Public Art Review named this collection among the top ten campus collections. Take the online sculpture tour Galleries and Museums Pizza Hut Museum In 1958, two brothers – both Wichita University students – started a restaurant. They sold pizza, a dish that was just beginning to gain popularity in America, and called it Pizza Hut. Ulrich Museum of Art This campus landmark, recognizable by Joan Miro's glass and marble mosaic, "Bird People," boasts a nationally significant collection of roughly 6,300 modern and contemporary artworks. Holmes Museum The Lowell D. Holmes Museum of Anthropology, located in Neff Hall, specializes in prehistoric and historic ethnographic ceramics, and houses one of the largest collections of Asmat art in the U.S. Cadman Art Gallery Located on the first floor of the Rhatigan Student Center, the Wilson K. Cadman Art Gallery showcases annual competitions, rotating student exhibits and alternating features in the outer display. Clayton Staples Located on the second floor of McKnight Art Center West, the Clayton Staples Gallery is a dynamic exhibition space for the work of visiting artists, faculty and master's students. ShiftSpace ShiftSpace is an off-campus student gallery located on Commerce Street in the heart of Wichita's vibrant gallery district. Looking for more? Explore Art and Culture in Wichita 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©