Skip to main content Temple University Explore Temple’s Schools and Colleges Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Support Temple Temple University Search Site Search Full Menu Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees President History & Traditions Temple Health News & Media Offices Public Information Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Development Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Libraries Bioengineering Major You are here Home Academics Degrees and Programs Bioengineering Major Apply Visit Request More Info Bioengineering Major Admissions Careers, Internships & Opportunities Our Faculty Required Courses Research & Facilities Scholarships & Financial Aid Bachelor of Science in Bioengineering Gain a thorough understanding of the full breadth of bioengineering by earning a Bachelor of Science in Bioengineering in the College of Engineering at Temple University. The 128-credit bachelor’s program emphasizes scientific theories and engineering principles used to close the gap between engineering and medicine. Students gain an understanding of the breadth of bioengineering through incorporating the study of human physiology, diseases and injuries in order to invent engineering solutions. Bioengineering vs. Biomedical Engineering Bioengineering is a vast field of which biomedical engineering is a significant subset. Bioengineering covers an array of solutions to medical and nonmedical biological problems. Biomedical engineering applies engineering methods to design solutions solely for human medical problems, including designing surgical mesh, synthetic skin and other biomaterials; engineering high-tech prosthetics or medical devices; inventing improved diagnostic methods or instruments; repairing damaged tissues by engineering new tissue; and more. Faculty in the Bioengineering Department at Temple teach biomedical engineering and also conduct research in that discipline. The Bioengineering Department offers an intimate, supportive community in which the faculty are approachable and you are welcome to ask questions, explore your interests and have your ideas taken seriously. Learn more about the Department of Bioengineering. In the Bioengineering curriculum, incoming students will first and foremost be trained as solid Temple engineers, focusing on applying engineering science, design and analysis to real-life problems specifically in the areas of biology and medicine. Hands-on engineering experience is gained through intense laboratory coursework. Bioengineering study leads to careers in several fields. Students may select from one of three areas of study. Concentrations You can focus on Bioengineering or you can take one of the following concentrations. Cellular Engineering Learn to design using biomaterials or cells and scaffolds to repair damaged or diseased tissue at the cellular and molecular levels. Focus on a quantitative approach to engineering, as well as different uses of materials in biology and medicine. View Concentration Details Engineering Devices Study the development and uses of cutting-edge biomedical devices and imaging modalities designed to control, record and analyze biological functions. View Concentration Details Pre-Health Undertake a broad-based bioengineering curriculum that prepares you for pre-med or other health science entrance tests, and covers coursework that prepares you for careers in medicine or the health sciences. View Concentration Details Related Graduate Degrees Bioengineering MS Bioengineering PhD Biology MS (College of Science and Technology) Biology PhD (College of Science and Technology) Doctor of Medicine (Lewis Katz School of Medicine) +1 Accelerated Degree Programs The College of Engineering also offers accelerated +1 degree Bachelor-Master programs. Qualifying students earn a bachelor’s degree and a master’s degree in one five-year course of study, instead of the usual six years. Bioengineering undergraduate majors can earn a Master of Science in Bioengineering in one year. Graduate courses taken as an undergraduate in this program are charged at the undergraduate rate. Learn more about the College of Engineering’s +1 accelerated degree programs. Tuition & Fees In keeping with Temple’s commitment to access and affordability, the Bachelor of Science in Bioengineering program offers a competitive level of tuition with multiple opportunities for financial support. Tuition rates are set annually by the university and are affected by multiple factors, including program degree level (undergraduate or graduate), course load (full- or part-time), in-state or out-of-state residency and more. Learn more about our tuition and fees. These tuition costs apply to the 2021–2022 academic year. Pennsylvania resident: $20,808.00 per year Out-of-state: $33,984.00 per year Laptop Requirement The College of Engineering requires that students own a laptop for their engineering coursework by their junior year of study. Learn more about the hardware recommendation. Our Academic Advisors Through advising workshops, career coaching, individual appointments and walk-in advising, support services are available to all undergraduate Engineering students. Such services range from academic mentoring, career development, choosing a major, degree planning, learning support and post-graduation planning. All academic advisors are available Monday through Friday, 8:30 a.m. to 5 p.m., to answer questions regarding General Education (GenEd), college and major requirements, and university academic policies and procedures. Learn more about the Center for Academic Advising and Student Affairs. Student Clubs & Organizations Participating in one or more of the College of Engineering’s 15 student groups usually also means greater success at Temple. Further, you’ll find peer support and like-minded students, and probably effect some positive change, either locally or around the world. Among other groups, students can join the Biomedical Engineering Society, an organization that provides Bioengineering majors with opportunities to meet working engineers, learn more about the profession and build professional networks. See the full list of Engineering clubs and organizations. Student Competitions Each year, Temple Engineering students compete rigorously in regional and national events that celebrate design, engineering and innovation, including the Be Your Own Boss Bowl, the Formula SAE Collegiate Design Series, the NASA Robotic Mining Competition and the Student Design Competition. Study Away Opportunities Add a global perspective to your Bioengineering Major. Study abroad for a summer or semester. Accreditation The Bioengineering program is newly established and graduated its first cohort in 2016. It is seeking retroactive accreditation from the Engineering Accreditation Commission of the Accreditation Board for Engineering and Technology (ABET) during its 2017–2018 review. Learn more about our accreditation, program educational objectives and student outcomes. EN-BIOE-BSBE Additional Program Information Visit College Site View Program Details Go back to AcademicsMore in Bioengineering Major Admissions Careers, Internships & Opportunities Our Faculty Required Courses Research & Facilities Scholarships & Financial Aid Apply Visit Request More Info Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Calendar Policies Social Media TUportal TUmail Accessibility Careers at Temple Safety & Emergency Information Ethics & Compliance Privacy Statement Professional Licensure Disclosures Follow Temple University Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community. Apply Visit Request More Info