Skip to main content Florida State University FSU | Advocate for Florida State Webmail Search FSU Navigation FSU Sites Faculty & Staff Directory Departments & Services Home Priorities Legislative Priorities Preeminence Archive Contact Your Legislators News FSU Highlights Talking Points FSU News Legisletter Experts Guide Governance Governance Florida Governor Florida House of Rep. Florida Senate Board of Governors Department of Education FSU Board of Trustees Governmental Relations Partners Partners Seminole Caucus Legislative Liaisons Governmental Relations Alumni Association Seminole Boosters FSU Foundation The Ringling State University System Academics Admissions Research Faculty Students Veterans Support FSU Skip to main content Advocate for Florida State Home Priorities Legislative Priorities Preeminence Archive Contact Your Legislators News FSU Highlights Talking Points FSU News Legisletter Experts Guide Governance Governance Florida Governor Florida House of Rep. Florida Senate Board of Governors Department of Education FSU Board of Trustees Governmental Relations Partners Partners Seminole Caucus Legislative Liaisons Governmental Relations Alumni Association Seminole Boosters FSU Foundation The Ringling State University System Governance Florida Governor Florida House of Rep. Florida Senate Board of Governors Department of Education FSU Board of Trustees Governmental Relations Governance Florida Governor The Governor is responsible for day-to-day operations of the state and is the chief law enforcement officer. The governor appoints not only the heads of departments under sole oversight of the governor, but also the heads of departments that are under both the governor and Cabinet's oversight, although at least three Cabinet members must agree to the appointments. The governor also appoints members of several regulatory boards and commissions. Florida House of Rep. The House of Representatives has 120 members. All are elected every two years during the general elections held in even-numbered years. House districts are based on population with each member representing approximately the same number of residents. To do so, some members may represent only one county or a portion of a county, while another may represent multiple counties. The House like the Senate is reapportioned every 10 years when the federal census is released. Florida Senate The Senate has 40 members, each elected to a four year term. Half the senate members are elected every two years, providing for staggered terms. Senate districts are based on population with each senator representing approximately the same number of residents. To do so, some senators may represent only one county or a portion of a county, while another senator may represent multiple counties. The senate like the house is reapportioned every 10 years when the federal census is released. Board of Governors The Board of Governors is a constitutionally mandated body charged with oversight of the State University System and its member institutions. Department of Education The Florida Department of Education is a state agency serving under the Governor charged with increasing the proficiency of all students within one seamless, efficient system, by providing them with the opportunity to expand their knowledge and skills through learning opportunities and research valued by students, parents, and communities, and to maintain an accountability system that measures student progress. FSU Board of Trustees Each of the twelve state universities has a 13-member Board of Trustees responsible for cost-effective policy, implementing and maintaining high-quality education programs consistent with the university's mission, performance evaluation and developing a process meeting state policy, budgeting, and education standards. Governmental Relations The Office of Governmental Relations is the liaison between all levels of government and The Florida State University community. Special emphasis is placed on monitoring the Florida legislative process, from which the University receives a majority of its funding. In addition, the Governmental Relations staff is committed to informing the University community of key legislative issues of interest and impact. Office of Governmental Relations 216 Westcott Tallahassee, FL 32306-1440 Telephone: 850-644-4453 or FAX: 850-644-2888 Share: Connect: Facebook © Florida State University Tallahassee, FL 32306 Questions or Comments Privacy Policy Copyright FSU Directory Assistance: 850-644-2525 Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube LinkedIn More FSU Social Media