Skip to Content Menu Audiences Clemson.edu PSA CAFLS Resources A-Z Index Calendar Campus Maps Phonebook Apply Now Make a Gift Academics Research Extension About Giving Programs County Offices Who We Are Publications Resources Contact SC Master Gardener Program Effective June 1, 2021, in-person volunteering may resume statewide. Volunteers will be required to adhere to the same safety guidelines as Clemson Cooperative Extension employees. Please look to your local Master Gardener Coordinator for guidance. Altered Requirements The volunteer hours requirement for July 1, 2020 - June 30, 2021 has been reduced by half to 10 hours of educational service. The 10-hour continuing education requirement remains in effect. Master Gardener students that started a training class in the Fall of 2019 or later will have until December 31, 2021 to complete their 40 hours of educational service to obtain initial certification. The volunteer hours requirement for July 1, 2019 - June 30, 2020 was waived. The 10-hour continuing education requirement remains in effect. The South Carolina Master Gardener Program was designed to use the services of trained volunteers who have horticulture knowledge and a willingness to share that knowledge with others through the Clemson Cooperative Extension Service. To help you decide if you should become a South Carolina Master Gardener, ask yourself these questions: Do I want to learn more about growing plants and solving plant problems? Am I eager to participate in an intense training program? Do I look forward to sharing my knowledge with others? Can I commit the time needed to attend the training and serve as a volunteer? If you answered yes to these questions, the South Carolina Master Gardener program may be for you! Use this link to find your local Master Gardener Coordinator. Please note the South Carolina Master Gardener Program is not a professional certification and should not be used to promote or endorse commercial products and/or services. Home About the MG Program MG Training Class Find Your Local MG Coordinator Volunteering Associations Store For Coordinators Online Reporting Branded Apparel and Gear Continuing Education FAQ Resources Home & Garden Information Center Clemson University Cooperative Extension Service offers its programs to people of all ages, regardless of race, color, gender, religion, national origin, disability, political beliefs, sexual orientation, gender identity, marital or family status and is an equal opportunity employer. Copyright © 2022 Clemson University Clemson Cooperative Extension Clemson, SC Contact Us Emergency Preparedness Web Accessibility For Employees Page Update Request