Skip to main content Skip to main navigation Law Current Students Baylor Law Menu Baylor Law About News Mission Statement and Core Values Baylor Law Learning Outcomes Practice Ready Law Professors, Life Coaches The Quarter System Quick Facts Public Service Legal Clinics Special Events Notice of Non-Discrimination Building Hours Contact Us History 100 Years of Practice Court Baylor Law Virtual Tours Academics Academic Calendar Academic Services Advocacy Transactional Degree Programs Executive LL.M. in Litigation Management Baylor Law Learning Outcomes Experiential Learning Legal Writing Study Abroad at St Andrews Baylor Law Review Admissions Explore Apply Finance Visit Admitted Students Quick Facts Executive LL.M. in Litigation Management Consumer Information (ABA Required Disclosures) Alumni & Giving Alumni Resources Get Involved Give Back Baylor Law School Alumni Information Update Submit Alumni Note Career Development Employers Current Students Employment Statistics Contact the CDO Baylor Law School Current Students Academic Services Calendars Health & Wellness Policies and Feedback Professional Development Leadership Development Student Life Equity, Civil Rights and Title IX ABA Required Disclosures Law School Home Events Event Calendars Emergency and Closure Information Faculty & Staff Faculty and Staff Directory Faculty Scholarship Faculty and Staff News Faculty and Staff Resources Law School Home Library Library Collection Electronic Resources Library Services Policies and Information Library Online Catalog Technology Law School Baylor>Law School>Baylor Law Current Students>Academic Services>Curriculum & Advisement>Dual Degree Programs Dual Degree Programs Baylor Law offers five dual degree programs: JD/Master of Business Administration JD/Master of Business Administration - Healthcare Administration JD/Master of Divinity JD/Master of Taxation JD/Master of Public Policy and Administration The JD/MBA and the JD/MTAX programs are offered in connection with the Hankamer School of Business. The JD/MPPA program is offered in connection with the Political Science Department of the Baylor College of Arts and Sciences. The JD/MDiv is offered in connection with the Truett Theological Seminary. Juris Doctor / Master of Business Administration To accommodate students who contemplate a career where business and law overlap, the Law School and the Hankamer School of Business offer a dual degree program that leads to the simultaneous award of Juris Doctor (JD) and Master of Business Administration (MBA) degrees. The JD/MBA program strives to improve the effectiveness of both business managers and legal counsel for business entities by training each to understand the role of the other and the importance of their respective contributions to the successful operation of a business. JD/MBA students are encouraged to pursue a concentrated course of study at the Law School in Business Transactions or Business Litigation. Students receive twelve hours of credit toward their JD upon the successful completion of the required MBA courses and twelve hours of elective credit toward their elective requirement for the MBA upon successful completion of law school course work. Thus, JD/MBA students complete 114 quarter hours of law courses and twenty-four semester hours of graduate business courses. Since both degrees are awarded simultaneously, all requirements in both schools must be completed in order to receive either degree. Students with adequate business undergraduate degrees generally complete the dual JD/MBA program in three-and-a-half to four years. Students with a non-business undergraduate degree or undergraduate majors lacking proficiency in all business fields are required to participate in the Business School Integrated Management Seminar before enrolling in any graduate business courses. Students must make regular application for admission to, and be accepted by, both the Law School and the Business School. All applicants must take both the GMAT and the LSAT. For more information about the business school application, please click, here. Juris Doctor / Master of Business Administration-Healthcare Administration To accommodate students who contemplate a career where healthcare and law overlap, the Law School and the Robbins MBA Healthcare Program offer a dual degree program that leads to the simultaneous award of a Juris Doctor (JD) and a Master of Business Administration (MBA) with a specialization in healthcare administration. Healthcare has become an increasingly specialized area of the law and healthcare administrators are integral to the successful management of hospitals, nursing homes, hospice facilities, insurance companies, provider networks and government policy organizations. This dual degree program provides appropriate general background courses and necessary specialized healthcare law classes while also allowing students to examine the legal and business aspects of healthcare administration from multiple perspectives, drawn from a cross-section of multidisciplinary expertise. Unlike many healthcare administration MBA programs, the Robbins MBA Healthcare Program requires a seven-month paid Executive Residency with a leading, progressive health organization. With a residency placement rate of 100%, every student has the opportunity to receive guidance from well-qualified, practicing healthcare executives, apply and test administrative theory in practical work situations, and develop leadership skills in an actual healthcare organization. Students receive twelve hours of elective credit toward their JDs upon the successful completion of the required MBA-Healthcare Administration courses. Both degrees are awarded simultaneously upon the completion of all requirements in both schools. Students with adequate business undergraduate degrees generally complete the dual JD/MBA-Healthcare Administration program in approximately four years. Students with non-business undergraduate degrees or undergraduate majors lacking proficiency in all business fields are required to participate in the Business School Integrated Management Seminar before enrolling in any graduate business or healthcare courses. Students must make regular application for admission to, and be accepted by, both the Law School and the Business School. All applicants must take the GMAT and the LSAT. To contact the Business School, click here. Juris Doctor / Master of Divinity This dual degree program links the faculties, resources, and educations of a nationally-recognized law school and a top-tier seminary, offering students an education that prepares them well for a multitude of leadership opportunities. Graduates will be fully qualified to serve in a traditional law practice or in a congregational setting. Beyond these contexts, the skill sets developed from this program will also allow graduates to serve in non-profit organizations, particularly those focused on human rights, or in careers that provide legal advocacy for society’s underserved populations. The dual JD/MDiv degree program requires students to meet the standard requirements of both degree plans. A prospective student must make regular application for admission to, and be accepted by, both the Law School and the Seminary. Once admitted to both schools, the student will declare his or her intent to enroll in the dual degree program with the Associate Dean for Academic Affairs of the Seminary and the Associate Dean of the School of Law. For more information about the JD/MDiv degree, click here. Juris Doctor / Master of Public Policy and Administration Students interested in governmental service at the federal, state, or local level can complete their law degree along with a Master of Public Policy and Administration (MPPA) degree offered by the Political Science department of Baylor University. This dual degree program leads to the simultaneous award of Juris Doctor (JD) and Master of Public Policy and Administration degrees. While the JD program trains students to recognize, analyze, and formulate legal solutions to legal issues, the MPPA program develops students' abilities to work within the context of governmental entities that must confront larger issues of public policy. The JD/MPPA degree strives to improve the effectiveness of governmental leaders in the administration of massive, complex regulatory or benefit programs. Students receive twelve hours of elective credit toward their JDs upon the successful completion of the MPPA requirements and twelve hours of credit toward their elective requirement for the MPPA upon successful completion of law school course work. Thus, JD/MPPA students complete 114 quarter hours of law and twenty-four semester hours of graduate work. Since both degrees are awarded simultaneously, all requirements in both schools must be completed in order to receive either degree. Students must make regular application for admission to, and be accepted by, both the Law School and the Graduate School. All applicants must take the GRE and the LSAT. For more information about applying to the Graduate School, click here. Juris Doctor / Master of Taxation Baylor is the only law school in Texas and one of only a few law schools in the nation to offer a dual degree program that leads to the simultaneous award of the Juris Doctor (JD) and Master of Taxation (MTAX) degrees. JD/MTAX students receive a broad-based legal education in the Law School, while the Hankamer School of Business Master of Taxation Program provides the students with an in-depth study of all major aspects of taxation. Graduate tax courses include tax research and planning, tax practice and procedure, advanced individual taxation, corporations, partnerships and S-corporations, and international, state, and local taxation. JD/MTAX students take Estate Planning at the Law School. Students desiring a career in taxation (either planning or litigation), business planning and transactions, or estate planning would benefit from both degrees. JD/MTAX students are encouraged to pursue a concentrated study at the Law School in Business Transactions, Estate Planning, or Business Litigation. Students receive twelve hours of elective credit toward their JDs upon the successful completion of the required MTAX courses and twelve hours of credit toward their elective requirement for the MTAX upon successful completion of Law School course work. Thus, JD/MTAX students complete 114 quarter hours of law and nineteen semester hours of graduate tax. Since both degrees are awarded simultaneously, all requirements in both schools must be completed in order to receive either degree. It is possible for students with adequate accounting backgrounds to complete the dual JD/MTAX program in thirty-six months. Students with a non-accounting undergraduate degree may be required to complete some basic level accounting courses before enrolling in any graduate tax courses. Students must make regular application for admission to, and be accepted by, both the Law School and the Business School. All applicants must take the GMAT and the LSAT. For more information about the MTax program, click here. Baylor Law Current Students Academic Services Bar Exam & MPRE Bar Review Resources Bearweb Catalog Class Rank Course & Exam Schedules Course Listings, Books & Materials Curriculum & Advisement Advisement Documents Course Descriptions Degree Audit Degree Programs Dual Degree Programs Elective Prerequisites for Juris Doctor Field Placement Program Juris Doctor Degree Requirements Professional Tracks & Special Distinctions for J.D. Students Schedule Planner for J.D. Students Exams FERPA Grade Deadlines Graduation Office of Access and Learning Accommodation(OALA) Official Transcript Professional Development Program Professional Development Videos Registration Add/Drop Course & Final Exam Schedules Student Financial Services Tuition & Fees Law Financial Aid Counseling University Financial Aid Office Parking & Transportation Pay Your Bill Scholarship Criteria Study Abroad Transfer Credit Calendars Health & Wellness Policies and Feedback ABA Required Disclosures FERPA Policies Honor Code Notice of Non-Discrimination Student Conduct Policy Comments and Concerns Submit Your Comments & Concerns Practice Court Online Attendance Request Form Professional Development Leadership Development Student Life Announcements John William & Florence Dean Minton Student Awards Ceremony and Lecture Series 2022 | Student Awards Ceremony Donors & Recipients of the 2022 Student Awards 2021 | Student Awards Ceremony Donors & Recipients of the 2021 Student Awards 2020 | Student Awards Ceremony Donors & Recipients of the 2020 Student Awards Student Opportunities Competitions Internal Competitions External Competitions Competition Results Policies and Forms The Faegre Drinker Spring Moot Court Competition Courtcall Law School Award The Ultimate Writer Competition Student Organizations Event and Speaker Approval Form Study Abroad Equity, Civil Rights and Title IX ABA Required Disclosures Law School Home About Academics Admissions Alumni & Giving Career Development Current Students Faculty & Staff Library Events Event Calendars Emergency and Closure Information Show More General Information Colleges, Schools, Libraries & Research Admissions Administration Gateways For... About Baylor Anonymous Reporting Athletics Ask Baylor Bookstore Calendar Campus Map Directory Give Light Give to Baylor Illuminate Mental Health Resources News Pro Futuris Report It Search Social Media Title IX Baylor Libraries College of Arts & Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work George W. Truett Theological Seminary Graduate School Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Louise Herrington School of Nursing Research at Baylor University Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Engineering & Computer Science School of Music More Academics Undergraduate Admissions goBAYLOR Graduate Admissions Baylor Law School Admissions Social Work Graduate Programs George W. Truett Theological Seminary Admissions Online Graduate Professional Education Virtual Tour Visit Campus Annual Fire Safety and Security Notice Athletics Human Resources Marketing and Communications Office of General Counsel Office of the President Office of the Provost Operations, Finance & Administration Senior Administration Student Life University Advancement Baylor Alumni Faculty & Staff Online Graduate Professional Education Parents Prospective Faculty & Staff Prospective Students Students Sheila & Walter Umphrey Law Center 1114 South University Parks Drive One Bear Place #97288 Waco, Texas 76798 tel (254) 710-1911 fax (254) 710-2316 Building Hours Monday - Friday 8:00am - 5:00pm Saturday - Sunday Closed Holidays Closed Copyright © Baylor® University. All rights reserved. Legal Disclosures. Baylor University • Waco, Texas 76798 • 1-800-229-5678 Academic Services Bar Exam & MPRE Bar Review Resources Bearweb Catalog Class Rank Course & Exam Schedules Course Listings, Books & Materials Curriculum & Advisement Advisement Documents Course Descriptions Degree Audit Degree Programs Dual Degree Programs Elective Prerequisites for Juris Doctor Field Placement Program Juris Doctor Degree Requirements Professional Tracks & Special Distinctions for J.D. Students Schedule Planner for J.D. Students Exams FERPA Grade Deadlines Graduation Office of Access and Learning Accommodation(OALA) Official Transcript Professional Development Program Professional Development Videos Registration Add/Drop Course & Final Exam Schedules Student Financial Services Tuition & Fees Law Financial Aid Counseling University Financial Aid Office Parking & Transportation Pay Your Bill Scholarship Criteria Study Abroad Transfer Credit Calendars Health & Wellness Policies and Feedback ABA Required Disclosures FERPA Policies Honor Code Notice of Non-Discrimination Student Conduct Policy Comments and Concerns Submit Your Comments & Concerns Practice Court Online Attendance Request Form Professional Development Leadership Development Student Life Announcements John William & Florence Dean Minton Student Awards Ceremony and Lecture Series 2022 | Student Awards Ceremony Donors & Recipients of the 2022 Student Awards 2021 | Student Awards Ceremony Donors & Recipients of the 2021 Student Awards 2020 | Student Awards Ceremony Donors & Recipients of the 2020 Student Awards Student Opportunities Competitions Internal Competitions External Competitions Competition Results Policies and Forms The Faegre Drinker Spring Moot Court Competition Courtcall Law School Award The Ultimate Writer Competition Student Organizations Event and Speaker Approval Form Study Abroad Equity, Civil Rights and Title IX ABA Required Disclosures Law School Home About Academics Admissions Alumni & Giving Career Development Current Students Faculty & Staff Library Events Event Calendars Emergency and Closure Information