Skip to content Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons Find People Events Global Health Donate Search About Us About Us Explore VP&S Message from the Dean VP&S History Celebrating the Leadership of Lee Goldman Facts & Statistics 2021 State of the School Explore VP&S Leadership and Administration Campus Resources and Facilities Events Community Programs Contact Us Education Education Academic Programs Residencies, Fellowships, and Training Student Resources Office of Innovation in Health Professions Education Academic Programs MD Program MD Dual Degrees and Special Programs Program in Genetic Counseling Programs in Human Nutrition Programs in Occupational Therapy Programs in Physical Therapy PhDs in Biomedical Sciences Additional Master's Degree Programs Additional Educational Opportunities MD Program Join our MD program to become a physician with compassion, a sense of self, and true grit in all medical pursuits. Explore Our Program Research Research Office for Research Areas of Research Research Faculty Honors and Awards For Researchers For Researchers Core and Shared Facilities Research Resources Funding Areas of Research VP&S continues to be a world leader across the entire spectrum of basic science, translational, and clinical research Learn About Our Research Patient Care Departments & Centers Departments & Centers Affiliated Hospitals and Institutions Basic Science Departments Centers and Initiatives Clinical Departments and Divisions Faculty Initiatives Clinical Departments and Divisions Our mission is to provide world-class patient care, foster innovative research, and train the next generation of leaders in medicine. View Clinical Departments and Divisions Columbia Center for Translational Immunology You are here Home > Departments & Centers > Columbia Center for Translational Immunology (CCTI) Columbia Center for Translational Immunology (CCTI) About Us Research Education Columbia Center for Translational Immunology (CCTI) The Columbia Center for Translational Immunology (CCTI) at Columbia University Irving Medical Center is a multi-departmental, multidisciplinary research center aimed at optimizing translation of advances in basic immunology from the laboratory to the clinic, understanding immunological diseases and events in humans and optimizing transfer of information and methodologies to achieve synergy between different disciplines of applied immunology. About Us Learn more about the Columbia Center for Translational Immunology's mission and get to know our researchers. About Us CCTI Cores Core facilities within the CCTI include flow cytometry and clinical studies. Learn About Our Services Learn About Our Services Research Explore the areas of research and core facilities available at the Columbia Center for Translational Immunology. Research Education Learn about educational opportunities at the CCTI. We welcome predoctoral and postdoctoral candidates to contact us for information about research opportunities. Education Ways to Give With your support, the CCTI will have the tools, personnel, and resources to fight immunological diseases and conditions. Donate Now Donate Now News How Close Is Xenotransplantation, Really? May 9, 2022 “Xenotransplantation is the future, and always will be.” Topic Transplantation Dr. Kazuhiko Yamada Paper Most Referenced in Xenotransplatation April 5, 2022 Dr. Yamada has received an award from Wiley for Top Cited Article, 2020-2021. Topic General Medicine Are Immunocompromised Patients Left Out by COVID Vaccines? Source: CUIMC Newsroom July 26, 2021 Dr. Pawel Muranski, MD, CCTI Principal Investigator, discusses what’s known and unknown about COVID vaccines and the immunocompromised. View All News Follow Us on Social Media Columbia University Irving Medical Center NewYork-Presbyterian ColumbiaDoctors About VP&S Careers Education Research Administration Inside VP&S Columbia University Irving Medical Center Vagelos College of Physicians & Surgeons 630 West 168th Street New York, NY 10032 United States Follow Us Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Back to top