Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Information For Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff Search BC.edu Links Office of the Provost and Dean of Faculties Menu Main Nav Office of the Provost and Dean of Faculties Office of the Provost and Dean of Faculties Contact Back Back Close About Overview Diversity & Inclusion Contact Dean of Law School Search Academics & Research Overview Accreditation Information Assessment BCPEP Grants and Awards University Council on Teaching Tam/Tame Details University Fellowships Committee Undergraduate Research Support Fellowships and Scholarships Fulbright U.S. Student Program Events Faculty Openings Faculty Resources Overview Faculty Annual Report Guide Faculty Recruiting Expense Reimbursement Guidelines Sabbaticals New Faculty Information New Faculty Moving Expenses Faculty Openings Documents & Reports Close Contact Directory A to Z Listing Search BC.edu Find pages or people Search Close Close Apply Visit Give Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close Home Faculty Resources Faculty Recruiting Expense Reimbursement Guidelines Faculty Resources Faculty Annual Report Guide Faculty Recruiting Expense Reimbursement Guidelines Sabbaticals New Faculty Information Faculty Openings Faculty Recruiting Expense Reimbursement Guidelines Advertising Expenses A portion of a department’s advertising expenses may be covered, but only with prior written approval. It is expected that departments will have first explored the alternatives of funding such expenses through department/school budgets. All advertisement requests related to a given position should be made at the same time. If a department is hiring more than one person, whenever possible, all position requests should be made at the same time. Requests should include the name(s) of the publication(s), expected date(s) of ads, and cost estimate(s). Advertisements funded by other budgets and/or published free of charge should be mentioned. Candidate On-Campus Visit Expenses Lodging, meals, and travel, associated with a candidate's visit to the BC campus will be covered (see Expenses Covered below). EXPENSES COVERED Lodging Includes two nights at the BC corporate rate at one of the following approved hotels. Also covered are other reasonable expenses (e.g., local phone calls, breakfast and dinner) charged to the room. Expenses deemed excessive, such as long distance phone calls, may be denied. Three nights will be covered if reduced travel expenses more than offset the cost of the extra night, since deeply discounted plane fares may make it attractive for the candidate to stay over on a Saturday night. Prior approval of this arrangement should be worked out. Information about approved hotels and BC rates can be found at BC's Travel site. Other aproved hotels include: Park Lane in Newton Reservations 617-964-1666 State that you are booking a room for a BC faculty candidate. Bertram Inn in Brookline Reservations 1-800-295-3822 State that you are booking a room for a BC faculty candidate. Beacon Inn in Brookline Reservations 617-264-7948 State that you are booking a room for a BC faculty candidate. Meals Meals for the candidate and the faculty host(s) are covered on the day of the interview only, although meals for the candidate will be covered during the candidate's visit and for other necessary time in transit. It is expected that the Faculty Dining Room (or comparably priced facility) will be used for lunch. No more than three faculty members may take the candidate out for one dinner and the cost per person (including tax and tip) cannot exceed $64. This will be strictly enforced. Receipts need to be itemized (mandatory by Accounts Payable) and the number of diners should be included for reimbursement. Travel Reimbursement for round-trip travel (i.e. airfare or mileage allowance) between the candidate's home and/or office and BC will be covered up to $1,000. Anything exceeding that amount must be approved in advance. Candidates should be encouraged to use economy or discounted fares whenever convenient. SHARING EXPENSES WITH OTHER UNIVERSITIES If candidates visit other universities on the same trip, it is expected that expenses will be shared. Any reasonable division of expenses by the candidates will be honored. REIMBURSEMENT OF EXPENSES Complete the BC Expense Report form which can be found on BC's Travel site. Attach original receipts to an 8.5x11" paper, then forward, along with one copy, to your school's Service Center/Dean's Office. Include the faculty member's Eagle ID number on the bottom of each page. To reimburse candidates not on the BC system, include their full name, address, and telephone number. Accounts Payable requires the original itemized meal receipt for reimbursements. Back To Top Back To Top Office of the Provost and Dean of Faculties Waul House 270 Hammond Street Chestnut Hill, MA 02467 617-552-3260 provostoffice@bc.edu 140 Commonwealth Avenue Chestnut Hill, MA 02467 Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College