Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Division of Student Affairs Student Affairs Information For Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff Search BC.edu Links Student Outreach Menu Main Nav Student Outreach and Support Services Contact Back Back Close About Overview Frequently Asked Questions Contact Disability Services Overview Accommodations Faculty and Staff Information LGBTQ Programs and Support Student Support Contact Close Directory A to Z Listing Search Division of Student Affairs Search BC.edu Find pages or people Search Close Close Apply Visit Give Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close Disability Services Home Disability Services Disability Services Accommodations Faculty and Staff Information The Disability Services Office empowers students with medical, physical, psychological, and temporary disabilities to achieve their educational, career, and personal goals. Information and Forms For General Inquiries Email Us Registration Instructions and Information Campus Accessibility Reporting Form Note Taking Strategies Handout Disability Services Monthly Newsletter May 2022 Newsletter April 2022 Newsletter March 2022 Newsletter February 2022 Edition December 2021 Edition Subscribe to the monthly newsletter Registration Information and Forms Eligibility Requirements Campus Accessibility Registration Directions The Disability Services Office serves students with medical, physical, or psychological disabilities. Students with learning disabilities and/or ADHD should register with the Connors Family Learning Center. The Disability Services Office will notify students of any approved accommodations five to ten business days after all three registration steps have been completed. To Register with the Disability Services Office: 1. Complete the registration form below. 2. Upload the medical documentation to registration form. 3. Schedule an intake appointment using the DSO online scheduling calendar. Filling out the form and uploading your documentation will be the initial steps toward completing the disability services registration process. Registration Form *Attention incoming first year and new transfer students: For best consideration regarding Housing accommodation requests, students must complete a registration form, submit any necessary documentation and meet with a representative from the Disability Services Office by June 1. For questions email: disabsrv@bc.edu. Documentation The documentation serves as the foundation for legitimizing the request for a reasonable accommodation. Please see documentation guidelines below that correspond to the nature of your disability. Your treatment provider will need to write a letter that includes the information outlined in these guidelines. Guidelines for medical and physical conditions and chronic illnesses Guidelines for mental health disorders Guidelines for traumatic brain injuries Guidelines for medically restricted diet Documentation must be on letterhead from diagnosing physician or primary care physician's office. Legal Rights Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 requires that: No otherwise qualified individual with a disability in the United States . . . shall, solely by reason of her or his disability, be excluded from the participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance . . . Section 504 and Title II of the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) prohibit the discriminatory assignment of disabled students to segregated classes or facilities. These laws apply to elementary and secondary as well as postsecondary schools. In elementary and secondary schools, disabled students may be assigned to separate facilities or courses of special education only when this placement is necessary to provide equal educational opportunity to them. Any separate facilities, and the services provided in separate facilities must be comparable to other facilities and services. To determine what the educational needs of a disabled student may be, schools must carry out preliminary evaluation and placement procedures. Grievance Policy Should students not be able to receive adequate services as defined through their documentation, they have the right to seek assistance through the Student Grievance Procedure for Students with Disabilities. Temporary Impairments Temporary impairments are not listed as disabilities under the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA); however, every attempt is made to provide support and assistance to students who experience a temporary disability. Accommodations may include the use of a laptop, extended time on exams, use of the Eagle Escort van service, or having swipe card access to the Government Documents Room in order to bypass the O'Neill Library stairs next to 21 Campanella Way. Building Accessibility Alumni Stadium Alumni Stadium: Direct access to Alumni Stadium can be gained at Gates D & E North, and Gate F South via a ramp. There are four elevators in each corner of the stadium that access all levels of the stadium designated for accessible seating Burns/Bapst Library Burns/Bapst Library: The accessible entrance is located on the west side of the building facing College Road. This door is controlled by library staff and security. Access can only be gained by a key card issued by the Office of Student Development or by intercom (during normal library operating hours). Campion Campion: Has three accessible entrances. At the main entrance on the east side of the building across from McGuinn Hall, an accessible ramp into the Campus School at the main gate directly opposite the guard shack on the south side, an accessible entrance is also located on the north side across from the service building. Carney Hall Carney Hall: Has two accessible entrances. An accessible ramp is located adjacent to the Beacon Street bus stop on the south side. A second accessible entrance is located at the basement level directly across from McGuinn Hall on the east side. Conte Forum Conte Forum: Accessible entrances to Conte Forum can be found at both the North and South Main entrances. The south student athlete’s entrance leads directly to a ramp and elevator that accesses all levels of the building. The north entrance has a lift that allows access the concourse level. Devlin Hall Devlin Hall: The main accessible entrance is in the front, north side of the building facing the quad. A second accessible entrance is located on the south side with exclusive access to a lecture hall. Fulton Hall Fulton Hall: Has two accessible entrances. At the main entrance facing the Academic Quad on the north side, and on the south side facing McGuinn Hall. Gasson Hall Gasson Hall: Gasson Hall has four accessible entrances. Two accessible entrances are located opposite the Academic Quad on the south side of the building, two additional accessible entrances were recently added via a split accessible ramp at the eagle statue on the north side of the building off Linden Lane. Higgins Hall Higgins Hall: The main entrance across from the statue of St. Ignatius is accessible. There is also an accessible entrance on the first floor behind the parking lot to the right of the loading dock, which is open from 7 a.m. to 8 p.m. Monday through Friday. Lyons Hall Lyons Hall: The accessible entrance is on the south side of the building, basement level, adjacent to Stokes Hall North. McElroy Commons McElroy Commons: The accessible entrance is located on the south side of the building adjacent to Beacon Street. McGuinn Hall McGuinn Hall: Has two accessible entrances. One is located in the front of the building’s east side to the left of the main entrance accessed by a ramped walkway into lecture hall 121 lobby. The second is located in the rear of the building’s east side, directly across from Carney Hall. Merkert Merkert: Has two accessible entrances. One is located at main entrance on the north side facing Conte Forum and the second is located at the upper plaza entrance facing Campion Hall. O'Neill Library O'Neill Library: Access to O’Neill Library main level 3 is from the east plaza side, access to the first level is opposite Maloney Hall and to the right, follow signs to access elevator to other levels. Stokes Hall Stokes Hall: All of the building’s entrances are accessible. One entrance on the west side of the building is equipped with auto door operators, and is located off of the accessible parking area directly across from McElroy Hall. Dining Hall Accessibility and Transportation Information Dining Hall Accessibility Dining Hall Accessibility Accessible entrances to University Dining Facilities: Carney's, McElroy 3rd floor: Accessible from the first floor lobby elevator Eagle's Nest, McElroy 2nd floor: Accessible from the first floor lobby elevator Faculty Dining Room, McElroy 3rd floor: Accessible from the first floor lobby elevator Hillside Café, Maloney Hall, 1st floor: Accessible from the front entrance Lower Campus Dining Hall, Corcoran Commons, 1st floor: Accessible from the front entrance Lyons basement ("The Rat," Welch Dining Hall): Accessible from the basement entrance Transportation Transportation Bus/Shuttle www.bc.edu/shuttle 617-552-0151 The University runs two shuttle routes: one around campus and to Cleveland Circle, and the other to the Newton Campus where freshman residential halls, the Law School, and various athletic fields are located. Shuttle buses are wheelchair accessible. Eagle Escort Van Service www.bc.edu/bcpd (Boston College Police Department) 617-552-8888 Students must first contact Health Services in Cushing Hall (617-552-3225) or the Disability Services Office in Maloney Hall 448 (617-552-3470) and ask to be added to the medical transport list for Eagle Escort. After this step has been completed, students should contact Eagle Escort through the Boston College Police Department to request transport. Students with mobility impairments can be picked up and dropped off on Middle Campus once a day and are permitted to go to Health Services between classes rather than returning to the residence hall if they need to rest or take a break between classes. Parking Permits Students with a documented disability may apply for a parking permit The application must be completed by both the student as well as an appropriate medical professional, and should be returned to the DSO for evaluation. Incomplete forms will not be reviewed. Students must also fill out the online registration form. For additional information view the interactive Campus Accessibility Map. Boston College Shuttle Information Eagle Escort Services Parking Permit Application Form Back To Top Back To Top Student Outreach and Support Services Maloney Hall, Suite 445 617-552-3434 student.support@bc.edu About Disability Services LGBTQ Support Students of Concern Division of Student Affairs Division of Student Affairs BAIC BC Bands Business Service Center Career Center Counseling Services Graduate Student Life Health Promotion Health Services Residential Life Robsham Theater Student Conduct Student Involvement Student Outreach & Support Women’s Center Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College