Skip to main content Temple University Explore Temple’s Schools and Colleges Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Support Temple Temple University Search Site Search Full Menu Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees President History & Traditions Temple Health News & Media Offices Public Information Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Development Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Libraries Scientific Writing Certificate (Graduate) You are here Home Academics Degrees and Programs Scientific Writing Certificate (Graduate) Apply Request More Info Scientific Writing Certificate (Graduate) Scientific Writing Graduate Certificate Gain science- and technology-based writing skills with the Scientific Writing Graduate Certificate from Temple’s College of Science and Technology and the Klein College of Media and Communication. Designed to meet the growing needs of both media and scientific communities, this degree will prepare you for careers in biotechnology, communication and public relations, journalism, patent law, pharmacy, public health, publishing and STEM disciplines. This interdisciplinary program’s main objective is to train you to accurately and concisely convey complex scientific arguments and concepts in an accessible manner for different demographics. Throughout your studies, you will have access to faculty and resources from both the College of Science and Technology and the Klein College of Media and Communication. The four-course program covers a variety of science writing skills, from technical writing for clinical reports to journalistic writing for media and news outlets. You can earn the certificate in one year, taking two courses per semester. Classes & Curriculum In this 13-credit-hour certificate program, your courses will include Ethics Regulation and Policy in Biotechnology, Introduction to Grant Writing, Introduction to Scientific and Regulatory Writing, and Reporting and Writing I. Learn more about Scientific Writing Certificate courses. Related Graduate Degrees Bioinformatics PSM Bioinnovation PSM Biotechnology PSM Cyber Defense and Information Assurance PSM Globalization and Development Communication MS * Information Science and Technology MS Journalism MJ * Media and Communication PhD * Media Studies and Production MA * Pharmaceutical Science MS ** Pharmaceutical Science PhD ** Regulatory Affairs and Quality Assurance MS ** Scientific Writing PSM Related Graduate Certificates Information Science and Technology Certificate Labeling, Advertising, and Promotions Certificate ** Scientific Writing Certificate Strategic Communication and Cross-Culture Leadership Certificate * *Klein College of Media and Communication **School of Pharmacy Tuition & Fees In keeping with Temple’s commitment to access and affordability, this Graduate Certificate offers a competitive level of tuition with multiple opportunities for financial support. Tuition rates are set annually by the university and are affected by multiple factors, including program degree level (undergraduate or graduate), course load (full- or part-time), in-state or out-of-state residency, and more. These tuition costs apply to the 2021–2022 academic year. Pennsylvania resident: $1,205.00 per credit Out-of-state: $1,567.00 per credit Learn more about our tuition and fees. Our Advisors The Scientific Writing Certificate (Graduate) program relies greatly on its board of outside experts drawn from the professional world of media and communications. These board members advise the faculty steering committee on curriculum issues, help teach courses and provide internship opportunities for students. Program Contact Contact the following faculty for more information about the Scientific Writing Certificate. Karen Palter, an associate professor in the Biology Department, is the director of the Scientific Writing Certificate. Phone: 215-204-5588 Email: karen.palter@temple.edu Accreditation As a division within Temple University, the College of Science and Technology is accredited by the Middle States Commission on Higher Education. ST-SCWR-GRAD Additional Program Information Visit College Site View Program Details Go back to AcademicsMore in Scientific Writing Certificate (Graduate) Apply Request More Info Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Calendar Policies Social Media TUportal TUmail Accessibility Careers at Temple Safety & Emergency Information Ethics & Compliance Privacy Statement Professional Licensure Disclosures Follow Temple University Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community. Apply Request More Info