By continuing to use this site, you agree to the use of cookies in accordance with our privacy policy. Dismiss Stay Safe The official source of public health information for Syracuse University. Skip to Content Open menu About Admissions Academics Life Athletics More Search the University Open search Popular searches Close menu Home About Toggle dropdown Leadership Vision & Mission Consumer Information Facts & Figures Plan Your Visit Campus Map History News Partnerships Work at Syracuse Social Media Bookstore Brand Help & Contacts Admissions Toggle dropdown Undergraduate Graduate Online Part-Time Cost & Aid Request Information Visit & Tour Apply Academics Toggle dropdown Schools & Colleges Undergraduate Majors & Minors Graduate Degrees Online Programs Syracuse University Global Study Abroad Opportunities & Support Calendars Departments Research Centers & Institutes Libraries, Collections & Galleries Academic Administration Life Toggle dropdown Accessibility & Diversity Campus Highlights Events Calendar Services & Support Meals & Dining Housing Groups & Activities Recreation & Facilities For Students For Veterans & Military For Faculty & Staff For Parents & Families A-Z Index Sitemap Login Athletics Men’s Sports Toggle dropdown Basketball Cross Country Football Lacrosse Rowing Soccer Track and Field Women’s Sports Toggle dropdown Basketball Cross Country Field Hockey Ice Hockey Lacrosse Rowing Soccer Softball Tennis Track and Field Volleyball Athletics Dept. Toggle dropdown Facilities Staff Directory Academic Honors Community Service Spirit Program Varsity Club Sports Medicine Championships Fan Zone Toggle dropdown Dome Schedule Seating Information Orange All Access Otto’s Kids Club Game Photos Promotions Orange Club Schedules News Alumni About Toggle dropdown Notable Alumni Alumni Association Awards News Events and Clubs Toggle dropdown Orange Central Northeast Midwest South West World/Affinity Regions Toggle dropdown Atlanta Boston Chicago Los Angeles Middle East New York San Francisco Washington, DC Services Toggle dropdown Career Network Generation Orange Directory Profile Class Notes Giving Contact Contact Visit Apply Coronavirus Updates Forever Orange Home About Brand Email In this Section Formatting Sample Signatures Email Standards To standardize email protocol, the availability of contact information and adherence to accessibility guidelines, email clients should be configured according to the following criteria. Body Text Email body text should be set in Verdana, 11pt, RGB 0/0/0 (#000000). Email clients that describe text sizes in pixels (e.g. Apple Mail) should be set in 15px. Outlook for Windows On the File tab, choose Options > Mail . Under Compose messages , choose Stationery and Fonts . On the Personal Stationery tab, under New mail messages or Replying or forwarding messages , choose Font . In the Font box, choose the font, style, size, and color that you want to use. You can see a preview of your changes as you make them. Choose OK three times to return to Outlook. Outlook for Mac Change the default font by going to Outlook > Preferences > Fonts . In the Default fonts for composing messages section click the Font button next to each composition style—new mail messages, replying or forwarding messages, and composing and reading text messages. On the Font tab, choose the default Font, Font style, Size, Color and Effects. Email Signatures Copy/paste the following template into the Signature field in your email client’s settings. Then, modify the content to reflect your personal information. See Formatting your Email Signature for additional guidance or if you lose any of the formatting when copying/pasting this template. See Sample Email Signatures for information regarding the use of preferred pronouns, alumni class years, social media links and persistent messaging. Full Name Title Department Name T 315.443.1111 M 315.443.2222 F 315.443.3333 email@syr.edu Address, Syracuse, NY 13244 syracuse.edu Syracuse University Information Structure Job titles and departments should be comma separated for those with dual appointments or multiple areas of responsibility. The T / M / F abbreviations should be removed from signatures that include only one phone number. While it is necessary to make distinctions between telephone numbers and fax numbers, it is no longer necessary to call special attention to an email or Internet address. Abbreviations should always be used for street addresses: Rm. (Room), Ste. (Suite), Ave. (Avenue), St. (Street), Pl. (Place), Rd. (Road), N., S., E., W. (North, South, East, West). The link to syracuse.edu may be replaced with a more specific division/department URL. Modern email clients add hyperlinks to URLs and email addresses automatically. It is not necessary to add these links manually. Additional Guidelines In addition to fonts, colors, sizing, and content, the following guidelines should also be considered: Avoid the use of background images and background colors. Keep it simple and use a white background to ensure accessibility. Avoid including inspirational quotes, unless they speak to an approved University campaign. Only include contact information relevant to your position. Use your common sense. Your signature does not need to be included in every message, especially when it is a part of an ongoing conversation. Popular Toggle dropdown Academic Calendar Campus Map Careers Libraries Majors and Minors Visit and Tour A-Z Toggle dropdown Academic Departments Schools and Colleges Sitemap Search Contact Toggle dropdown Admissions Financial Aid Emergency Contacts Human Resources Make a Gift Login Toggle dropdown MySlice Blackboard SUMail Syracuse University 900 South Crouse Ave. Syracuse, NY 13244 Phone: +1.315.443.1870 Follow S.U. on Instagram Like S.U. on Facebook Follow S.U. on Twitter Follow S.U. on LinkedIn Follow S.U. on Tiktok Subscribe to S.U. on YouTube © Syracuse University. Knowledge crowns those who seek her. Accessibility Accreditation Emergencies Privacy