Brown University Quick Exit General Health Physical Health Acne Asthma Breast Exams Bronchitis Colds Concussion Headaches Meningitis Mononucleosis Sleep Seasonal Flu Sun Safety and Skin Cancer Stomach Flu Testicular Self-Exams Travel and Health Yeast Infection Emotional Wellbeing Mindfulness Sleep Stress Self-Care Techniques for Stress Relief Wellness on Campus Social Wellbeing Community, Connection and Coping: Remote Resources Consent Economic Stress Roommate Relationships Unlearning Toxic Masculinity Reproductive Health Abortion Adoption Amenorrhea Bacterial Vaginosis Colposcopy Erectile Dysfunction Pregnancy Gender Care GYN Visits HPV Vaccine Menstruation Pelvic Inflammatory Disease Pregnancy Tests Premature Ejaculation Prenatal Care Testicular Self-Exams Accessing Care Gender Care GYN Visits LGBTQ Health Care at Health Services Men's Health Exams Pregnancy Tests STI Testing Options Resources and Links Nutrition & Eating Concerns Eating Well at Brown Being a Vegetarian Dietary Guidelines Eating Off Meal Plan Meal Plan And Dining Information Supplements Eating Concerns and Body Image Body Image Concerns Eating Concerns Help at Brown Sports Nutrition Relative Energy Deficiency in Sport (RED-S) Sports Nutrition Accessing Care Help at Brown Worried about a Friend Sexual Health Sex 101 SHAG! Erectile Dysfunction Orgasm Premature Ejaculation Sex and Alcohol Sex Toys Sexually Explicit Media Contraception Birth Control Pills Cervical Cap Condoms Depo-Provera Emergency Contraception Fertility Awareness Method Implant Internal Condoms IUD Ortho Evra (The Patch) Ring Spermicides and Lubricants The Recent Election & Contraception Access Withdrawal (Pull Out Method) Reproductive Health Abortion Adoption Amenorrhea Colposcopy Erectile Dysfunction Pregnancy GYN Visits HPV Vaccine Menstruation Pelvic Inflammatory Disease Pregnancy Tests Prenatal Care Testicular Self-Exams Yeast Infection Safer Sex Ship n SHAG! Sexual Health and Safer Sex During Covid-19 Abstinence Condoms Dental Dams Internal Condoms Post Exposure Prophylaxis (PEP) Pre Exposure Prophylaxis (PrEP) Safer Sex Withdrawal (Pull Out Method) STIs AIDS/HIV Bacterial Vaginosis Chlamydia Colposcopy Gonorrhea Hepatitis B Herpes HPV and Genital Warts HPV Vaccine Molluscum Contagiosum Oral Sex and STIs Pelvic Inflammatory Disease Pubic Lice and Scabies Sexually Transmitted Infections Syphilis Talking with a Partner STI Testing Options Trichomoniasis Urinary Tract Infections Yeast Infection Sexual Assault & Dating Violence Get Help Sexual Assault Response Line SHARE Advocates Dating Violence First Five Days After an Assault Male Survivors Sexual Violence and Assault Sexual Harassment Stalking Help a Friend SHARE Advocates How to Help a Friend Get Involved in Prevention Interrupting the Red Zone: How we keep each other safe Culture of Respect Collective Sexual Assault Peer Education (SAPE) Help Prevent Sexual Assault Unlearning Toxic Masculinity Relationships and Communication Consent Dating Violence Learn More Common Reactions to Sexual Violence and Assault Predatory Drugs Sexual Misconduct and Title IX Sexual Violence: Key Terms Resources and Links Alcohol & Other Drugs Alcohol Alcohol and Your Body Recognizing a Problem Risks and Realities Sex and Alcohol Ways to Cut Down Other Drugs Caffeine Cocaine Ecstasy Energy Drinks GHB Inhalants Ketamine LSD Marijuana Methamphetamine Predatory Drugs Psilocybin (Mushrooms) Rohypnol Tobacco Smokeless Tobacco Smoking Cessation Tobacco Learn More Law and Policy Summary Educational Links Accessing Care Resources at Brown Off Campus Resources Calling EMS How to Help a Friend Quit Smoking How to Talk to a Friend about Drinking or Drug Use Google Tag Manager Learn More Educational Links Resources at Brown BWell Health Promotion 401.863-2794 BWell provides individual confidential appointments where a Health Educator and the student collaborate to develop a schema about the effects of their substance use. These conversations can be a powerful tool in helping to make informed decisions, reduce harm, prevent relapse or connect with additional resources. Call 401-863-2794 or request an appointment online. Counseling and Psychological Services (CAPS) 401-863-3476 Provides treatment for a range of psychological concerns, including drug and alcohol use issues, in confidential setting, and a goal-focused, collaborative framework. The Dean for Recovery and Substance Free Students 401.863-2536 Brown University is committed to the maintenance of a campus environment that supports all students in achieving their academic goals. To that end, the University dedicates resources to support students in recovery from addiction and substance use disorders. The Dean for Recovery hosts the Early Sobriety at Brown group for students who are committed to abstinence. Brown Emergency Medical Services (EMS) 401.863-4111 Emergency medical care available 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. Signs of when to call EMS include: Loss of consciousness or unresponsiveness Seizures or severe shaking Physical injury Continued vomiting or blood in vomit Slowed or irregular breathing Hypothermia (low body temperature), bluish skin color or paleness Click here to find out what happens when you call EMS. Health Services 401.863-3953 Confidential health care for Brown students. 450 Brook Street. Nursing Services 401-863-1330 Nurses are available for phone consultation 24/7. Student Support Deans, Dean of the Day available at 401-863-3145 Seeks to support students who encounter a wide range of issues, connects them to resources that fit their situation, and serves as a sounding board to explore options and develop plans to help them manage the issue and its impact on their time at Brown. Local and National Resources Alcoholics Anonymous 401-438-8860 Anonymous twelve-step recovery program. For information and meetings, go to rhodeisland-aa.org. Butler Hospital 1-800-433-6888 (inside RI) or 1-800-272-9699 (outside RI) When you or someone you know is ready to commit or re-commit to recovery the patient assessment team at Butler can assist in finding the right program. For more information visit www.butler.org. Narcotics Anonymous 866-624-3578 12 step recovery program that focuses on the disease of addiction rather than any particular drug. Visit www.gpana.org to find local meetings or access the helpline information. The Rhode Island Department of Behavioral Health Care, Developmental Disabilities and Hospitals (BHDDH) This site offers a listing of licensed substance use treatment agencies throughout Rhode Island. List includes agencies licensed to provide detox, residential, outpatient, and medication-assisted treatment services. Rhode Island’s Hope & Recovery Support Line, 401-942-STOP (7867) This support line connects people to treatment and recovery services 24 hours/day, 7 days/week, 365 days/year. SAMHSA's National Helpline 1-800-662-HELP (4357) TTY: 1-800-487-4889 This Helpline provides 24-hour, free and confidential treatment referral and information about mental and/or substance use disorders, prevention, and recovery in English and Spanish. ZenCare Allows you to review local (Providence and Boston area) therapists. You can filter options by selecting alcohol, substance use or recovery focus. You can also filter by insurance accepted and schedule a phone consultation to see if it is a right fit. General Alcohol, Tobacco and Other Drugs LInks National Institute of Drug Abuse NIDA provides research reports, answers commonly-asked questions and gives related links. MEDLINEplus Health Information This site will give you links to drug facts, prevention and screening, research, treatment and statistics. Information available in Spanish. DanceSafe DanceSafe is a harm-reduction web site centered on drugs found in nightclubs and raves. The site offers drug information, a risk assessment, ecstasy testing kits and e-news. National Institutes of Health Club Drugs Site Provides trends and statistics, research reports and health information on club drugs. Alcohol Links e-CHUG e-CHUG is a free, anonymous assessment tool that provides individualized feedback on the role alcohol is playing in your life. You can also see how your use compares with other college students. If you would like to talk to someone about your use, you can call Health Education at 401.863-2794 for a confidential appointment. The Blood Alcohol Educator Learn how gender, body weight, food and how fast you drink can affect your blood alcohol concentration. This is an interactive tool that shows you how much alcohol is in different drinks and how your BAC would compare to male and female friends. College Drinking: Changing the Culture Click on the section for students to find out about myths and facts, take an interactive tour of the flow of alcohol through the body or learn about alcohol poisoning. You can use the Calorie Counter to learn about the number of calories in different drinks and you can send an eCard to someone who's drinking worries you. National Institute on Alcohol Abuse and Alcoholism NIAAA publishes research on many aspects of alcohol, answers frequently asked questions and provides pamphlets and brochures. The research papers and reports can be downloaded. Tobacco Links Trytostop.org An online, interactive quit site developed by the Massachusetts Department of Public Health. The Quit Wizard will help you assess your risk factors, set a quit date and keep you smoke free. Other features include success stories, expert advice and a bulletin board. There are many language options including Spanish, Korean, Chinese, Hatian-Creole, Russian and Portuguese. WebMD's Smoking Cessation Center This site allows you to set goals, design your own personalized quit plan, find out about nicotine replacement therapy and read up on quitting options. There is a smoking cessation support group and articles on the latest news, like facts about nicotine water. Quitnet Run by Boston University, Quitnet offers quitting guides, personalized quit plans and forums with expert counselors. Marijuana Links Busted: America's War on Marijuana This PBS Front-line program goes behind the scenes of America's marijuana industry, examining the production, sale and effort to eradicate the use of this drug. Topics include the criminal justice system, marijuana's treatment in popular culture and efforts to prevent use by teenagers. Online features include interviews, video excerpts and health effects of marijuana. Marijuana Anonymous MA uses the basic 12-step recovery program for people who are addicted to marijuana. Online groups are available, as well as publications, frequently asked questions and 12 questions to determine if marijuana is a problem in your life. The literature section has stories by teens, help for loved ones of marijuana addicts, and the dangers of cross addiction. e-TOKE e-toke is a free, anonymous assessment tool that provides individualized feedback on the role marijuana is playing in your life. You can also see how your use compares with other college students. If you would like to talk to someone about your use, you can call Health Education at 863-2794 for an appointment. Ecstasy Link National Institute on Drug Abuse Provides information on ecstasy addiction, long-term effects and the history of ecstasy. GHB Link Project GHB, Inc. This educational website provides information on the dangers of GHB, drugs that are similar to GHB and help for addiction. Inhalant Link National Inhalant Prevention Coalition The FAQ section includes statistics on inhalant use, damage to the body and brain and how to help someone in a crisis. Information is also provided in Spanish. Rohypnol Links National Institute on Drug Abuse NIDA drug pages have research reports, statistics and information on addiction. Center for Substance Abuse Research This page includes the drug's profile, history, slang terms and research citations. About BWell: Quick Links About Us Staff Confidential Appointments Sexual Assault Response Line Workshops Peer Education Programs Health Empowerment Tools PHONE NUMBERS 401.863-2794 Health Promotion 401.863-3953 Health Services 401.863-6000 Sexual Assault Response Line 401.863-4111 EMS 401.863-3476 Counseling & Psychological Services 401.863-4111 DPS Make an Appointment Calling EMS If you are wondering if you should call EMS, you should call EMS. If you are still wondering, click here. Talking to a Friend About Drinking or Drug Use It's not easy to know what to say when you're worried about a friend's drug or alcohol use. Click here to learn what to do and what not to do. Get Involved Meet Our Staff About Us Make an Appointment Brown University BWell Health Promotion Health and Wellness Brown University Box 1928 450 Brook Street Providence, Rhode Island, 02912 Phone 401-863-2794 Fax 401-863-7953 [email protected] © 2022 Brown University Connect: [email protected] Related Offices Brown EMS Counseling and Psychological Services Health Services Social Media BWell on Facebook SHAG on Facebook BURP on Facebook Health Services on Facebook