COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW Details: Psychology, Doctorate DoctoratePsychology All Programs Fairmount College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Psychology Wichita State’s Doctor of Philosophy (PhD) in psychology offers three programs of study: clinical, community and human factors psychology. Students have access to 14 state-of-the-art labs, groups and clinics, and the opportunity for faculty-student research—preparing them for future success in the workforce. Learn how Psychology is the right fit for you. Request Info Start Your Application Applied learning at Wichita State At Wichita State, applied learning is everything. In fact, every degree we offer has a guaranteed applied learning or research experience built right into it equipping you with the relevant skills and experience to make you workforce ready before graduation. Learn about our innovative approach Admission to the program Admission the program requires: Admission to the WSU Grad School Three letters of reference from people acquainted with your academic background and potential A brief autobiographical statement describing particular interests, experiences and goals related to academic and professional work in psychology Submission of Graduate Record Exam (GRE) scores For additional admission details, click on the link below. Admission requirements Inside the Program Students help create device that could detect driver drowsiness, make roads safer Psychology students can gain real-life industry experience before graduation. Drowsy driving injures and kills thousands of people in the United States each year. Alongside students in his Human Automation Interaction Lab, psychology professor Jibo He has taken on the task of helping change that. Students are learning real-life industry skills as they work with He to develop a device that could alert drowsy drivers and avoid potential accidents. The hope is that this device will make the roads safer. Curriculum The Ph.D. comprises 90-to-101 credit hours and has a nine-year time limit for completion. In addition to the courses required of all students, each of the three programs have their own requirements. Students will also complete a second-year project, post-second-year project research, qualifying examination and dissertation. View the curriculum Careers A graduate degree in psychology from Wichita State opens doors to high-paying, high-demand careers in diverse settings—from health care to human resources. Learn more about careers in this field Similar Programs Sociology (Master's) 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©