Skip to main content Skip to main content SMU Home Giving Giving Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. Simmons About Dean's Message Programs, Degrees, and Certifications Faculty and Staff Directory Simmons Governance Simmons School History Executive Board Simmons Luminary Award XPRIZE Honor Code Simmons Resources Travel-Study Programs Simmons Lecture Series AERA 2022 Graduation Ceremony May 2022 Paving the Way to Inclusion Conference Simmons Graduate Council Faculty and Administrative Position Openings Simmons Blogs and Social Media Hub Annette Caldwell Simmons Hall Harold Clark Simmons Hall Photo Tour Contact Us Academic Departments & Areas of Study Applied Physiology & Wellness B.S. | Applied Physiology & Sport Mgmt. Undergraduate Specializations Applied Physiology and Health Management Sport Management Sport Performance Leadership M.S. | Health Promotion Management M.S. | Sport Management Non-Degree | Wellness Dispute Resolution & Counseling M.S. | Counseling Specialties Clinical Mental Health Marriage, Couple and Family School Counseling M.A. | Dispute Resolution Non-Degree | Dispute Resolution Specialties Executive Coaching Education Policy & Leadership M.Ed. | PK-12 School Leadership M.Ed. | Higher Education Ed.D. | PK-12 School Leadership Ed.D. | Higher Education Graduate Liberal Studies MLS | Science, Arts, & Humanities DLS | Science, Arts, & Humanities Non-Degree | Science, Arts, & Humanities Ph.D. in Education Teaching & Learning B.S. | M.Ed | MBE | Ph.D. Graduate Specializations Bilingual Special Ed ESL Gifted Literacy Math STEM Urban Education Research Research A comprehensive list of Simmons research projects Faculty Research Publications & Presentations Recent research publications and presentations Center on Research & Evaluation (CORE) Offers comprehensive program evaluation services, largely in the non-profit sector, and performs education research Research in Mathematics Education Conducts research in mathematics education and disseminates findings Integrative Physiology Laboratory Investigates autonomic function and thermoregulation in healthy and clinical populations Locomotor Performance Laboratory Studies terrestrial locomotion and the relationship of muscle function to metabolic energy expenditure and performance Center for VR Learning Innovation Investigates the use of virtual, augmented and mixed reality for education and human development Youth Sports Impact Partnership SMU and the Children’s Health Andrews Institute have launched a collaboration dedicated to improving the health, activity levels, and well-being of kids. Research Resources for Simmons Faculty and Staff Technology and Education Cluster Our Faculty Community Engagement Advanced Placement Summer Institute Summer Institute for AP and Pre-AP Teachers The Budd Center Partners with community agencies to offer educational opportunities for disadvantaged children Center for Family Counseling Counseling services in Plano for individuals and families College Access Programs Programs and workshops that help students advance academically Institute for Leadership Impact Leaders in education, health and social enterprise enhance skills to lead organizations and solve real-world problems Project Connect A repository of ideas, activities and videos for educators interested in improving instruction for English Language Learners West Dallas STEM-Focused School Preparing students for the next generation of STEM jobs Alumni Search Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. Navigate Search Skip to main content Teacher Education Undergraduate Undergraduate Undergraduate Programs UG Academic Records and Advising The Charles Butt Scholarship Graduate Graduate Admission Master of Education Program Master of Bilingual Education Master of Education: Educator Preparation Master of Education in Special Education Tuition Graduate Specializations Graduate Specializations Admission Tuition Bilingual Education Specialization Program English as a Second Language (ESL) Supplemental Specialization Gifted & Talented Specialization Learning Therapy Specialization Literacy Studies Mathematics Specialization Special Education Specialization STEM Specialization Urban Education Specialization Ph.D. Admission Course Descriptions ☰ Teacher Education SMU Simmons: Ranked among the top 12 private graduate schools of education nationally and among the top 3 public & private schools in Texas. Simmons Academics Teacher Education Are you ready to make a difference? Ranked among the top 12 private graduate schools of education in the nation. Our students are already making many positive changes in their communities. They are educators who challenge ideas and expand minds. Our small class sizes and individual attention allow our students to create lasting relationships with our faculty. Our community outreach programs foster connections between our students and the community. Our emphasis on theory and on research-based practices provides our students with the tools they need to make a difference in the world. Are you ready to join us? Welcome. While our master’s degree programs incorporate various specializations, we also offer non-degree specialization and certification-preparation programs that are designed to satisfy the State Board for Educator Certification requirements for teachers who promote scholarship and best practices in particular educational areas or serve discrete audiences such as gifted children or children for whom English is not the native language. The additional specialization training prepares teachers for the respective certification exams; all SBEC certifications require that a candidate pass a state test. These advanced credentials are attached to the standard teaching certificate, so as a prerequisite to earning a graduate certification, a candidate must hold a bachelor's degree and the initial teaching certificate. Learn more about our programs Master of Education (M.Ed.) Prospective Students Practicing educators who wish to broaden their academic preparation and classroom skills. Students may specialize in any 1 or 2 of the following areas: bilingual education, ESL, gifted and talented, mathematics, literacy, and STEM education. Career and Personal Benefits Mastery of the content and skills should enable the graduate to be more effective and efficient in his/her job. Additionally, the specialization knowledge may allow the educator to pursue new career opportunities. Program Details Master of Education (M.Ed.) with Certification Preparation Prospective Students The individual who would like to teach and already has a bachelor's degree but who does not have the appropriate teaching certification credentials to teach. This program allows students to pursue a graduate degree and teaching credentials simultaneously. Career and Personal Benefits Graduates often find that they have better presentation and organization skills, but more important, they have a Master’s degree and a new career opportunity. Program Details Master of Education (M.Ed.) in Special Education Prospective Students Practicing educators interested in working with students with special needs. Career and Personal Benefits Content mastery equips graduates to work with special-needs students; they are able to employ evidence-based practices, monitor response to intervention, individualize intervention based on assessed needs, understand special education law and policy, deliver positive-behavior support, and collaborate with the colleagues and families of special-needs individuals. Program Details Master of Bilingual Education (M.B.E.) Prospective Students Ideal for pre-service and in-service Spanish/English bilingual educators who have a near-native or native command of Spanish and English. MBE courses integrate the language and culture of students in the Spanish-speaking world, particularly students of Hispanic heritage living in the United States. Career and Personal Benefits Successful graduates are prepared to work as expert bilingual teachers, bilingual coaches, or leaders of bilingual programs in their schools or districts. Program Details Bilingual Education Supplemental Specialization Prospective Students Teachers who work with students who do not speak English as their native language. Career and Personal Benefits Students who succeed in this 4-course sequence are qualified to take the TExES supplemental certification exam in bilingual education, a passing score on which qualifies them to work with students who do not speak English as their native language. Program Details English as a Second Language (ESL) Supplemental Specialization Prospective Students Practicing educators interested in working with ESL populations. The programs 4 courses may be applied toward SMU’s 36-credit hour Master of Education (M.Ed.) with a specialization in ESL. Career and Personal Benefits Graduates are prepared to take the TExES English as a Second Language (ESL) supplemental certification exam, a passing score on which qualifies them to work with ESL students populations. Program Details Gifted and Talented Specialization Prospective Students Ideal for teachers of the gifted and talented, both specialists and regular classroom teachers. Career and Personal Benefits Those who successfully complete the 4-course sequence (12 credits) are prepared to take the Gifted and Talented TExES (Texas Examination for Educator Standards); those who pass the exam earn GT certification. Additionally, the program‘s courses can be applied to requirements for the M.Ed. degree. Program Details Literacy Studies Specialization Prospective Students Teachers who desire to advance their knowledge of literacy instruction and assessment specifically for early literacy and late literacy and for those who desire to pursue Reading Specialist certification. Career and Personal Benefits Those who successfully complete the program will be more effective teachers, improving student outcomes in literacy. The program's coursework can be applied toward SMU's M.Ed. degree. Program Details Early Literacy Scholars Program Prospective Students K-2 classroom teachers in high-need public schools (including charters). Career and Personal Benefits Those who successfully complete the program’s 18-credit hours are equipped to provide comprehensive, coherent, and complete early-literacy programs in regular classrooms. The program’s coursework applies to the requirements of SMU’s M.Ed. program. Program Details Learning Therapy Specialization Prospective Students Individuals interested in working with children or adults who have dyslexia or related language learning disorders. Career and Personal Benefits Those who successfully complete the specialization are qualified to take the Alliance National Registration Exam for Multisensory Structured Language Education at the therapy level, a passing score on which qualifies the individual for membership in ALTA as a Certified Academic Language Therapist (CALT). Program Details Mathematics Specialization Prospective Students Practicing educators who wish to advance their content knowledge or pedagogical skills for the purpose of teaching mathematics. Career and Personal Benefits Those who successfully complete the 4-course sequence will have the skills and knowledge to model effective mathematics instruction, translate evidence-based research into classroom teaching, differentiate with diverse learners, and instill creative problem solving. The program’s coursework can be applied to SMU’s M.Ed. degree. Program Details STEM Specialization Prospective Students Practicing educators who wish to advance their content knowledge or pedagogical skills for the purpose of teaching science, technology, engineering, and mathematics content. Career and Personal Benefits Those who successfully complete the program are equipped to be more effective STEM educators. Additionally, the program’s 4 courses can be applied to the requirements for SMU’s M.Ed. program. Program Details Teach for America Educator Preparation Program Prospective Students TFA-approved Corps Members who wish to pursue Texas teacher certification. Career and Personal Benefits Those who successfully complete the program are recommended to take the Texas State Board for Educator Certification exams, passing scores on which enable them to pursue teaching credentials. Additionally, the credits earned through participation in this program apply to the requirements for SMU’s M.Ed. degree. Program Details Urban Education Teaching Specialization Prospective Students Urban Education courses are most applicable for pre-service, in-service and other educators who serve diverse student populations, wish to cultivate a justice-oriented culturally responsive classroom environment, and/or are eager to learn relevant classroom and behavior management approaches. Career and Personal Benefits Educators who complete these courses can expect to acquire in-depth knowledge surrounding culturally responsive curriculum development, reducing student behavioral infractions, enhancing teacher-guardian and teacher-student relationships, and inevitably increasing student outcomes. Additionally, educators can expect to garner an all-encompassing historical context of urban education. Program Details Educational Studies Undergraduate Major Prospective Students Undergraduates who wish to become teachers. Career and Personal Benefits Successful graduates are recommended to take the Texas State Board for Educator Certification exams, passing scores on which enable them to pursue credentials for teaching careers in the private and public sectors, graduate work in the social sciences, and informal education paths in non-profit organizations. Program Details Teacher Education Semester Schedules Course Descriptions Admission Tuition and Scholarships Student Handbooks Faculty and Staff Student Job Opportunities VR Simulations Educator Preparation Program Request Information Upcoming Events Request info Contact the Department of Teaching & Learning Contact Us 214-768-2346 teacher@smu.edu Request Information Visit Us Harold Clark Simmons Hall 6401 Airline Rd., Suite 301 Dallas, TX 75205 Contact Us Maps and Directions Legal Disclosures © Southern Methodist University, PO Box 750100, Dallas, TX 75275 facebook twitter