Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. Learning Commons Learning Commons right arrow down arrow Schedule a Service Programs and Policies right arrow down arrow Academic Coaching right arrow down arrow Meet the Academic Coaches Academic Writing Center right arrow down arrow Meet the Tutors Graduate Tutoring Learning Assistants Learning Communities right arrow down arrow Peer Leader Program Current Peer Leaders Current Peer Leader Coordinators Math & Science Support Center Peer Facilitation right arrow down arrow Current Peer Facilitators Current Peer Facilitator Coordinators Peer Tutoring Success Skills Workshops right arrow down arrow Step by Step Guide to Register Success Skills Workshop Policies Success Skills Workshop Topics Supplemental Instruction right arrow down arrow SI Schedule Supplemental Review Sessions (MATH 1096) Learning Resources right arrow down arrow Note-Taking and Test Strategies right arrow down arrow The Cornell Method for Note-Taking Reading for Main Ideas vs. Details SQ4R: Getting the Most from Your Textbooks PLAN: An Active Reading Strategy How to Ace Your Finals Learning Styles and Study Habits right arrow down arrow Strategies for Aural Learners Strategies for Kinesthetic Learners Strategies for Visual Learners Writing Resources Business Writing Materials right arrow down arrow Resume Writing Tips Cover Letter Tips Memo Writing Tips First-Year Students right arrow down arrow First Semester Checklist Achieve Your Goal GPA Technology Skills Anxiety, Attitude, and Stress right arrow down arrow Managing Stress New Concentration Ideas Look at Your Classes to Find Your Passion Defining Your Career Goals Math Minute right arrow down arrow Math Minute - Algebra Math Minute - Calculus Online Learning Strategies Student Employment right arrow down arrow Academic Coaching Positions Academic Writing Center Positions Front Desk Assistant Positions Learning Assistant Positions Learning Community Peer Leader Positions Peer Facilitator Positions Peer Tutoring Positions Success Skills Workshop Positions Supplemental Instruction Leader Positions SRS Leader & MASS Tutor Positions Professional Staff Home » Campus Life » Learning Commons » Programs and Policies » Academic Writing Center Set Navigation title in component Academic Coaching Meet the Academic Coaches Academic Writing Center Meet the Tutors Graduate Tutoring Learning Assistants Learning Communities Peer Leader Program Current Peer Leaders Current Peer Leader Coordinators Math & Science Support Center Peer Facilitation Current Peer Facilitators Current Peer Facilitator Coordinators Peer Tutoring Success Skills Workshops Step by Step Guide to Register Success Skills Workshop Policies Success Skills Workshop Topics Supplemental Instruction SI Schedule Supplemental Review Sessions (MATH 1096) Academic Writing Center The Academic Writing Center is Open The AWC is currently open for appointments and tutor feedback submissions. You may make an appointment via the "Schedule an Appointment" button below. Summer Academic Writing Center Location and Hours: Monday-Thursday 11am-5pm 401N Langsam Library or online appointments In-person at UC Clifton campus and online appointments available Schedule an Appointment Submit for Feedback Meet the AWC Tutors Graduate Student Support The Academic Writing Center provides UC students with free writing assistance. Please note, Academic Writing Center appointments are offered both in-person and online. Students should make note of the location when they make an appointment. If you would like a trained writing tutor to help you get started on your writing assignment or review your writing, make an appointment or submit your paper for feedback. AWC Tutoring Services The Academic Writing Center offers in-person appointments as well as two online services for students: AWC Online and AWC Tutor Feedback. These services are accessible for all UC students, so read below to see which one is best for you. Be sure to check out more resources on our Writing Resources page. AWC In-Person AWC In-Person allows students to meet with AWC tutors in-person to work on their papers and projects. If you're meeting in-person, bring two printed copies (or send a digital copy to the AWC email), prompts and instructions from the professor, research materials (if applicable), and any questions or concerns about the draft. After scheduling the appointment, you will be emailed a confirmation notice for your appointment. At the time of your appointment, you will check in at the Front Desk in the AWC (Langsam 401N). Then, you will meet with an AWC tutor to discuss your work. AWC Online AWC Online allows students to video conference with AWC Tutors and work on their papers online and in real-time through Zoom. After scheduling the appointment, you will be emailed a link to an online video conference room. At the time of your appointment, ensure that you are in the video conference room to discuss your writing with your tutor. AWC Tutor Feedback With AWC Tutor Feedback, you can submit essays of six pages or less that are double-spaced, or three pages or less that are single-spaced, and one of the AWC tutors will review it, respond with helpful feedback, and email your draft back to you within 48 hours (potentially longer on weekends and around holidays). Please note that submissions will not be reviewed while the AWC is closed. Submit your essays via the feedback submission form. Our tutors will respond within 48 hours, or potentially longer on weekends and holidays. > Schedule an Appointment The best way to meet with a tutor is to schedule an appointment. Doing so secures your time with a specific tutor of your choosing. Please schedule an appointment by clicking the "schedule an appointment" button above or by phone at (513) 556-3912. AWC Philosophy Statement The Academic Writing Center (AWC) aims to promote a collaborative understanding of writing and composing practices. In working with our tutors, we hope students will view writing as a means of better understanding course content, critical thinking, innovation, creativity, and reflective practices. The AWC prioritizes student-directed composing practices, such as brainstorming, organizing, expanding, analyzing, or revising. However, the AWC is not an editing service—this means our tutors are specifically trained to focus on higher-order concerns such as clarity, cohesion, and critical thought, instead of grammatical correctness. The AWC tutors will work directly with the student text. During appointments, students will read their work aloud, collaborate with the pen or keyboard in hand, and engage in conversation with the tutor. Tutors will facilitate, guide, and assist, but they will not, and cannot, do the work for the student. Questions about the AWC? If you have any questions regarding the Academic Writing Center, please email acadwc@uc.edu or call the AWC Front Desk at (513) 556-3912. Learning Commons 2510B French Hall West 513-556-3244 Fax: 513-556-0823 learningcommons@uc.edu UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati Learning Commons 2510B French Hall West 513-556-3244 Fax: 513-556-0823 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top