Skip to content marquette.edu // Search // Contacts // A-Z Index Marquette UniversityOffice of Assessment Office of Assessment Assessment Stories Assessment Spotlight — Journalism Program Our assessment work this year has helped us think more "big picture" by asking questions about what our program is designed to do and whether it really does what we intend. This, in turn, has prompted us to reflect on where those skills and knowledge levels are taught and whether the experiences we are offering inside the classroom and through co-curricular opportunities are helping the students the way we intend... Read the Spotlight Assessment Resources What Is Assessment? Organizing the effective and efficient collection and interpretation of data (quantitative and/or qualitative) in ways that meaningfully inform and inevitably lead to changes to systems of teaching, learning and development designed to improve the impact of higher education on students’ lives. Click on the link to the right to learn more about the different components of assessment work at Marquette University. How to Engage in the Assessment Process Assessment Activity Calendar Statement on the Use of Program-Level Assessment Data ‏‏About the Office Assessment at Marquette Building on the mission of the institution and a commitment to student-centered practice, the Office of Assessment supports campus wide efforts to engage in the meaningful assessment of program- and institutional-level student learning in the search for truth, the discovery and sharing of knowledge, the fostering of personal and professional excellence, the promotion of a life of faith, and the development of leadership expressed in service to others. Office of Assessment Staff Impact Plan The mission, values and goals of the Marquette University Office of Assessment can be viewed in the Assessment Impact Plan. Contact Us Assessment at Marquette Building on the mission of the institution and a commitment to student-centered practice, the Office of Assessment at Marquette University supports campus wide efforts to engage in the meaningful assessment of program- and institutional-level student learning. The Office of Assessment advances: the search for truth the discovery and sharing of knowledge the fostering of personal and professional excellence the promotion of a life of faith and the development of leadership expressed in service to others. Please use the menus at the top of the page to navigate our content. Office of Assessment About Assessment Assessment Activity Calendar Assessment Process CONTACT Office of Assessment Raynor Memorial Libraries, 326H 1355 W. Wisconsin Ave. Milwaukee, WI 53233 (414) 288-6390 Contact Us PROBLEM WITH THIS WEBPAGE? Report an accessibility problem To report another problem, please contact nicholas.curtis@marquette.edu. Location Marquette University 1355 W. Wisconsin Ave. Milwaukee, WI 53233 Phone: (414) 288-6390 Key Resources Campus contacts Campus map Contact us Search marquette.edu eMarq CheckMarq D2L MyJob MARQUETTE A to Z ABCDEFGHIJKLM NOPQRSTUVWXYZ Privacy Policy Legal Disclaimer Non-Discrimination Policy Accessible Technology © 2022 Marquette University ©