Skip to main content Skip to main content my.SMU News & Events Library Master Calendar Skip to main content Apply Apply Give Give Contact Us Contact Us Follow Us Follow Us Facebook Follow Us Google+ Follow Us Twitter Follow Us LinkedIn Follow Us Tumblr Follow Us YouTube Follow Us Instagram Follow Us Social Stream Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. Navigate Search Social SMU Facebook SMU Google Plus SMU Twitter SMU LinkedIn SMU Tumblr SMU YouTube SMU Instagram Skip to main content Law About About Dean's Welcome Diversity and Inclusion Fast Facts Living & Studying in Dallas Why SMU Dedman Law? Academics Academics Academic Advising Academic Calendar Registrar's Office Academic Success Program (ASP) Bar Exam Resources Course Schedules and Registration Information Degree Programs Experiential Learning Externship Programs Forms Law Journals Planning Your Academic Program Study Abroad in Oxford Admissions Admissions Costs and Financial Aid FAQs J.D. Programs Graduate Programs How to Apply Meet Our Students Visiting SMU Virtual Tour of SMU Contact Admissions Alumni & Giving Alumni & Giving 2022 Alumni Happy Hours 2022 Reunion Weekend Alumni Chapters Career Services Class Notes Community Fellows Contact Alumni Relations Distinguished Alumni Awards Emerging Leader Board Executive Board Get Involved Law Firm Challenge Publications Update Alumni Information Career Services Career Services Students Employers Alumni Employment Statistics Career Services Team Contact Office of Career Services Reciprocity Centers & Initiatives Centers & Initiatives Jennifer M. Collins Women's Leadership Initiative Judge Elmo B. Hunter Legal Center For Victims of Crimes Against Women Robert B. Rowling Center for Business Law & Leadership Tsai Center for Law, Science and Innovation W. W. Caruth, Jr. Institute for Children's Rights Deason Criminal Justice Reform Center Clinics Clinics W.W. Caruth, Jr. Child Advocacy Clinic Civil/Consumer Clinic COVID-19 Legal Helpline Criminal Clinic Family Immigration Detention Clinic Federal Tax Clinic First Amendment Clinic Judge Elmo B. Hunter Legal Center for Victims of Crimes Against Women Innocence Clinic Patent Law Clinic Small Business and Trademark Clinic VanSickle Family Law Clinic Faculty Faculty Conferences, Symposia & Lecture Series Faculty Expertise Faculty in the News Faculty Profiles Research Public Service Public Service Completing Your Public Service Graduation Requirement Pre-Approved Placements Forms FAQs Planning a Public Service Career Internships & Fellowships Public Advocate Day Contact Public Service Program Staff Volunteer Income Tax Assistance (VITA) - Overview for law students only Students Students Office of Student Affairs Office of Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Financial Frequently Used Resources Graduation Information Inns of Court Program Mustang Exchange Scholarships and Writing Competitions Student Code of Professional Responsibility Student Organizations ☰ SMU Law Admissions Admissions You belong here. We are delighted you are considering SMU Dedman School of Law for your legal education. For nearly 100 years, this law school has trained women and men to be prominent lawyers in both business and law. The law school offers an exceptionally rich curriculum, opportunities for practical experience, all in a close-knit learning community and an environment of intellectual engagement and camaraderie. In addition to a bar examination, there are character, fitness, and other qualifications for admission to the bar in every U.S. jurisdiction. Applicants are encouraged to determine the requirements for any jurisdiction in which they intend to seek admission by contacting the jurisdiction. Addresses for all relevant agencies are available through the National Conference of Bar Examiners. You can find each state's requirements here. Apply Visit Request Info Give Now Admissions Costs and Financial Aid FAQs J.D. Programs Graduate Programs How to Apply Meet Our Students Visiting SMU Virtual Tour of SMU Contact Admissions Download brochure Living and Studying in Dallas Dallas has one of the nation's fastest growing economies, and is a true center of global commerce. Throughout the city are amazing restaurants, shopping centers, and entertainment and arts districts. With moderate weather, low cost of living, and year-round sports, it is a richly diverse city with true Southern hospitality. Learn more about living and studying in Dallas. #1 National Champions ABA Arbitration & 27th Annual Duberstein Moot Court Competition #1 Best Big City for Jobs in 2018 Forbes, 2018 #20 Most alumni promoted to partner during 2019 National Law Journal, March 2020 #33 Class of 2018 employment rate 10 months after graduation U.S. News Best Law Schools, March 2020 Why Dedman School of Law? We pride ourselves on a student body that is as rich and diverse as the courses it studies – one that brings their unique perspectives to the classroom. We invite you to learn more about becoming part of the distinguished group of individuals who have obtained a law degree from the SMU Dedman School of Law. For information, contact the Admissions Office or download our Admissions Brochure. Living in Dallas Opportunity and Growth Academics J.D. and Graduate Programs 10 Reasons to Attend Dedman School of Law Paying for Law School Costs and Financial Aid Meet our Students Bach Norwood Class of 2022 Enrico Hernandez Class of 2022 Melanie Griffin Class of 2022 Library Business Office Get Help Now News Media Emergency / Safety Admissions Office / FAQs Department Directory Consumer Information (ABA Required Disclosures) Contact Us Maps and Directions Legal Disclosures © SMU Dedman School of Law 3315 Daniel Avenue, Dallas, TX 75205 facebook google twitter linkedin tumblr youtube instagram