Skip to content Clemson University Clemson University Search Menu Close Sorry, your browser does not support inline SVG. Sorry, your browser does not support inline SVG. Apply Giving News Resources for Students Faculty & Staff Parents Alumni Clemson University Academics Forward Arrow Back Arrow Back Academics Home Employment Opportunities Apply for Admission Colleges College of Agriculture, Forestry and Life Sciences College of Architecture, Arts and Humanities College of Behavioral, Social and Health Sciences Wilbur O. and Ann Powers College of Business College of Education College of Engineering, Computing and Applied Sciences College of Science Graduate School Academic Resources Academic Calendar Registrar Division of Undergraduate Studies Center for Career and Professional Development Academic Success Center GRAD 360° Libraries Outside the Classroom PEER/WISE Call Me MISTER® Creative Inquiry and Undergraduate Research Cooperative Education University Professional Internship and Co-op Program (UPIC) Study Abroad Admissions Forward Arrow Back Arrow Back Admissions Home Schedule a Tour Apply for Admission Applying to Clemson First-Year Undergraduate Transfer Undergraduate International Undergraduate Graduate Students Academic Opportunities Majors Graduate Programs Online Graduate Programs Scholar Programs Paths to Graduate School Honors College Experiential Learning Financial Aid Tuition and Fee Calculator Undergraduate Financial Aid Graduate Fellowships and Awards Residency Requirements Campus Life Forward Arrow Back Arrow Back Campus Life Home Club Sports Brooks Center for the Performing Arts Join Your Clemson Family Finding Your Community Living-Learning Communities Student Veterans Multicultural Programs FIRST Army ROTC Air Force ROTC Services On Campus Housing & Dining Campus Recreation Parking and Transportation Student Health Services TigerOne Card Services Clemson Athletics Get Involved Clubs and Organizations Fraternity and Sorority Life Orientation Ambassadors Tiger Media Graduate Student Government Undergraduate Student Government Research Forward Arrow Back Arrow Back Research Home Clemson University Research Foundation (CURF) Division of Research Research Opportunities Student Research at Clemson Creative Inquiry Research Facilities Postdoctoral Affairs Serving South Carolina Through Research School of Health Research Public Service and Agriculture Clemson Experimental Forest Clemson Extension Clemson Research and Education Centers Public Service and Agriculture Research Farm Services Innovation and Economic Development Corporate Partnerships and Strategic Initiatives Clemson University International Center for Automotive Research (CU-ICAR) Clemson University Restoration Institute (CURI) Clemson University Biomedical Engineering Innovation Campus (CUBEInC) Center for Human Genetics Innovation Campus and Technology Park About Clemson Forward Arrow Back Arrow Back About Clemson Home Clemson News Clemson Athletics For Tigers Applying to Clemson Working at Clemson Traditions Military Heritage Things To Do in Clemson Visit Clemson Campus Resources Employment Opportunities Home and Garden Information Center Brand Guidelines CCIT Academic Calendar Training ClemsonForward Campus Leadership Board of Trustees President Academic Affairs and Provost Inclusion and Equity Student Affairs Faculty Senate Staff Senate Search Resources for Current Students Parents Faculty & Staff Alumni CU Honors College Academics Forward Arrow Academics Curriculum Tracks Forward Arrow Curriculum Tracks General Honors Departmental Honors Interdisciplinary Honors Back Arrow Back Honors Courses and Seminars Honors Graduation Back Arrow Back Admissions Forward Arrow Admissions First-Year Clemson Honors Students Enrolled Clemson Students Transfer Students Clemson Honors Student Ambassadors Schedule a Visit Newly Admitted Students Back Arrow Back Opportunities Forward Arrow Opportunities Intellectual Growth Forward Arrow Intellectual Growth Dixon Global Policy Scholars Dixon Fellows Program EUREKA! Summer Program for Research Interns Back Arrow Back Professional Development Forward Arrow Professional Development Professional Development Opportunities Employer Networking Back Arrow Back Travel Forward Arrow Travel Conference Travel Grants Christopher J. Duckenfield Scholars Program Educational Enrichment Travel Grants London Internship Program Summer 2022 Mini Grants Back Arrow Back Honors Center Honors Residential College Grants Breakthrough Scholars Program Back Arrow Back Student Support Forward Arrow Student Support Honors Advising Peer Mentors SASH Wellness Ambassadors Connections Welcome Week Back Arrow Back About Forward Arrow About Honors Faculty and Staff Departmental Honors Contacts Honors College Advisory Board Honors Student Advisory Board Inclusive Excellence COVID-19 Information Back Arrow Back Resources Forward Arrow Resources Faculty Forward Arrow Faculty Create an Honors Course Honors Faculty Award Back Arrow Back Alumni School Counselors Parents Back Arrow Back Apply Giving News Sikes Hall Icon Main Menu Forward Arrow Icon Back Arrow Icon Back Clemson University Academics Academics Home Employment Opportunities Apply for Admission Colleges College of Agriculture, Forestry and Life Sciences College of Architecture, Arts and Humanities College of Behavioral, Social and Health Sciences Wilbur O. and Ann Powers College of Business College of Education College of Engineering, Computing and Applied Sciences College of Science Graduate School Academic Resources Academic Calendar Registrar Division of Undergraduate Studies Center for Career and Professional Development Academic Success Center GRAD 360° Libraries Outside the Classroom PEER/WISE Call Me MISTER® Creative Inquiry and Undergraduate Research Cooperative Education University Professional Internship and Co-op Program (UPIC) Study Abroad Admissions Admissions Home Schedule a Tour Apply for Admission Applying to Clemson First-Year Undergraduate Transfer Undergraduate International Undergraduate Graduate Students Academic Opportunities Majors Graduate Programs Online Graduate Programs Scholar Programs Paths to Graduate School Honors College Experiential Learning Financial Aid Tuition and Fee Calculator Undergraduate Financial Aid Graduate Fellowships and Awards Residency Requirements Campus Life Campus Life Home Club Sports Brooks Center for the Performing Arts Join Your Clemson Family Finding Your Community Living-Learning Communities Student Veterans Multicultural Programs FIRST Army ROTC Air Force ROTC Services On Campus Housing & Dining Campus Recreation Parking and Transportation Student Health Services TigerOne Card Services Clemson Athletics Get Involved Clubs and Organizations Fraternity and Sorority Life Orientation Ambassadors Tiger Media Graduate Student Government Undergraduate Student Government Research Research Home Clemson University Research Foundation (CURF) Division of Research Research Opportunities Student Research at Clemson Creative Inquiry Research Facilities Postdoctoral Affairs Serving South Carolina Through Research School of Health Research Public Service and Agriculture Clemson Experimental Forest Clemson Extension Clemson Research and Education Centers Public Service and Agriculture Research Farm Services Innovation and Economic Development Corporate Partnerships and Strategic Initiatives Clemson University International Center for Automotive Research (CU-ICAR) Clemson University Restoration Institute (CURI) Clemson University Biomedical Engineering Innovation Campus (CUBEInC) Center for Human Genetics Innovation Campus and Technology Park About Clemson About Clemson Home Clemson News Clemson Athletics For Tigers Applying to Clemson Working at Clemson Traditions Military Heritage Things To Do in Clemson Visit Clemson Campus Resources Employment Opportunities Home and Garden Information Center Brand Guidelines CCIT Academic Calendar Training ClemsonForward Campus Leadership Board of Trustees President Academic Affairs and Provost Inclusion and Equity Student Affairs Faculty Senate Staff Senate Search close CU Honors College Academics show submenu for Academics Curriculum Tracks show submenu for Curriculum Tracks General Honors Departmental Honors Interdisciplinary Honors Honors Courses and Seminars Honors Graduation Admissions show submenu for Admissions First-Year Clemson Honors Students Enrolled Clemson Students Transfer Students Clemson Honors Student Ambassadors Schedule a Visit Newly Admitted Students Opportunities show submenu for Opportunities Intellectual Growth show submenu for Intellectual Growth Dixon Global Policy Scholars Dixon Fellows Program EUREKA! Summer Program for Research Interns Professional Development show submenu for Professional Development Professional Development Opportunities Employer Networking Travel show submenu for Travel Conference Travel Grants Christopher J. Duckenfield Scholars Program Educational Enrichment Travel Grants London Internship Program Summer 2022 Mini Grants Honors Center Honors Residential College Grants Breakthrough Scholars Program Student Support show submenu for Student Support Honors Advising Peer Mentors SASH Wellness Ambassadors Connections Welcome Week About show submenu for About Honors Faculty and Staff Departmental Honors Contacts Honors College Advisory Board Honors Student Advisory Board Inclusive Excellence COVID-19 Information Resources show submenu for Resources Faculty show submenu for Faculty Create an Honors Course Honors Faculty Award Alumni School Counselors Parents Clemson Home CU Honors College Opportunities Travel Current: Conference Travel Grants Conference Travel Grants Support for Conference Travel Students attending or presenting at professional academic conferences may request Conference Travel Grant (CTG) funds to register for and travel to the events. The CTG is intended to provide financial support to students in the Clemson University Honors college planning to attend, or present at, professional academic conferences. Students may apply for a maximum of two Conference Travel Grants in one fiscal year. In order for your application to be considered, you must have submitted your application two weeks prior to the start date of the conference. For more information about eligibility and approved expenses please read the CTG Guidelines. COVID-19 Restrictions Due to ongoing travel restrictions as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic, conference travel will only be permitted if it is essential. In general, attending a conference (without any more specific involvement) will not be considered essential travel unless you are presenting in-person, or attending virtually Eligibility Applicants must be current Honors students in good standing at the time of application, and at the time of attending the conference. Conference Travel Grant applications must be submitted two weeks prior to the conference start date. Applications submitted after that date must be submitted with a justification for the delay and will be considered on a case-by-case basis. Applications submitted after the conference has ended will not be considered. Conferences must apply to a student’s academic interests, and be a professional academic conference. Unprofessional conferences or events of a social nature will not be considered. To be eligible of a full grant of up to $500, applicants must have submitted a proposal that has been accepted for presentation at a professional educational conference. Applicants must attach their invitation to present at the conference with their Travel Grant application, or have a valid reason as to why this cannot be provided at that time. The application will not be considered without an invitation to present sent at least two weeks prior to the conference start date. Students who plan to attend a professional educational conference but will not make a presentation may be eligible for a partial grant of up to $300. Students planning to attend International conferences (excluding Canada) may be eligible for additional funding of up to $1000. Additional funding will be awarded on a case-by-case basis and will require approval from the Executive Director of the Honors College. Under no circumstances will students be reimbursed for meals above the State and domestic per diem rate. Please be aware the Honors College has limited funds and may not be able to fund all requests. We encourage students to seek additional support from other sources. Requests for funding may be denied or withdrawn by the Honors College if any of the above conditions are not satisfied, or if the applicant’s standing in the Honors College comes into question. Students may apply for a maximum of two Conference Travel Grants in one fiscal year. This spans from July 1st to June 30th. For conferences that span the fiscal year, the start date of the conference will be used to determine eligibility. Approved Expenses Students may be reimbursed for the following expenses: Conference Registration Fees. Lodging – cost of room in hotel, motel, dormitory, or conference center and related taxes. Charges for television, phones, movies or other services will not be reimbursed. Food – the cost of all meals will be reimbursed in accordance with Clemson University policy at a rate no greater than the applicable per diem rate. Transportation Public carrier – cost of plane, train, or bus ticket Personal vehicle – the cost of use of a personal vehicle will be reimbursed in the amount of 15 cents per mile. Carpooling is encouraged. Application Requirements A completed application will consist of: Application form Letter of acceptance of presentation proposal from sponsoring conference, or invitation to present at sponsoring conference (where applicable) Letter of support from a Clemson Faculty member. Complete the application. NOTE: Applicants for either a full or partial grant must have a recommendation letter from a Clemson faculty member uploaded to the ADMIT system before the application can be considered. Submitting Expenses All applications must be submitted online through the ADMIT portal. Supplemental documentation should be uploaded to the ADMIT portal two weeks prior to the start date of the conference. To submit conference expenses, you must complete the Student Conference Expenditure form and upload it with your receipts to the ADMIT portal. Please upload your receipts and the completed expenditure form to the Applicant Facing Checklist section of your ADMIT application. You must also set up TigerPay if you plan to receive funds from the Honors College (see accordion below). We are not able to process transactions in any other way. TigerPay Instructions (Please Read) You MUST set up TigerPay to receive your funds Honors students must register with TigerPay in order to receive funds from the Honors College. This directive includes all reimbursements and grants – travel, conference, research, etc. Registering for TigerPay allows the Clemson Honors College to reimburse and distribute grant funds by putting the funds directly into your bank account. These funds include Honors-related pre-approved purchases and grants, such as Educational Enrichment Travel Grants and Conference Travel Grants. Important Tips: If you use a “g.clemson.edu” email address, you need to drop the “g” when linking the email address to your bank. After you tap the link above, you choose your bank and depending on what bank you use, the instructions are different. With TD, for example: Log into your online banking account Go to transfers and find the tab that says “send money with Zelle” Make sure you use your Clemson email with no “g,” and your personal cell number (not home) in order to register The part of the registration process that links you to Clemson is your email address. This enables Zelle to be used for money transferring. Once Clemson puts money into your account, (through Zelle) you will receive an email from Zelle notifying you. You will not receive any notifications until there is money put into your account. If you do not have a bank that is listed, you will have to choose that option and provide more information than students who do have a bank listed. If you encounter issues, please call customer support at 1-866-839-3488. You may contact Jenny Wirtz in the Clemson Honors Business Office for questions related directly to the Honors College. But we can not answer questions related to setting up your TigerPay account. Please call their support number (above) about setting up your TigerPay account. Find Out More Contact Holly Williams at hpeasgo@clemson.edu for program details. Apply for a Conference Travel Grant Submit your expenses via ADMIT “ “The Conference Travel Grant allowed for me and three other honors students to present at a national honors conference in Orlando, Florida. Without the help of the Clemson Honors College, our attendance would never have been possible. The great staff of the Honors College made it easy to understand the application process and were available to help answer my many questions. Thanks to the CTG, my team and I were able to present research on breast cancer to other students and scholars from all around the country.” Savannah Finley Animal and Veterinary Sciences Major ('21) Clemson University Facebook Instagram Twitter Linkedin Youtube Tiktok Policy/Terms of Use Web Accessibility Ethics/Safety Hotline Privacy Policy Copyright © 2022 Clemson University • Clemson, South Carolina 29634 Clemson University Facebook Instagram Twitter Linkedin Youtube Tiktok Resources A-Z Index Campus Map CU Safety Directory Webcams Apply to Clemson