Skip to main content University of Nebraska–Lincoln Visit Visit Visit the University of Nebraska–Lincoln Apply Apply Apply to the University of Nebraska–Lincoln Give Give Give to the University of Nebraska–Lincoln Log In Search Search Form Search Submit Close About Lincoln Menu Search Log In About Lincoln Work City / Services Jobs Transportation Live Culture & Support Schools / Child Care Real Estate Religion Green Living Shopping Play Performing Arts / Film Museums And Galleries Recreation Nightlife Dining Sports Youth / Family Gameday Parking Campus Attractions Visit Visit the University of Nebraska–Lincoln Apply Apply to the University of Nebraska–Lincoln Give Give to the University of Nebraska–Lincoln Nebraska About Lincoln About Lincoln Lincoln has a flourishing business community and is the home of state government. Learn more... The cost of living in Lincoln is low, and our public schools are among the nation's best. Learn more... Lincoln is friendly and fun and has more parkland per capita than all but a few U.S. cities. Learn more... See Why We Love Life in Lincoln The University of Nebraska-Lincoln is located in a vibrant and safe city of nearly 300,000 people that has many of the cultural and entertainment benefits of a much larger city, with the feel of a friendly Midwestern community. More parkland in Lincoln, Nebraska than (just about) anywhere else With more parkland per capita than Austin, Portland and all but a handful of U.S. cities, an extensive (and growing) bike trail network, many and diverse employment opportunities and a low cost of living, Lincoln is one of the fastest growing metro areas in the Midwest. Business and Industry in Lincoln, Nebraska Lincoln also has a flourishing business community and is the home of Nebraska's state government. Lincoln boasts a highly educated workforce that is very attractive to business expansion and new business development. Leading industries are: education government health care banking insurance Tech and other Growth Areas in Lincoln, Nebraska Lincoln also has a growing technology sector. Agriculture and manufacturing are also key employers. The Nebraska Innovation Campus promises new tech sector jobs in the future. Airport in Lincoln and nearby in Omaha The Lincoln Municipal Airport is located 10 minutes from downtown, with more flights available at Omaha's Eppley Airfield, just 50 miles away. Top 10 Reasons You'll Love Lincoln #3 U.S. City, Quality of Life (NerdWallet, 2017) Lincoln Public Schools was ranked 2nd in quality of education in an eight-state area of the Midwest. In fact, Lincoln maintains the 4th highest percentage of graduating high school seniors in the nation. #9 Best Places to Live (Livability.com 2019) #1 in America's Healthiest Small Cities (Daily Finance 2014) Nebraska U named one of America's Best Large Employers (Forbes, 2018) 7th best city for college students (among cities with 250,000–1,000,000 residents) (American Institute for Economic Research, 2015) Lincoln's health care costs are among the lowest in the nation and according to a study by Milliman & Robertson, Inc., Nebraska businesses pay among the lowest in employee-paid insurance coverage. Best Cities of 2016 (Smart Asset, 2016) Bicycle Friendly Community (The League of American Bicyclists, 2016) Top 20 - America's Thriving Cities (The Daily Beast, 2013) University of Nebraska-Lincoln 1400 R Street Lincoln, NE 68588 402-472-7211 Related Links Huskers.com Alumni Association Campus Links Directory Employment Events Libraries Maps News Office of the Chancellor Report an Incident Policies & Reports Accessibility Statement Emergency Planning and Preparedness Institutional Equity and Compliance Notice of Nondiscrimination Privacy Policy Security and Fire Safety Report Student Information Disclosures UNL web framework and quality assurance provided by the Web Developer Network · QA Test University of Nebraska–Lincoln Established 1869 · Copyright 2022 Some parts of this site work best with JavaScript enabled.