Covid-19: Get the latest updates here Apply to JTS Contact Campus Life Alumni Get Email Updates Donate Now Search About Higher Education Emergency Relief Fund Leadership History JTS and Israel Conservative Judaism Offices & Resources Policies Accreditation Visit JTS Admissions List College Admissions Davidson School Admissions Rabbinical School Admissions Gershon Kekst Graduate School Admissions H. L. Miller Cantorial School Admissions Take a Virtual Tour Academics Academics School List College The William Davidson School The Rabbinical School The Gershon Kekst Graduate School H. L. Miller Cantorial School Faculty & Scholars Faculty & Scholars Center & Institutes Center for Pastoral Education Block / Kolker Center for Spiritual Arts The Hendel Center for Ethics and Justice Milstein Center for Interreligious Dialogue Louis Finkelstein Institute for Religious & Social Studies Research Institutes Summer Programs Nishma Summer Sessions Summer Hebrew Language Courses Professional Training Professional Training CONTINUING EDUCATION FOR CLERGY The Rabbinic Training Institute (RTI) Summer Rabbinic Learning Conference Online Learning for Rabbis and Cantors FOR JEWISH EDUCATORS Day School Leadership Training Institute (DSLTI) Jewish Early Childhood Education Leadership Institute (JECELI) Ivriyon: Hebrew Immersion Institute for Day School Educators Jewish Day School Standards and Benchmarks FOR OTHER PROFESSIONALS NAASE Week of Study Community Learning Community Learning ONLINE Live Online Classes JTS Torah Online BEYOND THE CAMPUS JTS Learning in Your Community Courses and Curricula LEARNING EVENTS Public Lectures and Events FOR 8TH-12TH GRADERS Prozdor Teen Learning Library About The Library Letter from the Librarian Library Services The New JTS Library Library Programs and Events Library Online Exhibits Special Collections JTS Library Membership Email a Librarian News & Events News Events Academic Calendar About Policies Policies Legal Notices This page includes legal notices along with summaries and links to important policies of the Jewish Theological Seminary of America (JTS), although it is not intended to be comprehensive. A more comprehensive list of policies applicable to members of the JTS community is available at MyJTS. JTS Non-Discrimination and Anti-Harassment Policy The Jewish Theological Seminary (“JTS”) is committed to the principle that discrimination and harassment will not be tolerated in the JTS community. All members of the JTS community must be able to work and study in an atmosphere that discourages discrimination and harassment by individuals, including colleagues, supervisors, teachers, and peers. This principle applies in areas including employment practices, personnel policies, financial assistance, educational programs, activities, and housing matters. It applies equally to faculty, staff, students, and applicants for admission and employment, as well as all visitors, invitees, vendors, contractors, consultants, and others who visit or do business with JTS. Read the policy here. Discrimination, Harassment, and Sexual Misconduct Policy and Processes Training for Hearing Officers View the slideshow presentation for the Discrimination, Harassment, and Sexual Misconduct Policy and Processes Training for Hearing Officers here. (Note: this training was held prior to subsequent administrative and legal developments impacting certain provisions of Title IX. Please see JTS’s Non-Discrimination and Anti-Harassment Policy for the current version.) Copyright and Intellectual Property All graphics, photographs, and text appearing on the JTS website are protected by copyright. Redistribution or commercial use is prohibited without express written permission. Use of the name, logos, and other marks of The Jewish Theological Seminary is subject to the written consent of JTS. Disability Accommodation In accordance with Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 and the Americans with Disabilities Act, JTS is committed to providing: i) equal access to educational resources to qualified students with physical or mental disabilities; and ii) reasonable accommodations to qualified employees. For more information, see: Students with Disabilities. Institutional Integrity (Whistleblower) The Jewish Theological Seminary of America (“JTS”) has a responsibility to manage its resources wisely, in a manner consistent with the law, and in accordance with the JTS’s stated purposes. JTS has put in place operating procedures and internal controls that are intended to enable JTS to conduct its operations in accordance with these obligations and to detect, deter, or prevent improper activities. However, intentional and unintentional violations of laws, regulations, policies, and procedures may occur and may constitute improper or unlawful activities. JTS has a responsibility to investigate any reports of improper or illegal conduct, and to take action where necessary to remedy a problem and prevent reoccurrence. In certain circumstances JTS will report allegations of improper activities to the appropriate parties, and will also report the resolution of any investigation. Investigations will be conducted with discretion and the information obtained made available only on a “need to know” basis. Matters that should be reported under this policy include suspected fraud, theft, embezzlement, accounting or auditing irregularities, bribery, kickbacks, misuse of JTS assets, or suspected regulatory, compliance, or ethics-related issues, concerns, or violations. Reporting violations of JTS’s applicable human resources policies, problems with coworkers or managers, or issues related to alleged employment discrimination or sexual or other form of unlawful harassment should be dealt with in accordance with JTS’s Human Resources Policies or its Policy on Discrimination and Sexual Harassment. It is the responsibility of every employee to report any suspected incidents of improper or illegal activity and violations of significant JTS policies and procedures. An employee should also report any situation where the employee believes he or she has been directed to engage in conduct or activity that would result in a violation of law. These reports should be factual and contain as much specific information as possible. An employee should report these concerns promptly to JTS’s General Counsel or another appropriate senior administrator. If an employee is concerned about making a report, the employee may make the report anonymously, but this often hampers the ability to conduct a full investigation. Reports may be made orally to the General Counsel, Keath Blatt, by email to him at keblatt@jtsa.edu, or by placing a written report (marked “confidential”) in his internal mailbox, Box No. 77. In following up on a report, the General Counsel or his/her representative may ask for additional information, so the employee should provide contact information. An employee filing a complaint concerning a violation or suspected violation of the standards noted above must act in good faith and have reasonable grounds for believing the information disclosed may indicate a violation of such standards. JTS recognizes its responsibility to protect from retaliation employees who, in good faith, report allegations of improper or illegal conduct at JTS or by JTS personnel. In the event an employee believes retaliation is occurring, or s/he is being pressured not to report improper or illegal activity, the employee should promptly advise the General Counsel or another senior administrator. Anyone who engages in retaliation or acts to frustrate the intent of this policy will be subject to discipline. An employee who is found to have acted in an improper or illegal manner, or, conversely, does not act in good faith under this policy, will also be subject to discipline up to and including termination. If any member of the JTS staff has any questions or seeks additional information about this policy, please contact the General Counsel at 212-678-8804 or keblatt@jtsa.edu. Campus Security and Crime Awareness Report The Jeanne Clery Disclosure of Campus Security Policy and Campus Crime Statistics Act, known as the Clery Act, requires The Jewish Theological Seminary to report the number of alleged crimes and/or arrests and fires reported to JTS or law enforcement officials for the preceding three calendar years. The definitions of the offenses used for compiling these statistics, by law, must be those of the Federal Bureau of Investigation Uniform Crime Reporting system. The Jewish Theological Seminary of America Annual Campus Security & Fire Safety Report can be accessed here. Paper copies are available at the Office of Student Life and the Office of Human Resources. The campus crime statistics are filed annually with the US Department of Education and may be accessed on its website at http://ope.ed.gov/security. Any questions about these statistics should be directed to the Office of General Counsel at (212) 678-8804. Legal Disclaimer Information on JTS’s web pages is provided “as is” without warranty of any kind, either express or implied, including, but not limited to, the implied warranties of merchantability, fitness for a particular purpose, and non-infringement. In no event will JTS be liable for damages of any kind, including without limitation any special, indirect, incidental, or consequential damages, even if JTS has been advised of the possibility of such damages. Although every effort is made to ensure the accuracy of information submitted for publication on JTS web pages, this website may inadvertently contain technical inaccuracies or typographical errors. Information may be changed or updated without notice. JTS also reserves the right to make changes to the programs and policies described on its website at any time without notice. JTS assumes no responsibility for errors or omissions on its website or in documents that are referenced by or linked to this website. Responsibility for the content of personal home pages resides solely with the author(s). The views and opinions expressed on student and faculty personal pages are strictly the views and opinions of the authors and are not approved or sanctioned by JTS. JTS will not impose any restraints on, nor make any effort to monitor the content of, communications other than those imposed by applicable federal, state, or local laws, including laws regarding the right to privacy and laws which prohibit defamatory material. JTS accepts no responsibility for the content of personal web pages. General Grievance General Grievance Procedures Any person who believes that JTS policies or procedures either do not conform to applicable laws or are contrary to its own published standards, and whose complaint is outside the scope of other available hearing bodies, may request consideration of the matter as outlined below: In most situations, the person should consult the appropriate dean or the director of Human Resources, who will assist the person in approaching the appropriate faculty member, department head or supervisor. If the matter is not resolved to the satisfaction of the complainant, he/she may present a written statement to the vice chancellor/chief operating officer who will determine whether he can assist in the resolution of the matter. Student Complaint Process Any student who has a complaint with respect to eligible programs, requirements, or other grievances at JTS, and the complaint cannot be resolved informally, as outlined in the General Grievance Procedures above, or which is not covered by other applicable hearing bodies, may file a formal written complaint with the vice chancellor/chief operating officer. Any complaints so filed shall be investigated and resolved, if possible, within ninety days, when a final determination shall be made and communicated to the student. If the vice chancellor is directly involved in the alleged problem, a complaint may be filed with the provost. Any questions as to whether the vice chancellor is directly involved in a problem shall be directed to the Office of Counsel for determination. No adverse action shall be taken against any student filing such a complaint, as long as such complaints are filed in good faith, and with reasonable assurance of the accuracy of the facts. New York State Complaint Procedure Any student who cannot obtain redress for a complaint through the general grievance procedures outlined above may refer such complaint to the State of New York. Procedures for filing a complaint with New York State are outlined here. Privacy Policy The Jewish Theological Seminary (JTS) respects the privacy of people who visit or use jtsa.edu. The JTS website uses software by Act-On Software, Inc., which collects the email addresses and certain personally identifiable information when people email us or register to open an account. Act-On also collects certain information about which pages users visit, as well as information they give us (as through surveys or site registrations). For more information, please visit https://www.act-on.com/privacy-policy-summary/ and see the headings “How we collect data and what we do with it” and “How we comply with regulations.” By using this website, you consent to the collection and use of information by JTS for the purpose of your enrollment in programs offered through JTS. You may choose to change your subscription preferences or to stop receiving our newsletter or marketing emails by following the unsubscribe instructions included in these emails. In accordance with the Children’s Online Privacy Protection Act of 1998 (“COPPA”), JTS does not knowingly collect any personally identifiable information from children under the age of 13. In the event that we determine that a user of this site is under the age of 13, we will not maintain or use his or her personally identifiable information. We will then delete any such personally identifiable information from our records. Credit Card Solicitation JTS prohibits any unauthorized commercial activity on its campus, including the advertising, marketing, or merchandising of credit cards to students. Emergency Closing JTS follows the New York City public school system when deciding to close in inclement weather. If the New York City public schools are closed due to weather, JTS will be closed. There may be a rare occurrence when we decide to close because of a severe storm or other emergency, even though the city schools remain open. Additionally, there may be times when the New York City schools are already closed, for example, during holidays. In order to make this information available to you during such occurrences, JTS maintains a phone line that will play a recorded message beginning at 6:00 a.m. in the event of a closing. That number is (212) 678-8898. Should you get a repeated busy signal due to a heavy volume of calls, you may also phone the Security desk at (212) 678-8087. In the event that JTS closes due to inclement weather, an announcement to that effect will appear on the homepage of the JTS website, at www.jtsa.edu. Smoking In accordance with New York City law, smoking is prohibited in all areas of the residence halls and in and adjacent to all JTS buildings. This includes classrooms, restrooms, lobbies, hallways, elevators, lounges, private offices, the courtyard, the moadon, and the dining room. Smoking is not permitted in any outside areas contiguous to JTS buildings. Compliance with the provisions of this policy is expected of the entire JTS community, as well as any visitors to JTS. Smoking in a prohibited area may subject the violator to a civil or criminal penalty under the law and/or disciplinary action by JTS. Persons who refuse to extinguish smoking material upon request, or who persist in smoking in a prohibited area, will be reported to the Security Office, or, in the case of smoking in a JTS residence, the Office of Residence Life. JTS reserves the right to dismiss resident students from housing for continued violations of this policy. In case of a dispute arising under this smoking policy, the health concerns of the nonsmoking party shall be accorded priority. Any disputes may be referred in writing to the Director of Residence Life, if the dispute involves the residence halls, or the Director of Human Resources, for all other disputes; the appropriate director will investigate and resolve the matter. There will be no retaliatory or other adverse action taken against any person who asserts his/her rights under the Smoke-Free Air Acts. There can be severe penalties for violating the law. The Department of Health may fine JTS and/or the individual up to $2,000 for each violation. SHARE THIS PAGE RESOURCES Current Students Faculty & Scholars CONNECT WITH US Get Email Updates Visit Give Social Media © The Jewish Theological Seminary All Rights Reserved | בית המדרש ללימודי יהדות 3080 Broadway, New York, NY 10027 Privacy Policy x Share This Page From Name(Required) From Email(Required) To Email(Required) Message