Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Apply Visit Give Information For Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff Search BC.edu Links HR Menu Main Nav HR How can we help you? Back Back Close About Overview Meet Our Staff Departments Directions Related Links Office for Institutional Diversity Office of Employee Development Compensation Office Health & Well-being Work at BC Overview Benefits at a Glance Apply for a Staff Position Job Fairs Mission Videos Policies & Forms Overview HR Forms BC Holiday Schedule Emergency Closing Notary Locations Protection of Minors Required State & Federal Workplace Notifications Related Links Employee Handbook Title IX Federal & State Laws Programs & Events Caring for Our People How can we help you? Close Directory A to Z Listing Search Human Resources Search BC.edu Find pages or people Search Close Close Apply Visit Give Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close Compensation Office Home About Compensation Office Overview Boston College's compensation and performance management programs are designed to attract and retain qualified individuals and to motivate them to perform at a high level. The Compensation Office conducts ongoing assessments of relevant external markets and establishes pay policies and practices that reflect a competitive position in those markets. On an individual basis, salaries reflect employees' qualifications, skills, performance, competitiveness with the appropriate market, and internal equity. Boston College offers competitive salaries combined with best-in-class benefits, generous paid time-off, access to education and professional development, and a dynamic campus experience with abundant cultural and recreational opportunities, forming a highly attractive total rewards package. Services Our Team The Compensation Office provides the following services: Design, implementation, and administration of compensation and performance management programs which includes the annual merit review process and the establishment of competitive hiring ranges Competitive market analyses through participation in salary surveys and analyses of external data Job documentation, analysis and classification of staff positions to ensure compliance with the Fair Labor Standards Act (FLSA) and Massachusetts Equal Pay Act Consultation on organizational and job design Jeremy Brault Director 617-552-1353 jeremiah.brault@bc.edu Caroline Cullen Senior Compensation Analyst 617-552-1356 caroline.cullen@bc.edu Jennifer Parsons Compensation & Position Administrator 617-552-3184 jennifer.parsons@bc.edu Josiah Gonzales Senior Compensation & HR Data Analyst 617-552-3183 josiah.gonzales@bc.edu Job Classification Overview The Boston College compensation program utilizes a classification system in which each job is reviewed based on information provided in a role description. The analysis of a job considers requirements such as knowledge of the area, problem-solving, organizational breadth, accountability, and required skills and experience. This information is evaluated in the context of internal equity and competitiveness with the appropriate job market. Based on the results of this analysis, each position is assigned an appropriate market reference point (MRP). The job classification process is initiated for: the creation of a new position a significant change (increase or decrease) in the key responsibilities of a position Print Fair Labor Standards Act (FLSA) Fair Labor Standards Act (FLSA) Positions are reviewed for eligibility for overtime compensation based on the Fair Labor Standards Act, a federal law that specifies what types of positions are eligible ("non-exempt") and what types are not eligible ("exempt") for overtime pay. At Boston College, non-exempt positions are on the weekly payroll and exempt employees are on the monthly payroll. Role Descriptions Role Descriptions The Role Description form is used to summarize the scope and key responsibilities of a position. The Role Description should accurately describe all aspects of the position and how it meets the business needs of the department/school. If a job has changed significantly and it warrants a review for possible reclassification, managers should work directly with their division/school head and/or HR partner before documentation is submitted to the Compensation Office. The Role Description serves the following purposes: is the primary tool used for job classification is used to properly analyze a new or revised position in order to assign a market reference point and determine its eligibility for overtime compensation serves as a recruiting tool helps to ensure that an employee and his/her supervisor have a mutual understanding of the position serves as a tool for the performance appraisal process helps to define and identify training needs assists with career development Performance Management Program Overview of BC's Performance Management Program The Compensation and Employee Development Offices have created the following presentation as a resource to guide managers and employees through the Performance Management Program: PowerPoint Presentation S.M.A.R.T. Goals Guidelines Goals must align with and support University and/or department goals. To have the greatest impact, limit the number of goals for the coming year. Goals should be SMART: Specific Measurable Attainable Relevant Time specific Establish a clear action plan to achieve each goal: Action plans should include specific expected results and a target date for completion. S.M.A.R.T. Goal Examples Not-So-SMART Goals SMART Goals Improve the effectiveness of my written communication Read On Writing Well by William Zinsler by January 2012. Improve the effectiveness of my written communication Receive progressively fewer manager edits and rewrites to my memos; track progress and review samples with my manager every 6 weeks. Learn Excel Find an Excel class and attend. Begin using skills learned in setting up Excel spreadsheets, and follow up with others who have more Excel experience. Print Yearly Calendar for Performance Management Program This calendar serves only as a suggested time frame. Your department's schedule may require that these activities take place at a different time during the year. February - March Departmental meeting regarding goals for the year ahead Review of work unit's objectives and activities Review employee's job description Role Description Form March - April Formal performance appraisal meeting between supervisor and employee Supervisor/Employee agree on work goals and professional development goals Supervisor/Employee agree on which performance attributes/competencies will require focus over the next year Appraisal form completed and signed Approval forms and merit increment recommendations to Department of Human Resources April - October Ongoing supervisor/employee discussions regarding progress made towards work goals and professional development goals October - December Half-year check point: A scheduled meeting between supervisor/employee Discuss performance Review/revise work goals and professional development goals as needed November - February Ongoing supervisor/employee discussions regarding progress made towards work goals and professional development goals University-wide Competencies The University-wide performance attributes/competencies describe what effective performance looks like at Boston College. They are used throughout the performance management process and apply to all employees. Along with these attributes/competencies, employee performance must support the unique mission of Boston College as reflected in our Ignatian tradition described below. By upholding this tradition, the values of the University are strengthened. Ignatian Tradition As reflected in our University mission and in employees' demonstration of the performance attributes/competencies. Demonstrates a professional and personal care for others: colleagues, staff, faculty, students. Demonstrates a willingness to work with others, to promote the common good of the operation and to take responsibility for the services that the department provides. Demonstrates a willingness to develop new skills and to contribute to the development of the entire operation. Demonstrates a social concern for others and accepts that he/she represents the value of the University to the wider community. Demonstrates a willingness to learn more about the founding values of Boston College and how these influence the vision today. Big-picture Perspective Responds to major issues, challenges, and opportunities facing the University Demonstrates understanding of University mission, structure, culture, and constituencies Demonstrates knowledge of own department's work activities and mission; understands how own job impacts work of department Considers financial impact to the University of own work activities and decisions Openness to Change Responds positively to changes in the University and the workplace Initiates and/or incorporates new work methods, processes, and technology Demonstrates flexibility in responding to work demands Valuing Diversity Promotes work environment that values diversity and supports appropriate behaviors in others Demonstrates respect for the opinions and beliefs of others Demonstrates commitment to University's Affirmative Action goals Productivity Focuses on work activities that add value to University and department; works to eliminate work activities that do not add value Uses resources (people, time, materials) in cost-effective manner to achieve work objectives Plans and organizes work effectively Accepts accountability for job performance and results Applying Technology Learns and uses technology applications that improve productivity Acts as coach (as appropriate) to help others learn new technology applications Rethinks work activities to incorporate new technologies Secures data appropriately Decision Making & Problem Solving Makes and/or facilitates decisions considering impact on others and/or the University Reaches sound decisions and exercises good judgment based on balanced consideration of facts, priorities, and alternatives Makes decisions in agreed-upon time frame; takes initiatives to identify and resolve problems Demonstrates ability to examine existing problems/issues in new ways Customer Focus Understands role of "customers" in University environment Understands and responds quickly to needs of department and University customers Understands how own work activities impact customers' view of University Addresses customers' concerns with courtesy and respect; works to build a "win-win" relationship Teamwork Works effectively with others in a variety of University settings Balances own responsibilities with interests of team and/or department; respects group goals Shares knowledge, responsibilities, and expertise with others easily and frequently Demonstrates positive influences within groups/teams in which she/he participates Communication Uses communication tools effectively (e.g., presentation, verbal, writing, relationship building, negotiating, listening) to meet needs of audience and/or situation Recognizes appropriate times to communicate and tailors communication to meet the needs and preferences of others Shares information and accepts feedback easily and in a timely manner Demonstrates awareness and sensitivity to others' needs in communicating and/or making decisions Continuous Learning Keeps current with new work methods, skills, and technologies to complete work activities Takes ownership for own self-development and continuous learning Applies learning from past experiences to current and future work activities People Development Helps to create work environment that promotes development of people Participates fully in performance management process Acts as teacher, mentor, and/or coach to others in a work place Employee Development Programs Forms ECR Employee Change Request Goal Tracking Worksheet Performance Appraisal Form Role Description Form General Compensation FAQ Print Compensation FAQ What is Boston College's pay philosophy? BC's pay philosophy targets the mean of the defined competition. What is the current Minimum Wage? The Massachusetts Minimum Wage is currently $14.25/hour, effective January 1, 2022. When do I get paid? Members of the professional administrative staff are paid on the 16th of the month for work performed that month (except in cases where the 16th falls on a Saturday or Sunday, at which time payments are made on the Friday prior to the 16th). Office, clerical and service staff are paid on the last working day of the week for work performed the previous week. What is a market reference point (MRP)? A market reference point (MRP) is assigned to each position. It is derived from the average actual paid salary in the external labor market according to salary survey data or, if benchmark data is not available, on comparisons with benchmarked positions. How are salary ranges determined? Each position has a salary range based on its MRP. The salary range for each position can be calculated by multiplying the MRP by 80% to arrive at the range minimum and by 120% to arrive at the range maximum. For example: Position X has an MRP of $40,000: Minimum of salary range = $40,000 * .80 = $32,000 Maximum of salary range = $40,000 * 1.20 = $48,000 The salary range is then $32,000 to $48,000. How can I find out the MRP for my position? You may contact the Compensation Office. How are hiring ranges determined? The hiring range, for job posting purposes, is the range minimum to the MRP. In the example above, the hiring range would be $32,000 - $40,000. How are starting salaries for new hires determined? The hiring department, in consultation with Human Resources, reviews the candidate's qualifications and experience and also looks at the current salaries of comparable positions to ensure internal equity. How can I get a copy of my Role Description? You can ask your supervisor or contact the Compensation Office for this document. What if my Role Description isn't up-to-date? Role Descriptions detail a position's key responsibilities. You should review your Role Description annually with your supervisor during your performance appraisal. If substantial changes have occurred and he/she agrees that an additional review by the Compensation Office is warranted, he/she will need to revise the role description and secure approval from the division/school head and/or division/school administrator who will forward the updated Role Description to the Compensation Office for review. What is the difference between an exempt and a non-exempt position? The Fair Labor Standards Act (FLSA) determines which positions are classified as exempt and non-exempt. An exempt position is exempt from the overtime pay provisions of the FLSA, the employee must be paid on a salaried basis, and must perform work duties that the FLSA defines as exempt based on his/her major job functions. A non-exempt position is eligible for overtime pay and the employee must be paid the prevailing minimum wage. What happens if I work more than my normal workweek as a non-exempt employee? Non-exempt staff are eligible for payment for extra/overtime hours worked at the request of the supervisor at times when workloads or unusual circumstances make it necessary. Whenever possible, the extra hours will be offset by allowing the employee an equivalent number of hours off during the same pay period so that the total hours worked will not exceed 40 in a week. "Compensatory time" for extra/overtime hours is not permitted to be carried over to subsequent weeks. Extra hours worked between regulary scheduled hours and 40 per week are compensated at the regular hourly rate; overtime hours beyond 40 in a week are compensated at one and one-half times the regular rate. How do managers initiate a request to create or modify a position? Through the position management process, supervisors work with the Compensation Office to create new positions, modify existing or vacant positions, change reporting relationships, or increase/decrease hours worked. Departments must provide a brief but clear explanation that supports the change being requested, which will be reviewed by the HR liaison, division/school head, and the Compensation Office to determine feasibility, classification, and funding. What is a performance appraisal? As part of the overall Performance Management Program, the formal performance appraisal is a summary of the year-long communication between supervisor and employee. The appraisal normally occurs annually in March. Who is eligible for a performance appraisal? A performance appraisal should be prepared for each employee who has completed the new hire probationary period (i.e., exempt professional/administrative employees hired on or prior to December 1, and non-exempt technical, clerical, and Dining service employees hired prior to February 1) and has a scheduled review date of June 1. When am I eligible for a performance appraisal if I recently transferred to a new department? Employees who transferred to another department after January 1, should be reviewed by their previous supervisor. The completed appraisal document and a merit increase recommendation should then be forwarded to the employee's current supervisor. How is a performance appraisal done? The supervisor and the employee should jointly decide the most effective method of completing and reviewing the appraisal forms. In some instances, the supervisor may first complete the form and then give it to the employee for completion; or each may complete a separate form to be compared and discussed during the appraisal session. Appraisal tips for the supervisor and appraisal tips for the employee will assist you with preparing for a successful and productive appraisal discussion. When should performance appraisals be completed? They should be completed during March and April. Please see the Yearly Calendar for Implementing Performance Management in order to learn how the performance appraisal fits with the overall Performance Management Program. The performance of new employees is reviewed at the end of the official probationary period, that is, after six months of employment for exempt employees and four months of employment for non-exempt employees. Probationary reviews provide an opportunity for the supervisor and the employee to determine the appropriateness of continued employment for the employee and to discuss performance and areas for further development. Who is eligible for a probationary salary increase? Exempt employees hired between December 2 and May 31 and non-exempt employees hired between February 1 and May 31 are not eligible for the annual merit review. Instead, they are eligible for a salary increment in conjunction with their probationary review. What if I have a question that isn't listed here? Further questions regarding general compensation practices may be directed to the Compensation Office by phone at 617-552-3184. Quick Links Benefits Departments Forms Events HR Wiki Back To Top Back To Top Human Resources 129 Lake Street Brighton Campus 617-552-3330 About Work at BC Policies & Forms Programs & Events Caring for Our People Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College