Skip to Main Content Brown University Secondary Navigation Navigation About Events For You Current Students Faculty Staff Parents & Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Give to Brown Site Navigation Academics Undergraduate Graduate & Professional Schools & Colleges Academic Departments Centers & Institutes Libraries & Collections Global Education Non-Degree Programs Admission & Aid Undergraduate Admission Graduate Admission Medical School Admission Executive & Professional Admission Tuition & Aid Research Find a Researcher Industry Engagement Conducting Research at Brown Life at Brown Athletics & Recreation Community Health & Wellness Housing & Dining Life in Providence Student Organizations University Events News Featured Events For Journalists Search Menu Libraries and Collections Brown’s network of libraries and collections fuels discovery and high-impact scholarship, serving as a dynamic physical, digital and intellectual hub for teaching, research and learning. Breadcrumb Home Academics Sub Navigation In This Section Undergraduate Graduate & Professional Schools & Colleges Academic Departments Centers & Institutes Libraries & Collections Global Education Non-Degree Programs Libraries and Collections Brown’s network of libraries and collections fuels discovery and high-impact scholarship, serving as a dynamic physical, digital and intellectual hub for teaching, research and learning. More than stacks and study spaces, the network of libraries and resources comprising the Brown Library creates a laboratory for advancing scholarship. Students and faculty come to the library for expert guidance in navigating a world awash in information, experimenting with emerging digital tools and discovering ways to collaborate and innovate as they change the world. The library ensures access to hundreds of online databases and tens of thousands of journals, newspapers and e-books, available to members of the Brown community from anywhere in the world at any time. University Library Locations John D. Rockefeller Jr. Library The John D. Rockefeller Jr. Library, known as "the Rock," is the primary teaching and research library for the arts, humanities and social sciences. John D. Rockefeller Jr. Library Sciences Library The Sciences Library houses medical and science materials and is home to the Friedman Study Center, the Science Center, the Map Collection and more. Sciences Library Friedman Study Center Science Center Orwig Music Library Orwig Music Library houses music books, scores, periodicals, sound recordings, video recordings and microforms. Orwig Music Library John Hay Library John Hay Library houses special collections, rare books, manuscripts and archives. John Hay Library Champlin Memorial Library Champlin Memorial Library, located in the Warren Alpert Medical School building, provides digital access to an extensive collection of electronic journals, textbooks and databases. Champlin Memorial Library Annmary Brown Memorial The Annmary Brown Memorial houses exhibits of European and American paintings from the 17th through 20th centuries and other holdings. Annmary Brown Memorial The John Carter Brown Library The John Carter Brown Library is an independent center for advanced research in history and the humanities. It was founded in 1846 and has been located at Brown — on the College Green — since 1901. Housed within the JCB is a globally renowned, constantly growing collection of primary historical sources pertaining to the Americas. The library serves scholars from across the United States and around the world. John Carter Brown Library Special Collections The Brown library holds more than 250 special collections. The Brown Library holds more than 250 special collections, each home to rare, primary-source materials that enable rich, high-impact research. Major collections include: Alcohol and Addiction Studies Anne S. K. Brown Military Collection Harris Collection of American Poetry and Plays Manuscript Collections Sheet Music Collections University Archives List of All Special Collections Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown Social Navigation Facebook Instagram LinkedIn Snapchat Twitter YouTube Social Media Directory © Brown University Brown University For You Current Students Faculty Staff Parents & Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Academics Undergraduate Graduate & Professional Schools & Colleges Academic Departments Centers & Institutes Libraries & Collections Global Education Non-Degree Programs Admission & Aid Undergraduate Admission Graduate Admission Medical School Admission Executive & Professional Admission Tuition & Aid Research Find a Researcher Industry Engagement Conducting Research at Brown Life at Brown Athletics & Recreation Community Health & Wellness Housing & Dining Life in Providence Student Organizations University Events News Featured Events For Journalists Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation About Events For You Give to Brown All of Brown.edu People News Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Libraries and Collections Open details for Libraries and Collections Bookmark this Page