Search | Directories | Reference Tools UW Home > Discover UW > Student Guide UW Bothell Course Descriptions UW Tacoma Course Descriptions Glossary COLLEGE OF ARTS & SCIENCES SPEECH AND HEARING SCIENCES SPEECH & HEARING SCIENCES Detailed course offerings (Time Schedule) are available for Spring Quarter 2022 Summer Quarter 2022 Autumn Quarter 2022 SPHSC 100 Voice and Articulation Improvement (3) VLPA For native speakers of English only. Voice production and the sound system of standard American speech. Speech standards, regional and social dialects, voice quality and basic language-oriented characteristics. Practice for improving speech style. May not be repeated. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: SPHSC 100 SPHSC 111 The American English Sound System (2, max. 4) For non-native speakers of English only. Speech sounds of American English. Practice in listening and using American speech sounds and intonation patterns. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: SPHSC 111 SPHSC 250 Introduction to Speech and Hearing Sciences (3) I&S/NW Introduction to the field of speech and hearing sciences and its associated professions. Provides broad overview of normal and impaired speech, language, swallowing, hearing, and balance disorders, and clinical practice settings. Discusses impact of social-cultural, ethical, and technological factors in diagnosis, treatment, and research. Required for majors; open to nonmajors. Offered: AS. View course details in MyPlan: SPHSC 250 SPHSC 261 The Nature of Sound (3) NW A. BROWN Fundamental principles of sound and vibration with emphasis on examples relevant to the speech and hearing systems. Required for majors; open to nonmajors. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: SPHSC 261 SPHSC 302 Phonetics: Theory and Transcription (4) VLPA M. Kapsner-Smith Introduction to phonetics for speech and hearing sciences. Topics include broad and narrow transcription of spoken English using the International Phonetic Alphabet, articulatory classification of the consonants and vowels of English, non-native accented speech, dialectal variations, developmental speech patterns, speech disorders, and clinical applications of phonetics in speech and hearing sciences. Required for majors; open to nonmajors. Prerequisite: SPHSC 250; and either LING 200 or LING 400 Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: SPHSC 302 SPHSC 303 Language Science (3) VLPA J. Thorne Introduction to techniques of linguistic analysis (morphology, syntax, semantics, pragmatics, etc.) used in clinical application to understand communication capacities in individuals . Required for majors; open to nonmajors. Prerequisite: SPHSC 250; and either LING 200 or LING 400 Offered: SpS. View course details in MyPlan: SPHSC 303 SPHSC 304 Speech and Language Acquisition (5) I&S A. Pace Introduction to the study of speech and language from a developmental perspective. Overview of typical communicative development patterns and milestones in English speaking children. Application to broader issues in communication science and development. Required for majors; open to nonmajors. Prerequisite: SPHSC 250 and SPHSC 303 Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: SPHSC 304 SPHSC 305 Developmental Communication and Swallowing Disorders (3) NW S. Kover Etiology and nature of developmental communication and swallowing disorders. Behavioral characteristics and common treatment approaches for language delay and disorders, developmental apraxia of speech, phonological disorders, fluency, craniofacial anomalies, cognitive-communication disorders, and feeding/swallowing disorders. Required for majors; open to nonmajors. Prerequisite: SPHSC 250; SPHSC 304; and SPHSC 320 Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: SPHSC 305 SPHSC 306 Acquired Communication and Swallowing Disorders (3) NW C. Baylor Etiology and nature of acquired speech, language, cognitive-communication and swallowing disorders in adult and geriatric populations. Behavioral characteristics and common treatment approaches related to neurological and other conditions such as stroke, traumatic brain injury, dementia, degenerative diseases, and head and neck cancer. Prerequisite: SPHSC 250; SPHSC 302; SPHSC 303; SPHSC 304; and SPHSC 320 Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: SPHSC 306 SPHSC 308 Social-Cultural Aspects of Communication (3) I&S P. DOWDEN Introduction to human communication in context. Exploration of ways communication is influenced by context, including situational, social/interpersonal, and cultural variables. Studies systems and cultural practices as they influence communication. Required for majors; open to nonmajors. Offered: WS. View course details in MyPlan: SPHSC 308 SPHSC 316 Preparation for Careers and Graduate Study in Speech and Hearing Sciences (2) Julie Dalessio Post-bachelor employment options. Emphasis on clinical and research career paths. Strategies for pursuing graduate study in speech-language pathology and audiology. Opportunities for individual reflective work, peer review, professional portfolio development, and planning. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: SpS. View course details in MyPlan: SPHSC 316 SPHSC 320 Anatomy and Physiology of Speech (5) NW M. Burns Anatomy and physiology of the speech and swallowing mechanism, including the respiratory, phonatory, and resonatory systems and their neural control. Examples and laboratory work are directed toward clinical issues in speech-language pathology. Required for majors; open to nonmajors. Prerequisite: SPHSC 250 Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: SPHSC 320 SPHSC 371 Hearing Disorders (4) I&S/NW S. Anderson, K. Tremblay Introduction to abnormal hearing and pathologies of the ear. Audiometric assessment and correlates of hearing function, including standard pure-tone audiometry, speech audiometry, and basic impedance audiometry. Communicative and social consequences of hearing loss. Overview of management and treatment of children and adults. Required for majors; open to nonmajors. Prerequisite: SPHSC 250 Offered: WS. View course details in MyPlan: SPHSC 371 SPHSC 391 Practicum in Audiology (1-4, max. 10) Illich Guided experiences in audiological assessment and aural rehabilitation of children and adults. Credit/no-credit only. View course details in MyPlan: SPHSC 391 SPHSC 405 Clinical Decision Making in Speech-Language Pathology (4) NW C. Baylor Introduction to principles and practices of assessment and treatment for speech-language pathologists. Includes foundation in skills and issues common in assessment and treatment across communication and swallowing disorders. Prerequisite: SPHSC 250; SPHSC 305; and SPHSC 306 Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: SPHSC 405 SPHSC 406 Treatment of Speech and Language Disorders (4) NW C. BAYLOR Principles and procedures for planning, implementing, and evaluating treatment for speech and language disorders. Required for majors. Prerequisite: SPHSC 405. Offered: SpS. View course details in MyPlan: SPHSC 406 SPHSC 425 Speech, Language, Hearing, and the Brain (5) I&S/NW J. Yeatman Addresses the neural bases of topics in speech, language, and hearing with an emphasis on the normal aspects of central nervous system anatomy, physiology, and function. Gives attention to issues relevant to understanding disordered systems and to points of contemporary debate among neuroscientists. Majors only. Prerequisite: SPHSC 250; SPHSC 305; SPHSC 306; and SPHSC 371 Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: SPHSC 425 SPHSC 445 Models of Speech Processing (3) NW Examines models and basic issues concerning how spoken language is processed. Presents current issues, theories, and research relative to the levels of processing entailed in producing and comprehending speech. Required for majors; open to nonmajors. View course details in MyPlan: SPHSC 445 SPHSC 449 Special Studies in Speech Pathology and Audiology (*, max. 30) M. BURNS Selected special problems in speech pathology and audiology. Offered: S. View course details in MyPlan: SPHSC 449 SPHSC 461 Hearing Science (5) NW M. Winn Basic aspects of the ear, hearing, and auditory nervous system. How the auditory system constructs an image of the acoustic environment. How attention and memory influence hearing. Effects of damage to the auditory system. Required for majors; open to non-majors. Prerequisite: SPHSC 250; SPHSC 261; and SPHSC 371 Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: SPHSC 461 SPHSC 462 Hearing Development (3) NW L. WERNER Description of the changes that occur in human hearing during development. Consideration of the possible explanations for early immaturity. Prerequisite: SPHSC 461; may not be repeated. Offered: A, odd years. View course details in MyPlan: SPHSC 462 SPHSC 471 Basic Audiometry (4) NW R. FOLSOM Theory and practice of the assessment of hearing function, including standard pure-tone audiometry, speech audiometry, and basic impedance audiometry. Required for majors. Prerequisite: SPHSC 371; SPHSC 461; may not be repeated. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: SPHSC 471 SPHSC 481 Management of Hearing Loss (3) NW Introduction to methods of communicative rehabilitation of people with hearing loss. Remediation principles of auditory and visual perception, amplification, communication strategies, and information counseling. Required for majors; open to non-majors Prerequisite: SPHSC 250; SPHSC 261; SPHSC 371 Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: SPHSC 481 SPHSC 491 Audiology Practicum in Schools (2) R. FOLSOM Special projects in clinical audiology practicum, offered only in the school setting. Provides an opportunity for students to extend audiology practicum experiences into the school environment. Prerequisite: SPHSC 371. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: AS. View course details in MyPlan: SPHSC 491 SPHSC 495 Guided Observations in Speech and Hearing Sciences (1, max. 6) Julie Ann Dalessio, Michael I Burns Faculty guided clinical observations of speech-language pathology and audiology diagnostic and treatment services. Clinical populations across culturally and linguistically diverse backgrounds and the lifespan. Includes various types and severities of communication and/or related disorders, differences, and disabilities. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: SPHSC 495 SPHSC 498 Undergraduate Honors Research ([1-5]-, max. 15) Faculty supervised, undergraduate Honors research project. Includes design and implementation, culminating in written thesis and oral presentation. SPHSC Honors Program students only. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: SPHSC 498 SPHSC 499 Undergraduate Research ([1-5]-, max. 15) Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: SPHSC 499 SPHSC 500 Clinical Methodology for Documenting Change (3) Carolyn Baylor Introduction to clinical methodology for conducting efficacious assessment and treatment of individuals with communication disorders. Emphasis on methodological approaches to collecting and analyzing data for informed clinical decision-making in a framework of holistic, patient-centered care. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: SPHSC 500 SPHSC 501 Neural Bases of Speech, Language, and Hearing (3) Michael I Burns Neuroanatomical and neurophysiological bases of language, hearing, sensory, and motor function. Special emphasis given to brain behavior correlates and behavioral consequences to speech, language, and hearing as a result of neurologic injury or disease. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: SPHSC 501 SPHSC 503 Current Issues in Speech and Hearing Sciences (3) Application of experimental methods to research in speech and hearing sciences. Offered: S. View course details in MyPlan: SPHSC 503 SPHSC 504 Research Methods in Speech and Hearing Sciences (3) S. KOVER Introduction to empirical methods in the speech and hearing sciences. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: SPHSC 504 SPHSC 506 Research Methods in Speech and Hearing Sciences (3) Sara T Kover Examines empirical methods in speech, language, and hearing sciences, with an emphasis on understanding, evaluating, and generating/applying research designs and methods. Prerequisite: introductory, undergraduate-level statistics course that is computational in nature. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: SPHSC 506 SPHSC 507 Evidence Based Practice (3) P. DOWDEN Prepares students to conduct evaluation and treatment in speech-language pathology according to Evidence-Based Practice (EBP) principles. Examines integration of "internal" and "external" evidence in the context of clinical practice. Prerequisite: graduate status in SPHSC or permission of instructor. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: SPHSC 507 SPHSC 509 Advanced Hearing Science (3) Consideration of physiological acoustics and psychoacoustics, the pertinent literature, and the experimental techniques related to study in these areas. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: SPHSC 509 SPHSC 510 Physiological Acoustics (3) Study of pertinent literature and experimental techniques incident to the physiology of the normal and abnormal auditory system. Prerequisite: SPHSC 461 or permission of instructor. View course details in MyPlan: SPHSC 510 SPHSC 511 Psychoacoustics (3) Review of significant literature and theory pertinent to normal auditory sensitivity, pitch, loudness, and other attributes of auditory sensation. Prerequisite: SPHSC 461; permission of instructor. View course details in MyPlan: SPHSC 511 SPHSC 514 Speech Physiology (3) Study of the physiological parameters of acoustic speech production. Prerequisite: SPHSC 560. View course details in MyPlan: SPHSC 514 SPHSC 518 Seminar in Speech and Hearing Sciences (1, max. 50) L. MAX Reviews selected research area and methods in the speech and hearing sciences. Discusses topics related to developing a career in research or academics. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: AWSp. View course details in MyPlan: SPHSC 518 SPHSC 519 Seminar in Speech Science (2, max. 50) View course details in MyPlan: SPHSC 519 SPHSC 520 Advanced Instrumentation for Speech and Hearing Sciences (3) Design and use of electronic and electroacoustic devices in the speech and hearing sciences. Four hours of laboratory required each week. View course details in MyPlan: SPHSC 520 SPHSC 521 Instrumentation for Audiology (4) Introduction to basic instrumentation used in audiology and hearing science; detailed instruction in audiometer calibration including a review of current national and international standards pertinent to audiology; emphasis on use rather than theory. Prerequisite: permission of instructor. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: SPHSC 521 SPHSC 522 Hearing Instrument Modification/Repair (1) Martha L. Harney Minor repair and modification of hearing aids, earmolds and associated accessories. Includes operation of hand tools and small power tools used in repair and earmold modification. Familiarity with different materials used to make or repair hearing aids/accessories. Troubleshooting damaged, malfunctioning, or inoperative instruments. Interpreting acoustic and electroacoustic test results to aid in troubleshooting or repair. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: SPHSC 522 SPHSC 523 Special Topics in Audiology (3, max. 12) K. TREMBLAY Applied and theoretical issues related to audiology. Weekly seminar includes guest speakers discussing current and future trends in science that relate to hearing and the practice of audiology. Offered: W, even years. View course details in MyPlan: SPHSC 523 SPHSC 525 Speech Signal Processing (3) Theory, evaluation, and use of speech signal processing algorithms such as sampling, filtering, spectral analysis, autocorrelation, and speech synthesis. Laboratory assignments develop skills in using signal analysis and synthesis software applied to normal and pathological speech. View course details in MyPlan: SPHSC 525 SPHSC 526 Assessment and Treatment of Literacy Disorders (2) Examines the principles and procedures used in the assessment and treatment of literacy disorders with an emphasis on childhood literacy disorders as well as the relationship between verbal language impairment and literacy skills. Prerequisite: SPHSC 536. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: SPHSC 526 SPHSC 528 Communication and Language Development in Children with Autism Spectrum Disorders or Other Neurodevelopmental Disorders (2) Sara T Kover Current research on Autism Spectrum Disorder (ASD) and other neurodevelopmental disorders. Examines ASD diagnosis, features of language and communication in individuals with ASD, and intervention. Considerations of language outcomes/variability among individuals, lexical acquisition, syntactic acquisition, and pragmatics. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: SPHSC 528 SPHSC 529 Assessment and Treatment of Birth-to-5 Communication Disorders (3) Amy E Pace Examination of assessment and intervention approaches to developmental language disorders in children from the pre-linguistic level through the developing language stage (birth to age 5). Prerequisite: SPHSC 539. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: SPHSC 529 SPHSC 531 Assessment and Treatment of Neurogenic Motor Speech Disorders (3) Kristie Spencer Examines the nature, assessment, and management of the dysarthrias, acquired apraxia or speech, and childhood apraxia of speech. Prerequisite: either SPHSC 501 and SPHSC 539, or permission of instructor. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: SPHSC 531 SPHSC 532 Assessment and Treatment of Neurogenic Language and Cognitive-Communication Disorders (4) Diane L. Kendall Provides an overview of the nature, evaluation, and management of acquired language and cognitive-communication disorders in adults. Addresses aphasia, alexia, agraphia, right brain injury, dementia, and traumatic brain injury. Examines the systems that support language (e.g. attention, verbal working memory) and focuses on the underlying neuropathologies and evidence-based approaches to assessment and management of these disorders. Prerequisite: SPHSC 501 or permission of instructor. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: SPHSC 532 SPHSC 533 Medical Speech-Language Pathology (3) Jacqueline L. Daniels Provides an overview of the nature of speech-language pathology practice in medical settings. Examines the delivery of speech-language pathology interventions in the context of healthcare and hospital structure and operations, medical procedures and treatments, such as tracheostomy and pharmacology, interprofessional collaboration, and medical ethics. Prerequisite: either SPHSC 501; SPHSC 531; SPHSC 532; and SPHSC 534, or permission of instructor. Offered: S. View course details in MyPlan: SPHSC 533 SPHSC 534 Assessment and Treatment of Dysphagia (4) Jan C Pryor Examines the anatophysiologic bases of swallowing function and dysfunction. Addresses the causes and types of acquired dysphagia and related disorders in adults. Introduces perceptual and instrumental methods of examining and evaluating swallowing. Examines various approaches to treating dysphagia and reviews the evidenciary basis for these treatments. Prerequisite: either SPHSC 501 or permission of instructor. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: SPHSC 534 SPHSC 535 Assessment and Treatment of Voice Disorders (2) Martin Nevdahl Examines the nature, assessment and management of voice production and voice disorders. Introduces perceptual and instrumental methods of measuring voice that are used to help identify voice disorders. Introduces various approaches to treating voice disorders and reviews the evidenciary basis for these treatments. Prerequisite: SPHSC 501. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: SPHSC 535 SPHSC 536 Assessment and Treatment of School-Age Communication Disorders (3) Sara T Kover Examines the principles and procedures used in the assessment and treatment of school-aged speech-and-language disorders. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: SPHSC 536 SPHSC 537 Assessment and Treatment of Fluency Disorders (3) Ludo Max Examines the nature, assessment and treatment of stuttering and other fluency disorders in children and adults. Addresses fluent and dysfluent speech characteristics, typical speech development and production, human learning, and principal theories of stuttering. Prerequisite: either SPHSC 501 or permission of instructor. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: SPHSC 537 SPHSC 538 Dementia and Right Hemisphere Disorders (2) Kristie Spencer Examines dementia and right brain injury for understanding of the underlying neuropathologies, techniques for assessment, and evidence-based interventions. Prerequisite: SPHSC 501 and SPHSC 532. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: SPHSC 538 SPHSC 539 Assessment and Treatment of Speech Sound Disorders (3) Julie A Dunlap Examines the nature, assessment, and treatment of articulation and phonological disorders across the lifespan. Addresses normal and disordered patterns of speech sounds and phonological development, including characteristics of special populations. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: SPHSC 539 SPHSC 540 Augmentative and Alternative Communication Foundations (3) Tanna Neufeld Examines evaluation and intervention strategies for individuals with severe communication impairments, both acquired and developmental. Provides a framework for clinical decision-making and an overview of multi-modal communication strategies, including the use of high technology devices and software, as well as low technology approaches incorporating books, boards, and picture exchanges. Prerequisite: either SPHSC 529; SPHSC 531; SPHSC 532; and SPHSC 536, or permission of instructor. Offered: S. View course details in MyPlan: SPHSC 540 SPHSC 541 Augmentative and Alternative Communication in the Medical Setting (2) P. DOWDEN Evaluation and intervention for severe acquired speech/language impairments. Covers decision-making and treatment for individuals who sustained a CVI, traumatic brain injury, or have degenerative diseases. Solutions include multi-modal strategies, from books to voice output systems. Prerequisite: SPHSC 540 or permission of instructor. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: SPHSC 541 SPHSC 542 Counseling Skills for Speech, Language and Hearing Professionals (2) Michael I Burns Introduction to counseling theory and practice in speech-language pathology, audiology, and related fields. Provides opportunities for learning and practicing counseling skills. Addresses key counseling issues, including professional boundaries, intense emotions, and counselor's feelings and reactions. Prerequisite: graduate standing in SPHSC or permission of instructor. Offered: S. View course details in MyPlan: SPHSC 542 SPHSC 543 Assessment and Treatment of Pediatric Feeding and Swallowing (2) Julie A Dunlap Examines principles and procedure used in the assessment and treatment of pediatric swallowing and feeding disorders. Addresses typical development of feeding and swallowing skills. Uses systems approach to assessment, including clinical and instrumental techniques and evidenced-based intervention strategies applicable to the infant/child across different pediatric practice settings. Prerequisite: either SPHSC 501; and SPHSC 534, or permission of instructor. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: SPHSC 543 SPHSC 545 Assessment and Treatment of Voice Disorders in Medical Settings (2) Cara Sauder Examines the principles and procedures used in assessment and treatment of voice disorders seen in medical settings. Focus on instrumentation such as laryngeal imaging, acoustics, aerodynamics, and perceptual measures and the interpretation of these measures. Consideration of the independent and collaborative assessment and treatment approaches used by both medical and speech-language pathology professionals for specific voice disorders. Prerequisite: SPHSC 533 and SPHSC 535. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: SPHSC 545 SPHSC 546 Complex Neurogenic Disorders (2) Michael I Burns Advanced study in the nature, assessment, and treatment of acquired communication and swallowing disorders associated with medically complex patients with etiologies and co-morbidities such as degenerative diseases, brain tumors, strokes, hypoxia/anoxia, and cancer. Prerequisite: either SPHSC 501; SPHSC 531; and SPSHC 532, or permission of instructor. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: SPHSC 546 SPHSC 548 Traumatic Brain Injury Seminar (2) Jacqueline L. Daniels Advanced study in the nature, assessment, and management of individuals with traumatic brain injury across the lifespan. Considerations of speech, language, cognitive and behavioral consequences. Prerequisite: either SPHSC 501; SPHSC 532; and SPHSC 538, or permission of instructor. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: SPHSC 548 SPHSC 549 Clinical Forum in Speech-Language Pathology (2) Application and summation of pertinent theory, clinical issues, and trends related to the practice of speech-language pathology across the lifespan. Addresses special considerations of educational and healthcare/community practice settings. Prerequisite: successful completion of all foundational didactic and clinical practica coursework required in the master of science in speech-language pathology program. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: WSp. View course details in MyPlan: SPHSC 549 SPHSC 550 Public School Speech-Language Pathology and Audiology (3) Kate Krings Explores administrative, legal, ethical, and clinical issues encountered in remediating communication disorders in the public school setting. Specific focus on culturally and linguistically diverse populations. Satisfies the Washington State Educational Staff Associate requirement for 15 hours of coursework related to school and special education laws and policies and their application to decision-making processes in educational settings. Prerequisite: SPHSC 536 or permission of instructor. Offered: S. View course details in MyPlan: SPHSC 550 SPHSC 551 Advanced Practicum in Speech Pathology Evaluation (1-10, max. 50) Laboratory experience in the evaluation of speech and language disorders. Prerequisite: permission of instructor. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: SPHSC 551 SPHSC 552 Advanced Practicum in Speech Pathology Management (1-10, max. 50) Laboratory experience in the management of speech and language disorders. Prerequisite: permission of instructor. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: SPHSC 552 SPHSC 553 Practicum in Speech-Language Pathology (1-4, max. 50) Practicum experience in speech-language pathology, including areas such as speech sound production, voice and resonance, fluency and fluency disorders, receptive and expressive language, social aspects of communication, cognitive aspects of communication, augmentative and alternative communication modalities, swallowing/feeding, and hearing. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: SPHSC 553 SPHSC 554 Advanced Practicum in Speech-Language Pathology (2-12, max. 50) Kelsey A Leighton, Kate Krings Advanced practicum experience in speech-language pathology, occurring at both University of Washington and community-based settings. Includes areas such as speech sound production, voice and resonance, fluency and fluency disorders, receptive and expressive language, social aspects of communication, cognitive aspects of communication, augmentative and alternative communication modalities, swallowing/feeding, and hearing. Prerequisite: SPHSC 553. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: SPHSC 554 SPHSC 555 Pre-Internship in Speech and Hearing Sciences (1-10, max. 50) Practicum in speech pathology or audiology designed to teach the clinical regimen of a participating professional center prior to assuming a full internship assignment. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: SPHSC 555 SPHSC 556 Advanced Aural Rehabilitation (4, max. 8) K. TREMBLAY Advanced study of auditory rehabilitation and training, including psychosocial issues of individuals with hearing loss. Merges research theories with clinical practice and provides experience with applied auditory training in a community setting. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: SPHSC 556 SPHSC 559 Special Topics in Speech, Language, and Hearing (1-5, max. 30) Guided opportunity for study and advanced discussions in specific areas of speech, language, and hearing science research, theory, and clinical practice. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: SPHSC 559 SPHSC 560 Studies in Speech Science and Disorders (3) Examines contemporary models and research paradigms in speech science and disorders. Topics include respiratory physiology, laryngeal physiology, aerodynamics of speech production, articulatory dynamics, speech acoustics, and speech perception. Offered: W, odd years. View course details in MyPlan: SPHSC 560 SPHSC 561 Studies in Hearing Sciences and Disorders (3) Examines contemporary models and research paradigms in the area of hearing science and disorders. Topics include psychoacoustics; amplification; electrophysiological evaluation; physiological acoustics; and perceptual consequences of hearing loss. Offered: A, even years. View course details in MyPlan: SPHSC 561 SPHSC 562 Studies in Language Science and Disorders (3) Examines research in the area of language science and disorders including word recognition and production; storage of retrieval of word form and meaning; comprehension and production of sentences and discourse; and language in social context. Topics examined relative to development, language impairments, and normal language processing. Offered: Sp, odd years. View course details in MyPlan: SPHSC 562 SPHSC 563 Instructional Development Forum (1, max. 50) Emphasizes instructional techniques and issues as they relate to teaching in the discipline of communication sciences and its disorders. Topics include course development, grading, student-faculty relations, teaching methods, and diversity. Prerequisite: graduate standing in Speech and Hearing Sciences. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: AW. View course details in MyPlan: SPHSC 563 SPHSC 564 Teaching Practicum (1-5, max. 50) Provides experience in preparing and giving lectures, leading discussions, preparing and grading assignments and tests, and working directly with undergraduate and graduate students. Prerequisite: doctoral student standing in SPHSC and permission of instructor. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: SPHSC 564 SPHSC 565 Speech-Language Pathology Professional Seminar (1-3, max. 50) Kelsey A Leighton, Michael I Burns Contemporary professional issues including scope of practice, work settings, standards of ethical conduct, certification, licensure and other related credentialing, policy and regulatory considerations. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: SPHSC 565 SPHSC 567 Research Seminar in Speech and Hearing Sciences (1, max. 50) A platform for the presentation and exchange of scientific information (research data, new hardware and hardware development, scientific papers) resulting from ongoing research projects by graduate students and faculty within the Speech and Hearing Sciences Department. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: SPHSC 567 SPHSC 568 Grant Writing in Hearing, Language, and Speech Science (3) L. WERNER Design and writing of grant proposals in speech, language, and hearing sciences and disorders. Explanation of the funding process at various agencies, particularly the National Institutes of Health. Students prepare a proposal and review the proposals of their peers. Prerequisite: Enrollment in PhD degree program and permission of instructor. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: SPHSC 568 SPHSC 570 Assessment of Auditory Dysfunction I (4-) Strategies and procedures in the auditory evaluation of hearing-impaired adults. Use of diagnostic tests in the evaluation of auditory pathologies. Laboratory required. Prerequisite: SPHSC 471 or equivalent. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: SPHSC 570 SPHSC 571 Assessment of Auditory Dysfunction II (-4) Strategies and procedures in the auditory evaluation of hearing-impaired adults. Use of diagnostic tests in the evaluation of auditory pathologies. Laboratory required. Prerequisite: SPHSC 570. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: SPHSC 571 SPHSC 572 Pediatric Audiology (4) L. MANCL Assessment of auditory disorders in infants and young children. Emphasis on behavioral and electrophysiologic techniques and on the role of the audiologist in the clinical management of the young hearing-impaired child. Prerequisite: SPHSC 570 or equivalent. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: SPHSC 572 SPHSC 574 Assessment of Balance Function (4) Examines normal anatomy and physiology of the peripheral and central vestibular system. Reviews peripheral and central vestibular disorders and treatment protocols. Major focus of assessment on electronystagmography with associated lab. Provides overview of rotational and posturography measures of balance function. Prerequisite: SPHSC 571 or permission of instructor. Offered: S. View course details in MyPlan: SPHSC 574 SPHSC 575 Medical Backgrounds in Audiology (3) Diseases and injuries of the ear resulting in reduced audition. Prerequisite: SPHSC 571 or permission of instructor. Offered: S. View course details in MyPlan: SPHSC 575 SPHSC 576 Otoacoustic Emissions (2) R. FOLSOM Consideration of otoacoustic emissions and the physiologic techniques used to record them. Includes interpretation of responses in both the normal and disordered auditory system as well as clinical application of emissions in both adult and infant populations. Laboratory required. Prerequisite: SPHSC 571, SPHSC 572, and SPHSC 592, or permission of instructor. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: SPHSC 576 SPHSC 577 Industrial and Community Hearing Conservation (2) Psychophysiological effects of environmental noise on man. Techniques of noise measurement and attenuation, including the planning of hearing conservation programs in industry and in the community. Prerequisite: SPHSC 571 or permission of instructor. Offered: S, odd years. View course details in MyPlan: SPHSC 577 SPHSC 578 Hearing Screening (2) Consideration of hearing screening programs and the statistical techniques used to evaluate them. Includes history, rationale, and technical aspects of hearing screening as well as current models for developing neonatal, school-age, and adult hearing screening programs. Prerequisite: SPHSC 572, SPHSC 576, and SPHSC 592, or permission of instructor. Offered: S, even years. View course details in MyPlan: SPHSC 578 SPHSC 579 Geriatric Audiology (2) S. ANDERSON Examines the biological, psychological, and social aspects of the aging process. Emphasizes the identification and diagnosis of hearing problems associated with the aging process and its rehabilitation. Prerequisite: SPHSC 571. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: SPHSC 579 SPHSC 580 Rehabilitative Audiology (3) L. ILLICH Explores technology to enhance communication effectiveness of hearing impaired persons. Selection and training in the use of assistive systems and cochlear implants. Advanced perception assessment and training methodology. Discussion and application of aural rehabilitation in different settings. Explores the Americans with Disabilities Act and assistive listening devices. Prerequisite: SPHSC 571 and SPHSC 583. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: SPHSC 580 SPHSC 581 Management of Hearing-Impaired Children (3) J. SULLIVAN Studies pediatric habilitation available for children with hearing impairment and the impact of new technologies on therapy, education, and audiological treatment. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: SPHSC 581 SPHSC 582 Hearing Aid Amplification (4) C. MILLER Acoustic amplification and methods of determining electroacoustic characteristics. Includes earmold technology. Prerequisite: SPHSC 471 and SPHSC 570 or permission of instructor. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: SPHSC 582 SPHSC 583 Hearing Aid Selection (4) C. MILLER Consideration of strategies utilized in selecting and fitting acoustic amplification for the hearing impaired, including review of pertinent research literature. Prerequisite: SPHSC 582 or permission of instructor. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: SPHSC 583 SPHSC 584 Advanced Amplification (3) C. MILLER Current topics in hearing aids and amplification technology; review of pertinent research articles. Prerequisite: SPHSC 582; SPHSC 583. Offered: A, even years. View course details in MyPlan: SPHSC 584 SPHSC 585 Pediatric Hearing Technology and Habilitation (4) L. Mancl Examines the selection, verification, and validation of hearing technology for infants and children. Studies habilitation available to children with hearing loss, including factors that influence outcomes. Prerequisite: SPHSC 582 or permission of instructor. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: SPHSC 585 SPHSC 586 Cochlear Implants (5) J. BIERER Covers the history, function, and application of cochlear implants as a clinical tool to enhance or restore human hearing, including fitting procedures, outcomes, and rehabilitation for children and adults. Prerequisite: permission of instructor. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: SPHSC 586 SPHSC 587 Ethics (3) Analysis and discussion of ethical considerations in the clinic, and in research, for speech and hearing professionals. Covers codes of professional organizations. View course details in MyPlan: SPHSC 587 SPHSC 588 Audiology Proseminar (1-3, max. 9) M. HARNEY Consideration of professional issues, practice management, and externship preparation. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: AWSp. View course details in MyPlan: SPHSC 588 SPHSC 591 Advanced Practicum in Audiology (1-10, max. 75) Prerequisite: permission of instructor. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: SPHSC 591 SPHSC 592 Electrophysiologic Assessment I (4) R. FOLSOM, K. TREMBLAY Consideration of physiologic techniques that may be used to evaluate the normal and disordered auditory system. Outside laboratory required. Prerequisite: SPHSC 461 or equivalent, SPHSC 571. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: SPHSC 592 SPHSC 593 Electrophysiologic Assessment II (3) R. FOLSOM, K. TREMBLAY Examines event-related potentials including recording techniques, neurophysiological mechanisms, and applications to clinical populations. Prerequisite: SPHSC 592. Offered: W, odd years. View course details in MyPlan: SPHSC 593 SPHSC 594 Capturing Brain Dynamics: A Combined Neuroscience and Engineering Approach (4) A. LEE Introduces methods for capturing brain dynamics using an emerging neuroimaging technique know as magnetoencephalography (MEG). Uses techniques to examine perception and cognitive processes and their implications for future brain-computer-interface (BCI) design. Prepare students for interdisciplinary research in neuroscience and engineering. Offered: jointly with LING 582; W. View course details in MyPlan: SPHSC 594 SPHSC 596 Clinical Education in Audiology (1-10, max. 50) M. HARNEY Laboratory experience in audiology. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: SPHSC 596 SPHSC 599 Research Practicum (*, max. 50) Supervised laboratory experience in experimental approach to problems in speech and hearing sciences. Prerequisite: permission of instructor. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: SPHSC 599 SPHSC 600 Independent Study or Research (*-) Prerequisite: permission of instructor. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: SPHSC 600 SPHSC 601 Internship ([1-10]-, max. 50) Supervised field experiences in settings other than public schools. Prerequisite: permission of instructor. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: SPHSC 601 SPHSC 602 Internship in the Schools ([3-10]-, max. 50) Supervised field experience in a public school setting. Prerequisite: permission of instructor. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: SPHSC 602 SPHSC 700 Master's Thesis (*-) Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: SPHSC 700 SPHSC 800 Doctoral Dissertation (*-) Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: SPHSC 800 SPHSC 801 Practice Doctorate Project/Capstone ([1-12]-, max. 50) Supervised research experience in the field of audiology that culminates in a final research paper and oral defense. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: SPHSC 801 Office of the University Registrar registrar@uw.edu Modified: May 30, 2022