Skip to main content Skip to primary site menu Skip to primary site search Google Tag Manager Joukowsky Institute for Archaeology Show/Hide Home People Undergraduate Concentration Requirements Engaged Scholars Program Fieldwork Opportunities Research Opportunities Study Abroad Prizes and Fellowships Life After Brown? Department Undergraduate Group (DUG) [email protected] Recent Senior Honors Theses Current Concentrators Graduate Courses Research & Projects Events News About Us Engaged Scholars Program in Archaeology and the Ancient World Please Note: As of Fall 2021, with the launch of the new Engaged Scholars Certificate at Brown University's Swearer Center for Public Service, applications for the Engaged Scholars Program in Archaeology and the Ancient World are no longer being accepted. For questions about the new certificate, please visit the Swearer Center’s ESC website or email [email protected]. Program Description The Engaged Scholars Program in Archaeology and the Ancient World is geared for Archaeology concentrators who are invested in thinking about – and helping to shape – archaeology’s role in social and cultural change. Engaged Scholars in Archaeology should be interested in not only learning about the ancient world, but also understanding the social and public role of the material past in the present, studying public perceptions and attitudes towards antiquities, and connecting these theoretical and academic approaches with hands-on, meaningful engagement with a community organization or project. Archaeology’s Engaged Scholars Program encourages students to think deeply about the intersections between their academic studies with efforts to engage various communities and publics in the archaeological process – potentially including approaches such as public and community archaeology programs (including Archaeology of College Hill and Think Like an Archaeologist), archaeological ethnography, and other community-based projects. Engaged scholars combine hands-on experiences such as internships, public service, humanitarian and development work with their academic learning in order to develop a deeper understanding of, and appreciation for, social engagement. Requirements for Engaged Scholars in Archaeology Students interested in becoming Engaged Scholars in Archaeology should apply to the ESP program in ASK at the same time that they declare the Archaeology concentration – though it is also possible to revise your concentration declaration to add the Engaged Scholar declaration at a later time. Students do not need to take courses beyond those required for the concentration in Archaeology to fulfill their Engaged Scholar requirements, though they may wish to do so. Many of the requirements can be fulfilled either during the academic year or over the summers. While fulfilling concentration requirements, students must also complete the following requirements: Three courses in Archaeology (or in other programs, if approved by one of JIAAW’s ESP Advisors in advance). These will also count towards the concentration. (*Note: The courses appearing on these lists may not offered every year. The lists of approved courses will be updated each Fall. One of the following courses offering a broad perspective on archaeology’s role in social engagement*: • ARCH 1175 Archaeology Matters! Past Perspectives on Modern Problems • ARCH 1536 Archaeological Ethnographies: Heritage and Community in the Mediterranean (ANTH 1126) • ARCH 1543 Decolonizing Classical Antiquity: White Nationalism, Colonialism, and Ancient Material Heritage (MGRK 1220) • CLAS 0210 L or ARCH 1550/1551 Who Owns the Classical Past? One course that incorporates some aspect of hands-on engagement with the Providence community, including*: • ARCH 1170 Community Archaeology in Providence and Beyond • ARCH 1900 The Archaeology of College Hill • ANTH 1940 Ethnographic Research Methods (with prior permission from one of JIAAW’s ESP Advisors) At least one additional ARCH course designated by the faculty as “engaged pedagogy” (a broad category that is intended to encompass courses that include interaction with the Providence community or other relevant communities, and/or an emphasis on the role of archaeology in social justice issues, ethical debates, or effecting local or global change). See list below, or additional classes will be considered with prior permission from one of JIAAW’s ESP Advisors. Participation in at least three classroom or museum visits as part of the Think Like an Archaeologist program. Completion of the Engaged Scholar seminar, SOC 0310 Theory and Practice of Engaged Scholarship (ESP Seminar), ideally in the Fall of Junior Year. If students have questions about this requirement they should discuss with ESP staff. A significant long-term practicum in engaged scholarship approved by one of JIAAW’s ESP Advisors and by Swearer Center staff. The ESP archaeology practicum may take place anywhere in the world, and may occur over the school year, in the summer, or both. Projects may be aligned with courses or pursued independently, and students should commit to devoting 150-250 hours to this hands-on project in the community. ESP staff supervise the practicum, which involves several written assignments. A one-semester independent study (ARCH 1970) overseen by an Archaeology faculty member that relates in some way to the practicum project, another research project with an engaged element that the student has conducted, or a topic integrally connected with issues of engaged scholarship in archaeology (e.g., ethics, cultural heritage, social change, etc.), which will result in a substantial written product (the Capstone project and/or an Honors Thesis). Students not pursuing honors should enroll in ARCH 1970 for one semester (either Fall or Spring of senior year) with an Archaeology faculty member, and will complete a Capstone project. Students pursuing honors should enroll in ARCH 1970 in the Fall of senior year, and ARCH 1990 in the Spring, while completing their honors thesis (which must include a substantial engaged element). To receive honors in Archaeology, a student must have earned more A’s than B’s in archaeology, completed ARCH 1970 and ARCH 1990 in the senior year, and completed a senior thesis assessed as honors quality by the student’s thesis advisor and reader. ESP students are part of an interdisciplinary community of undergraduate scholars that meets regularly for workshops, lectures, and other programming, organized by the Joukowsky Institute, the Swearer Center, and other related programs. Application Process Students’ application to the Engaged Scholars program in Archaeology is incorporated as part of the concentration declaration form in ASK (ask.brown.edu). At the time of their declaration of a concentration in Archaeology and the Ancient World (or later, as a revision to their concentration declaration, if enough semester remain for the student to complete the program) students apply to ESP via ASK, as part of the declaration process. The application question ask to students to outline their reasons for interest in the Engaged Scholars program; relevant experiences, coursework, research, and/or past community work they have already undertaken; what they hope to learn and explore through the ESP; courses they might want to take; possible practicum projects; and ideas for their future capstone project. Applications are reviewed and approved by both the Joukowsky Institute and by Swearer Center staff. Students will be contacted by ESP staff directly about their application status before the end of the semester. For more information contact JIAAW’s Engaged Scholar Program Advisors: Sarah Sharpe, Assistant Director, Joukowsky Institute ([email protected]) or Professor Yannis Hamilakis ([email protected]) Addendum: Archaeology courses with “Engaged” pedagogy offered in AY 2019-2020: Fall: ARCH 1056 Indigenous Archaeologies (ANTH 1125) ARCH 1543 Decolonizing Classical Antiquity: White Nationalism, Colonialism, and Ancient Material Heritage (MGRK 1220) ARCH 1792 The Archaeology of Slavery ARCH 1900 The Archaeology of College Hill ARCH 2413 Decolonizing Space and Visual Cultures (HIAA 2285) ARCH 2554 Decolonizing Public Humanities: Intersectional Approaches to Curatorial Work + Community Organizing (AMST 2694) Spring: ARCH 0317 Heritage in the Metropolis: Remembering and Preserving the Urban Past ARCH 2184 Material Culture and the Bodily Senses: Past and Present ARCH 2557 Critical Approaches to Architectural Preservation and Cultural Heritage (AMST 2685) Archaeology courses with “Engaged” pedagogy offered in AY 2018-2019: Fall: ARCH 0156 Architecture and Urbanism of the African Diaspora (HIAA 0770) ARCH 0317 Heritage in the Metropolis: Remembering and Preserving the Urban Past ARCH 0682 Powering the Past: Environmental Histories of Energy Use and Social Change (ENVS 0710) ARCH 1054 Indians, Colonists, and Africans in New England (ANTH 1624) ARCH 1178 Archaeology and Social Justice: Un-disciplining the Past, Changing the Present ARCH 1900 The Archaeology of College Hill ARCH 2630 Global Romans and Indigenous Persistence Spring: ARCH 1494 Southeast Asia: Excavated, Curated, Contested ARCH 1536 Ethnographies of Heritage: Community and Landscape of the Mediterranean and Beyond (ANTH 1126) ARCH 1538 Divided Places: From Conflict to Understanding, Memory, and Reconciliation ARCH 1797 A Migration Crisis? Displacement, Materiality, and Experience (MGRK 1210) ARCH 2151 Slow Archaeology: Thinking Things through in Archaeological Theory and Philosophy ARCH 2501A Problems in Archaeology: Archaeology of Colonialism (ANTH 2500A) Archaeology courses with “Engaged” pedagogy offered in AY 2017-2018: Fall: MGRK 1220 Decolonizing Classical Antiquity: White Nationalism, Colonialism, and Ancient Material Heritage HIAA 1440F/HIAA 2440D Architectural Reuse: The Appropriation of the Past ARCH 1900 The Archaeology of College Hill ARCH 2180 Memory and Materiality ARCH 2184 Material Culture and the Bodily Senses: Past and Present Spring: ANTH 0066D Who Owns the Past? ARCH 0303 Material Culture: Material Nature ARCH 0310 Interactions with the Dead: In the Past and Present ARCH 1175 Archaeology Matters! Past Perspectives on Modern Problems EGYT 1465 Daily Life in Ancient Egypt ARCH 1720 How Houses Build People ANTH 1623 Archaeology of Death Undergraduate Concentration Requirements Engaged Scholars Program Fieldwork Opportunities Research Opportunities Study Abroad Prizes and Fellowships Life After Brown? Department Undergraduate Group (DUG) [email protected] Recent Senior Honors Theses Current Concentrators Explore Brown University Search Brown Show/Hide Learn More About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life Find A to Z Index People Directory Information for Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Top Destinations Global Brown Watson Institute Graduate School Alpert Medical School School of Public Health School of Engineering Joukowsky Institute for Archaeology Joukowsky Institute for Archaeology Brown University Box 1837 Rhode Island Hall, 60 George Street Providence, RI 02912 Phone: 401-863-3188 Fax: 401-863-9423 Email [email protected] Twitter Twitter Facebook Facebook Instagram Instagram Giving to Brown Brown University Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-1000 Maps & Directions / Contact Us / Accessibility © 2022 Brown University Connect: [email protected] Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram iTunes U LinkedIn SnapChat