Skip to main content Skip to main navigation Medical Humanities Menu Medical Humanities About About Our Program Medical Humanities at Baylor University Introduction to the Medical Humanities Media Events Contact Us Prospective Students FAQs Careers Degree Requirements Campus Visits Success Stories Macy Scott, MBA Candidate-Healthcare Administration Micah Gamble, MD Daniel Kiang, PharmD Sarah Tucker, MD Deborah Otuno Jada Rosa Current Students Course Descriptions Advising Departmental Approval Academic Resources Faculty & Staff Lauren A. Barron, MD Joseph A. DiLuzio, PhD Karol J. Hardin, PhD Julia Hitchcock, MFA, BFA William G. Hoy, DMin, FT Anne Jeffrey, Ph.D. Jeff Levin, PhD, MPH James A. Marcum, Ph.D. Paul Martens, Ph.D. Eric C. Martin, PhD Walter "Sparky" Matthews, M.D. Michael P. Muehlenbein, PhD, MsPH Devan Stahl, Ph.D. Sheila Smith, BBA Dan Walden, PhD Jason Whitt, Ph.D. Publications DeBakey Scholarship DeBakey Scholars DeBakey Family Legacy Giving Medical Humanities The nation's premier undergraduate program-in the context of Christian community-developing capable, compassionate leaders working for wellness in our world. Explore Program Courses Careers Faculty Become a DeBakey Scholar The Medical Humanities Department is now accepting applications for the 2022 cohort of DeBakey Scholars. This endowed scholarship assists deserving junior or senior student who are majoring in medical humanities. Learn More Baylor Alumni Doctors' Alliance The Baylor Alumni Doctors' Alliance works closely with Baylor Alumni Engagement to host events on the Baylor campus and in major cities. We invite you to participate in the Doctors' Alliance, and we need your help to build this exciting group! Contact us for information on how to get involved or to host an event in your area. Learn More Why Medical Humanities? A degree in medical humanities provides graduates with a foundation that is deep and wide, preparing them for the next step in their journey towards working in or around the healthcare professions. Learn More Learn About Our Curriculum The Medical Humanities curriculum consists of core courses exploring ethics, spirituality, and philosophical perspectives within a healthcare context. Learn More Partner with Our Program The Medical Humanities Department invites students, teachers, professionals, and members of the community to join us in our important work. Learn how you can get involved. Learn More News Read More News Apr. 20, 2022 2022 DeBakey Scholars The Medical Humanities Program is proud to announce the 2022 DeBakey Scholarship recipients. Pictured here with Dr. Barron are: Isaac Montgomery, Marigrace McDowell, Molly Shoemaker, Katie Hutcheson, Hunter Walker, Alison Jung, and Nevaeh Gomez. Read More May 5, 2021 2021 DeBakey Scholars Announced Congratulations to the 2021 DeBakey Scholarship Recipients: Maya Ewing, Esther Jeong, Ebun Ojo, Caitlin Banks, Alexa Vielledent, and Claire Ramos. Read More Jan. 29, 2021 Baylor Connections speaks with Dr. Barron Dr. Lauren Barron, the inaugural DeBakey Chair of Medical Humanities, shares how the program partners the humanities with science education to holistically prepare those going into the medical field. Read More Nov. 4, 2020 Dr. Hoy quoted in the November issue of National Geographic Magazine Our own Dr. Bill Hoy is quoted in the November issue of National Geographic on the topic of navigating grief through COVID-19. Read More Events See More Events May 16 2022 Minimester session (ends 06/02/2022) Jun 3 2022 Summer Session I (ends 07/08/2022) Jun 20 2022 Juneteenth - University Holiday Jul 4 2022 Independence Day - University Holiday Success Stories See More Stories Macy Scott, MBA Candidate-Healthcare Administration "Since before I came to Baylor, health care administration has always been my passion. It's the glue that holds the whole health care enterprise together and medical humanities helps me make sure I keep patients where they belong-at the center!" Micah Gamble, MD "A great deal of health is beyond what I can explain objectively. My foundation in the medical humanities plays a huge role in helping me understand the subjectivity within my patients' experiences of their medical condition." Daniel Kiang, PharmD "A lot of people go into college thinking they have to major in one of the traditional sciences to be a good candidate for professional school. However, my background in Medical Humanities helped me learn the vital art and skills of caring for humans - and that is invaluable training for anyone in health care whether they plan to be in pharmacy, medicine, nursing, etc." Connect With Us Medical Humanities Medical Humanities Program One Bear Place #97202 Waco, TX 76798-7202 Baylor Sciences Building D108 medicalhumanities@baylor.edu 254.710.2065 About Prospective Students Current Students Faculty/Staff Publications DeBakey Scholars Giving General Information Colleges, Schools, Libraries & Research Admissions Administration Gateways For... About Baylor Anonymous Reporting Athletics Ask Baylor Bookstore Calendar Campus Map Directory Give Light Give to Baylor Illuminate Mental Health Resources News Pro Futuris Report It Search Social Media Title IX Baylor Libraries College of Arts & Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work George W. Truett Theological Seminary Graduate School Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Louise Herrington School of Nursing Research at Baylor University Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Engineering & Computer Science School of Music More Academics Undergraduate Admissions goBAYLOR Graduate Admissions Baylor Law School Admissions Social Work Graduate Programs George W. Truett Theological Seminary Admissions Online Graduate Professional Education Virtual Tour Visit Campus Annual Fire Safety and Security Notice Athletics Human Resources Marketing and Communications Office of General Counsel Office of the President Office of the Provost Operations, Finance & Administration Senior Administration Student Life University Advancement Baylor Alumni Faculty & Staff Online Graduate Professional Education Parents Prospective Faculty & Staff Prospective Students Students Copyright © Baylor® University. All rights reserved. Legal Disclosures. Baylor University • Waco, Texas 76798 • 1-800-229-5678 About About Our Program Medical Humanities at Baylor University Introduction to the Medical Humanities Media Events Contact Us Prospective Students FAQs Careers Degree Requirements Campus Visits Success Stories Macy Scott, MBA Candidate-Healthcare Administration Micah Gamble, MD Daniel Kiang, PharmD Sarah Tucker, MD Deborah Otuno Jada Rosa Current Students Course Descriptions Advising Departmental Approval Academic Resources Faculty & Staff Lauren A. Barron, MD Joseph A. DiLuzio, PhD Karol J. Hardin, PhD Julia Hitchcock, MFA, BFA William G. Hoy, DMin, FT Anne Jeffrey, Ph.D. Jeff Levin, PhD, MPH James A. Marcum, Ph.D. Paul Martens, Ph.D. Eric C. Martin, PhD Walter "Sparky" Matthews, M.D. Michael P. Muehlenbein, PhD, MsPH Devan Stahl, Ph.D. Sheila Smith, BBA Dan Walden, PhD Jason Whitt, Ph.D. Publications DeBakey Scholarship DeBakey Scholars DeBakey Family Legacy Giving