Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Human Resources Human Resources Information For Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff Search BC.edu Links Boston College Children's Center Menu Main Nav Boston College Children's Center Lottery and Waitlist Form Back Back Close About Curriculum & Staff Classrooms Calendar & Events Lottery and Waitlist Form Close Directory A to Z Listing Search Human Resources Search BC.edu Find pages or people Search Close Close Apply Visit Give Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close The Boston College Children's Center provides a high-quality preschool curriculum and extended daycare for children of faculty, employees, and graduate and undergraduate students. When available, spaces are also offered to neighborhood residents. Our qualified teachers are facilitators, helping children plan, select, and explore materials in ways that teach readiness skills and concepts. Teachers are selected on the basis of their extensive experience and education in the field of Early Childhood Education. They are creative experts in their field who care about young children and are dedicated to providing an exciting and nurturing place in which youngsters can grow. Parent Handbook Access details on policies, procedures, and more. View The Parent Handbook Diversity and Inclusion Boston College welcomes and encourages diversity in its population and programs. The University welcomes all, regardless of race, religion, cultural heritage, political beliefs, marital status, sexual orientation, national origin, or differing ability. The University's affirmative action and nondiscrimination policies extend to the Children's Center's admissions, administration, and educational programs. The Children’s Center serves and acknowledges all types of families in its programming. Preschool Openings Lottery Eligibility Registration Children who will be between the ages of two years, nine months and five years, zero months by September 1, 2022 are eligible for the program. Lots are drawn according to available openings, age group, and employee or student category. Register for the lottery by submitting the Lottery Form. For additional questions, please call Karen Cristello at the Children's Center at 617-552-3089. Lottery and Waitlist Form The Children's Center is licensed for 42 full-time spaces. Enrollment for open spaces is done through an annual lottery, designed to afford all employee/student families an opportunity to access the program. The application period begins on October 1, 2021 and ends December 10, 2021. On December 15, 2021, the lots are drawn by the Vice President of Human Resources. Applicants are placed in lottery categories by the BCCC director according to the information given on the application. A count of the current members is taken, and priority for openings is given to full-time applicants and underrepresented categories. Family categories include Faculty, Professional/Admin, Support Staff, Serv/Tech, Graduate Student, and Undergraduate Student. Other areas that affect the lots drawn are age group and the schedule requested. Once the lots are drawn, parents are informed of their status by email, and appointments for tours and intake interviews are scheduled. Parents are asked to read the Parent Handbook prior to their intake appointment. The Center requests a commitment to accept enrollment shortly after the intake interview. Once the decision to join the Children's Center is made, a contract is signed and the payment of one month’s advanced tuition is required. This tuition payment holds the child’s place in the upcoming class. The advanced payment is non-refundable. Support the Children's Center when you shop on Amazon. Support The Children's Center Back To Top Back To Top Human Resources 129 Lake Street Brighton Campus 617-552-3330 About Curriculum & Staff Classrooms Calendar & Events Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College