Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Health Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Our Services Appointments Health Topics Events Forms and Guidelines Our Organization News See All Services What's Open Now Patient Resources Quarantine and Isolation Support Coping Tools Immunization Compliance Top Services Birth Control Education Individual Counseling Primary Care Register with Disability Services Sexual Assault: Get Support STI Testing Support Groups Travel Medicine Urgent Medical Concerns Workshops and Trainings Cost of Service Overview Make an Appointment Same Day Service Emergency and After-hours Support Alcohol Body Image Concerns Marijuana Disabilities Other Drugs HIV Insurance Men's Health Mental Health and Well-Being Anxiety Depression Stress Nutrition Physical Activity Relationships Overview Academic Relationships Friendships Roommates Sexual and Reproductive Health Sleep Transgender and Gender Expansive Health Violence Prevention Prevention Consent What Is Sexual Assault? Supporting a Survivor What Is Relationship Abuse? Stalking What Is Sexual Harassment? Bystander Intervention-Step UP! Women's Health See All Events Sexual Assault Awareness Month Columbia Health Flu Season Information Virtual Naloxone Training About Columbia Health Who We Are Who We Serve Confidentiality, Patient Rights, & Patient Responsibilities Operating Philosophy Video Library Your Feedback Staff Directory Health Units Alice! Health Promotion Counseling and Psychological Services Disability Services Gay Health Advocacy Project (GHAP) Insurance Office Medical Services Sexual Violence Response Columbia Health You are here: Home Forms and Guidelines General Guidelines For Disability Documentation General Guidelines For Disability Documentation January 11, 2018 Students diagnosed with physical and/or mental impairments qualify as persons with disabilities when their conditions substantially limit them in one or more major life activities. Columbia University provides reasonable accommodations to students with disabilities with consultation from their academic programs. Reasonable accommodations are adjustments to policies, practices, or procedures that facilitate equal access and opportunity for students with disabilities to the University’s programs, activities and services. In order to ensure that students’ needs are directly linked to these accommodations, Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act and the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) allow higher education institutions to require disability documentation to verify disability status and the need for reasonable accommodations. Disability Services (DS) has established the following disability documentation guidelines: Documentation must: Be recent enough in order to assess the current impact on learning or a major life activity. Please see disability-specific guidelines for more information. Please note that students requesting accommodations due to a chronic medical condition must submit documentation dated within 6 months as well as annually updated documentation. Be sufficiently comprehensive to establish clear evidence of a substantial impact on one or more major life activities. Be sufficient to establish a direct link between the underlying impairment and the requested accommodations. Include a description of what mitigating measures the student has used and whether with such use the student may still require accommodation in order to access University programs, activities and services. Be issued by a medical or other qualified, licensed professional, unrelated by birth or marriage to the student, printed on letterhead, dated, signed, and including the professional’s licensing information. No information may be redacted. The University reserves the right to require that a certified copy of the report be transmitted directly from the evaluator to the University. Documentation also must include: The student’s history of receiving reasonable accommodations and academic adjustments, if such history exists. Specific recommendations for accommodations as well as an explanation as to why each is recommended as necessary. Please also note: Referrals for all types of disability evaluations are available from DS. The student must bear any cost incurred in obtaining additional information. Please refer to specific documentation guidelines for each type of disability. If the original documentation is incomplete or inadequate to determine the extent of the disability or reasonable accommodation(s), DS has the discretion to require additional documentation. Students must complete the application process and submit disability documentation before they may receive accommodations and services. DS reserves the right to deny services or reasonable accommodations while the receipt of appropriate documentation is pending. Documentation written in a language other than English must be translated and notarized. All such documentation as well as documentation from outside the United States written in English must follow DS guidelines. *Please refer to specific documentation guidelines by disability category for type of information needed to document Psychiatric Disabilities, Sensory Disabilities, Learning Disabilities, and AD/HD. These are available at the Disability Services office (Wien Hall, Suite 108A) Document Categories Guidelines Document Topics Disability Services Columbia Health Administration Wallach Hall, Suite 125, Mail Code 4202, 1116 Amsterdam Avenue · New York, NY 10027 Phone 212-854-2284 Contact Us [email protected] Internal Use Only Login to Access Follow Us Facebook Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close