Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu The Martha and Robert Fogelman Galleries of Contemporary Art About Exhibitions Events Press Opportunities Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact TO WEAVE BLUE (POEMA AL TEJIDO) - January 31 - March 13, 2020 TO WEAVE BLUE (POEMA AL TEJIDO) - January 31 - March 13, 2020 TO WEAVE BLUE (POEMA AL TEJIDO) - January 31 - March 13, 2020 PreviousNext Take Action Visit Contact Us Support Join our Mailing List Follow Us Online Facebook Home The Martha and Robert Fogelman Galleries of Contemporary Art The Martha and Robert Fogelman Galleries will remain temporarily closed beginning March 18, 2020, in response to COVID-19. All forthcoming exhibitions, events, and programs will be suspended until further notice. We will keep you posted as any changes develop. Spring 2020 Exhibitions TO WEAVE BLUE (POEMA AL TEJIDO) On view: January 31 – March 13 Opening reception: 5-7 pm, January 31 Hellen Ascoli Tool as Place performance, January 28, 11:30 am, ACB Courtyard In Conversation: Hellen Ascoli (artist) and Laura August (curator): January 30, 7 pm, ACB 310 Exhibition Walkthrough and Coffee with Curator Laura August (in Spanish and English): February 1, 1:30 pm, Fogelman Galleries Artists Hellen Ascoli and Antonio Pichillá will also be present to speak about their work All events and programs free and open to the public. In the exhibition To Weave Blue (Poema al tejido), six contemporary artists and poets from Guatemala present work related to weaving. They consider the production of textiles as a site for knowledge, language transmission, and cultural tradition within Maya communities. Seen together, these artists' works in textile, video, poetry, performance, and installation encompass ways of understanding history, relationships, legacies of violence, and survival. The works also evoke non-Western models for art's place in everyday life, offering a narrative that exists independent of Western visual art's traditions. Many exhibitions in the United States and abroad have presented historical work by Maya people and weavings from Maya communities within ethnographic frameworks. This reflects a U.S. view of the Maya as an extinct culture, rather than a vibrant contemporary culture with numerous communities across the Americas. In contrast, this is the first exhibition in the U.S. that presents Maya artists as contemporary producers of conceptual art. To offer an approach that resists a certain cultural and historical flattening, To Weave Blue is framed as a collaborative poem or a song written to honor weaving and its ways of describing the world: Poema al tejido is a Poem for the Weaving. The exhibition thus leaves open space between different ideas, allowing them to resonate with each other gently, rather than attempting to define contemporary Mayan practice. As its title suggests, To Weave Blue also considers the color blue. Like 'weaving,' the word 'blue' has many meanings in the U.S., including sadness and melancholy. In Guatemala, a light sky blue is the national color. A deeper blue pigment, made from the mixture of indigo, clay, and the incense copal, has been used in Maya communities for more than a thousand years. The exhibition considers how a person's identity in a nation might be tied to sorrow and loss; from 1960 to 1996, an internal conflict raged in Guatemala, killing more than 200,000 people. Multiple acts of genocide were committed by the national military against Maya communities. In light of this, the many shades of blue in the exhibition might also suggest a relationship not only to profound grief but also cultural methods of survival. And in this context, weavings are signs of resistance, as much as they are objects of comfort and daily use. The exhibition includes work by contemporary Maya artists Edgar Calel (Kaq'chikel Maya from Chixot – San Juan Comalapa), Manuel Chavajay (Tzu'tujil Maya from San Pedro La Laguna, Sololá), Negma Coy (Kaq'chikel Maya from Chixot – San Juan Comalapa), Sandra Monterroso (Qeq'chi' Maya based in Guatemala City), and Antonio Pichillá (Tzu'tujil Maya from San Pedro La Laguna, Sololá). The exhibition also includes work by Guatemalan weaver, educator, sculptor, and researcher Hellen Ascoli (Guatemala City / Madison, WI). To Weave Blue (Poema al tejido) is curated by Laura August, a U.S.-born writer and curator based in Guatemala City and Houston, TX. Image courtesy of the artist. Scrolling Images: Antonio Pichillá, Abuela (Grandmother), 2017. Threads, 51 x 33 1/2 x 2 in. Manuel Chavajay, Ruk'ayeewaal, 2015. Still from video intervention, 3:35 min. Image courtesy of the artist. Edgar Calel, At nu jukukempe / Te traigo arrastrando / I Drag You With Me, 2016. Still from video performance, 2:07 min. Image courtesy of the artist. Above images: Antonio Pichillá, Un personaje llamado Martín (A character named Martín), 2018. Stone, wax, and handmade textile. 35 x 100 x 25 cm. Image courtesy of the artist. Hellen Ascoli, Tool as Place, 2019. Archival photograph from weaving research. Image courtesy of the artist. MFA THESIS EXHIBITION: TRAVIS WASHINGTON BFA THESIS EXHIBITION PART I March 27 – April 10 Opening reception: March 27, 5-7 pm BFA THESIS EXHIBITION PART II April 17 – May 1 Opening reception: April 17, 5-7 pm GRAPHIC DESIGN SENIOR EXHIBITION May 7, 6-8 pm ELISE MCKENNA WILSON ELISE MCKENNA WILSON: ABOUT-FACE May 15 – June 5 Opening reception: May 15, 5-7 pm Wait And See: Graphic Design Senior Show December 12, 2019 6:00 - 8:00 PM A one-night only exhibition of works by graduating University of Memphis Graphic Design students: Kristin Baltimore, Danielle Barron, Royale Davis, Thomas Davis, Cullen Jackson, Kala McCrosky, Lisa Miller, Breanna Parker, Kathryn Perkins, Meredith Simmons, Thomas Steele, Joseph Waterbury, Samantha Welch, and Tiara Wilson. ONE WORD: UNIVERSITY OF MEMPHIS BFA THESIS EXHIBITION November 15 - December 6, 2019 Opening Reception: November 15, 5-7 pm Gallery Talks: November 19, 11:30 am November 21, 11:30 am One Word, Part II of the Fall 2019 BFA Thesis Exhibition, featuring the work of six graduating seniors of The University of Memphis Department of Art: Ashlyn Creagh-Martinez, Julie Darling, Emily Hogan, Colt Houston, Kayla Owens, and Kylon Wagner. The exhibition is a compilation of works in a variety of media including photography and sculpture. The presentation celebrates the completion of their undergraduate studies and the culmination of each student's artistic exploration and experiences. The exhibition will be on view in The Martha and Robert Fogelman Galleries of Contemporary Art from November 15 - December 6, 2019. The students will discuss their work in gallery talks on November 19 at 11:30 am and November 21 at 11:30 am in the Fogelman Galleries. All events are free and open to the public. Hold the Door: University of Memphis BFA Thesis Exhibition October 25 – November 8 Opening Reception: Friday, October 25, 5-7 pm Gallery Talk: October 29, 11:30 am Join us for the opening reception of "Hold the Door," Part I of the Fall 2019 BFA Thesis Exhibition, features the work of four graduating seniors of The University of Memphis Department of Art: Ivy-Jade Edwards, Jeff Carter, Robert Fairchild IV, and Nicholas Svoboda. The exhibition is a compilation of works in a variety of media including painting and sculpture where color is paramount. The presentation celebrates the completion of their undergraduate studies and the culmination of each student's artistic exploration and experiences. The exhibition will be on view in The Martha and Robert Fogelman Galleries of Contemporary Art from October 25th to November 8th. The students will discuss their work in a gallery talk on October 29th at 11:30 am. All events are free and open to the public. MFA Thesis Exhibition: Christopher Davis Chatter in the Skull October 25 – November 8 Opening Reception: Friday, October 25, 5-7 pm Chatter in the Skull, the MFA Thesis Exhibition of Christopher Davis, is a phrase used by philosopher Alan Watts in reference to over-thinking and its relationship to reality: "'Chatter in the skull'...perpetual and compulsive repetition of words...of reckoning and calculating." As an artist, Davis finds himself in this "perpetual and compulsive repetition of words." Many of the words and phrases in his visual vocabulary are borrowed from the unique landscape of Southern Illinois. He has been repeating some of these forms and phrases for the better part of two decades—assembling fragments of beauty into monuments, fetishes, markers, and relics. He constructs objects from humble, easily recognizable materials. Like the landmarks that inspire him, these markers engage the viewer with the truths found in the formal relationships between objects and materials. He presents the viewer a window to contemplate the beauty that compels him to keep looking. The works in Chatter in the Skull include assemblages that have been cast to create relief sculptures and small totems, as well as larger totems/markers assembled from steel, cast objects, and wood. Smaller cast wall pieces draw the viewer for a more intimate experience while larger vertical pieces stand over the viewer, competing for dominance of the space. Christopher Davis was born in a double-wide trailer in Southern Illinois. He was raised as a member of a religious fellowship where he also attended school through the twelfth grade. These early regional, economic, and philosophical influences have given him a unique lens through which he filters the world around him. He received a Bachelor of Fine Arts in sculpture from Southern Illinois University in 2004, a Master of Arts from Arkansas State University in 2012, and will graduate in December 2019 with a Master of Fine Arts from the University of Memphis. Image: Christopher Davis, The Navigator, The Pilot, Her Favorite, 2018. Cast aluminum. 24 x 24 in. GRAPHIC DESIGN SENIOR EXHIBITION December 12, 6-8 pm Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 3/18/20 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.