Update My Record Careers First time login Login Logout Forever True, For Iowa State How to Give Types of Gifts Gift Policies Forms Gift Planning Areas to Support FundISU Corporation and Foundation Giving Make a Gift News and Stories News Archive Forward Magazine Your Iowa State Newsletter Insights Newsletter COVID-19 FAQs For Donors Donor Services Order of the Knoll Awards Women & Philanthropy Faculty and Staff Cardinal Sheet Who We Are About Governance Leadership Team Financial Information Phone Center: 515-598-2390 Careers Contact Us Update My Record Careers First time login Login Logout Need help making a gift? Call 866-419-6768 Iowa State Logo Give Now Forever True, For Iowa State How to Give Types of Gifts Gift Policies Forms Gift Planning Areas to Support FundISU Corporation and Foundation Giving Make a Gift News and Stories News Archive Forward Magazine Your Iowa State Newsletter Insights Newsletter COVID-19 FAQs For Donors Donor Services Order of the Knoll Awards Women & Philanthropy Faculty and Staff Cardinal Sheet Who We Are About Governance Leadership Team Financial Information Phone Center: 515-598-2390 Careers Contact Us Search Content: Home For Donors Women & Philanthropy The annual Women & Philanthropy Workshop serves to connect, inspire and educate women of all ages. Each year, people gather together to discover their passions and how to support them through philanthropy. 2021 events TBA History Founded in 2000 to assist the Iowa State University Foundation in its mission to support Iowa State University by expanding the involvement of women as philanthropists. Mission To educate, engage and inspire women to become philanthropic leaders at Iowa State University and in their communities Why Women & Philanthropy? Today, women view philanthropy not so much as giving as they do investing – investing in change, investing in the future, and investing in causes that are personally meaningful. Through strategic giving, women are at the leading edge of a new era in philanthropy. Women control $14 trillion of personal wealth (51% of total) in the United States which is expected to rise to $22 trillion by 2020. Women account for 45% of the millionaires in the U.S. according to a 2010 report from The American College. Women are 39% of all top wealth holders in the United States; this includes 970 female top wealth holders with $5.15 trillion in assets. Female entrepreneurs account for 36% of all businesses in the United States in 2016. They employ more than 8 million workers and generate more than $1.4 trillion in revenues. Women hold about 52% of management, professional and related positions. In 93% of high net worth households women are either the primary decision maker (28%) or the joint decision maker (65%) about household finances. IN 84% of those households, women are either the primary decision maker (24%) or the joint decision maker (60%) about investments. Sources: IUPUI Women’s Philanthropy Institute, Lilly Family School of Philanthropy. BMO Wealth Institute The American College State Farm® Center for Women and Financial Services U.S. Small Business Administration Catalyst Charles Schwab For more information, contact us at wp@foundation.iastate.edu. Interested in more resources? Click here for a list of helpful books and websites. Iowa State University Office of Gift Planning When you plan a gift to support Iowa State, you are helping to create the experience that will change lives far into the future. Whether you would like to put your donation to work today or after your lifetime, we can help you find an option that meets your needs and helps students move forward with the education, training and experience they'll need to excel tomorrow. Home Forever True, For Iowa State How to Give News and Stories For Donors Donor Services Order of the Knoll Awards Women & Philanthropy W&P Resource Guide Faculty and Staff Who We Are Careers Iowa State Highlights Women and Philanthropy Committee Dana Wenstrand, Essex, Iowa, Chair Marcia Borel, West Chester, Pennsylvania Amy Jennings, West Des Moines, Iowa Mette Lundsgaard, Austin, Texas Ana McCracken, Ames, Iowa Robin McNichols, Bondurant, Iowa Maureen Roach Tobin, Clive, Iowa Reasons to say "THANK YOU" $1,542,356,968 Since the start of the Forever True, For Iowa State campaign, donors like you helped us exceed our historic $1.5 billion goal! “Scholarship support enhances my time at Iowa State and allows me to see the world while also gaining an amazing education.” - Margaret Leligdon, Junior, Civil Engineering Forever True, For Iowa State How to Give News and Stories For Donors Faculty and Staff Who We Are 2505 University Boulevard, P.O. Box 2230, Ames, Iowa 50010-2230, 866.419.6768. Copyright ©2016, Iowa State University Foundation. All rights reserved. Facebook Twitter YouTube LinkedIn Privacy Policy Website Terms of Use Back to Top