Skip to main content Search DISCOVER THE INNOVATIVE WORK WE ARE DOING ON: Select Topic + Air, Food & Water Art & Culture Cities & Towns Climate Change Energy & Technology Environmental Justice Nature & Conservation Policy & Law Sustainable Business The Institute Mission People Newsroom Magazine Accomplishments Donate Contact Information Education Environmental Education in the Anthropocene B.S. in Environmental Science Minor in Environmental Systems and Society D. Env in Environmental Science and Engineering Ph.D. in Environment and Sustainability Leaders in Sustainability Research Topics Centers Field Sites Projects Publications Engagement Events Pritzker Emerging Environmental Genius Award Partnerships Corporate Partners Program GreenSparks Videos BACK Marilyn N. Raphael Director, Institute of the Environment and Sustainability Professor, Department of Geography La Kretz Hall, Suite 300 Los Angeles, CA 90095 (310) 206-5082 mraphael@ioes.ucla.edu Website Dr. Marilyn Raphael is Professor of Geography at UCLA and served as Department Chair from 2010-2013. Her primary research focus is Southern Hemisphere (SH) atmospheric dynamics and climate change and her major scientific goals are to characterize the Antarctic sea ice variability and to define and understand the interaction between Antarctic sea ice and the large-scale Southern Hemisphere circulation, focusing on interaction at the seasonal, interannual and decadal time scales. Her work includes global climate modeling with an emphasis on improving the simulation of sea ice and the atmosphere in the Southern Hemisphere. She is a member of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences, current Chair of the Scientific Committee on Antarctic Research’s expert group, Antarctic Sea ice Processes and Climate (ASPeCt) and Co-Chair of the World Climate Research Programme’s (WCRP) Polar Climate Predictability Initiative (PCPI). She has served on the National Research Council’s Committees on Future Science Opportunities in Antarctica and the Southern Ocean and Stabilization Targets for Atmospheric Greenhouse Gas Concentrations. Education B.A. (Hons) Geography, McMaster University, Canada M.A. Geography, The Ohio State University Ph.D. Geography, The Ohio State University Research Interests Southern Hemisphere Atmospheric Circulation Dynamics and Climate, Antarctic Sea Ice Variability and change, Global Climate Modelling, The Santa Ana Winds of California. Related Articles Talking solutions with Marilyn Raphael, director of UCLA’s Institute of the Environment and Sustainability Antarctic sea ice level could reach record low in 2022, UCLA climate scientist says Recent News Earth Day 2022: Director Marilyn Raphael discusses climate solutions Marilyn Raphael in The New York Times: Sea Ice Around Antarctica Reaches a Record Low Marilyn Raphael elected president of American Association of Geographers Marilyn Raphael on Climate and Justice Join the IoES Mailing List Leave this field empty if you're human: Stay Connected Twitter Twitter Instagram Instagram LinkedIn Linkedin YouTube Youtube GitHub Github Facebook Facebook Press Inquiries Jobs Forms Directions Contact Information Logos Supporting Nursing Mothers at UCLA © The Regents of the University of California. All rights reserved. Terms of Use/Privacy Policy