Skip to main content UTexas Home Alumni Current Students Justice, Equity, Diversity & Inclusion Events News Giving Professional Development LBJ School of Public Affairs Search Search Apply Give Menu The University of Texas at Austin LBJ School of Public Affairs Alumni Current Students Justice, Equity, Diversity & Inclusion Events News Giving Professional Development Search Search Apply Give Degree Programs Expand Master of Public Affairs Master of Global Policy Studies DC Concentration (MPAff/MGPS) Ph.D. in Public Policy Admissions Expand How to Apply Tuition and Funding Experience the LBJ School Frequently Asked Questions Faculty and Research Expand Faculty Centers Research and Publications Student Experience Expand Facts & Figures The LBJ Advantage Policy Research Projects Student Organizations Career Management Expand Career Outcomes Internship Experience Recruit an LBJ Student Student Professional Development LBJ Women's Campaign School Home Earn your degree in 15 months at LBJ's Washington Center DC Concentration Build a future on a legacy of bold, fearless action. This is the world’s modern policy laboratory. It’s the arena we call home. LBJ celebrates the class of 2022: WATCH our graduation ceremony The LBJ School celebrates the Class of 2022 on May 21, 2022. Learn more details about Graduation 2022—and watch the ceremony on the LBJ School's YouTube channel.Read more Alyssa Goessler (MGPS/Middle Eastern Studies '22) finds her place in space policyRead more Derreck DaSilva (MPAff '22) discovers a new direction: from nursing to policyRead more Earn your degree in 15 months at LBJ's Washington Center DC Concentration Alyssa Goessler (MGPS/Middle Eastern Studies '22) finds her place in space policyRead more Derreck DaSilva (MPAff '22) discovers a new direction: from nursing to policyRead more Protect Texas Together The latest on UT policies, testing, vaccinations, COVID dashboard and more Virtually visit the LBJ School Take our 360-degree tour 4 top ranked graduate degree programs Get ready to engage and lead LBJ ranked in the top 10 for the fifth straight year U.S. News & World Report: 7 programs are top ranked Facts and figures From number of students to dual degree offerings, see the LBJ School by the numbers How to attend a prospective student info session RSVP now Meet the 65 women leaders looking to explore elected office LBJ Women's Campaign School welcomes its third cohort Work at LBJ: Now hiring full-time faculty 2022-23 Professional Track Faculty — Policy Communications What We’re SayingMore @TheLBJSchool on Twitter » The LBJ School TheLBJSchool LBJ School is offering a semester in DC for current MPAff/MGPS students. Applications are open now through June 1… https://t.co/8DJU0KdTmC 3 ds ago reply2 retweet star The LBJ School TheLBJSchool #FeatureFriday: Meet Dr. Nancy La Vigne (MPAff '91), the new @OJPNIJ director. @NIJDirLaVigne still draws from the… https://t.co/XhjojOIR5E 3 ds ago reply2 retweet star Upcoming Events 2022 PPIA Public Service Weekend: Emerging Public Policy Issues in Texas & the American South Friday Jul 22 9:00 am to Sunday Jul 24 1:30 pm LBJ School The application for the LBJ School's inaugural PPIA Public Service Weekend is now open until June 14, 2022. The event is a three-day conference empowering undergraduate students from historically underrepresented backgrounds to consider graduate degree programs and careers in public service. The primary goal of the event is to introduce students to topics in the field of public policy through the lens of justice, equity, diversity and inclusion. Read more LBJ School of Public Affairs Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube Flickr LBJ Communications Calendar Contact Faculty & Staff Resources LBJ Legacy Emergency Information Site Policies Web Accessibility Policy Web Privacy Policy (512) 471-3200 © The University of Texas at Austin 2022