Skip to main content Skip to main content Degree Programs Perkins Chapel Bridwell Library Skip to main content Apply Apply Give Give Contact Us Contact Us Follow Us Follow Us Facebook Follow Us Twitter Follow Us YouTube Follow Us Social Stream Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. Navigate Search Skip to main content Perkins School of Theology About About Mission Perkins United Methodist Seminaries Accreditation Statement of Educational Effectiveness Executive Board History Administration and Staff Habito Labyrinth Directions Campus Map Faculty & Academics Faculty & Academics Academic Services Bridwell Library Degree Programs Faculty by Teaching Area Faculty Listing A-Z Faculty Publications Perkins Video Library Global Theological Education Home Hybrid Houston-Galveston Extension Program Degree Interest Areas Perkins Intern Program Other Academic Programs Spiritual Formation Program Emeritus Faculty Open Faculty Positions Admission Admission Connect Visit Campus Apply Affording Seminary Admit Portal Student Life Student Life Academic Services Student Engagement Student Resources Alumni/ae & Friends Alumni/ae & Friends Update Your Records How to Get Involved Publications and News Events | Calendar Perkins Scholarship Luncheon Faith and Business Luncheon Series Distinguished Alumnus/a Award Seals Laity Award Make a Gift to Perkins News News News Archives Perkins Perspective Events Calendar External Programs and Centers External Programs and Centers Perkins Summit for Faith & Learning Certificate in Practical Ministry Certificate in Spiritual Direction Perkins Fall Convocation | November 15 - 16, 2021 Webinars & Hybrid Events Perkins School of Youth Ministry Course of Study | Curso de Estudio Center for Methodist Studies Center for Preaching Excellence Center for Religious Leadership Center for the Study of Latino/a Christianity and Religions El Programa de Ministerios Hispan@/Latin@ The Hispanic/Latino/a Ministries Program Video Library Contact Office of External Programs ☰ SMU Perkins School of Theology Student Life Student Life Previous Next pause play hide show Mission Statement The Office of Student Life and Community Engagement offers welcome, hospitality, and care for the diverse community of students, faculty, and staff of Perkins School of Theology. We create opportunities designed to cultivate connections with one another, Southern Methodist University, and the greater community through common meals, social events, programming, and service. We provide experiences beyond the formal classroom setting, through which members of the community may participate in leadership development, vocational exploration, and community building. We listen, connect, support, and celebrate the lives of our students, faculty, and staff. Contact Us Tracy Anne Allred Assistant Dean of Student Life/Director of Community Engagement 214.768.1480 tallred@smu.edu Tracy Anne is passionate about assisting graduate theology students to connect with the opportunities within the Perkins community, services offered on campus, and vital ministries in the area. Do you want to get involved with a student organization or participate in community life? Are you looking for an employment opportunity or housing resources? Would your program of study be enriched by visiting with the leadership of an entrepreneurial ministry? If so, Tracy Anne can be helpful to you. Tracy Anne is a United Methodist with a commitment to the lively ecumenical nature of the student body at Perkins. Please come by Kirby Hall 216 to ask your questions, share your ideas, and contribute to the mission of preparing women and men for faithful leadership in Christian ministry. Laura Figura Coordinator of Student Life 214.768.3371 lfigura@smu.edu Serving as the Coordinator of Student Life, Laura is a great resource for current students. She supports the goals of the Office of Student Life and Community Engagement, co-edits the weekly Perkins News, creates the Look Book, and regularly updates a list of job and housing opportunities. If you are looking for an on-campus resource or have a general question, Laura is a great person to ask. Make an appointment or stop by 216 Kirby Hall. Main Contact The Perkins Student Life Office is open Monday - Friday, 8:30 am - 5:00 pm. The offices are located in Kirby Hall Room 216. Walk-ins and appointments are welcome. Mailing Address: Perkins School of Theology Office of Student Life P.O. Box 750133 Dallas, TX 75275-0133 Physical Address: Perkins School of Theology 5915 Bishop Blvd Office of Student Life Kirby Hall, Rm 216 Dallas, TX 75275 Main: 214.768.3371 Fax: 214.768.4245 Questions about Student Life, Community Engagement, or Perkins News may be sent to: theology@smu.edu Job Board View job board postings Submit a job opportunity Student Life Academic Services Diverse Student Life At Our Seminary Student Resources Join us on Facebook! The Perkins School of Theology Student Services Facebook group is an informal gathering place for students, staff, faculty, alumni, and friends to connect and communicate. Anyone can request to be added to this space and post items for conversation. Join us today! An Academy for the Whole Church in the Whole World Prepare to Serve Our groundbreaking Intern Program allows students to transform classroom knowledge into actual practical experience before graduation. Diverse Community We believe cross-cultural immersion experiences best teach students to build intercultural relationships, resolve cultural conflicts and guide intercultural ventures. Academic Excellence The combination of courses taught by renowned scholars with a diverse list of degree programs best prepares students for a wide variety of roles in ministry. Connect Visit Apply Contact Us Maps and Directions Legal Disclosures © SMU Perkins School of Theology, PO Box 750133, Dallas, TX 75275-0133 214-768-8436 or 1-888-843-6564 twitter facebook youtube share