Skip to main content Skip to main navigation Open Mobile Navigation Women's and Gender Studies About Us Minor Requirements & All Courses Current Courses Offered Faculty Research Beth Allison Barr Natalie Carnes J. Lenore Wright Events Dr. Anne Boyd Rioux Lecture Fim Screening of 'Suffragette' (2015) Lucy Rider Meyer and the New Christian Woman” Women's History Month Lecture Women's History Month events Women's Collections Women's and Gender Studies Women's and Gender Studies (WGS) are the interdisciplinary studies of the human experience that places women and gender at the center of scholarly inquiry. The WGS program emphasizes the intellectual, artistic, political, social, economic, and spiritual contributions of women, which traditional scholarship long overlooked or denigrated. Explore Declare Minor Faculty Current Courses Requirements Events The Making of Biblical Womanhood Author Beth Allison Barr is Professor of History and Associate Dean of the Graduate School at Baylor University, where she specializes in medieval history, women's history, and church history. She is the president of the Conference on Faith and History and is a member of Christians for Biblical Equality. More about The Making of Biblical Womanhood Motherhood: A Confession Author Natalie Carnes is Associate Professor of Theology in the Department of Religion at Baylor University, where she teaches feminist theology and religion classes. She has published two books, most recently Image and Presence (Stanford, 2017), and multiple articles and online essays, including pieces on Pope Rihanna and nursing Madonnas. More about Motherhood: A Confession Athena to Barbie Author J. Lenore Wright is Associate Professor of Philosophy and Interdisciplinary Studies and Director of the Academy for Teaching and Learning at Baylor University. Dr. Wright is an active publisher and reviewer in the field of feminist philosophy, a recipient of several grants and awards, and a regular contributor to the scholarship of teaching and learning. More About Athena to Barbie Women's and Gender Studies Dr. Theresa Varney Kennedy, Director of Women's and Gender Studies Professor of French theresa_kennedy@baylor.edu About Us Minor Back Requirements & All Courses Current Courses Offered Faculty Research Back Beth Allison Barr Natalie Carnes J. Lenore Wright Events Back Dr. Anne Boyd Rioux Lecture Fim Screening of 'Suffragette' (2015) Lucy Rider Meyer and the New Christian Woman” Women's History Month Lecture Women's History Month events Women's Collections General Information Academics & Research Administration Admissions Gateways for ... About Baylor Athletics Ask Baylor Bookstore Calendar Campus Map Directory Give Light Give to Baylor Illuminate News Pro Futuris Search Social Media Baylor Libraries College of Arts & Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work George W. Truett Theological Seminary Graduate School Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Louise Herrington School of Nursing Research at Baylor University Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Engineering & Computer Science School of Music More Academics Athletics Human Resources Marketing and Communications Office of General Counsel Office of the President Office of the Provost Operations, Finance & Administration Senior Administration Student Life University Advancement Undergraduate Admissions goBAYLOR Graduate Admissions Baylor Law School Admissions Social Work Graduate Programs George W. Truett Theological Seminary Admissions Online Graduate Professional Education Virtual Tour Visit Campus Alumni & Friends Faculty & Staff Online Graduate Professional Education Parents Prospective Faculty & Staff Prospective Students Students Accessibility Anonymous Reporting Annual Fire Safety and Security Notice Digital Privacy Legal Disclosures Mental Health Resources Report It Title IX Copyright © Baylor® University. All rights reserved. Baylor University • Waco, Texas 76798 • 1-800-229-5678