Directory Students Faculty/Staff Alumni Give Menu Information for: Directory Students Faculty/Staff Alumni Navigation: About History William H. Gates Hall Faculty and Staff Directory ABA Required Disclosures Contact Us Calendar Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Academics J.D. Program LL.M. Programs M.J. Program Ph.D. in Law Experiential Learning Programs, Centers & Projects Undergraduate Student Journals Course Catalog Continuing Legal Education Admissions J.D. Admissions LL.M. Admissions M.J. Admissions Ph.D. Admissions Paying for Law School Visit and Connect Student Life Student Support Academic Success Programs Diversity LGBTQIA Resources Student Ambassadors Student Organizations UW Law & the Military MyLaw Student On-Campus Log (UW NetID) Careers JD Career Development Graduate Career Development William H. Gates Public Service Law Program Gregoire Fellows Program Employment Statistics Information for Employers Professional Education Mentoring and Mock Interview Programs Faculty & Scholarship Featured Faculty Scholarship Recent Scholarship Recent Presentations Visiting Scholars Shefelman Faculty Workshops Faculty Directory Media Guide Library Law Student Resources Faculty & Staff Resources Library Hours Legal Research Guides Gallagher Blogs News & Events News UW Law in the Media Calendar Discovery Podcast UW School of Law Featured News Alumnus Peter Boome Appointed to Bench of the Tulalip Tribes Coast Salish artist and alumnus Peter Boome (JD ’11), a new associate judge for the Tulalip Tribes, reflects on clinical learning at UW Law. Read More Ann Spangler receives UW Outstanding Public Service Award Spangler, along with other Awards of Excellence recipients, will be honored during a ceremony on June 9. The awards recognize members of the UW community for their achievements in teaching, mentoring, public service and staff support. News Message from the Deans: In solidarity with Black and Asian communities following the weekend mass shootings Once again, racist attacks have targeted Black and Asian communities – attacks that call for a societal response. We condemn the racist actions of the gunmen and all attempts to intimidate, harass or harm the Black and Asian communities. News Proximity to the Problem Guest: Filmmaker and sociologist Dr. Gilda Sheppard on the need for systemic re-evaluation to address the culture of punishment that confines children who are sentenced without parole. Discovery Jemimah Kamau and Cristina Rodriguez Named 2022 Equal Justice Works Fellows Kamau (JD, LLM ’22) and Rodriguez, 3L have received a two-year public service fellowship to build sustainable solutions for Black and indigenous Guatemalan women. News REGISTER NOW: Rethinking 1.5: The Case for Science-Based Standards in Constitutional Climate Change Cases The webinar on May 25 will examine the emergent trend of climate advocates citing the Paris Agreement target as the touchstone for government compliance with constitutional and human rights obligations. News Celebrate the Class of 2022 on the Quad Join UW Law for an in-person Commencement on the Quad on June 5 and stay tuned for a special reception to honor the classes of 2020 and 2021 on June 12 at William H. Gates Hall. News Season 4 Now Streaming The fourth season of DISCOVERY is here! Listen now to in-depth conversations about today's biggest legal topics with distinguished guests from around the globe. Enter Discovery Dive Into a Playlist Upcoming at UW Law 2022 BIPOC GRADUATE CELEBRATION Sunday, Jun 5, 2022, 12 - 2 p.m. PDT UW School of Law Commencement 2022 Sunday, Jun 5, 2022, 4 - 7 p.m. PDT 2002 Alliance for Equal Justice Summer Internship Orientation Friday, Jun 17, 2022, 10 a.m. - 3 p.m. PDT Connect with us: Contact Us Privacy Policy Terms ABA Required Disclosures © Copyright 2022, All Rights Reserved University of Washington School of Law 4293 Memorial Way Northeast, Seattle, WA 98195