Skip to main content Main navigation Academics Faculty & Research News & Events Offices & Services About Us Information For Alumni Industry Partners & Recruiters Prospective Students Shortcuts Employment & Jobs Visit Us Make a Gift Search Read the latest updates on coronavirus from Harvard University. For SEAS specific-updates, please visit SEAS & FAS Division of Science: Coronavirus FAQs SearchMenu Academics Applied Physics Graduate Program Harvard School of Engineering and Applied Sciences offers a Doctor of Philosophy (Ph.D) degree in Applied Physics, conferred through the Graduate School of Arts and Sciences. Research in this area focuses on photonics, quantum science and engineering, quantum materials, quantitative biology, soft matter physics, biomaterials and biophysics, and novel materials. Applied Physics at Harvard provides an extraordinary opportunity to further your intellectual curiosity whether you are excited about experiments, developing new instrumentation, theoretical studies, or modeling. The area features a highly-accomplished faculty and a number of world-class facilities and centers, including the Center for Integrated Quantum Materials; the Center for Nanoscale Systems, one of the world's most advanced research facilities housing a shared cleanroom, facilities for materials synthesis, and a microscopy suite; Materials Research Science and Engineering Center; the Kavli Institute for Bionanoscience and Technology; the Quantitative Biology Initiative; the Center for Integrated Mesoscale Architectures for Sustainable Catalysis; and the Wyss Institute for Biologically Inspired Engineering. Please note that admission to the AP Ph.D. program is independent from admission to the Physics Ph.D. at Harvard. While you can transfer between programs within SEAS after being admitted, transfer to a program outside SEAS requires reapplying to that program. Once admitted to the Applied Physics PhD program, you must find a Ph.D. advisor who holds an appointment within SEAS. (Faculty members listed as “Affiliates" can co-advise a Ph.D. student with another Applied Physics faculty member, but cannot serve as the primary research advisor.) The AP program does not offer an independent Masters Degree. Main navigation Information For In Applied Physics Graduate Program How to Apply PhD Timeline PhD Overview and Requirements PhD Model Program (Course Guidelines) Qualifying Exam Committee Meetings Committee on Higher Degrees AB/SM Information Faculty & Research People Courses Clubs & Organizations Centers & Initiatives Alumni Stories Harvard John A. Paulson School of Engineering and Applied Sciences 150 Western Ave, Allston, MA 02134 29 Oxford Street, Cambridge, MA 02138 Footer - Social Media Links Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn © 2022 President and Fellows of Harvard College Footer Diversity Mission Trademark Notice Accessibility Policy Privacy Policy