Search | Directories | Reference Tools UW Home > Discover UW > Student Guide UW Bothell Course Descriptions UW Tacoma Course Descriptions Glossary SCHOOL OF MEDICINE HUMAN BIOLOGY Detailed course offerings (Time Schedule) are available for Spring Quarter 2022 Summer Quarter 2022 Autumn Quarter 2022 HUBIO 500 P-Medical Practice Preceptorship at WWAMI Sites (1, max. 3) Personal experience with, and insight into, medical practice situations. Student is stationed with carefully selected clinical faculty members in their offices in accordance with the student's preference of discipline at the WWAMI sites. Registration limited to first-year medical students at WWAMI sites. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: HUBIO 500 HUBIO 501 P-Human Biology Special Projects (*) Designed for medical students electing a special study project related to the Introduction to Clinical Medicine or other human biology courses, which are offered during the first and second years in the School of Medicine. Primarily intended for students in remedial or extended programs. Prerequisite: permission of assistant dean for curriculum. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: HUBIO 501 HUBIO 505 P-WWAMI Preceptorship (*, max. 6) Opportunity for first-year medical students at WWAMI sites to gain personal experience with medical practice situations by being assigned to selected clinical faculty members in their offices. Offered: ASp. View course details in MyPlan: HUBIO 505 HUBIO 510 P-Microscopic Anatomy: Histology (6) Bermingham-McDonogh Lectures and laboratories in microscopic anatomy designed to provide the principles and concepts of histology, to define the morphological characteristics of the cells, tissues, and organs of the human body, and to relate this information to functional processes studied in concurrent and subsequent courses. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: HUBIO 510 HUBIO 511 P-Human Anatomy and Embryology (8/13) Clark Structural organization of human body at the macroscopic level to provide a foundation for physical examination and functional assessment of the human organism. Integrates embryological development with study of the cadaver and examination of the normal living body. Concentrates on exploration of the body cavities and the viscera they contain. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: HUBIO 511 HUBIO 512 P-Mechanisms in Cell Physiology (5) Detwiler Physiology of the cell membrane, including ionic and electrical potential gradients; active transport, excitability, and action potentials; biophysics of sensory receptors; neuromuscular transmission; muscle energetics and contractility; spinal reflexes and central synaptic transmission; autonomic nervous system; energy metabolism and temperature regulation; epithelial transport; gastrointestinal motility and secretions. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: HUBIO 512 HUBIO 513 P-Introduction to Clinical Medicine (3-) Issac, Maestas Instruction in communication skills and interview techniques to form the basis for the doctor-patient relationship and for the skills of communicating with patients. The patient profile is obtained. Attention to developing comfort in the physician role. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: HUBIO 513 HUBIO 514 P-Biochemistry I-A (4-) Maizels Explores molecular biology of the genome. Examines how the genome serves as a source of information, how molecular understanding of gene function identifies new therapeutic targets and provides new therapeutic and diagnostic tools. Assumes familiarity with fundamental principles, at the level tested in the MCATs. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: HUBIO 514 HUBIO 516 P-Systems of Human Behavior (5) Harrington Effects of behavioral factors in major management problems faced in medical practice relating to cultural background, social role, sexual identity, and belief systems. Acquisition of skills in analyzing behavior, defining objectives, and designing precise treatment strategies. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: HUBIO 516 HUBIO 522 P-Introduction to Clinical Medicine (-4-) Isaac, Maestas Medical history is introduced and instruction in data collection is begun. Experience in conducting medical interviews with patients to obtain the medical history and patient profile. Special problems related to interviewing are addressed. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: HUBIO 522 HUBIO 523 P-Introduction to Immunology (2) Gale Topics covered include: basic concepts such as antigens; antibodies; complement; B-and T-lymphocyte function, including interactions with each other and with accessory cells; immunological tolerance; major histocompatibility complex and role of these basic concepts in immunopathology (immunodeficiencies, hypersensitivities, autoimmunity, blood transfusion, and transplantation). View course details in MyPlan: HUBIO 523 HUBIO 524 P-Biochemistry I-B (-4) Maizels Metabolism as integrated in the organs and tissue of the human body for the purpose of generating energy from food and converting small molecules to essential building block of our cells. Discusses principles of nutrition in the context of human health and disease. Assumes familiarity with fundamental principles, at the level tested in the MCATs. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: HUBIO 524 HUBIO 530 P-Clinical Epidemiology and Evidence-Based Medicine (2) Kestenbaum Community health and disease, including assessment of disease risk and mechanisms of epidemic detection, spread, and control; interpretation of research design, data analysis, bias source; and clinical epidemiology, including evaluation and application of diagnostic tests, natural history of disease, and quantitative aids for clinical decision making. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: HUBIO 530 HUBIO 531 P-Head, Neck, Ear, Nose, and Throat (5) View course details in MyPlan: HUBIO 531 HUBIO 532 P-Nervous System (8) Dacey, Mulligan An integrated approach to the normal structure and function of the nervous system, including the eye. Presents neuropathological examples as well as clinical manifestations of neurological disease. View course details in MyPlan: HUBIO 532 HUBIO 534 P-Microbiology and Infectious Disease (9) Moseley An introduction to medical microbiology and infectious diseases. Emphasizes the biology of microbial pathogens and the mechanisms of pathogenesis. Covers clinical manifestations, epidemiology, general principles of diagnosis, therapy, and prevention of infectious disease. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: HUBIO 534 HUBIO 535 P-Introduction to Clinical Medicine (-4) Isaac, Maestas Adult screening physical examination is taught through the use of lecture, audiovisual aids, and small-group tutorial, where students in supervised setting practice the physical examination on one other. Further practice in the performance and recording of the patient profile and medical history. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: HUBIO 535 HUBIO 540 P-Cardiovascular System (6) Feigl Interdisciplinary approach to cardiovascular medicine, including anatomy, physiology, radiology, pathology, medicine, and surgery. Function of the cardiovascular system in health and disease. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: HUBIO 540 HUBIO 541 P-Respiratory System (4) Culver, Luks Interdisciplinary approach to the respiratory system, including anatomy of thorax and lungs, ventilation mechanics, blood-gas transport, gas exchange, acid-base balance, and the physiology and pathology of obstructive, restrictive, and pulmonary-vascular diseases. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: HUBIO 541 HUBIO 542 P-Introduction to Clinical Medicine (4-) McDonough Advanced instruction in interview technique, history taking, and physical examination, with emphasis on detection of abnormalities. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: HUBIO 542 HUBIO 543 P-Principles of Pharmacology I (5) McKnight Includes general principles of pharmacology and the specific pharmacology of major drugs acting on the autonomic and cardiovascular systems. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: HUBIO 543 HUBIO 547 P- Pathology IIA (5) Patterns of cell and tissue response to injury. Mechanisms of cell injury, inflammatory process, thrombosis, normal and abnormal growth, neoplasia, clinicopathological correlation. Major pathologic changes associated with specific diseases in the different organ systems. Multidisciplinary approach to some diseases which effect more than one organ system including cardiovascular, renal, and respiratory. View course details in MyPlan: HUBIO 547 HUBIO 548 P-Cases in Clinical Ethics (1) Provides exposure to key issues in clinical ethics as well as the tools for ethical reasoning and critical thinking that support the student's current and future work. Prerequisite: second-year medical students. Instructors: Edwards, Timberlake View course details in MyPlan: HUBIO 548 HUBIO 550 P-Introduction to Clinical Medicine (-4-) McDonough Advanced instruction in interview technique, history taking, and physical examination, with emphasis on identification of problems and correlation of findings with pathophysiological mechanisms. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: HUBIO 550 HUBIO 551 P-Gastro-Intestinal System (4) Silverstein Anatomy of the gastrointestinal system; physiology and pathology of digestion and hepatic function; and physical and laboratory examination. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: HUBIO 551 HUBIO 552 P-Hematology (3) Richard Familiarizes students with the basic pathophysiologic mechanisms leading to disturbances of red cell, white cell, and platelet production, as well as abnormalities of hemostasis presenting clinical problems. Pathophysiology, rather than minute details of individual disease, is stressed. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: HUBIO 552 HUBIO 553 P-Musculoskeletal System (4) Schmale Gross, surface, applied, and radiographic anatomy. Clinical manifestations in the musculoskeletal system and pathophysiology of trauma, aging, infection, and inflammation, as well as congenital and metabolic disorders. Dissections, physical examinations, and problem- based learning. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: HUBIO 553 HUBIO 554 P-Genetics (2) Review of basic genetic principles and their applications in clinical medicine. Includes human chromosomal disorders; patterns of inheritance, genetic counseling, amniocentesis; pathogenesis of hereditary diseases, monogenic and multifactorial; role of genetics in common diseases; behavioral genetics; drug-gene interactions; and prevention and treatment of genetic diseases, including prenatal diagnosis and population screening. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: HUBIO 554 HUBIO 555 P-Medicine, Health, and Society (3) Chen, Masuda Interdisciplinary introduction to health services designed for future healthcare practitioners. Examines the history, organization, and effectiveness of the U.S. healthcare system. Stresses the student's ability to adopt a broad perspective across healthcare disciplines and traditional boundaries. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: HUBIO 555 HUBIO 556 P-Hormones and Nutrients (4) DeSantis Introduction to principles of human endocrinology, metabolism, and nutrition; the physiology and pathophysiology of endocrine systems, glucose and lipid metabolism, and fluid and salt balance; and the importance of proper nutrition in certain disease states. View course details in MyPlan: HUBIO 556 HUBIO 557 P-Pathology IIB (2-) Patterns of cell and tissue response to injury. Mechanisms of cell injury, inflammatory process, thrombosis, normal and abnormal growth, neoplasia, clinicopathological correlation. Major pathologic changes associated with specific diseases in the different organ systems. Multidisciplinary approach to some diseases which effect more than one organ system including cardiovascular, renal, and respiratory. View course details in MyPlan: HUBIO 557 HUBIO 558 P-Rheumatology (1) An intensive immersion course in rheumatology for second year students. Lectures and small group patient demonstrations link concepts of immunology, pathology and pharmacology with inflammatory and autoimmune disease, teach differential diagnosis of symptoms seen in rheumatic disease and use if diagnostic to demonstrate features of common childhood and adult rheumatic diseases and their management. View course details in MyPlan: HUBIO 558 HUBIO 559 P-Problem Based Learning (3) Scott Teaches students to methodically solve medical problems by gathering, sorting, and interpreting data. Students learn life-long self-education and self-evaluation skills. Provides practice working as a healthcare team by including medical, nursing, and physician assistant students in each group. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: HUBIO 559 HUBIO 560 P-Introduction to Clinical Medicine (-5) McDonough Introduction to clinical and laboratory diagnosis. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: HUBIO 560 HUBIO 562 P-Urinary System (4) Jefferson Anatomy, physiology, and pathology of the kidney, ureter, bladder, and prostate; pathophysiology and treatment of common fluid and electrolyte problems; renal pharmacology; major clinical urinary system syndromes, with current diagnostic approaches and therapy. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: HUBIO 562 HUBIO 565 P-Reproduction (4) Steiner Normal development of the human reproductive system. Sexual differentiation, puberty, endocrine control of testicular and ovarian function, gamete biology, fertilization, implantation, immunology and endocrinology of pregnancy, labor and delivery, pathology of the male and female reproductive organs, contraception, prolactin and lactation, aging and infertility. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: HUBIO 565 HUBIO 566 P-Pathology IIC (-3) Patterns of cell and tissue response to injury. Mechanisms of cell injury, inflammatory process, thrombosis, normal and abnormal growth, neoplasia, clinicopathological correlation. Major pathologic changes associated with specific diseases in the different organ systems. Multidisciplinary approach to some diseases which effect more than one organ system including cardiovascular, renal, and respiratory. View course details in MyPlan: HUBIO 566 HUBIO 567 P-Skin System (2) Colven Gross and microscopic anatomy. Physiology, protection, temperature control, pigmentation, and photosensitivity. Pathology and genetics of skin abnormalities, including tumors. Introduction to clinical evaluation, including physical examination and illustrating examples of inflammatory, vascular, immunological (including drug hypersensitivity), and neoplastic diseases. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: HUBIO 567 HUBIO 569 P-Mind, Brain, and Behavior (6) O. PASCUALY Defines and describes major psychiatric disorders and presents a systematic approach to differential diagnosis. Discusses conceptual development, pathogenesis, epidemiology, nomenclature, and the terminology used in psychiatry; along with physiological and biochemical mechanisms, and therapeutic and adverse effects. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: HUBIO 569 HUBIO 590 P-Medical Information for Decision Making (1) Introduction to methods for: a) identifying and retrieving high quality, relevant documents for clinical decision making, b) applying rigorous criteria when reading primary research studies, reviews of primary studies, or other medical information sources that report on the effectiveness of therapeutic or preventive interventions. Prerequisite: first-year medical students. Instructors: Tarczy-Hornoch Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: HUBIO 590 HUBIO 591 P-WWAMI Non-clinical Selectives - Pullman (*, max. 30) Courses offered at WWAMI university site in Pullman designed to satisfy the non-clinical selective graduation requirements for medical students. Offered: AWSp. View course details in MyPlan: HUBIO 591 HUBIO 592 P-WWAMI Non-clinical Selectives - Spokane (*, max. 30) Courses offered at WWAMI university site in Spokane designed to satisfy the non-clinical selective graduation requirements for medical students. Offered: AWSp. View course details in MyPlan: HUBIO 592 HUBIO 593 P-WWAMI Non-clinical Selectives - Laramie (*, max. 30) Courses offered at WWAMI university site in Laramie, WY designed to satisfy the non-clinical selective graduation requirements for medical students. Offered: AWSp. View course details in MyPlan: HUBIO 593 HUBIO 594 P-WWAMI Non-clinical Selectives - Anchorage (*, max. 30) Courses offered at WWAMI university site in Anchorage, designed to satisfy the non-clinical selective graduation requirements for medical students. Offered: AWSp. View course details in MyPlan: HUBIO 594 HUBIO 595 P-Independent Investigative Inquiry, GHIP (8) S. GRAHAM With faculty mentorship, students investigate a global health issue, work on a community health project, and create an academic poster. Prerequisite: GHIP students only. Offered: S. View course details in MyPlan: HUBIO 595 HUBIO 596 P-WWAMI Non-Clinical Selectives - Bozeman (*, max. 30) Courses offered at WWAMI university site in Bozeman, designed to satisfy the non-clinical selective graduation requirements for medical students. Offered: AWSp. View course details in MyPlan: HUBIO 596 HUBIO 598 P-WWAMI Non-Clinical Selectives - Moscow (*, max. 30) Courses offered at WWAMI university site in Moscow, ID, designed to satisfy the non-clinical selective graduation requirement for medical students. Offered: AWSp. View course details in MyPlan: HUBIO 598 HUBIO 599 P-Independent Study in Medical Science (6) Independent research with faculty sponsor and completion of paper as partial fulfillment of non-clinical selective graduation requirement. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: HUBIO 599 HUBIO 600 P-Capstone Course: Preparation for Residency (2, max. 4) A combination of large group lectures and small group discussions and workshops reviewing clinical skills in history-taking and physical examinations, imaging studies, common and emergency drugs, ACLS, infectious disease control, common clinical problems, and other topics that are encountered in residency training. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: HUBIO 600 Office of the University Registrar registrar@uw.edu Modified: May 30, 2022