Covid-19: Get the latest updates here Apply to JTS Contact Campus Life Alumni Get Email Updates Donate Now Search About Higher Education Emergency Relief Fund Leadership History JTS and Israel Conservative Judaism Offices & Resources Policies Accreditation Visit JTS Admissions List College Admissions Davidson School Admissions Rabbinical School Admissions Gershon Kekst Graduate School Admissions H. L. Miller Cantorial School Admissions Take a Virtual Tour Academics Academics School List College The William Davidson School The Rabbinical School The Gershon Kekst Graduate School H. L. Miller Cantorial School Faculty & Scholars Faculty & Scholars Center & Institutes Center for Pastoral Education Block / Kolker Center for Spiritual Arts The Hendel Center for Ethics and Justice Milstein Center for Interreligious Dialogue Louis Finkelstein Institute for Religious & Social Studies Research Institutes Summer Programs Nishma Summer Sessions Summer Hebrew Language Courses Professional Training Professional Training CONTINUING EDUCATION FOR CLERGY The Rabbinic Training Institute (RTI) Summer Rabbinic Learning Conference Online Learning for Rabbis and Cantors FOR JEWISH EDUCATORS Day School Leadership Training Institute (DSLTI) Jewish Early Childhood Education Leadership Institute (JECELI) Ivriyon: Hebrew Immersion Institute for Day School Educators Jewish Day School Standards and Benchmarks FOR OTHER PROFESSIONALS NAASE Week of Study Community Learning Community Learning ONLINE Live Online Classes JTS Torah Online BEYOND THE CAMPUS JTS Learning in Your Community Courses and Curricula LEARNING EVENTS Public Lectures and Events FOR 8TH-12TH GRADERS Prozdor Teen Learning Library About The Library Letter from the Librarian Library Services The New JTS Library Library Programs and Events Library Online Exhibits Special Collections JTS Library Membership Email a Librarian News & Events News Events Academic Calendar Center for Pastoral Education Academics Center for Pastoral Education The Center for Pastoral Education at JTS Every day, spiritual leaders are called on to provide comfort, guidance, and support to people in crisis. The Center for Pastoral Education has set a new standard in preparing them to receive these calls, through a transformative educational process that is grounded in Jewish tradition, and open and relevant to people of all faiths. Programs in Clinical Pastoral Education The center provides clinical pastoral education (CPE) students—seminarians, clergy, and professionals—with intensive training in hospice rooms, nursing homes, soup kitchens, and congregational settings, supported by expert certified educators. Our renowned center is one of only a few accredited seminary-based programs, equipping participants to respond to the need for pastoral care with a unique combination of psychological principles and Jewish wisdom enriched by intensive multi-faith engagement. We offer full-time and flexible part-time options to allow seminarians, clergy, and professionals from all faith traditions and Jewish movements to pursue pastoral training on a timeline that best suits them. JTS Rabbinical and Cantorial students complete a 400-hour unit of CPE as part of their training. Explore our programs The Certificate in Pastoral Care and Counseling The CPCC curriculum integrates academic learning and professional skills with religious and personal identity formation. Future clergy and religious professionals acquire the pastoral training—shaped by Jewish values and texts—that will help them serve the diverse needs of their congregants, clients, and students with compassion and creativity. Learn about the certificate program Tuition and Stipends Tuition for full units of CPE is $800, and tuition for the Clergy and Religious Leaders Half Unit Program is $900. Scholarships and Stipends are available for individuals of all faith traditions enrolled in our Part-Time Academic and Full-Time Summer Units. Financial aid is available to students enrolled in the Clergy and Religious Leaders Half Unit Program on a case-by-case basis. All requests for financial aid must be submitted in writing before the program begins via email to infocpe@jtsa.edu. JTS rabbinical and cantorial students are also eligible to receive the Paul A. Kaplan Memorial Fellowship in Pastoral Care. All tuition and fees are non-refundable. Events Jun 1 The Center for Pastoral Education Benefit Luncheon JTS Join us to honor Linda S. Golding with the Pastoral Care Leadership Award and Harold Wolfe with the Charles H. Revson Award. Read More View More Events Director Naomi Kalish Harold and Carole Wolfe Director of the Center for Pastoral Education; Assistant Professor of Pastoral Education Rabbi Naomi Kalish is the Harold and Carole Wolfe Director of the Center for Pastoral Education and assistant professor of Pastoral Education. Prior to coming to JTS, Rabbi Kalish taught clinical pastoral education (CPE) at New York–Presbyterian Hospital to students from diverse religious, denominational, national, and cultural backgrounds. Rabbi Kalish has served on the Interprofessional Education Faculty at Columbia University Medical Center. She has taught chaplaincy and pastoral care courses and programs for the Academy for Jewish Religion, Yeshivat Chovevei Torah, Yeshivat Maharat, and JTS. Rabbi Kalish has extensive experience in interreligious dialogue and its application for peace-building and community relations. She earned her BA from Tufts University and an MA in Jewish Philosophy and rabbinic ordination from JTS. She is a doctoral candidate in Education and Jewish Studies at New York University. Read More SHARE THIS PAGE MAKE A GIFT TO SUPPORT PASTORAL EDUCATION AT JTS GIVE NOW Connect with the Center for Pastoral Education at JTS Send us your contact info and we'll be happy to reach out and answer your questions. First Name(Required) Last Name(Required) Email(Required) RESOURCES Current Students Faculty & Scholars CONNECT WITH US Get Email Updates Visit Give Social Media © The Jewish Theological Seminary All Rights Reserved | בית המדרש ללימודי יהדות 3080 Broadway, New York, NY 10027 Privacy Policy x Share This Page From Name(Required) From Email(Required) To Email(Required) Message