Columbia University in the City of New York Languages Columbia Language Portal Shared Course Initiative NYU Conversation Practice Proficiency Testing Events Resources Distance Teaching Resources Conversation Practice SLA Reading Group Instructional Innovation Workshops Faculty Projects Conferences and Symposia Media Library Said & Done Podcast About Mission Team Contact Select Page Languages at Columbia Columbia University offers 50+ languages every semester, among the highest of any US university. Learn More Dynamic Language Courses Columbia language courses are dynamic and engaging, and are led by a language faculty committed to excellence. Learn More A Multilingual City New York City is one of the most linguistically rich environments on Earth. As you advance in your language study, you will be able to engage with a community in which your chosen language is spoken. Learn More From Columbia to the World Columbia has a wealth of opportunities for furthering your language study beyond the borders of the university. Learn More EXPLORE Columbia University Language Portal The Shared Course Initiative Faculty Projects Said & Done Podcast LRC Youtube Channel Events at the LRC The Language Resource Center regularly hosts reading groups, workshops, and symposia for language faculty specifically, and for the broader language community as well. These include the Second Language Acquisition Reading Group, the Instructional Innovation Workshops, and talks by invited guests. In addition, the LRC aggregates information about language tables, foreign language film clubs, and other language events for students. View Events Calendar Subscribe to the LRC Newsletter The LRC Newsletter is a crucial link between the center and the Columbia language community. It provides a regular email update of the latest events, technology tips, lesson ideas, and professional development opportunities. Subscribe Columbia LRC on Twitter 420 W 118th Street 353 International Affairs Bldg New York, NY 10027 Follow Follow Follow Follow lrc@columbia.edu 212-854-9224 Operating Hours Monday-Friday 9:00am-5:00pm