skip to main content University of Nevada, Reno Homepage Apply Visit News Give Search www.unr.edu Search www.unr.edu Search Search www.unr.edu Search www.unr.edu Quicklinks Expand or Collapse to view popular links for this site Alumni Faculty & Staff Parents Students Academic Calendar Campus Catalog Directory Email Access Library Maps MyNevada WebCampus Workday Zoom Login Menu Expand or Collapse to view links grouped by top level headings Quicklinks Alumni Faculty & Staff Parents Students Academic Calendar Campus Catalog Directory Email Access Library Maps MyNevada WebCampus Workday Zoom Login Majors Minors Master's degrees Doctoral degrees Online programs Certificates & licensures Apply Visit News Give Degrees and Programs Majors Minors Master's degrees Doctoral degrees Online programs Certificates & licensures Bachelor's degree programs We've got more than 145 undergraduate programs, covering a wide range of disciplines and professional programs. Request information Find your major Finding your major lets you combine your skills and passions with an academic course of study that prepares you for future career success or further study in graduate school. Explore our bachelor's degree programs and learn how to connect with an admissions representative to get more information. What do you want to study? Accounting (B.S., Minor) The accounting major provides students with the theories and procedures necessary to prepare them for the many facets of the accounting profession, such as public, managerial, tax and government accounting. Students gain the knowledge base and conceptual infrastructure needed to make valuable contributions as business professionals in a global economy. Bachelor of Science in Accounting Request information about the B.S. in Accounting Academic advising for accounting students B.S. in Accounting, Course Catalog Close Accounting & Information Systems (B.S.) This major combines accounting and information systems classes to produce broad knowledge of both areas, including technical management, communication and accounting theories and procedures. Students use this major most frequently to pursue employment with consulting organizations that market, implement and maintain business information systems. Bachelor of Science in Accounting and Information Systems Request information about the B.S. in Accounting and Information Systems Academic advising for accounting and information systems students Bachelor of Science in Accounting and Information Systems, Course Catalog Close Agricultural Economics (Dual Degree in Agricultural Science and Economics) This unique programs offers students the opportunity to combine a B.S. in agricultural science and a B.A. in economics in four years. You'll study agriculture science while also gaining a strong understanding of markets, trade and resource allocation. Dual degree in agricultural science and economics Request information about the dual degree program in agricultural science and economics Academic advising for agricultural science and economics students Dual degree in agricultural science and economics, Course Catalog Close Agricultural Science (B.S.) The agricultural science major provides students with professional training in agricultural system management and a strong foundation for a career in land use management. In addition to rangeland livestock production courses, the curriculum spans a variety of disciplines, allowing students to become knowledgeable in animal science, wildlife science, soils, botany and ecology. Bachelor of Science in Agricultural Science Request information about the B.S. in Agricultural Science Academic advising for agricultural science students Bachelor of Science in Agricultural Science, Course Catalog Close Anthropology (B.A., Minor) Anthropology is a unique discipline that operates at the crossroads of the physical sciences, social sciences and humanities to examine the diversity of human experience across cultures and over time. Because of this breadth of focus, anthropology is highly relevant to understanding and living in a rapidly changing world. Bachelor of Arts in Anthropology Request information about the B.A. in Anthropology Academic advising for anthropology students Bachelor of Arts in Anthropology, Course Catalog Close Art (B.A., BFA, Minor) Instruction combines studio and art history classes with diverse studies in the liberal arts. Full discipline concentrations in the areas of art education, art history, ceramics, digital and time-based media, drawing, painting, photography, printmaking and sculpture are available, as well as experiences in the areas of performance art, gallery management and videography. Bachelor's degree in art Request information about the bachelor's degree in art Academic advising for art students B.A. in Art, Catalog Listing BFA in Art, Catalog Listing Close Art History (B.A., Minor) This program includes courses spanning the ancient world to the present with emphasis on the Middle Ages to global contemporary art. Students are introduced to a range of different methodological models and critically examine how art, architecture, design and visual culture intersect with social, cultural, political and economic contexts. Bachelor of Arts in Art History Request information about the Bachelor of Arts in Art History Academic advising for art history students Bachelor of Arts in Art History, Course Catalog Close Atmospheric Science (B.S., Minor) Atmospheric sciences encompasses many areas of study that explore the atmosphere's physical characteristics, motions and processes, and how these influence the environment and human life. Students learn to interpret and predict weather patterns, analyze climate trends, monitor air quality and work in a variety of agencies, laboratories, businesses and educational institutions. Bachelor of Science in Atmospheric Science Request information about the Bachelor of Science in Atmospheric Science Academic advising for atmospheric science students Bachelor of Science in Atmospheric Science, Course Catalog Close Biochemistry and Molecular Biology (B.S.) Biochemistry and molecular biology is at the forefront of some of today's most advanced scientific pursuits. Many of the world's most vexing problems -- disease, famine, environmental degradation -- are targets of modern biochemical research. By earning a bachelor's in biochemistry and molecular biology, students can join the effort to address these issues and help the world better understand life's most fundamental components. Bachelor of Science in Biochemistry and Molecular Biology Request information about the Bachelor of Science in Biochemistry and Molecular Biology Academic advising for biochemistry and molecular biology students B.S. in Biochemistry and Molecular Biology, Course Catalog Close Biology (B.S., Minor) The Department of Biology provides a strong foundation for either a career in the biological sciences at graduation or to further professional training in fields such as medicine, health sciences, conservation biology, wildlife biology and biotechnology. Biology majors choose to follow either an ecology/evolution curricular track or a cell/molecular track. Bachelor of Science in Biology Request information about the Bachelor of Science in Biology Academic advising for biology students Bachelor of Science in Biology, Course Catalog Close Biomedical Engineering (B.S.) Biomedical engineering is a highly interdisciplinary field that includes experts in cell biology, electrical engineering, chemical engineering, pharmaceuticals, medicine and many more fields. Our biomedical engineering program emphasizes the fundamentals of electrical engineering, including instrumentation, sensors, signal processing and advanced image processing. Bachelor of Science in Biomedical Engineering Request information about the Bachelor of Science in Biomedical Engineering Academic advising for biomedical engineering students Bachelor of Science in Biomedical Engineering, Course Catalog Close Biotechnology (B.S./M.S.) The biotechnology program aims to produce well-trained researchers with theoretical knowledge, technical skills and real-world experience based on both academic research experiences and internships in the biotechnology industry. This accelerated, five-year degree program gives students both a bachelor's and master's degree upon completion. Bachelor of Science in Biotechnology Request information about the Bachelor of Science in Biotechnology Academic advising for biotechnology students Bachelor of Science in Biotechnology, Course Catalog Close Business (B.S., Minor) Today's business leaders face increasingly complex responsibilities, demanding extensive knowledge of all functional areas of business. Maintaining and enhancing managerial and leadership capital is key to success. The objective of the business degree is to prepare students for managerial and executive positions. Bachelor of Science in General Business Request information about the B.S. in General Business Academic advising for general business students Bachelor of Science in General Business, Course Catalog Close Chemical Engineering (B.S.) Chemical engineering emphasizes physics, chemistry, mathematics, biology and creativity to solve problems, from developing new pharmaceuticals safely and efficiently to creating clean and inexpensive fuels for energy conservation and pollution prevention. Our degree programs provide both breadth of knowledge within chemical engineering and depth of knowledge in a particular area. Bachelor of Science in Chemical Engineering Request information about the Bachelor of Science in Chemical Engineering Academic advising for chemical engineering students Bachelor of Science in Chemical Engineering, Course Catalog Close Chemistry (B.S., Minor) Chemistry is the science of the structure, reactions, energetics and control of matter. In addition to its widely recognized importance as a fundamental science, chemistry is central to the continued development of engineered materials, energy technology, pharmaceuticals and biotechnology, nanotechnology and novel computational technologies. Bachelor of Science in Chemistry Request information about the Bachelor of Science in Chemistry Academic advising for chemistry students Bachelor of Science in Chemistry, Course Catalog Close Civil Engineering (B.S., Minor) Graduates of the civil engineering program are prepared to handle the nation's increasing demand for infrastructure projects like expanded transportation, energy-efficient construction, water supply and pollution control systems. Bachelor of Science in Civil Engineering Request information about the Bachelor of Science in Civil Engineering Academic advising for civil engineering students Bachelor of Science in Civil Engineering, Course Catalog Close Communication Studies (B.A., Minor) The academic program in communication studies emphasizes training in oral communication skills and the cognitive principles and strategies that support them. The refinement of communication skills in public, interpersonal, small group and organizational contexts is central to both personal and professional growth. Bachelor of Arts Communication Studies Request information about the Bachelor of Arts Communication Studies Academic advising for communication studies students Bachelor of Arts Communication Studies, Course Catalog Close Computer Science & Engineering (B.S., Minor) Rapid advances in computing technology have made computer science and engineering part of your everyday life. Our degree programs train students in the step-by-step approach and rigorous analysis needed to find the best way to solve problems in computer science and engineering. Bachelor of Science in Computer Science & Engineering Request more information about the Bachelor of Science in Computer Science & Engineering Academic advising for computer science and engineering students Bachelor of Science in Computer Science & Engineering, Course Catalog Close Computational Linguistics (B.S.) Computational linguistics brings the power of computing to the study of human languages. From voice assistants and automated translation to advanced study of linguistic patterns, computational linguists are on the forefront of new language-based technology. Bachelor of Science in Computational Linguistics Request more information about the Bachelor of Science in Computational Linguistics Bachelor of Science in Computational Linguistics, Course Catalog Close Criminal Justice (B.A.) Criminal Justice is an interdisciplinary field, drawing on theory developed in sociology, law, psychology, political science and related fields. Those who major in the field commonly advance to careers as police officers, lawyers, judges, probation officers or detectives, to name just a few possibilities. Bachelor of Arts in Criminal Justice Request information about the Bachelor of Arts in Criminal Justice Academic advising for criminal justice students Bachelor of Arts in Criminal Justice, Course Catalog Close Dance (B.A., Minor) The major in dance allows students to engage in the rigorous physical practice of dance training, while simultaneously developing a deep understanding of the historical, cultural and performative lineage that underpins the field of dance. Bachelor of Arts in Dance Request information about the Bachelor of Arts in Dance Academic advising for dance students Bachelor of Arts in Dance, Course Catalog Close Economics (B.A., B.A., Minor) The economics major is designed to prepare students for positions as economic and statistical analysts in business, government and nonprofit organizations, and for the teaching profession. In addition, it provides a strong foundation for graduate study and research in the fields of economics, business, public policy and law. Bachelor's degree in economics Request information about the bachelor's degree in economics Academic advising for economics students B.A. in economics, Course Catalog B.S. in economics, Course Catalog Close Elementary Education (B.S.) This innovative program prepares you to be an elementary teacher in Nevada for grades K-8. In addition, you earn an additional license or endorsement that enables you to be effective and prepared for today's diverse classrooms with instruction in early childhood education, special education and teaching English as a second language. Bachelor of Science in Integrated Elementary Teaching Request information about the B.S. in elementary teaching Academic advising for elementary education students Bachelor of Science in Integrated Elementary Teaching, Course Catalog Close Electrical Engineering (B.S., Minor) A degree in electrical engineering prepares students to develop solutions to problems, including generating and regulating electric power, manipulating signals for communication purposes and designing specialized circuits. In addition to receiving a well-rounded education in electrical engineering, students in the program can pursue an emphasis in biomedical engineering or renewable energy. Bachelor of Science in Electrical Engineering Request information about the Bachelor of Science in Electrical Engineering Academic advising for electrical engineering students Bachelor of Science in Electrical Engineering, Course Catalog Close Engineering Physics (B.S., Minor) Engineering physics is designed for the student who desires a background in engineering science, based on a firm foundation of physics, as well as an introduction to computer science. The program is also for students who would like to pursue graduate studies in physics or engineering. Bachelor of Science in Engineering Physics Request information about the Bachelor of Science in Engineering Physics Academic advising for engineering physics students Bachelor of Science in Engineering Physics, Course Catalog Close English (B.A., Minor) The Department of English offers programs leading to the degree of bachelor of arts, master of arts, master of fine arts and doctor of philosophy in English. The programs provide a strong liberal arts education; prepare students for careers in education, writing, business, publishing and more; and enable them to compete for graduate programs. Bachelor's degree in English Request information about the bachelor's degree in English Academic advising for English students English (Language and Linguistics Specialization), Course Catalog English (Literature Specialization), Course Catalog English (Writing Specialization), Course Catalog Close Environmental Engineering (B.S., Minor) Environmental engineers use their expertise to improve human health, the environment and quality of life. For example, environmental engineers may help purify drinking water, prevent water pollution or develop strategies to manage toxic or hazardous waste. Bachelor of Science in Environmental Engineering Request information about the Bachelor of Science in Environmental Engineering Academic advising for environmental engineering students Bachelor of Science in Environmental Engineering, Course Catalog Close Environmental Science (B.S., Minor) The environmental science program provides students with a foundation in environmental sciences and an understanding of social values and the political implications associated with environmental decision-making. This highly interdisciplinary major encourages students to focus in areas such as environmental pollution, policy, ecological restoration & conservation, and soil science and biogeochemistry. Bachelor of Science in Environmental Science Request information about the Bachelor of Science in Environmental Science Academic advising for environmental science students Close Finance (B.S.) A finance degree can be an excellent start for anyone seeking a career in financial management, banking, investments or insurance. Successful financiers not only grasp the many complex forces at work in finance, they also analyze how these forces interact, allowing them to point investors and companies toward sensible, comprehensive financial strategies. Bachelor of Science in Finance Request information about the B.S. in Finance Academic advising for finance students Bachelor of Science in Finance, Course Catalog Close Forest Management & Ecology (B.S., Minor) The forest management and ecology program prepares students to manage forest resources from a science-based perspective. Students incorporate the related disciplines of plant and wildlife ecology, hydrology and policy to solve current issues involved in the sustainable management of natural resources. Graduates find careers as park rangers, foresters, wildland fire managers and more. Bachelor of Science in Forest Management & Ecology Request information about the Bachelor of Science in Forest Management & Ecology Academic advising for forest management and ecology students Bachelor of Science in Forest Management & Ecology, Course Catalog Close French (B.A., Minor) Students majoring in French gain advanced speaking, reading and writing skills in the language, as well as knowledge of French and francophone literature and film. A major or minor in French is a great way to understand international relations and helps provide context to international subjects. Bachelor of Arts in French Request information about the Bachelor of Arts in French Academic advising for French majors Bachelor of Arts in French, Course Catalog Close Gender, Race & Identity (B.A.) Want to explore questions of identity, culture, race, gender or sexuality? The Department of Gender, Race and Identity provides a curriculum that will be of benefit to students who are pursuing a graduate degree in other areas, including business, history, social work, social psychology, psychology and sociology. Bachelor of Arts in Gender, Race & Identity Request information about the Bachelor of Arts in Gender, Race & Identity Academic advising for gender, race & identity students Bachelor of Arts in Gender, Race & Identity, Course Catalog Close General Studies (BGS) The general studies degree program provides an interdisciplinary degree program that facilitates study across the academic disciplines and professional fields. It is designed for students whose academic interest or career objectives require an individualized approach and allows students to design their own program of study. Bachelor of General Studies Bachelor of General Studies, Course Catalog Close Geography (B.A., B.S., Minor) The Geography Department offers a comprehensive, rigorous study of landscape change and human-environment interactions across a full complement of degrees. Coursework emphasizes proficiency in human geography and physical geography, geospatial methods and human/environment interaction. Departmental specialties include the American West, biogeography, climatology, cultural historical geography, land use planning and water resources. Bachelor's degree in geography Request information about the bachelor's degree in geography Academic advising for geography students B.A. in Geography, Course Catalog B.S. in Geography, Course Catalog Close Geological Engineering (B.S.) The Geological Engineering program focuses on geologic hazard mitigation and natural resources characterization. The program applies physics, chemistry, meteorology, hydrology, biology, geology and engineering science to understanding the Earth, recognizing and coping with environmental hazards, exploiting natural resources while preserving the environment, and exploring Earth's context in the solar system. Bachelor of Science in Geological Engineering Request information about the Bachelor of Science in Geological Engineering Academic advising for geological engineering students Bachelor of Science in Geological Engineering, Course Catalog Close Geology (B.S.) The geology program at the University of Nevada, Reno is an interdisciplinary science that studies the Earth and its construction and the natural processes that have and continue to shape it. Classwork in the various Geology academic degree tracks emphasize knowledge and understanding of Earth and tectonic processes. Bachelor of Science in Geology Request information about the Bachelor of Science in Geology Academic advising for geology students Bachelor of Science in Geology, Course Catalog Close Geophysics (B.S.) Geophysics applies mathematical and physical principles to the study of the Earth and planets. The curriculum introduces the global properties of the Earth (gravity, magnetic field, crustal motions, interior dynamics) and the determination of near-surface and interior properties through the use of seismology, electromagnetics, potential fields, remote sensing, geodesy and GPS. Bachelor of Science in Geophysics Request information about the Bachelor of Science in Geophysics Academic advising for geophysics students Bachelor of Science in Geophysics, Course Catalog Close History (B.A., Minor) Programs in the department of history offer students the understanding of the scholarly discipline of history through the expansion of historical knowledge, the comprehension of historiography and the practice of critical inquiry. Framing the questions that define particular scholarly debates underlies critical analysis of primary and secondary sources. Bachelor of Arts in History Request information about the Bachelor of Arts in History Bachelor of Arts in History and Secondary Education Academic advising for history students Bachelor of Arts in History, Course Catalog Close Human Development & Family Science (B.S., Minor) The program prepares students for a variety of careers such as administrators of child development or family services programs, child development specialists, school age program coordinators, youth program specialists, community education instructors, parent educators, family financial planners, consumer advocates and family public policy advocates. Bachelor of Science in Human Development & Family Science Request information about the Bachelor of Science in Human Development & Family Science Academic advising for human development & family science majors Bachelor of Science in Human Development & Family Science, Course Catalog Close Hydrogeology (B.S.) The hydrogeology curriculum provides a foundation in physical, chemical, geological and quantitative sciences as a basis for understanding the hydrologic cycle and managing water resources; prepares students for entry-level professional careers in firms and agencies that address hydrologic, hydrogeologic and environmental geology issues; and prepares students for graduate study in hydrologic sciences. Bachelor of Science in Hydrogeology Request information about the Bachelor of Science in Hydrogeology Academic advising for hydrogeology students Bachelor of Science in Hydrogeology, Course Catalog Close Information Systems (B.S., Minor) This program gives graduates the ability to understand and manage current and emerging information systems and confers excellent technical management and communications skills. A background in information systems allows for higher-level understanding of how computer systems interface with each other – and thus facilitate and foster the spread of knowledge and ideas. Bachelor of Science in Information Systems Request information about the Bachelor of Science in Information Systems Academic advising for information systems students Bachelor of Science in Information Systems, Course Catalog Close International Affairs (B.A.) The international affairs program draws courses from a variety of academic disciplines to provide students many perspectives on their area of study. Students have flexibility in planning a curriculum suited to their particular interests and career goals, including courses from a variety of departments. Bachelor of Arts in International Affairs Request information about the Bachelor of Arts in International Affairs Academic advising for international affairs students Bachelor of Arts in International Affairs, Course Catalog Close International Business (B.S.) International business is an undergraduate program designed for those individuals who intend to prepare themselves to meet the challenges of this exciting new business era. Our program focuses on the principles and practices of businesses that cross national boundaries to operate in the global business environment. Bachelor of Science in International Business Request Information about the Bachelor of Science in International Business Academic advising for international business students Close Journalism (B.A., Minor) The Reynolds School helps students turn their passion for storytelling into careers in news, broadcasting and documentary, public relations and advertising, film and media production, Spanish-language media and visual communication. Students prepare for the professional world in the school’s own production centers as well as with media partners. Bachelor of Arts in Journalism Request information about the Bachelor of Arts in Journalism Academic advising for journalism students Bachelor of Arts in Journalism, Course Catalog Close Kinesiology (B.S.) If you want to better understand the mechanics of the human body and use that knowledge to improve health and wellness in your community, a bachelor's degree in kinesiology is for you. Bachelor of Science in Kinesiology Request information about the Bachelor of Science in Kinesiology Academic advising for kinesiology students Bachelor of Science in Community Health Sciences (Kinesiology Specialization), Course Catalog Close Management (B.S.) Graduates of this program are equipped with the tools to lead marketing and advertising campaigns, assist with corporate mergers or build successful businesses. In essence, the tools a graduate receives after receiving a degree from the Management Department include the ability to effectively communicate, collaborate and lead. Bachelor of Science in Management Request Information about the Bachelor of Science in Management Academic advising for management students Bachelor of Science in Management, Course Catalog Close Marketing (B.S.) The marketing program gives students strategic insight into one of the most vital components of modern business. Students will be able to help companies and organizations identify customers, develop advertising campaigns, conduct business development research and explore new avenues of brand promotion. Marketing is both a social and managerial process. Bachelor of Science in Marketing Request information about the Bachelor of Science in Marketing Academic advising for marketing students Bachelor of Science in Marketing, Course Catalog Close Materials Science & Engineering (B.S., Minor) Materials science engineers are at the forefront of developing and testing new materials that can stand up to extreme environments, such as high heat or high pressure, or that are lighter or stronger than their predecessors. These new materials may be used in diverse industries such as health care, manufacturing or energy. Bachelor of Science Materials Science & Engineering Request information about the Bachelor of Science Materials Science & Engineering Academic advising for materials science & engineering students Bachelor of Science Materials Science & Engineering, Course Catalog Close Mathematics (B.A., B.S., Minor) Programs include tracks for applied mathematics, discrete mathematics/operations research, statistics or general and pure mathematics study. The curriculum includes a broad background in foundational areas, as well as specialized courses leading to the frontiers of relevant areas. The applied emphasis includes interdisciplinary topics. Bachelor's degree in mathematics Request information about the bachelor's degree in mathematics Academic advising for mathematics students B.A. in Mathematics, Course Catalog B.S. in Mathematics, Course Catalog Close Mechanical Engineering (B.S., Minor) Mechanical engineering is a broad field that can include everything from aerospace engineering to fluid mechanics to biomedical applications. Mechanical engineers may work with nanoscale materials invisible to all but the most powerful microscopes or they may be involved in engineering massive airplanes or rockets. Bachelor of Science in Mechanical Engineering Request information about the Bachelor of Science in Mechanical Engineering Academic advising for mechanical engineering students Bachelor of Science in Mechanical Engineering, Course Catalog Close Metallurgical Engineering (B.S., Minor) Using engineering principles, metallurgists process ores to concentrate, extract and refine valuable components. They are also involved in the design, development and operational evaluation of metal components for structural and moving systems. Metallurgical engineers are trained in mineral processing, extractive metallurgy and physical metallurgy. Bachelor of Science in Metallurgical Engineering Request information about the Bachelor of Science in Metallurgical Engineering Academic advising for metallurgical engineering students Bachelor of Science in Metallurgical Engineering, Course Catalog Close Microbiology & Immunology (B.S., Minor) Microbiology and immunology provides in-depth studies at the molecular and cellular levels on the bacterial, viral, fungal and protozoan pathogens of humans, including their molecular structures, life cycles and mechanisms of pathogenesis. Students also receive an in-depth understanding of the mammalian immune system and its role. Bachelor of Science in Microbiology & Immunology Request information about the Bachelor of Science in Microbiology & Immunology Academic advising for microbiology & immunology students Bachelor of Science in Microbiology & Immunology, Course Catalog Close Mining Engineering (B.S., Minor) The program includes courses in mine design, mining technology, computer applications to operations control and management, environmental concerns, industrial safety and health and mineral economics. The curriculum provides students with a broad background for a career as a modern mining engineer. Graduates are prepared for industrial employment or further advanced study. Bachelor of Science in Mining Engineering Request information about the Bachelor of Science in Mining Engineering Academic advising for mining engineering students Bachelor of Science in Mining Engineering, Course Catalog Close Music (B.A., B.M., Minor) The Department of Music boasts a faculty of world-class performers and scholars committed to providing a creative, vibrant and challenging center for artistic development. The Department's dedication to student and faculty ensemble performances reflects the belief that interactive rehearsals and live performances teach students the technology and social dynamics of being a musician. Bachelor's degree in music Request information about the bachelor's degree in music Academic advising for music students Bachelor of Arts in Music, Course Catalog Close Neuroscience (B.S.) The Institute of Neuroscience is a highly collaborative, multidisciplinary group of researchers seeking to tackle big questions in neuroscience while preparing students for a career in this exciting field. Our faculty have expertise in molecular genetics, behavioral analysis, developmental biology, electrophysiology, optogenetics, human psychophysics, virtual reality and functional MRI and EEG. Bachelor of Science in Neuroscience Request information about the Bachelor of Science in Neuroscience Academic advising for neuroscience students Bachelor of Science in Neuroscience, Course Catalog Close NevadaTeach (B.S., Minor) Graduating from NevadaTeach provides you with all of the coursework to pursue a teaching license at the middle or high school level, while earning a comprehensive and marketable degree in your STEM discipline. Bachelor of Science in Secondary Education & Agricultural Sciences Bachelor of Science in Secondary Education & Atmospheric Science Bachelor of Science in Secondary Education & Biology Bachelor of Science in Secondary Education & Chemistry Bachelor of Science in Secondary Education & Community Health Sciences Bachelor of Science in Secondary Education & Environmental Science Bachelor of Science in Secondary Education & Geography Bachelor of Science in Secondary Education & Geology Bachelor of Science in Secondary Education & Mathematics Bachelor of Science in Secondary Education & Microbiology and Immunology Bachelor of Science in Secondary Education & Physics Close Nursing (BSN) Nurses provide a range of health care services in a variety of settings, such as public health agencies and hospitals and work as clinicians, researchers, and health care policy advocates. The Orvis School of Nursing is a top option for training tomorrow's nurse professionals. Bachelor of Science in Nursing Request more information about the Bachelor of Science in Nursing Academic advising for pre-nursing students Close Nutrition (B.S., Minor) A degree in nutrition/dietetics provides students with a strong science background, laboratory experiences and community and clinical opportunities related to human health and nutrition. The curriculum of the nutritional science program draws upon a variety of nutrition-related disciplines, including human nutrition, biology, physiology and chemistry. Bachelor of Science in Nutrition Request information about the Bachelor of Science in Nutrition Academic advising for nutrition students B.S. in Nutrition (Dietetics Specialization), Course Catalog B.S. in Nutrition (Nutritional Sciences Specialization), Course Catalog Close Pack Teach (B.A.) The Pack Teach program is a dual degree program that prepares students to become licensed secondary education teachers. This four-year program offers students the opportunity to gain a strong liberal arts education, excellent preparation in their content area discipline, as well as the foundational and applied knowledge for instruction. Bachelor of Arts in Secondary Education & English Bachelor of Arts in Secondary Education & French Bachelor of Arts in Secondary Education & History Bachelor of Arts in Secondary Education & Journalism Bachelor of Arts in Secondary Education & Political Science Bachelor of Arts in Secondary Education & Sociology Bachelor of Arts in Secondary Education & Spanish Close Philosophy (B.A., Minor) The philosophy program prepares students for disciplined thinking. Students gain the tools necessary to read and listen critically, to reason appropriately and engage in confident expression. Our department is an active and friendly one, combining philosophical rigor with an open and receptive relationship to students. Bachelor of Arts in Philosophy Request information about the Bachelor of Arts in Philosophy Academic advising for philosophy students Bachelor of Arts in Philosophy, Course Catalog Close Physics (B.S., Minor) The study of all fundamental forces and processes from the subatomic to the "astronomic" size scales is the purview of physics. For students of science other than physicists the purpose of learning physics is both the understanding of basic concepts and the application of problem solving skills developed during that process. Bachelor of Science in Physics Request information about the Bachelor of Science in Physics Academic advising for physics students Bachelor of Science in Physics, Course Catalog Close Political Science (B.A., Minor) Political science is the study of power, who wields it and to what end. Program majors study how governments interact with individuals or other governments and examine the results. The study of politics is an essential component of a liberal arts preparation for citizenship and leadership in a democratic society. Bachelor of Arts in Political Science Request information about the Bachelor of Arts in Political Science Academic advising for political science students Bachelor of Arts in Political Science, Course Catalog Close Psychology (B.A., Minor) While other scientific fields, such as neuroscience, focus their studies on the physical structures of the brain, psychologists examine human actions to better understand the mind. Because the brain is the guiding force behind practically all behaviors, studying people's actions provides psychologists empirical insights into the way the mind operates. Bachelor of Arts in Psychology Request information about the Bachelor of Arts in Psychology Academic advising for psychology students Bachelor of Arts in Psychology, Course Catalog Bachelor of Arts in Psychology, Course Catalog Bachelor of Science in Psychology, (Behavior Science) Course Catalog Bachelor of Science in Psychology, (Psychological Science) Course Catalog Close Public Health (B.S., Minor) The essence of public health is prevention and includes organized interdisciplinary efforts that concentrate on the physical, mental, social and environmental health concerns of communities and populations. Bachelor of Science in Public Health Request information about the Bachelor of Science in Public Health Academic advising for public health students Bachelor of Science in Community Health Sciences (Public Health Specialization), Course Catalog Close Rangeland & Ecology & Management (B.S., Minor) The rangeland ecology & management curriculum provides a solid foundation for science-based decision making in natural resource management. Students acquire a strong background in basic sciences and critical issues in vegetation ecology and management, sustainability and restoration of rangeland resources, watershed integrity, wildlife habitat, forage use and conservation of natural ecosystems. Bachelor of Science in Rangeland Ecology & Management Request information about the Bachelor of Science in Rangeland Ecology & Management Academic advising for rangeland ecology & management students Bachelor of Science in Rangeland Ecology & Management, Course Catalog Close Secondary Education (B.A., B.S.) The secondary education program is committed to preparing teachers to meet the challenges of today's classrooms. The faculty provides an educational program that enables students to develop a strong foundation of knowledge about teaching and learning, display a love of learning and engage in reflective practice about one's growth as a teacher. Bachelor's Degree in Secondary Education Request information about the Bachelor's Degree in Secondary Education Academic advising for secondary education students Bachelor of Arts in Secondary Education, Course Catalog Close Social Work (BSW) Social work is a popular major among students who want to help others. Countless people today depend on aid and advice from social workers. The emotional rewards that come with helping clients can also be significant and keep social workers engaged in their field. We offer both undergraduate and graduate degree options, including a robust field experience training platform as well. Bachelor of Social Work (BSW) Request more information about the Bachelor of Social Work Academic advising for social work students Bachelor of Social Work (BSW), Course Catalog Close Sociology (B.A., Minor) Sociology is the study of humans in their social groupings. Students learn to examine the development of social classes, gender roles, racial prejudices, social analysis of politics, economic structure, the development of modern industrial society, and a variety of other issues relevant to the study of society and social structure. Bachelor of Arts in Sociology Request information about the Bachelor of Arts in Sociology Academic advising for sociology students Bachelor of Arts in Sociology, Course Catalog Close Spanish (B.A., Minor) The College of Liberal Arts offers undergraduate and graduate programs in Spanish. Students will not only learn the Spanish language but also get a broad understanding of Hispanic-American and U.S. Latino culture and literature. A major or minor in Spanish is very beneficial in the professional world. Bachelor of Arts in Spanish Request information about the Bachelor of Arts in Spanish Academic advising for Spanish majors Close Speech Pathology (B.S.) Speech pathology incorporates elements of audiology, speech, language and disorders to give students the complete knowledge of the field. The purpose of specializing in speech pathology is to evaluate and diagnose speech, language, cognitive-communication and swallowing disorders. The need for specialists is high due to more cases of neurological, speech, language and hearing disorders. Bachelor of Science in Speech Pathology Request information about the Bachelor of Science in Speech Pathology Academic advising for speech pathology students Bachelor of Science in Speech Pathology, Course Catalog Close Theatre (B.A., Minor) The theatre major is part academic discipline, part technical craft and part art. It requires students to learn and explore facts and concepts, encourages students to develop technical proficiencies and supports students in their own personal development. This program strives to provide students with a balanced experience as theatre scholars, technicians and artists. Bachelor of Arts in Theatre Request information about the Bachelor of Arts in Theatre Academic advising for theatre students Bachelor of Arts in Theatre (Acting Specialization), Course Catalog Bachelor of Arts in Theatre (Design/Technology Specialization), Course Catalog Close Veterinary Science (B.S.) The University of Nevada, Reno offers a pre-professional program in Veterinary Medicine (Science) through the Department of Agriculture, Nutrition and Veterinary Science. The pre-veterinary curriculum satisfies the entrance requirements of most schools in the United States offering a Doctor of Veterinary Medicine program. Bachelor of Science in Veterinary Science Request information about the Bachelor of Science in Veterinary Science Academic advising for veterinary science students Bachelor of Science in Veterinary Science, Course Catalog Close Wildlife Ecology & Conservation (B.S., Minor) The wildlife ecology and conservation program prepares students to study wild animal populations, management of game and nongame species and conservation biology of threatened and endangered species. Ensuring habitat for wildlife in an increasingly urbanized world, protecting wildlife in the face of climate change and invasive species and more are covered. Bachelor of Science in Wildlife Ecology & Conservation Request information about the Bachelor of Science in Wildlife Ecology & Conservation Academic advising for wildlife ecology & conservation students Bachelor of Science in Wildlife Ecology & Conservation, Course Catalog Close Take the next step Request more information Undergraduate admissions Visit campus Follow the University University Twitter University Facebook University YouTube University Vimeo University Flickr University Instagram University LinkedIn University of Nevada, Reno 1664 N. Virginia Street, Reno, NV 89557 (775) 784-1110 Employment & Careers Non-Discrimination Statement Privacy Website Help Commitment to Diversity Commitment to Accessibility Contact the University Equal Opportunity and Title IX