Skip to main content Skip to main content Prospective Students Current Students Alumni More Faculty/Staff News Media Parents Skip to main content Apply Apply Give Give Follow Us Follow Us Twitter Follow Us Facebook Follow Us Instagram Follow Us LinkedIn Follow Us YouTube Follow Us Social Stream Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. Navigate Search Skip to main content Residence Life & Student Housing (RLSH) About Apply for Housing Apply for Housing SMU Housing Portal Rate and Fees Living On Campus Living On Campus Residential Commons Upper-Division Housing Apartments Policies Get Involved Get Involved Dallas Community Departments Faculty Graduate Students Staff Undergraduate Students Make A Request ☰ Walk to class. And everything else. RLSH Living On Campus Upper-Division Housing Upper-Division Housing The upper-division student buildings offer welcoming, diverse communities with great amenities and convenient locations. These buildings house undergraduates who are juniors or above, and space is limited. The upper-division communities do not close over Fall, Winter, or Spring Breaks. Your place for community Read more about each building, including locations, special features, and floor plans. The houses Upper-division houses offer multiple close-knit communities, spread throughout campus. Each house offers a wide array of room options, such as single rooms, private and shared kitchens, facilitating independence and growth without leaving campus. Explore houses Service House The SMU Service House (SMUSH) is a residence hall for 28 students dedicated to service and social change. This community provides upperclassmen with the ideal opportunity to share their passion for helping others. Search SMUSH Fraternity housing There are a number of official fraternity and sorority chapter houses on SMU's campus, 8 of which are owned and operated by the University in conjunction with Residence Life & Student Housing. Learn more Apply Visit School Cox School of Business Dedman College of Humanities and Sciences Dedman School of Law Lyle School of Engineering Meadows School of the Arts Moody School of Graduate and Advanced Studies Perkins School of Theology Simmons School of Education and Human Development Explore SMU Magazine Academic Calendar Events Calendar Guildhall Continuing and Professional Education Athletics Employment at SMU Campus Reporting a Bias Incident Report Sexual Misconduct Emergency Preparedness Student Life George W. Bush Presidential Center SMU Libraries Meadows Museum Tate Lecture Series Contact Us Maps and Directions Legal Disclosures © Southern Methodist University, PO Box 750100, Dallas, TX 75275 twitter facebook instagram linkedin youtube share