Search | Directories | Reference Tools UW Home > Discover UW > Student Guide UW Bothell Course Descriptions UW Tacoma Course Descriptions Glossary SCHOOL OF MEDICINE GENOME SCIENCES Detailed course offerings (Time Schedule) are available for Spring Quarter 2022 Summer Quarter 2022 Autumn Quarter 2022 GENOME 151 Human Genetics: The Individual and Society (4) NW Principles of Mendelian inheritance as illustrated by human traits and diseases; chromosomes and sex determination; distribution of genes in populations; natural selection and evolution; counseling and genetic engineering; ethical issues. For non-science majors only. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: GENOME 151 GENOME 261 Genomes and Society (4) NW Explores current technological advances in genome research and how these advances are impacting society. Topics include sequencing of the human genome, stem cell research, cloning, genetically modified foods, immunizations/public health, and genetic therapy. Appropriate for non-science majors. View course details in MyPlan: GENOME 261 GENOME 361 Fundamentals of Genetics and Genomics (3) NW Introduces fundamentals concepts in genetics and genomics including patterns of inheritance, genetic variation, and the relationship between genotype and phenotype. Cannot be taken for credit if credit received for GENOME 371. May not be repeated. Prerequisite: minimum grade of 1.5 in BIOL 200 or BIOL 240 Offered: WSpS. View course details in MyPlan: GENOME 361 GENOME 371 Introductory Genetics (5) NW Covers gene transmission, including chromosome mapping, genetic pathways; mutational analysis of biological processes emphasizing mutations affecting chromosome transmission. Introduction to genomics - cloning and sequence analysis of whole genomes. Emphasizes formal genetic mechanisms, molecular techniques. For biological sciences majors. May not be repeated. Prerequisite: either a minimum grade of 2.0 in BIOL 180 and a minimum grade of 2.0 in BIOL 200, or a minimum grade of 2.0 in BIOL 240. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: GENOME 371 GENOME 372 Genomics and Proteomics (5) NW Covers emerging fields of genomics and proteomics. Discusses key technologies and their applications to the study of human and model organism genomes. View course details in MyPlan: GENOME 372 GENOME 373 Genomic Informatics (4) NW Focuses on methods for analyzing large genetic data sets and their application to biological problems, including sequence alignment and search methods, gene prediction, phylogenetic trees, and microarray analysis. View course details in MyPlan: GENOME 373 GENOME 414 Molecular Evolution (5) NW Survey of empirical approaches to the study of molecular evolution and ecology, drawing on examples from a variety of taxa and the recent literature. Topics include DNA sequencing and systematics, fingerprinting approaches in behavioral ecology, and adaptive evolution at the molecular level. Prerequisite: BIOL 354. Offered: jointly with BIOL 414. View course details in MyPlan: GENOME 414 GENOME 453 Genetics of the Evolutionary Process (3) NW Contributions of genetics to the understanding of evolution. Processes of mutation, selection, and random genetic events as they affect the genetic architecture of natural populations and the process of speciation. Emphasis on experimental data and observation, rather than mathematical theory. Prerequisite: either GENOME 361 or GENOME 371. View course details in MyPlan: GENOME 453 GENOME 454 The Origins of Genetics (4) NW Discovery and eventual triumph of Mendelism in the early twentieth century. Concepts of heredity from ancient times to the nineteenth century. Mendel's work and its rediscovery. Evidence contributing to cornerstone of classical genetics - the chromosome theory of heredity. Prerequisite: either GENOME 351, GENOME 371, or GENOME 372. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: GENOME 454 GENOME 463 Hands-On Science for Elementary School Teachers (5) Offers prospective and practicing teachers an opportunity to learn science through the hands-on teaching methods recommended for teaching science at the elementary level. View course details in MyPlan: GENOME 463 GENOME 465 Advanced Human Genetics (4) NW Explores genetic analysis of naturally occurring variation in humans; origins and consequences of mutation, as mediated by selection, migration, population structure and drift; approaches to finding human disease genes and characterizing them at the molecular level; relevance of other species to analysis of human genes. Prerequisite: either GENOME 361 or GENOME 371. Instructors: Eichler, King Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: GENOME 465 GENOME 466 Cancer Genetics (3) NW Focuses on three types of cancer-related genetics. DNA repair, mitotic recombination, chromosome loss and imbalance, and other aspects of genomic instability. Metastatic cancer as an example of natural selection and evolution. Yeast and nematodes as models for the study of cancer genetics. Prerequisite: either GENOME 361, GENOME 371, or GENOME 372. View course details in MyPlan: GENOME 466 GENOME 475 Debates in Genetics (3) NW Utilizes the original scientific literature as the basis for discussion of a range of genetic issues that impact society. Discussions are student-led; evaluations are based both on participation in class and on a research paper. Prerequisite: BIOL 200; either BIOL 355, BIOL 401, BIOL 402, GENOME 361, or GENOME 371. View course details in MyPlan: GENOME 475 GENOME 490 Undergraduate Seminar (2, max. 6) NW Seminar for advanced undergraduate students engaged in individual research projects or those who wish to gain an understanding of genetic research by analysis of the primary literature. Assignments emphasize the rationale for research projects and the presentation and interpretation of research findings. Offered: AWSp. View course details in MyPlan: GENOME 490 GENOME 496 Peer Teaching Assistants in Genome Sciences (1-5, max. 5) Direct experience in the classroom teaching a discussion section for non-majors in genome sciences courses. Peer teaching assistants attend lectures and weekly preparation meetings and gain in-depth background on the subject material. In addition, peer TAs are given training in teaching techniques and course preparation. Prerequisite: GENOME 371. Credit/no-credit only. View course details in MyPlan: GENOME 496 GENOME 499 Undergraduate Research (*, max. 30) Credit/no-credit only. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: GENOME 499 GENOME 501 Introduction to Research Materials (1-10, max. 10) The student undertakes a research project in one of the research groups within the department for a quarter at a time. Prerequisite: graduate standing in the Department of Genome Sciences or permission of Graduate Program Coordinator. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: GENOME 501 GENOME 503 An Inquiry Approach to Teaching Genetics at the Introductory High School Level (2, max. 6) Provides advanced science content on topics in genetics and bioethics that are taught in secondary biology classrooms, as well as pedagogical strategies for conveying concepts to pre-college students. Workshop participation required. View course details in MyPlan: GENOME 503 GENOME 504 StarNet: Research Experiences for Students and Teachers (3, max. 9) Explores the scientific knowledge, technical skills, and pedagogical strategies related to teaching DNA sequencing and bioethics in a high school classroom. Workshop participation required. View course details in MyPlan: GENOME 504 GENOME 505 StarNet: Teacher Research Experience (9) Participating teachers carry out an independent research project in a University of Washington laboratory. Teachers, scientists, and StarNet staff meet weekly for an informal research talk. View course details in MyPlan: GENOME 505 GENOME 506 The Science Education Partnership (5, max. 15) Provides secondary school teachers training in molecular biology, genetics, and biotechnology, as well as resources and ongoing support designed to enhance biology instruction. Workshop participation required. Credit/no-credit only. View course details in MyPlan: GENOME 506 GENOME 520 Seminar (1, max. 30) Prerequisite: graduate standing in the Department of Genome Sciences or permission of Graduate Program Coordinator. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: AWSp. View course details in MyPlan: GENOME 520 GENOME 522 Journal Club (1, max. 30) Presentation and discussion of current scientific literature. For Genome Sciences graduate students only. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: AWSp. View course details in MyPlan: GENOME 522 GENOME 523 Research Reports (1, max. 30) Thomas Presentation and discussion of current student research. For Genome Sciences graduate students only. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: AWSp. View course details in MyPlan: GENOME 523 GENOME 525 Current Literature in Human Genetics (1) Topics from current literature in human genetics. Students and faculty each present one topic per quarter. Prerequisite: graduate or postdoctoral status. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: AWSp. View course details in MyPlan: GENOME 525 GENOME 531 Genetics of Human Disease (3) Covers modern approaches to the identification of human disease genes permitted by their isolation. Reviews how functional conservation of proteins throughout eukaryotic evolution is modeled in systems such as somatic cell culture, transgenic mice, menatodes, Drosophila, and yeast. Credit/no-credit only. View course details in MyPlan: GENOME 531 GENOME 540 Introduction to Computational Molecular Biology: Genome and Protein Sequence Analysis (4) Algorithmic and probabilistic methods for analysis of DNA and protein analysis. Students must be able to write computer programs for data analysis. Prior coursework in biology and probability highly desirable. Prerequisite: permission of instructor. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: GENOME 540 GENOME 541 Introduction to Computational Molecular Biology: Molecular Evolution (4) Computational methods for studying molecular evolution. Students must be able to write computer programs for data analysis. Prior coursework in biology and probability highly desirable. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: GENOME 541 GENOME 545 Biostatistical Methods for Big Omics Data (3) This "hands-on" course introduces statistical methods for high-dimensional omics data, as well as the R programming language and the Bioconductor project as tools to extract, query, integrate, visualize, and analyze real world omics data sets. Prerequisite: BIOST 512, 514, or 517. Offered: jointly with BIOST 545/PHG 545. View course details in MyPlan: GENOME 545 GENOME 547 Scientific Writing (1.5) For graduate students principally in their second and third year. Focuses on the preparation of research manuscripts for publication. Also considers other scientific writing such as thesis proposals and fellowship and grant applications. Credit/no-credit only. View course details in MyPlan: GENOME 547 GENOME 550 Methods and Logic in Genetics (3) Critical reading and detailed discussion of genetics-related scientific research papers. Material emphasizes methodological and logical themes of importance in modern genetics, for example: origin of mutants, genetic epistasis, pulse labeling, and in vivo gene function. Prerequisite: first-year genetics graduate students only. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: GENOME 550 GENOME 551 Principles of Gene Regulation (1.5) A detailed examination of the mechanisms of transcription and translation as determined by experimental genetics, molecular biology, and biochemistry. View course details in MyPlan: GENOME 551 GENOME 552 Technologies for Genome Analysis (1.5) Discussion of current and newly-emerging technologies in genome analysis with regard to applications in biology and medicine and to potential advantages and limitations. Prerequisite: permission of instructor. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: GENOME 552 GENOME 553 Advanced Genetic Analysis (1.5) Explores genetic analysis as a powerful approach for dissecting complex biological processes. Covers how scientists use selective removal, addition, or alteration of specific proteins to: identify and order genes in a pathway; define protein function; determine tissue, temporal, and sub-cellular requirements for activity; and distinguish among competing hypotheses to explain biological phenomena. View course details in MyPlan: GENOME 553 GENOME 554 Genomic Informatics (1.5) Many complete genome sequences are known. Each of these encodes the instructions for making an entire organism, but how can we hope to decipher the code? Focuses on methods for analyzing genome sequences, ranging from large-scale organizational pattern to gene prediction and detailed local alignment methods. View course details in MyPlan: GENOME 554 GENOME 555 Protein Technology (1.5) Focuses on current and emerging technologies and approaches in protein analysis, and considers applications of these technologies in biology, biotechnology, and medicine. View course details in MyPlan: GENOME 555 GENOME 559 Introduction to Statistical and Computational Genomics (3) Rudiments of statistical and computational genomics. Emphasis on basic probability and statistics, introduction to computer programming, and relevant web databases. View course details in MyPlan: GENOME 559 GENOME 560 Introduction to Statistical Genomics (3) An introduction to fundamental concepts necessary for the analysis of genetic and genomic data including, basic elements of probability theory, parameter estimation, and hypothesis testing. Prerequisite: first-year Genome Sciences graduate students or by permission of instructor. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: GENOME 560 GENOME 561 Molecular Population Genetics and Evolution (1.5) Surveys recent literature to gain an understanding of the basic principles of molecular population genetics and evolution as applied to analysis of genome data. Requires some computer analysis of genome data. View course details in MyPlan: GENOME 561 GENOME 562 Population Genetics (4) M. Kuhner Mathematical and experimental approaches to the genetics of natural populations, especially as they relate to evolution. Emphasis on theoretical population genetics. Prerequisite: permission of instructor. Offered: W, odd years. View course details in MyPlan: GENOME 562 GENOME 565 Advanced Human Genetics (4) Explores genetic analysis of naturally occurring variation in humans; origins and consequences of mutation, as mediated by selection, migration, population structure, and drift; approaches to finding human disease genes and characterizing them at the molecular level; relevance of other species to analysis of human genes. Prerequisite: either GENOME 361 or GENOME 371. Instructors: Eichler, King Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: GENOME 565 GENOME 569 Bioinformatics Workflows for High-Throughput Sequencing Experiments (1.5) Programming skills and software tools for building automated bioinformatics pipelines and computational biology analyses. Emphasis on UNIX tools and R libraries for distilling raw sequencing data into interpretable results. For students familiar with UNIX and with some programming experience in Python, R, or C/C++. View course details in MyPlan: GENOME 569 GENOME 570 Phylogenetic Inference (3) Methods for inferring phylogenies (evolutionary trees) - biological assumptions, statistical foundations, and computational methods. A comprehensive introduction for graduate students in the biological sciences to phylogenetic methods using data from molecular sequences, continuous and discrete characters, and gene frequencies. Prerequisite: introductory courses in evolution and in statistics. Instructors: Felsenstein Offered: W, even years. View course details in MyPlan: GENOME 570 GENOME 573 Human Genomics: Science, Ethics, and Society (3) Explores the ethical and social implications of human molecular genetics and genomics investigation. Recent research is critically evaluated for its potential impact on scientific practice, research participation, and societal understandings. Prerequisite: LAW H 504/B H 514/ PHG 512 or permission of instructor. Instructors: Fullerton Offered: jointly with B H 551; A. View course details in MyPlan: GENOME 573 GENOME 575 Fundamentals of Biomedical Instrumentation (3) Introduces fundamentals of instrumentation commonly used in biomedical research settings including mass spectrometers, optical microscopes, and DNA sequencers. Emphasizes practical understanding of physical and chemical properties that underlie operation and sources of uncertainty, noise, and error. View course details in MyPlan: GENOME 575 GENOME 576 Genetic and Genomic Analysis of Bacteria (1.5) In-depth coverage of genetic and genomic strategies used to analyze complex biological processes in bacteria. Focuses on general approaches, with examples drawn from studies of pathogenic organisms where possible. A combination of lectures and seminar-style discussions of primary literature. View course details in MyPlan: GENOME 576 GENOME 580 Ethics in Biomedical Research and Teaching (1) Explores ethical issues in research and teaching and discusses avenues of responsible conduct. Credit/no-credit only. View course details in MyPlan: GENOME 580 GENOME 581 Seminar in Drosophila Genetics (1) Berg Discussions of contemporary research in and novel methods for genetic, cell biological, and molecular biological analysis of Drosophila development. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: AWSp. View course details in MyPlan: GENOME 581 GENOME 582 Seminar in Mouse Genetics (1) Braun Discussion of contemporary research in and novel methods for genetic, cell biological, and molecular analysis of mammalian development, with utilization of transgenic techniques. Credit/no-credit only. View course details in MyPlan: GENOME 582 GENOME 584 Seminar in DNA Replication (1) Brewer, Fangman Discussions of contemporary research in and novel methods for genetic, cell biological, and molecular biological analysis of budding yeast, with emphasis on the mechanisms and control of DNA replication. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: AWSp. View course details in MyPlan: GENOME 584 GENOME 585 Seminar in Bacterial Genetics (1) Discussions of contemporary research in and novel methods for genetic, cell biological, and molecular biological analysis of bacterial assembly mechanisms, with emphasis on the topogenesis of membrane proteins. Credit/no-credit only. View course details in MyPlan: GENOME 585 GENOME 586 Seminar in Mammalian Genetics (1) Sibley Discussions of contemporary research in and novel methods for genetic, cell biological, and molecular biological analysis of mammalian genetics, with emphasis on lymphoblast development. Credit/no-credit only. View course details in MyPlan: GENOME 586 GENOME 587 Seminar in Nematode Genetics (1) Thomas Discussions of contemporary research in and novel methods for genetic, cell biological, and molecular biological analysis of nematode development, with emphasis on neurogenesis and other developmental processes. Credit/no-credit only. View course details in MyPlan: GENOME 587 GENOME 590 Population Genetics Seminar (1) Weekly presentation by participants of current literature and ongoing research in evolution, molecular evolution, evolutionary genetics of natural populations, human population genetics, and quantitative genetics applied to animal and plant breeding. Prerequisite: GENOME 562 or permission of instructor. Instructors: Felsenstein Credit/no-credit only. View course details in MyPlan: GENOME 590 GENOME 599 Special Topics in Molecular Biotechnology (*, max. 12) Prerequisite: permission of instructor. Offered: AWSp. View course details in MyPlan: GENOME 599 GENOME 600 Independent Study or Research (*-) Credit/no-credit only. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: GENOME 600 GENOME 650 Genome Sciences Teaching Clerkship (1-6, max. 15) Direct experience teaching undergraduate Genome Sciences classes. Emphasis on pedagogy of educational experience, includes weekly meetings with instructors for training in teaching techniques, classroom management. Students develop as science educators under mentorship of course instructors. Involves attending class lectures, holding office hours, leading study sections, developing homework/quizzes, grading exams, management of course website. Prerequisite: PhD student standing. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: GENOME 650 GENOME 700 Master's Thesis (*-) Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: GENOME 700 GENOME 800 Doctoral Dissertation (*-) Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: GENOME 800 Office of the University Registrar registrar@uw.edu Modified: May 30, 2022