BTI - University of Houston Skip to main content Submit Close Give to UH Search About Academics Admissions Campus Life Research Athletics Locations Sugar Land Katy UH Technology Bridge News & Events Giving UH Home Research BTI Borders, Trade and Immigration Institute The Leading edge of security BTI is a Department of Homeland Security (DHS) Emeritus Center of Excellence led by the University of Houston. With researchers addressing cyber security, video/imaging and facial recognition, BTI conducts research and provides educational materials to enhance the nation’s ability to secure our borders, facilitate legitimate trade and travel, and ensure the integrity of our immigration policies. Through a multi-disciplinary team of national and international experts, the center delivers transformational technology-driven solutions, data-informed policies, workforce development opportunities for today’s Homeland Security Enterprise, and trans-disciplinary education for the next generation of homeland security experts. Continue to BTI Research Thrusts Transnational Flows of People BTI addresses real-world challenges as they relate to the flow of people across borders. These challenges have defined our three themes of funded projects: Monitoring, Facilitation, and Organized Crime Transnational Flows of Goods BTI research in the broad area of trade aims to develop three themes: Ports of the Future, Trade Compliance, and Connecting Goods to People. Education and Workforce Development The center currently provides project-based STEM learning and a symposium series focusing on Department of Homeland Security topics. The New Face of Research BTI Director Ioannis Kakadiaris has worked in the field of facial recognition for over a decade, and his lab has made important strides in the field — including creating facial recognition software that uses a three-dimensional snapshot of a person's face, developed from a single 2-D image of series of 2D images from various angles, to create a unique biometric idnentifier. Read More Featured Stories BTI to Improve Regional Terrorism Response The South East Texas Regional Planning Commission (SETRPC) has selected BTI to improve regional response for future terrorist attacks, providing both recommendations that will be tailored to the needs of SE Texas as well as templates and recommendations that can be used nationwide. Hurricane Harvey's Supply Chain Impacts BTI director, Ioannis A. Kakadiaris, and Eleftherios Iakovou explain what the aftereffects of Hurricane Harvey can teach us about building a more resilient international supply chain. 'Smarter' Security Cameras Shishir Shah received a $1.57 million grant from the NIST Public Safety Innovation Accelerator Program to pursue research using video analytics to develop “smart” camera security systems that can automatically alert first responders to relevant issues and emergencies. BTI Announces 5 New Research Projects The five projects grow the BTI Institutes portfolio by addressing real-world challenges in the areas of transnational flows of people and transnational flows of goods. The principal investigators will work closely with subject-matter experts to develop tools, systems or processes depending on what best serves those who will utilize the output of the research. University of Houston Houston, Texas 77204 (713) 743-2255 A–Z Index Academic Calendar Campus Carry Policy Campus Map Career Opportunities Directory Emergency Information Get Help Human Resources Library Mental Health Resources Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Office of the President Parking Report Copyright Infringement Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness Open Records/Public Information Act Texas Veterans Portal Tuition & Fees UH System Virtual Tour ©2022 University of Houston. All rights reserved. Report a problem with this page Texas.gov Texas Homeland Security TRAIL Fraud Reporting Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Linking Notice Privacy Notice Open Records/Public Information Act Institutional Résumé Required Reports Electronic & Information Resources Accessibility Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness University Policies