Skip to main content Skip to primary site menu Search form Search Explore Brown University Search Global Navigation Learn More About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life Find A to Z Index People Directory Information for Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Top Destinations Global Brown Watson Institute Graduate School Alpert Medical School School of Public Health School of Engineering Data Science Initiative Home About Academics Research Resources News Events Fair February Data Science Research Seminar Series Faculty for Faculty Research Talks Decoding Pandemic Data: A Series of Interactive Seminars Past Events Site Navigation Home About Executive Committee Faculty Postdocs Staff Campus Advisory Board Affiliated Faculty Jobs @ DSI Academics Master's Degree Apply Curriculum Student Experience Career Outcomes FAQ Doctoral Certificate Fifth-Year Master's Degree Certificate in Data Fluency Data Science Fellows Research DSI-Funded Research Data Science Research @ Brown TRIPODS Programs People Resources Activities & Opportunities Learning Resources Data Science and COVID-19 News Events Fair February Data Science Research Seminar Series Faculty for Faculty Research Talks Decoding Pandemic Data: A Series of Interactive Seminars Past Events Decoding Pandemic Data: A Series of Interactive Seminars See below for videos of previous events. Data science is often described as the process of turning data into action. The novel coronavirus pandemic has attached an urgent reality to that simple directive. It has brought the complexities and uncertainties of data-driven decision making into public view on an unprecedented scale. The pandemic has dramatically and universally impacted our everyday lives. We have therefore invested time to scan data dashboards, learn about model-based forecasting, and understand the importance of randomized comparisons of new treatments. Still, we have questions. What percentage of us is or has been infected? Why do the model projections change so frequently, and which ones should I believe? Do we really need randomized trials before rolling out promising new treatments? What kinds of data will tell us when we can reopen the economy? And perhaps most importantly, how can I decide which information to trust in this avalanche of data? This seminar series brings to Brown experts who are directly engaged in COVID-related data-driven research activities. Instead of the usual long-format lecture, each seminar will feature a 20 to 30–minute presentation by the speaker, followed by a moderated question and answer period. All seminars are virtual, and open to the public. Recordings of Talks Elizabeth Ogburn, Johns Hopkins: A collaboration platform to facilitate aggregating evidence across COVID-19 RCTs Watch video Nicholas Jewell, UC Berkeley and London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine Watch Video Natalie Dean, University of Florida: COVID-19 Vaccine Evaluation Watch Video Elizabeth Stuart, Johns Hopkins: Policy Evaluation during the Pandemic Watch Video Evan Ray, University of Massachusetts: The Covid-19 Forecast Hub Watch Video Thomas Trikalinos, Brown University: Modeling the SARS-COV-2 Pandemic in Rhode Island Watch Video Xihong Lin, Harvard University: Learning from COVID-19 Data in Wuhan, USA, and the World on Transmission, Health Outcomes, and Interventions Watch Video Events Fair February Data Science Research Seminar Series Faculty for Faculty Research Talks Decoding Pandemic Data: A Series of Interactive Seminars Past Events Donate to DSI Inquire about our Master's Program Sign Up for Our Newsletter Data Science Initiative Data Science Initiative Brown University Box 1891 164 Angell Street 3rd Floor Providence, RI 02912-1891 Phone: 401-863-6959 Email [email protected] Twitter Twitter Facebook Facebook Brown University Giving to Brown Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA 401-863-1000 Contact Us Maps Directions Career Opportunities Campus Safety Accessibility All Social Media © 2022 Brown University | Back to top