Skip to main content SMU Explore SMU Academics Undergraduate Admission Student Affairs About News Athletics Events Calendar Bush Center Prospective Students Current Students Alumni Faculty & Staff Apply to SMUGIVE NOW Meadows School of the Arts Areas of Study Admissions About Menu Search Meadows Jazz Orchestra Meadows Jazz Orchestra Areas of Study Music Undergraduate Studies Undergraduate Studies Undergraduate Studies Admissions B.A. in Music B.M. in Performance B.M. in Composition Meadows Young Artist Program B.M. in Music Therapy B.M. in Music Education (Teacher Certification) Dual Degree in Performance and Music Education Minor in Music Music Minor in Songwriting Music Industry Practices Minor Students of Music will find many opportunities at SMU Meadows. They take private lessons, explore music history and theory, perform in ensembles for a full season of orchestral, wind, chamber and choral concerts, travel to concerts and festivals, and study abroad. Annual performances include an opera production, a student concerto concert with the Meadows Symphony Orchestra and a gala performance at the Morton H. Meyerson Symphony Center or Winspear Opera House. The Division of Music at SMU is internationally recognized for its award-winning students, renowned performing ensembles and distinguished faculty of performers, composers and scholars – including renowned violinist Emanuel Borok, cellist Andrés Díaz, pianist Joaquín Achúcarro, classical guitarist Robert Guthrie and members of the Dallas Symphony Orchestra. Students interact with an extensive slate of guest performers, conductors, composers and scholars. Accredited by the National Association of Schools of Music, the Division of Music offers degrees, majors and concentrations in performance, composition, conducting, sacred music, music history, piano pedagogy, music education, and music therapy to undergraduate and graduate students. Its state-of-the-art facilities include the 490-seat, acoustically "tunable" Caruth Auditorium, 170-seat O'Donnell Recital Hall, and 110-seat Bob Smith Auditorium at the Meadows Museum. Contact the Division of Music Division of Music Meadows School of the Arts Southern Methodist University 6101 Bishop Blvd. Dallas, Texas 75275-0356 214.768.1951 music@smu.edu Opera Free For All BoulevArt Meadows School of the Arts Meadows School of the Arts 6101 Bishop Dallas, Texas 75205 214-768-2000 Mailing Address: P.O. Box 750356 Dallas, Texas 75275-0356 Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkedIn Apply Now Visit Us Back to top © Southern Methodist University, PO Box 750100, Dallas, TX 75275 Areas of Study Advertising Art Art History Arts Management & Arts Entrepreneurship CCPA Creative Computation Dance Film & Media Arts Journalism Music Theatre Admissions Undergraduate Admissions Graduate Admissions Scholarships And Financial Aid Internships & Collaborations Visit Meadows Contact Meadows Admission Dual Admission About A Statement of Our Values Mission History Message From The Dean Dean's Executive Council Student Academic Services Academic Affairs Contact SMU Meadows Faculty Directory Faculty/Staff Bio Submission Form Facilities Resources Employment Meadows Graduate Student Council Site Map Report a Web Problem News and Events Art History After Hours Virtual Season Subscribers News Featured Media Our Calendar Performing Arts Season Music Recitals Events Newsletter Meadows Events Parking Directions & Public Transportation Meadows Recognition Ceremony The Movement Mission Ignite Arts Dallas SMU DataArts Meadows Prize Arts Entrepreneurship International Opportunities Interdisciplinary Studies Research and Creativity Alumni Submit Your Information Alumni News Alumni in the Media Alumni on LinkedIn Support Meadows Contact Development The Meadows Scholars Program Meadows Gala Apply NowVisit UsGive Menu Search Search Submit Menu Search