Skip to main content Information For: Current Students Alumni Harvard Undergraduates Educators Recruiters Media Apply Give to HGSE Search Apply for Degree Programs Apply for Professional Education Donate Give back to HGSE and support the next generation of passionate educators and innovative leaders. Keywords Close Menu Degree Programs Professional Education Faculty & Research Usable Knowledge Keywords About HGSE About the Dean Dean's Welcome Messages from the Dean Commentary and Media Dean's Office History of HGSE Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Our Impact Campus and Facilities Office Directory Virtual Tour Gutman Conference Center Reservation Request Form Capacities and Cost Floor Plan Catering Policies Audio Visual Directions, Parking, and Hotels Map of HGSE Directions to HGSE History of HGSE Buildings Faculty & Staff Directory Work at HGSE Title IX Information Doctoral Degree Programs Doctor of Education Leadership Doctor of Philosophy in Education Brochures Academic Calendar Academic Catalog Doctoral Viewbook Master's Degree Program Master's in Education Programs Education Leadership, Organizations, and Entrepreneurship Education Policy and Analysis Human Development and Education Learning Design, Innovation, and Technology Teaching and Teacher Leadership Concentrations Arts and Learning Early Childhood Global, International, and Comparative Education Higher Education Identity, Power, and Justice in Education Literacy and Languages A Personalized Approach Online Master's in Education Leadership Foundations Brochures Academic Catalog Academic Calendar Academic Year 2020-22 Programs Professional Education About Us Programs Early Childhood K-12 Higher Education Online Programs For Organizations Group and Team Enrollment Custom Programs Admissions Payment & Tuition Assistance Refunds & Withdrawals Policies and Accessibility Campus Experience On-Campus Program Health and Safety Policies FAQs Events Contact Faculty & Research Faculty Directory Centers, Projects and Initiatives Faculty Recruitment Faculty Experts Admissions Introduce Yourself Explore Find the Right Program Brochures Life at HGSE Connect Apply Refer a Candidate Frequently Asked Questions Financial Aid HGSE & Harvard University Consumer Information Tuition & Costs Applying for Aid Incoming Students Incoming International Students Continuing Students Scholarships, Fellowships & Grants Need-Based Grant Awards HGSE Fellowships Additional Fellowships External Fellowships Student Loans Student Work International Students International Applicant FAQ Funding Sources Students with Families Financial Aid Appeals Presentations & Publications Budgeting & Financial Literacy Budget Calculator Registrar News & Events Harvard Edcast Education Now Askwith Education Forum Upcoming Events Submit an Event Usable Knowledge Ed. Magazine Harvard Education Publishing Group Information for Media Education Now Usable Knowledge Usable Knowledge Harvard EdCast Ed. Magazine HGSE Centennial Community Learning Beyond the Classroom Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Organizations and Initiatives Community Events and Action Resources Teaching and Learning Gutman Library Services Alumni Services Collections Special Collections Request for Library Purchase Library Hours Websites for Educators About the Library Facilities & Equipment Contact Information Coronavirus Response Information Directory Calendar Alumni Network & Connect Get Involved Learn & Grow Benefits & Services my.harvard Student Handbook Introduction Welcome to HGSE Preface Commitment to Diversity Part 1: Enrollment Policies Academic Programs and Affiliations Registration and Enrollment Policies Tuition and Fees Financial Aid Student Health Insurance Grading Part 2: Student Supports Advising HGSE Supports University Supports Campus Safety and Security Part 3: Program Policies Academic Governance Doctor of Education (Ed.D.) Program Policies Doctor of Philosophy in Education (Ph.D.) Program Policies Doctor of Education Leadership (Ed.L.D.) Program Policies Master of Education (Ed.M.) Program Policies Part 4: Academic Integrity and Standards of Conduct Resolution on Rights and Responsibilities Academic Standards and Integrity Standards of Conduct in the Harvard Community Committee on Rights and Responsibilities Policies on Harassment and Discrimination Policy on Consensual Romantic Relationships Policy on Physical Violence Policy on Misrepresentation of Status Policy on Illicit Substances Policy on Hazing Policy on Threats Part 5: Copyright and Publishing Policies Copyright Disclosure Use of the Harvard Name Information For Current Students Alumni Harvard Undergraduates Educators Recruiters Media Connect with HGSE Facebook Twitter Linked In LinkedIn Symbols Created with Sketch. Instagram Professional Education Linked In Symbols Created with Sketch. FAQs ADMISSIONS Q: How do I apply to a program? A: All Professional Education programs have online registration or applications. You can access the online application by visiting the program webpage and clicking on the "Register" or “Apply” buttons. Q: Is there an application fee? Professional Education applicants are not charged a fee when applying. Once admitted, participants will receive an invoice for the program tuition. Q: What are your admissions requirements? A: For most programs, proficiency in written English is required, and participants must be fluent in the English language to take an active part in group discussions. However, please note that some online programs are offered in Spanish. Each program may also have its own set of admissions criteria, which can be found on the program webpage. Q: How do I know if you are still accepting applications for a program I want to attend? A: Programs that are still accepting applications or registrations will have an “Apply” or "Register" button located on the top right-hand corner of the program webpage. Q: How long does it take to process my application? A: For rolling admissions programs in our PreK-12 portfolio, individual applicants are notified via email within one to three weeks from the date they apply. Our Harvard Institutes for Higher Education will provide you with notification information upon receipt of your application. Q: When will I receive the program schedule? A: Program start and end times are provided in official acceptance emails, and program schedules are available to all participants on the password-protected program website in the month prior to the program start date. If you need the start and end times of a program prior to applying, please contact us at ppe@gse.harvard.edu or 800-545-1849. TEAM APPLICATIONS Q: I am a Team Coordinator. Do I need to apply individually as well? A: Team coordinators do not need to complete the additional application that is provided for team members. Q: I am part of a team. When can I expect to receive acceptance notification? A: Team applicants are notified of a decision via email within three weeks of the date by which all indicated team members have applied. Please note that team applications are not reviewed until every member has submitted their team member application form. ONLINE APPLICATIONS Q: I’m trying to apply for a program but the form isn’t letting me submit my short answer in the text box. A: There is a 250-word limit on short answer submissions. We recommend that you shorten your answer if it exceeds this limit. Q: Can I use my iPad/tablet to complete the application form? A: Applications should be completed with a computer as some applicants have encountered issues in the past when using tablets or other devices. We also recommend using the most up-to-date version of Mozilla Firefox or Google Chrome. PAYMENT AND WITHDRAWALS Q: Are there scholarships or financial aid available? A: In support of continued learning and development, we have a limited pool of tuition assistance available to educators on a need and application basis for our Professional Education programs. To inquire about tuition assistance for our upcoming programs, please contact us at ppe@gse.harvard.edu or 800-545-1849. Q: What is included in my program tuition? A: Generally, the program tuition covers the cost of instructional materials and light refreshments. Some programs may provide additional assistance. Please visit the program website for detailed information. Q: When is payment due? A: For online programs, the payment deadline is stated in the registration materials. For on-campus programs, the payment deadline is 30 days after your acceptance; if the program start date is less than 30 days away, then payment is due immediately. Q: What types of payment are accepted? A: Payment can be made by check, electronic bank wire transfer, or credit card (American Express, MasterCard, or Visa). Detailed information regarding payment will be included with your invoice. Q: Does Professional Education accept payment by purchase order (PO)? A: We accept purchase orders as a guarantee from an institution to pay a participant's registration fees. However, full payment is still required prior to program start. Please send the PO document to ppefinar@gse.harvard.edu. Q: What is HGSE Professional Education's tax ID number (TIN)? A: 04-2103580 Q: How can I get a copy of the invoice for the program? A: Please log in to your Professional Education Community account and generate an invoice. Q: I have a question regarding billing and payment and am already enrolled in the program. Whom should I contact? A: If you have already enrolled in a program and have confirmed that you plan to attend, please contact ppefinar@gse.harvard.edu with any questions regarding your payment. Q: I can no longer attend a program or I wish to withdraw from this program. What do I do? A: Please refer to our Refund and Withdrawal Policies page for information in regarding the refund process. All withdrawal requests should be emailed to ppe@gse.harvard.edu. ABOUT THE PROGRAMS Q: Are there graduate credit or Professional Development Points associated with HGSE Professional Education programs? A: With the exception of the Certificate of Advanced Education Leadership (CAEL), Professional Education programs do not provide graduate credit. Participants do receive a certificate of participation and a letter confirming the amount of clock hours awarded during the program. We recommend that participants contact their institutions or school districts for information on how to convert clock hours to Professional Development Points (PDPs). ON-CAMPUS PROGRAMS Q: What hotel accommodations are available to me in Cambridge? A: We work with local hotels in the area to provide participants with special rates for their stay in Cambridge and surrounding areas. While most of these hotels are within walking distance of campus, a complimentary shuttle service is offered for the hotel blocks that are further away. Additional information on booking accommodations is provided once accepted participants have completed the online confirmation form. Q: Where do the programs take place? A: Most programs are held on the Harvard Graduate School of Education campus in Cambridge, Massachusetts. Other locations may include areas within the Harvard University campus or on-site school visits for some programs. Participants will be able to see individual program details on the program schedule for specific locations. Q: Am I required to attend each session? A: Full-time participation and preparation are required throughout programs; participants are expected to free themselves of all work obligations during the program. Less than full participation in a program could affect the amount of clock hours received. Q: What is a typical day like in program? A: The day-to-day schedule varies for each program, although full-day sessions begin before 9:00 a.m. and run until early evening. Participants will receive a detailed schedule prior to the start of the program. Q: What are the protocols to address COVID and other health issues? A: Please see our On-Campus Program Health and Safety Policies. TRANSPORTATION TO AND FROM HGSE For detailed information about transportation to and from the Harvard Graduate School of Education, please visit the Directions to HGSE page. ADDITIONAL QUESTIONS Have more questions? Please contact our Admissions Team: Email: ppe@gse.harvard.edu Telephone: 1-800-545-1849 (International: +1-617-496-9139) In this section Professional Education About Us Programs Early Childhood K-12 Higher Education Online Programs For Organizations Group and Team Enrollment Custom Programs Admissions Payment & Tuition Assistance Refunds & Withdrawals Policies and Accessibility Campus Experience On-Campus Program Health and Safety Policies FAQs Events Contact Find a Program Connect with Professional Education Linked In Symbols Created with Sketch. Professional Education Professional Education About Us Programs Early Childhood K-12 Higher Education Online Programs For Organizations Group and Team Enrollment Custom Programs Admissions Payment & Tuition Assistance Refunds & Withdrawals Policies and Accessibility Campus Experience On-Campus Program Health and Safety Policies FAQs Events Contact Connect With Us hgse_profed ProfessionalEducationHGSE LinkedIn “In high-poverty schools that were remote for more than half of 2021, the loss was about half of a school year’s wo… https://t.co/2F2Onsda68 May 19 After the intense pressures of COVID, more than a quarter of superintendents say they plan to resign. A veteran sup… https://t.co/Kr8r2NB2XP May 13 Learn more about HGSE Professional Education offerings Sign up to receive updates Professional Education Harvard Graduate School of Education 13 Appian Way, Longfellow Hall, Fifth Floor Cambridge, MA 02138 ppe@gse.harvard.edu Domestic: 800-545-1849 International: +01-617-496-9139 Fax: 617-496-8051 Connect with Professional Education Linked In Symbols Created with Sketch. Find a Program Artboard 1 13 Appian Way | Cambridge, MA 02138 Centennial Contact Us Directory Directions Harvard University ©2022 President and Fellows of Harvard College Linked In Symbols Created with Sketch. Youtube RSS Podcast HGSE Publishing Policies & Disclaimers Digital Accessibility Policy Privacy Policy Trademark Notice