Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Office of the Provost & Academic Affairs Provost's Office Portfolio Directory Faculty Resources Recognition Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact Welcome New Faculty Resources to help you settle in on campus University Professorships Our top faculty are recognized with professorships Meet the Provost Dr. Tom Nenon is the chief academic officer of the UofM PreviousNext Home Academic Affairs Driven for Academic Excellence As UofM's leader for academic excellence, the Provost supports a portfolio that extends across the University's 12 college and schools plus encompasses several administrative and academic offices. From admissions and curriculum to budgeting and strategic planning, from faculty recruitment and retention to research and assessment — the Provost is a key leader for UofM's academic community. The division of Academic Affairs houses a variety of units and serves many functions on campus; among these are the Enrollment Services, Educational Initiatives, Student Academic Success and many more. Meet the provost >academic leadership > Resources Resources for teaching, on policies and work-life balance for current and new faculty at the UofM. Learn More Portfolio Portfolio of all the units within the Provost Office and Academic Affairs. Learn More T & p Information and resources for faculty on Tenure and Promotion. Learn More awards Information and applications for UofM Awards and Professorships. Learn More Take a Virtual Tour Take a peek at what UofM has to offer. Explore our Central Campus, Cecil C. Humphreys School of Law, UofM Lambuth and Grad Housing Options. Check Out Our Campuses > # 126 U.S. News and World Report Top Public Schools View All Rankings Contact Us 360 Administration Building provost@memphis.edu 901.678.2119 Contact Us Follow UofM Online InstagramFacebooktwitterLinkedIn Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 4/12/22 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.