Prospective StudentsJSG CommunityAlumni & GivingRecruiters & Companies Facebook Twitter YouTube RSS News Feed About Mission & Vision Leadership Departments & Research Units Holland Family Student Center Offices Career Services Business Services Office Development and Alumni Relations Office of Communications Information Technology Services Office of Broader Impacts of Geoscience Research (BIGR) Contacts Directions & Maps Diversity and Inclusion Quick Facts History Faculty Through Time, In Memoriam Hall of Distinction JSG Workplace Issues Research Research Themes Climate & the Environment Energy Geosciences Marine Geosciences Planetary Sciences & Geobiology Solid Earth & Tectonic Processes Surface & Hydrologic Processes Research Disciplines Programs & Centers Laboratories & Facilities Industry Collaborations Find an Expert Education Undergraduate Advising Admissions Internal Transfers Degrees Offered Jackson Scholars Program Honors Program Financial Support Courses & Catalogs Field Experiences Why Geosciences? TNT 2021 Graduate Advising Admissions Degrees Offered EER Graduate Program Find a Supervisor Financial Support Courses & Catalogs External Grants & Scholarships Graduate Studies Committee Advising & Program Coordination Rankings Student Research Opportunities Student Organizations Writer-in-Residence Services Career Center Geology Library Holland Family Student Center People Distinguished Postdoctoral Fellows Program Find an Expert Scientist Profiles Employment Opportunities Visiting Assistant Professors of Practice in Chemical or Physical Hydrogeology Visiting Assistant Professors of Practice in Structural Geology/Tectonics JSG Community Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Faculty & Research Scientists Postdocs Staff Tuition Rebates for Undergraduates Faculty Through Time, In Memoriam Outreach For K-12 Students For K-12 Teachers For Everyone People News Media Releases Dean’s Desk Blogs Texas Geosciences Science Y’all In the News Scientist Profiles Newsletter 2015 Newsletter 2014 Newsletter PDF Archive Media Contacts Events DeFord Lecture Series Master’s Saturday Heads/Chairs on the Future of Undergraduate Geoscience Education Workshop Summit Materials, PowerPoints and Webcast Archive Background Reading Agenda Graduation Distinguished Lectures Association Meetings GSA 2014 SEG 2012 GSA 2012 2011 Meetings DGS Vehicle Reservation Calendar Submit an Event Skip to main content Close Search Bar Prospective StudentsJSG CommunityAlumni & GivingRecruiters & Companies SearchMake a Gift About Mission & Vision Leadership Departments & Units Offices Contacts Diversity and Inclusion JSG Workplace Issues Research Research Themes Programs & Centers Laboratories & Facilities Industry Collaborations Find an Expert Education Undergraduate Graduate Advising Rankings Student Research Opportunities Student Organizations Writer-in-Residence Services People JSG Directory Find an Expert Scientist Profiles Distinguished Postdoctoral Fellows Program Employment Opportunities Outreach For K-12 Students For K-12 Teachers For Everyone People News Media Releases Dean’s Office Blogs In the News Newsletter Media Contacts Events Events Calendar Lectures & Seminars Association Meetings Summits JSG Graduation Menu Home About Offices Office of Communications Office of Communications The mission of the Jackson School of Geosciences Communications Office is to help build and enhance awareness of the Jackson School and its units and increase the understanding of the value of geosciences and their benefit to society. We work to accomplish this goal through a variety of tactics, including press releases, media outreach, social media, school publications and strategic marketing. At the heart of these efforts is the research, work and stories of the school’s students, faculty and scientists. If you have a story you would like to share, or would like to speak with someone about communications, please contact one of the members of the school’s communications office listed below. Staff Anton Caputo Director of Communications Anton oversees all communications and media relations at the Jackson School of Geosciences. Before joining the Jackson School in 2014, Anton had a career as an award-winning journalist specializing in energy and environmental issues, with stops at newspapers in Washington State and Florida before finally moving to Texas to work at the San Antonio Express-News. Directly prior to joining the Jackson School, Anton was a senior communications specialist for the Lower Colorado River Authority specializing in water and drought issues. He is a graduate of the University of Oregon School of Journalism. Email: anton.caputo@jsg.utexas.edu Office: 512- 232-9623 Cell: 210-602-2085 (call or text) Monica Kortsha Science Writer Monica tells the story of research at the Jackson School. From press releases, to feature stories, to blog posts and tweets, she communicates across a variety of mediums to share scientific findings from the school with the community here in Austin and across the globe. Before joining the Jackson School in 2015, she worked as a feature writer at UT’s Institute for Computational Engineering and Sciences, and reported on science and research for a local online news outlet. She is a UT alumna, earning undergraduate degrees in biology and journalism. Email: mkortsha@jsg.utexas.edu Office: 512-471-2241 Laura Hernandez Designer Laura manages the Jackson School’s visual identity. She creates graphics and layouts for internal and external communications, digital and print media, press releases, and social media, and maintains the Jackson School’s logos and branding guidelines. Originally from Sonora, Texas, she is a graduate of Texas Tech University and is currently pursuing a master’s degree in advertising from the Moody College of Communication at UT. Email: lmartin@jsg.utexas.edu Office: 512-232-8052 Constantino Panagopulos Communication Specialist Constantino’s focus is communications for the University of Texas Institute for Geophysics, a unit of the Jackson School of Geosciences. He promotes the Institution’s achievements and activities through print and images, and manages its online and media presence. He is happiest when writing about geophysics and how our world works. Before coming to the US, Constantino worked in communications in Turkey and the United Kingdom. He has degrees in psychology and literature, and a master’s in international relations. He also knows a bit about cats. Email: costa@ig.utexas.edu Cell: 512-574-7376 Members of the media looking for information on the Jackson School or expert sources should contact communications director Anton Caputo or science writer Monica Kortsha at the contact information above. Logos, Powerpoint Template & Branding Logos The Jackson School of Geosciences logo is the primary means by which we are recognized and should appear on all JSG communications. Each unit also has an associated logo and may be downloaded and used as outlined in these guidelines in all print and digital. Available file formats include PNG (transparent background), JPG (white background), and EPS (vector). Logo color options are full black, orange and black, and full white. Jackson School of Geosciences Download: PNG | JPG | EPS Department of Geological Sciences Download: PNG | JPG | EPS Bureau of Economic Geology Download: PNG | JPG | EPS Institute for Geophysics Download: PNG | JPG | EPS JSG Branded Powerpoint template jsg_ppt_template JSG Brand Standards Manual JSG Brand Manual Researcher & Student Profiles JSG researcher and student profiles highlight a researcher’s bio, contact info, research, awards, lectures, photos, web links, etc. These profiles are the main source of contact for each JSG researcher throughout the JSG website. Most contact information is pulled from the UT directory and refreshed nightly. JSG provides profiles for Faculty, Emeritus, Research Scientists, Research Staff, Postdocs and Graduate Students. How do I edit my profile? You can edit your profile by logging on to our Profile Administration Application. If you have a direct administrative staff or student working with you or your group, you can designate them as an editor of your profile. This will allow them to make edits to your profile on your behalf. Editor designations can be requested by submitting an IT Help Ticket (be sure to include the editor’s name and UT EID). Profile Admin URL: https://apps.jsg.utexas.edu/profiles Request a profile All profiles are automatically generated but if you have a unique appointment a profile may not be generated. To request a profile, submit a IT Help Ticket and include your name, UT EID and affiliation type (faculty, emeritus, research scientist, research staff, postdoc or graduate student). Profile questions or problems If you need assistance or need to report a problem, please submit an IT Help Ticket. Submit a Question for Chat with the Dean Submit a question to Chat with the Dean, a monthly video news chat with Jackson School of Geosciences Dean Claudia Mora. All questions will be reviewed by the Jackson School’s Office of Communications. Submit Question Photo/Media Release Form Photo/Media Release Form About Mission & Vision Leadership Departments & Research Units Holland Family Student Center Offices Career Services Business Services Office Development and Alumni Relations Office of Communications Information Technology Services Office of Broader Impacts of Geoscience Research (BIGR) Contacts Directions & Maps Diversity and Inclusion Quick Facts History JSG Workplace Issues Mailing Address Jackson School of Geosciences 2305 Speedway Stop C1160 Austin, TX 78712-1692 Phone (512) 471-6048 Support JSG Departments & Units Department of Geological Sciences Bureau of Economic Geology Institute for Geophysics Administration & Offices College Leadership Career Services Business Services Development and Alumni Relations Office of Communications Information Technology Office Helpful Links UT Austin UT Direct Emergency Information IT Help JSG Directory JSG Profiles Contact Us Facebook Twitter YouTube RSS News Feed © 2022 Jackson School of Geosciences, The University of Texas at Austin Web Privacy | Web Accessibility Policy | Adobe Reader