Skip to main content Skip to main content SMU Home Giving Giving Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. Simmons About Dean's Message Programs, Degrees, and Certifications Faculty and Staff Directory Simmons Governance Simmons School History Executive Board Simmons Luminary Award XPRIZE Honor Code Simmons Resources Travel-Study Programs Simmons Lecture Series AERA 2022 Graduation Ceremony May 2022 Paving the Way to Inclusion Conference Simmons Graduate Council Faculty and Administrative Position Openings Simmons Blogs and Social Media Hub Annette Caldwell Simmons Hall Harold Clark Simmons Hall Photo Tour Contact Us Academic Departments & Areas of Study Applied Physiology & Wellness B.S. | Applied Physiology & Sport Mgmt. Undergraduate Specializations Applied Physiology and Health Management Sport Management Sport Performance Leadership M.S. | Health Promotion Management M.S. | Sport Management Non-Degree | Wellness Dispute Resolution & Counseling M.S. | Counseling Specialties Clinical Mental Health Marriage, Couple and Family School Counseling M.A. | Dispute Resolution Non-Degree | Dispute Resolution Specialties Executive Coaching Education Policy & Leadership M.Ed. | PK-12 School Leadership M.Ed. | Higher Education Ed.D. | PK-12 School Leadership Ed.D. | Higher Education Graduate Liberal Studies MLS | Science, Arts, & Humanities DLS | Science, Arts, & Humanities Non-Degree | Science, Arts, & Humanities Ph.D. in Education Teaching & Learning B.S. | M.Ed | MBE | Ph.D. Graduate Specializations Bilingual Special Ed ESL Gifted Literacy Math STEM Urban Education Research Research A comprehensive list of Simmons research projects Faculty Research Publications & Presentations Recent research publications and presentations Center on Research & Evaluation (CORE) Offers comprehensive program evaluation services, largely in the non-profit sector, and performs education research Research in Mathematics Education Conducts research in mathematics education and disseminates findings Integrative Physiology Laboratory Investigates autonomic function and thermoregulation in healthy and clinical populations Locomotor Performance Laboratory Studies terrestrial locomotion and the relationship of muscle function to metabolic energy expenditure and performance Center for VR Learning Innovation Investigates the use of virtual, augmented and mixed reality for education and human development Youth Sports Impact Partnership SMU and the Children’s Health Andrews Institute have launched a collaboration dedicated to improving the health, activity levels, and well-being of kids. Research Resources for Simmons Faculty and Staff Technology and Education Cluster Our Faculty Community Engagement Advanced Placement Summer Institute Summer Institute for AP and Pre-AP Teachers The Budd Center Partners with community agencies to offer educational opportunities for disadvantaged children Center for Family Counseling Counseling services in Plano for individuals and families College Access Programs Programs and workshops that help students advance academically Institute for Leadership Impact Leaders in education, health and social enterprise enhance skills to lead organizations and solve real-world problems Project Connect A repository of ideas, activities and videos for educators interested in improving instruction for English Language Learners West Dallas STEM-Focused School Preparing students for the next generation of STEM jobs Alumni Search Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. Navigate Search Skip to main content Teacher Education Undergraduate Undergraduate Undergraduate Programs UG Academic Records and Advising The Charles Butt Scholarship Graduate Graduate Admission Master of Education Program Master of Bilingual Education Master of Education: Educator Preparation Master of Education in Special Education Tuition Graduate Specializations Graduate Specializations Admission Tuition Bilingual Education Specialization Program English as a Second Language (ESL) Supplemental Specialization Gifted & Talented Specialization Learning Therapy Specialization Literacy Studies Mathematics Specialization Special Education Specialization STEM Specialization Urban Education Specialization Ph.D. Admission Course Descriptions ☰ Special Education Specialization SMU Simmons: Ranked among the top 12 private graduate schools of education nationally and among the top 3 public & private schools in Texas. Teacher Education Graduate Specializations Special Education Apply Now Request Information Course Descriptions Today's diverse classrooms mean that every educator must be able to teach every student- regardless of academic or social ability. The Special Education specialization provides a foundation of the legal, historical, and instructional knowledge that any teacher should have. These classes provide both instructional techniques and behavioral interventions that teachers need to be successful with every student. The curriculum consists of four three-hour graduate courses all of which can be applied to the specialization module of SMU's Master of Education (M.Ed.) degree (pending acceptance into the M.Ed. program). Successful graduates of the Special Education specialization are prepared to take the Special Education TExES (Texas Examination for Educator Standards); those who pass the exam earn Special Education certification. The four Special Education courses can be completed in one year. EDU 6356. Foundations of Special Education EDU 6357. Assessment for Special Educators EDU 6389. Instructional Strategies for Intensive Intervention EDU 6360. Behavioral Interventions in the Classroom More information on the M.Ed. in Special Education. Graduate Specializations Admission Tuition and Scholarships Bilingual Education English as a Second Language (ESL) Gifted and Talented Learning Therapy Literacy Studies Mathematics Special Education STEM Urban Education Request Information Upcoming Events Request info Contact the Department of Teaching & Learning Contact Us 214-768-2346 teacher@smu.edu Request Information Visit Us Harold Clark Simmons Hall 6401 Airline Rd., Suite 301 Dallas, TX 75205 Contact Us Maps and Directions Legal Disclosures © Southern Methodist University, PO Box 750100, Dallas, TX 75275 facebook twitter