Skip to main content FSU >> FSU LIBRARIES Top Right Search Box Search Our Website... * OneSearch | My Account Florida State University Libraries Search & Find Advanced Search Find a Database Journal Search Special Collections Search DigiNole Search Services & Research All Services Subject Librarians Distance Learning Digital Research & Scholarship Special Collections & Archives Government Information About the Libraries Libraries Overview Member Libraries Departments Accessibility @ FSU Libraries Diversity & Inclusion Giving to the Libraries Facts & Figures Strategic Plan Advancement Board Materials & Borrowing Borrowing Materials Library Express Delivery Interlibrary Loan Materials Purchase Request Help & Support Get Help Library Hours Maps & Directions Visitor Information COVID Guidelines Home >> List of Services >> Research Help Get Help Connect with a Librarian Find my Subject Librarian Schedule a Consultation Walk-In Services All FSU Libraries offer walk in reference services for our students, faculty, and staff. Our circulation and reference desks are staffed by trained information specialists or librarians who can help you with quick or more complex questions. Please see our Research Help page for more information about when our libraries are open and available to assist you. Live Lib Chat Self-Guided Resources Research Guides Videos & Tutorials Frequently Asked Questions Library Hours Self-Care and Wellness University Counseling Center Office of Accessibility Services Healthy Campus Dean of Students Most Asked Questions What is an example of a peer reviewed journal? General definitions of the kinds of articles written are: Peer-reviewed: Articles reviewed by experts in that subject or field to ensure validity and reliability before publication. These articles should be used as sources for research papers. Popular: articles written from a non-scholarly perspective, such as those in newpapers and magazines Special notes: Another name for peer-reviewed is refereed The term periodical refers to any published work of articles. For example, a magazine is a popular periodical Check out our video tutorial. I just graduated/I am an alumni. Can I still use my FSU card to use the library? If you are no longer registered for classes, you cannot use your FSU ID to check out materials. However, alumni and visitors are invited to conduct research inside the university libraries. Borrowing privileges for alumni and visitors can be obtained by purchasing a Community Borrowers Card. How do I add money to my FSU Card? Adding Funds to your FSUCash Account: Online: Students can add funds using credit/debit cards via myFSU or Blackboard by clicking on the FSUCard tab. Parents/Guests may add funds to a student account by going to the FSUCash Guest Deposit Site. On-campus: PHIL stations using cash or credit/debit cards (located at the FSUCard Center, Dirac and Strozier libraries, and the College of Law, Alumni Village.) Effective May 1, 2016, PHIL stations will accept ONLY cash and will NOT accept credit/debit cards. To add funds using credit/debit cards, download the Blackboard Transact Mobile eAccounts app or visit fsucard.fsu.edu/eaccounts. In person at the FSUCard Center using cash or check. To place cash on your card in The Strozier Library go to the first floor (or main floor) and see the ATM-looking machine with a big sign on it that reads "FSU CASH" next to the circulation desk. Does Strozier have copy machines? Strozier library has several color and black and white copiers and printers. To see the locations, or for instructions about how to use them with your laptop, go to https://www.lib.fsu.edu/printing-scanning-copying. What time does Starbucks open in Strozier library? Monday - Thursday: Open 24 hours Friday: Open until 5:00pm Saturday: 10:00am - 5:00pm Sunday: 12pm - 24 hours Come see the nation's first double-sided Starbucks! This full service features all of your favorites including frappucinos, hot breakfast, lunch items, and grab-n-go food. Where is the lost and found? Lost and Found items within Strozier and Dirac library are turned into the Library Security Desk. All items are inventoried and turned over to the University Lost and Found located in the Student Union Information Center. FSU ID cards are turned in to the security desk at Strozier and Dirac. The cards are held until the FSU Card Center staff inventory and pick up lost ID cards each weekday. If you have recently lost an item, first check with the library's security desk. Need more information? Call: University Libraries Security (850) 644-5426 Circulation- Undergraduate Services (850) 644-1486 See all Frequently Asked Questions... Service Categories: Research Help Service Redirect Link: https://www.lib.fsu.edu/get-help About The Florida State University Libraries The mission of the University Libraries is to support and enhance the learning, teaching, research, and service activities of the Florida State University... READ MORE > Library Hours Maps and Directions Our Libraries Staff Directory Subject Librarians All Forms Library News Library Departments Library Events Library Services Employment Visiting the Libraries Giving to the Libraries Policies About the Libraries FAQ Government Information Staff Intranet Content Editor Login Internal Knowledge Base © Florida State University Libraries 116 Honors Way Tallahassee, FL 32306 Website Suggestions Privacy Principles Copyright Policy Contact Us (850) 644-2706 Search Articles, Books and More... * Connect with us!