Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. Campus Recreation Campus Recreation right arrow down arrow Hours & Schedules right arrow down arrow Campus Recreation Center (CRC) Fitness Center at CARE/Crawley Aquatics Fitness Classes Intramurals Climbing Wall Severe Weather Policy COVID-19 Operations right arrow down arrow Fitness Floor Map Virtual Resources Visit right arrow down arrow Getting Started right arrow down arrow Fitness Floor Orientation Equipment Tutorials Parking Facility Hours Terms & Conditions Lockers & Towels Pro Shop FAQ Things To Do right arrow down arrow Fitness Classes right arrow down arrow Online Fitness Fitness Programs & Special Events 30 Minute Workout Area Personal Training Trainings & Certifications Aquatics Climbing right arrow down arrow Policies & Waiver Intramural Sports right arrow down arrow Intramural Sports Rules right arrow down arrow Intramural Sports Handbook 3-on-3 Basketball 5-on-5 Basketball 7-on-7 Football 7-on-7 Soccer 11-on-11 Soccer 4-on-4 Volleyball 6-on-6 Volleyball Dodgeball Futsal Kickball Pickleball Softball Spikeball Tennis Ultimate Wallyball FAQ Racquetball REC Kids Camp right arrow down arrow Parent/Guardian Guide Team Building Pickleball Membership right arrow down arrow Rates & Discounts Fitness Floor Orientation Terms & Conditions Facilities & Rentals right arrow down arrow Facility Rentals Birthday Parties Process Rates Policies Reservation Jobs right arrow down arrow Staff Directory Student Employment Home » Campus Life » Campus Recreation » Things To Do » Intramural Sports » FAQ Set Navigation title in component Fitness Classes Online Fitness Fitness Programs & Special Events 30 Minute Workout Area Personal Training Trainings & Certifications Aquatics Climbing Policies & Waiver Intramural Sports Intramural Sports Rules Intramural Sports Handbook 3-on-3 Basketball 5-on-5 Basketball 7-on-7 Football 7-on-7 Soccer 11-on-11 Soccer 4-on-4 Volleyball 6-on-6 Volleyball Dodgeball Futsal Kickball Pickleball Softball Spikeball Tennis Ultimate Wallyball FAQ Racquetball REC Kids Camp Parent/Guardian Guide Team Building Pickleball FAQ For a complete list of policies and procedures, please review our Intramural Sports Handbook. If you do not see the answer to your question below, please send it via email to intramural@uc.edu. schedule Intramural Sports Handbook IMLeagues Quick Links General Eligibility Registration IMLeagues League Play Employment General Where are games played? right arrow down arrow Depending on your sport, games may be played in the Campus Recreation Center, Nippert Stadium, Gettler Stadium, Sheakley Athletics Complex, or Marge Schott Stadium. When is the sport I want to participate in offered? right arrow down arrow Our sport offerings are divided into four seasons over two semesters. Please visit our Intramural Sports and schedule pages for specifics. How do I suggest a new intramural sport or event? right arrow down arrow We are always looking for new ideas! Send your suggestion to intramural@uc.edu. What do intramural champions receive as a prize? right arrow down arrow League winners receive an intramural championship t-shirt. In addition, the team's photo will be displayed on the intramural wall of fame Can spectators watch intramural games? right arrow down arrow Spectators are invited to watch intramural games. However, if intramural games are in the Campus Recreation Center, and it is not championship night or a special event, participants must purchase a day pass or possess a Campus Recreation Center membership to enter the facility. Eligibility Who can play on an intramural team? right arrow down arrow UC Intramural Sports are open to current UC students, faculty and staff. These individuals must have an active membership to the UC Campus Recreation Center to be eligible to play. How many players can I have on my roster? right arrow down arrow Each sport is different, please view your sport's rules to find the roster maximum. Can I play on multiple teams? right arrow down arrow An individual may play on one gender-specific team of his or her own gender, and one coed team per sport, per season. Can I have a varsity athlete on my team? right arrow down arrow In the same or a similar sport, varsity athletes must sit out 365 days from last participation to be eligible for an intramural team. For example, a varsity football player must sit out a year prior to participating on an intramural flag football team. How many club athletes can I have on my team? right arrow down arrow In a similar sport: Number of competitive club sports players allowed based on the sport played Number of Players Sports One competitive club sport player per roster 3-on-3 Basketball, 4-on-4 Flag Football, 4-on-4 Volleyball, Futsal, Wallyball Two competitive club sport players per roster 5-on-5 Basketball, 6-on-6 Volleyball, 7-on-7 Flag Football, 7-on-7 Soccer, 11-on-11 Soccer, Softball, Ultimate Frisbee Club athletes must compete in the most competitive league offered. For example, a club volleyball player cannot play in a Coed Recreational volleyball league if a Coed Competitive league is offered. Registration How do I register for an intramural sport? right arrow down arrow Pay for your team during the sport's registration period online through myMemberServices. Register your team on IMLeagues. Please note: Payment reserves a team's spot in the desired sport/league/night. Registering a team on IMLeagues prior to payment does not hold a spot for a team. If you need to pay with a check, please come to the front desk during normal business hours. Checks may be made payable to "University of Cincinnati." As a captain, is there anything I need to do before the season starts? right arrow down arrow Yes, captains must complete two tasks prior to the season start: Complete the online captain's meeting and pass the quiz prior to season start date. Have the minimum number of players confirmed on your IMLeagues roster by noon of the season start date. For complete instructions on how to do these items, please visit the Intramural Sports page. How much does it cost to play in intramurals? right arrow down arrow Fees vary based on the sport, please visit our Intramural Sports page for specific fees. Please note payment must be received in order to hold a specific league/night spot. Signing up on IMLeagues does not guarantee the desired night/time. Where/how do I complete the required online captain's quiz? right arrow down arrow After registering your team on IMLeagues, go to your team’s home page. At the top of the page will be a red bar that says, “The team captain must pass a quiz for this team. To take the quiz Click Here.” Select Click Here. Watch the video and complete the quiz. Your score will be displayed. You must correctly answer at least eight of ten questions to pass. If you did not, select Re-take Quiz at the bottom of the page. Failure to pass the quiz by the deadline will render the team ineligible for playoffs. IMLeagues How do I create my team on IMLeagues? right arrow down arrow Login to the UC IMLeagues website. If you do not have an account, select Create Account at the top of the page. Select Register in the middle of the page. Scroll down and select the sport and league that you registered for (e.g., Men's Recreational Basketball). Select Create Team under the day/time that you paid for and follow the instructions. Your team's status will default to Pending. An administrator will change it to Confirmed within one to three business days of your payment. How do I change my team name on IMLeagues right arrow down arrow Login. If you have not logged in before, create an account, or reset password if you are unable to login and already have an account. Your team will show up on the ensuing page. Click on the team name. On the left side of the page, select Team Options and then Team Settings. Type in your new team name and select Change Team Name. Your submission will be reviewed by our administrative staff. Team names that are misleading or inappropriate may be rejected and sent back to be resubmitted. Do I have to add all my players to IMLeagues? right arrow down arrow We encourage all captains to add all players on IMLeagues, however just the minimum number of confirmed players is required by the season start: 3-on-3 Basketball - Two players 4-on-4 Flag Football - Three players 4-on-4 Volleyball - Three players 5-on-5 Basketball - Four players 6-on-6 Volleyball - Four players 7-on-7 Flag Football - Five players 7-on-7 Soccer - Five players 11-on-11 Soccer - Nine players Dodgeball - Four players Futsal - Four players Softball - Nine players Ultimate Frisbee - Five players Wallyball - Three players How do I invite a player to my team on IMLeagues? right arrow down arrow Go to the team’s home page in IMLeagues. In the middle of the page will be a roster box. Select Invite. Enter your team members’ email addresses to invite or you may search using first/last name. The player must accept the invitation to be confirmed and added to the roster. How do I confirm/deny player requests on IMLeagues? right arrow down arrow Go to the team’s home page in IMLeagues. If players have requested to be added, there will be a red box near the top of the page that says, “Pending Request! You have # request(s) to join your team. View.” Select View. Select Confirm or Deny for each player. League Play How many games will my team play in? right arrow down arrow Each team will be scheduled for at least four regular season games. As long as a team qualifies for playoffs, it is guaranteed at least one (1) additional game. How does my team make playoffs? right arrow down arrow To qualify for playoffs, a team/captain must satisfy all of the following requirements: The captain completed the online captain's quiz (through IMLeagues) and passed the online quiz by the communicated deadline. The team had zero forfeits during the regular season -OR- paid the $20 reinstatement fee by the communicated deadline if the team had one forfeit. The team finished the regular season with a 3.0 average sportsmanship rating or higher. What time do I have to be at my game? right arrow down arrow We recommend being on the field or court at least 10 minutes before your scheduled game time to allow time for warm ups and signing in. If your team is 10 or more minutes late, the game will be forfeited. If your team is one (1) to nine (9) minutes late, your team will incur a late penalty that differs per sport. My team cannot attend next week's game. What do I do? right arrow down arrow Please contact us at intramural@uc.edu to default your game. If your team defaults (concedes) at least 48 hours in advance, you will not be charged with a forfeit, and you will not need to pay a reinstatement fee. What is my team allowed to wear? right arrow down arrow All players must wear athletic clothing during intramural play. The following restrictions also apply: Jewelry is not allowed. This includes, but is not limited to: fitness bands, bracelets, caps, hats, bandanas, rings, necklaces, and earrings. Medical or religious bracelets/necklaces are allowed and must be taped to the skin with medical tape. Sweatbands are also allowed. For indoor sports, non-marking athletic shoes must be worn. For outdoor sports, metal or detachable cleats are not allowed. For flag football, clothing with pockets are not allowed. Pockets cannot be turned inside out or taped shut. Do you provide jerseys? Can my team purchase jerseys? right arrow down arrow We will provide jerseys for use for sports that require jerseys or practice jersey. Teams may purchase their own custom jerseys if they desire. If purchasing jerseys for use in basketball, all digits on the jerseys must be between 0-5. Numbers cannot be three digits or more (e.g., 123). It looks like the weather will be bad tonight. How do I know if my game is cancelled? right arrow down arrow Please call our intramural hotline at 513-556-4FUN (4386). This will be the first thing updated in the case of delays or cancellations. All captains will receive an email should their game status change. Employment How do I apply to work in the intramural sports department? right arrow down arrow Please inquire about opportunities with UC Intramural Sports by email at intramural@uc.edu. Campus Recreation Center | 2820 Bearcat Way | Cincinnati OH 45221 | 513-556-0604 Fitness Center at Care Crawley | 3230 Eden Avenue | Cincinnati OH 45267 | 513-558-0604 campusrec@uc.edu UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati Campus Recreation Center | 2820 Bearcat Way | Cincinnati OH 45221 | 513-556-0604 Fitness Center at Care Crawley | 3230 Eden Avenue | Cincinnati OH 45267 | 513-558-0604 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top