Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Student Leadership & Involvement Student Engagement Leadership Community Engagement Fraternity & Sorority Life Student Organizations Contact Us Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact Community Engagement Frosh Camp Student Leadership & Professional Competencies Tigers for St.Jude CECP News Report a Concern about a Student Take Action Register for Recruitment Register for Frosh Camp Tiger Zone About Us Follow SLI Online InstagramFacebooktwitter Home Student Leadership & Involvement Community Engagement Community Engagement & Campus Partnerships Student Leadership and Professional Competencies [SLPC] A student engaged through Student Leadership and Involvement will be exposed to a variety of experiences that will enhance what they learn in the classroom. Below are the six competency clusters that University of Memphis students should aim to develop through their different experiences on, and off, campus. <!-- intentionally non-empty iframe; for xsl --> Teamwork & Collaboration: Students will understand and demonstrate the importance of working with others effectively. Learning & Reasoning: Students will understand and demonstrate the importance of gathering data to make informed decisions. Professional & Strategic Planning: Students will be able to project their professional brand, demonstrate effective work habits, and set goals for leadership in college and in their intended career field. Communication & Digital Technology: Students will be able to communicate in a multitude of ways including through use of existing and new technologies Self-Awareness & Personal Behavior: Students will be able to identify their strengths, weaknesses, and ways to develop while being a person of integrity. Leadership & Civic Responsibility: Students will be able to guide a group to reach a common goal and understand their contributions to their community. Tracking Competency Growth <!-- intentionally non-empty iframe; for xsl --> Students can track their development across the Student Leadership & Professional Competencies through reflections in the Experience feature of Tiger Zone. Tracking competency growth allows students to reflect on how their involvement experiences support their co-curricular learning and contribute to their post-collegiate professional life. Click the following link and follow the below steps to begin tracking your competencies! Track your competency growth here! Click "add experience." Select the competency you wish to reflect on. Complete the questions. Click "save." Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/20/21 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.