Skip to main content Skip to main navigation Honors College Menu About Contact Information Events FAQs Give Leadership Honors College Advisory Council News Profiles Social Media Directory Faculty Meet with Us & Learn More! Distinguished Scholars Day Invitation to Excellence Opportunities Experiential Opportunities Baylor 2 Programs Baylor in Washington D.C. The Pulse William Carey Crane Scholars Getterman Scholars Program Application Tips Program Selection Requirements for Consideration Meet Our Getterman Scholars Pre-Health & Science Baylor 2 Medical Track Program Christian Pre-Health Fellowship (CPF) Research & Internship Opportunities Student Research Materials Grant Programs & Majors University Scholars Great Texts Baylor Interdisciplinary Core (BIC) Honors Program Research Faculty Publications Student Research Materials Grant Student Publications Pre-Health & Science Research/Internships Undergraduate Research Assistant Program Scholarships Scholarships for Prospective Students Scholarships for Current Students Scholarships for International Students Study Abroad Study Abroad Scholarships The Honors Residential College Benefits Why Honors (Videos) Choose the Honors College Prestigious Post-Baccalaureate Scholarships & Awards Resources & Events Academic Honors Week Laura Jackson Lecture Drumwright Lecture Career Opportunities & Awards Prestigious Post-Baccalaureate Awards Lecture Videos Publications Recent Faculty Books Student Publications The Pulse Marketing Resources Pre-Advising 2022 Meet Your Major Programs Application Process Application Timeline Honors College Line Camp Questions & Tips Apply Now Give Honors College Love truth, kindle faith, and cultivate virtue in friendship, study, and service to Christ and neighbor. The Honors College unites four innovative programs committed to helping undergraduates pursue questions that often fall between the cracks of the specialized disciplines, by exploring the writings of scientists along with the writings of poets, historians, and philosophers. Explore Opportunities Students may participate in one or more of these opportunities in the Honors College and may mix these opportunities with other non-Honors college options offered by the University. Our students often continue their studies in graduate, medical, or law school upon graduation, or land competitive jobs in diverse fields responsive to their vocation. Majors University Scholars Freedom to pursue multiple disciplines and high-level research opportunities. University Scholars Great Texts Wisdom through life-changing encounters with foundational works of literature, theology, and philosophy. Great Texts General Education Baylor Interdisciplinary Core Integrated learning that fulfills most university general ed requirements. Baylor Interdisciplinary Core Academic Enhancements Honors Program Enhanced learning for any major with independent and innovative research. Honors Program Benefits The Honors College brings together a community of students and faculty devoted to the love of learning, to the cultivation of wonder, and to pursuing life’s most important questions both within and outside of the classroom. Students engage in rich conversations with prominent faculty through two distinct undergraduate majors, University Scholars and Great Texts, as well as two programs, the Baylor Interdisciplinary Core and the Honors Program. More About Benefits of the Honors College Honors Residential College The Honors Residential College (HRC) is an optional multi-year community that fosters intellectual, moral, and spiritual formation through friendship, integrated study, community service, and spiritual engagement. The HRC is home to 330 Baylor students enrolled in one of the Honors College majors or programs above. The HRC is located in Alexander and Memorial Halls. More About the Honors Residential College Profiles Read More Profiles Will Sharkey Student "University Scholars is a wonderful program for students who are interested in taking advanced coursework in multiple subjects." Dr. Jason Whitlark Faculty "I really enjoy the way our students effortlessly move from ancient to Medieval to modern in the ways they think and argue." Jade Connor Alumna "Through my time in the Honors College, I fully appreciate what it means to be called to serve." News Read More News May 27, 2022 The Honors College Launches Undergraduate Research Assistant Program Earlier this spring, Honors College Dean Douglas Henry announced the launch of the Undergraduate Research Assistant Program. This new program, which directly supports Pro Futuris and Illuminate, will provide support for research productive faculty and give Honors College students the opportunity to learn and be mentored as they assist professors. Read More May 18, 2022 Dr. Darren J.N. Middleton Appointed Director of the Baylor Interdisciplinary Core The Honors College is excited to announce that Dr. Darren J.N. Middleton, John F. Weatherly Professor of Religion at Texas Christian University, has accepted appointment as Director of the Baylor Interdisciplinary Core. In addition to his administrative role, he will hold a tenured faculty appointment in the BIC as Professor of Literature and Theology. He is set to begin service effective August 1. Read More May 12, 2022 Baylor Religion Professor Receives Fulbright U.S. Scholar Award to South Korea WACO, Texas (May 12, 2022) – Baylor University Honors College faculty member Candi K. Cann, Ph.D., associate professor of religion in the Baylor Interdisciplinary Core (BIC), has received a Fulbright U.S. Scholar Award to South Korea, a prestigious and competitive fellowship of the Department of State’s Bureau of Educational and Cultural Affairs. Read More Apr. 29, 2022 100 Days of Dante Creates the World’s Largest Dante Reading Group Seven months ago, Baylor’s Honors College embarked on a journey to create the world’s largest Dante reading group through 100 Days of Dante. With the help of Biola University, Gonzaga University, Whitworth University, the University of Dallas, and Eastern University, the project led over 15,000 people from across the globe through the Divine Comedy. Read More Events See More Events Follow Us on Social Media Honors College Contact Us ApplyVisitMake a GiftBaylor Interdisciplinary CoreGreat TextsHonors Residential CollegeHonors ProgramUniversity Scholars General Information Colleges, Schools, Libraries & Research Admissions Administration Gateways For... About Baylor Anonymous Reporting Athletics Ask Baylor Bookstore Calendar Campus Map Directory Give Light Give to Baylor Illuminate Mental Health Resources News Pro Futuris Report It Search Social Media Title IX Baylor Libraries College of Arts & Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work George W. Truett Theological Seminary Graduate School Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Louise Herrington School of Nursing Research at Baylor University Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Engineering & Computer Science School of Music More Academics Undergraduate Admissions goBAYLOR Graduate Admissions Baylor Law School Admissions Social Work Graduate Programs George W. Truett Theological Seminary Admissions Online Graduate Professional Education Virtual Tour Visit Campus Annual Fire Safety and Security Notice Athletics Human Resources Marketing and Communications Office of General Counsel Office of the President Office of the Provost Operations, Finance & Administration Senior Administration Student Life University Advancement Baylor Alumni Faculty & Staff Online Graduate Professional Education Parents Prospective Faculty & Staff Prospective Students Students Copyright © Baylor® University. All rights reserved. Legal Disclosures. Baylor University • Waco, Texas 76798 • 1-800-229-5678 About Contact Information Events FAQs Give Leadership Honors College Advisory Council News Profiles Social Media Directory Faculty Meet with Us & Learn More! Distinguished Scholars Day Invitation to Excellence Opportunities Experiential Opportunities Baylor 2 Programs Baylor in Washington D.C. The Pulse William Carey Crane Scholars Getterman Scholars Program Application Tips Program Selection Requirements for Consideration Meet Our Getterman Scholars Pre-Health & Science Baylor 2 Medical Track Program Christian Pre-Health Fellowship (CPF) Research & Internship Opportunities Student Research Materials Grant Programs & Majors University Scholars Great Texts Baylor Interdisciplinary Core (BIC) Honors Program Research Faculty Publications Student Research Materials Grant Student Publications Pre-Health & Science Research/Internships Undergraduate Research Assistant Program Scholarships Scholarships for Prospective Students Scholarships for Current Students Scholarships for International Students Study Abroad Study Abroad Scholarships The Honors Residential College Benefits Why Honors (Videos) Choose the Honors College Prestigious Post-Baccalaureate Scholarships & Awards Resources & Events Academic Honors Week Laura Jackson Lecture Drumwright Lecture Career Opportunities & Awards Prestigious Post-Baccalaureate Awards Lecture Videos Publications Recent Faculty Books Student Publications The Pulse Marketing Resources Pre-Advising 2022 Meet Your Major Programs Application Process Application Timeline Honors College Line Camp Questions & Tips Apply Now Give