Skip to the main content United States Air Force Academy Go to home page image/svg+xml Page 1 Go to home page Link to home page Virtual Tour Radio Parents Graduates Visitors Prep School Graduation Newsletter Apply Today Menu Search the Site Academics A rigorous academic program that balances STEM with the arts and humanities. Academics Core Curriculum Departments Majors & Minors Library Academic Calendar Registrar Faculty and Staff Directory Academic Success Center Request a Transcript Investigator or Verifications Admissions News Research Learn more about cutting-edge research that supports the Air Force and our global society. Research Office of Research Research Centers Cadet Summer Research STEM Outreach Future Conflict Cadet Life Take a peek into the life of a United States Air Force Academy cadet. Cadet Life Dormitories & Dining Cadet Clubs Cadet Support Services Day in the Life Frequently Asked Questions Military With a focus on innovation and adaptation to the changing world of warfare, we’re setting higher expectations for what it means to serve. Military Basic Cadet Training Squadrons Airmanship Military Careers Wings of Blue Athletics About There’s no limit to what you will achieve here. Academics. Athletics. Military training. We deliver the future leaders of modern warfare. About Leadership Character Development History Awards Traditions Educational Innovation More Virtual Tour Radio Parents Graduates Visitors Prep School Graduation Newsletter Apply Today United States Air Force Academy Coronavirus Updates Throughout the pandemic, the United States Air Force Academy (USAFA) has not wavered on its mission to educate, train and inspire men and women to become officers and leaders of character. As one of the first and only universities in the nation to have its entire student body return to campus, our cadets, faculty and staff have shared the responsibility of keeping our community healthy and safe. We remain committed to an in-person academic and extracurricular experience for Spring 2022. We are slowly reopening the installation services, activities and workplaces, including welcoming back the general public to visit. You may also explore our campus online by launching the interactive, 360-degree virtual tour. Tour stops include the Cadet Chapel, Jacks Valley, Mitchell Hall, Falcon Stadium and more! Launch Virtual Tour GRADUATION 2022 For Graduation events, all guests should follow the guidance provided on the Graduation page. Current Status As of March 10, 2022, we have transitioned to Health Protection Condition (HPCON) level “A” and continue to safeguard service members, community and the national defense missions supported here. HPCON-A indicates a limited risk of disease being spread. Members are encouraged to stay home when sick, get tested for COVID-19 if symptomatic, wear a mask if symptomatic and follow Center for Disease Control recommendations for isolation and quarantine. On August 30, 2021, the United States Air Force Academy held a vaccination point of distribution for cadets to receive the COVID-19 vaccine in line with the guidance from the Secretary of Defense. Department of Defense guidance is that only vaccines fully licensed by the FDA are mandated for service members. To learn more about the Department of the Air Force guidance on immunizations, click here. Currently, no administrative or disciplinary actions will be taken against cadets who do not receive the vaccine. Service-level policies, when released, determine what, if any, actions will be taken. The Secretary of Defense has indicated that the health and well-being of our Department of Defense personnel are a readiness issue. Military personnel protect the nation from great threats and they should be protected themselves as much as possible from COVID-19. As the Department does with other deadly infections, we protect the force through the best tool available, vaccination. Required vaccinations to protect the force are routine for the DoD, including the annual influenza vaccination. The DoD currently requires at least nine vaccines for individuals entering military service and up to 17 vaccines depending on the Service member’s role and geographic region. The COVID-19 vaccine has been available voluntarily to the United States Air Force Academy population since January 2021. The COVID-19 vaccines have been shown to be safe and effective, which is why senior leadership across the institution encourages all members to get vaccinated to protect themselves and others. As we progress into 2022, the new COVID-19 variants will require continued diligence. COVID-19 vaccines are highly effective at preventing severe illness, hospitalization, and death; but to maintain robust efficacy vaccines require a booster. The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention strongly recommend a booster shot five months after receiving the Pfizer vaccine, six months after the Moderna vaccine, or two months after the Johnson & Johnson vaccine. To book a vaccination appointment via the 10th Medical Group, click here. Questions about vaccinations should be emailed to usaf.usafa.10-mdg.mbx.public-health@mail.mil. COMMUNICATIONS Recent communications sent to the campus community related to the coronavirus outbreak is provided below. March 10, 2022 – USAFA Transition to Health Protection Condition Alpha (HPCON-A) March 1, 2022 – OUSDP-R Updated Guidance for Mask and Screening Testing March 1, 2022 – Consolidated USAFA Exception to Policy on the Use of Masks February 7, 2022 – Consolidated USAFA Exception to Policy on the Use of Masks January 4, 2022 – Pause on USAFA Exceptions to Policy on the Use of Masks September 8, 2021 – Consolidated USAFA Guidance and Exceptions to Policy on the Use of Masks Indoors July 29, 2021 – USAFA Updated Guidance on the Use of Masks Indoors April 30, 2021 – 90-Day Extension of Public Health Emergency February 5, 2021 – 90-Day Extension of Public Health Emergency CADET UPDATES Cadets suspected of exposure to the virus or showing signs of illness will be assessed. If the assessment shows the cadet may have been exposed, they will be quarantined and tested. If the test results are positive, the cadet will remain in isolation until 1) 5 days from start of symptoms, 2) 24 hours fever free, and 3) symptoms are improving. January 5, 2022 – Cadet Wing COVID Rules and Response Phases Employee UPDATES On September 9, 2021, the President of the United States directed mandatory COVID-19 vaccination for all Federal employees in order to ensure the health and safety of the Federal workforce and members of the public with whom they interact, subject to exceptions as provided by law. Subsequently, the Deputy Secretary of Defense issued “Mandatory Coronavirus Disease 2019 Vaccination of DoD Civilian Employees,” dated October 1, 2021, and the Department of the Air Force implemented that directive by memorandum from the Secretary of the Air Force, “Mandatory Coronavirus Disease 2019 Vaccination of Department of the Air Force Civilian Employees”, dated October 8, 2021. In accordance with this guidance, all civilian employees must be fully vaccinated against COVID-19 no later than November 22, 2021, unless the employee has an approved exemption or pending exemption request based on religious reasons or medical conditions. For frequently asked questions, click here. All Department of the Air Force civilian employees and military members who are not fully vaccinated are required to undergo COVID-19 screening testing. To learn more, click here. For frequently asked questions, supervisors click here and employees click here. Colorado and El Paso County have increasing supplies of the COVID vaccination and boosters. Academy personnel and medical beneficiaries may elect to obtain this vaccination in the local community rather than through the Academy vaccine distributions. Active Duty, Guard, Reserve personnel assigned/attached to the Academy who receive the COVID vaccine outside of the 10th Medical Group are asked to bring a copy of the vaccine information to their primary care provider or our immunizations clinic. To find the vaccine in the local area, click here. Academy personnel continue to transition to a modified workplace that reduces the risk of viral transmission. Such modifications include assigning blue/silver team work shifts so not all workers are working at the same time, rearrangement of the workplace to separate workers by six feet or more and ensuring hand sanitizer and cleaning products are readily available. To pursue teleworking, complete the required training and then complete a telework agreement in coordination with your supervisor. For the latest teleworking guidance, click here. To learn more about our civilian personnel policies as it relates to communicable diseases and influenza, click here. This website provides up-to-date guidance from the Department of the Air Force, Department of Defense and the Office of Personnel Management. Military and civilian personnel may also visit the secure myPers website (CAC required) for more information. If you are unable to access myPers, download the following instructions to access on your personal Apple and Android devices. If employees or supervisors have any questions or require additional information, email 10FSS.FSCA.Main@us.af.mil. January 7, 2022 – Commanders and Supervisors Guide to COVID and Flu Season December 30, 2021 – Tools to Mitigate the Threat of the Omicron Variant of Coronavirus Disease 2019 December 10, 2021 – USAFA Implementation Guidance for Mandatory COVID-19 Screening Testing Requirements October 29, 2021 – USAFA Implementation Guidance for Mandatory COVID-19 Vaccination of Civilian Employees October 29, 2021 – DoD Guidance for Vaccination Attestation, Screening, Testing, and Verification October 25, 2021 – Mandatory COVID-19 Vaccine Implementation Frequently Asked Questions October 22, 2021 – Department of the Air Force Mandatory COVID-19 Vaccination Guide August 9, 2021 – Secretary of Defense Message to the Force June 23, 2021 – USAFA Telework/Remote Work Policy May 19, 2021 – Department of the Air Force Guidance Memorandum for Telework Program April 29, 2021 – Guidance for Commanders’ Risk-Based Responses and Implementation October 20, 2020 – USAFA Return to Work (In-Person) and Communication Business Rules June 4, 2020 – Reasonable Accommodation Process and FAQs May 6, 2020 – USAFA Reopening Guide During COVID-19 Pandemic March 15, 2020 – Civilian Personnel Guidance: Questions and Answers the Novel Coronavirus Outbreak Visitors, Services & Events Updates For Graduation events, all guests should follow the guidance provided on the Graduation page. The public may visit daily from 5:30am to 10pm daily via the North or South Gate entrances. Masks are no longer required for Academy personnel or visitors due to current El Paso County COVID-19 community “medium” level & OUSD guidance. THOSE WHO PREFER TO WEAR A MASK ARE ENCOURAGED TO CONTINUE DOING SO. The Cadet Chapel remains closed for renovations; however, the Planetarium invites the public to join us Monday through Friday from noon to 2 p.m. during the Planetarium Open House. The public is also welcome to access the Honor Court, Visitor Center, Arnold Hall food court and bathrooms, and our hiking and biking trails. We have a self-guided tour available as well as a family friendly scavenger hunt and top Insta spots. To learn more, see the Visitor page. For the must up-to-date information on athletic events, visit our Athletics website. The Community Chapel has resumed worship services at the following times: Catholic Mass on Saturday and Sunday at 4pm and Protestant Service on Sunday at 9:30am. Due to limited space, all desiring to attend services must register online. Chaplains remain available for spiritual support. For questions, call 719-333-3300. The Exchange and Commissary are open to all eligible shoppers. For the latest on our fitness center, Child Development Center, Eisenhower golf course and more, visit our Force Support Squadron website. Travel restrictions Travel restrictions will be re-evaluated on a routine basis and all communications will be provided below. For the latest travel advisories and guidance, visit the MyPers website (CAC required). We strongly encourage all cadets, cadet candidates and permanent party to carefully plan any leisure domestic travel and consider the associated risks. While we understand that modifying or canceling travel may cause financial hardship, many companies are offering refunds based on travel disruptions. There is no mechanism for the Academy to refund travel expenses incurred from canceling or postponing leisure travel. Our travel restrictions are outlined in this official letter. For the latest DoD guidance, click here. The following is supplemental Academy guidance: April 9, 2021 – Updated USAFA Travel Guidance March 15, 2021 – SECDEF Memo – Update to Conditions-based Approach August 24, 2020 – USAFA Leave Policy for Travel Outside of 250 Miles June 30, 2020 – USAFA Updated Stop Movement Order – Local Area Intent, Radius, and Waivers Health Services If you are a United States Air Force Academy 10th Medical Group beneficiary and wish to be tested for coronavirus, call the Patient Appointing Service at 719-526-2273 to leave a message. A nurse will then return your call to coordinate an appointment. Do not show up to the clinic without calling ahead, as that puts other patients and healthcare workers at risk. For urgent issues, call 719-333-5413. To book a vaccination appointment via the 10th Medical Group, click here. Questions about vaccinations should be emailed to usaf.usafa.10-mdg.mbx.public-health@mail.mil. For any additional public health questions, visit the 10th Medical Group website or call 719-333-9443. January 5, 2022 – 10th Medical Group COVID-19 Guide to Care February 22, 2021 – USAFA Guidance on Use of Masks November 16, 2020 – 10th Medical Group COVID-19 Services Summary August 2, 2019 – USAFA Cadet Medical Information and FAQs Resources Centers for Disease Control and Prevention: Coronavirus Response Department of Defense: Coronavirus Response U.S. Air Force: Coronavirus Information and Resources U.S. Government: Coronavirus Response Colorado Department of Public Health: Coronavirus Facts World Health Organization: Coronavirus Guidance Older The Weekly Lead: Updating the AF Alma Mater, Learning from the Past, NCLS & more Share Newer Senior NCO beats odds, fulfills dream of teaching General Audience Vietnamese citizen takes part in DOD, Air Force Academy international... Continue Reading this article General Audience ‘Power of partnerships’: SECDEF gives commencement speech to AF Academy’s... Continue Reading this article General Audience, Space The Breakdown: Stats on the Air Force Academy’s class of... Continue Reading this article Graduates, Space ‘Two services, one Academy’: AF Academy, Space Force teamwork make... Continue Reading this article General Audience, Parents, Prep School 171 cadet-candidates graduate from Academy’s prep school Continue Reading this article Research, Space Innovation at the Academy: It’s like riding a bike Continue Reading this article General Audience, Graduates, Parents, Research Democratizing innovation: Cadet says Air Force Academy research is for... Continue Reading this article General Audience Cadets experience operational Air Force at Cannon ABF, NM Continue Reading this article ACADEMICS Departments Majors & Minors Library Academic Calendar Research Centers Faculty and Staff Directory CAMPUS Events Employment Emergency Weather Helping Agencies Apps COMMUNITY AF CyberWorx USAFA Band Force Support Wings of Blue VISIT Visitors Campus Map Facilities Cadet Chapel Planetarium Base Access Contact Us Social Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Flickr © 2022 United States Air Force Academy, All Rights Reserved The appearance of hyperlinks does not constitute endorsement by the Department of the Air Force or the information, products, or services contained therein. For other than authorized activities such as military exchanges and morale, welfare and recreation sites, the Department of the Air Force does not exercise any editorial control over the information you may find at these locations. Such links provided are consistent with the stated purpose of this DOD Web site.