Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Search Type Faculty & Staff Event Featured Profile News Opportunity Resource Student Research Project Videos Search Menu Info for… [Select an Audience] [Select An Audience] Admitted Graduate Students Current Graduate Students Employers Departments» Applied Physics and Applied Mathematics Biomedical Engineering Chemical Engineering Civil Engineering and Engineering Mechanics Computer Science Earth and Environmental Engineering Electrical Engineering Industrial Engineering and Operations Research Mechanical Engineering Admissions» Application Requirements Apply Admissions Events Campus Tours Frequently Asked Questions Graduate Funding Opportunities Tuition and Financial Aid Visit Us Brochures Graduate Student Life» Professional Development & Leadership Housing New Student Checklist Student Organizations Campus Resources Graduate Career Placement Graduation Class Day 2022 events for Graduate Students Fellowships & Opportunities The Graduate Student Affairs Team Graduate Students Resources Events & Activities Diversity and Community Engagement» Events Student Life Bridge to PhD Program Graduate Enrollment Services» Registration Requests Change of Status Change of Status Forms Learning Online Resources List» Columbia Engineering COVID-19 Emergency Fund for Doctoral Students Virtual Event Opportunities» Welcome New Students!» New Student Checklist Admitted Student Webinars Applying for a Visa Campus Resources Connect Engineering Welcome Day & Orientation Housing Information International Student Panel Frequently Asked Questions Program Kick-Off Schedule Apply Now News Bulletin Graduate Engineering Home > Graduate Student Life GSA Student Organizations Professional Development & Leadership Housing New Student Checklist Engineering Community Standards Student Organizations Campus Resources Graduate Career Placement Graduation Fellowships & Opportunities The Graduate Student Affairs Team Graduate Students Resources Leadership is highly encouraged at Columbia Engineering and many students find the opportunity to lead participating in the numerous student groups found at the school. Engineering Graduate Students Council MISSION STATEMENT The mission of the council is to: Serve graduate engineering students as a representative body to discuss their issues and concerns Foster interaction, friendship, and respect among students by sponsoring events of interest to them Maintain a dialogue with the Administration and Faculty of the School and other schools advocating students' interests when appropriate Communicate with other recognized student organizations of the University and the University Senate, and represent the graduate engineering student community in these organizations Appropriate the allotted funds to student organizations recognized by the Council wherein graduate engineering students participate Maintain communication with alumni, alumni clubs, and career services to help students in their professional development Disseminate information relevant to the interests of the graduate student community Executive Board 2022 Shiva Letchumanan President, EE - PhD Alex Nicole Parizeau Vice President, IEOR - MS Cheng Gong University Senator, BME - PhD EGSC Student Groups Diversity in Graduate Engineering The mission of Diversity in Graduate Engineering (DGE) is to provide academic and social support for historically underrepresented graduate students at the School of Engineering and Applied Sciences at Columbia University. Columbia Latin American Student Society (CLASS) ﻿The Columbia Latin American Students Society - CLASS - was originally founded in the Fall of 2014 with the purpose of bringing together all Graduate South American Students within the Engineering School of Columbia University. Columbia Engineering Energy Club (CEEC) ﻿CEEC aims to fulfill the responsibility of the Columbia community to help usher in an era where Sustainability is truly sustainable. Columbia Financial Engineering Club The Columbia FE Club is committed to provide a collaborative community where students interested in the financial market can have fun, grow their networks and develop professional skills. Data Science Institute Student Council (DSISC) ﻿A community for students who are interested in Data Science. Entrepreneurship, Leadership & Consulting Club (ELC) ﻿ELC is a student run initiative to promote the overall growth of students in entrepreneurship and consulting. Graduate Organization of Biomedical Engineers (GoBME) GoBME (Graduate Organization of Biomedical Engineers) is an organization of graduate students in the Biomedical Engineering Department. Its goals are to enhance the social and academic lives of students, and to advocate for graduate student needs in the department. GoBME hosts a variety of social events throughout the year, including happy hours, holiday potlucks, and beach trips. In addition, it organizes departmental teams for Columbia intramural athletics. The organization also serves as a link between graduate students and the faculty, communicating student concerns and ideas. Graduate Society of Women Engineers (GRADSWE) GradSWE is aimed at providing women in graduate engineering and applied sciences programming specific to their unique needs and interests. Their programming focus is on more advanced and specific recruitment, networking, and workshop events for women interested in pursuing careers beyond graduate school in either industry or academia. Graduate Electrical Engineering at Columbia (GEEC) GEEC is a group for MS and PhD Electrical Engineering students at Columbia. Hindu Yuva ﻿Columbia Chapter of Hindu Youth Values and Action. Korean-American Scientists & Engineers’ Association (KSEA) ﻿A community of Korean-American Scientists & Engineers. Mechanical Engineering Graduate Association (MEGA) The Mechanical Engineering Graduate Association (MEGA) is a student organization within Columbia's Department of Mechanical Engineering. MEGA grew out of a student initiative to create a greater sense of community among the graduate population. MEGA is the first department-level student government recognized by Engineering Graduate Student Council. qSTEM at Columbia ﻿Fostering a community of LGBTQ+ students pursuing STEM fields at Columbia. SPICMACAY ﻿Society for the Promotion of Indian Classical Music And Culture Amongst Youth. Engineering Graduate Student Groups MISSION STATEMENT The mission of the Graduate Student Groups Foster interaction, friendship, and respect among students by sponsoring events of interest to them Give an opportunity to the student body to become who they are. Maintain a dialogue with the Administration and Faculty of the School and other schools advocating students' interests when appropriate To build a network of like-minded individuals with a passion for learning. Maintain communication with alumni, alumni clubs, and career services to help students in their professional development Engineering Graduate Student Groups American Indian Science & Engineering Society AISES is sponsored by the EGSC located in the School of Engineering & Applied Science of Columbia University. A registered graduate student group, AISES is open to all interested students from affiliated Columbia schools. American Institute of Aeronautics and Astronatuics The Columbia University American Institute of Aeronautics and Astronautics (AIAA) branch is committed to participating in the annual AIAA DBF competition. American Institute of Chemical Engineers AIChE is a pre-professional organization for the community of Chemical Engineers at Columbia University. American Society of Mechanical Engineers ASME at Columbia University is a student chapter of the American Society of Mechanical Engineers. Association for Computing Machinery The Columbia University Association for Computing Machinery was founded in hopes of showing the many facets of computer science and informational technology. Columbia Data Science Society The Columbia Data Science Society (CDSS) is an interdisciplinary society that promotes data science across Columbia University and the New York City community. Columbia Science Review Members and writers of CSR strive to elevate knowledge and awareness of science and technology in the Columbia community through its bi-annual issues and online content, featuring informative scientific articles written by Columbia undergraduates. Engineers Without Borders Engineers Without Borders (EWB) USA supports community-driven development programs worldwide by collaborating with local partners to design and implement sustainable engineering projects, while creating transformative experiences and responsible leaders. Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers at Columbia University serves to promote an environment of professionalism among Electrical Engineering and Computer Engineering undergraduates, graduates, and faculty. National Society of Black Engineers The mission of NSBE to increase the number of culturally responsible Black engineers who excel academically, succeed professionally, and positively impact the community. Optical Society of America Columbia Optical Society of America (OSA) and the International Society for Optical Engineering (SPIE) student chapter is a student-run organization involved in enriching the development of students working in optics research. Society of Automotive Engineers Columbia University's Formula SAE team. They build racecars. Society of Hispanic Professional Engineers As one of Columbia's pre-professional organizations, the Society of Hispanic Professional Engineers work to promote professional development, leadership, and community outreach to allow students from all backgrounds to become the next generation of Hispanic leaders. Society of Industrial and Applied Mathematicians SIAM exists to ensure the strongest interactions between mathematics and other scientific and technological communities through membership activities, publication of journals and books, and conferences. Women in Computer Science WiCS aims to bring together women and men who support the advancement of women in computer science in academia and in industry. Engineering Graduate Student Council An important task of EGSC is to advocate for their fellow Graduate students. Contact the council with any issues relating to student advocacy or student group recognition Visit the EGSC website DISABILITY SERVICES The Columbia University Office of Disability Services serves students within all Columbia University schools and departments. The ODS works with each engineering student and Graduate Student Affairs to address specific needs. Monday–Friday, 9:00 a.m.–5:00 p.m. 212-854-2388 212-854-2378 (tdd) 212-854-3448 (fax) [email protected] REGISTER WITH DISABILITY SERVICES HAVE AN EMERGENCY? Call Public Safety at (212) 854-5555 Download Lion Safe App Public Safety Resources Office of Graduate Student Affairs 500 W. 120th Street New York, NY 10027 Admissions (212) 854-4688 | [email protected] Academics and Student Affairs (212) 854-6438 | [email protected] Apply Now Plan a Visit Directory Columbia Engineering Columbia University