Request Information For more information or to speak to an admissions counselor, please fill out this form: First Name Please enter your first name. Last Name Please enter your last name. Email Address Please enter a valid email address. Phone Number Please enter a valid phone number (numbers only). Program of Interest Select One...Online MBAMBA Direct Please select the program you're interested in. Learn More Please wait By providing my information and clicking the "Submit" button, I consent to be contacted via telephone (including a cell phone, if provided), email, and text message. Thank you! A program representative will be reaching out to you shortly. Which SMU Cox program is the best for you? How many years ago did you graduate from college? Select One...0-34-88+ Please select an option. Next Step How many years of full-time work experience do you have? Select One...0-34-88+ Please select an option. Back Next Step Current or past military service? Select One...YesNo Please select an option. Back See Results Thanks! Our MBA Direct program is an online, part-time MBA program designed for recent grads and early career professionals like you. Visit our MBA comparison page to learn more about the program or complete the Request Information form to speak to one of our Enrollment Advisors. Thanks! Our Online MBA program is an online, part-time MBA program designed for working professionals like you. Visit our MBA comparison page to learn more about the program or complete the Request Information form to speak to one of our Enrollment Advisors. Select a program: Online MBA Admissions MBA Direct Admissions Apply Now Menu Menu Online Programs Online MBA Enhance your career trajectory and gain a competitive edge in the job market while pursuing a world-class MBA at a part-time pace. MBA Direct Accelerate your career with the MBA Direct, an online, part-time MBA program designed for recent graduates and early career professionals with less than three years of experience. Compare SMU Cox Graduate Programs About The Cox Advantage Global Immersions Our Curriculum Our Faculty Student Stories Connect Events Meet With Us News SMU Cox Today Cox On Campus Admissions Application Information Tuition and Financial Aid Meet Our Team Class Profiles Key Dates Blog Request Info Master Real-World Problem-Solving with an MBA from SMU Cox Learn more about our programs First Name Please enter your first name. Last Name Please enter your last name. Email Address Please enter a valid email address. Phone Number Please enter a valid phone number (numbers only). Program of Interest Select One...Online MBAMBA Direct Please select the program you're interested in. Request Info Please wait By providing my information and clicking the "Submit" button, I consent to be contacted via telephone (including a cell phone, if provided), email, and text message. Thank you! A program representative will be reaching out to you shortly. Explore Our Online MBA Programs Online Master of Business Administration Stand out in your career with a world-class MBA created for experienced working professionals. Modeled on the nationally recognized residential program, the Cox Online MBA affords candidates the convenience of pursuing a competitive MBA without putting their careers on hold. The Cox Online MBA is a rigorous degree led by renowned faculty and centered on collaboration, analytics and experiential learning through live, online classes. Learn More MBA Direct for Early Career Professionals Designed for early career professionals and recent college graduates, Cox MBA Direct offers career-motivated students the opportunity to pursue an MBA without waiting to accrue the traditional work experience requirement. The MBA Direct blends the flexibility of part-time, online courses led by world-class faculty with access to on-campus resources, networking events, and more. Learn More Our Foundational Pillars Leadership At Cox, we know what it takes to become a well-rounded business leader. From managing cross-functional teams to thinking innovatively, you will hone your business leadership skills for the changing world of work. Analytics Data analytics now has a bigger impact on business than ever before. As an online MBA candidate you will learn data analytics skills and how to clearly communicate findings to colleagues and management, no matter the industry. Experiential Learning You will gain hands-on experience by examining the challenges of real companies and applying your own solutions. Our model of experiential learning provides the framework to keep building on the knowledge and skills you acquire over the course of the program. Learn More Why SMU Cox? Discover the Cox Advantage FacultyCurriculumExperiential LearningCareer Faculty Live, engaging online classes with world-class faculty With instruction from industry-savvy professors and international thought leaders, students will work in teams to develop skills in leadership, analytics, and complex problem-solving. In addition to being practitioners and industry leaders, the renowned SMU Cox faculty blend industry insights with academic research. Curriculum Cutting-edge curriculum built for today’s evolving business landscape Explore a variety of core business topics and develop industry-specific skills through the same distinguished curriculum taught to the Cox residential MBA students. Reinforce your business fundamentals through courses like Micro and Macro Economics and Financial Accounting, and hone your competitive advantage in the workplace as you master advanced courses like Data Analysis, Strategic Management, and Legal Environment of Business. Experiential Learning Experiential learning on and off campus Gain hands-on experience in a variety of global economic hubs through domestic and international immersion opportunities. Engage in stimulating case studies where pressing business problems faced by real companies are considered and solved though a variety of team-building competitions. Additionally, all Online MBA and MBA Direct candidates have full access to SMU on-campus facilities, clubs, events, and professional organizations. Career Supportive career success coaches & alumni network The SMU Cox team is invested in your success in the classroom and beyond. All online MBA candidates are paired with a career coach during their time in the program to support professional development and career growth. The Cox alumni network is made up of over 40,000 global business leaders. SMU Cox boasts robust networking opportunities and a broad alumni network. Learn more about us. Key Dates & Deadlines OMBAMBA Direct OMBA Fall 2022 Spring 2023 Early Review $2,500 scholarship April 1, 2022 August 12, 2022 Priority Submit I $2,000 scholarship May 6, 2022 September 16, 2022 Priority Submit II June 3, 2022 October 14, 2022 Final Submit Deadline July 15, 2022 November 11, 2022 Start of Classes August 22, 2022 January 9, 2023 MBA Direct Fall 2022 Spring 2023 Early Review $2,500 scholarship December 15, 2022 August 12, 2022 Priority Submit I $2,000 scholarship February 11, 2022 September 16, 2022 Priority Submit II April 22, 2022 October 14, 2022 Final Submit Deadline June 24, 2022 November 11, 2022 Start of Classes August 22, 2022 January 9, 2023 All applicants will be evaluated for merit-based scholarships. Upcoming Events Virtual Events May 24 Tuesday 6:00 PM CT Travel the World with an MBA - The Immersion Experience with Online MBA and MBA Direct Register Here June 14 Tuesday 6:00 PM CT The Online MBA and MBA Direct Program Information Session Register Here July 13 Wenesday 6:00 PM CT Online MBA and MBA Direct Current Students Meet & Greet Panel Discussion Register Here July 26 Tuesday 6:00 PM CT Career Management Center Overview and Alumni Panel - Online MBA and MBA Direct Register Here August 24 Wednesday 6:00 PM CT Student Life Overview - Online MBA and MBA Direct Register Here In-Person Events May 20 Friday 8:30 AM CT, Dallas, TX Working Professionals MBA Programs Coffee Chat Register Here May 26 Thursday 8:00 AM CT, Dallas, TX Working Professionals MBA Programs Coffee Chat Register Here Ready to invest in yourself and your career? Discover the program for you. Take Quiz Get to Know Our Students A Strong Network in Dallas “I chose the Online MBA at SMU Cox because of SMU's reputation, alumni network, and being a native of Dallas, I wanted to build my network close to home while also having connections internationally through SMU's global reach. I travel for work so the flexibility of the Online MBA format allowed me to attend class and complete schoolwork while traveling through airports and hotels.” - Andres Zorrilla Class of 2021 See Our Class Profile A Focus on Analytics and Leadership “It was important that I chose a program that was online first and foremost because as a working professional who traveled often I needed to be able to take my school with me on the go. However, it was also equally important that I didn't sacrifice the quality of my education. The Online MBA program at SMU Cox provided a convenient platform for learning without sacrificing the quality of education. I also chose this specific program because it’s grounded in the two key focus areas employers have identified as skill gaps in the workplace - analytics & leadership” - Morgan Holcomb Class of 2021 Discover More About COX Students To Strengthen my Business Acumen “I have been in business for quite some time, but I wanted a deeper understanding of the mechanics of what differentiates a successful business. The SMU Online MBA provided me the opportunity to flexibly achieve my goal of strengthening my business acumen and while still maintaining a work/life balance.” - Joel Moss Class of 2021 READ WHAT OUR STUDENTS AND ALUMNI ARE UP TO World Changers Shaped Here Online MBA MBA Direct About Key Dates Events Admissions FAQ Blog © 2022 Cox School of Business | Southern Methodist University PO Box 750333Dallas, Texas75275-0333 cox.mbaonline@smu.edu| 214-842-6486smu.edu Privacy Policy | Terms of Use