Skip to the main content United States Air Force Academy Go to home page image/svg+xml Page 1 Go to home page Link to home page Virtual Tour Radio Parents Graduates Visitors Prep School Graduation Newsletter Apply Today Menu Search the Site Academics A rigorous academic program that balances STEM with the arts and humanities. Academics Core Curriculum Departments Majors & Minors Library Academic Calendar Registrar Faculty and Staff Directory Academic Success Center Request a Transcript Investigator or Verifications Admissions News Research Learn more about cutting-edge research that supports the Air Force and our global society. Research Office of Research Research Centers Cadet Summer Research STEM Outreach Future Conflict Cadet Life Take a peek into the life of a United States Air Force Academy cadet. Cadet Life Dormitories & Dining Cadet Clubs Cadet Support Services Day in the Life Frequently Asked Questions Military With a focus on innovation and adaptation to the changing world of warfare, we’re setting higher expectations for what it means to serve. Military Basic Cadet Training Squadrons Airmanship Military Careers Wings of Blue Athletics About There’s no limit to what you will achieve here. Academics. Athletics. Military training. We deliver the future leaders of modern warfare. About Leadership Character Development History Awards Traditions Educational Innovation More Virtual Tour Radio Parents Graduates Visitors Prep School Graduation Newsletter Apply Today What Life is Like at the Academy's Altitude In This Section: Dormitories & Dining Clubs Cadet Support Services Day in the Life Frequently Asked Questions THE BEGINNING OF THE LONG BLUE LINE WHAT IS LIFE LIKE AS A CADET? Cadets at the U.S. Air Force Academy face a rigorous schedule of academics, athletics, military training, high expectations, and strict rules of conduct. Cadets are constantly challenged physically and mentally. Those who persevere will join the Lone Blue Line of more than 50,000+ graduates that were challenged before them. Within the Cadet Wing, the Commandant of Cadets and their staff oversee military training, extracurricular activities, clubs and various other aspects of life at the Academy. Here, it’s not about where you come from, but what you show up with. Regardless of the race, religion or background, we prioritize equal treatment and equal opportunity. To learn more about this unique environment, explore the Frequently Asked Questions. How to make a cadet bed? Rooms in our two dormitories, Vandenberg Hall and Sijan Hall, are approximately 13 feet wide and 18 feet long and contain a counter with a built-in sink, a large mirror and a medicine cabinet. There are typically two cadets per room with each having a twin-size bed, large closet, dresser and desk. To pass inspections, a cadet bed needs to be made perfectly. How to put together cadet service dress? Although cadets primarily wear airman battle uniforms (ABUs) to class and physical conditioning (PC) gear for physical education classes, service dress is commonly worn for more formal events. To properly represent the dignity and legacy of the Air Force, cadet service dress needs to be pristine. How to organize a cadet drawer? Upon arriving, cadets are issued laptops, uniforms, bedding and linens. To pass inspections, a cadet drawer needs to be properly prepared. ACADEMICS Departments Majors & Minors Library Academic Calendar Research Centers Faculty and Staff Directory CAMPUS Events Employment Emergency Weather Helping Agencies Apps COMMUNITY AF CyberWorx USAFA Band Force Support Wings of Blue VISIT Visitors Campus Map Facilities Cadet Chapel Planetarium Base Access Contact Us Social Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Flickr © 2022 United States Air Force Academy, All Rights Reserved The appearance of hyperlinks does not constitute endorsement by the Department of the Air Force or the information, products, or services contained therein. For other than authorized activities such as military exchanges and morale, welfare and recreation sites, the Department of the Air Force does not exercise any editorial control over the information you may find at these locations. Such links provided are consistent with the stated purpose of this DOD Web site.