Skip to main content Operating Status Face coverings are optional in offices, conference rooms, research labs, housing, and public spaces in buildings. Face coverings are still required in all teaching spaces, teaching labs, computer labs, buses, libraries, clinical facilities, and student-staff and student-faculty meetings spaces. More COVID-19 information Close Search Enter a Search Term Search Rutgers Search Search this site Search all Rutgers Search People Rutgers Logo New Brunswick Newark Camden RBHS/Health Info For: Prospective Students and Parents Current Students Faculty and Staff Alumni and Donors Partners Job Seekers News Rutgers Today Rutgers Magazine Events Giving Gcse block (invisible) Open Search Rutgers Logo About Rutgers About the University President Jonathan Holloway Serving New Jersey and the World An Economic Engine A Partner in Research and Innovation United Against COVID-19 Rutgers Excellence Rutgers, By the Numbers Rutgers Rankings Budget Facts Our Structure Governance and Leadership Office of the President Administrative Council Our Revolutionary Roots Rutgers Traditional Songs The Rutgers Experience Discover Rutgers Rutgers–New Brunswick Rutgers–Newark Rutgers–Camden Rutgers Biomedical and Health Sciences (RBHS) Show Your Rutgers Pride Rutgers Athletics Uniquely New Jersey Academics Academics Overview Undergraduate Academics Explore Undergraduate Programs Graduate and Professional Studies Explore Graduate & Professional Programs Top Graduate Programs Schools and Colleges Continuing Education Online Degree Programs Catalogs Libraries Faculty Excellence Global Learning Rutgers at Your Community College Student Support Research Research at Rutgers A Partner in Research and Innovation Health & Patient Care Advancing Treatment and Wellness Admissions & Tuition About Applying Path to Rutgers Tuition and Financial Aid Visits and Tours Getting Here Open Search Open Search Open Menu Close About Rutgers About the University President Jonathan Holloway Serving New Jersey and the World An Economic Engine A Partner in Research and Innovation United Against COVID-19 Rutgers Excellence Rutgers, By the Numbers Rutgers Rankings Budget Facts Our Structure Governance and Leadership Office of the President Administrative Council Our Revolutionary Roots Rutgers Traditional Songs The Rutgers Experience Discover Rutgers Rutgers–New Brunswick Rutgers–Newark Rutgers–Camden Rutgers Biomedical and Health Sciences (RBHS) Show Your Rutgers Pride Rutgers Athletics Uniquely New Jersey Academics Academics Overview Undergraduate Academics Explore Undergraduate Programs Graduate and Professional Studies Explore Graduate & Professional Programs Top Graduate Programs Schools and Colleges Continuing Education Online Degree Programs Catalogs Libraries Faculty Excellence Global Learning Rutgers at Your Community College Student Support Research Research at Rutgers A Partner in Research and Innovation Health & Patient Care Admissions & Tuition About Applying Path to Rutgers Tuition and Financial Aid Visits and Tours Getting Here Utility Mobile Info For: Prospective Students and Parents Current Students Faculty and Staff Alumni and Donors Partners Job Seekers News Rutgers Today Rutgers Magazine Events Giving New Brunswick Newark Camden RBHS/Health Admissions and Tuition Rutgers welcomes a student body that reflects the diversity of the world around us. People of all backgrounds with varying interests and goals meet here to explore a rigorous academic curriculum and expand their horizons. Some students come to Rutgers planning to change the world, and others seek to find their place in it. No matter what path you’re on, a Rutgers degree opens doors and lays the foundation for success. The Value of a Rutgers Degree Rutgers graduates report starting salaries that match or exceed the national average for college graduates. The earning potential of a Rutgers degree is as great as one from much higher cost options, without the burden of significant debt after graduation. Additionally, a degree from Rutgers is paired with a lifelong connection to one of the largest worldwide alumni networks. Our alumni include entrepreneurs and leaders at top companies and national nonprofits. 530,000+ Alumni network 74% Of entering undergraduates receive financial aid 2017-2018 data $58,370 Median starting salary, Class of 2019 Rutgers University–New Brunswick, 2,000 survey responses 83% Of survey respondents employed or in graduate school within six months of graduation Rutgers–New Brunswick, Class of 2019 Admissions at Rutgers We prepare students to be leaders in their professions and their communities. At Rutgers, you can explore your passion—or discover it. Explore the admissions pathways to Rutgers. Undergraduate Admissions Graduate and Professional Admissions Health Sciences Admissions Online Learning Continuing Education Schools and Colleges Pre-College Programs (Kindergarten–12th Grade) Veterans and Military-Affiliated Key Due Dates So, you've decided to apply. Be sure to meet these due dates for undergraduate applications: November 1: Early Action (Fall Semester) December 1: Regular Decision (Fall Semester) December 1: Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) February 1: Transfer (Fall Semester) October 1: First-Year and Transfer (Spring Semester) Take the First Step: Learn How to Apply For first-year undergraduate students and undergraduate transfer students, the first step is completing and submitting your application and required credentials. Use just one application to apply at any Rutgers location. Independent decisions will be made for each school to which you apply. Applicants will be notified online about admissions decisions. Undergraduate Students: Apply to Rutgers Tuition and Financial Aid The most important step in the financial aid process is completing the Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA). The FAFSA due date is December 1. Completing the FAFSA annually is how students apply to receive federal grants, loans, merit-based scholarships from Rutgers, and work-study offers. FAFSA applications also determine if New Jersey students are eligible for state aid. All students are encouraged to submit a FAFSA every year. Attending Rutgers, or any university, will have both direct and indirect costs, which typically include tuition, enrollment fees, housing expenses, costs for meal plans, books and class materials, transportation, and personal expenses. Tuition at Rutgers varies based on school affiliation, campus, and program. Other costs of attendance will vary based on housing circumstance, personal requirements, and other factors. Learn More about Rutgers Tuition and Financial Aid Scholarships Continuing and admitted students who submit the FAFSA are automatically considered for a wide range of scholarships awarded by the Rutgers Office of Financial Aid. First-year student awards are awarded independently by the New Brunswick, Newark, and Camden locations of Rutgers University. Awards may differ by school and university. All need-based university scholarship funds are awarded on the basis of financial need as determined by the information provided on the FAFSA. Even if you believe you will not qualify for need-based financial aid, it is still important to file the FAFSA, since some merit-based scholarships also have a need-based component. More Information about Scholarships Pathways to Rutgers If you’re thinking about attending Rutgers, know that there are many paths that lead here. Whether you’re taking the traditional route through high school, transferring in from another university or community college, or if you’re coming back to school after being out of the classroom for years, you’ll find a path that leads you to where you belong at Rutgers. Explore Pathways to Rutgers The Foundation for Success Our community comes together to support students and make the Rutgers experience rewarding. Scarlet Promise Grants Help Close the Aid Gap A support program for Rutgers undergraduates provides relief to thousands of students annually. Join the Beloved Community at Rutgers President Jonathan Holloway envisions a culture that emphasizes diversity, inclusion, and respect. Rutgers Alumni Share Stories of Resilience Amid a global pandemic, 19 alumni offer a view into the Rutgers state of mind. Visit Rutgers Go to a game, visit an on-campus museum, attend a play or dance performance, or check out our residence and dining halls. The best way to get a feel for life at Rutgers is to visit one of our locations. Learn More or Schedule a Visit or Tour Site Footer Rutgers University New Brunswick Newark Camden RBHS/Health Connect Campus Safety Contact Us Continuing Education Giving to Rutgers Graduate Admissions Undergraduate Admissions University Maps Universitywide Offices Work at Rutgers Find a Health Care Provider Rutgers Magazine University Events Academic Academic Calendars Course Catalogs University Libraries myRutgers Portal Notices April 27, 2022: Open Hearing on the University’s Tuition, Fees, and Housing and Dining Charges for 2022–2023 Commencement Information University Operating Status Accessibility Resources Budget Facts Consumer Information Disclosures Follow Us Subscribe to Rutgers News Rutgers is an equal access/equal opportunity institution. Individuals with disabilities are encouraged to direct suggestions, comments, or complaints concerning any accessibility issues with Rutgers websites to accessibility@rutgers.edu or complete the Report Accessibility Barrier / Provide Feedback form. Copyright ©2022, Rutgers, The State University of New Jersey. All rights reserved. Contact webmaster