Emergency Notification: COVID-19 Visit the Health Advisories website for the latest updates, FAQs, vaccination information, and to Report a Case. Skip to main content San José State University Menu Visit Campus Tours Maps Parking Silicon Valley Hammer Theatre SJSU Loves SJ Academics Colleges and Departments Majors and Programs Centers and Institutes Academic Calendar Classes King Library Admissions Tuition and Fees Housing Professional Education Parent and Family Programs Campus Life Health and Wellness Safety SJSU Cares Events Traditions Student Alumni Connection Research and Innovation Office of Research SJSU Research Foundation Student-Faculty Collaborations Become a Research Partner About Administration and Leadership Facts and Accomplishments Partnerships Transformation Defined SJSU on Facebook SJSU on Twitter SJSU on LinkedIn SJSU on Instagram SJSU on YouTube Athletics Alumni Association Giving to SJSU Canvas one.SJSU Search University Menu .Go toSJSU homepage. Visit Campus Tours Maps Parking Silicon Valley Hammer Theatre SJSU Loves SJ Academics Colleges and Departments Majors and Programs Centers and Institutes Academic Calendar Classes King Library Admissions Tuition and Fees Housing Professional Education Parents and Family Programs Campus Life Health and Wellness Safety SJSU Cares Events Traditions Student Alumni Connection Research and Innovation Office of Research SJSU Research Foundation Student-Faculty Collaborations Become a Research Partner Athletics About Administration and Leadership Facts and Accomplishments Partnerships Transformation Defined Home Student Outreach and Recruitment Campus Tours Student Outreach and Recruitment Student Outreach and Recruitment Menu Services Services Campus Tours Pre-Admissions Counseling Events Events Presentations Virtual Events College Fairs Visit SJSU Undergraduate Admissions Undergraduate Admissions Freshmen Admissions Transfer Admissions International Freshmen International Transfers Former Students Returning Spartan East Side Promise Program (SESP) Spartan East Side Promise Program (SESP) High School Students Current SJSU students ESUHSD Spartan Summer Program Community Partnerships Meet the SESP Team Resources Resources Steps to Admission Video Library Spartan Scoop Podcast About About Meet the SOAR Team Contact Us Learning Outcomes Assessment Services Campus Tours Pre-Admissions Counseling Events Presentations Virtual Events College Fairs Visit SJSU Undergraduate Admissions Freshmen Admissions Transfer Admissions International Freshmen International Transfers Former Students Returning Spartan East Side Promise Program (SESP) High School Students Current SJSU students ESUHSD Spartan Summer Program Community Partnerships Meet the SESP Team Resources Steps to Admission Video Library Spartan Scoop Podcast About Meet the SOAR Team Contact Us Learning Outcomes Assessment Campus Tours Register for a Tour We are now offering in-person campus tours for prospective students! Make sure to reserve your spot for an on-campus or Live Virtual Campus Tour today. We also offer many other tour options including a YouVisit Virtual Tour, Self-Guided Tours, and much more on our website. We’re excited to engage with you, answer live questions and help you explore SJSU! Tour Description Prospective Student In-Person Campus Tour Our Prospective Student In-Person Campus Tour includes an hour-long walking tour of campus. Our Tour will begin on time. Please plan to arrive 10 minutes early to check in and to ensure you find our location. Every tour end-times may vary depending on questions that are asked before, during, or after the tour. This tour has a capacity of up to 50 people. *To protect our guests and staff, wearing a mask for the duration of your tour is mandatory. Please remember to bring a mask with you before arriving on-campus at San Jose State University. Group Tours Group tours are for school groups and/or special programs of 10 or more people. All group tour options are fully booked for the rest of the semester. SJSU is a public institution so if you are planning a campus tour without a guide please feel free to see our Self Guided Tour. [pdf] Live Virtual Tour The SJSU Live Virtual Tour is intended for individuals or families interested in virtually learning about the campus. You are given a 45-minute Zoom presentation-style tour with a Student Ambassador. Please sign up online for your tour. You will select the tour time that best fits your schedule. We are excited to meet you and show you our wonderful campus! YouVisit Virtual Tour Take an interactive campus tour at your own pace! This option allows you to experience our campus through pre-recorded narration and vibrant images. This experience is available for both desktop and mobile devices. YouTube Tour Campus Tour Video: Watch along as Vanessa, a current SJSU student, walks you through the beautiful SJSU campus. Student Union Tour Student Union Tour Video: Sanreet, an SJSU Student Ambassador, will guide you through our Student Union and show you the services, study spots and favorite places that make the Student Union a special place to visit. Library Tour The Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. Library offers study spaces, research support, 3D printing, and student computing services. Take a video tour and learn about even more resources offered. Hammer Theater Tour Tour the Hammer Theatre and imagine the live performances by SJSU and national and international performing artists. Housing Tour Welcome to University Housing Services and learn more about our residence hall options with Kevina Brown, Community Relations Specialist. Spartan Recreation and Aquatics Center (SRAC) Tour The new Spartan Recreation and Aquatic Center (SRAC) is a state-of-the-art facility that houses everything you need to begin or maintain your fitness goals. This includes a 20,000 sq. ft. of cardio/strength equipment, three full-court gyms,1/8-mile indoor track, climbing wall, 50-meter lap pool and a recreation pool with sundeck. Self-Guided Tour [pdf] Welcome to San José State University! This Self-Guided walking tour will introduce you to some of our favorite campus locations. Access the printable version here [pdf]. Services Campus Tours Pre-Admissions Counseling Events Presentations Virtual Events College Fairs Visit SJSU Undergraduate Admissions Freshmen Admissions Transfer Admissions International Freshmen International Transfers Former Students Returning Spartan East Side Promise Program (SESP) High School Students Current SJSU students ESUHSD Spartan Summer Program Community Partnerships Meet the SESP Team Resources Steps to Admission Video Library Spartan Scoop Podcast About Meet the SOAR Team Contact Us Learning Outcomes Assessment Student Outreach and Recruitment Contact Us Phone: 408-924-2564 Email: outreach@sjsu.edu Follow us on Instagram! @futurespartans @sjsu_sesp Visit Office Student Outreach and Recruitment San José State University One Washington Square San Jose, CA 95192-0014 In-Person Drop in Counseling Hours Monday-Friday 9:00 am - 4:30 pm Virtual Front Desk Hours Monday: 1:00 pm - 4:30 pm Tuesday: 9:00 am - 12:00 pm, 1:00 pm - 4:30 pm Wednesday: 9:00 am - 12:00 pm, 1:00 pm - 4:30pm Thursday: 9:00 am - 12:00 pm,1:00 pm - 4:30 pm Friday: 1:00 pm - 4:30 pm Footer San José State University SJSU on Facebook SJSU on Twitter SJSU on LinkedIn SJSU on Instagram SJSU on YouTube One Washington Square San José, CA 95192 408-924-1000 Accessibility Title IX Diversity Land Acknowledgement Privacy Colleges Business Education Engineering Graduate Studies Health and Human Sciences Humanities and the Arts Professional and Global Education Science Social Science Resources A-Z Index Annual Security Report [pdf] Bookstore Calendars Careers and Jobs Catalog Current Students Emergency Food & Housing King Library Parking and Maps Contact Us Contact Form Directory Doing Business with SJSU Emergency Info Report a Web Problem Report a Title IX Complaint Last Updated May 9, 2022