Skip to main content Temple University Explore Temple’s Schools and Colleges Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Support Temple Temple University Search Site Search Full Menu Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees President History & Traditions Temple Health News & Media Offices Public Information Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Development Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Libraries Accomplished Teaching MSEd You are here Home Academics Degrees and Programs Accomplished Teaching MSEd Apply Visit Request More Info Accomplished Teaching MSEd Admissions Information Careers & Opportunities Our Faculty Required Courses Research & Facilities Scholarships & Financial Aid Accomplished Teaching MSEd The Master of Science in Education program in Accomplished Teaching in Temple's College of Education and Human Development enables working teachers—both new and established practitioners—to develop new knowledge and to analyze and reflect on their own teaching practices in order to advance their careers. Core courses with universal teaching applications include topics such as computer-based instruction and cultural diversity. In choosing from a broad range of electives, you’ll have the flexibility to tailor your education to best serve your school and community. Choose to focus on enhancing your specialization in education by completing coursework in English language teaching, instructional learning technology and special education, among other topics. You’ll complete your coursework on a part- or full-time basis on Temple’s Main Campus in Philadelphia. Some courses are offered at off-site locations, and certain electives can be completed in an online format. Related Graduate Degrees Career and Technical Education MSEd Education PhD Special Education MEd Teaching English to Speakers of Other Languages MSEd Related Graduate Certificates Autism Endorsement English as a Second Language Instructional Learning Technology Tuition & Fees In keeping with Temple’s commitment to access and affordability, this Master of Science in Education offers a competitive level of tuition with multiple opportunities for financial support. Tuition rates are set annually by the university and are affected by multiple factors, including program degree level (undergraduate or graduate), course load (full- or part-time), in-state or out-of-state residency, and more. These tuition costs apply to the 2021–2022 academic year. Pennsylvania resident: $966.00 per credit Out-of-state: $1,329.00 per credit Learn more about our tuition and fees. Student Clubs & Organizations Find peer support and leadership opportunities while tackling the challenges of your program. You'll also find opportunities to give back to the community, either locally or globally. Students can join the Temple University Graduate Students Association, a student employee union that maintains positive working lives and conditions for graduate student assistants. Temple Student Pennsylvania State Education Association, which hosts events to share effective classroom techniques and other resources for developing teachers. Search for additional College of Education and Human Development and education-related student organizations. Program Contact Tim Fukawa-Connelly, associate professor, is program coordinator of the Accomplished Teaching MSEd. Phone: 215-204-6206 Email: tim.fc@temple.edu Our Advisors Individual faculty advisors will guide you in navigating the curriculum and selecting the appropriate coursework to achieve your academic and professional goals. A graduate academic advisor will also be available to help you with scheduling, policies and procedures to ensure your smooth passage through the program. Questions For more information about this program, the College of Education and Human Development, how to apply for admission, and your application status, contact Enrollment Management. Enrollment Management Ritter Annex 150 1301 Cecil B. Moore Ave. Philadelphia, PA 19122 Phone: 215-204-8011 Email: educate@temple.edu ED-ATCH-MSED Additional Program Information Visit College Site View Program Details Go back to AcademicsMore in Accomplished Teaching MSEd Admissions Information Careers & Opportunities Our Faculty Required Courses Research & Facilities Scholarships & Financial Aid Apply Visit Request More Info Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Calendar Policies Social Media TUportal TUmail Accessibility Careers at Temple Safety & Emergency Information Ethics & Compliance Privacy Statement Professional Licensure Disclosures Follow Temple University Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community. Apply Visit Request More Info