Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Department of Communication & Film About Graduate Undergraduate People Alumni Events Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact Undergraduate Communication Studies Major in Communication Studies Online Film & Video Production Communication Minor Current Courses Advising Internships Lambda Pi Eta Honors Program Accelerated BA/MA Take Action Get Started in the COMM Major Apply to COMM Graduate Programs Contact Us Follow Us Online InstagramFacebooktwitterLinkedIn Home Communication & Film Undergraduate Internships COMM Internships Communication majors are encouraged to enhance their educational experience and to develop their professional skills through internships with government agencies, non-profit organizations, private businesses, film companies, and media firms. Communication majors may earn COMM credit for their internship experience, by registering for COMM 4802. How Do I Find An Internship? COMM Internship Directors Communication Studies: Dr. M. Gray Matthews Film & Video Production: Prof. Roxie Gee Requirements to register for COMM 4802 Junior or Senior standing (i.e., at least 60 credit hours completed before the beginning of the internship) At least 15 COMM hours completed (or permission of Faculty Director) At least a 3.0 GPA in COMM (or permission of Faculty Director) Film & Video Production internships: completed COMM 3823 and COMM 3824 Online application completed by the last day of classes the semester prior to the beginning of the internship. Letter or email from the internship supervisor confirming that the student has obtained the internship and the general scope of the internship. The period of the internship should correspond with an academic semester (Fall, Spring, or Summer). Each credit hour of COMM 4802 is equivalent to 50 work hours (3 credit hours equals 150 work hours, or 10 hours per week over the course of a 15-week semester). Requirements to complete COMM 4802 Unless otherwise instructed by your faculty director, these forms should be uploaded to eCourseware: Time logs specifying hours worked and tasks completed, signed by both the student and the internship supervisor, submitted both at mid-term and at the end-of-semester. Download pdf form Student self-assessment, signed by both the student and the internship supervisor, submitted at mid-term. Download pdf form Samples of work completed (as appropriate) submitted at mid-term and end of semester. Final student self-evaluation, submitted at end-of-semester. Download pdf form Final supervisor evaluation, submitted at end-of-semester (emailed directly to faculty director). Download pdf form Grade assignment COMM 4802 is graded as S (Satisfactory) or U (Unsatisfactory). The grade will be based on the faculty director's evaluation of the time logs, samples of work performed, the student's self-evaluations, and the supervisor's final evaluation. Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 3/18/22 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.