Kansas State University search Search K-State web, people, directories Browse A-Z Sign in Canvas OrgCentral Navigate MyLibrary KSIS HRIS Webmail Status of ITS resources Sign in to Connect K-State home »One Stop »Health and Safety Student Guide to Help and Resources: One Stop Shop Home Academics Majors and Programs Academic Support See all of Academics Paying for College Financial Resources Jobs See all of Paying for College Student Life Get Involved Living Options Sports and Recreation Arts and Culture Diversity and Multicultural Student Affairs K-State Student Union Events Graduation and Beyond See all of Student Life Health and Safety Health Safety See all of Health and Safety Technology Designated Access See all of Technology Health and Safety home Health Safety Vice President for Student Life Kansas State University 122 Anderson Hall Manhattan, KS 66506-0102 785-532-6237 vpsl@k-state.edu Health and Safety At K-State, students come first — and that starts with our commitment to your health and safety. The university's comprehensive health and safety website details campus safety reports, frequently asked questions, resources, and more. In 2021, K-State was named No. 3 for best quality of life and best health services by the Princenton Review's "The Best 386 Colleges". We are always striving to make good on our commitment to your health and safety. Health With a student health center located on the Manhattan campus, counseling services offices on both the Manhattan and Salina campuses, and numerous online resources, you can find the health support services you need. Safety Are you looking to sign up for emergency alerts/notifications? Want to download the LiveSafe mobile app? Need to report something of concern to you? Find out all of the safety resources available to you. Find help Create your free You@KSU account today by clicking the button above and find tips and tools for everything from your mental and physical health, to friendships and finding balance. It's all here at Kansas State Univeristy. Contact us Emergency Statements and disclosures Accessibility Kansas State University Manhattan, KS 66506 785-532-6011 © Kansas State University Updated: 11/29/21