Skip to main content Latest COVID information W crest logo for the university Menu menu close Search People and Pages search closeOpen search This search returns up to five matches as you type. The matches can be found immediately after the search input field.Search People and Pages Search Main Menu Academics Admissions & Aid Student Life Research Athletics About UW Utility Menu MyUW open dropdown menu close dropdown menu MyUW home Email/calendar Canvas Box Google Apps Libraries Map News Visit Apply Jobs Give Visit Feel the magic of UW–Madison. Bustling pedestrian malls lead to serene lakeside views, and modern facilities blend in comfortably with historic landmarks. The city’s vibrant arts scene attracts the world’s top talent, and changing seasons regularly afford unexpected experiences. Come see for yourself. In-person campus tours Virtual campus tours Information sessions Explore the best of campus and the city from home Discover campus beauty See Madison, WI, in every season Travel and planning resources Campus and Visitor Relations Customized and specialty tours Parking, map and directions Downtown Madison Madison hotels Madison restaurants Experience the Badger life for yourself Sports and recreation Put on your red and white and cheer on our varsity teams — or lace up your cleats and join a recreational squad. Athletics, recreation, and wellness Arts, everywhere Student performances, national artists in residence, globetrotting exhibits: inspiration abounds on campus. Find upcoming arts events A destination campus There’s always a corner of campus yet to explore: national historic landmarks, 1,200 acres of the Arboretum, and so much more. A guide to popular campus spots Are you searching for something specific? This search returns up to five matches as you type. The matches can be found immediately after the search input field.Search People and Pages Search Footer links Popular Academic calendar Campus map Directory search Facts and figures Jobs Majors and certificates Tuition and fees Resources Alumni Business and industry Faculty and staff International Parents Researchers Students Quick links Accessibility Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Governance Policies Safety Support UW Title IX Footer Crest envelope Contact us facebook twitter youtube linkedin instagram ©2022 Board of Regents of the University of Wisconsin System | Privacy notice | Feedback, questions or accessibility issues: web@umark.wisc.edu