Skip to main content Skip to primary site menu Google Tag Manager Search form Search Explore Brown University Search Global Navigation Learn More About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life Find A to Z Index People Directory Information for Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Top Destinations Global Brown Watson Institute Graduate School Alpert Medical School School of Public Health School of Engineering Department of Sociology Home News People Programs Courses Undergraduate Programs A.B. in Sociology Sc.B. in Social Analysis and Research Organizational Studies Track (S/OS) Honors Transfer Credit Department Undergraduate Group (DUG) Ph.D. Program Master's in Social Analysis and Research 5th-Year MSAR Apply Now On The Market Colloquia Diversity & Inclusion Apply Now Site Navigation Home News People Faculty Office and TA Lab Hours Ph.D. Students Master's Students Staff Programs Courses Undergraduate Programs A.B. in Sociology Sc.B. in Social Analysis and Research Organizational Studies Track (S/OS) Honors Transfer Credit Department Undergraduate Group (DUG) Ph.D. Program Funding Ph.D. Year by Year Awards Student Resources Student Publications Student Placements Master's in Social Analysis and Research Student Placements 5th-Year MSAR Apply Now On The Market Colloquia Diversity & Inclusion Apply Now Applications FAQ Sc.B. in Social Analysis and Research & Concentration Requirements Director of Undergraduate Studies: Carrie Spearin Concentration Advisors: Andrew Schrank The Sc.B. concentration in Social Analysis and Research, a STEM-designated concentration, provides both a conceptual and a working knowledge of the techniques for data collection and analysis used for social research in academic and non-academic environments. The centerpiece of the concentration is a rigorous and comprehensive collection of courses: (1) that develop an understanding of the principles underlying the processes of data collection and analysis; and (2) that train students in the application of advanced statistical techniques for data description and analysis. The concepts and skills learned in these courses are reinforced through engagement in applied research with Sociology faculty and/or internships with local organizations in the for profit and not-for-profit sectors. Through this concentration, students develop the analytical skills that prepare them for a wide range of careers after graduation, including program administration and evaluation in government and civil society. Our graduates also continue their formal education in a variety of post-graduate areas, including health sciences, statistics, and sociology. Concentration Requirements Undergraduate Programs A.B. in Sociology Sc.B. in Social Analysis and Research Organizational Studies Track (S/OS) Honors Transfer Credit Department Undergraduate Group (DUG) Department of Sociology Department of Sociology Brown University Box 1916 Maxcy Hall, 108 George Street Inner Campus – Lower Green Providence, RI 02912 Phone: 401-863-2367 Fax: 401-863-3213 Email [email protected] Twitter Twitter Facebook Facebook Brown University Giving to Brown Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA 401-863-1000 Contact Us Maps Directions Career Opportunities Campus Safety Accessibility All Social Media © 2022 Brown University | Back to top