Skip to main content Skip to main navigation Coronavirus (COVID-19) Information Menu University Updates About Baylor Dashboard COVID-19 Contact Isolation and Quarantine Procedures - 2022 Faculty & Staff Resources How to Report a COVID-19 Positive Case COVID-19 Testing Information Vaccine Information Hybrid or Remote Work Resources Learning Together External Resources FAQs Testing, Face Coverings Vaccination Isolation/Quarantine Procedures Student Health, Pastoral Care and Counseling Services Operations & Facilities Interim COVID-19 Policies/University Requirements General Information About COVID-19 COVID-19 Information Sources Outside of Waco Travel Contacts COVID-19 Testing Vaccination Information Resources Primary Resources For Students For Faculty and Staff Travel Advisories and Resources From the CDC COVID-19 Contact Current Situation Baylor University has concluded the spring 2022 semester. Minimester is underway from May 16-June 2. Summer session I runs June 3-July 8. NEW: The MyLabsDirect COVID-19 testing site at the North Village Community Center is closed, effective Monday, May 16, 2022. More info HERE. Symptomatic testing: Students who are symptomatic should use the Health Portal to schedule a testing appointment at the Health Center. Faculty & staff should contact their personal healthcare provider for testing or use a home test. How to obtain home tests HERE. NEW: COVID vaccinations/boosters will move from the NVCC to the Health Center, beginning May 19-20, 2022. Appointments available on Thursdays & Fridays. More info HERE. Masks: Optional in academic classrooms and labs, other than when requested in private offices, while in the Health Center and when following isolation or quarantine protocols. Weekly COVID-19 Testing Vaccination Information University Updates Isolation & Quarantine Learning Together Keep Working FAQS COVID-19 Resources Report COVID-19 Non Compliance Updates Mar 3 2022 Presidential Perspective - March 3, 2022 It was such a joy last week to experience the musical and dance talents of the more than 1,500 students who participated in Sing this spring. Feb 24 2022 Presidential Perspective - February 24, 2022 One outcome of the COVID-19 pandemic is that we have the ability to temporarily pivot to remote instruction and operations when winter weather conditions threaten. Gone are the days of waking up at 5 a.m. to see if it will be an ice or snow day. Of course, I fondly remember those snow days from when I was in college! Feb 17 2022 Presidential Perspective - February 17, 2022 Today we are announcing the rescission of the University's facemask policy for classrooms and labs when used in academic settings. In other words, facemasks will be optional at Baylor – other than when requested in private offices – effective this Monday, Feb. 21. Feb 17 2022 Updated COVID-19 facemask policy As many of you are probably aware, many states, colleges and universities, and other organizations across the country are beginning to loosen their facemask requirements in response to the declining prevalence of COVID-19. Feb 10 2022 Presidential Perspective - February 10, 2022 What an exciting time for Baylor as we’ve surpassed the $1.1 billion fundraising goal of the Give Light campaign! Feb 3 2022 Presidential Perspective - February 3, 2022 My prayers have been with everyone as the winter weather has impacted our local community as well as Texans statewide. Feb 2 2022 ***UPDATE: Baylor to Resume Normal Hours, Operations on Saturday, Feb. 5, 2022*** Baylor University Waco Campus to Shift to Remote Instruction, Telework Thursday-Friday, Feb. 3-4, 2022 WACO, Texas (Feb. 2, 2022) - ***UPDATED 5 p.m. Friday, Feb. 4, 2022: Baylor University will resume normal hours and operations on Saturday, Feb. 5, 2022.*** The National Weather Service has placed Central and North Texas under a Winter Storm Warning. With the high potential for hazardous icy conditions as a strong arctic front moves through Central Texas, Baylor University will hold classes via remote instruction and staff will telework on Thursday and Friday, Feb. 3-4. Jan 31 2022 Important updates to COVID-19 policies/protocols In recognition of the improving COVID-19 environment and the campus community’s continued effective management of the virus, today we are announcing several updates to Baylor University’s COVID-19 interim policies and protocols. Jan 27 2022 Presidential Perspective - January 27, 2022 The "Spring Sprint" is definitely underway, and it's hard to believe Feb. 1 is this Tuesday. Read More Updates General Information Colleges, Schools, Libraries & Research Admissions Administration Gateways For... About Baylor Anonymous Reporting Athletics Ask Baylor Bookstore Calendar Campus Map Directory Give Light Give to Baylor Illuminate Mental Health Resources News Pro Futuris Report It Search Social Media Title IX Baylor Libraries College of Arts & Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work George W. Truett Theological Seminary Graduate School Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Louise Herrington School of Nursing Research at Baylor University Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Engineering & Computer Science School of Music More Academics Undergraduate Admissions goBAYLOR Graduate Admissions Baylor Law School Admissions Social Work Graduate Programs George W. Truett Theological Seminary Admissions Online Graduate Professional Education Virtual Tour Visit Campus Annual Fire Safety and Security Notice Athletics Human Resources Marketing and Communications Office of General Counsel Office of the President Office of the Provost Operations, Finance & Administration Senior Administration Student Life University Advancement Baylor Alumni Faculty & Staff Online Graduate Professional Education Parents Prospective Faculty & Staff Prospective Students Students Copyright © Baylor® University. All rights reserved. Legal Disclosures. Baylor University • Waco, Texas 76798 • 1-800-229-5678 University Updates About Baylor Dashboard COVID-19 Contact Isolation and Quarantine Procedures - 2022 Faculty & Staff Resources How to Report a COVID-19 Positive Case COVID-19 Testing Information Vaccine Information Hybrid or Remote Work Resources Learning Together External Resources FAQs Testing, Face Coverings Vaccination Isolation/Quarantine Procedures Student Health, Pastoral Care and Counseling Services Operations & Facilities Interim COVID-19 Policies/University Requirements General Information About COVID-19 COVID-19 Information Sources Outside of Waco Travel Contacts COVID-19 Testing Vaccination Information Resources Primary Resources For Students For Faculty and Staff Travel Advisories and Resources From the CDC COVID-19 Contact