Skip to main content University of Washington, College of Arts and Sciences Menu Apply Contact Give UW Home Search About Diversity, Equity, Inclusion & Access Leadership Dean's Office Directory Administrative Gateway Academics What Should I Study? Arts Digital Arts & Experimental Media Fact Sheet Art + Art History + Design Fact Sheet Drama Fact Sheet Music Fact Sheet Humanities Classics Fact Sheet French & Italian Studies Fact Sheet Cinema and Media Studies Fact Sheet Asian Languages & Literature Fact Sheet Comparative History of Ideas Fact Sheet Dance Fact Sheet English English German Studies Fact Sheet Linguistics Fact Sheet Near Eastern Languages & Civilization Fact Sheet Scandinavian Studies Fact Sheet Slavic Languages & Literatures Fact Sheet Spanish and Portuguese Studies Fact Sheet Natural Sciences Biology Fact Sheet Chemistry Fact Sheet Applied Mathematics Fact Sheet Astronomy Fact Sheet Mathematics Fact Sheet Physics Fact Sheet Psychology Fact Sheet Speech & Hearing Sciences Fact Sheet Statistics Fact Sheet Social Sciences Communication Fact Sheet Gender, Women & Sexuality Studies Fact Sheet History Fact Sheet American Ethnic Studies Fact Sheet Economics Fact Sheet Geography Fact Sheet American Indian Studies Fact Sheet Anthropology Fact Sheet Integrated Social Sciences Law, Societies & Justice Fact Sheet Philosophy Fact Sheet Political Science Fact Sheet Sociology Fact Sheet The Jackson School of International Studies Fact Sheet All Departments & Centers Declaring a Major What Careers Can I Pursue? Student Experience Living and Learning in Seattle Diversity & Inclusion on Campus UW Community Student Resources Parent & Family Resources ArtsUW Research Research Projects and Initiatives Undergraduate Research Opportunities News & Events All Stories Perspectives Newsletter Subscribe Perspectives Archive/Search Events Alumni Giving Alumni Stories UW Alumni Association Search Submit Search Apply Contact Give Sign Up for the Newsletter Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube LinkedIn Search Submit Search News & Events Home News & Events Back to Home News & Events All Stories Perspectives Newsletter Events Arts & Sciences people and programs are often featured in local, national, and campus media. Learn about groundbreaking research and other accomplishments, and hear from faculty with expertise on complex societal issues. Be sure to check our event listings for upcoming performances, lectures, and more. Featured Unmasking the Activism of Community Theater Drama professor Valerie Curtis-Newton has been stirring up "good trouble" and unmasking uncomfortable truths for decades. She will present the University Faculty Lecture in May. Rome the Roller Coaster Communication major Jean Wong shares the ups and downs of her recent UW study abroad experience in Rome. In Ukraine, Language is Political Ukraine's national language is Ukrainian, but many citizens grew up speaking Russian. Does that matter? Professor Laada Bilaniuk studies language and Ukrainian identity. Perspectives Newsletter Perspectives is a monthly online newsletter that keeps you informed about the accomplishments and latest news from the College of Arts & Sciences community. Learn about unusual courses, student projects, faculty research, alumni careers, and more. Subscribe - Perspectives Newsletter View the Latest Issue - Perspectives Newsletter Stay Connected Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Most Recent Connecting with Obama Arts & Sciences alum Simon Tran says meeting with Barack Obama to discuss careers in public service was "easily the most surreal experience I've ever had." 05/26/2022 Andrea Woody Named Divisional Dean of the Social Sciences Woody, professor of philosophy, currently serves as chair of the Department of Philosophy. 05/26/2022 Gabriel Solis Named Divisional Dean of the Arts Solis comes from the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign and will join the UW on July 1. 05/10/2022 View All Stories UW Arts Events ArtsUW is a way for students, faculty, and the greater community to find knowledge and meaning through artistic experience. Public Opening: ektor garcia & Donna Huanca 04/01/2022 Event Information About Academics Student Experience Research News & Events Alumni Apply Contact Give Sign Up for the Newsletter Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube 50 Communications #353765 University of Washington Seattle, WA 98195-3765 (206) 543-5340 © 2022 University of Washington College of Arts & Sciences Privacy Terms of Use Staff Login