Accessibility Options: Skip to Content Skip to Search Skip to footer Office of Disability Services Request Assistance 305-284-2374 Display: Default High Contrast University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Apply About UM Schools School of Architecture College of Arts & Sciences Miami Herbert Business School School of Communication School of Education & Human Development College of Engineering School of Law Rosenstiel School of Marine & Atmospheric Science Miller School of Medicine Frost School of Music School of Nursing & Health Studies The Graduate School Division of Continuing & International Education Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Search Tools People Search Class Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Search UM (Mobile) Apply Apply About UM Schools Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Academics Admissions Student Life Research UHealth Athletics Tools Popular Links Coronavirus Information News@TheU People Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement Home Search Site OVPRS Websites Research and Scholarship Home Research Development and Evaluation Research Capacity and Operations Research Administration Regulatory Affairs and Assessment Research Navigator Research Lifecycle 1. Get Started 2. Identify Funding Opportunities 3. Write Proposal 4. Submit Proposal 5. Conduct Research 6. Commercialize Work Learners Key Partners About Vice Provost for Research and Scholarship Leadership Administrative Areas Centers and Institutes Core Facilities and Shared Resources Sign up for a Listserv Events Calendar Contact Us Research Lifecycle Learners Key Partners About Site Feedback Search Public Voices Fellowship Arts & Humanities Fellowship Grant Writing Support Provost's Awards Research Lifecycle 1. Get Started 2. Identify Funding Opportunities 3. Write Proposal 4. Submit Proposal 5. Conduct Research 6. Commercialize Work Learners Key Partners About Vice Provost for Research and Scholarship Leadership Administrative Areas Centers and Institutes Core Facilities and Shared Resources Sign up for a Listserv Events Calendar Contact Us Site Feedback OVPRS Websites Research and Scholarship Home Research Development and Evaluation Research Capacity and Operations Research Administration Regulatory Affairs and Assessment Research Navigator Public Voices Fellowship Arts & Humanities Fellowship Grant Writing Support Provost's Awards $sLabel Home About Research and Scholarship Administrative Areas Research Development and Evaluation Grant Writing Support AAA Public Voices Fellowship Arts & Humanities Fellowship Grant Writing Support Provost's Awards Grant Writing Support Hanover Grant Proposal Services The Office of the Vice Provost for Research, the Miller School of Medicine Office of the Executive Dean for Research, and the Miami Clinical and Translational Science Institute has partnered with Hanover Research to provide grant support services to UM faculty. Hanover has significant experience with complex and individual grants being submitted to all types of funding agencies. The goal of this partnership is to increase the quality of grant proposals, competitiveness for large grants, and funding success rates. To learn more about accessing these services, click here. Consultations for Faculty Miami CTSI sponsors consultation services for University of Miami faculty researchers with new or previous grant submissions (R, K, and F-style grants). Faculty can receive personalized mentoring on specific aims, summary statements, and approach sections, among other areas. To learn more about these services, click here. UM Writing Center UM’s Writing Center has consultants available to assist post-doctoral fellows, graduate students, staff as well as faculty on a range of research writing support services, including grant writing. To learn more about these services click here. University of Miami Coral Gables, FL 33124 305-284-2211 University of Miami Coral Gables, FL 33124 305-284-2211 305-284-2211 Resources About UM myUM CaneLink Academic Calendar Blackboard UM Network Alumni Association Medical Center Hurricane Sports Employment Opportunities Visit Campus Map Parking & Transportation Connect social-facebook social-twitter social-youtube social-instagram Copyright: 2022 University of Miami. All Rights Reserved. Emergency Information Privacy Statement & Legal Notices