Skip to main content Skip to site menu Skip to Brown menu Skip to site search Information For: Current Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Brown University Enter search keyword About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life A to Z Index People Directory Counseling and Psychological Services (CAPS) Outreach & Community Building Counseling and Psychological Services (CAPS) Outreach & Community Building CAPS outreach programming and community building extends the caring and expertise of CAPS staff to our broader campus community. We strive to meet the needs of our diverse campus community through a social justice and developmental outreach approach that works to eliminate disparities in help-seeking and provides programming and consultation that supports the mental health of Brown students. CAPS has a set of presentations that are geared toward the current needs of the Brown student community, and we are also able to create custom programs. Current CAPS Programs & Focus Areas: Diversity and Inclusion oriented programming (i.e., CAPS staff interacting with students outside of the CAPS office with goal of engaging students on-campus who may not feel safe or comfortable coming to CAPS for services). Educational programming (workshops or trainings such as: suicide prevention, test anxiety, enhancing wellness, how to deal with stress). Consultation (how to support a student in distress) Supporting students who are in a position to help other students on-campus (RPLs, Meiklejohns, Active Minds) We cannot meet every request due to our clinical focus, but we will make every effort to work with you. Requests that are received at least three weeks prior to the planned outreach event are most likely to be filled. If you are interested in requesting a program from us, or having us be a part of a program you are running, please send an email to [email protected] and we will respond soon. Welcome & Information Immediate and After Hours Care Psychiatry Outreach & Community Building B.E.A.R. Project Recent Outreach Training Program Finding Care Off Campus Additional Resources Print this Page Share this Page Counseling & Psych Services Brown University Box 1960 450 Brook St Providence, RI 02906 Phone 401-863-3476 Fax 401-863-3657 Brown University Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-1000 Maps & Directions / Contact Us / Accessibility © 2022 Brown University Connect: [email protected] Facebook Twitter YouTube iTunes U LinkedIn SnapChat Resources A to Z Index Career Opportunities Make a Gift People Directory What's New? Current Groups Help a Distressed Student Self-Help Library