Skip to main content UCF News | Stories of Impact + Innovation | Orlando, FL Tuesday, May 31, 2022 88ºF Mostly cloudy Sections × UCF News | Stories of Impact + Innovation | Orlando, FL Arts Business Colleges Community Health Opinions Science & Tech Sports Student Life Tuesday, May 31, 2022 88ºF Mostly cloudy College of Nursing News UCF Nursing Student, Leukemia Survivor Inspired by Nurse Alumna who Treated Him Max Jones beat the odds and is now pursuing a career path in pediatric oncology thanks to the mentorship of his nurses, including a very special alumna, Delaney Postma ’15. Knights Do That Podcast: The Future of Nursing UCF College of Nursing Associate Professor Desiree Diaz shares how UCF is leading the charge in virtual reality education, the importance of teaching students about cultural congruence and how simulation technology is integral to the future of nursing. ﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿ UCF Lake Nona Hospital Training Future Doctors, Nurses Sooner than Expected Within the year since its opening, the hospital has gained national recognition among HCA hospitals for quality of care and patient satisfaction. 2022 UCF Founders’ Day Honorees The annual celebration honors the academic achievements of our faculty members and students. UCF Recognized for Academic Excellence and Advancing Professional Careers in Engineering, Research and Innovation Led by the nation’s No. 3 homeland security program and some of the best engineering and research-innovation programs in the country, U.S. News & World Report ranked more than 30 UCF graduate programs among the best. 26 Exemplary Students Awarded 2022 Order of Pegasus Awarded each spring, the Order of Pegasus is UCF’s most prestigious student honor. Student Research Week Kicks off March 28 with a Whole New Look and Feel After decades of following the same format, Research Week has been reimagined to enhance the student experience. Recipients of the 2022 Seed Funding Program Announced The program awarded a total of $1 million to 32 teams. This is the third year the program has been available to UCF faculty and researchers. 2 Teams Awarded 2021 Pabst Steinmetz Foundation Arts and Wellness Innovation Awards The winning projects, which received $25,000 each, were chosen for adhering to the year’s theme of strength, resolve and resilience. A Conversation with UCF Nursing’s First Black Faculty Member As we celebrate Black History Month, we honor the achievements of Black Americans and how their contributions have shaped history – including UCF’s. UCF in the News Sea Turtle Nesting Season off to a Strong Start on Florida’s Atlantic Beaches Orlando Sentinel UCF Calls for More Research Spending, Faculty and Fundraising in Latest Strategic Plan Orlando Business Journal Where No Ice Was Seen Before: UCF Team Designs Lunar Satellite Tools to Hunt for Water Orlando Sentinel UCF, Orlando Health Testing Medical Technology That Could Help Detect Blood Clots Faster WOFL Fox 35 View All Stories about UCF Events at UCF May 31 Alcoholics Anonymous 7:00 pm - 8:00 pm Jun 1 Application Deadline: Peer Mentor for Summer Research Academy 12:00 am - 11:45 pm Jun 1 Application Deadline: Summer Research Academy 9:00 am - 10:00 pm View All Events Resources About UCF Today For the Media News Archive Pegasus Magazine Tell Us What You Think Suggest a Story University of Central Florida About UCF Contact Us Faculty Online Degrees Policies Privacy Notice Public Records Regulations Report a Concern UCF News 4000 Central Florida Blvd. Orlando, Florida, 32816 | 407.823.2000 © University of Central Florida