Skip to main content Temple University Explore Temple’s Schools and Colleges Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Support Temple Temple University Search Site Search Full Menu Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees President History & Traditions Temple Health News & Media Offices Public Information Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Development Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Libraries Dental Public Health Certificate (Graduate) You are here Home Academics Degrees and Programs Dental Public Health Certificate (Graduate) Apply Dental Public Health Certificate (Graduate) Admissions Required Courses Research & Facilities Graduate Certificate in Dental Public Health Train to prevent and control dental diseases and promote oral health through organized community efforts with the Dental Public Health Graduate Certificate from Temple University’s Kornberg School of Dentistry. This residency program allows you to explore various community programs and initiatives necessary to promote oral health and prevent and control dental diseases, such as assessments of oral health status and need for care, program evaluations to achieve community health goals, and use of scientific knowledge to influence oral health policy. Kornberg’s location on Temple Health Sciences Center in North Philadelphia affords students in the Dental Public Health Graduate Certificate program ample opportunities for research and field experience. Students will learn to evaluate and tackle an expansive range of dental public health issues presented in the surrounding patient population and in target communities served by our affiliated organizations. The program will also provide residents with the educational preparation needed to become eligible to take and pass the American Board of Dental Public Health (ABDPH) and achieve diplomate status; design, conduct and lead dental public health research projects; and practice dental public health. This certificate program adheres to the guidelines of the ABDPH and is designed to allow dentists with the Master of Public Health to complete the educational requirements for board certification as a specialist in dental public health. Classes & Curriculum The Dental Public Health Graduate Certificate can be completed on either a full- or part-time basis. Students enrolled full time typically take one year to complete the certificate, while students enrolled part time can take two to three years to graduate. The program curriculum is designed so that students come to understand not just the science, but also the art behind preventing and controlling dental diseases and promoting oral and general health through various community efforts. Courses you will take during your studies include Administration in Dental Public Health, Epidemiology and Prevention of Oral Diseases, Planning and Evaluating Field Experience in Dental Public Health, and Research in Dental Public Health. Learn more about Dental Public Health Graduate Certificate courses. Related Professional Degrees Dentistry DMD International Dentists DMD Related Graduate Certificates Advanced Education in General Dentistry Endodontics Orthodontics Periodontics Internships & Opportunities Students pursuing the Dental Public Health Graduate Certificate must complete a field experience with one of Kornberg Dental’s affiliated organizations. National Public Health Meetings Residents are encouraged to attend the American Public Health Association and American Dental Public Health Association annual meetings to expand their knowledge and take advantage of networking opportunities. The program will make resources available so that all residents may attend. Careers Graduates from the Dental Public Health Graduate Certificate residency program are prepared to continue on in their professional careers as dentists, though they’re also equipped with the necessary knowledge and skills to become administrators, educators and policymakers. Career Services Through the Office of Student Affairs, students pursuing careers in dentistry can get counseling and support during their tenure at Kornberg and after they graduate. The office regularly hosts career events and guest speakers covering a wide range of topics including corporate and private practice careers, debt management, general practice residencies, military service, and specialty education. Once enrolled in the program, you will receive regular notifications about career opportunities. Additionally, the school provides an updated list of job opportunities for dental professionals across the U.S. Tuition & Fees In keeping with Temple’s commitment to access and affordability, this graduate program offers a competitive level of tuition. Tuition rates are set annually by the university and are affected by multiple factors, including program degree level (undergraduate or graduate), course load (full- or part-time), in-state or out-of-state residency and more. These tuition costs apply to the 2021–2022 academic year. The tuition for Pennsylvania residents and nonresidents is $43,488. A $3,000 tuition deposit is required for accepted applicants. Learn more about our tuition and fees. Program Contact Marisol Tellez Merchán, associate professor and chair of the Department of Oral Health Sciences at the Kornberg School of Dentistry, is the graduate program director for the Dental Public Health program. Phone: 215-707-1773 Email: marisol@temple.edu Accreditation The program in Dental Public Health is accredited by the Commission on Dental Accreditation [and has been granted the accreditation status of “approval without reporting requirements”]. The Commission is a specialized accrediting body recognized by the United States Department of Education. The Commission on Dental Accreditation can be contacted at (312) 440-4653 or at 211 East Chicago Avenue, Chicago, IL 60611. The Commission’s web address is http://www.ada.org/en/coda.\ The Commission on Dental Accreditation has accredited the program in Dental Public Health. However, accreditation of the program does not in itself constitute recognition of any dental specialty status. DN-DPH-DENT Additional Program Information School/College Site View Program Details Go back to AcademicsMore in Dental Public Health Certificate (Graduate) Admissions Required Courses Research & Facilities Apply Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Calendar Policies Social Media TUportal TUmail Accessibility Careers at Temple Safety & Emergency Information Ethics & Compliance Privacy Statement Professional Licensure Disclosures Follow Temple University Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community. Apply