Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. Air Force ROTC AFROTC right arrow down arrow Our Detachment right arrow down arrow Detachment 665 Cadre right arrow down arrow Commander Recruiting Officer Operations Flight Commander NCOIC of Personnel NCOIC of Administration Program Director Prospective Cadets right arrow down arrow How to Join Crosstown Schools Program Requirements Returning to school? FAQ Request More Information Contact Us Home » Campus Life » Air Force ROTC Air Force ROTC The Air Force Reserve Officer Training Corps (AFROTC) at the University of Cincinnati is an educational program designed to give you an opportunity to become an Air Force or Space Force officer while you complete your degree. Whether you want to fly the most advanced aircraft in the world, work on the cutting edge of technology, or design and operate the latest space systems, there are over 100 officer career fields the U.S. Air Force and U.S. Space Force. We’re here to get you started. The mission of Detachment 665 is to develop quality leaders for the Air Force. Through our intense leadership instruction, aerospace coursework, and focused training environment that instills the values of integrity, service, and excellence we will prepare you to assume positions of increasing responsibility and importance as an officer leading the world's greatest Airmen and Space Professionals. AFROTC Mission: Develop Leaders of Character for Tomorrow's Air Force and Space Force. National Websites Air Force ROTC - The official website for all AFROTC, containing great information on the program outline, scholarships and the commissioning process. The United States Air Force - The official site, full of great information on the mission, education, careers and lifestyle of Air Force professionals. The US Space Force - It is here and it's only growing! Keep up with the lastest on thier official website! Welcome to the Jeanne M. Holm Center for Officer Accessions & Citizen Development. Air University Freedom of Information Act Section 508 Compliance Privacy Act Current as of March, 2022 Air Force ROTC Detachment 665 2585 Dennis St Cincinnati OH, 45221 513-556-2237 afrotc@uc.edu UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati Air Force ROTC Detachment 665 2585 Dennis St Cincinnati OH, 45221 513-556-2237 afrotc@uc.edu © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top