Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. Public Safety Public Safety right arrow down arrow About right arrow down arrow Contact Us FAQ Executive Team Newsroom right arrow down arrow Blog Posts Safety and Reform News Media Department Policies Safety Services right arrow down arrow Access Control & Physical Security Automated External Defibrillators Background Checks / Finger Prints right arrow down arrow FAQ Bicycle Registration Bearcat Guardian Crime Prevention right arrow down arrow Preventing theft from auto and auto theft Preventing theft and burglary Online and phone scams Housing Rental Scams Keys & Badges Lost & Found Mind What Matters NightRide Special Events right arrow down arrow Event Security Cost Estimate Special Events FAQ Be A Good Neighbor Police right arrow down arrow 911 Communications Leadership Community Engagement Team Crime Statistics Job Shadowing Mission, Vision and Values Bias Free Policing and Contact Cards Records and Reports Recruitment Victim Services right arrow down arrow What Are My Options? Harassment, Stalking and Dating Violence Sex Crimes K-9 Unit Request for Investigation University Threat Assessment Group Reform right arrow down arrow Board of Trustees' Resolution Community Compliance Council right arrow down arrow Meetings, Minutes and Materials Guiding Principles Values Members Resources External Reports and Voluntary Monitorship Clery Act right arrow down arrow Clery Notices Daily Crime Log Campus Security Authorities Annual Security Report Fire Prevention and Protection Units right arrow down arrow Fire Extinguisher Training Fire Drills and Smoke Detectors Areas of Rescue Assistance Fire Log Fire Alarm Construction Standards Emergency Management right arrow down arrow Emergency Procedures Safety Notifications Emergency Plans Bearcat Notifications Home » About UC » Public Safety » Reform Set Navigation title in component Board of Trustees' Resolution Community Compliance Council Meetings, Minutes and Materials Guiding Principles Values Members Resources External Reports and Voluntary Monitorship Reform The Office of Safety and Reform was created in 2015 following the officer-involved shooting of Samuel DuBose. Dr. Robin S. Engel, PhD, renowned criminal justice researcher, led the office as the Vice President of Safety and Reform. Dr. Engel was responsible for the Department of Public Safety and the reform efforts of the UC Police Division until the end of December 2018. The office worked to increase trust, open communication and cooperation between the UCPD and members of the university and its neighboring communities, and to establish a culture of transparency, legitimacy, fairness, collaboration, inclusion, diversity and innovation within the UCPD. The ultimate goal of the office was to transform the UCPD into a national model for excellence in urban university policing. Dr. Engel was appointed to lead the reform efforts of the UCPD in August 2015. That same month, James L. Whalen, a former Lieutenant Colonel with the Cincinnati Police Department, joined as UC's Director of Public Safety and S. Gregory Baker, former Executive Director of the Cincinnati Initiative to Reduce Violence, was hired as Director of Police Community Relations. Director Baker remained in his position until late 2018. Colonel Maris Herold, Police Chief, oversaw the daily operations of the UCPD until she resigned in the spring of 2020. Chief Herold assisted Dr. Engel, Director Whalen and Director Baker with the development and implementation of reform efforts. The Office of Safety and Reform was responsible for: Coordinating all investigations and reviews of the UC Police Division; Ensuring UC Police engage in fair and impartial policing to rebuild community trust; Enhancing the legitimacy of UCPD policing practices; Coordinating the Safety and Reform Community Advisory Council; And improving diversity and equity within the UCPD. The Department of Public Safety will maintain and continue all efforts by the Office of Safety and Reform following the dissolution of the office in December 2018. Department of Public Safety 51 West Corry Boulevard Cincinnati, OH 45221-0215 Main Number: 513-556-4900 Background Checks, Keys and IDs: 513-556-4925 UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati Department of Public Safety 51 West Corry Boulevard Cincinnati, OH 45221-0215 Main Number: 513-556-4900 Background Checks, Keys and IDs: 513-556-4925 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top