UH Home Maps IT Help A-Z Index AccessUH HOME Home Students Faculty Careers Alumni Email Printers About Welcome Administration Mission Why Choose Rankings Maps & Directions Employment Opportunities at UHLC UHLC Icons Law Center History J.D. Brochure LL.M. Brochure UHLC Brochure UH Law Center One Pager Admissions J.D. Admitted Students Transfer Applicants Visiting Student Applicants LL.M. LL.M. Admitted Students Joint J.D./LL.M .Program EAL Certificate Course Faculty Students Student Honor Code Student Handbook Course Schedule OSS Staff OSS Forms Scholarships and Financial Aid LL.M. Graduation Class Standing Information Alumni Upcoming Events Law Building Campaign Annual Law Gala & Auction Alumni Awards Giving Opportunities Alumni News & Highlights Resources & Organizations Continuing Legal Education Update Contact Info Contact Us Library UH Library Catalog Full Library Operating Hours 24/7 Library Access Texas Ethics Reporter Albertus Accolades Library Sitemap News & Events Top Stories The Lex Dean's Note Academic Calendar Event Calendar Law Center Event Planner Law Center Room Schedule Briefcase Magazine Briefcase Radio Lecture Archive UHLC in the News UHLC Gallery For the Media News Archive Academics Degrees Offered Learn Abroad Opportunities Clinics & Skills Training Externship Programs Centers, Institutes, and Select Programs Journals and Publications Order of the Coif UHLC Pre-Law Pipeline Program Giving Give Online Opportunities Resources & FAQs Ways to Give Contact Us AccessUH Students Faculty Career Development Office Alumni Email About Admissions Library News & Events Academics Giving Apply Now ABA Required Disclosures CLE Contact For the Media Class Schedule News and Events The Lex Dean's Note Academic Calendar Event Calendar Law Center Event Planner Law Center Room Schedule Briefcase Magazine Briefcase Radio Lecture Archive UHLC in the News UHLC Gallery UH Online Faculty Experts Guide Featured Faculty Experts Albertus Accolades For the Media Facilities Legal Information Technology ( Law Center) Information Technology (Central Campus) News and Events Menu ☰ News and Events The Lex Dean's Note Academic Calendar Event Calendar Law Center Event Planner Law Center Room Schedule Briefcase Magazine Briefcase Radio Lecture Archive UHLC in the News UHLC Gallery UH Online Faculty Experts Guide Featured Faculty Experts Albertus Accolades For the Media Facilities Legal Information Technology ( Law Center) Information Technology (Central Campus) Subscribe to our News Feed News Sources AP CNN Houston Chronicle New York Times Wall Street Journal Washington Post Other Links Weather Houston Traffic UH Campus Parking/Traffic Legal Blogs Search News Archives May 2022 Judicial ethics reform adopted after being recommended by UH Law Center Professor Jefferson May 26, 2022 – Justices on the United States Supreme Court and all federal judges must promptly report financial disclosures and make them available in a publicly accessible database according to a bill passed by Congress and signed into law this month by President Joe Biden. UH Law Center’s Karen Jones wins Fulbright International Education Administrators award May 23, 2022 - Karen Jones, the University of Houston Law Center’s Executive Director of Global and Graduate Programs, will spend part of the 2022-2023 academic year in France after being selected as a recipient of the Fulbright International Education Administrators award. Student Spotlight: UH Law Center 2L Sarah Smati earns Vinson & Elkins Diversity Fellow May 20, 2022, – Sarah Smati was recently awarded the Vinson & Elkins Diversity Fellowship, placing her alongside 17 second-year scholars from 13 different law schools in the United States to gain hands-on experience at a Vinson & Elkins law firm. UH Law Center celebrates one of its most diverse cohorts of graduates May 18, 2022 - The 2022 University of Houston Law Center Commencement ceremony was held at the Fertitta Center on Sunday, May 15. UH Law Center alumna Rogers ’70 establishes Dean Leonard M. Baynes Scholarship for Diversity in Law May 16, 2022 - With a career in philanthropy and service, Regina Rogers recently established a fund that will benefit University of Houston Law Center students for years to come with a gift in honor of Dean Leonard M. Baynes and dedicated to his commitment to diversity and inclusion. UH Law Center Associate Dean Tennessee receives Excellence in Education Award May 16, 2022 - The Houston Lawyers Association has named University of Houston Law Center Associate Dean Sondra Tennessee recipient of the 2022 Roberson L. King Award Alumni Spotlight: Quentin Brogdon ’89 leads as 2022 President of the Texas Trial Lawyers Association May 11, 2022 - For Quentin Brogdon, the 2022 President of the Texas Trial Lawyers Association and 1989 UH Law Center graduate, trial work is more than a job––it’s a passion. UH Law Gala celebrates 75 years of law school history, raises $600K for scholarships May 4, 2022––The University of Houston Law Center marked its 75th anniversary with a Roaring 2020s-themed gala, honoring the significant strides made by the UH Law Center and looking ahead to the next 75 years. More than $600K was raised for scholarships and initiatives to advance the Law Center’s mission. April 2022 UH Law Center encourages networking, mentoring and support in Dean's Diversity Dialogue April 28, 2022 –Sixty-four Black attorneys throughout Texas virtually took part in the Dean's Diversity Dialogue: Texas Big Law, Black Law Partner/Corporate Counsel Summit on April 25 to discuss recruitment and retention of, and collaboration among Texas Black lawyers. University of Houston Law Center mourns passing of Professor Emeritus Michael A. Olivas April 22, 2022 – Acclaimed higher education and immigration law scholar and Professor Emeritus Michael A. Olivas died today. Alumni Spotlight: Jim M. Perdue, Sr. ‘63 enters Trial Lawyer Hall of Fame April 21, 2022 - University of Houston Law Center alumnus Jim M. Perdue Sr. was celebrated recently as one of the best trial attorneys in the country as a 2022 inductee into the Trial Lawyer Hall of Fame UH Law Center Conference Addresses Energy Implications of Russia's Ukrainian Invasion April 20, 2022 - The 4th Annual Denney L. Wright International Energy Tax Conference and the Houston Business and Tax Law Journal’s 22nd Annual Symposium daylong conference addressed as a key topic the energy crisis caused by the war in Ukraine. UH Global Law and Policy for the Americas webinar examines lessons from the pandemic April 18, 2022 – Legal scholars from around the world virtually convened with the University of Houston Law Center for a wide-reaching panel on “Global Challenges, Local Solutions: Supply Chains, Sustainability, and Governance,” offering insights and action steps to some of today’s pressing issues. UH Law Center honors students, faculty and staff at 2022 Dean’s Awards Ceremony April 15, 2022 – The University of Houston Law Center held its annual Dean’s Awards Ceremony on Monday to recognize the achievements of law faculty, students and staff. The event was held virtually and was co-hosted by UH Law Center Dean Leonard M. Baynes and Associate Dean of Law Alumni and Community Relations Sondra Tennessee. Rosenberg lecture focuses on first Black female federal justice April 7, 2022 – The topic of the University of Houston Law Center’s annual Yale L. Rosenberg Memorial Lecture was well-timed this year. Held on March 22, the discussion centered on Judge Constance Baker Motley, the nation’s first Black female federal justice and a new book on Motley written by Harvard scholar, Tomiko Brown-Nagin. UH Law Alumni Association Awards 2021-2022 Recipients Announced April 6, 2022 – The UH Law Alumni Association has selected outstanding alumni and law faculty who have made significant contributions and who continue to showcase the Law Center in the business and legal community. March 2022 Alumni Spotlight: Stephen Wallace ’83 Establishes Endowed Scholarship and Scholarship Match through 2024 March 31, 2022 - For Stephen Wallace, a 1983 graduate of the University of Houston Law Center, supporting future scholars at UH is about advocating for education. Three UH Law Center specialty programs keep longstanding Top 10 status in latest U.S. News & World Report rankings March 29, 2022 - Multiple University of Houston Law Center specialty programs are among the best in the country, according to results of a new U.S. News & World Report annual survey released today. Law Center’s Alternative Dispute Resolution Teams enjoy success at ABA Client Counseling Competition March 23, 2022 – The University of Houston Law Center’s Alternative Dispute Resolution (ADR) Teams celebrated huge wins at the American Bar Association Client Counseling Competition recently. Harvard scholar to analyze legacy of civil rights icon at UH Law Center’s Yale L. Rosenberg Memorial Lecture March 21, 2022 - Tomiko Brown-Nagin will lead a discussion entitled, “Civil Rights Queen: Constance Baker Motley and the Struggle for Equality,” as the keynote speaker at the University of Houston Law Center’s annual Yale L. Rosenberg Memorial Lecture. The lecture will be held virtually through Zoom and will begin at 6:30 p.m. Central on Tuesday, March 22 UH Law Center Ranks 27 in 2022 ‘Go-To’ Law School List March 18, 2022 – Law.com has selected the University of Houston Law Center as one of the top 30 law schools in the nation when it comes to sending graduates to associate positions with “Big Law.” The Law Center moved up 3 spots to No. 27 from its No. 30 ranking in 2021. It is the highest UHLC has ranked since the list began in 2010. Elizabeth D. Rockwell Faculty Fellow Award granted to UHLC Professor Gina S. Warren for her research on justice during the energy transition March 11, 2022 - University of Houston Law Center professor and scholar Gina S. Warren recently received the Elizabeth D. Rockwell Faculty Fellow Award, an achievement she says will allow her to conduct research on “achieving equity in social and economic participation in the energy system. Student Spotlight: 3L Neil Segel shares energy expertise in NAPE, The Magazine For Deal Makers March 10, 2022 - For Neil Segel, a 3L at the University of Houston Law Center, legal education is a stepping stone toward finding his place within the unfolding energy transition. Impact of American Media Biases on Communities of Color Discussed in Law Center Webinar Mar. 8, 2022 – The way that race and racism intersect with American media over the last hundred years was presented in a two-day webinar held Feb. 25-26. UHLC Dean Baynes named distinguished alum by Columbia Black Law Students Association March 7, 2022 – UH Law Center Dean M. Leonard Baynes ’82 was recognized by the Columbia Black Law Students Association (BLSA) recently as a distinguished alumni honoree at the 28th Annual Paul Robeson Gala. Baynes received an award for his contributions and achievements. February 2022 Judge Marcia A. Crone ‘78 reflects on career and the future of the legal profession Feb. 25, 2022––Judge Marcia A. Crone ‘78 outlined the options, opportunities, and objectives defining the legal profession today, encouraging Law Center students and alumni to embrace personal and professional growth, diversity, and career opportunities at this year’s Justice Ruby Kless Sondock Jurist-in-Residence Lectureship. University of Houston and Georgetown University Law Schools Partner in Colloquium on Race, Racism, and American Media Feb. 21, 2022 – The University of Houston Law Center and Georgetown University Law Center, in collaboration with Free Press’ Media 2070 project, will explore historic and contemporary racial discrimination in all modalities of modern media. The virtual colloquium will run from February 25 to February 26 and will begin at 10:30 a.m. EST on Friday and 10:50 a.m. EST on Saturday. UH Law Center Dean Baynes emphasizes the importance of diversity for the future of the legal profession Feb. 17, 2022— Law schools that embrace diversity, equity, and inclusion will be better equipped to serve the legal profession and society, said UH Law Center Dean Leonard M. Baynes in a recent podcast episode of EdUp Legal. Alumni Spotlight: UH Law Center alumnus Muhammad Aziz ’04 named Attorney of the Year Feb. 15, 2022 – Texas Lawyer and ALM Media, LLC recognized the legal accomplishments of University of Houston Law Center alumnus Muhammad “Mo” Aziz ’04 by naming him “Attorney of the Year” in their 2021 Texas Legal Excellence Awards which honor legal careers impacting the Texas legal profession. UH Law Professor Chandler leads discussion on changing abortion laws Feb. 8, 2022 - The outcome of hotly-contested abortion laws in Texas and Mississippi could have major ramifications across the country, from reproductive rights and Roe v. Wade to the political arena, according to UH Law Center Professor Seth J. Chandler. Joseph A. Vail Asylum Workshop shares valuable immigration insights in the era of the Biden Administration Feb. 7, 2022 – More than 350 practitioners attended the annual Joseph A. Vail Asylum Workshop recently. UH Law Center faculty highlight emerging trends in legal jurisprudence Feb. 2, 2022 – Moderated by Dean Leonard M. Baynes, UH Law Center faculty recently participated in a virtual CLE seminar and discussed critical race theory, feminist jurisprudence, law and economics and traditional legal analysis. Princeton Review ranks UH Law Center Among Top 50 in latest survey Feb. 3, 2022 – The Princeton Review has released its annual list of the Best Law Schools giving the University of Houston Law Center high marks for best college experience, best career expectation and best academic achievement. January 2022 The White House and Justice Department recognize UH Law Center among 99 law schools for work on eviction prevention Jan. 31, 2022 - Senior Biden Administration officials convened a virtual event last Friday where they announced law schools which responded to the Attorney General’s Call to Action to the Legal Profession to address the housing and eviction crisis. Connor Thompson named new EENR research scholar, brings government and private sector expertise January 31, 2022 – Connor A.Thompson, a seasoned researcher specifically in energy, oil and gas, and utility law, has joined the University of Houston Law Center's Environment, Energy, and Natural Resources Center (EENR) as a research scholar. UH Law Center’s Juvenile and Children’s Advocacy Project and CenterPoint Energy’s Legal Department Join Forces on a Juvenile Record-sealing Initiative Jan. 25, 2022 - (HOUSTON) – The Juvenile and Children’s Advocacy Project (JCAP) at the University of Houston Law Center today announced its first corporate partnership with CenterPoint Energy. UH Law Center receives top honors in national digital marketing competition Jan. 24, 2022 – The Education Digital Marketing Awards (EDMAs) has presented the University of Houston Law Center with two awards for its marketing efforts. The Law Center was recognized as a gold winner for marketing of the inaugural Black Lawyers Matter Conference titled, “Strategies to Enhance Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion.” UH Law Center Dean Baynes receives Clyde Ferguson Award during AALS 2022 Annual Meeting Jan. 18, 2022 – University of Houston Law Center Dean Leonard M. Baynes was the recipient of the Clyde Ferguson Award from the Association of American Law Schools’ Section on Minority Groups. Baynes received the accolade during a recent virtual ceremony. Student Spotlight: UH Law Center 3L Tiffany Penner secures two federal clerkships Jan. 12, 2022 - Tiffany Penner, a member of the University of Houston Law Center Class of 2022, will have multiple experiences working in a judge’s chambers for the better part of three years after she completes her legal education in May. Examining environmental waiver abuse: UH Law Center Prof. Flatt honored for article outlining issues, solutions Jan. 10, 2022 - Throughout the COVID-19 pandemic, University of Houston Law Center Professor Victor Flatt quickly realized that emergency environmental waivers were becoming routinely abused, so he began to look into it further. Immigration law experts to provide updates on federal policy at UH Law Center’s annual asylum law seminar Jan. 10, 2022 - Practitioners will receive guidance on the Biden Administration’s approach to immigration at the Joseph A. Vail Asylum Law Workshop, presented by the Immigration Clinic at the University of Houston Law Center. The virtual program begins at 9 a.m. on Friday Jan. 28. UH Law Center faculty experts and guest to discuss trending legal topics Jan. 5, 2022 - Scholars from the University of Houston Law Center will analyze critical race theory, feminist jurisprudence, law and economics and traditional legal analysis during a seminar at 4:30 p.m. on Jan. 13 presented via Zoom. December 2021 TikTok Content Highlights Flaws in Sexual Education According to New Paper Dec. 22, 2021 - Teenagers and young adults who turn to TikTok for sexual education may be vulnerable to misinformation, according to an article co-authored by University of Houston Law Center Research Assistant Professor Leah Fowler of the Health Law & Policy Institute. New Study from the UH Law Center Finds Racial and Ethnic Disparities in Lending Industry Advertising Dec. 21, 2021 – A new study authored by University of Houston Law Center Professor Jim Hawkins and student Tiffany Penner and published in the Emory Law Journal indicates that the payday lending industry often targets Black and Latino communities in advertising their products, while the mainstream banking industry targets white consumers. Judge Fortunato Benavides ’72 discusses career journey and importance of clerkships with University of Houston Law Center faculty and students Dec. 14, 2021 - Federal Judge Fortunato Benavides, a 1972 alumnus of the University of Houston Law Center, spoke recently with faculty and students about his path to judgeship, meeting with former President Bill Clinton, and what he looks for in a law clerk. UHLC’s Samantha Casas ’21 presented ATJ Law Student Pro Bono Award at New Lawyers Induction Ceremony Dec. 3, 2021––Thousands of new attorneys were sworn in to the State Bar of Texas recently including 2021 UH Law Center graduate Samantha Casas, recipient of the Law Student Pro Bono Award. UH Law Center Gets a New Address Dec. 2, 2021 – The University of Houston Law Center has an official new street address. It is shifting from 4604 Calhoun Rd. to 4104 Martin Luther King Blvd Click here for 2021 News Archive News Sources AP CNN Houston Chronicle New York Times Wall Street Journal Washington Post Other Links Weather Houston Traffic UH Campus Parking/Traffic Legal Blogs Search News Archives 4104 Martin Luther King Blvd Houston, TX 77204-6060 713-743-2100 General 713-743-2094 Legal Clinics A–Z Index Academic Calendar Campus Carry Policy Campus Map Careers at UHLC Class Schedule UHLC Directory Emergency Information Get Help Human Resources The Lex Library Mental Health Resources Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Office of Equal Opportunities Service Open Records/Public Information Act Office of the President Parking Report Copyright Infringement Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness Texas Veterans Portal Tuition & Fees UH System Virtual Tour ©2022 University of Houston Law Center. All rights reserved. Report a problem with this page Texas.gov Texas Homeland Security TRAIL Fraud Reporting Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Linking Notice Privacy Notice Open Records/Public Information Act Institutional Résumé Required Reports Electronic & Information Resources Accessibility Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness University Policies