Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. International Services International Services right arrow down arrow Admissions and Arrival right arrow down arrow Cost and Finances Apply to UC right arrow down arrow Transfer to UC Exchange and Visiting Student Programs DACA Students Next Steps to Enroll Orientation & Check-in Visas and Immigration right arrow down arrow Students right arrow down arrow F-1 Students J-1 Students Faculty, Staff and Interns right arrow down arrow J-1 Scholars J-1 Interns H-1B Workers E-3 Status O-1 Status TN Status Permanent Residency Dependents Change Your Status Government Updates Visa Fees Life at UC right arrow down arrow Student Experiences Essential Resources right arrow down arrow Housing and Dining Transportation Finances Healthcare and Insurance Law and Safety Academics Student Employment right arrow down arrow On Campus Off Campus OPT (F-1 Students) right arrow down arrow OPT Seminar CPT (F-1 Students) Fellowships and Assistantships (J-1) Academic Training (J-1) Social Life Hiring, Hosting and Admitting right arrow down arrow Hiring International Workers right arrow down arrow Students Hosting Visitors and Delegations Admitting Students Using iBearcatsGlobal Credential Evaluation Taxes right arrow down arrow How to File right arrow down arrow Non-Resident with US Income Non-Resident with No Income Resident Alien with No Tax Treaty Resident Alien with a Tax Treaty SSN & ITIN right arrow down arrow Social Security Tax Refund Contact Us iBearcatsGlobal Home » About UC » International Services » Taxes » How to File » Resident Alien with a Tax Treaty Set Navigation title in component How to File Non-Resident with US Income Non-Resident with No Income Resident Alien with No Tax Treaty Resident Alien with a Tax Treaty SSN & ITIN Social Security Tax Refund Filing Taxes as a Resident Alien with a Tax Treaty Benefit You are considered a Resident Alien with a Tax Treaty Benefit if you meet the following criteria: Have been in the U.S. as an F-1, or J-1 Student for more than 5 calendar years Have been in the US as a J-1 non-student for more than 2 calendar years Have been in H-1B status for 183 days or more during the past year Obtained Permanent Residency status (Green Card) at any time during the past year Obtained U.S. Citizenship at any time during the past year You claimed a tax treaty benefit as a person from one of the applicable countries File your tax report Unfortunately, there is no software product available to assist with these kinds of returns. Because you are claiming a tax treaty benefit, you may receive a Form 1042-S from UC or CCHMC, which will be sent to you via email prior to March 15. We recommend waiting for that before filing your tax report. There are two ways you can file your report: Try to file on your own for free Use an accounting firm File on your own right arrow down arrow To file on your own, follow these steps: File Form 1040 (NOT Form 1040-EZ) On the top of all pages, write "Resident Alien With Tax Treaty Exemption" Include all income (including tax treaty exempt income) on the appropriate lines On the "Other Income" line of Form 1040, enter the total of the tax treaty exempt amount as a negative number so it will be subtracted On the dotted line beside "Other Income," write "Exempt Income. U.S.-{country} tax treaty, Article {article number}" Also get Page 5 of Form 1040NR and on question L, complete the information about your tax treaty claim Assemble your tax return with Form 1040, Forms W-2 and/or 1042-S, if received, and Page 5 of Form 1040-NR, along with any other required attachments Mail your return to the address noted on the form Use an accounting firm right arrow down arrow UC International has negotiated the service of Sprintax with accounting firm Intuit. For $100, they will help you file your Federal and State tax returns. To use this service, email Steven Harris. After completing and printing your Federal Income Tax Report, complete a State Tax Report for the states you lived in. UC International 7148 Edwards Center One 47 W. Corry Blvd. Cincinnati OH 45221 513-556-4278 international.students@uc.edu UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati UC International 7148 Edwards Center One 47 W. Corry Blvd. Cincinnati OH 45221 513-556-4278 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top