Skip to main content Skip to primary site menu Google Tag Manager Search form Search Explore Brown University Search Global Navigation Learn More About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life Find A to Z Index People Directory Information for Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Top Destinations Global Brown Watson Institute Graduate School Alpert Medical School School of Public Health School of Engineering Global Brown Center for International Students Home About Incoming Students Undergraduate Students Graduate Students What to Bring Banking and Finances Cultural Adjustment Cell Phones Current Students Additional Resources Academic and Language Campus Life & Student Services Health Care & Insurance Immigration and Visas Working as a Student Providence and Rhode Island Life After Brown Site Navigation Home About Global Brown Lounge Meet Our Team Andrew Heald Stay in Touch! Incoming Students Undergraduate Students About the International Mentoring Program (IMP) International Undergraduate Orientation Fall 2022 Graduate Students What to Bring Banking and Finances Cultural Adjustment Cell Phones Current Students GBC Programs & Events Semester Breaks and Summer Additional Resources Academic and Language Campus Life & Student Services Health Care & Insurance Immigration and Visas Working as a Student Providence and Rhode Island Life After Brown Providence and Rhode Island Go Beyond College Hill! You've traveled a distance to get to Brown but don't forget to venture out! As the smallest state in the United States, nothing in the state is very far from Brown (though because we in Rhode Island get used to how near everything is, we can say that places as close as a 15 minute drive away are too far). Providence was one of the first cities in the United States to become industrialized, resulting in a sizeable immigrant community. This means that Providence is home to food markets, restaurants, and other vendors that feature international products. International House of Rhode Island Located at 8 Stimson Street (just around the corner from Brown's athletic facilities), the International House of Rhode Island gives aid, services, and friendship to all temporary international residents in Rhode Island, including students. Community Engagement Through programming, advising, and fellowships, the Swearer Center for Public Service (25 George Street) engages the university in collaborations with local partners to strengthen communities and prepare students to lead lives of effective action. Web Gateways to Providence and Rhode Island For helpful information about transportation, arts and entertainment, dining, shopping, accommodations, and much more, check out Providence's official Web sites: Providence's official Web site (which includes an option to translate the site into many different languages -- see the right side of the site) Go Providence Downtown Providence (called Downcity by most locals) Official Web site of the State of Rhode Island and Providence Plantations Visit Rhode Island Cityof.com also has a site about Providence. This has a great number of links to places of interest in Providence in alphabetical order by category. The lists of shopping centers and taxi companies, for example, are fairly exhaustive. Shopping & Dining in Providence The main shopping destination near Brown is the Providence Place Mall. Beyond the mall there are a few other major stores that are located in the area, including Wal-Mart (at 51 Silver Springs Avenue) and Staples at 555 North Main Street. There are many more options, including in Cranston (RI), Warwick (RI), Seekonk (MA), and Wrentham (MA), if you have access to a car or have more time for a longer bus ride. There are also several neighborhoods that are within walking distance or a short bus ride of Brown. These neighborhoods offer restaurants and shopping, including many locally owned establishments. Thayer Street Wickenden Street Wayland Square Hope Street OISSS maintains food, shopping, and recreation options. Groceries For general groceries, there is Eastside Market, which delivers to the campus, as well as several outlets of Whole Foods (a little more expensive) and a Stop and Shop. During the fall and beginning again in the spring, Brown hosts a local farmer's market on campus on Wednesdays. Additional Resources Academic and Language Campus Life & Student Services Health Care & Insurance Immigration and Visas Working as a Student Providence and Rhode Island Life After Brown Global Brown Center for International Students Global Brown Center for International Students Campus Life & Student Services Box 1840 Page-Robinson Hall 312 69 Brown Street Providence, RI 02912 Phone: 401-863-6397 Email [email protected] Facebook Facebook Instagram Instagram Brown University Giving to Brown Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA 401-863-1000 Contact Us Maps Directions Career Opportunities Campus Safety Accessibility All Social Media © 2022 Brown University | Back to top