Skip to main content Skip to site menu Skip to Brown menu Skip to site search Information For: Current Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Brown University Enter search keyword About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life A to Z Index People Directory Student Accessibility Services Disability Emergency Evacuation Planning (DEEP) Student Accessibility Services Disability Emergency Evacuation Planning (DEEP) Disability Emergency Evacuation Planning The DEEP list is maintained so that any Brown community members concerned about evacuating can register and plan needed assistance in advance. To request to be on this list, please email [email protected] or call 401-863-9588 to request the DEEP Registration form. You can also contact SEAS to get additional information. All students, employees and visitors to Brown are encouraged to be familiar with the evacuation process for any venue they enter. Please make sure you obtain the information you will need to safely evacuate, especially if you have disability related concerns that may impact this process. If a fire alarm is sounding in a building, the elevators will not work. Disability Emergency Evacuation Program (DEEP) If you spend ongoing time in a building where you will need assistance evacuating, we encourage you to register for the Disability Emergency Evacuation Plan (DEEP). This program enables you to provide information about where you will be as well as your cell phone number and will prompt emergency personnel to check in with you in the event of an emergency. This plan is designed for use in places such as your residence hall or office. It is not possible for this plan to cover all buildings you may visit so make sure you follow the general instructions for all campus locations you have not listed. Please contact the Fire Safety Office by email at [email protected] to assist you in making an evacuation plan for your location. Here are some suggestions if you are in a location where you cannot safely evacuate without assistance from emergency personnel: Make sure you know a safe location to wait for asisstance, also known as an "Area of Rescue." This could be a stairwell with a fire door (exterior stairwells are best) or an office with a fire door. An example would be an enclosed stairwell landing, or an office or residence hall room with sprinklers. If you are with someone who can evacuate, ask them to communicate with emergency personnel about your location and that you are unable to evacuate without assistance. It is better for them to evacuate so they can assist in getting rescue personnel to you faster; having a second person to rescue could also endanger both of you. Call 401-863-4111 to alert Brown's Department of Public safety about your location and request assistance evacuating. If the number is busy, call 911. If you are in a space with a window and can put something bright in the window, this may assist emergency personnel in locating you effectively; do NOT break the window. If you are in an office with a door that closes, you may want to press something wet along the door jamb (if possible) to prevent smoke from entering the space. For Students If you are a student registered for DEEP, and the fire alarm activates within the building you live in, Public Safety will dispatch an officer to locate you in your residence hall room. It is recommended that you stay in your room with the door closed. If you are in immediate danger, proceed to the nearest stairwell. If you are in another location other than what is registered in DEEP, and the fire alarm is activated in your present location, you need to call Public Safety and advise them where you are. The fire department will provide evacuation assistance. Student DEEP page: http://www.brown.edu/campus-life/support/accessibility-services/deep-disability-emergency-evacuation-program For Faculty and Staff Faculty and staff who need accommodations need to register with Broadspire. Please call 888-599-8576 to begin the process. They will manage registration and documentation processes. Broadspire will coordinate with HR for on-campus accommodations such as Emergency Evacuation. If you have any questions on this process you can reach out to Human Resources to be connected to the coordinator (401-863-3175). If you are a registered staff member or employee with DEEP, if the fire alarm activates in the building you work in, Public safety will respond to the location that is registered in DEEP. If you are in another location other than what is registered in DEEP, you need to call Public Safety and advise them of your location. Public Safety will try to locate you and advise first responders that you need assistance evacuating. The fire department will provide evacuation assistance. Employee DEEP page: http://www.brown.edu/campus-life/support/accessibility-services/deep-disability-emergency-evacuation-program-employees Brown Fire Safety Office: [email protected] or 401-863-3462 Home Getting Around Campus Registration Accommodations & Services Academic Accommodation Letter Notifications Graduate Student FAQ Faculty Report an Accessibility or Accommodation Concern Access or Accommodation Concerns Appeals Accessibility/Awareness Resources Emergency Planning Event Accessibility Financial Assistance for Evaluations or Coaching Library SAS Rooms Scheduling Support Groups & Events School of Professional Studies (SPS) Programs Print this Page Share this Page Student Accessibility Services Brown University Box Box P Providence, RI 02912 Phone 401-863-9588 Fax 401-863-1444 [email protected] Brown University Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-1000 Maps & Directions / Contact Us / Accessibility © 2022 Brown University Connect: [email protected] Facebook Twitter YouTube iTunes U LinkedIn SnapChat Resources A to Z Index Career Opportunities Make a Gift People Directory Web Links WebServices BrownSites Demo BrownSites Documentation Special Links Your Custom Links PAUR Media Relations Web Style Guide