skip to main content University of Nevada, Reno Homepage Apply Visit News Give Search www.unr.edu Search www.unr.edu Search Search www.unr.edu Search www.unr.edu Quicklinks Expand or Collapse to view popular links for this site Alumni Faculty & Staff Parents Students Academic Calendar Campus Catalog Directory Email Access Library Maps MyNevada WebCampus Workday Zoom Login Menu Expand or Collapse to view links grouped by top level headings Quicklinks Alumni Faculty & Staff Parents Students Academic Calendar Campus Catalog Directory Email Access Library Maps MyNevada WebCampus Workday Zoom Login Campaign Why give Honor Court Nevada Legacy Society Silver & Blue Society University Associates What to support Ways to Give Annual Giving Pledge Payments Wolf Call Annual Giving Initiatives Crowdfund Nevada Matching Gifts Planned Giving Stories Headlines Nevada Silver & Blue IMPACT stories Donor-Supported Faculty Positions Gratitude Wall of Gratitude Give Thanks Example Thank-You Notes The Foundation Board of Trustees Meetings and Agendas Asset Management Financials Annual Banquet Contact FAQs & Forms Deposit Procedures Endowment FAQs Foundation Deposit FAQs Scholarship FAQs Apply Visit News Give Giving University Advancement Campaign Why give Honor Court Nevada Legacy Society Silver & Blue Society University Associates What to support Ways to Give Annual Giving Matching Gifts Planned Giving Stories Headlines Nevada Silver & Blue IMPACT stories Donor-Supported Faculty Positions Gratitude Wall of Gratitude Give Thanks The Foundation Board of Trustees Meetings and Agendas Asset Management Financials Annual Banquet Contact FAQs & Forms To our Wolf Pack Family, thank you Thank you for your Campaign support Meet our 2021 Foundation Professors Give Now Help Students in Need Every meaningful gift to the University of Nevada, Reno Foundation has a powerful impact on our mission to promote learning, discovery and engagement. Thanks to 39,521 generous donors who made 285,209 gifts between July 1, 2013 and March 17, 2022, Building What Comes Next: The Campaign for the New Nevada surpassed its ambitious goal of $500 million with more than $502.86 million raised. Thank you to each and every one of you for your belief in a Nevada eduation. Your generosity is both inspiring and appreciated. Building What Comes Next: The Campaign for the New Nevada $500 million for the New Nevada Building What Comes Next: The Campaign for the New Nevada was a vital initiative designed to solidify the University's role as a key to the economic prosperity and stability of Nevada. Thanks to your philanthropic support, we achieved our $500 million fundraising goal on March 17, 2022. Learn about the Campaign Philanthropic support An overview Why give When you give to the University, you take a vital role in support of advancing knowledge, artistic expression, scientific discovery, technological progress and economic development. What to support From astronomy to art, from scholarships to student services, from faculty support to fellowships, from business to baseball, there is a fund that matters to you at the University. Ways to give The University accepts gifts of cash (cash, check and credit card), gifts-in-kind (property and real estate), and gifts of securities. Matching gifts can even triple your contribution. "I'm learning so much from so many different professors about some of my favorite topics. And it wouldn't be possible without the Richard Kleberg Agricultural Scholarship." Arturo '18 (veterinary science and agricultural science), current Ph.D. student Thank you Each fall, thousands of recipients of donor-funded scholarships express their gratitude to the donors who make their dreams possible. Visit the Wall of Gratitude "From the beginning, going to school was going to be 100% my own doing. I held jobs as a tutor and as a banquet server, but scholarships have really made my education possible." Emma '13 (chemistry, political science), '18 M.D., recipient of the Wells Fargo First Generation Scholarship Read Emma's story Donor-funded scholarships More than 4,480 students received donor-funded scholarships totaling $9.2 million in the 2021-2022 academic year. Learn about establishing a scholarship "We were weighing four offers for our research program. While a number of factors played into our decision, the Hitchcock Endowed Chair was something other places could not offer." The inaugural Mick Hitchcock, Ph.D. Chair in Medical Biochemistry, Peter L. Jones, on the importance of this endowment for the Peter and Takako Jones Lab Learn about the Jones Lab Donor-funded endowments More than 1,000 endowments bolster student scholarships, faculty funding and program support by nearly $8 million each year. Learn about establishing an endowment at the University Get involved Learn more about how to donate your time, talent and treasure to help students and faculty at the University. Answer the Wolf Call Every fall and spring, thousands of alumni, parents and friends of the University receive a call from a student who provides outreach through the Wolf Call Phonathon. Meet the Wolf Callers Crowdfund Nevada Crowdfund Nevada highlights a variety of campus projects and initiatives, allowing you to support areas on campus that mean the most to you. Current Initiatives Make a planned gift Estate and planned gifts secure the future of the New Nevada. The Office of Planned Giving stands ready to help you make informed gift planning decisions. Office of Planned Giving The Foundation The University of Nevada, Reno Foundation is a nonprofit 501(c)(3) organization (TIN: 94-2781749) separate from the University of Nevada, Reno. Learn about the Foundation IMPACT Philanthropic support makes a difference in lives across campus. 2021 Foundation Professor Elizabeth Leger: committed to our community through research and education An interview with Professor Leger 2021 Foundation Professor Krishna Pagilla: focused on bettering region through research Learn about Pagilla's water research 2021 Foundation Professor Markus Kemmelmeier: pursuing contemporary research leveraged nationwide Hear from Professor Kemmelmeier University Foundation celebrates 40 years Learn about the Foundation's impact Are you ready to make an impact on campus? Give to Nevada Division Contact Information Location: Morrill Hall Room Number: 101 Mailstop: 0007 Mailing Address: 1664 N. Virginia Street | Reno, NV 89557 Email: giving@unr.edu Phone: (775) 784-1587 Fax: (775) 784-1957 Hours: 8 a.m. - 5 p.m. Follow us on social media: Division Contact Information Facebook Follow the University University Twitter University Facebook University YouTube University Vimeo University Flickr University Instagram University LinkedIn University of Nevada, Reno 1664 N. Virginia Street, Reno, NV 89557 (775) 784-1110 Employment & Careers Non-Discrimination Statement Privacy Website Help Commitment to Diversity Commitment to Accessibility Contact the University Equal Opportunity and Title IX