Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Search Type Faculty & Staff Event Featured Profile News Opportunity Resource Student Research Project Videos Search Menu Info for… [Select an Audience] [Select An Audience] Prospective Undergraduate Students Current Undergraduate Students Prospective Graduate Students Current Graduate Students Faculty & Staff Parents Alumni Employers Admissions» Undergraduate Admissions Graduate Admissions Academics» Undergraduate Degree Programs Graduate Degree Programs Online Learning Non-Degree & Special Programs Academic Policies Departments» Applied Physics and Applied Mathematics Biomedical Engineering Chemical Engineering Civil Engineering and Engineering Mechanics Computer Science Earth and Environmental Engineering Electrical Engineering Industrial Engineering and Operations Research Mechanical Engineering Research» Faculty and Research Staff Institutes, Centers & Initiatives Department Research Research Areas Undergraduate Research Opportunities University and School Research Resources Innovation, Design & Entrepreneurship» Student Life» Undergraduate Student Life Graduate Student Life Living in New York City Commencement Student Profiles About» Dean of Columbia Engineering At A Glance Engineering for Humanity Mission & Vision Supporting the Vision History Plan A Visit Board of Visitors Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion People News Columbia Engineering Magazine Strategic Collaborations Get Involved Bulletin Make a Gift Contact Graduation 2022 Graduation 2022 Celebrating our graduates Read More Admissions Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs Academic Departments Research Innovation, Design & Entrepreneurship News » Press Release Study Confirms Differential Privacy Was the Correct Choice for the 2020 U.S. Census Columbia Engineering researchers demonstrate that the new privacy method—using differential privacy—is more effective than the old method of swapping, and better protects the privacy of minorities More May 19 2022 | By Holly Evarts | Photo Credit: Pixels Hunter/Shutterstock Helping Consumers Drive Change in the Fashion Industry Jeremy Yao MS’20 created Changing Room, a startup that gives fashionistas a way to shop smartly and sustainably online More May 18 2022 | By Kyle Barr Researchers Undertake Challenge to Image Every Cell in the Human Brain at Unprecedented Speed Team led by Elizabeth Hillman, professor of biomedical engineering, wins $9.1 million research grant to create fundamentally new maps that will chart cell More May 12 2022 | Zuckerman Institute How Electric Vehicles Could Fix the Electrical Grid Authorities are anxious about the U.S. grid’s ability to withstand ever-increasing demand. Columbia engineers Dan Bienstock and Matthias Preindl explain how EVs More May 06 2022 | By Anuradha Varanasi | Columbia News Awards and Honors Aho, Pitassi Elected to NAS 11 Students Win NSF Fellowships Shuran Song Wins NSF CAREER Award Tim Roughgarden Leads Crypto Research Center Community News Spotlighting Our Newest Alumni Meet the 2022 Valedictorian and Salutatorian Columbia Enhances Undergraduate Financial Aid Sunita Williams Announced as Class Day Speaker Events Jun 01 TISSUE TALKS: Melina Kibbe, MD, University of Virginia 3–4 PM | Online Event Jun 08 TISSUE TALKS: Jennifer Elisseeff, Johns Hopkins University 3–4 PM | Online Event Jun 15 TISSUE TALKS: Samir Mitragotri, Harvard University 3–4 PM | Online Event Jun 29 TISSUE TALKS: Natalia Trayanova, Johns Hopkins University 3–4 PM | Online Event Sep 16 BME Seminar: Tyrone Porter, Ph.D., The University of Texas at Austin 11 AM–12 PM | Northwest Corner Building, 550 W. 120 St., New York, NY 10027 501 Sep 23 BME Seminar: Russell D. ‘Rusty’ Lansford, Ph.D., USC 11 AM–12 PM | Online Event How to Build a Columbia Engineer: Class Day 2021 Runtime 3:33 How to Build a Columbia Engineer: Class Day 2021 Runtime 3:33 The Future of Climate Runtime 4:11 Read our feature on Columbia Engineering Magazine: https://magazine.engineering.columbia.edu Days on Campus | Part One: Student Life, Research, and Education at Columbia Engineering Runtime 1:59 Welcome to Columbia Engineering. In this video we introduce student life which begins with our philosophy of hands on experience in our Art of Engineering class and our famed "Core" Curriculum. Hear from students and faculty about the engineering experience here at Columbia University. Days on Campus | Part Two: Engineering for Humanity at Columbia Engineering Runtime 2:04 Part Two of our introduction to Columbia Engineering. Take a look at the academic mission from Engineering for Humanity to our Senior Design Expo. Days on Campus | Part Three: Where will Columbia Blue Take You Runtime 2:15 Engineering For Humanity Campaign Runtime 1:20 Our vision—Columbia Engineering for Humanity—sets a bold path for a sustainable, healthy, secure, connected, and creative humanity. It is exemplified by the pioneering work our faculty and students are doing across departments and disciplines, in partnership with sister schools, institutes, government, and industry. We have never been more optimistic about the role engineering can play in the service of society and in bringing those advances to the many challenges facing our world. See the impact Columbia Engineering is having today. Soundtrack by $3.33 Senior Design Expo 2019 Runtime 3:16 The class of 2019 brought fresh thinking to complex challenges at Columbia Engineering’s sixth annual Senior Design Expo. Overall, nearly 60 teams spanning the School and beyond presented their far-reaching innovations and research at a bustling showcase to an enthusiastic crowd of peers, professors, alumni, and the public. 9 Ways to Make Your City Smarter Runtime 4:29 Using data to engineer smarter urban spaces: Sensors that automatically transmit air, soil, and water conditions to smartphone apps; busy intersections connected to a local, cloud-enabled, deep learning system for coordinating pedestrian and autonomous vehicle traffic; a new formula for producing cement that significantly cuts greenhouse gas emissions. Increasingly, our crowded urban areas will require blue-sky visions like these to render them more livable, sustainable, and climate-resilient. Or, in other words, smart. Read the full story in our magazine site: magazine.engineering.columbia.edu COSMOS: Learning from the next generation wireless network Runtime 3:16 Up to 100 times faster than current wireless networks, 5G is being touted as the future of entertainment and telemedicine. But how might it begin to transform education? For a glimpse of what’s next, look no further than an immersive new educational toolkit in development from NYU and Columbia Engineering researchers with public school teachers throughout New York City. The Columbia Electrochemical Energy Center Launch Runtime 3:43 Columbia Engineering has launched a new research center, the Columbia Electrochemical Energy Center (CEEC), to address energy storage and conversion using batteries and fuel cells in transformative ways. Watch how the center tackles new energy solutions from atoms to the grid. This multi-faceted approach is driven by collaborations between participants from many disciplines. Art of Engineering: Freshman Introduction Runtime 4:07 In the first year, Columbia Engineering students take The Art of Engineering, a hands-on design course that introduces scientific concepts re-framed in engineering terms and introduces them to five major areas of technical inquiry: engineering, mathematics, physics, chemistry, and computer science. In this course, students see how their high school science and math knowledge can be applied in an engineering context to solve real world problems through classroom presentations and participation in an in-depth, hands-on project. Along the way, guest lecturers discuss social implications of technology, entrepreneurship, project management, and other important nontechnical issues affecting the practicing engineer. Engineering for Humanity: SUSTAINABLE Runtime 0:41 Engineering for Humanity: HEALTHY Runtime 0:43 The Robotics And Rehabilitation (RoAR) Lab develops innovative robots and methods to help humans relearn, restore, or improve functional movements. The lab is housed both in Engineering and Medical campuses of Columbia University. Led by Dr. Sunil Agrawal, the lab works actively with clinical faculty from Columbia University Medical Center and hospitals around New York City. Human studies have targeted elderly subjects and patients with stroke, cerebral palsy, spinal cord injury, Parkinson’s disease, ALS, and others. Engineering for Humanity: SECURE Runtime 0:29 Engineering for Humanity: CONNECTED Runtime 0:27 Engineering for Humanity: CREATIVE Runtime 0:50 Engineering for Humanity: CREATIVE Runtime 0:50 Engineering for Humanity: CREATIVE Runtime 0:50 Connect twitter MORE {{item.username}} | {{item.date}} 500 W. 120th Street #510 New York, NY 10027 Tel (212) 854-2993 Google Maps Plan a Visit Directory Columbia Engineering Columbia University Privacy Policy Terms of Use Faculty Job Opportunities Make a Gift Contact sitemap