Skip to main content Baylor Business - Hankamer School of Business Baylor University About HSB Student Resources Giving Contact Undergraduate #BU26 Graduate MBA Programs Army-Baylor Programs Master of Business Analytics Master of Information Systems Master of Economics Master of Accountancy Master of Taxation Doctorate in Entrepreneurship Doctorate in Health Services Research Doctorate in Information Systems Areas of Study Accounting & Business Law Baylor Business Fellows Economics Entrepreneurship & Corporate Innovation Finance, Insurance & Real Estate Information Systems & Business Analytics Marketing Management Centers & Institutes Entrepreneurship Family Business Financial Markets Health Policy & Leadership International Business Nonprofit Leadership Professional Selling Real Estate Sales & Marketing Sports Strategy and Sales Technology Center Ethics Podcast Events Career Center Alumni About HSB Student Resources Giving Undergraduate Graduate Areas of Study Centers & Institutes Ethics Business News Business News NEWSROOM HSB > Newsroom Baylor Team Wins Annual Big 12 MBA Case Competition April 4, 2022 A team of Baylor University MBA students won first place when they vied in the highly competitive 2022 MBA Big 12 MBA Case Competition, March 31-April 2, which was hosted at Iowa State University and sponsored by Kingland. For the competition, each school entered a team of four MBA students who were given a real-world business problem (the case) from Kingland. Students assessed the problem, researched possible solutions, presented their findings and recommendations – all within 24 hours of receiving the case. The teams presented their strategy to a panel of judges, composed of business executives and industry leaders, with the top three teams advancing to the final round. The final round included additional presentations and a question-and-answer session with the judges. The Baylor team was comprised of Aurelie Boutin, Katie Hanson, Ashleigh Moody and Chris Guerra. The team advisor was Patsy Norman, associate dean of Business Graduate Programs. Competition results: First place: Baylor University Second place: Texas Tech University Third place: Iowa State University Best Presenters: Cody Murphy (Kansas State), Jacquelyn Turner (TCU), Spencer Arnold (Iowa State) Best Q&A: Bailey Hackler (Oklahoma State), Regan Myers (TCU) and Austin Ralph (Oklahoma University) The following Big 12 universities participated in the 15th annual competition March 31-April 2, 2022 on the campus of Iowa State University. Iowa State University Kansas State University Baylor University West Virginia Oklahoma University Oklahoma State University Texas Tech University Texas Christian University This year’s event was sponsored by Kingland, a software company that is shaping the future of data and technology. For nearly 30 years, banks, regulators, insurers, and retailers have relied on Kingland-designed solutions to make the most of their data. More News ... Search Site Map Events Podcast Categories Audio Featured In the News Video News By Program All News Accounting Alumni Audio Business Law Dean's Office Economics Entrepreneurship Executive MBA Finance Graduate Programs Information Systems Insurance Management Marketing MBA Real Estate Research Students Undergraduate Programs Video Stay Connected Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkedIn Podcast YouTube RSS Feed Events Podcast Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkedIn Podcast YouTube RSS Feed Baylor Business Links About HSB Advisory Board Baylor Business Brand Events Maps & Directions News Find Us Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkedIn YouTube Podcast RSS Feed Resources and Tools Canvas Digital Measures Directory Faculty/Staff Resources HSB Policies Student Resources Copyright © Baylor® University. All rights reserved. Legal Disclosures. Baylor University Waco, Texas 76798 1-800-BAYLOR-U