COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW Details: Earth, Environmental and Physical Sciences, Master's Master'sEarth, Environmental and Physical Sciences All Programs Fairmount College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Geology A Master of Science (MS) in earth, environmental and physical sciences (EEPS) from Wichita State equips future scientists, professionals, and educators with general knowledge and skills in methodology, critical and creative thinking in scientific research—and advanced knowledge and skills in geology, environmental science or physics. Learn how Earth, Environmental and Physical Sciences is the right fit for you. Request Info Start Your Application Applied learning at Wichita State At Wichita State, applied learning is everything. In fact, every degree we offer has a guaranteed applied learning or research experience built right into it equipping you with the relevant skills and experience to make you workforce ready before graduation. Learn about our innovative approach Admission to the program For admission into the EEPS program, applicants must: Be admitted to the WSU Graduate School Have a bachelor's degree in any field of natural sciences Applicants with a bachelor's degree outside the field of natural sciences are also encouraged to apply for conditional admission. For additional admission details, click on the link below. Admission requirements Inside the Program Youngmeyer Ranch lets students study biology and conservation EEPS students can get up close and personal with nature. Hannah Hoetmer has helped study amphibians and reptiles of the Youngmeyer Ranch, assisted with multiple projects in the Biodiversity Lab that look at the insect diversity across Kansas, and held several paid positions as a technician studying plants in the Prairie Community Ecology Lab. She is working on a large project that will try to establish whether or not high quality photographs can be used with an animal version of facial-recognition technology to look at the differences in the intersections between the scales on the heads of lizards and snakes to identify individuals. Curriculum The program requires 30-36 credit hours and offers three ways to complete the degree: thesis (30 credit hours), internship (33 credit hours) and non-thesis / research (33 or 36 credit hours). View the curriculum Careers A graduate degree in earth, environmental and physical sciences from Wichita State will open doors to high-demand, high-paying careers in the public and private sectors—from all levels of government to industry and medicine. Learn more about careers in this field Similar Programs Biological Sciences (Master's) 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©