Skip to main content Temple University Explore Temple’s Schools and Colleges Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Support Temple Temple University Search Site Search Full Menu Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees President History & Traditions Temple Health News & Media Offices Public Information Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Development Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Libraries Classical Voice Certificate (Undergraduate) You are here Home Academics Degrees and Programs Classical Voice Certificate (Undergraduate) Apply Request More Info Classical Voice Certificate (Undergraduate) Admissions Classical Voice Undergraduate Certificate Broaden your musical interests, develop your vocal technique and participate in university music ensembles with the Undergraduate Certificate in Classical Voice in Temple’s Boyer College of Music and Dance. In addition to private lessons and ensemble participation, you’ll take courses in aural theory, piano and music theory to learn the skills necessary to pursue a professional career in performance arts. This 12-credit undergraduate certificate is designed for both music and nonmusic students who are interested in basic voice lessons and instruction on singing intervals, scales and triads. Complement your existing curriculum with courses focused on choral ensemble performance; music theory such as intervals, chord and rhythm structures, and simple harmonization; and piano skills including chords, improvisation, and sight reading. This undergraduate certificate is open only to non-Voice majors and students who have completed 15 credits at Temple by the start of the requested semester of certificate coursework. Classes & Curriculum The Classical Voice certificate program comprises core required courses, private voice instruction, and participation in choral ensembles on campus. Required courses include Aural Theory, Piano for Non-Music Majors and Topics in Music Theory. Learn more about the certificate program’s required and elective courses. Tuition & Fees The tuition for this Certificate Program is based on school or college of your major, program degree level (undergraduate or graduate), course load (full- or part-time), in-state or out-of-state residency, and more. Learn more about our tuition and fees. Advisors The Center for the Performing and Cinematic Arts has a centralized advising office with five staff members. This advising team serves all undergraduate students in the Boyer School of Music and Dance and the School of Theater, Film and Media Arts. Advisors help students navigate the undergraduate curriculum for each degree program. The academic advising team for Music, Dance, Theater, and Film and Media Arts majors is located in Mitten Hall, Suite 200 West. To schedule an advising appointment based on your individual needs or for more help, contact the advising team. Phone: 215-204-8301 Schedule an advising appointment. Program Contact Christine Anderson, associate professor and area coordinator for Voice and Opera, is the program contact for the Classical Voice Certificate (Undergraduate). Phone: 215-204-8375 Email: christine.anderson@temple.edu Ensembles Choral Ensembles Nearly 200 students each year participate in choral ensembles that have received national and regional acclaim for their performances, both collectively and individually. Students can earn one credit for most of the ensembles. Consider joining an ensemble, like the Concert Choir comprises undergraduate and graduate students at the Boyer College of Music and Dance. In addition to performing the great masterworks of the choral and orchestral canon, the choir performs a lot of new American choral music and has presented many first Philadelphia performances. Singing Owls, a mixed choir, is made up of Temple University alumni, faculty, staff and students as well as members of the greater Philadelphia community. The ensemble's primary goal is to create a dynamic and inclusive singing community through the appreciation and performance of music from diverse cultures, genres, places and time periods. University Chorale, a choir of men's voices, representing a wide range of majors within the Boyer and across the university. The chorale performs music of many cultures and times. In recent years, the choir has placed a special emphasis on contemporary American music, including works by Jeffery Ames, Carol Barnett, Eric William Barnum, Daniel Pinkham, Frank Ticheli and Z. Randall Stroope. Women's Chorus, a mixed choir of female students, representing a wide range of majors within the Boyer and across the university. The ensemble performs four times per year on campus as well as with the combined choirs and orchestra for the annual Kimmel Center for the Performing Arts concerts. Learn more about Temple University Choirs and other Boyer ensembles. Accreditation The Boyer College of Music and Dance is accredited by the American Music Therapy Association, National Association of Schools of Music, National Association of Schools of Dance and Pennsylvania Department of Education. BC-CLVC-CERT Additional Program Information School/College Site View Program Details Go back to AcademicsMore in Classical Voice Certificate (Undergraduate) Admissions Apply Request More Info Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Calendar Policies Social Media TUportal TUmail Accessibility Careers at Temple Safety & Emergency Information Ethics & Compliance Privacy Statement Professional Licensure Disclosures Follow Temple University Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community. Apply Request More Info