Skip to main content Skip to main content Prospective Students Current Students Alumni More Faculty/Staff News Media Parents Skip to main content Apply Apply Give Give Follow Us Follow Us Twitter Follow Us Facebook Follow Us Instagram Follow Us LinkedIn Follow Us YouTube Follow Us Social Stream Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. Navigate Search Skip to main content Online Master's Degrees Certificates Short Courses About Our Programs ☰ Online Degrees, Certificates & Courses at SMU SMU Online SMU Online Whether you want to update your skills or explore a new field, SMU online programs make it possible for you to keep learning, wherever you are. Access top-tier programs at Southern Methodist University, even if you work full time or live outside the Dallas area. You’ll have the opportunity to network with peers across the world, creating connections that can last a lifetime. Find the online program that’s right for you. Master's Degrees Certificates Short Courses Learn from Anywhere Designed with professionals in mind, SMU’s online programs give you the flexibility to learn from anywhere in the world, allowing you to complete coursework and earn a degree while working full-time. Outstanding Educators SMU’s programs are designed and taught by outstanding faculty and industry leaders. You’ll receive the same high-caliber SMU education whether you attend online or in-person. Interactive Learning Experiences As a student in an SMU online program, you’ll participate in highly engaging learning experiences using cutting-edge educational technology. Apply Visit School Cox School of Business Dedman College of Humanities and Sciences Dedman School of Law Lyle School of Engineering Meadows School of the Arts Moody School of Graduate and Advanced Studies Perkins School of Theology Simmons School of Education and Human Development Explore SMU Magazine Academic Calendar Events Calendar Guildhall Continuing and Professional Education Athletics Employment at SMU Campus Reporting a Bias Incident Report Sexual Misconduct Emergency Preparedness Student Life George W. Bush Presidential Center SMU Libraries Meadows Museum Tate Lecture Series Contact Us Maps and Directions Legal Disclosures © Southern Methodist University, PO Box 750100, Dallas, TX 75275 twitter facebook instagram linkedin youtube share