Skip banner navigation Skip to main content Close Navigation Screen Login to myCoyote View the Campus Directory CSUSB Library CSUSB Maps and Directions CSUSB Palm Desert Campus Make a Gift to CSUSB CSUSB Admissions - Global Site Navigation Admissions Overview - Global Site Navigation Apply to CSUSB - Global Site Navigation After I'm Admitted - Global Site Navigation First-year Students - Global Site Navigation Transfer - Global Site Navigation International Students - Global Site Navigation English Language Program - Global Site Navigation Undocumented Student Center - Global Site Navigation Osher Lifelong Learners - Global Site Navigation Military Veterans/Dependents - Global Site Navigation Financial Aid & Scholarships - Global Site Navigation Student Financial Services - Global Site Navigation Summer Session - Global Site Navigation Academics - Global Site Navigation Academic Calendar - Global Site Navigation Academic Advising - Global Site Navigation Degrees & Programs - Global Site Navigation Colleges & Departments - Global Site Navigation Course Catalog / Bulletin - Global Site Navigation Class Schedule - Global Site Navigation Online Programs - Global Site Navigation Academic Success and Undergraduate Advising - Global Site Navigation Graduate Studies - Global Site Navigation Office of the Registrar - Global Site Navigation Academic & Support Resources - Global Site Navigation Academic Research - Global Site Navigation Graduation Initiative 2025 - Global Site Navigation CSUSB Athletics Men's Sports Men's Sports Baseball Men's Sports Basketball Men's Sports Golf Men's Sports Soccer Women's Sports Women's Sports Softball Women's Sports Cheer & Dance Women's Sports Track & Field Women's Sports Cross Country Women's Sports Volleyball Women's Sports Soccer Women's Sports Basketball Campus Life - Global Site Navigation Events Calendar - Global Site Navigation Get Involved - Global Site Navigation Student Services - Global Site Navigation Recreation & Wellness - Global Site Navigation Student Health & Safety - Global Site Navigation Housing & Dining - Global Site Navigation Music & Arts - Global Site Navigation Student Employment - Global Site Navigation Campus Safety & Emergency Info - Global Site Navigation Palm Desert Campus Life - Global Site Navigation About CSUSB - Global Site Navigation Inside CSUSB - Global Site Navigation COVID-19 Campus Map - Global Site Navigation President's Office - Global Site Navigation Shared Governance - Global Site Navigation Strategic Plan 2015-2022 - Global Site Navigation Administrative Divisions - Global Site Navigation Organizational Chart - Global Site Navigation Strategic Communication - Global Site Navigation Mission, Vision & Core Values - Global Site Navigation Accreditation Assessment Site Header Region CSUSB Home We Define the Future Login to myCoyote View the Campus Directory CSUSB Library CSUSB Maps and Directions CSUSB Palm Desert Campus Make a Gift to CSUSB Search CSUSB Search CSUSB CSUSB Main Menu Page Header Inside CSUSB home News For the Media CSUSB Magazine Alert Toggle Inside Search Panel Search Inside CSUSB Search Inside Main Content Region CSUSB alumni and students honored at Assemblymember Reyes’ 30 Under 30 event Media Inquiries Joe Gutierrez | CSUSB Office of Strategic Communication | (951) 236-4522 | joeg@csusb.edu CSUSB alumni and students honored at Assemblymember Reyes’ 30 Under 30 event Thirteen CSUSB alumni and students were among the honorees for the fifth annual 30 Under 30 Awards Ceremony hosted by Assemblymember Eloise Gomez Reyes. The event recognizes the honorees for their achievements in community activism, business, health, education, art and social entrepreneurship. Published December 14, 2021 These CSUSB alumni and students were honored at Assemblymember Eloise Gomez Reyes’ 30 Under 30 event on Dec. 11 at San Bernardino Valley College. Thirteen Cal State San Bernardino alumni and students were among those honored for their work in helping others in the community by Assemblymember Eloise Gomez Reyes (D-San Bernardino) at the fifth annual 30 Under 30 Awards Ceremony. The event was held on Dec. 11 at San Bernardino Valley College and recognized the honorees for their achievements in community activism, business, health, education, art and social entrepreneurship. “Today’s goal is to honor the accomplishments of young people,” Reyes said. “I am confident that by celebrating the achievement of our future professional leaders we will encourage others to reach for the stars.” The CSUSB honorees are: Sandy Castellanos Sandy Castellanos, ’15 BS health science Sandy Castellanos is a first-generation college graduate, born to Salvadoran immigrant parents. After completing her bachelor’s degree in health science at CSUSB, she worked at the university’s student health center for two years before attending Azusa Pacific University, where she received a bachelor’s degree in nursing. Castellanos then began working at Loma Linda University Medical Center in adult acute care, where within one year she was awarded her the “DAISY” Award, which recognizes “the superhuman work nurses do for patients and families every day.” She transferred to the neonatal intensive care unit where she currently works with some of the most delicate neonates, including those exposed to COVID-19 and other illnesses and complications that keep them there until they are well enough to go home. Castellanos says she finds great satisfaction and purpose serving others. As she rocks to sleep infants in her care each night, she remains most hopeful that the world will be a better place for those precious lives. Alicia Echevarría Alicia Echevarría, ’21 BA communication studies Alicia Echevarría is the founder of God In Me Designs, a business with the mission of bringing cultural awareness and representation in the LatinX community through art and philanthropy. In her venture, Echevarría has had the ability to fund scholarships for undocumented high school and college students. Most notably, she is the creator of the first and only Guatemalan Loteria in the world, a game with the purpose of highlighting a culture that other communities may not be aware of. During her CSUSB career, she was a member of the Lambda Theta Nu Sorority, Inc., served as an orientation leader for the Department of Orientation and First-Year Experience, and worked as a resident advisor for the Department of Housing and Residential Education. Echevarría continues to give back to her alma mater as a staff member of the special events and guests services team and hopes to become a student affairs professional, where she plans to drive her energy into areas of higher education and beyond. Stephanie Garibo Stephanie Garibo, ’19 BA sociology Stephanie Garibo believes education must be accessible to all who try to challenge themselves and welcoming to students of all backgrounds. She is a firm believer in college accessibility, a sense of belonging, representation, and support to create college graduates. In previous roles, Garibo advocated for the CSUSB Adult Re-Entry Center by bringing awareness and helping create their first graduation ceremony, and for the Undocumented Student Success Center by raising awareness of issues the undocumented face. Garibo served as the undocumented professionals mentorship coordinator and was an Inland Empire Fellowship member. Overcoming challenges such as low income, first-generation, immigrant, Latinx, English language speaker, Garibo is pursuing her master’s degree in student development and college counseling at Azusa Pacific University. She serves for the National Association of Student Personnel Administrators under the Latinx Division and is the Region IV representative for the Undocumented and Allies Division. Garibo credits her family for her work ethic and passion for helping others. Adrian Hermosillo Adrian Hermosillo, ’20 BA business administration Adrian Hermosillo is an Inland Empire native and a mentor, leader and advocate. He began his higher education journey at Crafton Hills College. After completing his transfer course work, Adrian transferred to Cal State San Bernardino, earning his BA in business administration in marketing. His commitment to education and student success led him to serve as a student success coach for the CSUSB Cal Soap Program. In this role, he works with students across the inland region providing academic guidance; career and personal planning; and financial aid literacy as they prepare to pursue their higher education goals. Hermosillo is currently pursuing a master’s degree in higher education administration and policy at UC Riverside. His goal is to pursue a career in higher education, contributing toward reducing the educational gap for historically marginalized students and students with disabilities. His journey and determination continue to unfold his potential. While leaving an everlasting footprint, he inspires others in the unwavering pursuit of their goals. Leticia Herrera Mendez Leticia Herrera Mendez, ’19 sociology Leticia Herrera graduated from Cal State San Bernardino earning a bachelor’s degree in sociology and two certificates: one in Spanish public services and another in social services. She is committed to helping and spreading awareness about the Latinx community. Herrera believes education is the key to success and understands the struggle of going into higher education while being a first-generation student. Her passion for education, political change, and advocacy has been recognized by the 40th, 36th, and 31st California Congressional Districts. Herrera is an academic advisor for the San Bernardino City Unified School District. She is committed to continuing to help her community and providing resources to help others achieve higher education. Tyler Lange Tyler Lange, ’15 sociology Tyler Lange is a special education teacher in the Rialto Unified School District. He earned a bachelor’s degree from Cal State San Bernardino and a master’s degree in education from the University of Redlands. He is currently in his fifth year teaching at Henry Elementary School in Rialto. Lange is a talented, innovative and passionate teacher. He was recently recognized by RUSD during distance learning. When he began teaching, Lange saw the need for his students to learn to effectively use technology. Since he had already been using technology in his classroom, it made the transition to distance learning easier for his students. He has served in after-school programs as a tutor and basketball coach/referee. He also coordinates his school site’s social media accounts. As a special education teacher, he desires to see his students reach their full potential. He is dedicated to not only the students in his class but to all students in the community. He loves being able to give back to his hometown. Kevon Lee Kevon Lee, ’21 kinesiology Kevon Lee has lived a life that many could never comprehend. At the age of 5, he was placed in the foster care system due to being shot during a drug-related incident involving his parents. The trauma suffered from the incident and separation from his family led Lee down a path of depression. He developed an eating disorder and became extremely obese. He was able to find hope in mentors, faith, and his grandmother, whom he calls his angel on earth. Through hard work and perseverance, he was able to turn everything around. He made his struggles his mission. He is an activist for anti-bullying, education and at-risk youth. He shares his personal story to inspire and empower others to not give up and understand the power of their voice. He earned his bachelor’s degree from Cal State San Bernardino, and is currently at California Baptist University, where he is working toward a master’s degree in higher education leadership and student development. His sole mission is to leave an imprint on others to keep moving forward and equip them with the tools and mindset needed for them to reach their personal and educational dreams. His dream is to attain his doctorate in educational leadership and give back to the youth and continue impacting the lives of young adults. Kimberly Morales Kimberly Morales, ’20 BA literature, magna cum laude Kimberly Morales is a graduate student living in Fontana studying to become an information professional within the libraries of the Inland Empire. As a low-income, Latinx, first-generation college student, Morales has been met with many obstacles obstructing her goals. She is currently attending San Jose State University’s online master’s program for library and information science. She hopes to become an academic librarian and grow her career at the San Bernardino Valley College Library so that she can connect students with the proper tools, research, and information to best assist their academic journeys. Morales attended both SBVC and CSUSB where she worked at both academic libraries on campus as a library student assistant. During her time at the SBVC Library and CSUSB’s John M. Pfau Library, Morales’ passion for the library field grew more and more as she gained valuable skills and experience. Today, she is a library technician with the city of Colton’s Community Services Department overseeing teen programming. In this role, she works to provide a welcoming library environment by being a familiar and friendly person of color because she understands that representation matters. Gema Pena Zaragoza Gema Pena Zaragoza, political science Gema Pena Zaragoza is a 19-year-old Latinx, first-generation sophomore pursuing a bachelor’s degree in political science and a minor degree in sociology at Cal State San Bernardino. She is passionate about higher education, mental health, immigration rights, community organizing and advocacy. She helped Abigail Medina, San Bernardino City Unified School District board member, in her run for state senate. She assisted the California League of Conservation Voters to bring awareness to the environmental issues in the Inland Empire. She was involved in the Healthy Future California campaign to ensure that San Bernardino residents get the help they deserve to get vaccinated against the COVID-19 virus. Most recently, she helped get out the vote for the “Vote No” in the recall election of Gov. Gavin Newsom. Currently, she is a part of the San Bernardino City Unified School District English Learners Program at Arroyo Valley High School, where she helps students succeed in their academics by translating for them, being a supporter and a mentor. She is also involved in the Inland Empire Fellowship Program to assist students in making sure they succeed in their high school education and go on to college. Luis Portobanco Luis Portobanco, ’16 BA communication studies Luis Portobanco is a true unsung hero. An alumnus of CSUSB and the University of Redlands, he was the first in his family to pursue higher education. He now serves as a budget manager for student outreach programs, supporting a staff of up to 60, and being a resource to the entire Inland Empire. While his hard work and dedication are often completed behind the scenes, it is no secret that his support is key to the program’s success. Portobanco has been working full-time with the CSUSB Office of Pre-College Programs since 2015. His experience with the department, however, dates back to his time in high school when he was a participant in one of the program’s TriO programs. During his time at OPP he has been part of the CSUSB Community Emergency Response Team, winning the presidential group award in 2019 for his commitment to learning safety protocols and certification for emergency action on campus. He has also served on the leadership committee to plan the OPP Student Leadership Conference in March 2020. During this last year he joined the DSA Professional Development team in which he assisted with the DSA Annual Professional Day. Also, this year Portobanco was honored with the DSA Outstanding Employee award for his support to the team during the COVID-19 pandemic. Derick Prince Derick Prince, ’19 sociology Growing up, Derick Prince always had a passion for helping others. Prince attended Cal State San Bernardino to pursue a bachelor’s degree in sociology. While attending CSUSB, he served as the vice president for the Black Student Union, vice president for the Student African American Brotherhood, and chair of the Santos Manuel Student Union. While involved on campus at CSUSB, Prince still connected with his community. He was a peer mentor with Young Visionaries Youth Leadership Academy. In his role, he mentored at-risk youth at local middle schools to create a pipeline to college. After graduating from CSUSB, Prince attended Azusa Pacific University, where he earned a master’s degree in college counseling and student development. He is currently a student success advisor at Barstow Community College, where he assists students with onboarding, conducts community outreach, and manages the Promise Program. Prince hopes to obtain his doctoral degree in higher education and return to CSUSB to develop a pipeline to college for youth in the community. Thomas Robles Thomas Robles, ’18 BA communication studies and liberal studies Thomas Robles is a fourth generation Inland Empire resident with a strong sense of pride for this region. Robles has spent the last 14 years working within the city of Colton’s Community Services Department in various roles, from youth program specialist to aquatics manager to library specialist. In addition, Robles is a proud alumnus of San Bernardino Valley College, Cal State San Bernardino and UC Riverside. During his academic journey at SBVC, Robles was elected student government president and then student trustee for the San Bernardino Community College District board of trustees. As a result, he became inspired to seek a career in higher education to make college more accessible for families and students of color within the Inland Empire. Robles hopes to become the future college president of San Bernardino Valley College. His goal is to inspire prospective college students through mentorship, academic support, and equitable programming. He currently sits on the SBVC Foundation Board, where he seeks scholarship opportunities for the students. Robles would like to thank the community for this honorable nomination. He would also like to thank his mother, sister and friends for always supporting him. Connie Sanchez Connie Sanchez Connie Sanchez is currently a student at Cal State San Bernardino. She is passionate about her community and continues to dedicate her time to engage with different areas in the community. She is a youth leader who enjoys leading with love, action, respect and empathy. She enjoys facing challenges and difficulties head-on and it has helped shape her physically, mentally, emotionally and spiritually. She is determined to make an impact and to serve as inspiration for the next generation to create change and leave a lasting legacy. More: 30 Under 30 Awards Eloise Gomez Reyes state assembly community Sandy Castellanos Alicia Echevarria Stephanie Garibo Adrian Hermosillo Leticia Herrera Mendez Tyler Lange Kevon Lee Kimberly Morales Gema Pena Zaragoza Luis Portobanco Derick Prince Thomas Robles Connie Sanchez College of Arts and Letters College of Social and Behavioral Sciences College of Natural Sciences Jack H. Brown College of Business and Public Education More News October 9, 2020 CSUSB students and alumni honored at annual 30 Under 30 event View All News Footer Region CSUSB California State University, San Bernardino 5500 University Parkway San Bernardino, CA 92407 +1 (909) 537-5000 Follow Us CSUSB's Facebook CSUSB's Twitter CSUSB's YouTube CSUSB's Instagram CSUSB's LinkedIn CSUSB's Social Media Column 1 Login myCoyote Login Canvas Blackboard Login Student Email Login Faculty & Staff Email Login CSUSB Drupal Login Of Interest to... Future Students Interests Current Students Interests Faculty & Staff Interests Full-Time Faculty Interests Part-Time Faculty Interests Community & Visitors Interests Alumni & Friends Interests University Partners Interests Military/Veterans Interests Column 2 Employment CSUSB Job Listings - CSUSB Faculty Jobs - CSUSB Career Center - CSUSB Human Resources - CSUSB Student Employment - CSUSB Resources Contact CSUSB Clery Act Annual Safety Reports - CSUSB Title IX Notice - CSUSB Disclosure of Consumer Information - CSUSB Column 3 Campus Services Academic Advising - CSUSB Housing & Residential Life - CSUSB Ombuds Services - CSUSB Parking - CSUSB Police - CSUSB Psychological Counseling - CSUSB Services to Students with Disabilities - CSUSB Student Health Center - CSUSB Transcripts - CSUSB Accessibility Privacy and Security Non-Discrimination Notice Website Copyright/DMCA Policy