Skip to main content Temple University Explore Temple’s Schools and Colleges Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Support Temple Temple University Search Site Search Full Menu Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees President History & Traditions Temple Health News & Media Offices Public Information Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Development Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Libraries Anthropology PhD You are here Home Academics Degrees and Programs Anthropology PhD Apply Request More Info Anthropology PhD Admissions Careers & Opportunities Curriculum Research & Facilities Scholarships & Financial Aid Anthropology PhD Pursue advanced research with the Doctor of Philosophy in Anthropology in the College of Liberal Arts at Temple University. In this 43-credit, highly selective doctoral program, students have opportunities to lead and participate in critical research and fieldwork in Philadelphia, elsewhere in the U.S. or abroad, building the skills necessary to conduct anthropological studies in academic or professional settings. All students in the program complete a set of core courses, which include foundational courses in thematic areas and the history of the discipline. You'll focus your studies and fieldwork in one of the four subfields of anthropology—archaeology, biological anthropology, linguistic anthropology and sociocultural anthropology. You can also choose to specialize in Anthropology of Visual Communication, which draws primarily from linguistic anthropology and sociocultural anthropology. The interdisciplinary nature of the program allows students to incorporate all areas into their studies and research, and our newly restructured program capitalizes on the current trends toward integrative approaches to anthropological problems. You’ll work alongside esteemed faculty members who specialize in multiple research areas including pre-historic and historic archaeology, bio-archaeology, biological anthropology, sociocultural anthropology, linguistic anthropology, visual anthropology and medical anthropology. You’ll have access to Temple’s linguistic and media labs, as well as the Laboratory of Research and Exhibitions, which houses archaeological, biological, ethnological and historical collections from all over the world, as well as the equipment and resources necessary to conduct innovative research in various areas of anthropology. Learn more about research in the Anthropology Department. While many Anthropology PhD students pursue full-time faculty positions in colleges and universities, others pursue academic and non-academic research opportunities or enter policy and administrative positions. Our new courses on professionalization and numerous extra-curricular events, workshops and activities provide training in transferrable skills. Kristina Nazimova Anthropology PhD, CLA ’22 and Winner of an American Association of University Women Dissertation Fellowship "The Department of Anthropology has been one of the most enriching environments in which I have studied. The rigor of its program, the faculty’s commitment to helping me succeed, and the culture of camaraderie among peers has fostered my professional growth as a scholar, educator and writer." Program Format & Curriculum Students may take up to seven years to earn the degree. Most students complete the program on a full-time basis, although some may be able to complete it on a part-time basis. The 43-credit doctoral program comprises core and elective courses, a language examination, doctoral qualifying examinations, and a dissertation. Required courses you may take during the program include the following. Approaches in Archaeology Approaches in Cultural Anthropology Approaches in Linguistic Anthropology Approaches in Physical Anthropology Examples of elective courses include Anthropology of Mass Media; Approaches to Historic Sites in Archaeology; Fieldwork in Ethnography; Medical Anthropology; and Language Socialization and Cultural Reproduction. Learn more about curriculum requirements for the Anthropology PhD. Related Graduate Degrees Africology and African American Studies MA Africology and African American Studies PhD Applied Sociology PSM Anthropology MA Geography and Urban Studies MA Geography and Urban Studies PhD Geographic Information Systems PSM History MA History PhD Liberal Arts MLA Religion MA Religion PhD Related Graduate Certificates Geographic Information Systems Gender, Sexuality and Women’s Studies Documentary Arts and Ethnographic Research Cultural Analytics Our Community The College of Liberal Arts at Temple comprises many disciplines and research areas. Now more than ever, an interdisciplinary liberal arts education is invaluable for your future pursuits. It offers the opportunity to further push your drive to create real change in the world, here at Temple and beyond. In this graduate program, you’ll work closely with diverse faculty members who are highly esteemed in their field and with a curious, passionate community of peers. Tuition & Fees In keeping with Temple’s commitment to access and affordability, this Doctor of Philosophy offers a competitive level of tuition with multiple opportunities for financial support. Tuition rates are set annually by the university and are affected by multiple factors, including program degree level (undergraduate or graduate), course load (full- or part-time), in-state or out-of-state residency, and more. These tuition costs apply to the 2021–2022 academic year. Pennsylvania resident: $966.00 per credit Out-of-state: $1,329.00 per credit Learn more about our tuition and fees. Program Contact For more information about the Anthropology PhD program, contact the following staff member. L. Christie Rockwell is the director of graduate studies and the program contact for the Anthropology PhD. Phone: 215-204-7775 Email: christie.rockwell@temple.edu The following staff members lead the Anthropology Department. Charles Weitz is the department chair. Phone: 215-204-1424 Email: weitz@temple.edu Damien Stankiewicz is the director of undergraduate studies. Email: damien@temple.edu Yvonne Davis is the coordinator. Phone: 215-204-7775 Email: yvonne.davis@temple.edu Jessica Brennan is the administrator. Phone: 215-204-7577 Email: jessica.brennan@temple.edu Student Clubs & Organizations Supplement your Anthropology PhD coursework and enhance your graduate education experience through student clubs and organizations. You’ll meet and network with other students, become involved with the community, and build invaluable skills to help you realize your personal and professional goals. The following clubs and organizations are available to Anthropology PhD students. The Anthropology Graduate Students Association meets monthly to discuss ongoing developments in the department, to plan events, and to share questions, concerns and current work. The Visual Anthropology Society at Temple is a graduate student organization for undergraduate and graduate students interested in visual anthropology, ethnographic film, and the ethnography of media. Study Away Temple’s study away programs offer you the opportunity to spend an academic year, semester or summer abroad. Complete coursework, participate in internships or collaborate in research while immersing yourself in the culture, history and people of your host city. Students in the Anthropology PhD program have the opportunity to study abroad in the medieval desert town of Dhrangadhra, India, where they investigate Indian civilization through an anthropological study of its religious and artistic traditions, ancient and contemporary. Learn more about studying abroad in India. Accreditation Temple University’s departments and programs are accredited by the Middle States Commission on Higher Education. LA-ANTH-PHD Additional Program Information Visit College Site View Program Details Go back to AcademicsMore in Anthropology PhD Admissions Careers & Opportunities Curriculum Research & Facilities Scholarships & Financial Aid Apply Request More Info Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Calendar Policies Social Media TUportal TUmail Accessibility Careers at Temple Safety & Emergency Information Ethics & Compliance Privacy Statement Professional Licensure Disclosures Follow Temple University Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community. Apply Request More Info