Prospective StudentsJSG CommunityAlumni & GivingRecruiters & Companies Facebook Twitter YouTube RSS News Feed About Mission & Vision Leadership Departments & Research Units Holland Family Student Center Offices Career Services Business Services Office Development and Alumni Relations Office of Communications Information Technology Services Office of Broader Impacts of Geoscience Research (BIGR) Contacts Directions & Maps Diversity and Inclusion Quick Facts History Faculty Through Time, In Memoriam Hall of Distinction JSG Workplace Issues Research Research Themes Climate & the Environment Energy Geosciences Marine Geosciences Planetary Sciences & Geobiology Solid Earth & Tectonic Processes Surface & Hydrologic Processes Research Disciplines Programs & Centers Laboratories & Facilities Industry Collaborations Find an Expert Education Undergraduate Advising Admissions Internal Transfers Degrees Offered Jackson Scholars Program Honors Program Financial Support Courses & Catalogs Field Experiences Why Geosciences? TNT 2021 Graduate Advising Admissions Degrees Offered EER Graduate Program Find a Supervisor Financial Support Courses & Catalogs External Grants & Scholarships Graduate Studies Committee Advising & Program Coordination Rankings Student Research Opportunities Student Organizations Writer-in-Residence Services Career Center Geology Library Holland Family Student Center People Distinguished Postdoctoral Fellows Program Find an Expert Scientist Profiles Employment Opportunities Visiting Assistant Professors of Practice in Chemical or Physical Hydrogeology Visiting Assistant Professors of Practice in Structural Geology/Tectonics JSG Community Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Faculty & Research Scientists Postdocs Staff Tuition Rebates for Undergraduates Faculty Through Time, In Memoriam Outreach For K-12 Students For K-12 Teachers For Everyone People News Media Releases Dean’s Desk Blogs Texas Geosciences Science Y’all In the News Scientist Profiles Newsletter 2015 Newsletter 2014 Newsletter PDF Archive Media Contacts Events DeFord Lecture Series Master’s Saturday Heads/Chairs on the Future of Undergraduate Geoscience Education Workshop Summit Materials, PowerPoints and Webcast Archive Background Reading Agenda Graduation Distinguished Lectures Association Meetings GSA 2014 SEG 2012 GSA 2012 2011 Meetings DGS Vehicle Reservation Calendar Submit an Event Skip to main content Close Search Bar Prospective StudentsJSG CommunityAlumni & GivingRecruiters & Companies SearchMake a Gift About Mission & Vision Leadership Departments & Units Offices Contacts Diversity and Inclusion JSG Workplace Issues Research Research Themes Programs & Centers Laboratories & Facilities Industry Collaborations Find an Expert Education Undergraduate Graduate Advising Rankings Student Research Opportunities Student Organizations Writer-in-Residence Services People JSG Directory Find an Expert Scientist Profiles Distinguished Postdoctoral Fellows Program Employment Opportunities Outreach For K-12 Students For K-12 Teachers For Everyone People News Media Releases Dean’s Office Blogs In the News Newsletter Media Contacts Events Events Calendar Lectures & Seminars Association Meetings Summits JSG Graduation Menu Home About Offices Information Technology Services Information Technology Services You can submit tickets for any JSG website or IT service through the IT Help ticket system. Please submit as much information as possible so we can route your issue to the correct people. We will resolve your issue or look into your request as soon as we can. See info below for IT related services. Computer Services Undergraduate Laptop Recommendations for Fall 2021 Below are notebook recommendations for Undergraduate Students entering the Jackson School of Geosciences. Many options are available to meet these recommendations; please read all the information on this page to help ensure your laptop will be most useful during your program. Both PC’s and Mac laptops can be used but some commonly used software (such as ARC) will only run in a Windows environment. However, Mac OS/X operating systems users may obtain and install Windows virtualization environments to run windows only compatible software. Chromebooks, iPads and Tablets may be useful but are not designed to run software required in class. Students that feel comfortable with setting up a virtual Windows environment on Macs may benefit from Virtual Box (free) from Oracle or VM Fusion (additional cost) from VMWare. Hardware Minimum Recommended Processor Intel Core i5 Intel Core i7/i9 Memory (RAM) 16 GB 32 GB Hard Drive 250 GB 500 GB (SSD) Multimedia camera built in camera (audio/video) Video (GPU) Integrated Dedicated/Discrete (2-4 GB) Warranty 3 year warranty Extended warranty with accidental coverage (3-4yrs) Recommended Software Computers must have an active antivirus software installed before connecting to the campus network. Systems running Windows 8 or higher have the built-in Windows Defender. The Available software below requires a UT Eid to download. Software Availabilty Microsoft Office Instructions for access (Free for Students) MATLAB Site license download (Free for Students) UTPrint Download from UTPrint page Anti-Virus Download from ITS Anti-Virus (Free for Students) Arc (ESRI) Runs in Windows environments only Arc Install request: https://www.jsg.utexas.edu/help Computer Backups CrashPlan UT Backup UT Box cloud storage is a campus-wide service that allows faculty, staff, and students at the University of Texas at Austin to use Box cloud-based file sharing for business and academic purposes. Remote Computer Login Remote Desktop Windows Connecting to the UT VPN Software Installing Software – Ivanti Installing Software – Lanrev Email Configuration Setting up user email Service Account Printing Services Printing Via Computer (Windows & Mac) Windows 10 – Installing Printers Windows – Connecting printer when not joined to domain Mac – Connecting Printers Web Services Website Creation & Access Requests JSG provides web publishing services via WordPress. JSG uses a web-based Content Management System (CMS) to make web publishing easier for the JSG community. Since WordPress is web-based, there is no need to install any program to create or edit your website. JSG provides websites for the following groups: Research Groups Research Labs & Projects Student Organizations Request a Website To request a website be created for you group, submit a help ticket with the name of the group and a preferred URL (www.jsg.utexas.edu/[URL]). Once the website has been created, an website admin URL will be send to the requester and content can be loaded by JSG personnel or by the requester. You will login to the admin using your UT EID and password. Website Access Request Your website can have multiple users who can edit the site. To request access for a user submit a help ticket. Be sure to include the user’s full name and UT EID. Researcher & Student Web Profiles JSG researcher and student profiles highlight a researcher’s bio, contact info, research, awards, lectures, photos, web links, etc. These profiles are the main source of contact for each JSG researcher throughout the JSG website. Most contact information is pulled from the UT directory and refreshed nightly. JSG provides profiles for Faculty, Emeritus, Research Scientists, Research Staff, Postdocs and Graduate Students. How do I edit my profile? You can edit your profile by logging on to our Profile Administration Application. If you have a direct administrative staff or student working with you or your group, you can designate them as an editor of your profile. This will allow them to make edits to your profile on your behalf. Editor designations can be requested by submitting an IT Help Ticket (be sure to include the editor’s name and UT EID). Profile Admin URL: https://apps.jsg.utexas.edu/profiles Request a profile All profiles are automatically generated but if you have a unique appointment a profile may not be generated. To request a profile, submit a IT Help Ticket and include your name, UT EID and affiliation type (faculty, emeritus, research scientist, research staff, postdoc or graduate student). Profile questions or problems If you need assistance or need to report a problem, please submit an IT Help Ticket. JSG Events Calendar Using your UT EID, login to the WordPress tool for the Events section of the JSG website: https://www.jsg.utexas.edu/events/wp-admin/ and click on Calendar at the bottom of the left hand navigation bar. (If you aren’t currently registered to add events, submit a help ticket and include your name and UT EID) Enter all the relevant information about the event. Under “Event Title”, only include series, speaker and affiliation, such as “Hydro Brown Bag: Bob Jones, MIT” and do not include the actual title of the talk. Why? This will appear in the calendar view and must be compact. For this reason, the Event Title is capped at 100 characters. Many scientific talk titles, while lovely to read, could be short stories in their own right. If it’s a forum, conference, panel or workshop with multiple speakers, be sure the Event Title field includes the title of the conference and only include speaker names if space permits. Include any additional information—such as the full title of the talk, abstracts, RSVP details, maps, agendas and webcast links—in the Event Description field. Hit Save. Posting Slides on the Digital Signs Login to the AxisTV administration tool at http://146.6.25.134/ (If you aren’t currently registered to post slides, submit a help ticket and include your name and UT EID) Click Import > Image/Video (in left hand navigation bar) Upload a JPEG image of your slide (if you created it in PowerPoint, you can choose Save As and then save it as a JPEG). (A note on aspect ratios: Before 2013, PowerPoint’s default ratio was 4:3, but in 2013, the default became widescreen or 16:9. You want to set PowerPoint’s default to 4:3 because that’s the ratio of the piece of the digital screens on which these slides will be displayed.) Use this naming convention in AxisTV: TalkSeriesMMDDYY (eg., Tech Session031912). Choose Aspect Ratio (typically 4:3). Choose File (locate it on your hard drive) and hit Upload File Now. Hit Next to upload the slide. Schedule the slide. Choose the dates and times to start and end dates. (Be careful to click the round radio button to the left of the start and end times, otherwise the slide will run forever, even if you set an actual end time – unfortunately, it always defaults to the button to the left of “Today, forever”) Set the Pace to 10 seconds. Hit Finished! Click Now Playing > Play Lists (in left hand navigation bar) to confirm that the slide now appears in the rotation. Virtual Computer Lab Geo‐Xen Apps Geo-Xen Client Install Geo-Xen App 7.5 User Instructions Citrix Receiver Troubleshooting Phone Services Office Phones Voicemail Support Polycom Sets Costs About Mission & Vision Leadership Departments & Research Units Holland Family Student Center Offices Career Services Business Services Office Development and Alumni Relations Office of Communications Information Technology Services Office of Broader Impacts of Geoscience Research (BIGR) Contacts Directions & Maps Diversity and Inclusion Quick Facts History JSG Workplace Issues Mailing Address Jackson School of Geosciences 2305 Speedway Stop C1160 Austin, TX 78712-1692 Phone (512) 471-6048 Support JSG Departments & Units Department of Geological Sciences Bureau of Economic Geology Institute for Geophysics Administration & Offices College Leadership Career Services Business Services Development and Alumni Relations Office of Communications Information Technology Office Helpful Links UT Austin UT Direct Emergency Information IT Help JSG Directory JSG Profiles Contact Us Facebook Twitter YouTube RSS News Feed © 2022 Jackson School of Geosciences, The University of Texas at Austin Web Privacy | Web Accessibility Policy | Adobe Reader