Skip to main content Temple University Explore Temple’s Schools and Colleges Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Support Temple Temple University Search Site Search Full Menu Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees President History & Traditions Temple Health News & Media Offices Public Information Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Development Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Libraries Accountancy MAcc You are here Home Academics Degrees and Programs Accountancy MAcc Apply Events Request More Info Accountancy MAcc Admissions Careers & Opportunities Required Courses Scholarships & Financial Aid Master of Accountancy Prepare to become a Certified Public Accountant (CPA) with a Master of Accountancy (MAcc) from Temple University’s Fox School of Business. This accredited full-time cohort program, designed for individuals seeking CPA designation, can be completed in three semesters. Graduates leave the MAcc program equipped for rewarding careers in public accounting and other accounting-related positions, having deepened their industry knowledge, sharpened their communication skills, and developed the ability to conduct and analyze research. Solidify your classroom knowledge and gain the tools to become a successful CPA within one year. Temple’s Master of Accountancy incorporates CPA exam review courses as well as time to sit for the exam. Each semester features content directly aligned with one or more parts of the CPA exam, and all 30 credit hours earned in the program count toward CPA licensure requirements. The MAcc program delivers a curriculum that challenges and motivates high-performing students with courses geared toward career results. Award-winning faculty build on undergraduate accounting coursework while delving into advanced accounting topics in auditing and taxation. The Fox Master of Accountancy curriculum emphasizes business acumen, critical and analytical skills, ethics and integrity standards, and industry expertise. Classes are also designed to impart crucial soft skills to graduate students. Faculty develop students abilities in both written and oral communication, team building, leadership and technology. Outside the classroom, students attend and participate in classes and seminars led by industry professionals exploring current issues and topics relevant in accounting, auditing and taxation. Most MAcc students share a common goal as they strive for job placement with one of the Big Four, national or regional accounting firms. Fox faculty members have strong recruitment relationships across the country and region including with the Big Four accounting firms. This vital network expands student opportunities, guides MAcc students to CPA status during or after they complete the program, and helps them connect to the right job upon graduation. Learn more about the Master of Accountancy, including the most frequently asked questions and answers. Request Information Learn more about the Accountancy MAcc program. Apply Now Ready to apply? Submit your graduate application. Learn More Explore all of the specialized master's programs at Fox. Request Information Apply Learn More Colleen Diehl Assurance Associate, PwC "The professors in the MAcc program really challenge you so that you’re ready to take the CPA exams." Classes & Curriculum Fox's 30-credit Master of Accountancy program delivers an advanced curriculum designed to meet industry standards and prepare students for positions in the demanding field of accounting. All courses take place on Temple's Main Campus, providing students with access to city life and connections to leading organizations. The curriculum comprises three semesters, during which students prepare for all four parts of the CPA Exam over one year. Coursework includes Advanced Auditing, Advanced Studies in Financial Reporting, Advanced Taxation, Colloquium on Current Issues in Accounting Practice, Concepts and Analysis of Financial Statements, and Professional Skills Development. Learn more about the Master of Accountancy program schedule and coursework. Tuition & Fees In keeping with Temple’s commitment to access and affordability, this Master of Accountancy offers a competitive level of tuition with multiple opportunities for financial support. Tuition rates are set annually by the university and are affected by multiple factors, including program degree level (undergraduate or graduate), course load (full- or part-time), in-state or out-of-state residency, and more. These tuition costs apply to the 2021–2022 academic year. Pennsylvania resident: $1,142.00 per credit Out-of-state: $1,142.00 per credit Learn more about our tuition and fees. Program Contact Sheri Risler is the director of the Master of Accountancy program. Phone: 215-204-6482 Email: sheri.risler@temple.edu Cailin DiGiacomo is the assistant director of graduate enrollment management. Phone: 215-204-0314 Email: c.digiacomo@temple.edu Accreditation The Fox School of Business is accredited by the Association to Advance Collegiate Schools of Business (AACSB). The school has maintained AACSB accreditation since 1934. BU-ACCN-MACC Additional Program Information School/College Site View Program Details Go back to AcademicsMore in Accountancy MAcc Admissions Careers & Opportunities Required Courses Scholarships & Financial Aid Apply Events Request More Info Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Calendar Policies Social Media TUportal TUmail Accessibility Careers at Temple Safety & Emergency Information Ethics & Compliance Privacy Statement Professional Licensure Disclosures Follow Temple University Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community. Apply Events Request More Info