Skip to main content iastate.edu Index A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z Directory Maps Safety Sign Ons Menu Digital Access Open Search Bar Search Submit search Main navigation Home About Us Digital Accessibility Lab Resources Accessibility Statement Siteimprove Digital Accessibility Lab Digital Accessibility Lab User Experience, Games, Research and Collaboration The number of students with disabilities entering college is increasing. Many Iowa State students experience daily barriers to their educational goals. Creating barrier free access to hardware and software falls under the broad area of digital accessibility. Digital accessibility is not only the production of course materials, websites and communications in an accessible manner, it is a mindset and related directly to the student experience. Fully experiencing content and materials using assistive technology is essential in supporting this mindset. The Digital Accessibility Lab is a physical space on campus for students with disabilities to work together using assistive technology, and a place for them to try out new technologies that could increase their course engagement. Research The Digital Accessibility Lab is included in several grants campus wide with faculty researchers. For example, the National Science Foundation (NSF) has released its expectations for digital products to be accessible and to include budget in your grant request for this work. Securing grant money is vital to the Iowa State University strategic plan, and including accessibility is necessary for diversity, equity, and inclusion. User Experience and Usability Testing Our team has expertise with many UX process, assistive technology, and design methods. We can design User Interfaces, Websites, Apps, Games, and other digital products, or work with your existing team on best practices for including digital accessibility from the beginning of your project. Location: Durham Center 116 Hours: The lab is open via appointment only. Contact us via email Services Accessibility Audits User Experience Design Usability Testing Games/Gaming/eSports Controller mapping Accessibility Testing Research The lab is included in several grants with faculty researchers for UX/UI, Website, App, and game design and development Technology in the Lab Windows and Mac Laptops, Windows desktops, screen magnifiers, screen reading software, text-to-speech software, speech-to-text software, gaming hardware and software, VR headsets, eyetracking device, wearable keyboards, and switch controls Full list of hardware and software Digital Accessibility Lab 116 Durham 613 Morrill Rd digitalaccess@iastate.edu Social media Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram MS Teams Copyright Information Copyright © Iowa State University of Science and Technology All rights reserved. Legal and Privacy Links Non-discrimination Policy Privacy Policy Digital Access & Accessibility Consumer Information