Utah State University sites use cookies. By continuing to use this site you accept our privacy and cookie policy. I agree Skip to content Apply Visit Give Calendar A-Z Index Directory Libraries QUICK LINKS MyUSU SEARCH Close search Search Utah State University: I want to search All USU sites People Search terms Submit search × Open main menu Close Open search About Close About Who we are Meet Utah State Fast Facts Diversity and Inclusion Leadership History and Traditions Notable Alumni Newsroom Utah State Today Utah State Magazine Pressroom USU Experts Locations Visit Campus Statewide Campuses USU Eastern Maps Cache Valley and Utah Information Contact USU Calendars Directory Employment Giving Admission Close Admission Become an Aggie How to Apply Campus Tours Undergraduate Admissions School of Graduate Studies International Admissions Concurrent Enrollment Financial Aid and Cost Tuition and Fees Financial Aid Scholarships Graduate Funding Registration Academic Calendar Online Catalog Dates and Deadlines Tuition and Payment Register for Classes Transcript Requests After Admission New Student Orientation Parent & Family Resources USU 1010: Connections Deferment Notification of Leave Academics Close Academics Overview Learning at Utah State Colleges and Schools Statewide Campuses USU Online Study Abroad Honors Program Majors and Minors Degree Finder Undergraduate Degrees Graduate Degrees Online Degrees Professional and Technical Education Find Help Advising Academic Support Veterans Resources Center Academic Success Programs Disability Resources Center Career Design Center Resources Academic Calendar Academic Catalog Libraries Graduation Campus Life Close Campus Life Student Experience Experience USU Living on Campus Health and Wellness Safety at Utah State Things to do Get Involved Athletics Recreation Arts and Culture Information Events Calendar Clubs and Organizations Student Affairs Resources Aggie Wellness Inclusion Center Involvement Ready Center for Community Engagement Wellness Ready Research Athletics Extension For You Close For You Prospective Students Current Students Parents Faculty and Staff Donors Alumni & Friends Ask USU Quick Links Close Quick Links Apply Visit Give Calendar A-Z Index Directory Libraries MyUSU Research and Innovation Utah State Aggies create transformational impacts through meaningful research, particularly in space, water, land, air, and quality-of-life questions. Research Facts Utah State is a Carnegie-recognized R1 institution and was named one of the best undergraduate research programs in the nation by the Council for Undergraduate Research in 2021. From sustainability and climate studies to agriculture and business, USU research changes lives around the world. 36 Goldwater Scholars $335.5M Research Funding 50+ Research Institutes and Centers 51 New Inventions in 2020 Renowned Faculty Faculty researchers at Utah State University are recognized nationally and internationally for their expertise. USU is home to more than 50 research programs, centers, and facilities such as ASPIRE, the Utah Water Research Lab, and the Digital Folklore Project. Learn More Research Office Faculty Experts Undergraduate Research Each year, more than 1,000 students engage in undergraduate research with institutional support and over 500 share their research at USU events. As one of the country's top undergraduate research programs, USU is constantly evolving to improve inclusion and excellence of our award-winning student opportunities. Learn More Undergraduate Research Student Stories Technology Development USU researchers are innovators with 51 newly disclosed inventions in 2020, 19 of them by faculty filing for the very first time. USU has received 80 patents in the last five years, continuing a long line of faculty innovations. Learn More Technology Transfer Services Research Near and Far From environmental impacts to unlocking the mysteries of space, USU researchers are changing the world — and beyond. Land, Water, and Air Growth, recreation, water, agriculture, and air quality — these are core values and key struggles for Utah. More than 140 USU faculty are addressing these issues. USU shares this research with our community through the Janet Quinney Lawson Institute for Land, Water and Air and the Research Landscapes initiative. Learn More Institute for Land, Water, and Air Research Landscapes Health and Well-Being More than 50 USU researchers investigate health and well-being, making USU a Utah authority on wellness. In partnership with Regence BlueCross BlueShield of Utah, USU researchers share their findings for living well at Blue Plate Research events. Learn More Blue Plate Research Health and Wellness Stories Space Research In 1959, Utah State University and the Space Dynamics Laboratory started a meteoric rise as a leader in aerospace research and innovation. In that time, USU and SDL have sent more than 430 experiments into space, many of them by students, and achieved space-grant university status. Learn More Space Dynamics Lab Space Research Stories Graduate Studies As one of two flagship research universities in Utah, USU offers more than 130 master’s and doctoral degrees. Multiple graduate programs have ranked within top 100 — some even in the top 50 — programs in the United States, including Audiology, Aerospace, Biological Engineering, Education, and Rehabilitation Counseling. Learn More School of Graduate Studies Graduate Degrees Jade Snyder Echard Graduate student Jade Snyder Echard's research focuses on designing innovative solutions for drinking water and wastewater problems. Idowu Atoloye Can compost affect how many crops are grown? Idowu Atoloye is a post-doctorate research fellow (PDRF) studying soil plants and climate, and his research focuses on organic wheats and how compost can enhance yield in the long term. Innovation Utah State University nurtures innovation and embraces possibility. The university provides an unparalled environment with facilities, services and technology, as well as programs and expertise that stimulate and support the growth of research and technology-based enterprises. Utah Water Research Lab engineers tested a new type of hydrodynamic turbine modeled after Archimedes’ screw. Utah Water Research Laboratory The Utah Water Research Laboratory (UWRL) at Utah State University has been a leader in water and environmental research for over 50 years. It is the oldest and one of the largest university-based water research facilities in the United States and is considered one of the most respected facilities of its kind. The ASPIRE Center plays a critical role in transforming the nation's transportation and electric utility industries. ASPIRE Center The ASPIRE Engineering Research Center focuses on developing new infrastructure that facilitates widespread adoption of electric vehicles. USU’s Space Dynamics Laboratory has been a trusted partner for the government, solving technical challenges faced by the military, science community, and industry for more than 60 years. Space Dynamics Lab The Space Dynamics Laboratory works with the Department of Defense and industry in defending and protecting the nation as well as supporting NASA’s vision to “reveal the unknown for the benefit of humankind.” Research Centers and Institutes Research News Read Story LAND & ENVIRONMENT Poll the Audience: Using Data From Citizen Science to Keep Wild Birds in Flight Read Story BUSINESS & SOCIETY Black Women in Utah: USU UWLP Reports on Status, Experiences Read Story ARTS & HUMANITIES Porscha Doucette Becomes First USU Statewide Peak Summer Research Fellow Read Story SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY Mechanical and Aerospace Ph.D. Candidate, Professor Win 2022 Best Paper Award More Stories Want to learn more about USU? Request Information FOLLOW US USU Facebook USU Twitter USU YouTube USU Instagram USU LinkedIn Old Main Hill, Logan, UT 84322 (435) 797-1000 ABOUT USU Contact Quick Facts News For Media Career EDUCATION Find a Degree Colleges & Schools Graduate School USU Online Statewide Campuses RESOURCES Academic Calendar University Catalog Library Canvas IT Service Desk Quick Links Directory Events Visit Campus Maps Giving Maps & Directions Search USU Campus Safety Jobs Contact Disclaimers Copyright Privacy Accessibility Non-Discrimination Back to top of the page