HOME Make a Gift Clemson Home Students Faculty/Staff Alumni Partners A-Z Index Calendar Campus Maps CU Safety Phonebook Webcams Make a Gift Toggle navigation FACILITIES Facilities Homepage Fike Recreation Center Featuring Swann Fitness Center Douthit Hills Fitness Center Snow Family Outdoor Fitness and Wellness Complex Policies and Procedures Facility Hours Facility Counts Floor Plan FITNESS AND WELLNESS Group Fitness F45 Small Group Training Fitness Assessments Personal Training Wellness Zone INTRAMURAL SPORTS CORE CORE Homepage Register for a Trip Rent Outdoor Equipment Develop Your Skills Request a Custom Trip Apply for a Job Explore Spring Break Trips Explore Winter Break Trips Explore Trips for Incoming Students Contact Us CLUB SPORTS Club Sports Homepage Club Officer Resources Visiting Team Resources Facilities Homepage Fike Recreation Center Featuring Swann Fitness Center Douthit Hills Snow Family Outdoor Fitness and Wellness Complex Policies and Procedures Facility Counts Facility Hours Fike Recreation Center Featuring Swann Fitness Center Originally built in 1930 as the Clemson Field House, Fike Recreation Center is the main fitness building on Clemson's campus. Across its area of 250,000 sq ft., the Fike Recreation Center houses state of the art facilities including: Cardio & Strength Equipment The Swann Fitness Center has approximately 15,000 sq ft. of fitness equipment, including a wide variety of cardio and strength equipment ranging from treadmills and stair climbers to dumbbells and barbells. Patrons must be at least 10 years old to utilize cardio and pin–loaded weight equipment and 15 years old to utilize the free weight equipment. For additional policies and procedures, please visit Campus Recreation's Policies and Procedures. Functional Training Space The concept of functional training is growing in popularity as the movements or exercises mimic our daily tasks so that those tasks may be performed better or efficiently. Functional training can help improve strength, power, speed, flexibility, muscular endurance, cardiovascular fitness, injury prevention, rehabilitation, posture and more. The Functional Training Space is available for open recreation during all facility hours when there is not formal Group Fitness program occurring. To view the class schedule or to register for classes, please refer to the Group Fitness webpage. For additional policies and procedures, please visit Campus Recreation's Policies and Procedures. 1/10 Mile Indoor Track The 1/10 mile indoor track overlooks the main gym courts and provides a climate controlled atmosphere for an indoor walk, jog, or run. The track direction alternates every day in order to prevent negative wear and tear on one side of the body more than the other. Patrons can refer to the posted signage for the day's designated direction. Child strollers are permitted on the track during non-peak hours as designated by Campus Recreation staff. For additional policies and procedures, please visit Campus Recreation's Policies and Procedures. 1/3 Mile Outdoor Track Located along the Upper Intramural fields, the 1/3 Mile Outdoor Track provides an outside paved track. For additional policies and procedures, please visit Campus Recreation Policies and Procedures. 6 Basketball Courts The five main gym courts and the club gym court are available for open recreation on a first-come, first-serve basis as well as reservations. Programmed open recreation for volleyball, indoor soccer, and badminton occurs throughout the week when there are not formal reservations. Patrons may request volleyball, pickleball, indoor soccer, or badminton to be set up on available courts. Additional equipment, including basketballs, volleyballs, and badminton supplies may be checked out at the Welcome Center by members. For information on reserving spaces, please visit the Reservations and Rentals page. For the schedule of programed open recreation activities and for additional policies and procedures, please visit Campus Recreation's Policies and Procedures. 5 Racquetball Courts The 5 Racquetball Courts are available for open recreation use on a first-come, first-serve basis when formal reservations are not occurring. Eye goggles or protective eyewear is highly recommended and is available for checkout by members at the Welcome Center, along with racquets and balls. For additional policies and procedures, please visit Campus Recreation's Policies and Procedures. 2 Group Fitness Studios The Upper and Lower Group Fitness Studios feature a wide variety of fitness classes open to all Campus Recreation members and guests. These classes provide instructed workouts designed for a wide range of skills and abilities. To view the class schedule or to register for classes, please refer to the Group Fitness webpage. In addition to Group Fitness classes held in the Lower Fitness Studio, patrons must utilize this space for open recreation or to play table tennis. Table tennis may be requested for set up at the Welcome Center, and equipment can be checked out to members. For additional policies and procedures, please visit Campus Recreation's Policies and Procedures. Wellness Zone The Wellness Zone located in the lobby of Fike Recreation Center provides resources for improving wellness within the Clemson community. Fun, quick activities and informational seminars provided at the Wellness Zone are designed to target at least one of the eight areas of the wellness wheel: Emotional, Spiritual, Intellectual, Occupational, Physical, Environmental, Financial and Social Wellness. McHugh Natatorium The McHugh Natatorium includes an eight-lane, 25-yard lap pool and a 13.5 foot deep dive well, available for open swim during designate times. For hours of operation, please visit Campus Recreation's Facility Hours page. Aqua Group Fitness classes also take place in the McHugh Natatorium. For more information on classes and class schedules, please check the Group Fitness webpage for details. Campus Recreation also offers Lifeguarding Certification Courses. For the McHugh Natatorium's policies and procedures, please visit Campus Recreation's Policies and Procedures. Sauna/Steam Room The co-ed Sauna and Steam Room, located on the pool deck in the McHugh Natatorium, is open for blocked hours. See our Facility Hours page for details. Appropriate swim and/or workout attire must be worn at all times while utilizing the Sauna or Steam Rooms. For additional policies and procedures, please visit Campus Recreation Policies and Procedures. Climbing Wall & Freedom Climber The Climbing Wall is 30 feet high with 10 top rope anchors and a bouldering area. Open Recreation hours are available during designated times with certified staff to belay for patrons. Please check our Facilities Hours page for details. The Freedom Climber is a rotating climbing wall that is low to the ground and available for use during facility hours. Ask any of our staff members for a tutorial. Climbing shoes, helmets, harnesses, ATC's, and carabineers may be checked out at the Climbing Wall Desk and returned after use. All personal climbing gear must pass inspection by Climbing Wall Staff. Patrons are required to have a guardian if 15 years or younger, and must be at least 18 years old to belay. Youth and adult harnesses are available for check out. Free Belay Clinics are offered throughout the year and are designed for beginners. To register for a clinic, visit our online member portal. For the Climbing Wall's policies and procedures, please visit Campus Recreation's Policies and Procedures. Give us your feedback on the Climbing Wall by clicking the button below! Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) Accessibility An accessible entrance to Fike Recreation Center is located on the north side of the facility with handicap parking spots in the E-01 parking lot (east of the building). Two elevators providing access to various activity spaces and offices within the building, as well as ADA compliant bathrooms and showers. The McHugh Natatorium is equipped with lifts into the lap pool and diving well. ADA compliant stairs are available for the lap pool. The indoor track is accessible near the McHugh Natatorium on the main entry level of the facility. The Multipurpose Room located on the entry level of the Swann Fitness Center features several ADA friendly and accessible pieces of fitness equipment. Swann Fitness Center also includes an upper body cycle fitness piece with removable seat on the 2nd floor overlooking the pool. The Sauna and Steam Room, located on the pool deck in the McHugh Natatorium, are available during blocked hours. See our Facilities Hours page for details. Appropriate swim and/or workout attire must be worn at all times while utilizing the Sauna or Steam Rooms. Check out our Online Portal *Clemson students, faculty, and staff should use their Clemson username and iROAR password to login to applications on the Online Store. For instructions on how to login or create a new account click here. For Fike Recreation Center's hours of operation, please visit Campus Recreation's Facility Hours page. All memberships can be purchased at the Welcome Center desk in the lobby of Fike Recreation Center. CONTACT DIVISION OF STUDENT AFFAIRS 202 Sikes Hall, Clemson, SC Copyright 2020 Webmaster