Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu College of Health Sciences About Undergraduate Graduate Certificates & Continuing Ed Students Research Centers & Institutes News & Events Contact Us Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact Undergraduate Dietetics About Admissions Mission Curriculum Resources FAQ Exercise, Sport & Movement Sciences Health Sciences Healthcare Leadership Physical Education Teacher Education Sport Coaching Medical Assisting (Minor) Nutrition, Health & Wellness (Minor) Accelerated BS to MS Physical Education (PHED) Activity Courses Take Action Find a Program that Drives You Meet our Faculty Schedule an Advising Appointment Contact Us Follow Us Online InstagramFacebooktwitterYoutubeLinkedn Home College of Health Sciences Undergraduate Dietetics Curriculum Curriculum Our curriculum provides foundation, knowledge and skills in the areas of communications, physical and biological sciences, social sciences, research, food, nutrition, management and health care systems. Upon graduating from our program, you are competent in your ability to effectively communicate, apply scientific methods and the nutrition care process, and to use tools of professional management. All program graduates who complete the program requirements with a cumulative GPA of 2.75 receive an ACEND- Verification Statement and are eligible to apply for a supervised practice program (dietetic internship). However, we recommend that students maintain a minimum GPA of 3.25 in order to be competitive for placement in a dietetic internship program. Dietetic internship graduates are eligible to complete the national registration examination to become a registered dietitian nutritionist (RDN). All program graduates who receive an ACEND Verification Statement are eligible to take the Dietetic Technician Registration examination. Successful completion of this examination results in the NDTR (Nutrition and Dietetics Technician Registered) credential. If you choose not to apply for a dietetic internship appointment, you'll have varied career options. You can select careers in extension services, business, healthcare and education. You will also be prepared to apply for graduate/professional post-baccalaureate programs. You must make entry into the D & D Digital Academy of Nutrition and Dietetics Internship Matching and complete the online internship application process through DICAS . Check the D & D site for the exact deadline date. More information about the DICAS process and D & D digital matching may be obtained from your undergraduate didactic director. The dietetics concentration is accredited as a didactic program in dietetics (DPD) by: Accreditation Council for Education of the Academy of Nutrition and Dietetics (ACEND) 120 South Riverside Plaza, Suite 2000 Chicago, IL 60606 800-877-1600 ext. 5400 The University of Memphis Didactic Program in Dietetics (DPD) program has been granted full accreditation by ACEND through 2023 For additional dietetics degree and program curriculum information: Dietetics Degree Sheet (subject to change) Dietetics Fact Sheet Course Prerequisites The DPD Program Course Work Courses Offered by Semester In addition to tuition, book and laboratory fees, students enrolled in NUTR 4605: Internship in Nutrition are required to: complete a background check through PreCheck at the approximate cost of $50. be up-to-date on immunizations. have a negative result on a TB skin test. have completed a basic physical exam. carry your own student liability insurance policy (approximately $30 through the Academy of Nutrition and Dietetics) prior to entering your assigned facility for clinical observation. You will also participate in a 6-week intensive hands-on culinary medicine training program as a part of your capstone experience. This program costs approximately $100 per student and is the student's responsibility. For a complete listing policies and procedures- please view the student handbook. Additional costs are involved with the Food Science courses, but are clearly outlined in the syllabi of the respective courses. Effective January 1, 2024, the Commission on Dietetic Registration (CDR) will require a minimum of a master’s degree to be eligible to take the credentialing exam to become a registered dietitian nutritionist (RDN). In order to be approved for registration examination eligibility with a bachelor’s degree, an individual must meet all eligibility requirements and be submitted into CDR's Registration Eligibility Processing System (REPS) before 12:00 midnight Central Time, December 31, 2023. For more information about this requirement visit CDR's website: cdrnet.org/graduatedegree. In addition, CDR requires that individuals complete coursework and supervised practice in program(s) accredited by the Accreditation Council for Education in Nutrition and Dietetics (ACEND). Graduates who successfully complete the ACEND-accredited DPD program at the University of Memphis are eligible to apply to an ACEND-accredited supervised practice program. In most states, graduates also must obtain licensure or certification to practice. For more information about state licensure requirements click here. For more information about educational pathways to become a RDN click here. Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 9/21/21 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.