Skip to Main Content HBS Home About Academic Programs Alumni Faculty & Research Baker Library Giving Harvard Business Review Initiatives News Recruit Map / Directions Faculty & Research Faculty Research Featured Topics Academic Units …→ Harvard Business School→ Faculty & Research→ Faculty Faculty Positions Yusaku Takeda Doctoral Student Doctoral Student Read more Yusaku Takeda is a Ph.D. candidate in business administration jointly offered by Harvard Business School and Graduate School of Arts and Sciences. He will be joining Gies College of Business at the University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign as an Assistant Professor in Summer 2022. Yusaku's research touches on areas at the intersection of organizational theory, economic sociology, and strategic management. As a cross-level theorist, his work focuses on firm evolution, organizational adaptation, and strategic change in changing institutional, ideological, and technological environments. He has examined (1) how organizations and their actions, such as innovation adoption, may exacerbate, reproduce, or under certain circumstances, mitigate ideologies, biases, and inequality, and (2) how such mechanisms are tied to organizations’ market-oriented strategic behavior. Yusaku uses qualitative and mixed methods to analyze archival data, interviews, and surveys. Yusaku’s research has been recognized as the winner of the Best Student Paper Award and the runner-up for the Best International Paper Award from the Organization and Management Theory (OMT) Division of the Academy of Management (2020). He has also been named among the finalists for the Best Conference Paper Prize and the Best Conference PhD Paper Prize by Strategic Management Society (2020). He is also the recipient of the Funai Overseas Scholarship from the Funai Foundation for Information Technology—its first recipient in management and organizational studies. Yusaku earned a B.A. with honors from the College of Social Studies at Wesleyan University as a Freeman scholar in 2014, studying political philosophy, government, economics, and history. Before joining HBS, he worked as a research assistant at Hitotsubashi University Business School in Tokyo and as an IT consultant in NYC. He holds a third-degree black belt (Sandan) in Judo, teaches at a local Judo club, and won Connecticut-state and New England championships. Less +1 →Send Email Contact Information Send Email Publications Awards & Honors Journal Articles Journal Articles Nonaka, Ikujiro, Ayano Hirose, and Yusaku Takeda. "'Meso'-Foundations of Dynamic Capabilities: Team-Level Synthesis and Distributed Leadership as the Source of Dynamic Creativity." Global Strategy Journal 6, no. 3 (August 2016): 168–182. View Details All Publications Yusaku Takeda is a Ph.D. candidate in business administration jointly offered by Harvard Business School and Graduate School of Arts and Sciences. He will be joining Gies College of Business at the University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign as an Assistant Professor in Summer 2022. Yusaku's research touches on areas at the intersection of organizational theory, economic sociology, and strategic management. As a cross-level theorist, his work focuses on firm evolution, organizational adaptation, and strategic change in changing institutional, ideological, and technological environments. He has examined (1) how organizations and their actions, such as innovation adoption, may exacerbate, reproduce, or under certain circumstances, mitigate ideologies, biases, and inequality, and (2) how such mechanisms are tied to organizations’ market-oriented strategic behavior. Yusaku uses qualitative and mixed methods to analyze archival data, interviews, and surveys. Yusaku’s research has been recognized as the winner of the Best Student Paper Award and the runner-up for the Best International Paper Award from the Organization and Management Theory (OMT) Division of the Academy of Management (2020). He has also been named among the finalists for the Best Conference Paper Prize and the Best Conference PhD Paper Prize by Strategic Management Society (2020). He is also the recipient of the Funai Overseas Scholarship from the Funai Foundation for Information Technology—its first recipient in management and organizational studies. Yusaku earned a B.A. with honors from the College of Social Studies at Wesleyan University as a Freeman scholar in 2014, studying political philosophy, government, economics, and history. Before joining HBS, he worked as a research assistant at Hitotsubashi University Business School in Tokyo and as an IT consultant in NYC. He holds a third-degree black belt (Sandan) in Judo, teaches at a local Judo club, and won Connecticut-state and New England championships. Journal Articles Nonaka, Ikujiro, Ayano Hirose, and Yusaku Takeda. "'Meso'-Foundations of Dynamic Capabilities: Team-Level Synthesis and Distributed Leadership as the Source of Dynamic Creativity." Global Strategy Journal 6, no. 3 (August 2016): 168–182. View Details Awards & Honors Recipient of the Funai Overseas Scholarship from the Funai Foundation for Information Technology for 2016-2018. This was the first Funai scholarship given for the subject of business administration. Winner of the 2020 Best Student Paper Award from the Organization and Management Theory Division of the Academy of Management for “Enduring Effects of Nationalistic Ideology on Strategy Formation Process: The Case of Nippon Gakki 1938-1960.” Runner up for the 2020 Best International Paper Award from the Organization and Management Theory Division of the Academy of Management for “Enduring Effects of Nationalistic Ideology on Strategy Formation Process: The Case of Nippon Gakki 1938-1960.” Finalist for the 2020 Strategic Management Society Best Conference Paper Prize for ”Frame Evolution: Temporal Dynamics of Cognitive Frame, Organizational Capability, and Technology Lifecycle at Fujifilm 1985–2018.” Finalist for the 2020 Strategic Management Society Annual Conference PhD Paper Prize for “Frame Evolution: Temporal Dynamics of Cognitive Frame, Organizational Capability, and Technology Lifecycle at Fujifilm 1985–2018.” Selected as an Outstanding Reviewer by the Managerial and Organizational Cognition Division of the Academy of Management in 2021. Additional Information Personal Website Twitter(@tukasuy) Curriculum Vitae Area of Study Management Areas of Interest corporate values/value systems identity innovation organizational change and transformation Additional Topics international business knowledge management leadership strategy teams Geographies Japan United States Follow on Twitter Additional Information Personal Website Twitter(@tukasuy) Curriculum Vitae Area of Study Management Areas of Interest corporate values/value systems identity innovation organizational change and transformation More Additional Topics international business knowledge management leadership strategy teams Geographies Japan United States Less Tweets ǁ Harvard Business School Soldiers Field Boston, MA 02163 →Map & Directions →More Contact Information Make a Gift Site Map Jobs Harvard University Trademarks Policies Digital Accessibility Copyright © President & Fellows of Harvard College