Skip to main content Information For: Current Students Alumni Harvard Undergraduates Educators Recruiters Media Apply Give to HGSE Search Apply for Degree Programs Apply for Professional Education Donate Give back to HGSE and support the next generation of passionate educators and innovative leaders. Keywords Close Menu Degree Programs Professional Education Faculty & Research Usable Knowledge Keywords About HGSE About the Dean Dean's Welcome Messages from the Dean Commentary and Media Dean's Office History of HGSE Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Our Impact Campus and Facilities Office Directory Virtual Tour Gutman Conference Center Reservation Request Form Capacities and Cost Floor Plan Catering Policies Audio Visual Directions, Parking, and Hotels Map of HGSE Directions to HGSE History of HGSE Buildings Faculty & Staff Directory Work at HGSE Title IX Information Doctoral Degree Programs Doctor of Education Leadership Doctor of Philosophy in Education Brochures Academic Calendar Academic Catalog Doctoral Viewbook Master's Degree Program Master's in Education Programs Education Leadership, Organizations, and Entrepreneurship Education Policy and Analysis Human Development and Education Learning Design, Innovation, and Technology Teaching and Teacher Leadership Concentrations Arts and Learning Early Childhood Global, International, and Comparative Education Higher Education Identity, Power, and Justice in Education Literacy and Languages A Personalized Approach Online Master's in Education Leadership Foundations Brochures Academic Catalog Academic Calendar Academic Year 2020-22 Programs Professional Education About Us Programs Early Childhood K-12 Higher Education Online Programs For Organizations Group and Team Enrollment Custom Programs Admissions Payment & Tuition Assistance Refunds & Withdrawals Policies and Accessibility Campus Experience On-Campus Program Health and Safety Policies FAQs Events Contact Faculty & Research Faculty Directory Centers, Projects and Initiatives Faculty Recruitment Faculty Experts Admissions Introduce Yourself Explore Find the Right Program Brochures Life at HGSE Connect Apply Refer a Candidate Frequently Asked Questions Financial Aid HGSE & Harvard University Consumer Information Tuition & Costs Applying for Aid Incoming Students Incoming International Students Continuing Students Scholarships, Fellowships & Grants Need-Based Grant Awards HGSE Fellowships Additional Fellowships External Fellowships Student Loans Student Work International Students International Applicant FAQ Funding Sources Students with Families Financial Aid Appeals Presentations & Publications Budgeting & Financial Literacy Budget Calculator Registrar News & Events Harvard Edcast Education Now Askwith Education Forum Upcoming Events Submit an Event Usable Knowledge Ed. Magazine Harvard Education Publishing Group Information for Media Education Now Usable Knowledge Usable Knowledge Harvard EdCast Ed. Magazine HGSE Centennial Community Learning Beyond the Classroom Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Organizations and Initiatives Community Events and Action Resources Teaching and Learning Gutman Library Services Alumni Services Collections Special Collections Request for Library Purchase Library Hours Websites for Educators About the Library Facilities & Equipment Contact Information Coronavirus Response Information Directory Calendar Alumni Network & Connect Get Involved Learn & Grow Benefits & Services my.harvard Student Handbook Introduction Welcome to HGSE Preface Commitment to Diversity Part 1: Enrollment Policies Academic Programs and Affiliations Registration and Enrollment Policies Tuition and Fees Financial Aid Student Health Insurance Grading Part 2: Student Supports Advising HGSE Supports University Supports Campus Safety and Security Part 3: Program Policies Academic Governance Doctor of Education (Ed.D.) Program Policies Doctor of Philosophy in Education (Ph.D.) Program Policies Doctor of Education Leadership (Ed.L.D.) Program Policies Master of Education (Ed.M.) Program Policies Part 4: Academic Integrity and Standards of Conduct Resolution on Rights and Responsibilities Academic Standards and Integrity Standards of Conduct in the Harvard Community Committee on Rights and Responsibilities Policies on Harassment and Discrimination Policy on Consensual Romantic Relationships Policy on Physical Violence Policy on Misrepresentation of Status Policy on Illicit Substances Policy on Hazing Policy on Threats Part 5: Copyright and Publishing Policies Copyright Disclosure Use of the Harvard Name Information For Current Students Alumni Harvard Undergraduates Educators Recruiters Media Connect with HGSE Facebook Twitter Linked In LinkedIn Symbols Created with Sketch. Instagram Professional Education Linked In Symbols Created with Sketch. Professional Development for Education Organizations Contact Us Professional Education at the Harvard Graduate School of Education (HGSE) collaborates with a wide range of organizations in the education sector. Our programs are designed to help you build a change-ready culture to deliver maximum impact on your organization. Working in consultation with our expert faculty and practitioners, we serve as a strategic thought-partner for your transformation journey and deliver a tailored professional development plan that fits your needs and goals through custom-built professional development engagements, a robust set of open-enrollment programs, or a mix of both. We offer professional development programs designed for a variety of educational contexts and roles across early education, K12, and higher education sectors and welcome the opportunity to collaborate with you on a world-class learning experience for your educators. Professional Development For Groups and Teams Educators benefit from opportunities to work together, sharing their ideas, testing hypotheses, and supporting one another’s learning. Enrolling a group of educators or a team from your organization in the same program(s) as part of your organizational strategic plan can have a transformative impact on the long-term success of your organization. Through needs assessment and joint planning, HGSE Professional Education is a thought partner and resource for education institutions in supporting their ongoing efforts for improving opportunities and outcomes for stakeholders. Learn More → Custom Programs Our team collaborates with your organization to co-create learning experiences directly linked to your unique problems of practice and deliver them through a range of virtual, blended, and in-person formats. With a curriculum tailored to your needs, we aim to support your most pressing professional learning goals at the most convenient time and location and in the most effective format. Learn More → Other Collaborations Professional Education also joins forces with other types of organizations. We form learning alliances with professional organizations such as the International Baccalaureate (IB) and National Partnership for Education Access (NPEA) to support their constituents. We collaborate with Harvard Clubs, foundations, donors, and other organizations to develop meaningful professional learning initiatives to support and advance their mission in serving educators and under-served communities. Why Collaborate With Us? Transformative Adult Learning Experiences We aim to transform the way educators approach and solve problems, so they develop the skills and mindsets needed to learn and teach in a changing world. Renowned Faculty Our HGSE faculty bring their research and years of experience in the field to each program and consistently deliver results-oriented learning experiences designed to address the real-world challenges educators face. Cutting Edge Teaching Methodologies We incorporate the latest understanding of effective teaching and learning into the design and delivery of every program, so our learners not only gain the strategies, tools, and insights to solve their most challenging problems, but also have the learner experience of an effective, inclusive learning environment. Actionable Learning Implementation of the course ideas in participants’ own settings is an integral component of all programs. Whether it is a curriculum unit, a change initiative, or a leadership framework, learners will develop actionable insights that can immediately be put into practice in their home contexts. Global Community and Peer Feedback Our programs draw people from around the world. Peer connection and feedback is an embedded component in many of our programs. Participants’ learning is enriched by being exposed to discussions and dialogues with educators from a wide range of contexts and cultures. Shared Understanding and Frameworks Participants engage in a shared and powerful learning experience with one another and with our faculty. They return speaking the same language and are better equipped to communicate new ideas within their organizations. Interested? Get in touch. In this section Professional Education About Us Programs Early Childhood K-12 Higher Education Online Programs For Organizations Group and Team Enrollment Custom Programs Admissions Payment & Tuition Assistance Refunds & Withdrawals Policies and Accessibility Campus Experience On-Campus Program Health and Safety Policies FAQs Events Contact Find a Program Connect with Professional Education Linked In Symbols Created with Sketch. Professional Education Professional Education About Us Programs Early Childhood K-12 Higher Education Online Programs For Organizations Group and Team Enrollment Custom Programs Admissions Payment & Tuition Assistance Refunds & Withdrawals Policies and Accessibility Campus Experience On-Campus Program Health and Safety Policies FAQs Events Contact Connect With Us hgse_profed ProfessionalEducationHGSE LinkedIn “In high-poverty schools that were remote for more than half of 2021, the loss was about half of a school year’s wo… https://t.co/2F2Onsda68 May 19 After the intense pressures of COVID, more than a quarter of superintendents say they plan to resign. A veteran sup… https://t.co/Kr8r2NB2XP May 13 Learn more about HGSE Professional Education offerings Sign up to receive updates Professional Education Harvard Graduate School of Education 13 Appian Way, Longfellow Hall, Fifth Floor Cambridge, MA 02138 ppe@gse.harvard.edu Domestic: 800-545-1849 International: +01-617-496-9139 Fax: 617-496-8051 Connect with Professional Education Linked In Symbols Created with Sketch. Find a Program Artboard 1 13 Appian Way | Cambridge, MA 02138 Centennial Contact Us Directory Directions Harvard University ©2022 President and Fellows of Harvard College Linked In Symbols Created with Sketch. Youtube RSS Podcast HGSE Publishing Policies & Disclaimers Digital Accessibility Policy Privacy Policy Trademark Notice