Skip to main content Restrict my search to University Marketing and Communications Submit Close Login to AccessUH Give to UH Search University Marketing and Communications Meet the Team Departments Marketing Brand Management, Licensing & Trademarks Creative Services Web Marketing & User Experience Communication Media Relations Digital Production Social Media Guidelines & Policies Requests Resources Publications UH Home University Marketing and Communications Guidelines & Policies Filming at UH Guidelines & Policies Bulk Email Policies & Procedure Brand Guidelines Brand Management, Licensing & Trademarks Policies Editorial Style Guide Email Signature Guidelines Filming at UH News-related Filming and Photography Non-news and Commercial Filming Student Film Projects UH Internal Film Projects Inclusive Language Guide Mobile App Guidelines News Media Policy Paid Online Media Photo Release Guidelines Push Notifications Guidelines Social Media Policy Social Media Profile Guidelines Statements UH Major Awards Announcement Guidelines Web Accessibility Standards Web Best Practices Web Style Guidelines Filming at UH Personal photos and video may be taken by students, parents, faculty, staff, alumni and other campus visitors for personal, non-commercial purposes. On-campus photography and videography must be consistent with UH policy and not interfere with the ongoing operations of the University. UH accommodates reasonable requests for journalistic, news-related, non-commercial shooting, but reserves the right to deny permission when the request runs contrary to University policies, especially those that ensure student privacy. UH restricts the use of its land or buildings for commercial filming. Express permission is required and requests will be considered on a limited, case-by-case basis submitted at least 30 days prior to shooting and in coordination with a sponsoring division, college or other unit. News-Related Filming and Photography News media may shoot news photography in outdoor, public, non-restricted spaces on campus. As a courtesy, news media are asked to notify a media relations representative when news-related shoots will occur in any of these areas on campus. Permission is required to shoot news-related images in all indoor spaces, including the library, classrooms, laboratories, residential, dining and athletics facilities. More information on requesting news-related photography and videography » Non-News and Commercial Filming University of Houston prohibits the use of its land and buildings for commercial filming. However, the Division of Marketing and Communications will consider specific requests involving photography or videography in television shows, movies, documentaries or educational-related projects related to UH subject matter. Express permission is required and all requests must be submitted at least 30 days prior to projected shoot date. All commercial film shoot requests will be carried out in coordination with a sponsoring UH department, college, division or other established unit. More information on requesting commercial film shoots » Student Filming Filming on the UH campus or in UH-owned or operated facilities for academic purposes is limited only to UH students, staff and faculty and others attending UH academic programs, UH sponsored programs and other programs that occur on UH’s campus and for which photography or videography is part of the program. UH students may film if their project is to fulfill academic credit or is the requirement of a class project. More information on student filming » Internal UH Projects UH divisions, departments, colleges and other established units of the University of Houston are permitted to shoot video or contract video services for the purpose of video production related to the department, college or division. Certain procedures and guidelines must be followed. More information on internal UH film projects » Guidelines and Information The following guidelines are applicable to all film shoots on campus: Filming must not be disruptive and must be done in accordance with all University policy. The project must not create a safety hazard for anyone involved in the project or to the campus community. Prior permission is required for all non-news and commercial film shoots. Indoor shooting at UH is prohibited without permission from the University. If applicable, faculty members with responsibility for the space, such as labs, classrooms or clinical research areas, must also provide approval. Appropriate releases are required for all individuals appearing on-camera. Various fees may be incurred during film shoots requiring University services, including use of certain facilities and, possibly, security. Facsimile weapons, pyrotechnics, explosives, amplified sound, sound or visual effects and other props that would cause alarm to the campus community are prohibited. Commercial works that include the University’s name, logos or other trademarked images need to be granted a license from the University for use of trademarks. Members of the University Marketing and Communications staff are not available to scout locations for non-news, internal or student video shoots. University of Houston Houston, Texas 77204 (713) 743-2255 A–Z Index Academic Calendar Campus Carry Policy Campus Map Career Opportunities Directory Emergency Information Get Help Human Resources Library Mental Health Resources Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Office of the President Parking Report Copyright Infringement Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness Open Records/Public Information Act Texas Veterans Portal Tuition & Fees UH System Virtual Tour ©2022 University of Houston. All rights reserved. Report a problem with this page Texas.gov Texas Homeland Security TRAIL Fraud Reporting Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Linking Notice Privacy Notice Open Records/Public Information Act Institutional Résumé Required Reports Electronic & Information Resources Accessibility Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness University Policies