Skip to main content University of Pennsylvania School of Arts & Sciences College of Arts & Sciences Graduate Division College of Liberal and Professional Studies Department of Earth & Environmental Earth and Environmental Sciences Toggle navigation Main navigation About People Faculty Lecturers and Visiting Scholars Professors Emeriti Academic and Research Personnel Postdoctoral Fellows Administrative and Support Staff PhD Students Alumni Undergraduate Majors Minors Declaring a Major/Minor EASC and ENVS Major Courses Transfer Credit Undergraduate Research Penn Geology Society Undergraduate Advisory Board FAQs Graduate Doctoral Program Professional Masters Programs Courses Diversity Statement on Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Climate, Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Committee (CDEIC) Additional Diversity Resources Research Dynamics & Structure of Earth Materials Ocean, Atmosphere & Climate Biogeochemistry & Global Environmental Change Paleobiology & Geobiology The Water Center Research Facilities News Events Annual Geobiology Symposium EES Seminar Series Past Events Resources Contact Contact The Water Center Search Earth and Environmental Science Earth and Environmental Science Our students learn from world-class faculty, recognized through numerous awards, leadership positions and editorial responsibilities. The Delaware River The Water Center is developing a roadmap for policymakers to improve water quality in the 27-mile stretch of the Delaware River from Philadelphia and Camden to Chester. This project is foundational to achieving a primary contact recreational designation, so that communities along this part of the river can more fully enjoy their local natural water resources. Soils Through local field trips to various sites, students in Prof. Plante’s GEOL411 (Intro to Soil Science) and GEOL611 (Field Study of Soils) courses use exposed soil pits to observe, measure and characterize soil properties in the field to taxonomically classify soils and assess their suitability to various land uses. Metagabbro from Italy This originally intrusive rock from the crust-mantle boundary acquired its current appearance many millions of years later during formation of the Alps. Studying the past and the present of the Earth, including interactions among the non-living environment, humans and other forms of life, to inform responsible decisions about the future. Educational Programs Undergraduate Two undergraduate majors in Earth Science and in Environmental Studies equip our students with thorough understanding of nature and environmental issues through classroom education combined with practical learning in the lab and the field. Learn More Professional Masters Two Professional Masters programs in Environmental Studies and in Applied Geosciences prepare full or part-time students to become experts in managing complex environmental problems. Learn More PhD A PhD program in Earth and Environmental Science enables students to become successful independent researchers in academia or non-academic settings. Learn More Research Research done by our faculty, postdoctoral scientists and students focuses on a wide variety of the Earth system’s non-living and living components to increase the understanding of how our planet works and responds to perturbations, such as the global environmental change brought about by human activities. Learn More Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Our guiding principle is to embrace all dimensions of human diversity, both because it is morally just and because fostering diversity, equity and inclusion enhances scientific creativity and is key to achieving an environmentally sustainable future. Learn More The Water Center Housed in the Earth and Environmental Science Department, The Water Center combines water science with policy innovation to develop integrated new strategies for solutions to the most challenging urban water problems. The Water Center homepage can be found here - https://watercenter.sas.upenn.edu/. News Congratulations to our EES 2022 Graduates! May 17, 2022 Congratulations to our EES 2022 Graduates! The Earth and Environmental Science Department would like to highlight some of…Read More Climate Scientist Michael E. Mann to Join Penn Faculty March 16, 2022 Environmental scientist Michael E. Mann will be joining the Penn faculty as of September 1, 2022 as a Presidential…Read More Congratulations to Dr. Joseph S. Francisco, 2022 Willard Gibbs Medal Recipient! January 24, 2022 Dr. Joseph S. Francisco, President’s Distinguished Professor of Earth and Environmental Sciences and of Chemistry, has been…Read More EES Ph.D. Student Sophie Silver Awarded Ahuja Family Fellowship Endowment January 21, 2022 Earth and Environmental Science Ph.D. student Sophie Silver has been announced the recipient of the Ahuja Family Fellowship…Read More 2022 MidAtlantic Geobiology Symposium January 18, 2022 We announce the 2022 MidAtlantic Geobiology Symposium, to be held on Friday February 25th. We will again hold this meeting…Read More UAB Coffee Chat November 4, 2021 The Undergraduate Advisory Board (UAB) recently held a Coffee Chat in the Hayden Hall lobby. There was a fantastic turnout…Read More UAB Succulents and Sweets Event! October 21, 2021 Congratulations to the EES Undergraduate Advisory Board who hosted a Succulents and Sweets event earlier this month! It was…Read More Recording Link for EES Visiting Speaker - Dr. Michael Mann October 4, 2021 Please find the recording from Dr. Michael Mann's EES Seminar Series here. Dr. Michael Mann Distinguished Professor of…Read More Ph.D. Student Jonas Toupal Featured in 2021 G&H Newsletter September 29, 2021 Earth and Environmental Science's Ph.D. student Jonas Toupal has been featured in The Geological Society of America's…Read More Recording Link for EES Visiting Speaker - Dr. Chen Zhu September 28, 2021 If you would like access to the recording link for Dr. Chen Zhu's recent EES Seminar Series, please contact Nicholas Crivaro…Read More More News Events FriFeb 242023 Geobiology Symposium Feb 24, 2023 at 10:00am The 30th Mid-Atlantic Geobiology Symposium is tentatively scheduled for the last Friday in February 2023. Further information will become available in December 2022. A short historical account of the Geobiology… Geobiology Symposium View Past Events View Past Events Donate Subscribe to our mailing list Useful Links The Water Center LPS Master of Environmental Studies Program Contact Us Department of Earth and Environmental Science University of Pennsylvania 251 Hayden Hall 240 South 33rd Street Philadelphia, PA 19104-6316 Map & Directions earth@sas.upenn.edu 215-898-5724 Brenda B. Casper Department Chair David L. Goldsby Graduate Chair Alain F. Plante Undergraduate Chair College of Arts & Sciences Graduate Division College of Liberal & Professional Studies Copyright © 2022 The Trustees of the University of Pennsylvania Report Accessibility Issues and Get Help Penn Weblogin