We use cookies to make your website experience better. To learn about how we keep your information safe, view our Privacy Policy. Accept Safer Return to Campus Masks Strongly Recommended. Notification of Potential Workplace Exposure. Skip To Main Content Popular Searches × About Us Academics News 1 2 3 Program Development The College of Professional and Global Education offers a diverse array of continuing education and certificate programs to enhance your career skill set. Find Programs Open University Open University allows individuals not currently admitted to Cal Poly Pomona to enroll in undergraduate and graduate level courses. Apply for Open University Courses International Programs Learn more about The American Semester Program, The Global Education Institute, The International Center, and Study Abroad Check out our International Programs Previous Next College of Professional and Global Education Professional Development The College of Professional and Global Education offers a diverse array of continuing education and certificate programs to enhance your career skill set. Find Programs Master Degrees The College of Professional and Global Education offers Master's Degrees that are designed for the working professional. Select your Masters Open University Through Open University, people not currently admitted to Cal Poly Pomona may enroll in undergraduate and graduate-level classes. Registration is provided on a space-available basis. Apply for Open University Global Campus Global Campus at the College of Professional and Global Education offers programs for international students, scholars, faculty exchange, and study abroad. Global Campus Bon Voyage Dean Erik Rolland The College of Professional and Global Education (CPGE), would like to thank Dr. Erik Rolland for his impactful leadership and vision, that guided our college to our new name. We extend a heartfelt thanks and appreciation for his work and leadership over these past two years, and we wish him continued success as he embarks on his new journey starting July 1, 2022! College of Professional and Global Education News The Office of Study Abroad Launches Newly Redesigned Website Mar 10, 2021 We are reaching out to let you know that the Offic... The Office of Study Abroad Launches Newly Redesigned Website The College of the Extended University has released it's 2019- 20 Annual Report Sep 22, 2020 The College of the Extended University is pleased... The College of the Extended University has released it's 2019- 20 Annual Report The Office of Inclusive Excellence Launches New Guide Jun 30, 2020 In support of the Community Reflection on recent i... The Office of Inclusive Excellence Launches New Guide CPP Launches the Inclusive Excellence Council Jun 18, 2020 Cal Poly Pomona Inclusive Excellence is committed... CPP Launches the Inclusive Excellence Council See All News Message from Dr. Soraya Coley Cal Poly Pomona President Dr. Soraya Coley's remark on new name change for the College of Professional and Global Education Request for information 
			CEU Footer
		 CEU Footer 3801 W. Temple Ave. Bldg 220C-140 Pomona CA 91768 https://www.cpp.edu/cpge Phone: 909-869-2288 Email : CPGEinfo@cpp.edu Office Hours: Monday – Friday 8:00 AM to 5:00 PM Quick Links: Home About Us Contacts Follow Us 3801 West Temple Avenue, Pomona, CA 91768 ©2021 California State Polytechnic University, Pomona All Rights Reserved About Cal Poly Pomona Feedback Privacy Accessibility Document Readers