Skip to main content Temple University Explore Temple’s Schools and Colleges Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Support Temple Temple University Search Site Search Full Menu Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees President History & Traditions Temple Health News & Media Offices Public Information Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Development Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Libraries Business Analytics MS You are here Home Academics Degrees and Programs Business Analytics MS Apply Events Request More Info Business Analytics MS Admissions Careers, Internships & Opportunities Required Courses Research & Facilities Scholarships & Financial Aid Master of Science in Business Analytics Gain the skills to transform data into insights and to advance your career in a fast-paced, growing industry with the Master of Science in Business Analytics at Temple’s Fox School of Business. With its market-driven, customizable curriculum, this program focuses on explanation, interpretation and deep knowledge of data analytics, training “translators” able to move fluidly from data to decisions and from decisions to profit. Data-driven decision-making results in positive outcomes for organizations, and the Business Analytics MS leverages the ever-increasing importance of data as a strategic asset. Through case studies, coursework and real-world projects, you will acquire advanced skills and techniques that can provide data-driven insights into business problems. Business Analytics MS graduates are prepared to meet the growing demand for talent in the data science space: analyzing, deriving, discovering, managing and predicting insights from the complex data available to modern corporations. Shape your ideal career through this flexible degree program, which is offered via classes at Temple’s Center City Campus. The Master of Science in Business Analytics will equip you with the knowledge and practical expertise to make an immediate impact on your career and set you on the path to long-term professional success. Request Information Learn more about the Business Analytics MS program. Apply Now Ready to apply? Submit your graduate application. Learn More Explore all of the specialized master's programs at Fox. Request Information Apply Learn More Customized Curriculum This 30-credit graduate degree program can be completed on a full- or part-time basis, and you'll have up to five years to earn your degree. Through a customizable curriculum structure, you’ll have the opportunity to tailor the Master of Science in Business Analytics to your industry and interests. Start with foundational courses and then choose industry-specific electives based on your interests and goals. Industry-Connected Opportunities The program’s location in Center City, Philadelphia provides students access to the benefits of city life and connections to leading organizations. In the Master of Science in Business Analytics, you will learn the latest theories and strategies of data analytics, and put this knowledge to immediate use with hands-on experiences. You will apply course material to live data; gain commercial-grade consulting experience; and provide data analytic solutions to real-world companies. Learn more about industry-connected opportunities. Classes & Curriculum Core courses in the Master of Science in Business Analytics program include Advanced Business Analytics; Data: Care, Feeding, and Cleaning; Decision Models: From Data to Decisions; Experiments: Knowledge by Design; Quantitative Methods for Business; Statistical Learning and Data Mining; and Visualization: The Art of Numbers and the Psychology of Persuasion. Learn more about required and elective coursework within the Business Analytics MS program. Related Graduate Degrees Computational Data Science MS* Marketing MS Statistics and Data Science MS Statistics MS Statistics PhD Related Graduate Certificates Business Analytics *College of Science and Technology Concentrations You can focus on Business Analytics or you can take one of the following concentrations. Finance Broaden your understanding of business analytics and hone your skills in both financial analysis and strategy. Develop an approach to corporate finance through financial modeling and corporate valuation. Learn to make use of applied statistics and categorical data analysis. Marketing Develop an in-depth understanding of the techniques behind the application of marketing research. Utilize consumer data analytics to understand purchasing behavior while you hone your project management skills and understanding of various approaches to business analytics. Supply Chain Management Prepare to influence decision-making and improve organizational results by learning to transform data into a powerful strategic asset. Develop expertise in supply chain services, forecasting the availability of goods and maximizing customer value. Tuition & Fees In keeping with Temple’s commitment to access and affordability, this Master of Science offers a competitive level of tuition with multiple opportunities for financial support. Tuition rates are set annually by the university and are affected by multiple factors, including program degree level (undergraduate or graduate), course load (full- or part-time), in-state or out-of-state residency, and more. These tuition costs apply to the 2021–2022 academic year. Pennsylvania resident: $1,142.00 per credit Out-of-state: $1,142.00 per credit Learn more about our tuition and fees. See additional fees and costs associated with the Business Analytics MS program. Program Contact Rachel Brown is the assistant director of MBA and MS degree programs. Phone: 215-204-5766 Email: rachelbrown@temple.edu Student Clubs & Organizations Joining student clubs and organizations is a great way to meet like-minded students; connect with local, national and international businesses; and enhance the skills you use in your professional career. Fox offers more than 30 student professional organizations. Supplement your academic experience by participating in a club related to your major or interests. The following clubs and organizations are available to students in Fox. The Fox Analytics Student Association promotes analytics-related experiences that aid in the professional development of graduate students. These experiences are intended to hone students’ professional, technical and communication skills, as well as maintain a sense of community among students, faculty, alumni and industry leaders. The Fox Graduate Student Association connects students and alumni with the greater Fox community, providing professional development, networking and volunteer opportunities for graduate students. The mission of Fox Net Impact is to grow and strengthen a network of leaders who use the power of business to make a positive economic, environmental and social impact. It brings together students seeking to network and to use the power of business to create a better world. The International Business Association brings together students from all over the world to learn about foreign business and the global economy, and offers an array of professional development opportunities. Fox Professional Speakers invites students to practice their communication, presentation and leadership skills in a supportive and positive environment. Those with dreams of starting their own business may be interested in the Entrepreneurial Students Association, which aims to support, inspire and encourage students to pursue their entrepreneurial goals. The association is open to students of all majors. See a full list of students clubs and organizations. Global Immersions Fox graduate students can participate in Global Immersions. They are destination-focused learning experiences that allow graduate students to engage with a different country's culture, language and business practices. Global Immersions expose students to comparative business environments, global business in emerging markets, global companies working to solve crucial problems, intensive and diverse learning experiences, and international innovation and entrepreneurship. Previous destinations include China, India, Latin America and South Africa. Recent participating companies include Black and Decker, BMW, Deloitte, Microsoft and SanDisk. Learn more about Global Immersion Programs. Temple also offers interested students a variety of options for pursuing internship, teaching and volunteer opportunities abroad through the Center for International Business and Research. Learn more about your options for studying or working abroad. Accreditation The Fox School of Business is accredited by the Association to Advance Collegiate Schools of Business (AACSB). The school has maintained AACSB accreditation since 1934. BU-BUSA-MS Additional Program Information School/College Site View Program Details Go back to AcademicsMore in Business Analytics MS Admissions Careers, Internships & Opportunities Required Courses Research & Facilities Scholarships & Financial Aid Apply Events Request More Info Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Calendar Policies Social Media TUportal TUmail Accessibility Careers at Temple Safety & Emergency Information Ethics & Compliance Privacy Statement Professional Licensure Disclosures Follow Temple University Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community. Apply Events Request More Info