Skip to main content Utility Links University of Pennsylvania Penn Provost Education Division Secondary Nav Penn GSC Visit the Center Support Our Work Group Created with Sketch. Group Created with Sketch. search Group Created with Sketch. full menu Primary Nav Penn GSC About Navigating the Academy Graduate Life Resources Spaces Events Drawer Menu Penn GSC About Explore Back to main menu Grad Center Team Explore Back to main menu Join Our Team Your Space on Campus Explore Back to main menu Accessibility Grad Center Spaces Reserve a Room Mission and Vision Engage with Us Grad Center Advising and Support Penn Grad News Penn Grad Blog Explore Back to main menu About & Submissions Navigating the Academy Explore Back to main menu Academic Writing Programs Explore Back to main menu Dissertation Boot Camp Explore Back to main menu Virtual Dissertation Boot Camp Writing Groups Writers Rooms and Retreats Thesis and Dissertation Explore Back to main menu Penn 3MT Grants and Fellowships Explore Back to main menu Highlighted Opportunities Explore Back to main menu Predoctoral Fellowships for Excellence Through Diversity Fontaine Society Explore Back to main menu About the Fontaine Society Fontaine Fellows Explore Back to main menu Resources for Current Fellows Fontaine News Teaching and Mentoring Resources & Support Graduate Life Explore Back to main menu Language Programs Community Impact Fund Graduate Leadership Awards Peer Accountability Groups Resources Explore Back to main menu Spring 2022 Information & Resources Explore Back to main menu Fall 2021 Graduate Spaces Transit Interruption Information New Student Resources Explore Back to main menu New Student Orientation Hub New Student Checklist For International Students Online Sessions for New Students Academic Policies and Support Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Funding & Finances Explore Back to main menu Insurance Grants for PhD Students Graduate Emergency Fund Student Wellness & Engagement Explore Back to main menu Campus Activities Graduate Student Groups Conduct and Safety Living in Philadelphia Student Accounts & Technology Spaces Events Visit the Center Support Our Work Search Group Created with Sketch. Graduate Student Center The home for graduate & professional student life at Penn. Learn more Your Space on Penn's Campus The Grad Center is a hub for information, programming, resources, and support for graduate and professional students at Penn. Academic Year Hours Monday-Thursday 9:00AM-7:00PM Friday: 9:00AM-6:00PM Saturday-Sunday: 12:00PM-6:00PM Summer Hours Monday-Friday: 10:00AM - 5:00PM Saturday-Sunday: Closed Resources and Support: Graduate Resource Guide Individual & Group Advising Upcoming Events Engage with Us Reserve a Room Newsletter Sign-Up Connect with Others Get more involved with Grad Life events & build your community at Penn. Navigate the Academy Resources and programs to help you succeed in graduate school and beyond. Get Oriented Resources to help new students transition to life at Penn. Thrive at Penn Resources and support to help you make the most of your graduate school experience. Find Balance Explore resources and opportunities to maintain a healthy balance during graduate school. Stay Informed Learn about upcoming events and programs for graduate and professional students. Penn Grad News News about and for Penn graduate and professional students. See More Penn Grad News May 2022 Newsletter for Graduate & Professional Students by Vice Provost for Education Read More Awards, Funding PhD candidate Sangsoo Lee awarded 2022 Y.H. Park Fellowship Read More Awards, Funding, Fontaine Society PhD student Abiola Oyebo named 2022 Chisum Fellow Read More Graduate Student Center University of Pennsylvania 3615 Locust Walk Philadelphia PA 19104 215-746-6868 gradcenter@upenn.edu Stay connected with updates from the Grad Center! Newsletter sign-up: Footer Menu Valuing Graduate Students Contact Us Site Credits Accessibility