Skip to main content Skip to main content Prospective Students Current Students Alumni More Faculty/Staff News Media Parents Skip to main content Apply Apply Give Give Follow Us Follow Us Twitter Follow Us Facebook Follow Us Instagram Follow Us LinkedIn Follow Us YouTube Follow Us Social Stream Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. Navigate Search Skip to main content Brand Home Guidelines Guidelines Writing / Editing Web / Digital Photography / Video Logos Colors Fonts Social Media Stationery Brand Assets Brand Assets Marketing Email Templates Logos Powerpoint Templates Promise Overview ☰ return to top SMU BRAND CENTER Bringing Our Brand to Life Welcome to the starting point for understanding and applying the SMU brand to your work. This information and these resources give you a quick start for capturing our voice and tone in all types of writing and deploying our visual style in design, photography and video. Through consistency, we build a strong and recognizable identity for SMU. Collectively, our work contributes to what people think about SMU. BRAND PROMISE What we say is important. How we say it is, too. Writing that’s friendly, smart and engaging and storytelling sparked by our core strengths capture the essence of what makes us SMU. WRITING / EDITING The digital ecosystem extends our brandwidth around the clock and across the globe. Easy navigation, quick-read copy and eye-catching visuals expand our welcoming spirit to the web, mobile and email user experience. WEB / DIGITAL Warm, candid and surprising images create a “you are there” feeling. They provide a sense of place, illustrate a passion or explain a purpose. Compelling visuals often become the emotional center of a narrative. Sometimes, they are the story. Photography / Video Our logo is SMU’s signature, a symbol of our reputation and a source of pride. Use the easy-to-follow guidelines to maintain consistency and apply it thoughtfully. LOGOS While we’ll always be true to red and blue, our refreshed palette adds four new hues. Master the mixing of primary and secondary colors for designs with energy and impact. COLOR PALETTE Trade Gothic makes a statement. Tiempos adds verve. These creative types harmonize beautifully, so feel free to play around and find the perfect balance. FONTS Social media’s public and immediate nature amplifies opportunities to connect with world changers wherever they are. As we build a social community, each post becomes a new reason for people to like us even more. SOCIAL MEDIA Go get creative! BRAND PROMISEGUIDELINES SMU Marketing & Communications Questions? Contact us: brand@smu.edu 6425 Boaz Lane Dallas, TX 75205214.768.2000 Apply Visit School Cox School of Business Dedman College of Humanities and Sciences Dedman School of Law Lyle School of Engineering Meadows School of the Arts Moody School of Graduate and Advanced Studies Perkins School of Theology Simmons School of Education and Human Development Explore SMU Magazine Academic Calendar Events Calendar Guildhall Continuing and Professional Education Athletics Employment at SMU Campus Reporting a Bias Incident Report Sexual Misconduct Emergency Preparedness Student Life George W. Bush Presidential Center SMU Libraries Meadows Museum Tate Lecture Series Contact Us Maps and Directions Legal Disclosures © Southern Methodist University, PO Box 750100, Dallas, TX 75275 twitter facebook instagram linkedin youtube share