Skip Navigation California State University, Fullerton Site Menu College of Engineering and Computer Science Electrical Engineering Main Navigation About Show Extended About Us Message from the Chair Enrollment and Degrees Awarded Program Educational Objectives and Student Outcomes Events Announcements Degrees Show Extended BS in Electrical Engineering MS in Electrical Engineering Course List Students Show Extended Current Students Admissions Student Success Faculty/Staff Contact Us Department of Electrical Engineering The Electrical Engineering program provides students with knowledge of basic and advanced topics in the areas of design and analysis of VLSI and electronic circuits, design and analysis of computer architecture, microprocessors, communication systems, signal processing, and control systems. Through this program students develop an ability to apply design and analysis knowledge to the practice of electrical engineering in an effective and professional manner. This knowledge can be applied to various engineering practices in aerospace, computer, electrical, electronics and other applied fields. The Master of Science program in Electrical Engineering is intended to provide advanced knowledge and competency in the theory and practice of electrical engineering. The program prepares students to pursue a wide range of professional engineering activities in the areas of: Communications Systems/Signal Processing Computer Engineering Control Systems Electronics and Circuit Theory Current Students Information and resources for current students Current Students Admissions Learn about our admission process and future student resources Admissions Student Success Learn about employment opportunities and student success center Student Success Accreditation The Bachelor of Science degree in Electrical Engineering is accredited by the Engineering Accreditation Commission of ABET, http://www.abet.org Events & Announcements Electrical Engineering Project Senior Showcase 2019 If you have any questions, send us a message and a staff member will get back to you as soon as possible. Contact This site is maintained by College of Engineering and Computer Science. Last Published 4/5/22 To report problems or comments with this site, please contact ecswebmaster@fullerton.edu. © California State University, Fullerton. All Rights Reserved. Web Accessibility CSUF is committed to ensuring equal accessibility to our users. Let us know about any accessibility problems you encounter using this website. We'll do our best to improve things and get you the information you need. Resources: Download Adobe Acrobat Reader Adobe Reader Download Word viewer, or download Excel viewer, or download PowerPoint viewer Microsoft Viewers Report An ATI Issue Accessible @ CSUF Version_4.8.10 This page uses javascript to help render elements, if you have problems please enable javascript. This page uses accordion styles which rely on javascript. You do not have javascript enabled, some functions will be disabled.