Skip to main content Clemson University Degrees Home Degree Programs MENU Accounting (B.S.) LEARN MORE ABOUT Whether a business or government agency, a hospital, church, school or the Red Cross, all organizations have finances to manage. From the moment you step into our classrooms, we’ll begin training you to take an organization’s finances and create a sound structure that allows it to make the most impact with its resources. Accountants are idea-and-solutions people. Their work is varied, dynamic and challenging — your classes will be the same. Our students graduate with a thorough understanding of the financial aspects of business along with good presentation and people skills. While accountants frequently hold management positions in larger organizations, many also start their own businesses. Many pursue their CPA certification. Still others pursue a law degree or a career in federal law enforcement. No matter the direction you wish to take, accounting is a sound place to start. FAST FACTS Since 1989, our program has held accounting accreditation from the AACSB. Research projects are done using the same electronic databases used by accountants in large public accounting firms and corporations. Students learn the financial language of business and how to assess, measure and report on an organization's profitability and financial health. After graduation, you will have the skills for a number of career options such as corporate accounting or internal auditing. You'll also prepared to enter graduate-level training to become a Certified Public Accountant (CPA). Our students are highly recruited within the Southeast. Our national reputation allows us to assist students who wish to obtain positions outside of the region. WHAT YOU'LL STUDY All students interested in Clemson’s accounting degree must first complete a pre-business core curriculum in order to move into the upper-level degree classes. On the Clemson admissions application, you’ll apply as a pre-business major. Once into your core classes, you’ll focus on the intensive study of accounting methodology, auditing, taxation and finance management theory. Clemson’s accounting majors also devote about half of their study to the humanities, English, public speaking, mathematics, and the natural and social sciences. In this way, you’ll graduate with a broad-based education that gives you accounting, finance and business expertise and contributes to your proficiency in analytical, communication and interpersonal skills — after all, businesses are made up of people. Combined Bachelor's/Master's Plan: Our combined degree program in accounting allows you to get ahead of the game on a graduate degree. You can take up to 12 hours of graduate credit that counts toward both your bachelor's and master's degrees in accounting. Curriculum Accounting, B.S. Popular Minors Financial Management Legal Studies Management Information Systems Nonprofit Leadership Similar Majors Economics (B.S./B.A.) Financial Management (B.S.) Management (B.S.) EXPERIENCES BEYOND THE CLASSROOM Accounting students have many opportunities to enrich their classroom education — whether they seek internships, study abroad or participate in one of the many student organizations, they will learn much more than just the facts found in a textbook or on a computer screen. Community Participate in a living-learning experience where you get to live and learn with peer business majors in a dedicated residence hall. Take part in educational and extracurricular activities while forming lifelong friendships.Learn More » Internships Students are encouraged to complete an internship during the summer between their junior and senior years. This experience will help you learn to apply classroom concepts to actual business problems.Learn More » Join in The Institute of Management Accountants (IMA) student chapter is our link to the international organization for Accounting and Financial professionals. Students learn about career opportunities and network with employers. Study Abroad During the summer, students have the opportunity to take one or two classes at Magdalen College at Oxford University in London. Long weekends enable optional side trips to cities such as Paris, Dublin and Brussels.Learn More » CONNECT WITH OTHER STUDENTS Wilbur O. and Ann Powers College of Business student organizations AFTER GRADUATION Your college decision isn't really about the next four years. We get it. It's about what doors are opened by your degree and whether those opportunities are what you had envisioned for yourself. Here's a snapshot of what life after graduation looks like for some of our most recent students. WHERE OUR RECENT GRADUATES HAVE GONE KEY 41-100% 21-40% 11-20% 0-10% RECENT EMPLOYERS Audit Staff Deloitte Tax Staff Elliott Davis Accounting Financial Analyst Amazon Analyst SunTrust Bank Accountant U.S. Army Corps of Engineers RECENT POSTGRADUATE STUDIES MPAcc Clemson University MPAcc University of Georgia MBA Texas A&M University MBA Clemson University JD Rutgers University COMMON CAREER AREAS Public Accounting Auditing or Assurance Services Tax Environmental Accounting Forensic or Investigative Accounting International Accounting Personal Financial Planning Corporate Accounting Financial Management Financial Reporting Internal Auditing Cost Accounting Tax Planning Budget Analysis Government Auditing Financial Reporting Financial Management Budget Analysis Research Education Teaching Researching Consulting Nonprofit Accounting Internal Auditing Financial Planning Budgeting Money Handling Record Keeping Used with permission from the University of Tennessee. FIND OUT MORE Have more questions or want more information? Fill out the form below, which goes directly to the following department contact. If you’d also like to receive general University information from Clemson’s admissions office, please follow the link to the right and sign up to join our mailing list. Jake Anderson Recruiter manders@clemson.edu Department Website College Website Loading... Department Website College Website Home Admissions Campus Life Academics Visit Outreach Research About Apply To Clemson Undergraduate Graduate Professional Online Education Employment Opportunities Policy/Terms of Use Text Version Web Accessibility Ethics/Safety Line Privacy Policy Site Information Copyright © 2015 Clemson University Clemson, South Carolina 29634 864-656-3311 Contact Clemson Stories for the Clemson Family Clemson University on Facebook Clemson University on Twitter Clemson University on Google+ Clemson University on LinkedIn Clemson University on YouTube Clemson University on Flickr Clemson University on Instagram Search Clemson University degrees Clemson Degree Programs Search Alphabetical List Schedule a Visit Campus Life Admissions Costs & Financial Aid Similar Majors To Accounting (B.S.) Economics (B.S./B.A.) Financial Management (B.S.) Management (B.S.)