Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Health Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Our Services Appointments Health Topics Events Forms and Guidelines Our Organization News See All Services What's Open Now Patient Resources Quarantine and Isolation Support Coping Tools Immunization Compliance Top Services Birth Control Education Individual Counseling Primary Care Register with Disability Services Sexual Assault: Get Support STI Testing Support Groups Travel Medicine Urgent Medical Concerns Workshops and Trainings Cost of Service Overview Make an Appointment Same Day Service Emergency and After-hours Support Alcohol Body Image Concerns Marijuana Disabilities Other Drugs HIV Insurance Men's Health Mental Health and Well-Being Anxiety Depression Stress Nutrition Physical Activity Relationships Overview Academic Relationships Friendships Roommates Sexual and Reproductive Health Sleep Transgender and Gender Expansive Health Violence Prevention Prevention Consent What Is Sexual Assault? Supporting a Survivor What Is Relationship Abuse? Stalking What Is Sexual Harassment? Bystander Intervention-Step UP! Women's Health See All Events Sexual Assault Awareness Month Columbia Health Flu Season Information Virtual Naloxone Training About Columbia Health Who We Are Who We Serve Confidentiality, Patient Rights, & Patient Responsibilities Operating Philosophy Video Library Your Feedback Staff Directory Health Units Alice! Health Promotion Counseling and Psychological Services Disability Services Gay Health Advocacy Project (GHAP) Insurance Office Medical Services Sexual Violence Response Columbia Health You are here: Home Staff Directory Tehmina M. Kazmi Tehmina M. Kazmi Dr. Kazmi joined Columbia University in 2020. She is a board-certified Family Physician and Assistant Clinical Professor of Medicine in the Center for Family and Community Medicine, Columbia University. Prior to joining Columbia University, Dr. Kazmi was Medical Director with New York University Abu Dhabi. She has extensive global experience and is committed to providing the highest level of health care in culturally diverse and college health populations. Education: MBBS Pakistan Certifications and Licensure: Certified American Board of Family Physicians Licensed to practice medicine in New York Licensed to practice medicine in California Professional Experience: Associate Clinical Director, Columbia Health Assistant Clinical Professor of Medicine in the Center of Family and Community Medicine, Columbia University Medical Director New York University Abu Dhabi Physician New York University School of Medicine Awards and Honors: Fellow American College of Family Physicians Publications: Co-author in following with Dr. C.A Stein, Prof. of Medicine and Pharmacology Columbia University. Surface binding and internalization of Suramin in hemopoietic and prostate cancer cell lines, Poster presentation at 1994-AACR Meeting Surface binding and cellular internalization properties of Suramin. Clin. Cancer Research 1995 (1) 509-517. Multiple mechanisms may contribute to the cellular anti-adhesive effects of Phosphorothioate Oligodeoxytnucleotides: Nucleic Acid Res. 1996 (24) 734-735 Memberships: American Academy of Family Physicians Associate Clinical Director, Columbia Health/ Assistant Clinical Professor of Medicine (in the Center for Family and Community Medicine) Contact Info John Jay Hall 4th Floor 519 West 114th Street Mail Code: 3601 New York NY 10027, United States 212-854-7426 [email protected] Columbia Health Administration Wallach Hall, Suite 125, Mail Code 4202, 1116 Amsterdam Avenue · New York, NY 10027 Phone 212-854-2284 Contact Us [email protected] Internal Use Only Login to Access Follow Us Facebook Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close