Skip to main content Skip to main content Prospective Students Current Students Alumni More Faculty/Staff News Media Parents Skip to main content Apply Apply Give Give Follow Us Follow Us Twitter Follow Us Facebook Follow Us Instagram Follow Us LinkedIn Follow Us YouTube Follow Us Social Stream Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. Navigate Search Skip to main content SMU Research Road to R1 Key Research Areas Research Centers and Institutes Research Administration Faculty Grants ☰ SMU SMU Research Key Research Areas Key Research Areas Over the next few years, SMU plans to hire clusters of faculty that will enhance areas of established research strength at SMU, particularly in the areas of data science and high-performance computing. To identify an initial three to five areas of distinction for these clusters, we began convening faculty town halls in spring 2021. Based on these town halls and the recommendations of faculty-led task forces, SMU will advertise two interdisciplinary cluster hires across two areas of strategic research excellence. These clusters will serve as a model for future cluster hires to support our research and scholarly/creative ambitions. Earth Hazards and National Security Built upon SMU’s fundamental expertise on sensing (e.g., acoustic, seismic, radar, and embedded) and SMU’s high-performance computation (HPC) facility, SMU can position itself as a national and international leader for developing and applying state-of-the-art sensing analysis and data-mining techniques for monitoring signatures of the Earth Hazards and coupled human systems through a strategic cluster hiring. The mission of this cluster would be to reduce risks and impacts of Earth Hazards on National Security and community resilience and sustainability, with a focus on Texas. 21st Century Technology and Education Our priorities for cluster hires are in the areas of Immersive Learning and AI in education and society to expand our research in technology-enhanced instruction and learning (TEIL). Within these areas, our priority is for faculty with a focus in improvement science and skills in mixed methods research. These hires will help us create synergy among our existing faculty and bring in new perspectives and skill sets that will help us grow our research in TEIL. For more information about TEIL, please visit the Technology and Education Cluster. Apply Visit School Cox School of Business Dedman College of Humanities and Sciences Dedman School of Law Lyle School of Engineering Meadows School of the Arts Moody School of Graduate and Advanced Studies Perkins School of Theology Simmons School of Education and Human Development Explore SMU Magazine Academic Calendar Events Calendar Guildhall Continuing and Professional Education Athletics Employment at SMU Campus Reporting a Bias Incident Report Sexual Misconduct Emergency Preparedness Student Life George W. Bush Presidential Center SMU Libraries Meadows Museum Tate Lecture Series Contact Us Maps and Directions Legal Disclosures © Southern Methodist University, PO Box 750100, Dallas, TX 75275 twitter facebook instagram linkedin youtube share