Skip to main content Main navigation Academics Faculty & Research News & Events Offices & Services About Us Information For Alumni Industry Partners & Recruiters Prospective Students Shortcuts Employment & Jobs Visit Us Make a Gift Search Read the latest updates on coronavirus from Harvard University. For SEAS specific-updates, please visit SEAS & FAS Division of Science: Coronavirus FAQs SearchMenu About Us Visit Us Pierce Hall 29 Oxford Street Built in 1901 and one of the oldest buildings on Oxford Street, Pierce Hall is at the center of the SEAS campus and activities. SEAS Administration and faculty offices are housed in this building, along with the SEAS Library, innovative classrooms, and labs. Get Directions Gordon McKay Laboratory of Applied Science 9 Oxford Street The Gordon McKay Laboratory of Applied Science (named after donor and inventor Gordon McKay), contains laboratories, faculty offices, and graduate student spaces primarily for Applied Physics, Mechanical Engineering, and Material Sciences. Get Directions Cruft Laboratory 19A Oxford Street Cruft Laboratory was designed in 1915 to support research on antennas and storage batteries, and later, during WWII, was dedicated to work on radar. Cruft, like Pierce Hall, was eventually (and still is) used both by engineering and physics. Get Directions Maxwell Dworkin 33 Oxford Street Maxwell Dworkin Laboratory, named after the mothers of the building’s donors (Microsoft Chairman William H. Gates III and Microsoft President Steven A. Ballmer, both members of the Class of 1977) is a contemporary structure, fully owned and operated by SEAS. The structure has the largest classrooms and public spaces available at SEAS and contains an undergraduate design lab, student lounges, and a teaching lab for electrical engineering. Get Directions Engineering Sciences Lab 58 Oxford Street The Engineering Sciences Lab (ESL) was designed by internationally-known architect Minoru Yamasaki (famous for his design of the World Trade Center in New York City) specifically as a high temperature gas lab. The building was recently renovated to provide facilities for laboratory-intensive bioengineering work and graduate student kitchens and lounges. Get Directions The Laboratory for Integrated Science and Engineering (LISE) 15 Oxford Street This facility houses collaborations in the areas of nanoscale science research. Laboratories are housed in the one-third of LISE that is aboveground and in the three-level basement is a shared cleanroom, facilities for materials synthesis, and a microscopy suite. Get Directions Northwest Building 52 Oxford Street This structure houses interdisciplinary laboratories, classrooms, and offices. SEAS-dedicated space includes administrative offices (finance and budget; procurement; and research administration) and the scientific machine shop. Get Directions Science & Engineering Complex The Science & Engineering Complex (SEC) is most significant new building constructed by Harvard in a generation. The SEC features state-of-the-art classrooms, active learning labs, maker space, faculty labs, community space and a café. Green design makes it one of the most environmentally sustainable facilities of its kind. The SEC is located across the street from the Harvard Business School campus, the Harvard Innovation Lab, Life Lab, and ArtLab. Get Directions 114 Western Avenue Completely renovated in 2019, 114 Western Avenue houses SEAS administrative offices, classrooms, and a University childcare center. Get Directions The campus of the Harvard School of Engineering includes 600,000 square feet of dynamic teaching and research spaces in both Cambridge and the Allston neighborhood of Boston. The historic part of the Engineering campus in Cambridge is located just north of Harvard Yard (beyond the Science Center). This collection of classroom and lab buildings straddles Oxford Street, and sits across an oak-filled quadrangle from the Harvard Law School. Engineering facilities in Cambridge are adjacent or within close proximity to buildings housing the departments of Molecular and Cellular Biology, Organismic and Evolutionary Biology, Human Evolutionary Biology, Stem Cell and Regenerative Biology, Chemistry and Chemical Biology, Earth & Planetary Sciences, Mathematics, and Physics. On Western Avenue in Allston, SEAS occupies the purpose-built Science and Engineering Complex and a newly renovated classroom and office building. The state-of-the-art Allston facilities include a maker space and teaching labs, flexible classrooms, laboratories for experimentalist and theoreticians, a library, café, student lounges, dedicated spaces for student organizations, copious community space, as well as administrative offices. An Engineering Yard and additional green spaces extend to the south of the Science and Engineering Complex. Across street are the Harvard Business School campus, the Harvard Innovation Lab, Life Lab, and the Harvard ArtLab. Cambridge is home for all SEAS faculty in Applied Mathematics, Applied Physics, and Environmental Science and Engineering. Allston houses the Bioengineering, Computer Science, Data Science, and Computational Science and Engineering programs along with most SEAS administrative offices. Faculty from Electrical Engineering and Materials Science/Mechanical Engineering are split between locations in Cambridge and Allston. It is a short walk or bike ride between the SEAS buildings in Cambridge and Allston, which are also connected by Harvard-operated shuttle buses. Main navigation In About Us Directory School Overview Leadership Letter from the Dean Standing Committees Mission & Vision Accreditation Engineering Sciences, SB Electrical Engineering, SB Mechanical Engineering, SB Timeline Visit Us Tours Virtual Tour: Allston Virtual Tour: Cambridge Allston Science & Engineering Complex SEC Library 114 Western Avenue Transportation Parking in Allston Shuttle & Van Service MBTA Bus Transportation Pedestrian Transportation Bicycle Transportation Dining in Allston Sustainability Allston Updates & FAQs Cambridge Parking Accessible Parking/Building Entrances Accessibility at SEAS Restrooms Classroom/Meeting Room Accessibility Lactation Rooms Employment & Jobs Information For Harvard John A. Paulson School of Engineering and Applied Sciences 150 Western Ave, Allston, MA 02134 29 Oxford Street, Cambridge, MA 02138 Footer - Social Media Links Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn © 2022 President and Fellows of Harvard College Footer Diversity Mission Trademark Notice Accessibility Policy Privacy Policy