Skip To Content University of Notre Dame Stories Campus Witnesses to Terror Notre Dame and the attacks of September 11, 2001 The tragedy of September 11, 2001, lives forever in the national memory. The events of that day left an indelible imprint on Notre Dame’s institutional memory as well. From the initial shock of watching the events unfold, to the fear and uncertainty that gave way to common resolve and solidarity, here is how the University experienced 9/11 and its aftermath. The University of Notre Dame marked the 20th anniversary of the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist attacks on the United States in several ways Saturday (Sept. 11), including a prayer service on the South Quad. Deaths in the Family This Notre Dame Magazine feature provides names and details of the lives of those Notre Dame family members lost in the 9/11 attacks. Read story Observer Most every newspaper in the country featured a photo of the attack on the front page of its September 12 edition. Domers who Survived From one who saw the second plane hit, to another who spent nearly an hour descending the stairs of the World Trade Center, this is an account of the many alumni who survived the attacks. Read story Wake of 9/11 Sept. 11 was more than just a date. It was a season. Here’s how 9/11 and the days and weeks afterward felt on the Notre Dame campus. Read story Memorial at Notre Dame Fire Department Notre Dame Thomas Coleman Fire Station draped in black bunting and with a firefighter coat and helmet outside on the bench in memorial of the firefighters in New York and Washington, D.C. on September 12, 2001. U2 at the Joyce Center A month after the attacks, one the most famous rock bands of all time played at the Joyce Center. U2 ended the show by bringing members of the New York Police and Fire Departments on stage for its final song, “Walk On.” Read story Father Malloy Homily: 10th Anniversary Mass The University of Notre Dame observed the 10th anniversary of the terrorist attacks on the United States with a special Mass on the Hesburgh Library Mall on September 11, 2011. The homily was given by Rev. Edward A. “Monk” Malloy, C.S.C., Notre Dame president emeritus. Shamrock Series in New York The Notre Dame football team played its Shamrock Series game in New York in 2018. Observances were held at St. Peter’s Church in Manhattan, as well as Ground Zero, to honor members of the Notre Dame family who died in the attacks. Fr. Malloy Reflects In this episode of the Notre Dame Stories podcast, Fr. Malloy offers his reflection on the events of 9/11 and what followed for the campus community and himself. Notre Dame Stories: In Studio Produced by the Office of Public Affairs and Communications Author: Andy Fuller Photography: Provided by University of Notre Dame Archives Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn © 2022 University of Notre Dame Notre Dame, IN 46556 USA 41.703234 -86.238985 Phone: (574) 631-5000 Contact Search Mobile App News Events Visit Accessibility Emergency Closed Captioning