Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. UC News UC News right arrow down arrow UC News Search Topics right arrow down arrow UC Answers #UCtheGood In The News Arts & Culture Science & Tech International Athletics Health College Bound Impact right arrow down arrow #UCtheGood Insights Diversity Experience-Based Learning Next Lives Here Bicentennial COVID-19 Student Experience Colleges right arrow down arrow College of Allied Health Sciences College of Arts & Sciences College of Business Blue Ash College Clermont College College-Conservatory of Music College of Design, Architecture, Art, and Planning College of Education, Criminal Justice, & Human Services College of Engineering and Applied Science Graduate School College of Law College of Medicine College of Nursing College of Pharmacy Units right arrow down arrow Academic Health Center Admissions Alumni Association Board of Trustees Campus Services Equity and Inclusion Hoxworth Human Resources IT@UC Libraries Office of Innovation Office of Research President's Office Provost Public Safety Student Affairs UC Foundation Veteran's Affairs Continuing Education Media Contacts Featured News UC celebrates first CTAP graduates January 28, 2022 Student Ronald Lewis was the first to receive his certification in CompTIA A+ and was hired by assistant professor adjunct Tonkia Bridges to support the continuing CTAP program. New Year, New You: 4 reasons to become a lifelong learner for... The benefit of lifelong learning is well documented and researched. Lifelong learning is the continued educational experience that utilizes non-credit academic courses, educational travel, and community service to fully engage the brain, heighten physical activity, and maintain healthy social relationships. Spectrum News 1 profiles Cincinnati Talent Acceleration Program October 18, 2021 The University of Cincinnati’s Cincinnati Talent Acceleration Program is providing nontraditional students with training in tech and a path to higher education, the Cincinnati Enquirer reported. Debug Query for this Latest News Keyword topics Select topics Answers Arts & Culture Athletics Bicentennial College bound COVID-19 Diversity Entrepreneurship Experience-based Learning Faculty Staff Health Impact In The News Insights International Must Read Next Lives Here Science & Tech Student Experience Thought Leadership colleges Select colleges College of Arts and Sciences Blue Ash College College of Allied Health Sciences College-Conservatory of Music College of Engineering and Applied Science College of Education, Criminal Justice, & Human Services Clermont College Lindner College of Business College of Design, Architecture, Art, and Planning Graduate School College of Law College of Medicine College of Nursing Online College of Pharmacy Clear All Filters {{facet.display}} remove {{facet.display}} remove {{facet.display}} remove {{facet.display}} remove UC celebrates first CTAP graduates January 28, 2022 Student Ronald Lewis was the first to receive his certification in CompTIA A+ and was hired by assistant professor adjunct Tonkia Bridges to support the continuing CTAP program. New Year, New You: 4 reasons to become a lifelong learner for... The benefit of lifelong learning is well documented and researched. Lifelong learning is the continued educational experience that utilizes non-credit academic courses, educational travel, and community service to fully engage the brain, heighten physical activity, and maintain healthy social relationships. Spectrum News 1 profiles Cincinnati Talent Acceleration Program October 18, 2021 The University of Cincinnati’s Cincinnati Talent Acceleration Program is providing nontraditional students with training in tech and a path to higher education, the Cincinnati Enquirer reported. Bearcat, Generation NOW founder uses professional credentials... October 5, 2021 The highlight of student success in professional development through the Office of Professional Development and Career Education. UC launches Cincinnati Talent Acceleration Program to provide... September 14, 2021 The Ohio Department of Higher Education awarded UC a grant to improve the skills of 200 low-income adults to jump start their path to career and college. Graduate of UC's Digital Skills Lab lands a new job in hospital... July 8, 2021 Continuing Ed student gains important professional skills to land her a better job. UC continuing education program led student to enrollment in... July 8, 2021 UC Continuing Ed Class Leads to Enrollment in Graduate Degree Program UC continuing education student scores in top three on Ohio exam June 30, 2021 A University of Cincinnati continuing education student earns micro-credentialing through UC's IMAP program. UC closed Friday in honor of Juneteenth June 17, 2021 The University of Cincinnati will be closed on Friday, June 18 in honor of federal government's decision to mark Juneteenth as a public holiday. The making of a successful Faculty & Staff Campaign May 25, 2021 More than one-third of UC’s nearly 7,000 faculty and staff have already contributed to the 2020-21 Faculty & Staff Campaign, putting the goal of 45% within reach. UC helps non-traditional students earn professional credentials February 10, 2021 Success stories of students who have earned their professional certificates through free classes offered at UC under the IMAP grant. UC Communiversity underway with new winter classes in... February 1, 2021 UC Communiversity Winter term moves from online classes in January to in-person in February. UC Answers: How does UC support first-gen students? November 8, 2020 First-generation college grad Jamar Beckham is a financial aid adviser at the University of Cincinnati and proud UC alumnus. Beckham received his bachelor’s degree in criminal justice in 2018 from UC’s College of Education, Criminal Justice, and Human Services. He offers advice to other first-generation students navigating higher education. IT certificate training to help Ohio job seekers October 19, 2020 The Office of Professional and Continuing Education offers IT Certificate Training Courses toward getting a good job. Ohio Cyber Range Institute to host bootcamp October 14, 2020 The Office of Professional and Continuing Education is offering a Cybersecurity Bootcamp in partnership with the UC School of Information Technology and Ohio Cyber Range Institute Load More Debug Query for this University of Cincinnati 2600 Clifton Ave. Cincinnati, OH 45220 513-556-0000 UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati University of Cincinnati 2600 Clifton Ave. Cincinnati, OH 45220 513-556-0000 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top