Skip to main content. ADVISORY | COVID-19 Information × kumc.edu School of Health Professions School of Medicine School of Nursing University of Kansas The University of Kansas Health System The University of Kansas Cancer Center Search within this section Search all sites School of Medicine Salina Academics Premedical Programs MD Program Admission & Aid Curriculum Lukert Society Student and Faculty Awards Standardized Patient Program Student Affairs About Our Campuses Make a Gift Info for Current Students Blackboard Webmail myKUMC Prospective Students Prospective Employees Alumni Faculty & Staff Residents & Fellows Patients Donors Researchers Visitors KU School of Medicine-Salina Our Campuses Make a Gift Info for KU School of Medicine-Salina Academics Academics Premedical Programs MD Program Admission & Aid Curriculum Lukert Society Student and Faculty Awards Standardized Patient Program Student Affairs Student Affairs Policies and Procedures Counseling and Support Services Health Care for Students About About From the Dean Faculty & Staff Salina Facilities Our Community Contact Information Make a Gift Academics The KU School of Medicine-Salina campus program trains the next generation of physicians and medical researchers, specifically to address the critical shortage of rural physicians in the state. The curriculum in Salina is identical to that at the School of Medicine campuses in Kansas City and Wichita. In the first two years (foundational science years), the curriculum is delivered by on-site and distance education. Lectures are given using interactive televideo; podcasting is available for all students. A major portion of the foundational science education is comprised of active-learning activities — problem-based learning and case-based collaborative learning sessions, clinical skills and simulation labs and human anatomy labs. The Salina program features a core group of basic scientists backed by a large team of experts in all relevant basic science fields in Kansas City. During their third and fourth years, medical students will complete required and elective clinical clerkships. These clerkships will be located at Salina Regional Health Center, local physician offices, and at other hospitals and physician offices in the region. Salina has a vibrant and active medical community with over 120 physicians practicing all specialties at the Salina Regional Health Center, a 390-bed regional hospital. This hospital serves as a major referral center for patients and critical access hospitals from a wide geographic region. Salina is also home to a strong family medicine residency program (Smoky Hill Family Residency Program), associated with a Federally Qualified Health Center (FQHC) medical-home practice. The city has a 50:50 mix of specialty-to-primary care physicians in Salina. The physician-to-student ratio is over 4:1. Learn more about our community. Premedical Programs MD Program Admission & Aid Curriculum Lukert Society Student and Faculty Awards Standardized Patient Program KU School of Medicine-Salina KU School of Medicine-Salina Health Education Center 138 N. Santa Fe Salina, KS 67401 Phone: 785-822-0400 KU School of Medicine-Salina Facebook page Make a Gift 3901 Rainbow Boulevard, Kansas City, KS 66160 | 913-588-5000 About Calendar News Equal Opportunity Statement Careers Facebook opens in new tab Twitter opens in new tab YouTube opens in new tab Instagram opens in new tab LinkedIn opens in new tab © 2022 The University of Kansas prohibits discrimination on the basis of race, color, ethnicity, religion, sex, national origin, age, ancestry, disability, status as a veteran, sexual orientation, marital status, parental status, gender identity, gender expression, and genetic information in the university's programs and activities. Retaliation is also prohibited by university policy. Inquiries regarding our non-discrimination policies should be directed to the Director for the Equal Opportunity & Academic Compliance Office, Mail Stop 7004, 4330 Shawnee Mission Parkway, Fairway, KS 66205, 913-588-5964, 711 TTY (for the Wichita, Salina, and Kansas City, Kansas medical center campuses). Inquiries regarding the University Sexual Harassment Policy should be directed to the Title IX Coordinator at 913-588-8011. Free Expression Statement | Privacy Statement | Notice of Privacy Practices | Consumer Information We use cookies to analyze our traffic & provide social media features. Visit the KU Medical Center Privacy Statement for more information. By closing this window & browsing this site, you agree to our use of cookies.