Skip to main content < × Penn COVID-19 Response > University of Pennsylvania Toggle Navigation Toggle Search Accessibility Menu Jump to… Main Content Search Main Navigation Utility Navigation Main menu Resources More Resources Complaint Resolution Policies Handbooks & Procedures Questions Concerns & Complaints Self ID and Penn People Laws & Regulations Accessibility More Accessibility Accommodation Services Committee for Accessible University Penn Accessible Transit Penn Buildings Forms Programming More Programming Training Events Recruitment More Recruitment Compliance Guidelines Staff Compliance Officers Diversity Search Advisors for Faculty Hiring Officers Faculty Search Information Community Posters About More About Contacts Utility Navigation A-Z Calendar Directory Maps Offices & Services Penn Home Webmail Back to Accessibility Menu Search Search About OAA•EOP Office of Affirmative Action and Equal Opportunity Programs The University of Pennsylvania prohibits unlawful discrimination based on race, color, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity, religion, creed, national or ethnic origin, citizenship status, age, disability, veteran status, or any other legally protected class. University of Pennsylvania's Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action Policy The University of Pennsylvania's special character is reflected in the diversity of the Penn community. Diversity is prized at Penn as a central component of its mission and helps create an educational and working environment that best supports the University's commitment to excellence in teaching, research, and scholarship. We seek talented faculty, students and staff who will constitute a vibrant community that draws on the strength that comes with a substantive institutional commitment to diversity along dimensions of race, ethnicity, gender, sexual orientation, age, religion, disability, veteran status, interests, perspectives, and socioeconomic status. Grounded in equal opportunity, nondiscrimination, and affirmative action, Penn's robust commitment to diversity is fundamental to the University's mission of advancing knowledge, educating leaders for all sectors of society, and public service. The University of Pennsylvania prohibits unlawful discrimination based on race, color, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity, religion, creed, national or ethnic origin, citizenship status, age, disability, veteran status, or any other legally protected class. Penn is committed to ensuring that its academic, social, recreational programs and services as well as opportunities for admission and employment are available on an equitable and nondiscriminatory basis without regard to an individual's legally protected class status. Penn also has written affirmative action programs to address any underrepresentation of women, minorities, people with disabilities, and qualified covered veterans. The Office of Affirmative Action and Equal Opportunity Programs, in collaboration with the Division of Human Resources and the Office of the Provost, oversees the implementation and administration of the University's equal opportunity, affirmative action, and nondiscrimination policies and programs. The University recognizes the right of members of the community to raise questions and pursue complaints of discrimination and adheres to a strict policy that prohibits retaliation for doing so. Questions, Complaints, or Concerns Questions, complaints of alleged discrimination, or concerns regarding these policies or their implementation may be directed to: Executive Director, Office of Affirmative Action and Equal Opportunity Programs. Franklin Building, Suite 421, 3451 Walnut Street. Philadelphia, PA 19104-6205. (215) 898-6993 (Voice). (215) 746-7088 (Fax). Mission Statement Nondiscrimination Statement Trustees Resolution Adopting a Diversity Statement The mission of the Office of Affirmative Action and Equal Opportunity Programs is to provide central leadership and support for the University's efforts to achieve an educational and work environment that is diverse in race, ethnicity, color, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity, religion, creed, national or ethnic origin, citizenship status, age, disability, veteran status or any other legally protected class status as well people of all interests, abilities and perspectives. The office will ensure the implementation of equal opportunity, affirmative action, and nondiscrimination policies through education, training and active partnership with others from the campus and the broader Philadelphia communities. The University of Pennsylvania values diversity and seeks talented students, faculty and staff from diverse backgrounds. The University of Pennsylvania does not discriminate on the basis of race, color, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity, religion, creed, national or ethnic origin, citizenship status, age, disability, veteran status or any other legally protected class status in the administration of its admissions, financial aid, educational or athletic programs, or other University-administered programs or in its employment practices. Questions or complaints regarding this policy should be directed to: The Executive Director of the Office of Affirmative Action and Equal Opportunity Programs Franklin Building, Suite 421 3451 Walnut Street Philadelphia, PA 19104-6205 (215) 898-6993 RESOLVED, that the Trustees of the University of Pennsylvania adopt in principal and practice the following statement on diversity: Penn rejoices in the rich diversity of persons, groups, views, and academic disciplines and programs that grace the campus of the nation's first university. Tapping our diversity to strengthen ties across all boundaries enriches the intellectual climate and creates a more vibrant community. Fostering and nourishing this diversity, especially among students, faculty, staff, and trustees must remain central to the core missions of the University. (adopted 2/15/2002) Contacts OAA•EOP Contact the Office of Affirmative Action and Equal Opportunity Programs. Visit Contacts of OAA•EOP University of Pennsylvania ©2022 University of Pennsylvania Disclaimer Emergency Services Privacy Policy Report Accessibility Issues and Get Help Report Copyright Infringement