Your browser does not support JavaScript! Your browser does not support JavaScript! Skip to main content Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Canvas | Webmail | Contact Us Request Info Apply Now eCourseware | Webmail | Contact Us Request Info Apply Now About UofM Global Learn More Rankings Accreditations Contact Us Degrees & Programs Undergraduate Graduate Certificates All Programs Complimentary Courses Admissions Apply Now Request Info Financial Aid Tuition & Fees Current Students Student Services & Support Register for Courses Graduation Home UofM Global Degree Programs UofM Global Undergraduate Finance Degrees Degree Programs Online Degrees Undergraduate Degrees All Undergraduate DegreesBusinessComputingHealth ProfessionsHumanitiesSocial Science Graduate Degrees All Graduate DegreesArtsBusinessComputingEducationEngineeringHealth ProfessionsHumanitiesLiberal StudiesSocial Science Graduate Certificates Complimentary Courses Contact Us Need Help? Call 844-302-3886 Email Us Finance The Department of Finance, Insurance and Real Estate (FIR) at the University of Memphis is one of six departments within the Fogelman College of Business & Economics which is the only business college in the Memphis area fully accredited by the prestigious AACSB. The UM Finance degree is also nationally and internationally recognized by the CFA Institute and the CFP Board as fulfilling their respective educational requirements through the specified set of approved courses, to sit for the Chartered Financial Analyst (CFA) or Certified Financial Planner (CFP) exams. The Department of Finance offers an online Bachelor of Business Administration (BBA) degree in Finance with a concentration in Business Finance with the primary objective to provide the basic concepts, principles and analytical tools essential for business decisions in the fields of finance. The business finance concentration focuses on decisions concerning stocks, bonds, fixed-income securities, derivatives, foreign exchange, capital markets, capital budgeting and financial management of corporations and will prepare you to: Develop and monitor operating budgets and financial control systems Conduct financial analysis to aid in corporate control, advise investors, and design optimal investment portfolios Design and promote financial products for use by industry, banks, and other financial institutions Analyze the profitability of alternative investment options and make recommendation of likely investment outcomes The BBA degree with a concentration in Finance requires a minimum of 120 hours to graduate. You may complete this degree entirely online through UofM Global or in combination with previously completed college level learning from other sources. Contact Us Apply Now About UofM Global Learn More Ranked Online Degrees Accreditations Contact Us Degrees and Programs Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs Certificates Corporate Partners Complimentary Courses Admissions Apply Now Request Info Financial Aid Tuition & Fees Contact Us Tuition Financial Aid Students Canvas Student Services & Support SmartStart Learning Support Technology Support Advising Register for Courses Experiential Learning Credit Graduation Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 1/22/21 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.