Search | Directories | Reference Tools UW Home > Discover UW > Student Guide UW Bothell Course Descriptions UW Tacoma Course Descriptions Glossary COLLEGE OF ARTS & SCIENCES HISTORY HISTORY OF LATIN AMERICA & THE CARIBBEAN Detailed course offerings (Time Schedule) are available for Spring Quarter 2022 Summer Quarter 2022 Autumn Quarter 2022 HSTLAC 185 Race, Gender, and Class in Latin America and the Caribbean (5) I&S, DIV Explores the power struggles generated by imperial expansion, colonialism, and processes of nation-formation (1400 to the present) in the forging of Latin America and the Caribbean. Examines how gender, race, sex, and class became crucial means to sustain, navigate, and challenge domination as well as to imagine alternative futures. View course details in MyPlan: HSTLAC 185 HSTLAC 280 Drug Wars in Latin America (5) I&S, DIV Ileana M. Rodriguez-Silva Analyses "War on Drugs" in Latin America as political, economic, and socio-cultural construct. Investigates local, regional and global dynamics rendering some mood-altering substances as legal while subjecting others to prohibitionist policies at different historical times. Explores racial, class and gender logics shaping these processes. Examines how informal economies are well entrenched within longstanding, transnational institutions. View course details in MyPlan: HSTLAC 280 HSTLAC 282 History of Mexico: Culture, Identity, and the Politics of Rule from the Aztecs to the Present (5) I&S, DIV Adam W Warren Overview of Mexican history from late Aztec times until the twenty-first century. Emphasizes how women, campesinos, indigenous populations, free and enslaved Afro-Mexicans, and the urban poor experienced the past, challenged colonial and post-colonial rule, and shaped modern Mexican society and culture. View course details in MyPlan: HSTLAC 282 HSTLAC 285 Latin American History through Film (5) VLPA/I&S Critical analysis of Latin American films as historical documents. Subjects include Iberian conquest and colonialism, the struggle for independence in the nineteenth century, social revolutions of the twentieth century, and problems of contemporary development. Readings and lectures place each film in the context of the historiography of the subject matter. View course details in MyPlan: HSTLAC 285 HSTLAC 289 Cuban Revolution (5) I&S, DIV Ileana M. Rodriguez-Silva The Cuban Revolution as a site of convergence and contestation of different projects and visions on how to build a more equitable future. Course covers conventional issues (U.S. interventions, charismatic political leadership, Soviet influences, the state apparatus) but will privilege the making of the revolution from the ground up. View course details in MyPlan: HSTLAC 289 HSTLAC 325 Modern Mexico: Culture, Politics and Society (5) I&S V. Freije Provides an historical survey of Mexican politics, culture, and society. Explores debates about the role of violence and foreign intervention in Mexico's political development. Topics include revolution, U.S.-Mexico relations, race and gender politics, student movements, cultural production, neoliberalism, and the war on drugs. Offered: jointly with JSIS A 325. View course details in MyPlan: HSTLAC 325 HSTLAC 384 Latin America: Inter-American and Intra-Continental Relations (5) I&S Inter-American relations, focusing on the United States' diplomatic and military responses to the problems of Latin America since 1776. Intra-Latin American relations and regional organizations (e.g., the Organization of American States). View course details in MyPlan: HSTLAC 384 HSTLAC 385 Colonial Society and the Negotiation of Rule in Latin America and the Caribbean (5) I&S, DIV Examines the transition to Spanish and Portuguese rule in Latin America and the establishment, and eventual demise, of colonial systems linking Latin America to Europe and Africa. Asks how "colonized" groups mediated forms of colonial oppression and contributed to the development of colonial political culture. View course details in MyPlan: HSTLAC 385 HSTLAC 386 The Challenges of Post-Coloniality in Latin America and the Caribbean (5) I&S, DIV Explores the legacies of, and ruptures from, colonialism and the new challenges Latin American and Caribbean peoples faced throughout the years after their struggles for independence from direct European rule. Emphasis on analysis of the negotiations and challenges entailed in the dynamic processes of national state formation in comparative perspective. View course details in MyPlan: HSTLAC 386 HSTLAC 481 History of Peru and the Andean Region (5) I&S Traces the history of Peru specifically and the Andean highlands generally, from Inca times to the present, examining the shifting relationship between peasants, indigenous peoples, and the state. Analyzes historically why modern forms of peasant and indigenous political power differs radically between Peru, Bolivia, and Ecuador. View course details in MyPlan: HSTLAC 481 HSTLAC 482 The History of Brazil: Colonial Period to the Present (5) I&S Colonial foundations; the first and second empires; the old and new republics; current problems; prospects for the future. View course details in MyPlan: HSTLAC 482 HSTLAC 488 History of the Caribbean and Central America (5) I&S Political, social, and economic history of principal countries in the Caribbean and Central America from their discovery to the present. View course details in MyPlan: HSTLAC 488 HSTLAC 490 Topics in Latin American and Caribbean History (2-5, max. 15) I&S Topics in Latin American and Caribbean history. View course details in MyPlan: HSTLAC 490 HSTLAC 581 Latin American History: Colonial Period (3-6, max. 6) View course details in MyPlan: HSTLAC 581 HSTLAC 582 Latin American History: National Period (3-6, max. 6) View course details in MyPlan: HSTLAC 582 HSTLAC 583 Seminar in Latin American History ([3-6]-, max. 12) Problems of historical research in the history of Latin America from colonial beginnings to the present. View course details in MyPlan: HSTLAC 583 HSTLAC 584 Seminar in Latin American History (-[3-6]-, max. 12) Problems of historical research in the history of Latin America from colonial beginnings to the present. View course details in MyPlan: HSTLAC 584 HSTLAC 585 Seminar in Latin American History (-[3-6], max. 12) Problems of historical research in the history of Latin America from colonial beginnings to the present. View course details in MyPlan: HSTLAC 585 Office of the University Registrar registrar@uw.edu Modified: May 30, 2022