Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Apply Visit Give Information For Current Students Alumni Recruiters Search BC.edu Links Menu Main Nav Back Back Close About Overview Dean's Message Why the Carroll School? Diversity & Inclusion Diversity News Accreditation Board of Advisors Faculty Openings Visit Contact Related Links About Boston College Maps & Directions BC News Undergraduate Overview Academics Advising Peer Advisors Staff Advisors Concentrations Minors The Kevin Eidt Memorial Scholarship Career Accelerator Summer Management Catalyst Program Portico Careers Social Media CSOM Undergraduate Career Resources Placement Data Career Accelerator Study Abroad Community & Student Life FAQ CSOM Undergrad FAQs: COVID-19 Mar 13: Letter From Undergraduate Dean's Office Mar 20: Registration and Advising Updates Contact Graduate Overview Admission Visits and Events Tuition and Aid O’Brien Fellowship Graduate Admission FAQ International Applicants Information for U.S. Military MBA Programs Full-Time MBA Part-Time MBA Data Analytics Sequence Electives Applied Learning BC MBA Ambassadors M.S. Programs M.S. in Finance M.S. in Accounting Ph.D. Programs Ph.D. in Accounting Ph.D. in Finance Ph.D. in Organization Studies Community & Student Life Living in Boston Career Development Faculty Overview Faculty Directory Part-Time Faculty Faculty Expertise Departments Overview Concentrations Academics Accounting Undergraduate Concentrations Seminar Series Careers Message From the Chairperson Business Analytics Concentration & Academics Careers Seminar Series Message From the Chairperson Business Law & Society Finance Academics and Study Abroad F22 Registration Info Faculty Ph.D. Program Seminar Series Job Market Candidates Message From the Chairperson Information Systems Concentration & Academics Message From the Chairperson Seminar Series Management & Organization Concentration & Academics Seminar Series Careers Message From the Chairperson Marketing Concentration & Academics Careers Awards and Appointments Faculty Message From the Chairperson Fall 2022 Registration Centers Close Directory A to Z Listing Search Carroll School Search BC.edu Find pages or people Search Close Close Apply Visit Give Current Students Alumni Recruiters BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close Home Undergraduate Academics Portico Academics Advising Concentrations Minors The Kevin Eidt Memorial Scholarship Career Accelerator Summer Management Catalyst Program Portico Portico Educating Ethical Leaders What sort of life do you want to lead? How can you manage others and direct organizations ethically? In what ways will you choose to impact the world? How can business be a force for good in the global world? These questions form the core of our distinctive Portico course—a three-credit entry point for all first-year Carroll School students that examines business from global, multidisciplinary, ethical, and social perspectives. Portico introduces students to the Carroll School’s rich resources and the breadth of contemporary business—including its evolution, emerging opportunities, and current practice. The course includes: A shared summer reading that fosters a sense of community Personalized advising Case studies Group projects Talks by influential guest speakers Self-reflections that encourage students to consider how to shape lives of meaning Written work assessing the ability to make connections between business and philosophy Small group discussion on current moral dilemmas facing business With a strong focus on philosophical reflection, students develop a greater sense of self-awareness and a clearer understanding of their place in the world. Steadfast Support Piloted in 2008, Portico now features an interdisciplinary team of six faculty and over 50 teaching assistants. Students meet twice a week in small classes with a professor—who also serves as their first-year advisor—and once a week for a plenary session with influential speakers. With the help of professors and TAs, students create a practical plan for the rest of their time at Boston College, discerning their interests and outlining which courses they’ll complete to graduate on time. View More View Less Be attentive. Be reflective. Be loving. Those words of advice are not what you’d expect to hear in a typical management class, but they sum up the aims of the Carroll School’s signature Portico course. Read More Watch the video Back To Top Back To Top Carroll School of Management Fulton Hall Boston College 140 Commonwealth Avenue Chestnut Hill, MA 02467-3809 About the Carroll School Undergraduate Graduate Faculty & Research Departments Centers Contact Accreditation Apply Visit Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkedIn Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College