Skip to main content Student Financial Services Columbia University in the City of New York Search Submit SFSCU Undergraduates Graduate Students Veterans & Service Members Parents & Families Work-Study Financial Wellness Menu > Undergraduates Financial Aid Work-Study Bills & Payments Financial Wellness Graduate Students Financial Aid Work-Study Bills & Payments Financial Wellness Veterans & Service Members Getting Started General Information Fed Loan Benefits Financial Wellness Parents & Families Financial Aid Bills & Payments Work-Study Work-Study Financial Wellness Financial Wellness You are here Home About Us About Us On This Page: Our Goal | Student Service Center | Student Financial Planning | Loans | Payments & Deposits Office | Accounting | Collections and Receivables | Work-Study Program | Military and Veteran Affairs | Registration and Financial Services at CUMC Our goal at Student Financial Services is to partner with all University Schools to support the removal of financial barriers that might stand in your way, so you can be free to pursue your academic endeavors. Most Schools at Columbia have their own financial aid office. Use our contact list to find yours. For other needs, use the links above or scroll through the listing below to find the right team to help you. Student Service Center Contact us with questions about the Student Account, Tuition & Fees, Refunds, and Academic Certifications. (For detailed registration, grades and transcript questions, please contact the Office of the Registrar.) Location: 210 Kent Hall Hours: 9:00 a.m. – 5:00 p.m., Monday – Friday Phone: +1-212-854-4400 Email: [email protected] Online Q&A tool Website: http://ssc.columbia.edu Mailing Address: 210 Kent Hall, Mail Code 9202 1140 Amsterdam Ave. New York, NY 10027 To Top Student Financial Planning (SFP) - Architecture, Arts, Graduate Engineering, and Professional Studies SFP provides financial aid counseling for Architecture, Arts, Graduate Engineering, and Professional Studies students. For all other schools, please contact your individual school. Location: 210 Kent Hall Hours: 9:00 a.m. – 5:00 p.m., Monday – Friday Email Us Phone: +1-212-854-7040 Fax: +1-212-854-2818 Online Q&A tool Mailing Address: 210 Kent Hall, MC 9203 1140 Amsterdam Ave. New York, NY 10027 To Top Loans Contact us with questions about: HPSL and Institutional loan disclosures and certification Federal Perkins, HPSL, LDS and PCL promissory notes Delinquent Federal Perkins, Institutional and HPSL, LDS and PCL loans Loan cancellations and deferments for Federal Perkins loans Institutional and HPSL, LDS and PCL loans Loan Holds related to Exit Counseling Student Loan Holds on SIS Location: Studebaker Bldg., 6th Floor Hours: 9:00 a.m. – 5:00 p.m., Monday – Friday Online Q&A tool Email Us If your last name begins with A-F, email [email protected] If your last name begins with G-O, email [email protected] If your last name begins with P-Z, email [email protected] Call Us: If your last name begins with A-F, dial +1 (212) 854-8211 If your last name begins with G-O, dial +1 (212) 854-7213 If your last name begins with P-Z, dial +1 (212) 854-3722 To Top Payments and Deposits Office Contact us with questions about paper checks, in-person payments, and stipend disbursements and other payments to students. You can reach us between 9:00 a.m. – 5:00 p.m., Monday – Friday via: Online Q&A tool (https://askus.columbia.edu/) Email Us (mailto:[email protected]) Phone: +1-212-854-1541 Morningside Location: 210 Kent Hall Depositing Departmental Cash and Non-Sponsored Projects Finance and Non-Gift Checks Departments should discourage the acceptance of cash and checks and provide payers with electronic options. For information about receiving payments electronically, please visit Treasury Request Forms in ServiceNow. If it is not possible to receive electronic payments, Morningside departments may deposit cash/checks at the bank where current deposits are being made (Chase or Bank of America). CUIMC Departments can continue their current process of making cash/check deposits at Chase branches. Checks deposited through departmental RDC machines or bank mobile applications will continue to be processed using current procedures. Please create a Finance Service Ticket for policy, bank account information, and detailed instructions, including utilizing the Bank of America CashPro mobile application on a cellphone to make check deposits. In any situation in which a Morningside department is unable to make a deposit of cash or checks as described above, those departments can make cash deposits into the Smartsafe, or make check deposits at the Payments & Deposits office by making an appointment beforehand. Students Payments and Deposits Students are encouraged to make payments online via their SSOL student accounts. If it is not possible to make payments online, please find other ways to pay from the SFS website. Students are encouraged to set up domestic bank accounts to receive stipends via direct deposits. In the situation in which a student is unable to set up direct deposit, the stipend checks will be mailed to the student’s US address on record. Students are welcome to make an appointment with the Payments and Deposits office for consultation via a Zoom session or visit us at 210 Kent Hall. To Top Accounting Reconciliation and Control Monitoring Contact us with questions regarding wire payments; Tuition Assistance Payments (TAP); summer stipend processing; SIS fund code set-up; SIS to ARC interface and data transfers; and departmental inquiries re: SIS data posting to ARC. You can reach us between 9:00 a.m. – 5:00 p.m., Monday – Friday via: Online Q&A tool Email Us To Top Student Accounts Collections and Receivables - Enrolled and Non-enrolled Students Contact us with questions about: delinquent student accounts for students who are no longer enrolled six (6) months payment agreement Columbia University’s Past Due Notification program, including telephone call outreach, mailings and e-mail notifications, Holds related to Prior Term Balances Holds related to write-off of past due balances Collection Holds, Collection Agency Inquiries and Inquiries related to accounts referred to the University’s attorney Location: Studebaker Bldg., 6th Floor Hours: 9:00 a.m. – 5:00 p.m., Monday – Friday Online Q&A tool Email Us To Top Work-Study Location: 208 Kent Hall Hours: 9:00 a.m. – 5:00 p.m., Monday – Friday Email Us Phone: +1-212-854-1770 Fax: +1-212-854-4777 Online Q&A tool Mailing Address: 208 Kent Hall, MC 9207 1140 Amsterdam Ave. New York, NY 10027 To Top Military and Veteran Affairs Contact us with questions about support for and oversight of educational and other benefits for student veterans and service members. Location: 210 Kent Hall Hours: 9:00 a.m. – 5:00 p.m., Monday – Friday Email Us Phone: +1-212-854-3161 Online Q&A tool To Top Registration and Financial Services at CUMC Medical Center Location: 1-141 Black Building, Unit 45 Hours: 9:00 a.m. – 4:30 p.m., Monday – Friday Phone: +1-212-342-4790 Online Q&A tool Mailing Address: 1-141 Black Building, Unit 45 630 West 168th Street New York, NY 10032 To Top OUR LEADERSHIP TEAM Jane M. Hojan-Clark, Ph.D. Associate Vice President [email protected] Tamika Peaker Executive Assistant tb2232[email protected] Lichinia Beltré Executive Director, Compliance [email protected] David Seltzer Executive Director, University Financial Aid [email protected] Nida Williams Executive Director, Accounting and Business Management (Office of the Bursar) [email protected] View Complete SFS Staff Contact List Go to Columbia University Directory Quick Links SSOL Forms & Docs Administrator Portal Alumni Information About Us Contact Our Service Centers Departments Registrar ID Center E-Billing Housing Dining Health Forms SFS Forms Veterans Forms HR Forms Finance Forms CUMC IT Service Forms IT Systems Email Services SIS SSOL Software Downloads myColumbia ARC Portal Training Courseworks Lynda.com Getting Help Service Center Ask Us IT Help Office Locations © 2022 The Trustees of Columbia University in the City of New York