Covid-19: Get the latest updates here Apply to JTS Contact Campus Life Alumni Get Email Updates Donate Now Search About Higher Education Emergency Relief Fund Leadership History JTS and Israel Conservative Judaism Offices & Resources Policies Accreditation Visit JTS Admissions List College Admissions Davidson School Admissions Rabbinical School Admissions Gershon Kekst Graduate School Admissions H. L. Miller Cantorial School Admissions Take a Virtual Tour Academics Academics School List College The William Davidson School The Rabbinical School The Gershon Kekst Graduate School H. L. Miller Cantorial School Faculty & Scholars Faculty & Scholars Center & Institutes Center for Pastoral Education Block / Kolker Center for Spiritual Arts The Hendel Center for Ethics and Justice Milstein Center for Interreligious Dialogue Louis Finkelstein Institute for Religious & Social Studies Research Institutes Summer Programs Nishma Summer Sessions Summer Hebrew Language Courses Professional Training Professional Training CONTINUING EDUCATION FOR CLERGY The Rabbinic Training Institute (RTI) Summer Rabbinic Learning Conference Online Learning for Rabbis and Cantors FOR JEWISH EDUCATORS Day School Leadership Training Institute (DSLTI) Jewish Early Childhood Education Leadership Institute (JECELI) Ivriyon: Hebrew Immersion Institute for Day School Educators Jewish Day School Standards and Benchmarks FOR OTHER PROFESSIONALS NAASE Week of Study Community Learning Community Learning ONLINE Live Online Classes JTS Torah Online BEYOND THE CAMPUS JTS Learning in Your Community Courses and Curricula LEARNING EVENTS Public Lectures and Events FOR 8TH-12TH GRADERS Prozdor Teen Learning Library About The Library Letter from the Librarian Library Services The New JTS Library Library Programs and Events Library Online Exhibits Special Collections JTS Library Membership Email a Librarian News & Events News Events Academic Calendar The Rabbinical School Academics The Rabbinical School About Beit Midrash Iyun Spiritual Mentoring Rabbinical School Fellowships Rabbinical School Administration At The Rabbinical School of JTS we train the head, the heart, and the hands. We are a modern yeshiva, offering intensive study of classical texts in an egalitarian setting. We are a university with world-class scholars devoted to critical inquiry. And we are a cutting-edge professional school, training students to be transformative Jewish leaders. A Modern Yeshiva At JTS, you’ll find a traditional, egalitarian community that is passionately devoted to Jewish learning and practice. Our Beit Midrash hums with the intense discussions of students parsing the meaning of classical Jewish texts. Our synagogue is filled with regular prayer throughout the day, and the meals and songs we share on Shabbat and festivals deepen our sense of community and purpose. Beit Midrash JTS and Israel A World-Class University JTS is a university that values open and critical discourse, with a world-class faculty comprising leading scholars in nearly every field of Jewish studies. We explore not only texts but contexts, seeking to understand the Jewish experience through every lens. There is no limit to the study and research opportunities at JTS, with MA, DHL, and PhD degree programs, the renowned JTS Library, and an extraordinary variety of course offerings. Iyun Program JTS Academics A Cutting-Edge Professional School JTS is both a professional school and a laboratory for training and mentoring the next generation of Jewish leaders, preachers, pastors, educators, and social justice advocates. The Rabbinical School draws upon a wealth of resources to offer our students an unmatched professional experience, with access to a unique combination of people and programs found only at JTS: The Center for Pastoral Education The Block / Kolker Center for Spiritual Arts The William Davidson Graduate School of Jewish Education H. L. Miller Cantorial School The National Offices of Camp Ramah The Rabbinical Assembly Where Our Students Go JTS rabbis are among the most influential and inspiring religious leaders in North America and the world. They are bringing creativity and fresh insights to schools, congregations, camps, and nonprofit organizations, and have founded some of the most successful new ventures in the Jewish world, including Avodah, Hadar, Ikar, and Encounter. Meet Our Alumni Candidate Profile Academic Calendar View calendar RESOURCES Current Students Faculty & Scholars CONNECT WITH US Get Email Updates Visit Give Social Media © The Jewish Theological Seminary All Rights Reserved | בית המדרש ללימודי יהדות 3080 Broadway, New York, NY 10027 Privacy Policy x Share This Page From Name(Required) From Email(Required) To Email(Required) Message