Skip to main content School of Arts & Sciences College of Arts & Sciences Graduate Division College of Liberal and Professional Studies University of Pennsylvania Vagelos Integrated Program in Energy Research Toggle navigation Main navigation Home Program About Program Leadership Roy & Diana Vagelos Our Students Student Profiles VIPER Student Board Honors and Awards Student Features Admissions Prospective Students How to Apply Transfer into VIPER Frequently Asked Questions Connect With Us Academics Curriculum Energy Courses Approved Majors Sample Schedules Resources Research Research Experiences Summer Research at Penn Publications Alumni VIPER Alumni Board Alumni Resources News Events Contact Search VIPER | Vagelos Integrated Program in Energy Research VIPER Student Lounge VIPER students have exclusive access to the VIPER Student Lounge -- a space where they can study, socialize, and meet new VIPERs! This space is equipped with a printer that students can use for free printing, a flat screen TV, and ample white board space. A Parting Graduation Gift All VIPER graduating seniors receive a custom VIPER graduation stole upon completing the program. Each VIPER senior class gets to design and choose the colors for their class stole. Practice Communicating Science Communicating science effectively to help audiences understand your work is important, in all scientific fields and especially when it comes our work in energy. Students gain practice talking about their research to audiences from all different backgrounds and receive feedback and guidance to help them grow as scientists and engineers! Learning in the Lab Julia Fordham (VIPER '16) from the inaugural VIPER graduating class conducted research in the laboratory of Professor Christopher Murray. Photo credit: Kevin Monko/Kelsh Wilson Design Hands-On Research Experiences Mohammed Suleiman (VIPER '24) conducts research in the laboratory of Professor Thomas Mallouk in the Department of Chemistry. Mohammed spent the summer synthesizing and characterizing materials for possible use in fuel cells, devices that produce electricity from chemical reactions. Photo credit: Gloria Lee (VIPER '23) News VIPER is hiring a full-time Administrative Assistant, together with the Vagelos Institute for Energy Science and Technology The Vagelos Integrated Program in Energy Research and the Vagelos Institute for Energy Science and Technology are jointly hiring an Administrative Assistant to support both organizations.Read More The Water-Energy Nexus: Opportunities and Innovations VIPER and the Water Center recently collaborated to put together the Water-Energy Nexus: Opportunities and Innovation!Read More VIPER Now Accepting Transfer Applications! VIPER is now accepting applications from first-year Penn students interested in transferring into the program. Read More Welcome The Vagelos Integrated Program in Energy Research (VIPER) is a dual-degree undergraduate program at Penn that prepares highly talented students to advance sustainable energy science and technology. Learn More! Featured Students Emma Glasser (VIPER '22) Emma Glasser is from Princeton, New Jersey, and graduated from Princeton High School. She plans on studying Materials Science and Engineering and Earth and Environmental Science. …Read Bio Bhaskar Abhiraman (VIPER '21) Bhaskar Abhiraman is from New Canaan, Connecticut, where he graduated from New Canaan High School. He developed a love for scientific research when he studied select genes in the parasite…Read Bio Luka Yancopoulos (VIPER '20) Luka Yancopoulos is from Yorktown Heights, New York. He entered VIPER with the intent to major in Bioengineering and Earth and Environmental Science. Luka always has been interested in the…Read Bio On April 7, 2016, seniors in the Vagelos Integrated Program in Energy Research (VIPER) presented their capstone research and design projects. The Class of 2016 is the program's first graduating class. Resources Center for Undergraduate Research and Fellowships (CURF) National Science Foundation Research Experiences for Undergraduates College Alumni Society Undergraduate Research Grant Contact Us Vagelos Integrated Program in Energy Research 231 S. 34th St. Philadelphia, PA 19104-6323 Chemistry '73, Room 549 (215) 573-8098 contact-viper@sas.upenn.edu Prof. Andrew M. Rappe Co-Faculty Director Prof. John M. Vohs Co-Faculty Director Dr. Michelle Hutchings Managing Director © 2022 The Trustees of the University of Pennsylvania Penn Weblogin