Skip to main content Temple University Explore Temple’s Schools and Colleges Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Support Temple Temple University Search Site Search Full Menu Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees President History & Traditions Temple Health News & Media Offices Public Information Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Development Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Libraries Construction Engineering Technology Major You are here Home Academics Degrees and Programs Construction Engineering Technology Major Apply Request More Info Construction Engineering Technology Major Admissions Careers, Internships & Opportunities Our Faculty Required Courses Scholarships & Financial Aid Construction Engineering Technology Major The Bachelor of Science in Construction Engineering Technology (BSCET) prepares you to be an applied engineer who translates the design engineer’s blueprints into physical and functional reality. Combine aspects of business, construction and engineering and oversee the implementation of large or small construction projects and their safety and compliance with project requirements. Based in the Department of Civil and Environmental Engineering, this highly focused 124-credit hour degree program will help you develop construction techniques and management principles for expertise in best building practices and safety regulations, construction contracts, construction methods and materials, construction planning and scheduling, and project specifications and cost estimates. The program also covers topics relating to geotechnical, safety, structural and transportation principles. Many students in this degree program are also working professionals. The flexibility of this program allows you to continue to work while obtaining your degree. Most classes are scheduled between late afternoon and early evening. You will graduate with the knowledge to hold positions such as construction field supervisor, construction manager, cost analyst, detailer, plan examiner for government agencies project engineer or project planner. Co-ops Cooperative education (co-op) is an optional program that can provide you with the opportunity to work professionally before graduation. Students apply the knowledge they have learned in the classroom to real-world problems in the field. A co-op will help you create valuable connections with industry professionals, build a strong résumé and have an enhanced perspective on your field. Tuition & Fees In keeping with Temple’s commitment to access and affordability, the Bachelor of Science in Construction Engineering Technology offers a competitive level of tuition with multiple opportunities for financial support. Tuition rates are set annually by the university and are affected by multiple factors, including program degree level (undergraduate or graduate), course load (full- or part-time), in-state or out-of-state residency, and more. Learn more about our tuition and fees. These tuition costs apply to the 2021–2022 academic year. Pennsylvania resident: $20,808.00 per year Out-of-state: $33,984.00 per year Laptop Requirement The College of Engineering requires that students own a laptop for their engineering coursework by their junior year of study. Learn more about the hardware recommendation. +1 Accelerated Degree Programs The College of Engineering also offers accelerated +1 Bachelor-Master programs. Qualifying students earn a bachelor’s degree and a master’s degree in one five-year course of study, instead of the usual six years. Construction Engineering Technology majors can earn a Master of Science in Civil Engineering in one year. Graduate courses taken as an undergraduate in this program are charged at the undergraduate rate. Learn more about the College of Engineering’s accelerated programs. Our Academic Advisors Through advising workshops, career coaching, individual appointments and walk-in advising, support services are available to all undergraduate Engineering students. Such services range from academic mentoring, career development, choosing a major, degree planning, learning support and post-graduation planning. All academic advisors are available Monday through Friday, 8:30 a.m. to 5 p.m., to answer questions regarding General Education (GenEd), college and major requirements, and university academic policies and procedures. Learn more about the Center for Academic Advising and Student Affairs. Student Clubs & Organizations Participating in one or more of the College of Engineering’s 15 student groups usually also means greater success at Temple. Further, you’ll find peer support and like-minded students, and have opportunities to affect positive change, either locally or around the world. Among other groups, students can join the Construction Management Association of America Student Chapter, which provides professional networking opportunities, seminars and site visits. Student Competitions Each year, Temple Engineering students compete rigorously in regional and national events that celebrate design, engineering and innovation, including the Associated Schools of Construction student competition and the Design Build Institute of America student competition. Study Away Opportunities Give your construction engineering technology studies exposure to foreign culture and learning. Learn more about study abroad opportunities. Accreditation Temple’s BSCET in Construction Engineering Technology is accredited by the Engineering Technology Accreditation Commission of the Accreditation Board for Engineering Technology (ABET). Learn more about our accreditation, program educational objectives and student outcomes. EN-CNET-BSCT Additional Program Information Visit College Site View Program Details Go back to AcademicsMore in Construction Engineering Technology Major Admissions Careers, Internships & Opportunities Our Faculty Required Courses Scholarships & Financial Aid Apply Request More Info Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Calendar Policies Social Media TUportal TUmail Accessibility Careers at Temple Safety & Emergency Information Ethics & Compliance Privacy Statement Professional Licensure Disclosures Follow Temple University Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community. Apply Request More Info