COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW Details: Chemistry, Doctorate DoctorateChemistry All Programs Fairmount College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Chemistry and Biochemistry Wichita State's Doctor of Philosophy (PhD) in chemistry is available for both bachelor's and master's degree holders looking to maximize their career and research potential—leading to leadership roles in academia, industry and government. Learn how Chemistry is the right fit for you. Request Info Start Your Application Applied learning at Wichita State At Wichita State, applied learning is everything. In fact, every degree we offer has a guaranteed applied learning or research experience built right into it equipping you with the relevant skills and experience to make you workforce ready before graduation. Learn about our innovative approach Admission to the program Admission into the program requires: A baccalaureate degree in chemistry A minimum GPA of 3.0 (both overall and in chemistry) Two letters of recommendation from individuals familiar with the applicant's academic background A one-page typed statement of goals and research interests Submission of test scores from the general GRE exam For additional admission details, click on the link below. Admission requirements Inside the Program Chemistry students participate in cancer research As a chemistry student, you have the opportunity to work with faculty who are on the cutting edge of research. Moriah Beck, assistant professor of chemistry at Wichita State, focuses much of her research on how cancer spreads. In her lab, which includes nine undergraduate and graduate students, she researches the human protein called palladin, a key regulator of our cells' most abundant protein actin. Curriculum The Ph.D. normally requires three-to-five years of advanced study, with a major focus on research. Ph.D. candidates complete an original body of research to support a scientific thesis which they must defend before obtaining their degree. All Ph.D. students are required to take 24 credit hours of graduate chemistry courses comprised of core studies and focused courses. To complete the program, students must also pass a series of assessment and cumulative exams. View the curriculum Careers A Ph.D. in chemistry from Wichita State opens doors with employers in many fields—from chemical manufacturing and health care to government, academic teaching and research. Learn more about careers in this field 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©