Skip to main content Skip to main navigation Research Menu About News Our Research Commitment Research Contacts Find A Researcher White Eye Detector: How Baylor Research Fights Pediatric Eye Disease Meals-to-You Baylor University Celebrates Four 2020 CAREER Grant Winners Baylor Celebrates National STEM Day Highlights Health Data Sciences Materials Science Human Flourishing, Leadership & Ethics Baylor in Latin America Other Research Initiatives Facilities, Centers & Institutes FAQ Priorities Industry Professionals Baylor Researchers R1 Impact A Preeminent Christian Research University Baylor>Research>About A Preeminent Christian Research University Baylor University’s singular role as an expressly Christian research university—propelled by faculty, staff, graduate students and undergraduate students who recognize a calling to address society’s greatest challenges and solve the world’s most vexing problems—has compelled us to pursue greater impact. Our vision? To become the world’s preeminent Christian research university. In 2021, Baylor University achieved recognition as a Research 1 institution by the Carnegie Classification of Institutions of Higher Education, placing Baylor among the nation's elite research universities . Illuminate, Baylor’s strategic plan, provided the framework and commitment to investment that guided Baylor to R1 recognition and charts a course for further growth and impact. Baylor’s centuries-old call “to meet the needs of all the ages to come” continues through research marked by quality, visibility and impact, undergirded by Baylor’s faith foundation and historic strength in undergraduate education. Across campus and around the world, faculty engage in research at the highest levels as they fight disease, investigate environmental challenges, pioneer new technologies and advance human flourishing. Such work has long built on Baylor’s distinct mission in higher education. It has also laid a foundation and prepared the University for even greater breakthroughs. Now, more than ever before, the mission to bring light to the world by illuminating solutions through high-level research is a priority throughout the Baylor Family. Learn more about the ways research by Baylor’s faculty impacts the world. Their work, enhanced by a culture of collaboration across the disciplines, is fully aligned with the aspirations of a Christian research university dedicated to unleashing faculty and students alike to discover meaningful solutions for the betterment of the world. As President Linda A. Livingstone, Ph.D., simply stated in her 2017 inauguration address: “The world needs a Baylor.” About News Our Research Commitment Research Contacts Find A Researcher White Eye Detector: How Baylor Research Fights Pediatric Eye Disease Download White Eye Detector (App Store) Meals-to-You Baylor University Celebrates Four 2020 CAREER Grant Winners Baylor Celebrates National STEM Day General Information Colleges, Schools, Libraries & Research Admissions Administration Gateways For... About Baylor Anonymous Reporting Athletics Ask Baylor Bookstore Calendar Campus Map Directory Give Light Give to Baylor Illuminate Mental Health Resources News Pro Futuris Report It Search Social Media Title IX Baylor Libraries College of Arts & Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work George W. Truett Theological Seminary Graduate School Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Louise Herrington School of Nursing Research at Baylor University Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Engineering & Computer Science School of Music More Academics Undergraduate Admissions goBAYLOR Graduate Admissions Baylor Law School Admissions Social Work Graduate Programs George W. Truett Theological Seminary Admissions Online Graduate Professional Education Virtual Tour Visit Campus Annual Fire Safety and Security Notice Athletics Human Resources Marketing and Communications Office of General Counsel Office of the President Office of the Provost Operations, Finance & Administration Senior Administration Student Life University Advancement Baylor Alumni Faculty & Staff Online Graduate Professional Education Parents Prospective Faculty & Staff Prospective Students Students Copyright © Baylor® University. All rights reserved. Legal Disclosures. Baylor University • Waco, Texas 76798 • 1-800-229-5678 About News Our Research Commitment Research Contacts Find A Researcher White Eye Detector: How Baylor Research Fights Pediatric Eye Disease Meals-to-You Baylor University Celebrates Four 2020 CAREER Grant Winners Baylor Celebrates National STEM Day Highlights Health Data Sciences Materials Science Human Flourishing, Leadership & Ethics Baylor in Latin America Other Research Initiatives Facilities, Centers & Institutes FAQ Priorities Industry Professionals Baylor Researchers R1 Impact