Skip to main content Google Tag Manager Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Prospective Newly Admitted Current Alumni Columbia University School of General Studies Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Admissions Educational Financing Academics Student Services About Undergraduate Admissions How to Apply Eligibility Application Deadlines and Decisions Information Sessions/Campus Visits Transfer Students Postbac Premed Admissions How to Apply Eligibility Application Deadlines and Decisions Information Sessions/Campus Visits Newly Admitted Students International Students Planning Day Placement Exams University-Wide Placement Exams U.S. Military Veterans International Dual Degree Programs Types of Financial Aid Institutional Scholarships Federal and State Grants Loans Private Scholarships and Grants Student Employment Financial Aid for Military Veterans Post-9/11 GI Bill® and the Yellow Ribbon Program Veterans Request for Certification Cost of Attendance Applying for Financial Aid Prospective Students Newly Admitted Students Current Students University Employees Postbac Premed Students Counseling Appointments Enrollment Update Form Student Account Refunds Undergraduate The Core Curriculum Degree Fulfillment Course Listings Majors and Concentrations Research Opportunities Study Abroad Academic Calendar Postbac Premed Program Curriculum & Courses Sample Schedule Course Listings Preparatory Coursework Previously Completed Coursework Glide Year Master’s Programs Academic Calendar Applying to Medical School General Admission Linkage Admission Linkage Specific Program Requirements Reapplicants Letters of Recommendation Academic Policies Registration Enrollment and Courseload Leaves and Withdrawals Academic Integrity and Standards Faculty of Arts and Sciences Undergraduate Announcements Postbac Premed Announcements Academic Advising Academic Resource Center Programs & Services Jumpstart Series Tutoring Peer Advising Campus Services Forms and Guides Graduation Health and Wellness Housing International Students Medical School Fair Planning Your Future Accelerated Master's Programs Fellowships and Research Premedical Clinical and Research Positions Student Life Leadership Development Multicultural & Social Justice Education Programs Student Organizations Upcoming Events Veterans Resources and Initiatives Leadership Mission History Statistics and Facts Notable Alumni University Policies Events Staff Directory Faculty News Press Coverage Media Inquiries School of General Studies You are here: Home News 2022 Grad Profile: Daniel Harrich Profile 2022 Grad Profile: Daniel Harrich May 09, 2022 Daniel Harrich Dual BA Program with Sciences Po Where are you from? Syria and Austria Major: Financial economics Tell us about your path to GS! I remember applying to colleges during my senior year of high school in 2018. The decision I had to make involved not only weighing the academic offerings of a university and the knowledge I was hoping to get out of the classroom, but also the many non-academic parts of college life that come with living in a place for four years. For me, the thought of living in a single place for four years was probably one of the most daunting challenges about college! Before I joined the Dual BA Program Between Columbia University and Sciences Po, I was used to moving countries around every two years. My dad’s job took us all over the world: Kosovo, Sudan, Sri Lanka, Malaysia, Syria, and Lebanon. I quickly realized that the Dual BA would be a perfect way for me to challenge myself not only academically, but also by virtue of having the chance to live in France and later in New York. As a Syrian-Austrian student, I knew I had to choose Sciences Po’s Middle Eastern-focused campus in Menton. As I look back at these four years, I would do it all over again if ever given the chance. The Dual BA program has been one of the most rewarding adventures I’ve ever had. I have learned so much about myself and the world around me, and above all made friendships that I know will last many years to come. What has been your proudest Columbia moment? Without a doubt it has to be when my parents and sister visited me in December of this year. I’m sure their trip was even more special because it was my mom and my sister’s first time in the U.S. I felt an indescribable sense of joy when we walked through the gates of College Walk on 116th Street together, and I am so thankful for all they’ve done to make it possible for me to be here. Without them, this wouldn't be possible. Who are some people who have contributed the most to your Columbia experience? The entire Dual BA community (across all partner universities) was my home-away-from-home. And the GS community at large, with all the support systems in place (from Deans, to advisors, and even alumni) have been the defining part of my college experience. When I think back to these four years, the people I’ve met really stand out the most. What are your plans for after graduation? I'm very fortunate to have accepted a position in consulting and will be starting next fall! I feel really lucky to be working in New York next year, so please reach out whenever for a coffee or a chat! What advice would you give to a Columbia student starting their GS journey? Take time for yourself! Go to that Broadway show, attend that dinner with friends, go out of state, and even sleep in sometimes if you feel like it! The work at Columbia will certainly keep you busy, and New York as a city will also keep you on your toes. However, when it’s all said and done you won’t remember the small assignments, quizzes, or anything else that might be getting you down in the moment. Cherish the immense value that comes from putting yourself first, and do all those things that make you happy! Tags Student Profile Dual and Joint Degree Programs News May 27, 2022 Join Us: Columbia Reunion Weekend in New York City May 26, 2022 Lewisohn Hall Summer Closure | Summer 2022 Temporary Relocation to Uris Hall May 26, 2022 Postbac Premed Program Institutional Scholarship Application May 24, 2022 GS Celebrates the Class of 2022 at Class Day Ceremony May 24, 2022 Academic Resource Center Summer Offerings Admissions Undergraduate Admissions Postbac Premed Admissions Newly Admitted Students U.S. Military Veterans International Dual Degree Programs Educational Financing Types of Financial Aid Financial Aid for Military Veterans Cost of Attendance Applying for Financial Aid Counseling Appointments Enrollment Update Form Student Account Refunds Academics Undergraduate Postbac Premed Program Applying to Medical School Academic Policies Faculty of Arts and Sciences Student Services Undergraduate Announcements Postbac Premed Announcements Academic Advising Academic Resource Center Campus Services Forms and Guides Graduation Health and Wellness Housing International Students Medical School Fair Planning Your Future Premedical Clinical and Research Positions Student Life Veterans Resources and Initiatives About Leadership Mission History Statistics and Facts Notable Alumni University Policies Events Staff Directory Faculty News Press Coverage Media Inquiries Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close