Skip to main content Columbia University Home Search form Search Our Services Adult Programs Current Adult Learners & Teachers ESOL High School Equivalency (TASC) CUNY Assessment Test Preparation College Road Job Road CAFE Prep Student Pre-Registration Form Volunteer Registration Form Youth Programs Emergency Services Health Student Executive Board Our Supporters Support Community Impact Giving Tuesday CI Endowment Campaign Community Impact Alumni Organization (CIAO) Sharing Our Stories Benefit About Us Mission History Leadership Our Impact News & Events Contact Our Opportunities Work Study Job Opportunities Van Amson Service Fellowship Volunteering Donate Home Our Supporters Community Impact Alumni Organization (CIAO) Community Impact Alumni Organization (CIAO) Our Supporters Support Community Impact Giving Tuesday CI Endowment Campaign Community Impact Alumni Organization (CIAO) Sharing Our Stories Benefit Support CI Today! Your support allows us to bring high-quality services to the Morningside Heights and Washington Heights communities. Learn More Support CI's Endowment Fund Help support CI's efforts into the future! Learn More Our Mission The Community Impact Alumni Organization (CIAO) is a group of Barnard and Columbia alumni and friends dedicated to supporting Community Impact, the University’s largest service organization. Our Members CIAO is open to Alumni of Community Impact and supportive friends who want to continue their support and involvement with serving the Northern Manhattan community and encouraging student volunteerism and leadership at Barnard and Columbia. We work to help Community Impact serve the local community and develop student volunteers and leaders by working with CI in the following areas: Fundraising. Be a reliable source of funds for all CI expenses. Building a Community of Service Among People Interested in Columbia. Engage CI alumni and encourage them to be a caring part of the NYC community by connecting them with volunteer opportunities. Supporting Future Leaders. Mentor current CI leadership and members. Advocacy and Organizational Support. Advocate for CI in the larger Columbia University community; provide staff with feedback and operational advice. Organizational Structure CIAO is the organizational arm of the Alumni Committee of the Community Impact Board of Directors. We are Chaired by two members of the CI Board of Directors, and CIAO is run by a CIAO Board, composed of CI alumni and friends. The CIAO Board has the following goals: Set strategy and prioritized goals for CIAO Listen to Committees and members Liaison with CI Board, Student Execs, and CI Staff CIAO Standing Committees and Goals Membership Committee Build membership base Maintain web presence, including Facebook Facilitate outreach to past alumni Student Support Committee Work with CI Student Execs to seek input on CIAO goals Provide mentorship and support for Student Execs and CI volunteers Elicit support from Student Execs for alumni tracking and communications Fundraising Committee Raise funds to support Community Impact expenses and CIAO operations Support driving alumni to CI Auction Host annual Fall alumni fundraiser and additional events If you are interested in getting more involved in CIAO, either by joining one of the above committees or applying to join the CIAO Board, please contact Satrina White Boyce, Assistant Director of Development, at [email protected]. 105 Earl Hall, 2980 Broadway, New York, NY 10027 212-854-1492 | [email protected] Our Services Adult Programs Current Adult Learners & Teachers ESOL High School Equivalency (TASC) CUNY Assessment Test Preparation College Road Job Road CAFE Prep Student Pre-Registration Form Volunteer Registration Form Youth Programs Emergency Services Health Student Executive Board Our Supporters Support Community Impact Giving Tuesday CI Endowment Campaign Community Impact Alumni Organization (CIAO) Sharing Our Stories Benefit About Us Mission History Leadership Our Impact News & Events Contact Our Opportunities Work Study Job Opportunities Van Amson Service Fellowship Volunteering Donate Follow us Facebook Twitter Copyright © Copyright Community Impact at Columbia University Site by Site by Bureau for Good