Skip to main content iastate.edu Index A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z Directory Maps Safety Sign Ons Menu Microbiology Undergraduate Program Open Search Bar Search Submit search Main navigation Home People Students Open dropdown menu Admission Coursework Advisors Micro Club Minors Scholarships Awards and Dean's List Transferring to ISU Careers Open dropdown menu Micro Careers Pre-health Professions Graduate Program Video Library Resources Home Welcome to the Microbiology Undergraduate Program Are you interested in the study of small things with a big impact? Or interested in pre-health but not sure what field you want to pursue? Microbiology may be the program for you: a highly employable major applicable to many career paths. Our mission in the Microbiology Undergraduate Program is to instill a comprehensive understanding of microbiology and its relevance to human society and global health, and cultivate the concepts and skills necessary to succeed in microbiology-related careers. Learn more about the Microbiology Undergraduate Program. Students View more video tutorials Picture of the week Recent News Dr. Cunnick Receives Faculty Award for Diversity Enhancement Feb 28, 2022 Cramer Receives P&S Early Advisor Award Feb 28, 2022 ISU researchers receive 2022 Barry Award Feb 24, 2022 Micro Club Meetings Feb 14, 2022 Dr. Boury's contribution in "The Campus" Jan 11, 2022 All news All News Science News American Society of Microbiologists Discover Magazine Science Daily The Scientist New York Times - Microbiology History of Vaccines The Interdepartmental Microbiology Programs are administered by the Departments of Animal Science and Plant Pathology & Microbiology with the involvement of professors from a wide range of departments. Microbiology Program 207 Science Hall 2237 Osborn Dr. Ames, IA 50011 microundergrad@iastate.edu Phone: 515-294-1630 Copyright Information Copyright © Iowa State University of Science and Technology All rights reserved. Legal and Privacy Links Non-discrimination Policy Privacy Policy Digital Access & Accessibility Consumer Information