Skip to main content Ivan Allen College of Liberal Arts Main Menu About Overview Contact/Find Us Visit the College Strategy and Impact Diversity For Employers Advisory Board Schools Overview Economics History and Sociology Literature, Media, and Communication Modern Languages Public Policy Sam Nunn School of International Affairs Reserve Officers’ Training Corps Academics Overview Admissions, Costs, Aid Financial Aid Degree Programs Graduate Programs Doctoral Programs Masters Programs Online Master's Degrees Certificates Undergraduate Programs B.S. Degrees Accelerated Bachelor's/Master's Minors Certificates International Experiences International Plan Global Internship Program Study Abroad Undergraduate Research Students Georgia Tech Liberal Arts Visit the College Alumni Stories Undergraduate Students Why Ivan Allen College of Liberal Arts? Academic Advising Careers Student Life Student Ambassadors Student Advice for Incoming Freshmen Graduate Students Why Ivan Allen College of Liberal Arts? Program Directors and Advisors Careers Calendar of Events Student Resources Student Stories Research Introduction Featured Research Major Research Areas Research Centers Distinguished Faculty Researchers Graduate Research ICLAST Discussions Leading Edge Digital Publications Community Our Community Alumni Success Stories Alumni and Legacy Awards Alumni and Giving Dean's Message Get Involved! Priorities and Needs Contact Information Graduate Student Advisory Board Undergraduate Advisory Board People Overview Office of the Dean College Leadership Faculty and Researchers New Faculty Faculty Mentors Endowed Chairs and Professorships Unit Staff News and Events Latest News and Events The Buzz Around IAC Responding to Covid-19 Feature Stories Newsletters Experts for Media Search Search Search Site Breadcrumb Home Schools in the College of Liberal Arts Take a Liberal Arts Tour Interdisciplinarity is a defining characteristic of studies within our six schools The College’s six schools offer unique interdisciplinary academic programs and conduct cutting edge interdisciplinary research integrating learning opportunities from disciplines both across the College and across Georgia Tech including computing, engineering, design, business, and science. All six schools offer Bachelor of Science (B.S.) degrees, Master of Science (M.S.) degrees, and Doctor of Philosophy (Ph.D.) programs with the exception of Modern Languages, which does not offer a Ph.D. degree. There is also an extensive choice of minors and certificates. Also housed within the College of Liberal Arts are Georgia Tech’s distinguished Reserve Officers' Training Corps. School of Economics Economics in the Ivan Allen College of Liberal Arts blends rigorous analytical and quantitative skills. We place our graduates in a wide range of private, public, and non-profit employment contexts with a common emphasis on decision-making. We provide the analytical framework and data analysis tools essential to good decision making in any organizational context. School of Economics Website School of History and Sociology History and Sociology brings the perspective of the social sciences to bear on critical issues facing the modern world, while providing a source of analysis that emphasizes both change over time and cultural comparisons on an international scale. The School is distinctive in its focus on the social origins and impact of industry, science, and technology and offers the tools students need to understand the complex issues related to the development of contemporary communities. School of History and Sociology Website School of Literature, Media, and Communication Literature, Media, and Communication (LMC) defines new models of intellectual inquiry and practice that bring diverse humanistic perspectives to bear on technological invention and innovation. LMC researches and teaches the ways the humanities shape and are shaped by science and technology. Faculty and students assess and inform technological and scientific change by creating, analyzing, and critiquing a broad range of media forms and cultural practices. School of Literature, Media, and Communication Website School of Modern Languages Modern Languages prepares well-rounded professionals with language skills and informed knowledge of other cultures for service in the global workforce and today’s multicultural societies. Our faculty are highly-qualified professionals specialized in cultivating advanced language skills and negotiating intercultural interactions. We educate students for careers in business, government and non-profits involved in myriad aspects of the global marketplace. School of Modern Languages Website School of Public Policy Ranked #2 in information and communications technologies and 45th overall in public policy/public affairs by U.S. News and World Report, the School of Public Policy is a global leader in foundational knowledge, policies and governance of the scientific and engineering ecosystem ranging from energy and environment, information and communications technologies, cybersecurity, transportation, biotechnology and health, science and engineering ethics, regional and urban economic development, workforce and education policy, innovation and entrepreneurship. School of Public Policy Website The Sam Nunn School of International Affairs The Sam Nunn School of International Affairs explores the forces that shape our world through interdisciplinary degree programs, policy-relevant research with a strong theoretical foundation, hands-on fieldwork, and interaction with practitioners. Set within Georgia Tech the school draws on the example of former U.S. Senator Sam Nunn to integrate and understand technology, policy and international affairs. Sam Nunn School Website Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Tumblr YouTube Flickr Instagram Ivan Allen College of Liberal Arts Savant Building 631 Cherry Street NW, 1st Floor Atlanta, GA 30332 Phone: 404.894.2601 Fax: 404.894.8573 Map and Directions Website Feedback College Resources Contact Us / Find Us Faculty / Staff Resources IT Support Make a Gift Tours & Information Sessions EU General Data Protection Regulation Privacy Notice Ivan Allen College Schools School of Economics School of History and Sociology Sam Nunn School of International Affairs School of Literature, Media, and Communication School of Modern Languages School of Public Policy Georgia Tech Resources Campus Offices Visitor Parking News Center Campus Calendar Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue Atlanta, GA 30332 +1 404.894.2000 Campus Map Directory Employment Emergency Information Legal & Privacy Information Human Trafficking Notice Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Hazing Public Disclosures Accessibility Accountability Accreditation ©2022 Georgia Institute of Technology