Skip Navigation Faculty | Courses | Giving Search Columbia University Ecology, Evolution and Environmental Biology Department Toggle navigation Faculty | Courses | Giving Search Home About Faculty E3B Community Students Undergraduate Post-Baccalaureate M.A. Ph.D. Alumni Post-Docs Resources Graduate Student Association E3B Seminars Prospective Students Prospective – Undergraduate Prospective – Post-Baccalaureate Prospective – M.A. Prospective – Ph.D. Our Mission E3B’s mission is to educate a new generation of scientists and practitioners in the theory and methods of ecology, evolution, and environmental biology. Our educational programs emphasize a multi-disciplinary perspective to understand life on Earth from the level of organisms to global processes that sustain humanity and all life. Our Mission E3B’s mission is to educate a new generation of scientists and practitioners in the theory and methods of ecology, evolution, and environmental biology. Our educational programs emphasize a multi-disciplinary perspective to understand life on Earth from the level of organisms to global processes that sustain humanity and all life. Our Mission E3B’s mission is to educate a new generation of scientists and practitioners in the theory and methods of ecology, evolution, and environmental biology. Our educational programs emphasize a multi-disciplinary perspective to understand life on Earth from the level of organisms to global processes that sustain humanity and all life. Our Mission E3B’s mission is to educate a new generation of scientists and practitioners in the theory and methods of ecology, evolution, and environmental biology. Our educational programs emphasize a multi-disciplinary perspective to understand life on Earth from the level of organisms to global processes that sustain humanity and all life. News & Updates Stay up-to-date with the latest news from the department Check it out: A piece in the State of the Planet from the Columbia Climate School details the work of E3B PhD student Pedro Ribeiro […] Read More Columbia University invites applications for a Lecturer in Discipline position in the Department of Ecology, Evolution and Environmental Biology. E3B represents broad interests in ecology, […] Read More Congratulations to E3B Assistant Professor Andrés Bendesky on his award from NIH! Maximizing Investigators’ Research Award for Early Stage Investigators from the National Institute of […] Read More The Department of Ecology, Evolution and Environmental Biology (E3B) at Columbia University invites applications for a tenure-track position at the Assistant Professor level. Applicants can […] Read More More News From the Field Congratulations to E3B’s very own Professor Matthew Palmer for being selected as one of the recipients of the 2022 Presidential Award for Outstanding Teaching! Dr. Palmer teaches and advises students in several programs, including E3B’s undergraduate, postbaccalaureate, and graduate programs and in the Environmental Science and Policy program in the School of International and Public Affairs (SIPA). He teaches courses in botany, forest ecology, urban ecology, herpetology, and research methods, often with extensive field and laboratory components. His research includes measuring ecosystem functions in forests, wetlands, and cities, the management of natural areas, and the conservation of biological diversity. He finds great joy in teaching and in helping students to see the natural world with a fresh perspective and to better understand the connections between nature and humanity. “His course on botany has fundamentally altered the way I look at the world around me. I find myself walking a little more slowly on my way to campus from my dorm every day, just to take a look at the plants around me. Every day I come away with a greater appreciation of Columbia’s campus and the city around me.”—Diego Plaza Homiston (CC’23) Congratulations Matt on this wonderful, well-deserved achievement! The E3B department is delighted to announce that Dr. Alexandra Huddell has won the 2022 Don Jay Melnick Award! Named in honor of one of the founders of our department, the Melnick Award recognizes outstanding dissertation work and other departmental activities. Alex’s dissertation focused on how agricultural frontiers influence losses of nitrogen. Conventional agricultural practices in Europe, North America, and Asia lead to large nitrogen losses that cause dead zones, smog, and greenhouse warming. Agriculture is expanding along climate frontiers, occupying vast regions of the tropics that previously had little large-scale agriculture, and along management frontiers, with new crops and techniques. Do these frontiers exacerbate nitrogen leaks or mitigate them? Alex first addressed climate frontiers, studying nitrogen losses in tropical agroecosystems. She studied field systems in Mato Grosso, Brazil, where agriculture is expanding rapidly. Her first chapter (AGE 2021) found that excess fertilizer in these agroecosystems leads to among the highest emissions ever recorded of nitric oxide (which forms smog). Alex’s collaborators in Brazil had previously found that huge amounts of nitrate (which causes dead zones) accumulate deep in the soil rather than leaking out into waterways. Alex’s second chapter (Ecosystems 2022) tested an explanation for this high nitrate storage. She found that negatively charged ions (anions, like nitrate) stuck tightly to the soils in Mato Grosso, unlike the common situation in temperate soils (which tend to stick to cations instead of anions). This “anion exchange capacity” combined with the great depth of the soils (over 8 meters (!)) meant that the soils in Mato Grosso could continue to store nitrate at current levels of fertilization for tens-hundreds of years. This nitrate storage in Mato Grosso was intriguing. Was it ubiquitous in tropical agroecosystems? In her third chapter (a meta-analysis; Global Change Biology 2020), Alex found that it was not. She found that tropical agroecosystems leak as much nitrate as temperate ecosystems for a given level of fertilizer. However, she found that tropical agroecosystems emit substantially more nitric oxide than their temperate counterparts, as she had observed in Mato Grosso. Alex’s fourth chapter focused on a management frontier: perennial grains. Perennial grains are hypothesized to mitigate nitrogen losses compared with conventional agriculture, yet this hypothesis has rarely been tested. Alex worked at the SAFE experiment at the Lönnstorp Research Station, which grows perennial wheat alongside annual wheat. She found that her hypothesis was spot on: perennial wheat soaks up way more nitrogen than annual wheat, essentially preventing nitrogen losses (~100 fold lower). Alex’s work is cutting-edge biogeochemistry. Fittingly, given the namesake of this award, her work matters for people and has clear management implications. In addition to her outstanding academic success, Alex was an excellent departmental citizen. She was deeply involved in DEI efforts, culminating in co-founding the Environmental Justice and Urban Ecology Summer Research Program. Congratulations Alex! More From the Field Prospective Students Undergraduate Post- Baccalaureate Master of Arts Doctor of Philosophy Courses Phone (212) 854-9987 Fax (212) 854-8188 E3B@Columbia.edu 10th Floor Schermerhorn EXT 1200 Amsterdam Avenue New York, NY 10027 Site Map Search ©2022 Columbia University A Shelton Interactive Site