Prospective Students Current Students Alumni More Parents Alumni News/Media Faculty/Staff Apply Give Follow Us Twitter Facebook Instagram LinkedIn YouTube Social Stream Search Navigate Search Social SMU About SMU About Mission Statement Core Values SMU Facts Administration Strategic Plan Annual Report AnnualReport Moving Forward Together Contact SMU Maps and directions Academics Academics Student Achievement Centers & Institutes Admission Admission _Local Global Folder Home Settings Academics AcceptedStudents Ambassadors belonghere you-belong-here CampusLife FinancialAid ConditionalAdmission ConnectWithUs EnEspanol springentry Stay4SMU SweetBriar Top10 Visit Waitlist Apply International Chinese Research Research _Local Road-to-R1 Centers-and-Institutes Key-Research-Areas Research-Administration FacultyGrants CampusLife CampusLife _Local Dallas ResidenceLife Dining HealthAndSafety SpiritTraditions Diversity-at-SMU ActivitiesOrganizations FitnessRecreation Sports SpiritualLife Virtual-Tour EnEspanol FAQLivingOnCampus FAQStudentLife Contact SMU SMU Faculty Experts News / Welcome to SMU's Faculty Expert Search / SMU Experts by Subject SMU Experts by Subject Areas of Expertise Anthropology Arts Business Campus Life Chemistry Climate Change Corporate Communications Cyber Security Dispute Resolution Earthquakes Economics Education Energy Engineering and Humanity Ethics Evolution Fashion & Media Geothermal Energy Games – Electronic Health Care Issues History Human Rights Immigration Journalism Martin Luther King Jr. at SMU Legal Matters Liberal Arts and the Humanities Locomotion and Running Lottery and Powerball Mathematics Education Mental Health Oldest Christmas Card Organizational Management Paleontology Physics Politics Psychology Religion and Theology Teaching Video Games Volcanoes Women and Disparity To reach an SMU expert, please call SMU News & Communications at 214-768-7650 or e-mail news@smu.edu Anthropology return to top Caroline Brettell Anthropology Professor and Department Chair Technology's effect on immigration, trends of new immigration gateway cities such as Dallas, Atlanta and Minneapolis, and the challenges of women immigrants. Research includes anthropology of Europe; migration and ethnicity; folk religion; and cross-cultural perspectives on gender. Sunday Eiselt Anthropology Professor Archaeological ceramics and pottery manufacturing, community-based archaeology, the historical archaeology of Native and Hispanic people of the Southwest, and the effects of colonialism on indigenous cultural identities and traditions in the Spanish borderlands. David Meltzer Anthropology Professor The origins, antiquity, and adaptations of the first Americans who colonized the North American continent at the end of the Ice Age, including how these hunter-gatherers met the challenges of significant climate change. Neely Myers Assistant Professor of Anthropology Works at the intersections of culture, gender, global mental health, madness, trauma, neuroanthropology, health disparities, and human rights. Nia Parson Anthropology Professor Interpersonal and collective forms of violence, and mental and physical health and how they relate to gender. Carolyn Smith-Morris Associate Professor of Anthropology As a medical anthropologist, she studies how people in different cultural settings experience health and illness. Arts return to top James Hart Director of Arts Entrepreneurship and Professor of Practice Arts management and arts entrepreneurship. Sam Holland Dean of Meadows School of the Arts and Professor of Music Arts and the community, music, learning to play the piano. Zannie Voss Director, SMU DataArts and Arts Management Professor Arts management, including cultural event attendance, and arts entrepreneurship. Business return to top Michael Cox Director, O’Neil Center for Global Markets & Freedom Impact of competitive market forces on freedom and prosperity in the global economy. Michael Davis Senior Lecturer Business trends and crises Dan Howard Marketing Professor Consumer behavior, advertising, marketing, marketing research and retail marketing. Albert Niemi Professor of Economics and the O’Neil Chair in Global Markets and Freedom Economic growth, economic forecasting and American business history. Bernard Weinstein Business Professor National and local economy, economic development, public policy and taxation, and economic impact. Campus Life return to top Deanie Kepler Former Director of Parent & Family Programs Student-parent relationships, adjusting to campus life, roommates, preparing for final exams, how university life changes students. Chemistry return to top Elfi Kraka Professor and Chair of the Department of Chemistry An expert in computational chemistry, quantum mechanics, and drug discovery. Climate Change return to top Corporate Communications return to top Maria Dixon Hall Associate Corporate Communications Professor and SMU Chief Diversity Officer Maria Dixon Hall’s primary research interests are organizational strategy and planning, as well as, the intersection of power, identity, and culture in corporate, non-profit, and religious organizations. Cyber Security and the Internet return to top Suku Nair Computer Science and Engineering Professor Cyber security and fault-tolerant computing. Mitch Thornton Computer Science and Engineering Professor Hardware Security including IoT and embedded systems, system and network modeling, computer architecture, quantum computing, and formal methods Dispute Resolution return to top Betty Gilmore Director of the Center for Dispute Resolution and Conflict Management A licensed clinical psychologist, she specializes in conflict engagement, human rights, communication and cross-cultural issues John Potter Professor, Center for Dispute Resolution and Conflict Management Active practitioner in dispute resolution and conflict management. He has mediated more than 3,000 disputes with most of those occurring in the health care field Earthquakes return to top Heather DeShon Earth Sciences Professor and Department Chair Leader of the team researching the cause of recent earthquakes in the North Texas area; earthquake generation, volcano seismology and plate tectonics. Brian Stump Earth Sciences Professor Seismic wave propagation, earthquake source theory and explosions as a source of seismic waves, and science and politics in the nuclear age. More Earthquakes Experts Earthquakes triggered by human activity have been happening in Texas since at least 1925, and they have been widespread throughout the state ever since. Economics return to top Cullum Clark Director, Bush Institute - SMU Economic Growth Initiative J.H. Cullum Clark, Ph.D., is founding director of the SMU Economics Center, which has a mission of producing and promoting policy research on major economic issues affecting North Texas and the wider U.S. and global economy. Michael Cox Director, O’Neil Center for Global Markets & Freedom Impact of competitive market forces on freedom and prosperity in the global economy. Michael Davis Senior Lecturer Business trends and crises. Tom Fomby Economics Professor Economic forecasting and data mining. Dan Howard Marketing Professor Consumer behavior, advertising, marketing, marketing research and retail marketing. Daniel Millimet Economics Professor and Department Chair Environmental economics. Albert Niemi Professor of Economics and the O’Neil Chair in Global Markets and Freedom, economic forecasting and American business history. Bernard Weinstein Business Professor National and local economy, economic development, public policy and taxation, and economic impact. Education return to top Jill Allor Education Professor Reading acquisition for students with and without disabilities, including students with learning disabilities or intellectual disabilities. Mark Chancey Religious Studies Professor Recognized authority on the constitutional, political and academic issues raised by Bible courses in public schools. Leanne Ketterlin Geller Education Professor Mathematics education, including procedures and decision-making targeting student needs. Lynn Romejko Jacobs Physiology Professor Physical fitness, exercise physiology, wellness and human performance. Peter Weyand Physiology Professor Human performance limits, such as how fast humans can run. Energy return to top Bruce Bullock Director, Maguire Energy Institute Management, marketing and policy issues related to the energy industry, including oil, gas, wind and geothermal. John Lowe Law Professor Oil and gas production regulations, as well as energy policy, U.S. oil policy in the Middle East and international arbitration. Engineering and Humanity return to top Marc Christensen Dean of Lyle School of Engineering, and Engineering Professor Prosthetics and optics research. Mark Fontenot Engineering Professor Engineering education, innovation and creativity education, computer science education, and database systems and data management. Andrew Quicksall Engineering Professor Drinking water safety in refugee camps. Dario Villarreal Engineering Professor His research focuses on the development of hardware and software for bionic legs that allow amputees and people suffering from mobility impairments to recover their independence. Ethics return to top Rita Kirk Director, Maguire Center for Ethics and Public Responsibility and Altshuler Distinguished Teaching Professor of Corporate Communication and Public Affairs Ethics analysis and social media as a campaign tool. Tom Mayo Law Professor Medical ethics, health care law, bioethics, medical-legal humanities, constitutional law, family law, administrative law and legislation. Evolution return to top Mark Chancey Religious Studies Professor Recognized authority on the constitutional, political and academic issues raised by Bible courses in public schools. Pia Vogel Biology Professor Evolutionary science and scientific inquiry. Fashion & Media return to top Jenny B. Davis Professor of Practice in Fashion Media Jenny Davis focuses on fashion trends, the business of fashion, and streetwear fashion and culture. Geothermal Energy return to top Maria Richards Geothermal Lab Coordinator Geothermal energy -- the use of the earth's natural heat to general electrical power. Games - Electronic Gary Brubaker Director of The Guildhall at SMU Has extensive experience in the games industry, having served as a development director, a manager of core technology, and lead programmer. Health Care Issues return to top Eric Bing Professor of Global Health Worldwide health issues and initiatives, obstacles to adequate health care, health care in Third World countries. Nathan Cortez Law Professor Health law, administrative law, and FDA law, as well as emerging markets in health care and biotechnology. Tom Mayo Law Professor Medical ethics, health care law, bioethics, medical-legal humanities, constitutional law, family law, administrative law and legislation. Carolyn Smith-Morris Associate Professor of Anthropology As a medical anthropologist, she studies how people in different cultural settings experience health and illness. History return to top Edward F. Countryman History Professor Professor Countryman's career has been spent exploring the social consequences of cultural clashes in America. Melissa Barden Dowling Associate History Professor and Director of Classical Studies Professor Dowling is a specialist in ancient Rome and ancient Greece, and related topics. Jeffrey Engel Associate Professor Director of the Center for Presidential History Presidential Studies American Diplomatic History Jeffrey A. Engel, Ph.D., is an award-winning American history scholar and director of the Center for Presidential History at SMU. He is an expert on the U.S. presidency and American diplomatic history. Andrew Graybill History Professor Director, Clements Center for Southwest Studies Professor Graybill's primary research interest is the North American West, with particular interest in expansion, borders, race, violence, and the environment. Alexis McCrossen History Professor Alexis McCrossen's work is part of an emerging area in historical research, temporal studies, a new way of looking at the past through the study of measurement, importance and recognition of time. Human Rights return to top Rick Halperin Director, Human Rights Program Human rights, genocide, and historical and current abuse of human rights in various countries. He is past chair of the Board of Directors of Amnesty International USA. Immigration return to top Caroline Brettell Anthropology Professor and Department Chair Technology's effect on immigration, trends of new immigration gateway cities such as Dallas, Atlanta and Minneapolis, and the challenges of women immigrants. James Hollifield Director, John Goodwin Tower Center for Political Studies Global migration, immigration assimilation in Dallas-Fort Worth. Pia Orrenius Fellow, John Goodwin Tower Center for Political Studies The causes and consequences of Mexico–U.S. migration, illegal immigration, and U.S. immigration policy. Other Immigration Experts Immigration continues to be an issue after decades of wrangling by both major political parties. Journalism return to top Jake Batsell Associate Professor and William J. O'Neil Chair in Business Journalism Jenny B. Davis Professor of Practice in Fashion Media Jenny Davis focuses on fashion trends, the business of fashion, and streetwear fashion and culture. Tony Pederson Tony Pederson's teaching focuses on media ethics, and he has written extensively on the subject and serves as a local resource for media in the Dallas-Fort Worth area. Jared Schroeder Associate Professor Jared Schroeder specializes in First Amendment law, particularly as it relates to freedom of expression in virtual spaces, how information flows and how individuals come to understandings in democratic society. Jayne Suhler Jayne Suhler teaches a range of Journalism courses including advanced reporting, literary journalism and feature writing, and has helped develop curriculum for the division’s fashion media program. Karen Thomas Karen Thomas has spent more than 25 years in the trenches of daily journalism, working as a feature writer specializing in family issues, narrative writing and column and essay writing. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. at SMU return to top Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. spoke to a standing-room-only audience in SMU's McFarlin Auditorium on March 17, 1966. Read more. Legal Matters return to top Lackland Bloom Law Professor Freedom of speech, the rhetoric of Supreme Court opinions, copyright, and constitutional law. Dale Carpenter The Judge William Hawley Atwell Chair of Constitutional Law Professor Carpenter teaches and writes about Constitutional Law, as well as LGBT Rights and the Law. The winner of numerous awards, he also has taught Civil Rights and Civil Liberties Law. Anthony Colangelo Gerald J. Ford Research Fellow and Professor of Law Professor Anthony Colangelo’s scholarly and teaching interests are in the fields of Conflict of Laws, Civil Procedure, U.S. Foreign Relations Law, and Private and Public International Law and Theory. Jennifer Collins Dean of SMU Dedman School of Law Issues involving families and the criminal justice system, including the prosecution of parents who are responsible for their children's deaths. Nathan Cortez Adelfa Botello Callejo Endowed Professor of Law in Leadership and Latino Studies, and Associate Dean for Research Health law, administrative law, food and drug law, and the legislative process, as well as emerging international markets in health care and biotechnology and cross-border health care. William Dorsaneo Professor Emeritus of Law A litigation specialist, he is the author of the twenty-six volume Texas Litigation Guide and the five-volume Texas Civil Trial Guide, as well as Cases and Materials on Civil Procedure, Texas Pre-Trial Litigation, and Texas Trial & Appellate Litigation. Julie Forrester Rogers Law Professor Property, real estate transactions, and land use, as well as real estate finance, predatory lending, and bankruptcy law. Jeffrey M. Gaba M.D. Anderson Foundation Endowed Professor in Health Law Specializes in environmental law. Jeffrey Kahn Law Professor American constitutional law, Russian law, human rights, and counterterrorism, right to travel and national security. Tom Mayo Law Professor Medical ethics, health care law, bioethics, medical-legal humanities, constitutional law, family law, administrative law and legislation. Natalie Nanasi Law Professor Teaches and supervises students who represent gender-based violence victims and those involved in immigration issues. Meghan Ryan Law Professor Criminal law and procedure, torts, and law and science, including the impact of evolving science and technology on criminal convictions and punishment. Marc Steinberg Law Professor Securities law, corporate law and business ethics. Jessica Dixon Weaver Law Professor Academic interests range from the psychoanalysis of race and gender to French literature. Liberal Arts & the Humanities return to top Thomas DiPiero Dean of Dedman College and professor in the Departments of English and World Languages and Literatures Academic interests include the psychoanalysis of race and gender, French literatures, value of liberal arts education, and STEM (science, technology, engineering and mathematics). Locomotion and Running return to top Peter Weyand Professor of Applied Physiology and Biomechanics One of the world’s foremost experts on human performance, Peter G. Weyand, Ph. D., is a frequent source for journalists worldwide on the topic of performance limits such as how fast humans can run. Lottery and Powerball - Chances of Winning return to top Scott Norris Associate Professor of Mathematics An expert on the subject who has been interviewed by news media on the likelihood of winning the lottery or the Powerball. Mathematics Education - Importance of return to top Thomas DiPiero Dean of Dedman College and professor in the Departments of English and World Languages and Literatures Academic interests include the psychoanalysis of race and gender, French literatures, value of liberal arts education, and STEM (science, technology, engineering and mathematics). Leanne Ketterlin Geller Education Professor Director of Research in Mathematics Education and Director of K-12 STEM Initiatives Mathematics education, including procedures and decision-making targeting student needs. Scott Norris Associate Professor of Mathematics Says of mathematics, "Of all the classes a student might take during a college career, I believe mathematics offers some of the greatest potential for overall intellectual development." Mental Health return to top Neely Myers Associate Professor of Anthropology Works at the intersections of culture, gender, global mental health, madness, trauma, neuroanthropology, health disparities, and human rights. Oldest Christmas Card return to top What is believed to be one of the first mass-produced Christmas cards -- dating back some 175 years -- can be found among the extensive special collections of Bridwell Library at SMU's Perkins School of Theology. Read more. Organizational Management return to top Paleontology return to top Louis Jacobs Emeritus Professor and President, ISEM (Institute for the Study of Earth and Man) Dinosaurs and other prehistoric creatures. Physics return to top Jodi Cooley Associate Physics Professor The nature of dark matter, neutrino physics. Fred Olness Physics Professor Elementary particle physics, origin of the universe, quantum mechanics, "Physics Circus" and CERN-related experiments. Steve Sekula Physics Professor and Department Chair Experimental high energy physics and high-performance computing. Krista Lynne Smith Assistant Professor of Physics Observational astrophysicist specializing in star formation in distant galaxies and the environments of super black holes. Ryszard Stroynowski Physics Professor Experimental high energy particle physics and the structure of matter. Since 1996 he has worked on the ATLAS project at Large Hadron Collider and participated recently in the discovery of the Higgs particle. Politics and Political Discourse return to top Cal Jillson Political Science Professor Texas and national politics, political behavior, elections and political strategy. Books he has written include The American Dream, Lone Star Tarnished and Texas Politics: Governing the Lone Star State. Rita Kirk Director, Maguire Center for Ethics and Public Responsibility and Altshuler Distinguished Teaching Professor of Corporate Communication and Public Affairs Ethics analysis and social media as a campaign tool. Joe Kobylka Political Science Professor and Department Chair Supreme Court, Constitutional law, judicial politics and American political thought. Stephanie Martin Associate Professor of Communication Studies Economic messages in political campaigns and presidential campaign strategy, as well as corporate, media and political campaign communications. Lynn Stokes Statistical Science Professor Surveys, polls and sampling, as well as in non-sampling survey errors, such as errors by interviewers and respondents. Ben Voth Director of debate and associate professor, Dedman College Debate, political argument, international human rights and genocide Matthew Wilson Political Science Professor The politics and voting behavior of religious voters, as well as public opinion, elections, religion and politics, and political psychology. Other Political Experts More SMU faculty experts are available to discuss the latest political developments from a variety of angles. Psychology return to top George Holden Psychology Professor Parent-child relationships; the nature and consequences of parents spanking and yelling at children; causes and consequences of family violence; child-rearing and parenting; and child maltreatment. Ernest Jouriles Psychology Professor Children's responses to marital conflict and why certain types of marital conflict are more detrimental to children than others. Renee McDonald Psychology Professor and Senior Associate Dean for Research and Academic Affairs (Dedman College) Child adjustment problems, such as aggression and antisocial behavior, associated with exposure to family conflict and violence. Religion and Theology return to top Mark Chancey Religious Studies Professor The Gospels, the historical Jesus, early Judaism, archaeology and the Bible. Craig C. Hill Dean of Perkins School of Theology New Testament scholar Teaching return to top Ann Batenburg Clinical Associate Professor of Teaching & Learning Professor Batenburg is an experienced teacher who specializes in the education of talented and gifted students. Alexandra Pavlakis Assistant Professor of Education Policy and Leadership Her research focuses on the ways in which various policies and the actions of schools and communities mold the schooling experiences of homeless, highly mobile, and low-income families. Video Games return to top Steve Stringer Deputy Director, Game Lab – SMU Guildhall Can discuss Esports and their appeal to consumers, video game development and video games for simulation and training. Corey Clark Deputy Director of Research at SMU Guildhall Can discuss game-based learning, human computational gaming, online gaming for data visualization, and data mining and machine learning. Volcanoes return to top James Quick Earth Sciences Professor, Dean of the Moody School of Graduate and Advanced Studies, and Associate Vice President for Research Volcanoes, early warning of eruptions, dangers of active volcanoes, volcanic ash. Women and Disparity return to top Anne Lincoln Associate Professor of Sociology Disparity between women and men in education, in the labor market, in the culture industry and in science careers. Click here for an alphabetical list of experts. SMU Experts by Subject in the News Find an Expert News SMU Adventures SMU Faculty Experts SMU In The News Events Calendar Overheard @ SMU Apply Visit Schools Cox School of Business Dedman College of Humanities and Sciences Dedman School of Law Lyle School of Engineering Meadows School of the Arts Moody School of Graduate and Advanced Studies Perkins School of Theology Simmons School of Education and Human Development Explore SMU Magazine Academic Calendar Events Calendar Guildhall Continuing & Professional Education Athletics Employment at SMU Campus Report Sexual Harassment Emergency Preparedness Student Life George W. Bush Presidential Center SMU Libraries Meadows Museum Tate Lecture Series Contact SMU Maps and Directions Legal Disclosures © Southern Methodist University, PO Box 750100, Dallas, TX 75275 SMU Twitter SMU Facebook SMU Instagram SMU Linked In SMU YouTube Social Media Directory"