Skip to Main Content Brown University News from Brown Site Navigation Featured Events For Journalists Search Menu Topics Student Life Date August 7, 2020 2020-08-07 Media Contact Jessica Tabak [email protected] 401-863-1632 All News Share Facebook Twitter Linkedin Email Summer Experiences Every May, Brown students leave their coursework behind to pursue a wealth of transformative summer opportunities — a tradition that has continued remotely during the current COVID-19 moment. See more Emily Ma and Liyuan Ao: Helping rural teens find their voices With support from a Royce fellowship, two undergraduate students are teaching middle-schoolers in rural China how to express themselves and transform their communities through photography. 1 of 6 "My Interesting Classmates" was taken by a student in Ao and Ma's Photovoice program. The student's caption reads: "I took a photo of my friends, whose smiles on their face make me experience a small sense of joy and a sense of warmth. They gave me happiness, and helped me understand that there is goodness in this world. It is they who helped me become a positive and strong girl." (Translation by Ao and Ma.) 2 of 6 "A Piece of Sky Underneath the Trees" was taken by a student in Ao and Ma's Photovoice program. The student's caption reads: "Everyday when students walk by here, they always seem very happy. Although the weather is very hot and the temperature at times unbearable, whenever I walk across this place, I feel relaxed and calm." (Translation by Ao and Ma.) 3 of 6 A photo taken by a student in Ao and Ma's Photovoice program when asked to take pictures that capture their experiences of daily life. 4 of 6 "Washing Clothes" was taken by a student in Ao and Ma's Photovoice program. The student's caption reads: "I took this photo after I washed my clothes. Because I'm quite lazy, I wash my clothes very slowly, but after seeing the fruits of my hard work, I feel quite happy." (Translation by Ao and Ma.) 5 of 6 "Grandpa Hard at Work" was taken by a student in Ao and Ma's Photovoice program. The student's caption reads: "I took this photo in the evening when the sky is darkened by the rainclouds. Grandpa is covering up the beans because if they are not sheltered from the rain, the beans will be softened and go bad, and farmers will loose a lot of yield." (Translation by Ao and Ma.) 6 of 6 A photo taken by a student in Ao and Ma's Photovoice program. Ao said that, during her month working with students in the program, “I started to get a really, really clear picture of how their lives are. I really got to know them.” PROVIDENCE, R.I. [Brown University] — With its barrage of developmental and social changes, adolescence can be a difficult time for young people to effectively express their emotions to those around them. But for adolescents among China’s more than 40 million rural “left-behind” children — whose parents migrate to far-away cities to pursue work opportunities unavailable at home — self-expression is an even more difficult skill to cultivate, said Emily Ma. “Because these students often lack an adult caregiver to help them process their emotions and build their self-esteem, they tend to be more reserved and anxious,” said Ma, a rising Brown University senior concentrating in psychology. The students’ low-income, rural schools are typically unequipped to address these social and emotional issues in a culture that highly prioritizes academic achievement, she added. Ma and fellow Brown senior Liyuan Ao are seeking to change this. This summer, the pair have partnered with a boarding middle school in Gansu, China — a rural western province where the need for migratory work causes many children to see one or both parents as little as once a year — to create a remote pilot program using Photovoice, an interactive community research method that teaches students how to use photography to express their emotions and create socially responsive school communities. At the start of the summer, Ma and Ao equipped six student volunteers with cameras and taught them how to use photography to capture thought. Then, students began taking their own pictures and discussing them with Ma and Ao, both in writing and during weekly video conferences. In the program’s early weeks, students shot photos that showed how they experienced the feelings or ideas that Ma and Ao had suggested — such as “Xing Fu”（幸福), a Chinese word that roughly translates, in English, to contentment. As the weeks progressed, however, students began to choose the themes that they wished to explore through images. https://www.youtube.com/embed/eRNtxUukHpQ Video Ao and Ma discuss the Photovoice program that they piloted this summer at a middle school in Gansu, China. As the students’ ownership of their photography increased, they began revealing a fuller picture of their home and school experiences, Ao said: “As they take photos of moments in their lives and figures in their environments, some students use photos to express that it is hard not seeing their parents, or how breaks can be fun and valuable to them because the school day is so long.” “I started to get a really, really clear picture of how their lives are. I really got to know them.” Ao and Ma believe that Photovoice’s ability to encourage students to share deep insights makes it a particularly valuable research tool. “This intimacy is hard to achieve using traditional questionnaires or focus group interviews, where students might feel like it’s awkward to share,” Ao said. “But photography is such a non-intrusive tool. I was surprised by how much they shared.” As summer draws to a close, Ma and Ao are helping the students to curate a digital exhibition of their work to showcase their learning and reflections to their school as they return in the fall. “The photos become a means of talking about the challenges in their lives with decision-makers in their community in their community — teachers whom they spend more time with than their family members year-round,” Ma said. “They get to say, ‘Here are some of the challenges we’ve noticed and the actions we could take. Let’s keep each other accountable and make change happen.'” Ma and Ao also intend to use the photographs, discussions and written reflections that students created this summer to start a dialog with the school’s principal and teachers about how the school can provide support strategies to help students work through the challenges they are experiencing. In this way, Ma said, “the solutions will actually be in the hands of the community themselves.” “ The photos become a means of talking about the challenges in their lives with decision-makers in their community ... They get to say, ‘Here are some of the challenges we’ve noticed and the actions we could take. Let’s keep each other accountable and make change happen.’ ” Emily Ma Royce Fellow, Class of 2021 Tweet this quote Ao and Ma are conducting this research project as members of the Royce fellowship program, a Swearer Center initiative at Brown that helps roughly two dozen student researchers each year undertake projects in close collaboration with communities across the country and world. Each year’s cohort meets regularly throughout the year to discuss their project progress with each other and with community-engaged scholars across the University. Both Ao and Ma have found these regular conversations with students and faculty valuable, especially as they have determined ways to address the challenges of researching remotely during the COVID-19 pandemic. “It gives me a lot of moral support knowing that there is a community of students and scholars who are very passionate about social justice, who are all fighting through this tough time and going ahead with their projects,” Ma said. Ao added: “It’s encouraging that we’re going through this process together.” Photo reflection by a student in the Photovoice program run by Ao and Ma The project has also enabled Ao and Ma to broaden their understanding of their respective fields. For Ma, who was just accepted into Brown’s fifth year public health master’s program, the project has provided insight into the intersections of psychology and health policy. “Knowing that these students’ ideas will be shared with decision makers in their community has helped me think about how to apply psychology research to policy making,” she said. Ao — a comparative literature concentrator who intends to enter the education field — has learned through the project how telling stories with photographs can empower students. “As a storyteller myself, I always want to explore how different forms of narration can be used to help students achieve something,” she said. “Introducing students to photo narrative is a way to improve their social and emotional well-being, which is something I have never thought about before.” For Ma, witnessing this social and emotional transformation among the students in their pilot program has been the project’s most immediate accomplishment: “I think just having them have room to be free, happy selves and be honest with each other is a real gift.” Related News: Summer Experiences Health and Medicine Parisa Afsharian: Translating research into actionable health advice August 18, 2021 As a Hassenfeld Summer Scholar, Afsharian is researching the connection between language and health outcomes – and using her multilingualism to improve the health of families. Read Article Open details for Parisa Afsharian: Translating research into actionable health advice Social Sciences Josh Bricker: Investigating whether low public defender spending explains high incarceration rates August 12, 2021 As a summer research assistant, the rising senior is analyzing decades of data to investigate whether increasing spending on state public defender programs could lower America’s uniquely high incarceration rate. Read Article Open details for Josh Bricker: Investigating whether low public defender spending explains high incarceration rates Student Life Sarah Zylberfuden: Making connections in canine cognition July 28, 2021 With dogs important contributors in everything from rescue operations to assisting people with disabilities, the rising senior is spending her summer in a Brown laboratory researching the reasoning abilities of man’s best friend. Read Article Open details for Sarah Zylberfuden: Making connections in canine cognition Student Life Whitney Terrill: Aligning personal insurance with collective good July 21, 2021 As a member of B-Lab — the Nelson Center for Entrepreneurship’s summer startup accelerator — Terrill is developing the Reem Company, an insurance carrier that benefits the greater good, as outlined by her Islamic faith. Read Article Open details for Whitney Terrill: Aligning personal insurance with collective good Arts and Humanities Halle Bryant: Indexing Rhode Island’s Indigenous history July 14, 2021 The Class of 2021 graduate is working with Rhode Island’s Tomaquag Museum to index 1930s issues of a Native American magazine that sheds light on the lives of Indigenous people in New England and beyond. Read Article Open details for Halle Bryant: Indexing Rhode Island’s Indigenous history Student Life Pre-college programs at Brown offer high school students the chance to learn on campus or online July 8, 2021 The first in-person [email protected] sessions since COVID-19’s arrival are welcoming nearly 800 high school students to campus this summer, while many others participate virtually from across the globe. Read Article Open details for Pre-college programs at Brown offer high school students the chance to learn on campus or online Arts and Humanities Jeremy Chan: Gamifying the scramble for Africa July 7, 2021 As a teaching assistant in the history course African Experiences of Empire, Chan is designing board games that deepen students’ knowledge of everyday life in sub-Saharan Africa as European powers were seizing control. Read Article Open details for Jeremy Chan: Gamifying the scramble for Africa Student Life Justin Li: Keeping Pride alive in Providence during a challenging year June 30, 2021 Brown-RISD dual degree student Justin Li led efforts to revive Pride Month activities in Rhode Island this year after challenges related to COVID-19 threatened to cancel the longstanding tradition. Read Article Open details for Justin Li: Keeping Pride alive in Providence during a challenging year Student Life BrownConnect Summer Institute: Adapting a beloved novel into a Broadway play August 20, 2020 As part of the BrownConnect Summer Institute, Brown students and recent graduates considered the creative and practical challenges of transforming the bestselling novel “Wonder” into a Broadway musical. Read Article Open details for BrownConnect Summer Institute: Adapting a beloved novel into a Broadway play Health and Medicine Cesar Orduña: Delivering free virus tests to Rhode Island’s underserved August 12, 2020 Since May, a Brown senior and other students have played an instrumental role in providing COVID-19 tests to low-income, uninsured Rhode Island residents, many of whom are working on the front lines amid a global pandemic. Read Article Open details for Cesar Orduña: Delivering free virus tests to Rhode Island’s underserved Student Life Emily Ma and Liyuan Ao: Helping rural teens find their voices August 7, 2020 With support from a Royce fellowship, two undergraduate students are teaching middle-schoolers in rural China how to express themselves and transform their communities through photography. Read Article Open details for Emily Ma and Liyuan Ao: Helping rural teens find their voices Arts and Humanities Ali Dipp: Building a platform for ‘borderlanders’ in the Southwest August 6, 2020 Through digital marketplaces, murals and storytelling, the Brown-RISD dual degree student and El Paso, Texas, native seeks to celebrate the unique character of the Southwest. Read Article Open details for Ali Dipp: Building a platform for ‘borderlanders’ in the Southwest Tags Summer Experiences Swearer Center Undergraduate Research Summer Experiences Every May, Brown students leave their coursework behind to pursue a wealth of transformative summer opportunities — a tradition that has continued remotely during the current COVID-19 moment. See more Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown Social Navigation Facebook Instagram LinkedIn Snapchat Twitter YouTube Social Media Directory © Brown University Brown University For You Current Students Faculty Staff Parents & Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Featured Events For Journalists Topics Arts and Humanities Environment Health and Medicine News and Events Science and Technology Social Sciences Student Life University Initiatives Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation About Events For You Give to Brown All of Brown.edu People News Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Emily Ma and Liyuan Ao: Helping rural teens find their voices Open details for Emily Ma and Liyuan Ao: Helping rural teens find their voices Bookmark this Page