Prospective Students Current Students Alumni More Parents Alumni News/Media Faculty/Staff Apply Give Follow Us Twitter Facebook Instagram LinkedIn YouTube Social Stream Search Navigate Search Social SMU About Administration Administration Board of Trustees President 21st Century Council Provost Dean, SMU Libraries Dean, Cox School of Business Dean, Dedman College Dean, Dedman School of Law Dean, Lyle School of Engineering Dean, Meadows School of the Arts Dean, Perkins School of Theology Dean, Research & Graduate Studies Dean, Annette Caldwell Simmons School of Education & Human Development Director of Athletics Chief Investment Officer Vice President for Business and Finance and Treasurer Vice President, Development & External Affairs Vice President, Executive Affairs Vice President, Legal Affairs Vice President for Student Affairs SMU Facts SMU Facts Campus profile Academic offerings Administration Prominent alumni Intercollegiate athletics Location and facilities Student life Undergraduate costs Maps and directions Maps and directions Campus Map Directions to SMU Parking at SMU Download and print maps Building addresses Accessibility SMU-in-Taos Strategic Plan Contact SMU Administration Home / About SMU / Administration Administration SMU seeks to create and impart knowledge that will shape citizens who contribute to their communities and lead their professions in a global society. Southern Methodist University's mission is to be a leading private institution of higher learning that expands knowledge through research and teaching. Among its faculty, students, and staff, the University develops skills and cultivates principled thought and wisdom. The University is dedicated to the values of academic freedom and open inquiry and to its United Methodist heritage. President’s Executive Council R. Gerald Turner, President Elizabeth Loboa, Provost and Vice President, Academic Affairs Brad E. Cheves, Vice President, Development and External Affairs Kenechukwu (K.C.) Mmeje, Vice President, Student Affairs Christine C. Regis, Vice President for Business and Finance Harold Stanley, Vice President, Executive Affairs Paul Ward, Vice President, Legal Affairs and Governmental Relations, General Counsel and Secretary Rakesh Dahiya, Chief Investment Officer, Investments Rick Hart, Director, Athletics Deans Marc P. Christensen, Dean, Lyle School of Engineering Jennifer Collins, Dean, Dedman School of Law Thomas DiPiero, Dean, Dedman College of Humanities and Sciences Craig C. Hill, Dean, Perkins School of Theology Sam Holland, Dean, Meadows School of the Arts Holly Jeffcoat, Dean, SMU Libraries Stephanie L. Knight, Dean, Simmons School of Education and Human Development Matthew B. Myers, Dean, Cox School of Business James E. Quick, Dean, Associate Provost for Research and Dean of Graduate Studies Administration Board of Trustees President Provost Director of Athletics Chief Investment Officer Vice President, Business and Finance Vice President, Development & External Affairs Vice President, Executive Affairs Vice President, Legal Affairs Vice President for Student Affairs DEANS Dean, Cox School of Business Dean, Dedman College Dean, Dedman School of Law Dean, Lyle School of Engineering Dean, Meadows School of the Arts Dean, Perkins School of Theology Dean, Research & Graduate Studies Dean, Simmons School of Education & Human Development Dean, SMU Libraries Apply Visit Schools Cox School of Business Dedman College of Humanities and Sciences Dedman School of Law Lyle School of Engineering Meadows School of the Arts Moody School of Graduate and Advanced Studies Perkins School of Theology Simmons School of Education and Human Development Explore SMU Magazine Academic Calendar Events Calendar Guildhall Continuing & Professional Education Athletics Employment at SMU Campus Report Sexual Harassment Emergency Preparedness Student Life George W. Bush Presidential Center SMU Libraries Meadows Museum Tate Lecture Series Contact SMU Maps and Directions Legal Disclosures © Southern Methodist University, PO Box 750100, Dallas, TX 75275 SMU Twitter SMU Facebook SMU Instagram SMU Linked In SMU YouTube Social Media Directory"