Skip navigation Information For: Future Students Current Students PLME Students Faculty & Staff Residents & Fellows Alumni Parents The Warren Alpert Medical School of Brown University Search Brown Search AMS About Education Student Affairs Diversity Admission Financial Aid Med A to Z People Directory Department of Dermatology Education Department of Dermatology Education Residency Information The faculty of The Warren Alpert Medical School’s Department of Dermatology is committed to offering a high quality training program in dermatology. Both the full-time and part-time faculty are dedicated to conveying not only factual knowledge, but also a commitment to lifelong learning. Imparting the qualities of respect, good judgment, patient advocacy, professionalism, and the courage and confidence to face the future challenges of dermatology are major goals of the program. We hope this will foster a sense of commitment to dermatology and will encourage our graduates to contribute some of their future time, knowledge and experience back to the field. The members of the faculty feel that the education process and the commitment to lifelong learning start on the first day. Residents share an important responsibility to participate actively in the educational process. The faculty are enthusiastic and dedicated to making the resident experience a good one. All residents are expected to demonstrate a dedication to sound patient care and to fulfill the duties related to the care of the patients. The cornerstone of dermatologic practice, however, is a solid fund of knowledge. At each faculty meeting, issues that relate to the teaching program are discussed. The objective is to continuously reassess the curriculum. The entire curriculum is repeated each year, with a goal of providing a solid education - the basis for a reasoned approach to clinical problems. Basic science and dermatopathology information is integrated at every opportunity into the clinical presentation and management approach. For all residents at every level, emphasis is placed on the development of competence in the diagnosis, work-up, laboratory interpretation, assessment, and management of the patients seen. The natural history and prognosis of the disease process is emphasized, for this is a major issue that concerns the patient and their attitudes toward treatment. Second and third year residents become proficient in lecturing to medical students, as well as to residents in other disciplines. Residents will be expected to demonstrate proficiency in the interpretation of dermatopathology slides commensurate with level of training. In addition to teaching knowledge and skills specific to the field of dermatology, the Brown Dermatology Residency Program has a comprehensive curriculum designed to teach and assess the physician core competencies as defined by the Accreditation Council of Graduate Medical Education (ACGME). These six core competencies are: Patient Care that is compassionate, appropriate, and effective Medical Knowledge about biomedical, clinical and social-behavioral sciences Practice-Based Learning and Improvement that involves evaluation of your own practice and assimilation of scientific evidence Interpersonal and Communication Skills that result in effective information exchange with patients, families, and other health professionals Professionalism, as manifested through adherence to ethical principles and sensitivity to a diverse patient population Systems-Based Practice, as manifested by an awareness of the larger context of health care delivery and the ability to effectively call on system resources to provide optimal care. The core competencies are taught and evaluated in all clinical rotations using a variety of assessment techniques. The faculty wishes all program graduates to be not only excellent dermatologists, but also fine physicians. Wellness within the department, and for residents, is a top priority at Brown Dermatology. Our acadmic culture is well-known for being a positive, collegial, and supportive environment. In addition, we have an annual wellness-focused resident retreat and keep residents updated on health and wellness opportunities available through Lifespan GME, Coastline Employee Assistance Program, and the Rhode Island Medical Society. Program Director Dr. John Kawaoka keeps an open-door policy for any resident concerns or challenges, and we select an annual resident Wellness Liaison. Brown is proud to have a Brown Minority House Staff Association (BMHA), for more information on the BMHA, please click here. Home Commitment to Diversity For Patients and Visitors For Students and Residents For Physicians and Practitioners Research at Brown Dermatology Contact News Print this Page Share this Page Department of Dermatology Brown University 593 Eddy Street APC 10 Providence, RI 02903 Phone Educational: 401-444-7139 Fax Educational: 401-444-7105 The Warren Alpert Medical School of Brown University Box G-A1, Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-3330 Maps & Directions / Contact Us / Accessibility © 2022 Brown University Connect: Facebook / LinkedIn / YouTube / Flickr / Twitter Resources Academic Departments Affiliated Hospitals Faculty Directory Make a Gift Affiliates Alpert Medical School Brown Dermatology Rhode Island Hospital