Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Health Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Our Services Appointments Health Topics Events Forms and Guidelines Our Organization News See All Services What's Open Now Patient Resources Quarantine and Isolation Support Coping Tools Immunization Compliance Top Services Birth Control Education Individual Counseling Primary Care Register with Disability Services Sexual Assault: Get Support STI Testing Support Groups Travel Medicine Urgent Medical Concerns Workshops and Trainings Cost of Service Overview Make an Appointment Same Day Service Emergency and After-hours Support Alcohol Body Image Concerns Marijuana Disabilities Other Drugs HIV Insurance Men's Health Mental Health and Well-Being Anxiety Depression Stress Nutrition Physical Activity Relationships Overview Academic Relationships Friendships Roommates Sexual and Reproductive Health Sleep Transgender and Gender Expansive Health Violence Prevention Prevention Consent What Is Sexual Assault? Supporting a Survivor What Is Relationship Abuse? Stalking What Is Sexual Harassment? Bystander Intervention-Step UP! Women's Health See All Events Sexual Assault Awareness Month Columbia Health Flu Season Information Virtual Naloxone Training About Columbia Health Who We Are Who We Serve Confidentiality, Patient Rights, & Patient Responsibilities Operating Philosophy Video Library Your Feedback Staff Directory Health Units Alice! Health Promotion Counseling and Psychological Services Disability Services Gay Health Advocacy Project (GHAP) Insurance Office Medical Services Sexual Violence Response Columbia Health You are here: Home All Services Service and Assistance Animals Service and Assistance Animals Columbia recognizes that service and assistance animals provide individuals with disabilities enhanced autonomy and independence, and the University has established guidelines regarding having such animals on campus. Students must first submit a Service and Assistance Animal Registration Form and disability documentation in order for staff to determine their eligibility for this accommodation. What Is a Service Animal? A service animal is a dog, or in some circumstances a miniature horse, trained to do work or perform tasks for the benefit of an individual with a disability. Columbia generally allows service animals in its buildings, classrooms, residence halls, meeting spaces, dining areas, recreation facilities, activities, and events when the animal is accompanied by the individual approved for this accommodation through Disability Services. The work or task a service animal has been trained to provide must be directly related to the person’s disability. What Is an Assistance Animal? An assistance animal is a dog, cat, or other domestic animal that provides emotional support and companionship. Because assistance animals do not assist a person with a disability with activities of daily living, Columbia generally allows assistance animals only in an approved student’s apartment or room in University Housing, and not in other areas of the University. Students must have authorization from Disability Services prior to bringing their assistance animal to campus. Service and Assistance Animal Guidelines The guidelines ensure that students with disabilities who require the use of a service or assistance animal are accommodated, and that animals are cared for in a manner that is consistent with community standards. Columbia is committed to allowing people with disabilities the use of a service animal on campus to facilitate their full-participation and equal access to University programs and activities. Read the full guidelines. Make an Appointment Closed Sorry, we are closed Open Now edit location Check out our office locations and hours Staff Directory Check out our list of staff at the office department page. Health Unit Disability Services Clinical Specialty Accessibility Columbia Health Administration Wallach Hall, Suite 125, Mail Code 4202, 1116 Amsterdam Avenue · New York, NY 10027 Phone 212-854-2284 Contact Us [email protected] Internal Use Only Login to Access Follow Us Facebook Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close