Skip to main content Skip to primary site menu Skip to primary site search Google Tag Manager Population Studies and Training Center Research Themes Project Categories Cite and Send Selected Faculty Publications News Training and Education Postdoctoral Research Associates Predoctoral Trainees Undergraduates Migration Studies Certificate PSTC Undergraduate Fellows Program Alumni Events PSTC Colloquia Speaker Series Workshops and Professionalization Spatial Structures in the Social Sciences (S4) Working Group in Anthropology and Population (WGAP) Migration Studies Initiative Special Events People Faculty Postdoctoral Research Associates Predoctoral Trainees Staff Undergraduate Fellows Programs and Initiatives About Leadership Sidney Goldstein, PSTC Founder Affiliation Services and Facilities Employment Opportunities External Funding Research Themes Children, Families, and Health Social Foundations of Health Disparities Migration and Urbanization Population, Development, and Environment Reproductive Health and HIV/AIDS Social Inequalities Funding Progressivity, COVID-19, and Inequality of School Resources by Race and SES How Changing Neighborhood and School Contexts Shape Mental Health and Educational Attainment from Childhood to Early Adulthood Project Categories Rhode Island Domestic International Research to Policy Spatial Cite and Send Selected Faculty Publications News Training and Education Postdoctoral Research Associates NICHD Postdoctoral Fellows Predoctoral Trainees NICHD Predoctoral Fellows Past NICHD Fellows Admission and Requirements Funding Opportunities Workshops Predoctoral Training Program Application 2021-22 Undergraduates Migration Studies Certificate PSTC Undergraduate Fellows Program Alumni Events PSTC Colloquia Speaker Series Workshops and Professionalization Spatial Structures in the Social Sciences (S4) Working Group in Anthropology and Population (WGAP) Migration Studies Initiative Special Events People Faculty Postdoctoral Research Associates Predoctoral Trainees Staff Undergraduate Fellows Programs and Initiatives Spatial Structures in the Social Sciences (S4) Migration Studies Initiative About Leadership Sidney Goldstein, PSTC Founder Remembering Sidney Goldstein Affiliation Services and Facilities Employment Opportunities 2022 Postdoctoral Fellowship Manager of Communications and Outreach Postdoctoral Research Associate in Population Studies Summer 2021 Proctorship Program for predocs External Funding Migration Studies Certificate Migration is at the core of human history. People have always moved in search of opportunities, and to escape hardship and threats to well-being. In the modern era migration at the national and international levels changes the demographic and ethnic compositions of cities and nations, and challenges and transforms national identities and political cultures. The Certificate in Migration Studies, offered by the Population Studies and Training Center (PSTC) in partnership with the Department of Sociology, promotes a multidisciplinary understanding of migration and competency in a range of research methodologies. It accomplishes these goals by linking students to diverse learning resources spread across departments and centers at Brown University, and by building community among students and faculty with shared interest in migration, immigration, and the immigrant experience. The Migration Studies Certificate is part of a larger Migration Studies Initiative at the PSTC. For information about the initiative, and migration related lectures and activities, go to link. Eligibility As with all undergraduate certificates, students may only have one declared concentration and must be enrolled in or have completed at least two courses toward the certificate at the time they declare in ASK, which must be no later than the last day of classes of the antepenultimate (typically the sixth) semester. Requirements The program places particular emphasis on research methods, research experience, and rigorous approaches to the study of migration. The required introductory course covers the central features, concepts and foci of international migrations studies, and the two elective courses selected from the lists of preapproved courses expose students to diverse substantive concerns and disciplinary approaches. A required methods course from a list of preapproved courses exposes students to methods beyond their concentration requirements. Finally, students complete a thesis, project or an experiential learning requirement. Students who undertake a senior project or thesis for their declared concentration are required to have a migration related topic as the central focus of the project or thesis. Proposals for projects/theses need program approval for migration content. As an alternative to a project or thesis, students may participate in a faculty research project with a focus on migration, or complete an internship or volunteer with a community organization that primarily services immigrant communities. 1. Required Migration Course SOC 0315 International Migration 2. Elective Migration Course (Choose one) AMST 1611A Making America: Twentieth-Century U.S. Immigration/Ethnic Literature EDUC 0410A New Faces, New Challenges: Immigrant Students in U.S. Schools ETHN 1750A Immigrant Social Movements: Bridging Theory and Practice SOC 1128 Migrants, Refugees and the Mediterranean SOC 1155 Borderlands SOC 1281 Migration in the Americas 3. Elective Migration Course (Choose one from a list of preapproved courses.) Link to list 4. Elective Methods Course (Choose one from list of preapproved courses. The elective methods course cannot be a required course in a student’s declared concentration). Link to list Information about opportunities for undergraduates to enroll in non-credit mini-methods courses offered at the PSTC can be found at link. 5. Capstone Students must complete a senior project or thesis as part of their concentration with a migration related topic as the central focus, or they may participate in a faculty migration related research project, or complete an internship or volunteer with a community organization that primarily services immigrant communities. Course credit for a senior project or thesis should be arranged through the student’s declared concentration. Proposals for projects/theses need program approval for migration content at the time that proposals are due to the student’s concentration. Participation in a faculty research project, internships or volunteer work can be completed at any time between the end of the fourth semester and graduation, but needs program approval before it can count towards the certificate requirement. Course credit is not awarded for internships or volunteer work. Please direct any further questions to program director, Prof. David Lindstrom ([email protected]). Back to top Explore Brown University Search Brown Show/Hide Learn More About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life Find A to Z Index People Directory Information for Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Top Destinations Global Brown Watson Institute Graduate School Alpert Medical School School of Public Health School of Engineering Population Studies and Training Center Population Studies and Training Center Brown University Box 1836 68 Waterman St. Providence, RI 02912 Phone: 401-863-2668 Email [email protected] Giving to Brown Brown University Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-1000 Maps & Directions / Contact Us © 2022 Brown University Connect: [email protected] Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram iTunes U Google+ LinkedIn SnapChat