UH Home Login to AccessUH Visit Us On Facebook! Visit Us On LinkedIn! Toggle navigation About Our College A Message from the Dean Mission & Goals Administration Faculty Directory Resident Directory Our Building's Namesake College News & Events Need a Speaker? Directions to UHCO Future Students & Residents Scholarships Academic Programs The Optometry Profession Applying to UHCO Student Life Accreditation and Rankings Transferring to UHCO Research Current Research Studies Summer Research Program Research Faculty Seminars At A Glance Visual Optics Institute Texas Eye Research and Technology Center UHCO Myopia Control Initiative UHCO Technical Services Faculty Labs Alumni, CE & Donors Career and Practice Advancement Continuing Education Distinguished Alumnus Awards Featured Alumni Foundation for Education and Research in Vision Giving to UHCO Professional Resources Optometry Resources Guide Patient Care University Eye Institute The Surgery Center Cedar Springs Eye Clinic Applying to UHCO Give to UHCO Faculty & Staff Current Students You Are Here: UHCO Home About Our College College News & Events College News About Our College | College News & Events A Message from the Dean Mission & Goals Administration Faculty Directory Resident Directory Our Building's Namesake College News & Events College News Need a Speaker? Directions to UHCO The Latest From The University of Houston College of Optometry May 18, 2022 Deciphering the Brain and How the Visual System Processes Information University of Houston scientists are delving into the brain by examining gap junctions in the retina and elsewhere – an understanding that could guide the development of new treatments or diagnostics for brain disorders and degenerative diseases. March 7, 2022 A few Qs & As with Easy Anyama A few Qs & As with University of Houston College of Optometry’s Easy Anyama, recently elected by fellow students from around the nation as the incoming president of the American Optometric Student Association… July 1, 2021 2021 William C. Ezell Fellowships Winners! The American Academy of Optometry Foundation announced the 12 recipients of the 2021 William C. Ezell Fellowships. The award provides recognition and support to talented post-doctoral students in pursuit of an advanced degree in optometric research and education. Established in 1949, more than 440 William C. Ezell Fellowships have been awarded to date. Funding is provided by leading optometric companies, private endowments, and other generous business organizations. June 28, 2021 Congratulations to Collin Gray, OD, '20 Congratulations to Collin Gray, OD, '20 on being recognized as the Young OD of the Year by the Utah Optometric Association. The award, presented on June 11, 2021 as part of the association's Annual Congress, is awarded for significant service to the profession, and to the visual welfare of the people of the state of Utah. June 2, 2021 Dr. Ticak receives Armistead Teaching Excellence Award Anita Ticak, O.D., M.S., F.A.A.O., Associate Clinical Professor, is the recipient of the 2021 Cora and J. Davis Armistead Teaching Excellence Award from the University of Houston College of Optometry. May 21, 2021 Congratulations to the following recipients of the 2021 Vison Care Section (VCS) Awards! 2021 VCS Distinguished Service Award is the highest honor the Vision Care Section can bestow and is presented to a person, institution or group who has made an outstanding contribution or demonstrated continual high-quality service in the area of public health eye/vision care, see the 2021 winners. April 14, 2021 Isabel Deakins Receives Johnson & Johnson Vision Award The American Academy of Optometry Foundation (AAOF) has announced that Isabel Deakins, Class of 2021 is the recipient of the Johnson & Johnson Vision Award of Excellence in Contact Lens Patient Care. April 7, 2021 Dr. Earl Smith gets the highest faculty award at the University of Houston Dr. Earl L. Smith III, Greeman-Petty Professor in Vision Development in the University of Houston College of Optometry, as the 2021 Esther Farfel Award recipient. Dr. Smith’s outstanding accomplishments in vision research, professional and graduate teaching, and service to his college, the university, and the profession have earned him this recognition. March 12, 2021 Optometry practice doubles profits developing people A decade after taking over his dad’s practice in Wichita Falls, Texas, Dr. Danny Clarke ’95 has doubled profits, doubled his staff strength and revamped culture. March 9, 2021 UHCO ranked number 2 for research impact in US Clinical and Experimental Optometry, the peer-reviewed optometric journal in Australia has ranked the University of Houston College of Optometry # 2 among all US schools and colleges of optometry for research impact from its top researchers. 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 Next » Applying to UHCO | University Eye Institute | The Surgery Center | Academic Programs NBEO Pass Rates | 2025 OD Class Profile | Current Research Studies | Faculty Directory | Administration | Continuing Education ©2022 University of Houston College of Optometry. All rights reserved. Report a problem with this page Texas.gov Texas Homeland Security TRAIL Fraud Reporting Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Linking Notice Privacy Notice Open Records/Public Information Act Institutional Résumé Required Reports Electronic & Information Resources Accessibility Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness University Policies