Division of Research - University of Houston Skip to main content Restrict my search to Division of Research Submit Close Login to AccessUH Give to UH Search Division of Research About Organization Strategic Plan Research Thrusts 50-in-5 International Research National Centers Centers and Institutes Core Facilities Consortiums Research and Scholarship Committee UH Research Deans Notable Faculty Funding Opportunities Identifying Opportunities Limited Submissions Internal Awards Resources for Investigators Early Career Investigators Unique Opportunities Texas Research Incentive Program (TRIP) Center Requests For Proposals (RFPs) Internal Funding Terms & Conditions Sponsored Projects Pre-Award Post-Award Guidance Contracts, Audits and Policy Financial Reporting PeopleSoft Grants PI Portal Uniform Guidance A-81 Responsibilities Matrix Research Teams Other Resources Procedures, Policies and Guidelines Negotiated Indirect Rates Compliance Animal Subjects/IACUC Conflict of Interest Certification in Research Data Management Plan Effort Reporting Export Controls Human Subjects/IRB Research Congruency Review Research Misconduct Overview Research Misconduct Policy Responsible Conduct of Research Tech Transfer Resources Statistical Reports DOR Forms Business Tools New Faculty Training Systems SharePoint for DOR Frequently Asked Questions List of Faculty Authors Acronyms News & Events Contact Us Department Emails Email the DOR Send Kudos Staff Directory Technical Support Resources for ... Investigators New Faculty Inventors Research Admins Industry Partners News and Announcements McAllister & Quinn Hold Town Hall McAllister & Quinn is now supporting UH’s new intellectual capacity building project: The Presidential Frontier Faculty program. UH Students Join the X-Force Four UH students join forces with the Department of Defense to strengthen our nation's security initiatives. Rock On, Leon! The National Academy of Engineering welcomes UH research professor of geophysics, Leon Thomsen. HERE and SURF Programs supported by the Division of Research Undergraduate research is funded, in part, by the Division of Research -- which shows just how much UH values research during every part of a student's educational journey. UH Professors Named to the National Academy of Inventors Six University of Houston professors have been named Senior Members of the National Academy of Inventors (NAI), the most UH faculty members to earn the honor in a single election year. UH’s Pradeep Sharma Elected to National Academy of Engineering This year the National Academy of Engineering chose 111 new members and 22 international members. UH's Pradeep Sharma, M.D. Anderson Chair Professor of Mechanical Engineering, was one of them. 50-in-5 Faculty Honored for Major Grant Awards and Patents The University of Houston hosted its second 50-in-5 celebration event at the Wortham House on Monday, Feb. 7, honoring nearly 150 faculty members with major grant award and patent achievements. Winner of 2022 Bernd T. Matthias Prize Announced Mikhail Eremets of the Max Planck Institute for Chemistry in Mainz, Germany, has been named recipient of the 2022 Bernd T. Matthias Prize for Superconducting Materials. The Texas Center for Superconductivity at UH sponsors the award for advances in the field of superconductivity. Conducting the Future Venkat Selvamanickam, M.D. Anderson Chair Professor of Mechanical Engineering at UH’s Cullen College of Engineering, director of the Advanced Manufacturing Institute and head of the Selva Research Group, is ensuring that UH is at the forefront of the energy transition and the future of superconductivity. UH Researchers Among World’s Most Highly Cited Three University of Houston researchers have been recognized as the “world’s most influential researchers” for ranking in the top 0.1% of highly cited papers. The recognition comes from Clarivate, a global leader in providing insights and analytics. Two UH Inventors Named Fellows of the National Academy of Inventors Alex Ignatiev, professor emeritus of physics and Ganesh Thakur, Distinguished Professor of Petroleum Engineering and director of Energy Industry Partnership, have been named Fellows of the National Academy of Inventors. Faculty Celebrated for 50-in-5 Achievements More than 100 UH faculty members were celebrated for national recognition and publications achievements at Wortham House on Nov. 29 as part of the University of Houston's 50-in-5 initiative. UH's CSEL Celebrates Hispanic Heritage in Education UH's Center for the Success of English Learners celebrates Hispanic Heritage Month with this Institute of Education Sciences blog. UH Expands Research Priorities In response to new federal priorities focused on securing our energy future through the transition to more sustainable and renewable energy sources, UH has expanded its research thrusts to include Energy Security and Transition. UH Names New Assistant Vice President for Sponsored Research Administration David Schultz, assistant vice president for research administration and finance at Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute, will join the DOR as assistant vice president for sponsored research administration on November 4. Obasi Named Associate Vice President for Research Administration Professor Ezemenari Obasi has joined the Division of Research part-time as associate vice president for research administration, effective September 1. The Big Idea Magazine Spring 2021 The Spring 2021 issue of The Big Idea Magazine grapples with the challenges our society continues to face in cybersecurity, managing natural and human-induced hazards, discerning the quality of news, equity and inclusion, achieving energy sustainability and strengthening our social fabric as a nation. Digitizing the Past Digitizing the humanities at UH includes recovering the poems, articles, fiction, jokes and recipes, of Latina/o authors who published in the U.S. from the late 1800s to the 1980s. Research Reaching Houston Research Reaching Houston highlights an amazing amount of research at UH that goes beyond the laboratory to improve the quality of life for Houstonians every day. Investigating Vaccine Hesitancy in Houston’s Underserved Communities UH researcher to develop culturally responsive vaccine education program. UH Researcher Joins Team Developing Opioid Vaccine Opioid overdoses have increased during the COVID-19 pandemic. $4.5M Gift Supports Student, Faculty Success and New Lecture Series on Equity and Social Justice Transformative Gift Initiates First Matching Gift by ‘$100 Million Challenge’ for Total Impact of at Least $6.5M UH Research Communications Wins Big at CASE The UH Division of Research’s Strategic Research Communications team took home five of the highest awards at the Council for Advancement and Support of Education (CASE) District IV competition this year. Three UH Engineers Named To National Academy Of Inventors Three University of Houston Cullen College of Engineering researchers have been named Senior Members of the National Academy of Inventors (NAI) for 2021. UH Receives Funding from NSF to Create Center for Integrated Catalysis The National Science Foundation awarded $1.8 million to six researchers from four different universities to collaborate and create the Center for Integrated Catalysis. Phase 3 Reopening UH Guidelines and requirements for reopening research on campus. DOR Receives Gold CASE Award for HEALTH Research Institute Website The DOR's Strategic Research Communications team received the top award from the Council for the Advancement and Support of Education (CASE) District IV for the redesign of the HEALTH Research Institute website. 2019 Research & Innovation Annual Report The Research & Innovation annual report is now online. See the latest numbers and watch highlights from the past year. $10 Million Grant to Support Texas Center for Learning Disabilities A anonymous gift makes this UH National Center sustainable. So what's The Big Idea? The Big Idea is a blog we’re launching to better communicate the business of research to our campus community. Is your team looking for human research subjects? DOR is now a member institution of ResearchMatch – a national recruitment registry that brings together researchers and people who are interested to learn more about research studies. Two Scientists Named to National Academy of Inventors Mark Clarke and Wei-Chuan Shih have been elected to First Class of NAI Senior Members. COVID-19 Info PeopleSoft PI Portal ICON Data Sheet Statistical Reports Research Reaching Houston Our researchers are world-class, and their work directly impacts our city. Learn more about how UH faculty go beyond the borders of campus into Houston to solve some of the most pressing issues we face. Research Reaching Houston Events Jun 01 12:00 pm An Entrepreneur’s Journey: Inside the Mind of a Serial Entrepreneur Join us to hear from serial Entrepreneur Neal Murthy, CEO of Talinnt, and founder of 8 startups. Jun 10 9:00 am The Fundamentals of Deep Learning In this workshop, you’ll learn how deep learning works through hands-on exercises in computer vision and natural language processing. Inside Research Every Wednesday, the Division of Research sends news, event, funding opportunities and other resources to the UH Research Community. Sign up for Inside Research. Presidential Frontier Faculty Program A REVOLUTIONARY NEW VISION FOR FACULTY HIRES The Presidential Frontier Faculty program is a university-wide integrated interdisciplinary faculty hiring campaign supported by President Renu Khator. It is initiated by the Senior Vice President and Provost Paula Myrick Short and Vice President for Research Amr Elnashai and managed by the Provost. The program encompasses hiring a large cohort of convergence research faculty to respond to federal priorities and societal challenges. Learn More Research Thrusts UH Preeminence: 50-in-5 is a new university-wide program focused on increasing our research and scholarly output 50 percent by 2023. This includes the doubling of our national centers from five to 10. Provost Paula Short and Vice President for Research Amr Elnashai have partnered with college leadership, the faculty senate and faculty leaders throughout the University to determine metrics and alternative measures for every discipline that would advance the University of Houston. Learn more about the 50-in-5 initiative > Research & Innovation Facilities UH Technology Bridge Core Facilities Innovation Center Centers & Institutes Key Offices Leadership Staff Directory Contracts and Grants OCG reviews and submits research proposals, negotiates and accepts awards, and handles billing, financial and effort reporting, and close-out for sponsored projects. Research Integrity and Oversight RIO ensures compliance with federal regulations in areas concerning human subjects, animal subjects, conflicts of interest, grant congruency and responsible conduct of research. Animal Care Operations ACO provides veterinary and husbandry services to support animals used in biomedical and behavioral research, including the maintenance of standards for animals, facilities, equipment and procedures. Tech Transfer and Innovation OTTI manages patents, copyrights and trademarks, and works with faculty to file patents for inventions with the goal of transferring UH technology to industry. Business Operations Business Operations provides HR and office administration support for the Division of Research. Communications Communications is responsible for raising the visibility of UH research and innovation programs nationally, among peer institutions and throughout Houston’s regional industry. Latest Research News May 24, 2022 Stem Cell Cloning Experts Unraveling Cystic Fibrosis May 19, 2022 Fertitta Family Pledges $50 Million to UH College of Medicine to Propel ‘New Era of Health Care’ May 18, 2022 Deciphering the Brain and How the Visual System Processes Information May 17, 2022 Shale Reservoirs Could be ‘Substantial Source of Lithium’ May 16, 2022 Buildup of Solar Heat Likely Contributes to Mars’ Dust Storms, Researchers Find May 16, 2022 Trauma of Migrant Separation Lingers Long After Reunification University of Houston Houston, Texas 77204 (713) 743-2255 A–Z Index Academic Calendar Campus Carry Policy Campus Map Careers at UH Directory Emergency Information Get Help Human Resources Library Mental Health Resources Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Office of the President Parking Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness Texas Veterans Portal Tuition & Fees UH System ©2022 University of Houston. All rights reserved. Report a problem with this page Texas.gov Texas Homeland Security TRAIL Fraud Reporting Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Linking Notice Privacy Notice Open Records/Public Information Act Institutional Résumé Required Reports Electronic & Information Resources Accessibility Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness University Policies