Skip to main content About Us History Who We Are Student Life Equity, Diversity, and Inclusion Our Campus Open Positions News Contact Us Training Acting Design Directing Dramaturgy and Dramatic Criticism Playwriting Stage Management Technical Design and Production Theater Management Academic Calendar Productions Production Calendar Past Productions Production Opportunities Admissions Degrees and Nondegree Study Application Deadlines and Fees International Student Applicants Tuition and General Expenses Financial Aid Visitor Days Frequently Asked Questions Alumni Welcome Support David Geffen School of Drama Get Involved Annual Magazine Alumni Newsletter Submit a Class Note Contact Development and Alumni Affairs Apply Financial Aid ☰ Menu About Us History Who We Are Student Life Equity, Diversity, and Inclusion Our Campus Open Positions News Contact Us Training Acting Design Directing Dramaturgy and Dramatic Criticism Playwriting Stage Management Technical Design and Production Theater Management Academic Calendar Productions Production Calendar Past Productions Production Opportunities Admissions Degrees and Nondegree Study Application Deadlines and Fees International Student Applicants Tuition and General Expenses Financial Aid Visitor Days Frequently Asked Questions Alumni Welcome Support David Geffen School of Drama Get Involved Annual Magazine Alumni Newsletter Submit a Class Note Contact Development and Alumni Affairs Search Apply Financial Aid We can imagine you here. Welcome from the Deans X Explore Graduate professional training in every theatrical discipline. Acting Chair Tamilla Woodard Degrees Offered M.F.A. and Certificate Application Deadline is 1/2/2020 Explore Design Co-Chairs Toni-Leslie James, Riccardo Hernández Degrees Offered M.F.A. and Certificate Application Deadline is 2/1/2020 Explore Directing Chair Liz Diamond Degrees Offered M.F.A. and Certificate Application Deadline is 12/1/2019 Explore Dramaturgy and Dramatic Criticism Chair Catherine Sheehy Degrees Offered M.F.A. and D.F.A Application Deadline is 1/2/2020 Explore Playwriting Chair Tarell Alvin McCraney Degrees Offered M.F.A. and Certificate Application Deadline is 12/1/2019 Explore Stage Management Chair Narda E. Alcorn Degrees Offered M.F.A. and Certificate Application Deadline is 2/1/2020 Explore Technical Design and Production Chair Shaminda Amarakoon Degrees Offered M.F.A. and Certificate Application Deadline is 2/1/2020 Explore Theater Management Chair Joan Channick Degrees Offered M.F.A. and M.F.A./M.B.A. Application Deadline is 2/1/2020 Explore Building an Anti-Racist Coalition → An Extraordinary and Unprecedented Gift from David Geffen Yale University has announced a gift of $150 million from the David Geffen Foundation in support of the School of Drama. This extraordinary and unprecedented gift ensures that from this day forward, in perpetuity, full-time students in degree and certificate programs will receive 100% tuition remission, beginning with the 2021–22 academic year. These programs are now, and always will be, “tuition free.” In celebration of this gift, the largest in the history of the American theater, Yale School of Drama is now the David Geffen School of Drama at Yale University. About the Gift About David Geffen Our Mission David Geffen School of Drama and Yale Repertory Theatre train and advance leaders in the practice of every theatrical discipline, making art to inspire joy, empathy, and understanding in the world. home_slider2 OUR CORE VALUES: Artistry We expand knowledge to nurture creativity and imaginative expression embracing the complexity of the human spirit. home_slider4 OUR CORE VALUES: Belonging We put people first, centering well-being, inclusion, and equity for theater makers and audiences through anti-racist and anti-oppressive practices. home_slider5 OUR CORE VALUES: Collaboration We build our collective work on a foundation of mutual respect, prizing the contributions and accomplishments of the individual and of the team. home_slider3 OUR CORE VALUES: Discovery We wrestle with compelling issues of our time. Energized by curiosity, invention, bravery, and humor, we challenge ourselves to risk and learn from failure and vulnerability. On and Off York Street Patricia McGregor (’09) Named Artistic Director of NY Theatre Workshop The search committee was “particularly struck by how McGregor demonstrated her experience with inclusive leadership.” Camilla Tassi ’22 Named 2022 Burry Fredrik Design Fellow Foundation promotes the development of new work and the fiscal health of professional theaters in Connecticut. Marc Robinson ’90 MFA, ’92 DFA Appointed Malcolm G. Chace ’56 Professor Robinson teaches courses on the American avant-garde, modern American drama, contemporary performance in the US and UK, and critical writing. Skylight Theatre Company Welcomes Armando Huipe (’19) as New Executive Director Prior to joining the Skylight team, Armando developed extensive leadership skills while working as an independent arts management consultant. More News Events Bio × Course Detail × × × Quick Links Current Faculty, Staff & Students Portal Make a Gift Open Positions Contact Us Admissions Brochure Accessibility Privacy Policy Our Community Yale Repertory Theatre Binger Center for New Theatre Yale Cabaret Yale Summer Cabaret Theater Magazine Copyright © 2022 David Geffen School of Drama. All rights reserved. Designed by L2 Interactive Retrieving performance data. Please wait. This may take a few moments. Error There was an error loading the select your own seat. Row Seat Subscription Select a Seat Type Row Seat Zone Seat Type Price Select Button Choose a Date Choose Your Seats No Seats Added Checkout Zone Row Seat Type Price