Skip to main content Skip to primary site menu Skip to primary site search Google Tag Manager Research at Brown Show/Hide Home Conducting Research at Brown Centers, Institutes and Libraries Undergraduate Research Assistance How Do I...? Forms and Templates Submitting an Application | New Applications | Appendices and Supporting Documents | Consent/Assent Forms & HIPAA Authorizations | Revision Forms | Progress Reports, Study Closures & Reportable Events | Self-Determination Tools & Checklists Submitting an Application to the Brown IRB Principal Investigators must submit an application and required supplemental materials for research activities that meet the definition of human subjects research. Download a submission form from this page each time you submit. Forms are periodically updated to meet any changes in federal regulations and Brown policy. Submissions using forms that are more than 30 calendar days out of date will not be accepted. All IRB/HRPP submission forms and templates are provided below. Submission instructions Ensure that you have completed all required CITI training and Conflict of Interest reporting before you submit any new application materials. Abide by the "Single Submission Policy." For an accurate sequential review of your study submissions, HRPP will only accept one submission per study at a time. For example, if you have a progress report under review, you may not submit an amendment for the same study until the first submission is approved. E-mail all submissions to: [email protected]. (Please do NOT submit to an individual HRPP staff member. Please do not copy individual HRPP staff members on your submissions.) Include all submission materials in ONE single PDF file attachment. Please do NOT attach multiple files, Word docs, or zip files. PIs should not embed any associated documents into the application. Required documents (i.e. recruitment material, consent document, surveys) should be included in the single PDF, but not in the associated sections of the application. Certain components of human subjects research may require Ancillary Review by a department outside of the IRB. These reviews are independent of IRB approval and will not delay approval to conduct your research. However, compliance with the determinations of an ancillary review are required before you can begin research activities. *NEW* HRPP has a One Application Policy in accordance with Title 45 CFR 46.115 (Health and Human Services, IRB Records) and Title 21 CFR 56.115 (Food and Drug Administration, IRB Records). All new initial studies (Exempt/Expedited/Full Board) reviewed by the HRPP/IRB after May 1, 2022 will receive stamped IRB Approved Documents upon approval, which must be submitted for all future amendments and progress reports in order to maintain a single, active application that incorporates all IRB-approved amendments. If the PI is a graduate or medical student, the student’s academic advisor (as listed on the application) must be copied on e-mailed submissions. Expect a holistic review of your active study. The HRPP conducts a holistic review of your active study with each submission as part of normal review procedures to ensure it remains in compliance with current federal regulations, Brown policies, and IRB position statements. For example, if modifying compensation on a flyer, HRPP will review the entire flyer to confirm that it meets Brown's current recruitment policy. Need help? Please contact HRPP staff at 401-863-3050 or [email protected] New Applications New applications must be reviewed and approved by the IRB prior to conducting research with human participants. Depending on the details of the proposed research, supplemental forms and approvals may be required. Please ensure that you have completed required CITI training and your Conflict of Interest disclosure BEFORE you submit your study application. Before you submit a new application, the Brown HRPP strongly encourages you to review its web page, Does My Project Need IRB Review? Submission instructions are found above. Form When to use Last Updated Undergraduate Research For Undergraduate Work Involving Human Subjects. If the project meets the criteria for undergraduate research, please provide The Letter of Introduction for Undergraduate Work Involving Human Subjects to all participants. November 2020 Application for Exemption For all human subjects research that meets the criteria of an Exempt review category, as determined by the federal regulations (45 CFR 46.104). June 2020 Application for Expedited / Full Board IRB Review For all research requiring review by the full IRB Board at a convened meeting OR Meeting the criteria of an Expedited review category, as determined by the federal regulations (45 CFR 46.110). June 2020 IAA Application When requesting to implement a reliance agreement to relinquish IRB oversight to another institution or for Brown to become the IRB of record for the human subjects work being done at a collaborating institution. Please visit Collaborative Research for more information. Use the IAA Investigator Checklist to ensure all procedural requirements are met. July 2020 Appendices and Supporting Documents Appendices must be submitted with a New Application as applicable and may also be required if details of the research change after approval is granted. Download When to use Updated Appendix A: Children as Subjects When children will be included as subjects January 2019 Appendix B: Prisoners As Subjects When prisoners are included as participants; or prisoners' identifiable private information/identifiable biospecimens are obtained, used, studied, or analyzed. October 2021 Appendix C: Use of Drugs When research includes the use of approved or unapproved drugs May 2016 Appendix D: Use of Devices When research includes the use of approved or unapproved devices May 2016 Appendix E: Prescription Drug/Medication Management When study procedures include administering prescription medications to study participants. Guidance for Investigators: Management of Human Research Studies Involving Drugs and Medications January 2019 Appendix F: Mental Health Safety Plan When participants may experience significant emotional distress, or be at risk of harming themselves or others. January 2020 Appendix G: Use of Protected Health Information (PHI) in Research Complete this appendix when the proposed research involves the access, use or disclosure of PHI. This appendix will document how authorization/permission related to PHI will be obtained, or if a waiver of authorization is being requested April 2020 Appendix H: International Research When research activities will occur in a non-US location. * An International Research Attestation is required when investigators/collaborators are currently located at an international study site and are able to resume in-person procedures and when investigators are initiating a new study abroad. March 2020 Appendix I: Advisor When a graduate or medical student is the Principal Investigator. April 2022 Additional Investigators' COI When additional Investigators' Conflict of Interest (COI) disclosures need to be added to any of the above applications or to an amendment (form seen below). June 2019 DSMB Charter Template The DSMB charter defines the responsibilities for the study principal investigator and DSMB members and sets guidelines for the conduct of DSMB meetings. September 2019 Data Security Assessment Use this form when revising an approved study or as requested by the HRPP. This form should reflect the confidentiality measures for all human subjects data collected in your study, not just new data. April 2020 Request to Serve as a PI Individuals who are not automatically eligible for PI status by virtue of their appointment or employment type must submit this form to the appropriate institutional officials and be approved for PI eligibility. June 2020 Consent/Assent Forms and HIPAA Authorizations Every consent form must include essential elements of informed consent as described in federal regulations. The Brown HRPP provides to below templates and guidance to support researchers in developing consent forms for different study populations and study procedures. Form Guidance and Instructions Last Updated Standard Consent Template for Adults (18+) For studies that are greater than minimal risk, more complex, or are more than 3 pages in length. Standard Consent Template Guidance Standard Consent Template Example Additional Standard Consent Language February 2020 Bulleted Consent Template for Adults (18+) For studies that are minimal risk, less complex and are less than 3 pages in length. Bulleted Consent Template Guidance Bulleted Consent Example Additional Bulleted Consent Language February 2020 Child Assent Template (Ages 7-12) Child Assent Template (Ages 13-17) For studies including children as participants (ages 7 - 17). Child Assent Template Guidance Child Assent Template Ages 7-12 Example Child Assent Template Ages 13-17 Example September 2021 Consent Addendum For studies adding new activities or procedures that require an additional consent process for enrolled participants - either currently active or completed with permission to be re-contacted for future procedures in the same study. Consent Addendum Example: Active Participants Consent Addendum Example: Completed Participants June 2020 Data Repository Consent (15+) Template Data Repository Assent (7-14) Template Data Repository Parent Permission Template For studies with federal grants that require PIs to ask their participants to share anonymized human subject data with a federal repository. If an award has this requirement, participants must consent before their research data can be shared. Use this document to supplement the informed consent process and explain the requirement to participants. Data Repository Consent Addendum Guidance February 2022 The Letter of Introduction for Undergraduate Work Involving Human Subjects For Undergraduate Work Involving Human Subjects that meets the criteria for undergraduate research. June 2019 Brown University MRI Research Facility Addendum For Brown University research studies that involve the use of the MRI Research Facility, use this consent addendum to provide important information to participants about MRI scans and safety procedures. The text of this addendum should not be modified. PIs using this document should only add their study title, version and date indicated by the shaded brackets of the header. This document can be used for participants aged 15 and over. March 2021 HIPAA Authorization When seeking a participant's authorization to use PHI for the purpose of your research August 2019 Revision Forms Changes to approved research must be requested and approved before implementation. Download When to use Updated Administrative Acceptance Form Examples of changes that are administrative in nature include: Addition of new external funding that does NOT support changes to study population/procedures. Updated graphics on a recruitment flyer Changes to correct typographical or grammatical errors (NO content changes allowed with this form) Additional guidance may be found here. Feb 2020 Revision Request Form: Full Board/Expedited Amendments and Exempt Modifications Submit when: making changes to an Exempt, Expedited, or Full Board study adding or modifying study design, eligibility criteria, recruitment process, study materials, measures, and/or consent documents, etc. Oct 2020 IAA Application (Amendment) This form should be used to add an IAA to an existing approved protocol. The IAA request should be the only modification listed on this application. July 2020 Progress Reports, Study Closures & Reportable Events Download When to use Updated *REVISED* Progress Report Form Use for submission of annual continuing reviews if your study has not been released from continuing review Click here for instructions on completing the progress report form. **Attention Apple users: Word 2016 is required for MACs** Microsoft Office 2016 download is available for free to all Brown staff and Brown-paid faculty on the CIS Software webpage. October 2021 Study Closure Form Investigators should use this form to request the closure of any Brown research study outside of Continuing Review. Research Data Management Offboarding Checklists The purpose of these checklists is to serve as a guide for Brown researchers closing out a project (checklist 1) or leaving Brown (checklist 2) with regard to research data by orienting them to existing policies, guidance, and tools available at Brown. June 2020 Reportable Events Form Investigators must use this form to report to HRPP any Reportable Events as defined in the Institutional Review Board Policy on Reportable Events and Noncompliance. All qualifying events must be reported consistent with reporting time frames, also noted in the policy. July 2021 Self-Determination Tools & Checklists Self-determination tools and checklists are guides to assist Brown researchers in complying with federal regulations and Institutional policy. These guides are not applications. Do not submit these guides to the HRPP. Form When to use Last Updated Human Subjects Research Self-Determination Tool Use this tool to determine if your project meets the definition of human subjects research. July 2021 Human Subjects Self-Determination Decision Tree Use this decision tree to help you determine if your study involves human subjects. July 2021 IAA Investigator Checklist Use this checklist to ensure all procedural requirements are met before submitting an IAA Application reliance request for collaborative research. July 2021 Research Data Management Offboarding Checklists Study Closure Leaving Brown Use these checklists when closing out studies or before leaving Brown to ensure compliance with research data management, sharing, storage, transfer, and retention. July 2021 Conducting Research at Brown Finding Funding Research Strategy and Development (ORSD) Preparing and Submitting a Proposal Managing an Award Sponsored Projects (OSP) Research Compliance (IRB, IACUC, COI, Export Control, Research Data Management and Data Use Agreements) ORI staff directory Research Misconduct Policy Authorship Policy IRB COVID-19 and Human Subjects Research Does My Project Need IRB Review? IRB Guidance & Policies Forms & Templates Exemption Categories Expedited Categories Full Board Meeting and Deadline Dates Clinical Trials Collaborative Research HRPP Learning Library HRPP Glossary Revised Common Rule IRB FAQs Contact Us Information for Research Participants IACUC Export Control Conflict of Interest QA/QI Program DURC ESCRO IBC Research Data Management Brown Technology Innovations Research Administration Information Systems (RAIS) Research Management Support (RMS) Research Agreements and Contracting International Research & Activities Responsible Conduct of Research (RCR) How Do I...? 2022 Research Achievement Award Winners About the Office Newsletter Forms and Policies Training and Outreach Graduate Student Resources Explore Brown University Search Brown Show/Hide Learn More About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life Find A to Z Index People Directory Information for Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Top Destinations Global Brown Watson Institute Graduate School Alpert Medical School School of Public Health School of Engineering Office of the Vice President for Research 350 Eddy Street | Brown University | Box 1937 | Providence, RI 02912 Vice President for Research 401-863-7408 [email protected] Research Strategy and Development 401-863-7999 [email protected] Brown Technology Innovations 401-863-7499 [email protected] Office of Sponsored Projects 401-863-2777 [email protected] Research Administration and Information Systems 401-863-2777 [email protected] Office of Research Integrity 401-863-3050 [email protected] @brownuresearch Giving to Brown Brown University Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-1000 Maps & Directions / Contact Us / Accessibility © 2022 Brown University Connect: [email protected] Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram iTunes U Google+ LinkedIn SnapChat