Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu School of Social Work About Programs Apply Now Students Faculty & Staff Research Community Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact Social Work Community News & Events Field Resources Licensure Annual Symposium Career Center Job Opportunities Take Action Learn more about Social Work Explore the School of Urban Affairs and Public Policy Support Social Work Education Contact Us Follow Us Online Facebooktwitter Home Social Work Community Community and Professional Resources Find links to field documents, academic supports, and general resources helpful to social work professionals and current students using the navigation bar to the left. Faculty and student produced resources are highlighted below. Telehealth and Teletherapy Resources and the Coronavirus During this period of drastic change, many services are resorting to remote versions at their typical delivery. Social Work is not excluded, with telehealth and teletherapy services growing significantly in the wake of the pandemic. We will be providing a list of articles, guidelines, and resources to help our faculty, students, and the community adjust during this crisis. Telehealth and Teletherapy Resources Community Resource Directory Community Resource Directory. This directory has been developed to serve as a community service by Dr. Susan Elswick in the School of Social Work. Please contact Dr. Elswick with any agency changes or additions. Clinical Supervision Directory Directory of Clinical Supervisors. Please note: the directory will continue to be updated as clinical supervisors request to have their information listed. If you are a licensed clinical social worker interested in providing clinical licensure supervision to LMSWs, please complete a request form to be added to our Social Work Supervision Directory. Please contact Dr. Laura Taylor with any questions. Field Information The School of Social Work works with many professional and community partners for the Field Placement internship program. Community partners interested in hosting a student for Field Placement can contact Cherry Malone for details. More information can be found on the Field Resources page School Social Work Licensure MSW School Social Work Licensure BA of Social Work School Social Work Licensure Social-Emotional Curriculum Resources for Faculty and Community Partners Poverty Fact Sheets Earned Income Tax Credit Information If you are hosting an event in partnership with the University of Memphis School of Social Work that offers Continuing Education Units (CEUs), please complete and submit the following form along with supporting documents to our Main Office for archival purposes: School of Social Work CEU Archive Cover Form Peer Power Institute In partnership with the University of Memphis and Memphis-Shelby County Schools, the Peer Power Institute is looking to recruit high achieving college students to tutor high school students in the classroom for the 2022-2023 school year as Success Coaches. Currently 100 University of Memphis students are employed by the Institute and are the second largest employer on the campus after the University itself. Benefits of being a Peer Power Success Coach include: Work and go to School with flexible scheduling Receive a competitive wage at $17.50+ an hour Solidify foundational subject content mastery in English and Math Develop career readiness and social-emotional skills Build your resume Mentor younger students Train alongside a diverse group of fellow students from a variety of areas of study Receive support in your own academic and career journey Further information can be found here : UOM-Peer Power Foundation 2021-2022 Senior Information Handbook Provided by: Aging Commission of the Mid-South https://www.shelbycountytn.gov/DocumentCenter/View/38651/Senior-Information-Handbook-2021-2022- Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 5/5/22 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.