Skip to main content MyUW Calendar Directories Libraries UW Medicine Maps UW News Helpful Links Computing/IT ISC/Workday Husky Card UW Bothell UW Tacoma UW Facebook UW Twitter University of Washington University of Washington Students Parents Faculty & Staff Alumni Quick Links UW Leadership Regents President Biography Vice presidents Invite the president Town Hall Provost Vice provosts Deans and chancellors Invite the provost Office of the President Menu UW Leadership Regents President Biography Vice presidents Invite the president Town Hall Provost Vice provosts Deans and chancellors Invite the provost Home Office of the President Archive We can all play a part in working to end racist violence May 16, 2022 We can all play a part in working to end racist violence Ana Mari Cauce Resources Bias Reporting Tool Washington State Human Rights Commission Complaint Form Let’s Talk (Seattle campus) Accessing mental health care (Seattle campus students) Counseling services (UW Tacoma students) Counseling services (UW Bothell students) UW CareLink (PEBB benefits eligible employees, their dependents and household members) The horrific massacre in Buffalo, N.Y. targeting Black shoppers at a local grocery store was a grim reminder that we must work harder and redouble our efforts to address the factors that fuel hate-driven rampages like the one that claimed ten lives and wounded three on Saturday. My heart is with the families of those slain in Buffalo, grieving the unimaginable horror of violence aimed specifically at Black people in their own community. The city of Buffalo holds a special place in my heart — it was the city where my family of Cuban emigres officially entered the U.S. So, it was particularly jarring and horrific to hear about the shootings in this city that I have always associated with our nation’s promise of liberty and justice for all. Yet, the shooting in Buffalo takes its place in a terrible string of violent acts motivated by racism and bigotry – the locations all too familiar to us: Atlanta, El Paso, Orlando, Pittsburgh, and Charleston. Recent shootings at Asian-run businesses in Dallas are also being investigated as potentially racially motivated. White nationalism and white supremacy are driving up incidents of domestic terrorism nationwide, and what used to be considered the racist lunatic fringe has entered the mainstream, with violence as the extreme, yet inevitable, result. We are a fractured nation, far from realizing our own ideals. As we grieve for the victims in Buffalo, we must examine our own responsibilities and capacity for reversing what has become a public health crisis. This Wednesday, the UW Office of Minority Affairs & Diversity will celebrate another year of outstanding work across our community to foster equity, diversity and inclusion in our culture and practices. That includes being mindful of how an act of targeted violence can make members of our own community feel; if you are struggling with this tragedy, remember that it’s okay to ask for help — you’ll find resources in the sidebar. Although we still have a long way to go, I am so proud of the work OMA&D — and so many in our UW community – are doing to advance this work. We can, we must, do better– together. Reimagining Safety at the University of Washington Creating learning, working and living environments that enable each of us to be successful requires a holistic approach to safety and well-being that brings together a range of resources in a coordinated, accountable manner. As we continuously evaluate the safety of our community, a rethinking of how we keep our University community safe is required. Learn More President’s Blog Celebrating AANHPI Heritage Month and the promise of an inclusive nation 6 days ago We can all play a part in working to end racist violence 2 weeks ago Ending violence against Indigenous people starts with ending silence around it 4 weeks ago On Husky Giving Day, we all have a chance to make a difference 2 months ago More Subscribe Email RSS President’s Twitter Tweets by amcauce Please enable JavaScript to view this widget. Invite the president Want President Ana Mari Cauce to attend your event? Submit a request. University of Washington Be boundless Connect with us: Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Pinterest Accessibility Contact Us Jobs Campus Safety My UW Rules Docket Privacy Terms Newsletter © 2022 University of Washington | Seattle, WA