SMU Cox Display Navigation and Site Search SMU Cox School of Business SMU Cox Utility Navigation Students Companies Alumni Apply Contact Us smu.edu Display Navigation Display Search Search SMU SMU Cox Main Navigation At SMU Cox Display At SMU Cox Sub Menu An exceptional school in the heart of a vibrant, global, business-friendly city. Collins Center Cox News Cox Events Graduate Outcomes CoxToday Magazine Academic Departments Career Growth Global Programs Degrees & Programs Display At SMU Cox Sub Menu Rigorous programs within a truly customized academic experience. Master of Science MS in Accounting MS in Business Analytics MS in Finance MS in Management MS Health Promotion Management MS in Sport Management MBA Full-Time Two-Year MBA Full-Time One-Year MBA MBA Direct Professional MBA Online MBA Executive MBA Joint Degrees JD/MBA MA / MBA MS Engineering / MBA Undergraduate Bachelor of Business Administration Non-Degree Executive Education Summer Business Institute Diversity & Inclusion Display At SMU Cox Sub Menu Shaping Leaders for a Changing World. Diversity at Cox Latino Leadership Initiative I Am Latino in America Subiendo Academy at SMU Cox School Dean’s Message Executive Education Display At SMU Cox Sub Menu Meet your career challenges head-on by mining the expertise of the nation's top business leaders. Programs for Individuals Custom Solutions Latino Leadership Initiative HR Roundtable Graduate Certificates Collins Center Learning Culture Display At SMU Cox Sub Menu An innovative learning culture influences the way the world does business. Centers and Institutes Academic Departments Research Business Library NextGen Cox Curriculum People & Community Display At SMU Cox Sub Menu A community where professors know students by name and help them create powerful networks. Students Alumni Faculty Companies Cox Executive Board Cox100 Press Releases Display Search Utility Navigation Students Companies Alumni Apply Contact Us smu.edu Master of Science in Accounting Master of Science in Accounting Overview Curriculum Support for Your Success Admissions Overview Curriculum Support for Your Success Admissions Expand your career while you prepare for CPA certification There's a reason most Cox School MSA students land jobs with top firms before they even graduate: This nine-month program, which Public Accounting Report ranked No. 3 in the U.S. among smaller schools, has an edge. Not only do you learn technical and soft skills with award-winning professors who are always there for you, but you'll also have the option to prepare for your CPA and target your goals with electives. With Dallas on your doorstep — ie: enviable internships and valuable connections — and a dynamic career center, you'll be ready to run with your degree. Contact Us MEET 1:1 WITH ADMISSIONS Request More Information Start Your Application The MSA program prepared us so well that I passed all four parts of the CPA exam the summer before I began working full‐time. Each year, Professor Sommers improves the Cox MSA, updating the curriculum based on student feedback and his experience. Stephanie Lau Audit Senior Assistant at Deloitte, MSA 2016 Find Your Student Club See All Clubs Consulting & Corporate Strategy Club This dynamic organization guides SMU students to success in the ever changing business landscape. The club offers members case interview practice, a chance to network with local boutique and specialty consulting firms to create consulting project opportunities, and face time with hiring managers. Cox Graduate Finance Club If you’re interested in an investment-related career or corporate finance, this club is for you. Along with students from other MS and MBA programs, you'll get chances to network when you attend speaker panels, visit Dallas firms, join pitch competitions and mix it up at happy hours and crawfish boils. Real Estate Club You don’t need real estate experience to benefit from membership in this club — if you’re looking to work in this exciting industry, it’s for you. Careers in real estate are driven by relationships, and members strive get valuable knowledge, connections and professional opportunities in the commercial real estate world. By the Numbers: The Cox MSA Class of 2022 Class Size 82 Average GMAT 658 Average GPA 3.61 Women 51% Number of Countries Represented 9 International Students 11% After Cox: Success Stories Allison Cooley, MSA 2012 Senior financial analyst at Southwest Airlines “The accounting program at SMU was the best decision I have made. My professors help me realize my potential for pursuing a career in accounting and pushed me to go beyond just graduating with a Master’s degree in accounting, but also to get my CPA license.” After completing her BBA as an accounting major at SMU Cox, Allison Cooley branched out and enrolled in the Cox MSA program with a tax concentration. On graduating — with her CPA license, thanks to a push from her professors — Allison accepted a job as a tax consultant at Deloitte. Two years later, license in hand, she switched back to accounting, and today she forecasts revenue as a senior financial analyst at Southwest Airlines. Sabrina Janski, MSA 2017 Assurance associate at PwC When Poets&Quants featured Sabrina Janski as one of its Best and Brightest of 2016, the then SMU Cox undergrad said, “I would love to begin working as a full-time associate for Pricewaterhouse Coopers” post-graduation. Done! First, she dived deeper by studying for her MSA at Cox and interning in PwC's downtown Dallas office during her spring term. A few months later, on graduating, the company offered her a job: full-time associate. Eric Mercado, MSA 2016 Assurance associate at EY Eric Mercado was one of five SMU Cox accounting students whose team won the Ernst & Young Beam Abroad Case Competition and were whisked off to London, where they visited the EY London office and shared a meal with the EY global leadership team. Connections matter. Today, Eric is working at EY in Dallas. SMU Cox Footer Utility Nav Give Contact Us Apply © Cox School of Business Southern Methodist University PO Box 750333 Dallas, Texas 75275-0333 214-768-2000 SMU Cox Legal Home SMU Cox on Social Media Facebook Instagram Twitter