Skip to main content Navigation Academics Admissions Research Locations Student Life Alumni & Giving Athletics Apply Now Materials Science and Engineering (BS) Program at a Glance Program Bachelor College(s) College of Engineering and Computer Science Department(s) Materials Sci & Engineering In State Tuition Out of State Tuition $212.28 per credit hour $748.89 per credit hour Learn more about program tuition and fees. Admission Requirements Students who wish to declare their major in Materials Science and Engineering must be in good academic standing and must have a grade of "C" (2.0) or better in each of the following courses or their equivalents: MAC 2311, MAC 2312, CHM 2045C, and PHY 2048C. Degree Requirements The Materials Science and Engineering Department requires all students in the Materials Science and Engineering Major to earn a "C" (2.0) or better in the following sections: Section 2: Common Program Pre-requisites (CPP), Section 3: Core Requirements Basic Level, Section 4: Core Requirements - Advanced Level, Section 5: Restricted / Approved Technical Electives, and Section 6: Capstone Requirement. Students in the Materials Science and Engineering major are expected to make consistent good progress toward their degrees to remain enrolled in, or eligible for, any major in the College of Engineering & Computer Science (CECS) or the College of Optics and Photonics (COP). Therefore, any student majoring in Materials Science and Engineering who repeats any UCF course and does not earn a grade of "C" (2.0) or better on the second attempt will be placed on Lack of Progress Probation and remain on Lack of Progress Probation as long as the student is enrolled in a CECS or COP major. If a student on Lack of Progress Probation does not receive a grade of "C" (2.0) or better by the third attempt in the same UCF course, the student will be excluded from all CECS and COP majors. Any student majoring in Materials Science and Engineering who has accumulated 7 or more unsuccessful attempts (i.e., grades below "C" (2.0) and withdrawals) over all courses taken at UCF will be placed on Lack of Progress Probation and remain on Lack of Progress Probation as long as the student is enrolled in a CECS or COP major. If a student on Lack of Progress Probation has a tenth unsuccessful attempt over all courses taken at UCF, the student will be excluded from all CECS and COP majors. A student who is excluded from CECS and COP majors may seek readmission to a major in CECS or COP after at least one full year has passed since exclusion. Readmission is not automatic and is dependent upon a high probability of success after readmission. Any student who is readmitted to the Civil Engineering major will be subject to all probation conditions that applied at the time of exclusion. View Full Description Undergraduate Application Deadlines Freshmen Transfers International Fall May 1 Spring November 1 Summer March 1 Fall July 1 Spring November 1 Summer March 1 Fall March 1 Spring September 1 Summer January 1 Ready to get started? Apply Today Career Opportunities UCF prepares you for life beyond the classroom. Here, you’ll experience a wide range of opportunity, like learning diverse skills from world-renowned faculty to networking with top employers across Central Florida to gaining first-hand experience in internships nearby. Achieve your degree and more as a Knight. Automotive Sheet Metal Engineer Ceramic Engineer Ceramic Engineering Professor Chemical Engineering Professor Construction Job Cost Estimator Crating and Moving Estimator Electrical Engineering Professor Electrical Estimator Electronics Engineering Professor Engineering Research Manager Global Engineering Manager Industrial Engineering Professor Marine Engineering Professor Mechanical Engineering Director Mechanical Engineering Professor Metallographer Metallurgical Engineer Petroleum Engineering Professor Process Engineering Manager Welding Engineer Show More Career Opportunities Degree Search College of Engineering and Computer Science programs Bachelors Materials Science and Engineering (BS) University of Central Florida Colleges Burnett Honors Arts and Humanities Business Community Innovation and Education Graduate Studies Health Professions and Sciences Medicine Nursing Optics and Photonics Sciences Undergraduate Studies Hospitality Management × Admission Requirements Students who wish to declare their major in Materials Science and Engineering must be in good academic standing and must have a grade of "C" (2.0) or better in each of the following courses or their equivalents: MAC 2311, MAC 2312, CHM 2045C, and PHY 2048C. Degree Requirements The Materials Science and Engineering Department requires all students in the Materials Science and Engineering Major to earn a "C" (2.0) or better in the following sections: Section 2: Common Program Pre-requisites (CPP), Section 3: Core Requirements Basic Level, Section 4: Core Requirements - Advanced Level, Section 5: Restricted / Approved Technical Electives, and Section 6: Capstone Requirement. Students in the Materials Science and Engineering major are expected to make consistent good progress toward their degrees to remain enrolled in, or eligible for, any major in the College of Engineering & Computer Science (CECS) or the College of Optics and Photonics (COP). Therefore, any student majoring in Materials Science and Engineering who repeats any UCF course and does not earn a grade of "C" (2.0) or better on the second attempt will be placed on Lack of Progress Probation and remain on Lack of Progress Probation as long as the student is enrolled in a CECS or COP major. If a student on Lack of Progress Probation does not receive a grade of "C" (2.0) or better by the third attempt in the same UCF course, the student will be excluded from all CECS and COP majors. Any student majoring in Materials Science and Engineering who has accumulated 7 or more unsuccessful attempts (i.e., grades below "C" (2.0) and withdrawals) over all courses taken at UCF will be placed on Lack of Progress Probation and remain on Lack of Progress Probation as long as the student is enrolled in a CECS or COP major. If a student on Lack of Progress Probation has a tenth unsuccessful attempt over all courses taken at UCF, the student will be excluded from all CECS and COP majors. A student who is excluded from CECS and COP majors may seek readmission to a major in CECS or COP after at least one full year has passed since exclusion. Readmission is not automatic and is dependent upon a high probability of success after readmission. Any student who is readmitted to the Civil Engineering major will be subject to all probation conditions that applied at the time of exclusion. Degree Requirements Core Requirements: Basic Level 8 Total Credits Complete all of the following The College of Engineering & Computer Science requires all engineering students to achieve a minimum 2.25 GPA in completing these courses, together with the core requirements, restricted electives, and senior design courses listed below. All students must earn a grade of "C" (2.0) or better in Core Requirements: Basic Level. Required Courses: Complete all of the following Earn at least 8 credits from the following: CHM2210 - Organic Chemistry I (3) EGN1007C - Engineering Concepts and Methods (1) EGN3211 - Engineering Analysis and Computation (3) EGS1006C - Introduction to the Engineering Profession (1) STA3032 - Probability and Statistics for Engineers (3) GEP Course: STA 3032 Core Requirements: Advanced Level 47 Total Credits All students must earn a grade of "C" (2.0) or better in Core Requirements: Advanced Level. Engineering Requirements 6 Total Credits Complete the following: EGN3365 - Structure and Properties of Materials (3) EGN3373 - Principles of Electrical Engineering (3) Materials Science and Engineering Requirements 41 Total Credits Complete all of the following Complete the following: EMA3000 - Engineering Polymeric Materials (3) EMA3012C - Experimental Techniques in Materials I (3) EMA3124 - Design and Selection of Materials (3) EMA4513 - Structures of Materials (3) EMA3102 - Thermodynamics of Materials (3) EMA4125 - Phase Transformations and Microstructural Development in Materials (3) EMA4307 - Kinetics of Materials (3) EMA4223 - Fundamentals of Mechanical Behavior of Materials (3) EMA4413 - Fundamentals of Electronic Materials (3) EMA4013C - Experimental Techniques in Materials II (3) EMA4009 - Materials in Society (2) EMA4115 - Transport Phenomena in Materials (3) EMA4602C - Materials Processing Laboratory (3) Complete at least 1 of the following: CHM2211 - Organic Chemistry II (3) PHY3101 - General Physics Using Calculus III (3) EGN3310 - Engineering Analysis-Statics (3) Restricted Electives 6 Total Credits Complete all of the following Earn at least 6 credits from the following types of courses: Technical electives are available in the BSMSE program to address specific student interests in a variety of technical areas. Students should consult with their Department for a list of approved restricted technical electives and the terms when specific courses of this type are offered. All students must earn a grade of "C" (2.0) or Better in Restricted Electives. Capstone Requirements 6 Total Credits Complete all of the following All students must earn a grade of "C" (2.0) or Better in Capstone Requirements. These courses are a capstone experience to your engineering program and should be completed in your last 2 major semesters of study. CECS encourages all engineering students to take the Fundamentals Exam during their senior year. Complete the following: EMA4915 - Materials Senior Design I (3) EMA4916 - Materials Senior Design II (3) Grand Total Credits: 67 University of Central Florida About UCF Contact Us Faculty Online Degrees Policies Privacy Notice Public Records Regulations Report a Concern UCF News 4000 Central Florida Blvd. Orlando, Florida, 32816 | 407.823.2000 © University of Central Florida