Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu School of Communication Sciences and Disorders About Programs People Research Areas Student Orgs Resources News Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact Programs MA in SLP AdmissionsCurriculumNon-CSD CourseworkClinical EducationAdditional InformationApply NowSLP Program DescriptionSLP Program Goals AuD in Audiology AdmissionsCurriculumNon-CSD CourseworkClinical EducationAdditional InformationApply NowAuD Program DescriptionAuD Program GoalsAuD Specialization TracksAuD-PhD ProgramDual AuD-MPH Program PhD in CSD Admissions Apply Now Program Description PhD Program Goals American Sign Language ASL and Deaf StudiesASL CoursesASL as World LanguageASL MinorASL Placement and CreditWhy ASL? Graduate Certificates AACPopulation Hearing HealthVocology Continuing Education Walt Fritz Seminar Diversity Take Action Apply Now Support the School Memphis Speech and Hearing Center Contact Us Follow Us Online InstagramFacebooktwitter Home School of Communication Sciences and Disorders Programs Ph.D. Apply Now Apply Now Instructions for Applying for the PhD in Communication Sciences and Disorders Applications for the PhD program in Communication Sciences & Disorders must be submitted to the Communication Sciences and Disorders Common Application System (CSDCAS). CSDCAS is a common application that is specific to Communication Sciences and Disorders. All applications will be reviewed only through CSDCAS. PhD program applications will be accepted throughout the year with review dates of October 1, February 1, and June 1. Applications submitted by February 1 will be considered for funding to begin in the following Fall semester. The following materials must be included with each application: Official Transcripts: Applicants must submit proof that they have earned a bachelor's or master's degree from an accredited college or university. Within CSDCAS you will be prompted to enter information about the schools you have attended. There is a form within CSDCAS to request official transcripts directly from the Registrar's office from each school you attended. Official transcripts should be sent to CSDCAS. Official GRE Scores: Applicants are required to take the Graduate Record Examination (GRE-General Test). Your scores cannot be more than five (5) years old. Be sure to use the CSDCAS program code 1756 to submit your scores for your application. Experiences: Enter your experiences and extracurricular activities in the CSDCAS application. Be specific about any research related experiences. Three Letters of Recommendation: Applicants should request letters of recommendation from 3 reviewers who can speak to the applicant's qualifications and potential for research-intensive PhD study. Reviewers will receive an email with a link from the CSDCAS portal where they can upload their letters of recommendation directly to the application. Resume/CV: Applicants are required to upload a current resume or CV describing all of their college and university-level educational and work experiences to the CSDCAS portal. Statement of Personal Goals: Applicants are also required to submit a personal statement that describes their research interests, previous experiences, and professional goals as specifically as possible. The statement should also clearly identify (and articulate a fit with) a faculty member in Communication Sciences and Disorders to serve as a mentor for PhD training. Applicants are strongly encouraged to investigate the research activities of faculty members in the program and to make contact with possible mentors to discuss the possibility of a mentoring relationship before submitting a formal application. The personal statement will be evaluated to help determine the fit between the applicant's interests and expertise of the faculty mentor(s). This statement must be original and written solely by the applicant. It should be uploaded within the section labeled "Supporting Documentation" in the CSDCAS application. Contact Information: Applicants should submit contact information indicating where they can be reached reliably from the time of application up to the time they may matriculate. Additional Application Instructions for International Students The UoM is authorized under Federal law to enroll non-immigrant alien students on the F-1 student visa. We accept only students with the equivalent of a U.S. bachelor's degree—16 years of formal schooling. International applicants should allow at least four months for necessary documents to be processed by the appropriate degree program and the Graduate Admissions office. All test scores and credential evaluations must be on file in the Graduate Admissions office (FedEx Institute of Technology Building, Suite 201) at least four months before the desired enrollment date. Applicants are urged to apply early to ensure full consideration. Applicants will be selected on a competitive basis and, therefore, admission will not be granted to all applicants even if they meet the minimum requirements. TOEFL Scores: All applicants who will be attending the UofM on a student visa and who are not native English speakers must supply a minimum score of 79 on the internet-based Test of English as a Foreign Language (TOEFL). Testing locations and other information can be obtained from www.toefl.org. All test scores must be sent directly from the testing agency to the UofM via CSDCAS (institution code C122). Graduate Admissions will accept scores on the International English Language Testing System (IELTS) in lieu of the TOEFL. The minimum acceptable IELTS score is 6.0. This requirement can be waived for students who have received a degree from an English-language University. Please note that these TOEFL and IELTS scores reflect the minimum acceptable scores. Students with scores higher than 79 and 6.0, respectively, will have an easier time in the program. Evaluation of Credentials: Applicants whose highest degree is from a foreign university are required to have their credentials evaluated by any credentialing agency listed on the National Association of Credential Evaluation Services web site. The evaluation must be submitted through the CSDCAS application portal. Once admitted, international students are also required to submit a health certificate, show proof of medical insurance and provide an affidavit of support and financial statement. For more information or assistance with completing those parts of the application, please visit the International Student Services. Financial assistance is available from ETS to reduce the fees for the GRE and TOEFL tests. In addition, students who qualify can request an Application Fee Waiver from CSDCAS at this link. DO’s and DON’T’s DO DO Visit our website and read the detailed instructions for completing the application process. DO Allow at least 3 to 4 weeks for official transcripts and official GRE scores to be posted in your CSDCAS application. If you are an international applicant, ensure that your WES evaluation is sent as early as possible. DO Include your relevant experiences related to research/work involvement. DO Select your letter writers carefully making sure they can speak to your unique qualities beyond just your academic abilities. DO Reach out to a faculty member to serve as a potential mentor for the PhD portion of your program. DO Upload your Fall 2021 grades as soon as they are available. DO Proofread your application carefully. DO Submit your application at least 4 weeks prior to the February 1, 2022 deadline to ensure all materials are received and verified by the deadline. DON’T DON’T Send your transcripts or GRE scores to the University of Memphis; all materials are to be sent and uploaded directly to CSDCAS. DON’T Wait to request transcripts, GRE scores, TOEFL scores, or letters of recommendation. DON’T Wait to enter your grades from your transcript. DON’T Assume your grades will be automatically entered into your application if you haven’t paid the fee and e-submitted your application. DON’T Include every experience you have ever had in the experience section; only focus on relevant experiences that are submitted concisely. For specific questions regarding our PHD program, please contact: PhD Program Committee, Chair Gavin Bidelman Ph.D. (e-mail: gmbdlman@memphis.edu, telephone: 901.678.5826) Associate Dean of Graduate Studies Lisa Lucks Mendel, Ph.D. (e-mail: lmendel@memphis.edu, telephone: 901.678.5800) admissionscsd@memphis.edu Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 3/29/22 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.