Skip to main content iastate.edu Index A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z Directory Maps Safety Sign Ons Iowa State University University Library Menu Toggle Search Toggle Search Index Hours My Library Card Give Research & Collections Find Books & Media (Quick Search) Article Indexes & Databases e-Books e-Journals - A-Z list Specific Article by Citation or DOI Course Reserves Movies and TV Streaming Video Collections WorldCat (Open Access) Catalogs of Other Libraries Iowa State Collections DataShare: ISU's Data Repository Digital Collections Digital Initiatives Digital Press Digital Repository @ Iowa State University Special Collections and University Archives Research Help Research and Course Guides Quick Search Tips Find Articles Find Dissertations and Theses Find Other Types of Material Find Audiovisual Materials Find Books Find Census Data Find Government Documents Find Images Find Legal Research Find Magazines, Journals Find Manuscripts and Archives Find Maps Find Microforms Find Newspapers and News Find Standards Cite Sources Cite Sources Overview Endnote Ask Us! Find Your Librarian Collections Areas Leisure Collection Media Center Periodical Room Reference Materials Call Numbers in Parks Library Library Storage Building Design Reading Room Design Reading Room Overview About the Design Reading Room Course Reserves - Design Reading Room Design Reading Room Staff Veterinary Medicine Library Restricted Building Access About the Vet Med Library Veterinary Medicine Library Staff Borrowing Main Desk Check Out and Return Request Books and More Pick From Shelf Service Recall or Hold an Item Renew an Item Interlibrary Loan & Document Delivery (ILL/DD) ILL/DD Overview ILL/DD Account Login Interlibrary Loan FAQ Libraries Requesting ISU Materials Unaffiliated User Terms and Conditions Missing Items Loan Periods Fines (overdue/lost items) Book a Media Item for Classroom Use Who May Borrow? Your Library Card Help & Services Accessibility Services Accessibility Services Overview Services & Equipment Available Physical Access to Parks Library Building and Collections Accessibility Services at Branch Libraries For You Services for Students Faculty & Instructors Distance Learners International Nest Alumni & Visitors Assistance Lost & Found Find Your Librarian Ask a Librarian How Do I ... Library FAQ Access E-Resources Access My Library Card Get Something That's Not Available Find Articles Find Dissertations and Theses Find Other Types of Materials Cite Sources Quick Search Tips Teaching & Class Support Library Instruction Overview Library 160 Course-related Instruction Course Reserves Research and Course Guides Workshops Copyright Information Open Scholarship Services Binding theses Solution Center Systems Status Spaces & Computers Study Rooms Group Study Rooms Research Study Rooms Quiet Areas Reserve a Library Space Parks Library spaces Floor & Tier Maps Accessible and Sensory Friendly Spaces Learning Connections Center Bookends Café International Nest Mindfulness Room Where to find ... Room Number Listings Physical Access to Parks Library Building and Collections Diaper changing stations and lactation room Restrooms Library Classroom Use Computers & Technology Assistive Technology Computers and Computer Labs Interactive Displays for Group Work Laptop & Equipment Checkout Group Equipment Loans Outlets and Wireless Printing, Copying, Scanning Other Equipment Parks Libro NVivo Software Access Design Reading Room Veterinary Medicine Library Ask Us! Laptop & Equipment Checkout Tech Lending Program Tech Lending does not do semester-long checkouts, 2 weeks is the maximum checkout period possible. If you are needing a longer-term rental please click this link for the ISU Computer Requirement page and read the FAQ dropdowns. Reserve a laptop, iPad, Camera, Sound Systems, and other equipment at lib.iastate.edu/techlending. The ISU Library equipment is for use by ISU students currently taking classes. You must have a valid physical government or ISU ID to check out the library equipment. Equipment in the Tech Lending Program is funded by CASTLE and Student Government. Contact Information Location: 101-F Parks Library Chat: Tech Lending Chat Phone: 515-294-1564 Email: lib-support@iastate.edu Reserve Equipment Suggest Equipment Category Check-Out Period Extensions allowed Not Returned Processing Fee Laptops** funded by CASTLE 7 days 1 $100.00 iPads** funded by CASTLE 7 days 1 $100.00 Graphics Tablets** funded by CASTLE 7 days 1 $100.00 Power Bank, Charger/Power Adapters, Calculators, Adapters/Cables, Computer Accessories, Electronic Kits, Amazon Echo, Portable Monitor, Hotspot funded by CASTLE 7 days 1 $25.00 Headphones funded by CASTLE 24 hrs 1 $25.00 Camera, Projectors, Projector Screen** funded by Student Government 7 days 1 $100.00 Camera Flash, Camera Microphone, Tripods, Recording Audio, Smartphone Accessories, USB Presentation Remote funded by Student Government 7 days 1 $25.00 Camera Lens funded by Student Government 7 days 1 $25.00 or $100.00* Sound System & Sound System Accessories** funded by Student Government 5 days 0 $25.00 or $100.00* *Processing Fee will be based on replacement cost. If the replacement cost is greater than $500 the fee will be $100.00 **Restricted to one item at a time. Reserving Equipment Library equipment must be reserved on our website, lib.iastate.edu/techlending. You will have to sign in through Okta and consent to Tech Lending’s terms and conditions, acknowledging your responsibilities regarding damage, theft, and late returns. Once you receive confirmation that your reservation is ready via email or text, you may pick up reserved items at the Tech Lending Room (101-F Parks Library, located just west of the Main Desk in the lobby). No-show reservations will be canceled after 24 hours of the reservation date. Picking up Equipment Allow at least five minutes for Tech Lending staff to check the equipment as they will need to confirm all items are included with the equipment and that they are in working condition. Have physical ISU or government ID ready to show the Tech Lending desk attendant. Confirm with the attendant what items you are picking up. Once you receive the items inspect them for damage or missing items and let the attendant be aware of anything you find. The desk attendant can help with basic equipment instruction. If you have any other questions, you may contact the Solution Center at solution@iastate.edu. Extensions Most Tech Lending equipment can be extended one additional rental period (See chart above). This can be granted once per rental. For extensions, contact Tech Lending lib-support@iastate.edu or 515-294-1564. If the equipment rental is overdue, an extension will not be granted. Returning Equipment Equipment must be returned before Tech Lending closes on your due date. Return all items to the Tech Lending Room (101-f) Library equipment can be neither placed in the library book drop nor left at the main desk. This ensures the equipment will be checked in properly and the borrower will not incur any penalties for not returning it. Allow at least five minutes for library staff to check the equipment as they will need to confirm receipt of all items included with the equipment and that the pieces are in working condition. Returning equipment without accessories will result in being charged for replacing the missing items, plus a $25/$100 processing fee. Borrowers should note the due date and ensure the secure and prompt return of all items. Borrowers must wait two (2) days between bookings within a category. This is to ensure all students have equal access to equipment. Use of Equipment Tech Lending equipment should only be used for academic purposes. Keep in mind, after the laptops and iPads are returned, any documents that have been saved to them will be permanently erased. The University Library is not responsible for any lost data or documents. The borrower is responsible for saving files to cloud storage (CyBox), a USB flash drive, or another memory device. Borrowers may sync additional data and applications, with the understanding that all data added by the borrower will be erased when the laptop or iPad is wiped and reset upon return. Any additional applications, media, or software purchased by the borrower during the loan period must be done with the borrower's own money and is not the responsibility of the University Library. Damage to, loss, or theft of loaned equipment during the borrowing period is the sole responsibility of the borrower. Users should not borrow equipment for use by any other student or individual. Borrowers will be assessed fees for damage on an individual basis based on multiple factors that include the extent of the damage and whether the equipment is under warranty. Damage costs assessed to a user must be paid within 30 days or borrowing privileges from the University Library will be suspended until the fee is settled. If the equipment is lost, stolen, or damaged beyond repair, your U-Bill will be charged for the full replacement cost of any equipment involved. Late Returns & Bans All equipment loans are due back before Tech Lending closes on the due date that you selected. Once an item is late, you will start receiving emails and text messages reminding you to return the item. Late items cannot be extended. Days Late Ban Length (in business days) 2 days late 1 week 3 days late 2 weeks 4 days late 4 weeks 5 days late Semester Ban* 2nd offense of 2 – 4 days late Semester Ban 2nd offense of 5 days late Permanently banned *Patron must submit 5 day late from before rental privileges can be restored the following semester. Once the equipment is 5 days late it will be marked as lost/stolen & remotely locked, you will be charged the full replacement fee. When the equipment is returned, a portion will remain on your account as an "Equipment Processing Fee." and you will be sent the 5 Day Late form to fill out. Each month late, 5% of the replacement fee will become non-refundable. If you receive an overdue notice, contact lib-support@iastate.edu The following violations may result in semester suspension of the borrower’s equipment loan privileges: Returning library technology equipment through the library book drop. Equipment left unattended or abandoned in or outside of the library. Loss/theft of equipment not reported immediately to library staff. Damaged equipment not immediately returned to Tech Lending for TechCyte repair. Repairs can only be authorized by Tech Lending staff. Library equipment returned five or more days past due. Checking out Equipment for other students to use. Violating the equipment loan agreement. Supported Operating Systems Windows = Windows 10 Macbooks = macOS Big Sur 11 Updated 12/21/21. Contact Information Location: 101-F Parks Library Chat: Tech Lending Chat Phone: 515-294-1564 Email: lib-support@iastate.edu Reserve Equipment Suggest Equipment University Library University Library 701 Morrill Rd Ames, IA 50011-2102 Ask Us! 515 294-3642 phone Email Webmaster Facebook Twitter Follow us FDLP Copyright © 1995-2022 Iowa State University of Science and Technology All rights reserved Non-discrimination Policy Privacy Policy Digital Access & Accessibility Consumer information