Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. UC News UC News right arrow down arrow UC News Search Topics right arrow down arrow UC Answers #UCtheGood In The News Arts & Culture Science & Tech International Athletics Health College Bound Impact right arrow down arrow #UCtheGood Insights Diversity Experience-Based Learning Next Lives Here Bicentennial COVID-19 Student Experience Colleges right arrow down arrow College of Allied Health Sciences College of Arts & Sciences College of Business Blue Ash College Clermont College College-Conservatory of Music College of Design, Architecture, Art, and Planning College of Education, Criminal Justice, & Human Services College of Engineering and Applied Science Graduate School College of Law College of Medicine College of Nursing College of Pharmacy Units right arrow down arrow Academic Health Center Admissions Alumni Association Board of Trustees Campus Services Equity and Inclusion Hoxworth Human Resources IT@UC Libraries Office of Innovation Office of Research President's Office Provost Public Safety Student Affairs UC Foundation Veteran's Affairs Continuing Education Media Contacts Should you get a summer job? May 24, 2022 Share on facebook Share on Twitter Pin Story Print Story Like With the spring semester over, you may wonder what to do with all your free time, especially if you are not taking summer classes. If you do not currently have a job, you may want to consider getting one. These are some benefits of summer employment: Gain valuable work experience and time-management skills. If you have little or no work history, now would be a good time to get some. That way, you will have less white space on your resume when it comes time to update it. Finding a balance between home and work life will help you to manage your time, which will be super beneficial when you start your career after college. Become less reliant on loans. You may have heard of the booming student debt crisis in our country, currently. If you do rely on loans each semester, perhaps you can accept less in loans if you save your income during the summer. You would save on interest in the long run! Have more money to do fun stuff or pay towards your next semester’s bill. There’s no doubt that your college years will be some of the most memorable of your life, so why not have a little spending cash to enjoy the ride? Perhaps treat your study buddy to a nice meal. If you’re interested in finding a summer job, you may want to utilize the following resources: If you are staying close to the university and want to work on campus, then look through job postings on jobs.uc.edu. Look for employment opportunities at local businesses. If you are still staying near campus there is a plethora of restaurants and shops in the area that are constantly looking for part-time help. Personal connections: Perhaps you have a friend or relative that has a fun job. Maybe they’re hiring. That way, you’ll get paid and work with your bestie. Social media sites: If you don’t have a LinkedIn account, you may want to look into creating one. Not only is it a good, professional tool to have when you start your career, but it is also a good resource for job hunting. Other sites, like Indeed or CareerBuilder are also very useful. Employment, especially when you have some free time, is always a good idea. You’ll make money, meet new people and gain valuable experience. With the spring semester over, you may want to consider it. Related Stories Summer financial aid and registration May 31, 2022 Information about summer financial aid and registration. Tips for traveling on a budget May 17, 2022 A few tips for traveling on a budget. Getting out of credit card debt March 14, 2022 A blog post with tips on getting out of credit card debt. Debug Query for this University of Cincinnati 2600 Clifton Ave. Cincinnati, OH 45220 513-556-0000 UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati University of Cincinnati 2600 Clifton Ave. Cincinnati, OH 45220 513-556-0000 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top