Skip to main content Skip to main navigation About Baylor Menu Campus The Vibrant Baylor Campus Then & Now Traditions School Song Fight Song Baylor Bucket List The Immortal Message The McLane Carillon Virtual Tour Campus Map Directions to Baylor Connect Social Media Baylor Magazine Baylor Proud Baylor Alumni Connect Wear the Gear Facts & Figures Overview Awards & Rankings Ask Baylor Financial Highlights Heritage History Baylor Presidents Founders & Founders Day The Naming of Baylor Baylor Campus: Then & Now Historical Timeline List of Timeline Events Prominent Bears Commission on Historic Campus Representations Leadership Office of the President Senior Administration Administrative Departments Values & Vision Give Light Core Convictions Mission Top-Tier Academics Research Apply Christian Commitment Celebrating Advent Caring Community Athletic Excellence Strategic Plan Join Us Apply Now Work Here Make a Gift Visit Baylor Our Stories Baylor>About Baylor>Campus>Traditions>Fight Song Fight Song Old Fight! Bear down you Bears of Old Baylor U We're all for you! GO BEARS! We're gonna show dear old Baylor spirit through and through! GO BEARS! Come on and fight them with all your might you bruins bold And win all our victories for the Green and Gold! B! A! Y! L! O! R! BAYLOR! BEARS! FIGHT! Come on and fight them with all your might you bruins bold And win all our victories for the Green and Gold! B-A-Y-L-O-R BAYLOR BEARS FIGHT! History behind "Old Fight!" In a Chamber-sponsored competition during the fall of 1940, Baylor student organizations wrote letters to famous musicians, asking them to compose a fight song for Baylor. Brothers Fred and Tom Waring agreed to do so. They wrote "Bear Down Baylor Bears," which was performed by the Pennsylvanians on the Warings' live national NBC radio broadcast ("The Chesterfield Pleasure Time Radio Show") on December 20, 1940. The song was used until 1947, when Baylor students Dick Baker, BA '50, and Frank Boggs, BA '48, decided they weren't satisfied with it, saying the song was "horribly hard to sing." And so, the roommates took it upon themselves to write a new fight song, one that would get students more excited and involved. They wrote it on a particularly quiet weekend on campus; many folks were in Lubbock at the Baylor vs. Texas Tech football game on October 18, 1947. The song was officially introduced outside of old Brooks Hall near Minglewood Bowl. Boggs says that the Baylor bandleader loved it, and he orchestrated unveiling the song, making copies of the words and passing them out to students. Today "Old Fight!" is as much a part of Baylor's traditions and history as Old Main and "That Good Old Baylor Line." While the lyrics have adapted over the years to what we sing today, they are still rooted in the words penned by Baker and Boggs proving again that students can and do leave an indelible mark on their school that lasts generations. Campus The Vibrant Baylor Campus Then & Now Traditions School Song Fight Song Baylor Bucket List The Immortal Message The McLane Carillon Virtual Tour Campus Map Directions to Baylor About Baylor Joining the Baylor family is an opportunity to experience a top academic environment within a dynamic Christian community. Ask Baylor Apply Now Work Here Make a Gift Visit Baylor General Information Colleges, Schools, Libraries & Research Admissions Administration Gateways For... About Baylor Anonymous Reporting Athletics Ask Baylor Bookstore Calendar Campus Map Directory Give Light Give to Baylor Illuminate Mental Health Resources News Pro Futuris Report It Search Social Media Title IX Baylor Libraries College of Arts & Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work George W. Truett Theological Seminary Graduate School Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Louise Herrington School of Nursing Research at Baylor University Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Engineering & Computer Science School of Music More Academics Undergraduate Admissions goBAYLOR Graduate Admissions Baylor Law School Admissions Social Work Graduate Programs George W. Truett Theological Seminary Admissions Online Graduate Professional Education Virtual Tour Visit Campus Annual Fire Safety and Security Notice Athletics Human Resources Marketing and Communications Office of General Counsel Office of the President Office of the Provost Operations, Finance & Administration Senior Administration Student Life University Advancement Baylor Alumni Faculty & Staff Online Graduate Professional Education Parents Prospective Faculty & Staff Prospective Students Students Copyright © Baylor® University. All rights reserved. Legal Disclosures. Baylor University • Waco, Texas 76798 • 1-800-229-5678 Campus The Vibrant Baylor Campus Then & Now Traditions School Song Fight Song Baylor Bucket List The Immortal Message The McLane Carillon Virtual Tour Campus Map Directions to Baylor Connect Social Media Baylor Magazine Baylor Proud Baylor Alumni Connect Wear the Gear Facts & Figures Overview Awards & Rankings Ask Baylor Financial Highlights Heritage History Baylor Presidents Founders & Founders Day The Naming of Baylor Baylor Campus: Then & Now Historical Timeline List of Timeline Events Prominent Bears Commission on Historic Campus Representations Leadership Office of the President Senior Administration Administrative Departments Values & Vision Give Light Core Convictions Mission Top-Tier Academics Research Apply Christian Commitment Celebrating Advent Caring Community Athletic Excellence Strategic Plan Join Us Apply Now Work Here Make a Gift Visit Baylor Our Stories