Skip to main content Toggle subitems Main navigation Meet Princeton Toggle sub-items In Service of Humanity Facts & Figures History Honors & Awards Contact Us Visit Us Our Faculty Our Students Our Alumni Our Staff Our Leadership Academic Freedom and Free Expression Academics Toggle sub-items Studying at Princeton Library Areas of Study Humanities Social Sciences Engineering Natural Sciences Advising Academic Calendar Course Tools Learning Abroad Career Development Continuing Education Innovative Learning Research Toggle sub-items Engineering & Applied Science Humanities Natural Sciences Social Sciences Interdisciplinary Approach Dean for Research Office External Partnerships Facilities & Labs One Community Toggle sub-items Lifelong Connections Student Life Arts & Culture Athletics Living in Princeton, N.J. Housing & Dining Activities & Organizations Cultural & Affinity Groups Health & Wellness Religious Life Serving the Public Good Families Admission & Aid Toggle sub-items Affordable for All About Financial Aid Current Undergraduate Financial Aid Undergraduate Admission Graduate Admission For International Students Utility menu News Events Work at Princeton Services & Resources Work-Life Balance Links for Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Giving Search Sites & People × Play video: Play Video: Seven Parks within a mile of campus Share on Facebook Share on Twitter Share on LinkedIn Email Print Video feature: A stroll off campus to Princeton parks by John Jameson, Office of Communications Oct. 11, 2012, noon There are more than 800 acres of parkland within a 15-minute walk of the Princeton University campus, offering visitors opportunities to enjoy the area's natural beauty and wildlife. Above, a marker directs travelers around the trails in the Mountain Lakes Nature Preserve. Video by John Jameson, Office of Communications While the 500 acres of Princeton University's park-like campus provide ample opportunities for quiet strolls close to home, more than 800 acres of forests, arboretums, wildlife preserves, war memorials and lakes lie within a 15-minute walk of campus. Dining Services will even pack a picnic for students ready to explore. Mountain Lakes Nature Preserve Mountain Lakes Nature Preserve This preserve, found one mile north of Nassau Street, features 74 acres of walking and biking trails that loop through forestland surrounding a reservoir. Walking trails connect the preserve to Community Park North, the Witherspoon Woods and Farm View Fields. Highlights: The main trail around the lake is a broad and welcoming walk, and summer months bring wildflowers and raspberries. Bikes are welcome on several trails. Fair warning: Some of the side trails are narrower, with overhanging brush, so watch for poison ivy, ticks and mosquitoes. Community Park North and Pettoranello Gardens Community Park North and Pettoranello Gardens One mile north of Nassau Street, 71 acres of preserved land make up this park, which is split into two sections. Closest to campus, a meadow and paved paths surround an amphitheater and pond in the Pettoranello Gardens section; to the north, trails run through a pine plantation toward the Mountain Lakes Nature Preserve and the Witherspoon Woods. Highlights: Picnic benches beside the pond welcome a quiet meal, and the amphitheater hosts regular arts events. It is worth the trip to spend a moment listening to the wind running through the horizon-to-horizon rows of mature white pines in the plantation to the north. Fair warning: The main path along the south of the pond bustles with joggers and dog walkers at peak hours. If the goal of getting off campus is a moment of peace and quiet, head to the north side. Princeton Battlefield State Park Princeton Battlefield State Park One mile west of the Graduate College, this 100-acre park preserves several of the fields where General George Washington surprised British troops on Jan. 3, 1777, as well as the graves of 21 British and 15 American soldiers. Highlights: Plaques at the park entrance, the Mercer Oak, the Ionic Colonnade and the memorial stone patio north of the colonnade explain the history of the park and invite reflection. The Clarke House Museum exhibits period artifacts. Fair warning: Since the grounds are maintained much as they were at the time of the battle, there are few trees. Pack sunscreen. Institute Woods Institute Woods Nearly 600 acres of deciduous forest can be found one mile south of the Graduate College, on lands preserved and maintained by the Institute for Advanced Study. Highlights: The substantial size of the park makes it a popular waypoint for migratory birds and introspective walkers, both of which enjoy the quiet woods far from roads. Walkers steadying themselves while crossing the suspended "swinging bridge" on the River's Edge trail make for a popular photo opportunity. Fair warning: While trails are well maintained, there are few directional markers. Bring a trail map (.pdf). Watch for ticks and mosquitoes, and be prepared for a bit of mud after heavy rains. Marquand Park Marquand Park Two-thirds of a mile west of the Graduate College, Marquand Park's 17 acres are tailored toward picnickers. Tables, benches, playgrounds and a baseball field are surrounded by an arboretum containing more than 200 specimen trees and shrubs from around the world. Highlights: The arboretum includes exotic trees rarely seen in New Jersey, including a threadleaf Japanese maple and a dawn redwood. Fair warning: The playground is popular with community children, so the park can be a busy place on warm days. Charles H. Rogers Wildlife Refuge Charles H. Rogers Wildlife Refuge Two-thirds of a mile southwest of the Lawrence Apartments, a 39-acre section of marshland serves as host for New Jersey native flora and fauna. The refuge is most well-known as a sanctuary for birds: a checklist at the entrance logs the 190 different bird species that have been observed nesting in the marsh or stopping over during seasonal migrations. Highlights: Observation platforms for birdwatchers along West Drive overlook the marsh. If possible, bring along binoculars and a bird guidebook. Fair warning: Expect the marsh to flood during heavy rains. Space might be limited on the observation platforms at peak hours during migration seasons. Delaware and Raritan Canal State Park Delaware and Raritan Canal State Park Running along the south edge of Lake Carnegie, the canal served for much of the 1800s as a commercial shipping route for coal and other goods moving between Pennsylvania and New York. Towpaths on either side of the canal allowed teams of mules to tow unpowered barges, before the rise of steam-powered shipping in the 1840s. Of the 70 miles that comprise the park, 6.33 miles lie in Princeton, and welcome walkers, bikers and canoeists. Highlights: Many road crossings and landmarks are well-marked with informational signs telling the history of the park. Canoes and kayaks can be rented at the Alexander Road access point, and Turning Basin Park, on the north side of the canal at Alexander Road, provides picnic tables. Fair warning: The canal towpath crosses many bustling roads. While pedestrians have the right of way in Princeton, it is always prudent to slow down at these junctures — the through traffic may not expect to see joggers and bikers emerge from the woods at full speed. Related Stories Princeton's Lake Carnegie: A place for nature, a scene for activity Read more Course explores the Millstone River, Princeton’s backyard wilderness Read more Princeton issues planning framework to guide campus development Read more On 50th anniversary of Earth Day, students connect with natural world in time of pandemic Read more Evergreen beauty of campus gardens thrives year round Read more University considers potential sites for residential college, engineering, environmental studies Read more PEI internships provide insights into environmental issues, students' futures Read more View All News Contact links Contact Us Accessibility Advanced People Search Media Inquiries Website Feedback Visiting links Plan a Visit Maps & Shuttles Varsity Athletics Giving to Princeton Academic links Library Academic Calendar Student Links Faculty & Staff Links Footer social media Facebook Twitter Instagram Snapchat LinkedIn YouTube Social Media Directory Equal Opportunity and Nondiscrimination at Princeton University: Princeton University believes that commitment to principles of fairness and respect for all is favorable to the free and open exchange of ideas, and the University seeks to reach out as widely as possible in order to attract the ablest individuals as students, faculty, and staff. In applying this policy, the University is committed to nondiscrimination on the basis of personal beliefs or characteristics such as political views, religion, national or ethnic origin, race, color, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity or expression, pregnancy, age, marital or domestic partnership status, veteran status, disability, genetic information and/or other characteristics protected by applicable law in any phase of its education or employment programs or activities. In addition, pursuant to Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 and supporting regulations, Princeton does not discriminate on the basis of sex in the education programs or activities that it operates; this extends to admission and employment. Inquiries about the application of Title IX and its supporting regulations may be directed to the Assistant Secretary for Civil Rights, Office for Civil Rights, U.S. Department of Education or to the University's Sexual Misconduct/Title IX Coordinator. See Princeton’s full Equal Opportunity Policy and Nondiscrimination Statement. Princeton University Princeton, NJ 08544 Operator: (609) 258-3000 © 2022 The Trustees of Princeton University Subfooter links Copyright Infringement Privacy Notice