Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Coronavirus Updates Guidelines Masks on Campus Info For... Vaccine Testing Case Report Communications FAQs Resources HEERF Reporting Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact Higher Education Emergency Relief Fund (HEERF) Disclosures Student Aid Portion CARES Act (HEERF I)CRRSA Act (HEERF II)ARP Act (HEERF III) Institutional Aid Portion Take Action Review Guidelines Daily Self-Checker Testing Center View Cases on Campus Report CARES Act Home Coronavirus Updates HEERF Higher Education Emergency Relief Fund Navigating the challenges created by COVID-19 continues to be incredibly difficult for our campus and community. Throughout the pandemic, the University of Memphis has worked diligently to support our students in their educational pursuits by making available a robust set of education offerings, access to financial support, flexibility and an array of support services. We were fortunate to receive federal fundingwhich allowed the University to provide direct grants to students to assist with other financial support. The CARES Act was passed by Congress to assist students who experienced negative financial outcomes from the conversion to remote delivery classes necessitated by the COVID-19 pandemic in Spring 2020. View Reporting > Coronavirus Response and Relief Supplemental Appropriations (CRRSA) Act (HEERF II) was signed into law by President Trump on 12/27/20. View Reporting > The American Rescue Plan (ARP) Act (HEERF III) was signed into law by President Biden on March 11, 2021. View Reporting > Additional financial relief efforts: $50,000 in COVID-19 Access and Diversity funds to support financially needy students $150,000 grant to close the digital divide (e.g., educational supplies, technology needs, book grants, etc.) Laptop Loaner Program available to each student who expressed need Dr. Rosie Phillips Bingham Student Emergency Fund provided small grants to students in financial need Support to assist students in accessing local, state and national benefits, grants and resources Student workers were retained for the Spring 2020 semester, even though we switched to virtual instruction and adhered to the "safer at home" guidelines Chartwells, the dining services partner for the UofM, donated $29,000 to the UofM Tiger Pantry and $9,500 for meal cards for students facing food insecurities University provided tuition payment plans, extended registration and payment deadlines and refunded late registration and payment fees Retention grants were offered for Spring 2021 Grants were provided to students for Summer 2020 and 2021 as part of an expansion to our 3+3 program Online fees for all classes were reduced and/or refunded Dining funds were prorated to account for decreases in the amount of time students would be on campus CARES Act and CRRSA funds were distributed to provide additional financial resources to support students who met established criteria Campus Communications Related to Financial Relief CRRSA Act Financial Funds Available February 16, 2021 - Earlier today, the University of Memphis was notified that funding will be available shortly. ... CRRSA Act Financial Resources February 11, 2021 - As we shared with you earlier, the recent Coronavirus Response and Relief Supplemental Appropriations Act (CRRSA) provides additional financial resources to support students who meet established criteria. ... Student Funds Available under the Stimulus Package January 15, 2021 - As we shared with you earlier, financial support will be made available to actively enrolled students under the Coronavirus Response and Relief Supplemental Appropriations Act (CRRSAA). ... Financial Support for Students January 9, 2021 - Navigating the challenges created by COVID-19 continues to be incredibly difficult for our campus and community. ... Refunding of Payment Plan Fees November 23, 2020 - The University recognizes that our students and their families continue to face challenges created by COVID-19. ... Initiatives to Support Students During COVID-19 August 24, 2020 - The past six months have been some of the most difficult in our history, with the impact of COVID-19 leaving no corner of our community untouched. ... Additional Financial Actions to Support Students August 12, 2020 - As we shared earlier this week, the University recognizes the financial challenges created by COVID-19. ... Continued Financial Support for Students August 10, 2020 - We recognize the challenges presented by COVID-19 on all fronts, including finances. ... Fall Initiatives June 23, 2020 - Our commitment to access and affordability is a priority for the University of Memphis. ... Summer 2020 Installment Payment Plan May 27, 2020 - Given the unique challenges presented by COVID-19 on our students, the University is actively looking a ways to support students. ... Grants to Juniors and Seniors April 17, 2020 - In our continued efforts to support our upper class student populations, we are offering a $500 grant to assist juniors and seniors with their costs when enrolled for two classes in the summer 2020 semester. ... Academic Financial Support for Summer 2020 April 16, 2020 - In an effort to continue to support our students’ progression to degree completion during these difficult times, the UofM is offering direct financial support to students for Summer 2020: ... Housing, Dining and Parking Refunds March 27, 2020 - Both the U.S. Senate and House of Representatives have passed federal relief legislation, and it is moving forward to President Trump for signature. ... Federal Relief Package Update March 25, 2020 - As you are likely aware, a federal relief package is expected to pass the U.S. House and Senate in the next few days. ... Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 1/14/22 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.