Skip navigation About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life Information for Current Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors menu Brown University About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life Information for Current Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Search Global Global Brown Research & Curriculum Global Engagement International Programs Programs & Initiatives Community & Support Office of International Programs OIP Events and Activities Below are OIP-sponsored programs and events that typically occur each semester. For the specific dates and times of upcoming programs and events, please check the Brown Events Calendar. Study Abroad 101 Info Sessions Interested in studying abroad but not sure where to start? Attend a Study Abroad 101 Information Session to learn more about opportunities! Do you have general questions about study abroad but are not able to attend a Study Abroad 101 Info Session? Meet with one of our Peer Advisors for assistance. Global Independent Study (GLISP) Information Sessions/Proposal Workshops Considering doing a GLISP during your semester abroad but not sure where to start? Need help finishing your GLISP proposal? Meet with our GLISP Peer Advisor to learn more about the GLISP proposal process, review proposal requirements, and fine tune your proposal before the submission deadline! International Education Week (IEW) International Education Week (IEW) is an opportunity to celebrate the benefits of international education and exchange worldwide. This joint initiative of the U.S. Department of State and the U.S. Department of Education is part of their efforts to promote programs that prepare Americans for a global environment and attract future leaders from abroad to study, learn, and exchange experiences. See the 2021 OIP IEW schedule of events. Study Abroad & Me Series Study Abroad & Me is a series of conversations designed to address a theme of "Engaging our Differences, Exploring the World." Please join us for one or more of these discussions, which usually take place in March. Topics may include Spirituality, LGBTQ+ Community, Accessibility, Students of Color, RUE/Veterans, First Gen/Financing, and Women studying abroad. Study Abroad Program-Specific Information Sessions Prospective students can attend program-specific information sessions to learn more about semester/year Brown/CASA and Approved programs offered througout the world. Study Abroad Financial Aid and Scholarship Information Sessions Prospective students can attend information sessions about the Brown financial aid process for study abroad, and study abroad scholarship opportunities. Home Study Abroad COVID-19 Updates Programs Consortium for Advanced Studies Abroad (CASA) Independent Study and Undergraduate Research Application Deadlines Meet with an Advisor Study Abroad Peer Advisors Faculty Advisors for Study Abroad FinancIal Information Getting Started Health & Safety Resources for Abroad Returning to Brown For Families Faculty & Staff OIP Events & Activities Study Abroad Fair Request a Workshop or Co-Sponsor an Event International Education Week 2021 January 2021 Quiet Period Study Abroad-Palooza! About the OIP Print this Page Share this Page Office of International Programs Brown University Box 1973 Page-Robinson Hall 420 Providence, RI 02912 Phone 401-863-3555 Fax 401-863-3311 [email protected] For Global Travelers Controller's Office Travel Policies and Procedures International Health Insurance Register with Brown's International SOS Service Tips While Abroad - The Take It With You Guide Brown Travel Portal IT Security Travel Tips International Research Administration Travel Clinic For Global Visitors Office of International Student & Scholar Services (OISSS) International Health Insurance Brown Travel Portal International Student Resources Visiting Undergraduate Students Visiting Research Fellows and Non-Degree Graduate Students Study Abroad Office of International Programs - Undergraduate Study Abroad Undergraduate Teaching and Research Awards Graduate School Partnerships and Exchanges Grant Opportunities Our grant database offers a wide range of funding opportunities for undergraduate and graduate students, faculty, and researcher in different fields of work. Search Grants Social Media Twitter Facebook LinkedIn Top Destinations Graduate School Alpert Medical School School of Public Health School of Engineering Resources A to Z Index Career Opportunities Make a Gift Brown University Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-1000 Map & Directions Social Media Dashboard Contact Us Giving to Brown