In This Issue Deep Dive UCF researchers are exploring our oceans to better understand dangerous diseases found below — and possible cures. What Is White Privilege? It’s not about you as an individual, even if you benefit from it. But recognizing and challenging structural “whiteness” is the key to equity — and excellence. Movement Matters Go Baby Go! and St. Joseph’s Children’s Hospital are partnering to provide low-cost mobility solutions for children with disabilities. Custom Solar Sculpture Built by UCF Students UCF art and engineering students collaborated to create a new solar-powered sculpture at Exploria Stadium that infuses energy back into the city’s power grid. Course Correction UCF researchers are working to make driving safer, smarter and more sustainable for everyone on the road. Blastoff from the Bounce House How a photograph of a rocket launch captured from UCF’s football stadium landed among Time magazine’s top 100 photos of 2020. How to Ace the Test of Time Learn what is essential to graceful aging — no matter how old you are. To Protect and Serve How a UCF graduate and former police officer is advocating for public service reform. Pandemic Pivot? Now may be the time to change careers. Why I Fight for Hostages A UCF grad shares how her father’s kidnapping drives her to help others. Higher Potential How one UCF alumna is advocating for a more inclusive education system. Lighting the Way Professor Peter Delfyett’s latest honor recognizes his influential career and opens doors for the STEM community at UCF. Knights Do That Here are just a few ways faculty, students and alumni are making a positive impact on our community, our nation and the world. The Pope’s Meteor Man As curator of the Vatican’s meteorite collection, Robert Macke ’10PhD combines science and faith to explore age-old questions of how and why we are here. Body Check This machine can scan your body in under five minutes and provide your precise body fat percentage. Here’s how UCF students and researchers are using it to help everyone from athletes to the elderly. Close Back Forward Pegasus The Magazine of the University of Central Florida In This Issue Archives How to Ace the Test of Time The Pope’s Meteor Man Higher Potential More in this Issue Movement Matters Pandemic Pivot? Lighting the Way Body Check Blastoff from the Bounce House Deep Dive Custom Solar Sculpture Built by UCF Students What Is White Privilege? To Protect and Serve Course Correction Why I Fight for Hostages Knights Do That Recent Issues of Pegasus Magazine View Archives » Follow UCF on Facebook Follow UCF on Twitter Follow UCF on YouTube Pegasus Magazine Suggest a Story Tell Us What You Think Update Your Address © University of Central Florida 4000 Central Florida Blvd. Orlando, FL 32816