Women and Gender Resource Center - University of Houston Skip to main content Restrict my search to Women and Gender Resource Center Submit Close Student Affairs and Enrollment Services Login to AccessUH Give to UH Search Women and Gender Resource Center Home About Our Staff Office Hours Programs & Events Upcoming Programs & Events Empower Conference Signature Programs Presentations & Workshops THE HIVE Resources Lactation Room Information Awards and Scholarships Information and Supplies Professional Wear Resources Gender Equity News Archive Sexual Misconduct Support Services Title IX Sexual Misconduct COMPASS It Counts Campaign Referral Form WGRC CORE Team Donations/Giving It's Everyone's Place Welcome Back, Coogs! The Women and Gender Resource Center office space is open on campus, and we can't wait to see you! Stop by at Student Center North, Suite 201. Masks are encouraged in our office. As always, our entire WGRC team is here to support you, and we are committed to making our programs and services accessible to students, faculty, and staff regardless of physical location. In the Fall we will offer programs both virtually and in person. Stay tuned for calendar updates on our Events page. Upcoming Events Jun 24 12:00 pm Sista Circle: Black Grads Jul 22 12:00 pm Sista Circle: Black Grads Gender Equity News News Archive Resources SCOTUS Declines Hearing Trans Bathroom Case The U.S. Supreme Court declined to hear Gavin Grimm's case on the rights of K-12 trans students to access bathrooms that match their gender. This order means that a lower court's decision stands, which ruled in favor of Grimm, finding his school board violated his constitutional rights. 'LFG' Documentary Released on U.S. Women's Soccer Team's Fight For Pay Equality In June, HBO Max released "LFG," a documentary about the 2019 U.S. Women's National Soccer Team's lawsuit on gender discrimination and pay inequity. The film follows Megan Rapinoe, Jessica McDonald, and other members on the team on their journey fighting for equity. Ed Dept. Reinstates Trans Protections Under Title IX The Department of Education released a Notice of Interpretation stating that trans and gay students are protected under Title IX. The notice cited the Supreme Court's 2020 Bostock v. Clayton County decision which interpreted Title IX to cover gender identity and sexual orientation. Harris and Pelosi Make History Standing Behind a President During a Formal Address to Congress For the first time, the president is delivering his speech while standing in front of two women — Vice President Kamala Harris and Speaker Nancy Pelosi of California. Interior Secretary Creates New Unit to Investigate 4,200 Cases of Missing Native Americans Interior Secretary Deb Haaland has created a unit to investigate 4,200 missing person and murder cases of Native Americans. This is a great step in holding people accountable for their actions against Native Americans. The Leader of Planned Parenthood Aims to Acknowledge the Organization's Roots "We must reckon with Margaret Sanger’s association with white supremacist groups and eugenics," says Alex McGill Johnson, chief executive of the Planned Parenthood Federation of America. Chloe Zhao Become First Woman of Color to Win Best Director Oscar At the 93rd Academy Awards, director Chloe Zhao became the first woman of color to win for Best Director. She is one of only seven women to ever be nominated for this award and the second woman to win. German Gymnasts Confront Sexualization In Sports German gymnasts have begun competing in full-body suits rather than leotards. The German federation (DTB) supported its athletes in taking a stand against "sexualization in gymnastics" especially to prevent sexual abuse. Houston's First Pregnant City Council Member: Abbie Kamin Abbie Kamin is this first person to be pregnant while serving on Houston's City Council. Now she's using her power to enact change. The 19th spoke with Kamin over several months as she tried to figure out her role in shaping city policies on pregnancy and gender equality. The Gender Agenda Addresses Workplace Bias The Gender Agenda research team submitted the same portfolio to creative directors twice, once under the names "Liam and Harry" and once as "Emma and Hannah." Would the two submissions receive the same feedback, or will sexism play a part? 'Promising Young Woman' Explores Consent Emerald Fennell's award-winning film "Promising Young Woman" follows the story of Cassie, a woman determined to end the behavior of predatory men. Join us for a film screening on April 21 and a film discussion with UH Wellness on April 22. President Biden Releases Statement on Paycheck Fairness Act On April 15, the White House released President Biden's statement on the Paycheck Fairness Act after the House of Representatives passed the bill. The President called it an "economic" and "moral imperative." Our Staff Vacant Director Toria Jones (she/her) Manager, Sexual Misconduct Support Services tjjones6@uh.edu Vacant (apply here!) Manager, Gender Equity Programs Cheyenne Peer (she/her) Office Coordinator, WGRC & LGBTQ Resource Center cpeer@central.uh.edu Follow Us on Social Media Twitter Facebook Instagram Powered by Curator.io Contact Information wgrc@uh.edu (P) 832-842-9472 (F) 713-743-5097 Comments & Suggestions Address Women and Gender Resource Center 4465 University Dr. Rm. N201 Houston, TX 77204-4014 Located in room N201 of the Student Center North building Office Hours Monday through Friday 9 am to 5 pm University of Houston Houston, Texas 77204 (713) 743-2255 A–Z Index Academic Calendar Campus Carry Policy Campus Map Career Opportunities Directory Emergency Information Get Help Human Resources Library Mental Health Resources Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Office of the President Parking Report Copyright Infringement Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness Open Records/Public Information Act Texas Veterans Portal Tuition & Fees UH System Virtual Tour ©2022 University of Houston. All rights reserved. Report a problem with this page Texas.gov Texas Homeland Security TRAIL Fraud Reporting Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Linking Notice Privacy Notice Open Records/Public Information Act Institutional Résumé Required Reports Electronic & Information Resources Accessibility Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness University Policies