Menu Home Contact Us The Council Postdoctoral Council Charter Council Members Committees Minutes Past BPC Members Postdoc Resources New Postdocs Travel Award Foreign Postdocs Individual Dev. Plan (IDP) National Postdoc Council Listserv Free Editing Service (Postdoc Editors Association) Health Insurance Women in Science Family Life Practical Skills Non-Academic Careers Career Paths Additional Readings Symposium Close mobile menu Close Menu Home Contact Us The Council Postdoctoral Council Charter Council Members Committees Minutes Past BPC Members Postdoc Resources New Postdocs Travel Award Foreign Postdocs Individual Dev. Plan (IDP) National Postdoc Council Listserv Free Editing Service (Postdoc Editors Association) Health Insurance Women in Science Family Life Practical Skills Non-Academic Careers Career Paths Additional Readings Symposium Biomedical Postdoctoral Council (BPC) The University of Pennsylvania Biomedical Postdoctoral Council (BPC) is a volunteer organization run by and for postdoctoral scholars. The BPC was founded in 2000, and we were one of the first postdoctoral associations in the USA. We represent over 1,200 biomedical postdoctoral appointees from the Perelman School of Medicine, School of Veterinary Medicine, School of Dental Medicine, School of Nursing, The Department of Biology at the School of Arts & Sciences, The Children's Hospital of Philadelphia, Monell Chemical Senses Center, Swarthmore College and The Wistar Institute. We also welcome the involvement of postdocs from the School of Arts & Sciences and School of Engineering and Applied Science. The BPC seeks to foster a sense of community, provide resources for career and personal development, and provide a framework for representation on campus and in the local community for postdoctoral scholars. We also work closely with the office of Biomedical Postdoctoral Programs (BPP), which is responsible for providing postdoctoral training at Penn. What we do Annual Biomedical Postdoctoral Research Symposium Career enhancement and training - seminars and workshops in addition to those offered by BPP Community service - blood drives and volunteering Co-sponsored events with the Biomedical Graduate Student Association Diversity – advocacy, information and resources for postdoc inclusion Environmental action – advocacy and awareness Foreign nationals - advocacy, information and welcome sessions Fundraising - biannual vendor presentations Postdoc Editors Association – free manuscript and thesis editing service Representation at National Postdoctoral Association meetings Representation on the Biomedical Postdoctoral Advisory Committee Seminars on a wide range of topics Social and sporting events Stay up-to-date Please see individual committee pages for events and further information. Like and follow us on Facebook, Instagram and Twitter for regular updates. See our regular BPC emails sent via the BPP office. Read BPP Weekly Newsletter for a great way to stay up-to-date with the latest postdoc news. Join the Council! New, enthusiastic volunteers are always welcome to serve as council members, committee members, or to help organize events. As a council member, you have the opportunity to form and change postdoctoral policies, gain career-enhancing skills and build an invaluable network of peers. The BPC holds meetings at 5pm on the first working Monday of every month. Currently, meetings are held virtually via Zoom, which all postdocs are welcome to join. Latest News Tweets by UPennBPC More News Events More Events Contact Us Biomedical Postdoctoral Council Perelman School of Medicine at the University of Pennsylvania 3620 Hamilton Walk Philadelphia, PA 19104 Email Us Directions Follow Us  Twitter  Facebook Links of Interest University of Pennsylvania Perelman School of Medicine Biomedical Postdoctoral Program (BPP) © The Trustees of the University of Pennsylvania | Site best viewed in a supported browser. | Report Accessibility Issues and Get Help | Privacy Policy | Site Design: DART Web Team. | Sitemap