Skip to main content Toggle subitems Main navigation Meet Princeton Toggle sub-items In Service of Humanity Facts & Figures History Honors & Awards Contact Us Visit Us Our Faculty Our Students Our Alumni Our Staff Our Leadership Academic Freedom and Free Expression Academics Toggle sub-items Studying at Princeton Library Areas of Study Humanities Social Sciences Engineering Natural Sciences Advising Academic Calendar Course Tools Learning Abroad Career Development Continuing Education Innovative Learning Research Toggle sub-items Engineering & Applied Science Humanities Natural Sciences Social Sciences Interdisciplinary Approach Dean for Research Office External Partnerships Facilities & Labs One Community Toggle sub-items Lifelong Connections Student Life Arts & Culture Athletics Living in Princeton, N.J. Housing & Dining Activities & Organizations Cultural & Affinity Groups Health & Wellness Religious Life Serving the Public Good Families Admission & Aid Toggle sub-items Affordable for All About Financial Aid Current Undergraduate Financial Aid Undergraduate Admission Graduate Admission For International Students Utility menu News Events Work at Princeton Services & Resources Work-Life Balance Links for Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Giving Search Sites & People × Share on Facebook Share on Twitter Share on LinkedIn Email Print Princeton Profiles: Camden Olson, training service dogs to change lives by Danielle Alio, Office of Communications March 27, 2017, noon Play video: Play Video: Princeton Profiles: Camden Olson, training service dogs to change lives; Video embed #1 Sophomore Camden Olson's desire to have a career training service dogs has led her to major in ecology and evolutionary biology, and she will train and study service animals for her senior thesis. (Video by Danielle Alio, Office of Communications) Camden Olson didn't have a pet dog growing up, but when she was 7 years old, she realized her passion for training service dogs. The sophomore ecology and evolutionary biology major wants to dedicate her career to helping those with disabilities by raising and training service dogs. "My career path is that I want to work with service dogs, to be able to communicate with an animal and to teach that animal to literally save someone's life on a regular basis," said Olson, who is also receiving a certificate in cognitive science. "When I work with a dog, I just feel like I have a purpose." Before starting her first year at Princeton, Olson took a gap year in Maine where she raised her first guide dog, Derby. "I hadn't quite had the time yet and the experience to fully devote to training and what I wanted to do in terms of training service dogs, and so my gap year was my opportunity to be able to do that," Olson said. Since Olson's gap year, Derby has been placed in California with someone in need of a guide dog. "Working with a dog, you know that dog is going to do so much good for someone else," Olson said. "Being able to ... have that impact on other people is incredible." In addition to her academics and extracurricular activities on campus, Olson assists local residents who are fostering service dogs in training. Olson is responsible for helping socialize the young dogs and teaching basic obedience commands. Two of the dogs she is working with are Labrador retrievers, Danny and Snoopy. Olson plans to raise and train another service dog starting this summer, using this next experience as groundwork for her senior thesis. Olson will train the animal as a diabetic alert dog that can alert diabetic owners in advance of low or high blood sugar events before they become dangerous. In addition, she plans to bring the dog into middle school classrooms to research its effect on student concentration and behavior in class. "What I love is the training as much as I love the dogs, and you work together with a dog to succeed as a team," Olson said. "I am just so passionate about it — the effect that the dogs have on people, the feeling that I get when training — and just all of it is just so incredible to me that it's really hard to put into words. It really leaves me speechless." Related Stories Princeton seniors Olson, Salama awarded ReachOut fellowships for public service Read more Princeton Profiles: Camden Olson, training service dogs to change lives Read more Meet Coach, the University's first full-time therapy dog (and her human 'forever handler') Read more Protecting corn, saving elephants: Princeton senior Reynolds pursues conservation through conflict resolution Read more Students are transformed by -- and transform -- Princeton Read more Eisgruber emphasizes civil virtues at Commencement Read more What I think: Yiyun Li Read more View All News Contact links Contact Us Accessibility Advanced People Search Media Inquiries Website Feedback Visiting links Plan a Visit Maps & Shuttles Varsity Athletics Giving to Princeton Academic links Library Academic Calendar Student Links Faculty & Staff Links Footer social media Facebook Twitter Instagram Snapchat LinkedIn YouTube Social Media Directory Equal Opportunity and Nondiscrimination at Princeton University: Princeton University believes that commitment to principles of fairness and respect for all is favorable to the free and open exchange of ideas, and the University seeks to reach out as widely as possible in order to attract the ablest individuals as students, faculty, and staff. In applying this policy, the University is committed to nondiscrimination on the basis of personal beliefs or characteristics such as political views, religion, national or ethnic origin, race, color, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity or expression, pregnancy, age, marital or domestic partnership status, veteran status, disability, genetic information and/or other characteristics protected by applicable law in any phase of its education or employment programs or activities. In addition, pursuant to Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 and supporting regulations, Princeton does not discriminate on the basis of sex in the education programs or activities that it operates; this extends to admission and employment. Inquiries about the application of Title IX and its supporting regulations may be directed to the Assistant Secretary for Civil Rights, Office for Civil Rights, U.S. Department of Education or to the University's Sexual Misconduct/Title IX Coordinator. See Princeton’s full Equal Opportunity Policy and Nondiscrimination Statement. Princeton University Princeton, NJ 08544 Operator: (609) 258-3000 © 2022 The Trustees of Princeton University Subfooter links Copyright Infringement Privacy Notice