Skip to main content Skip to main content my.SMU News & Events Library Master Calendar Skip to main content Apply Apply Give Give Contact Us Contact Us Follow Us Follow Us Facebook Follow Us Google+ Follow Us Twitter Follow Us LinkedIn Follow Us Tumblr Follow Us YouTube Follow Us Instagram Follow Us Social Stream Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. Navigate Search Social SMU Facebook SMU Google Plus SMU Twitter SMU LinkedIn SMU Tumblr SMU YouTube SMU Instagram Skip to main content Law About About Dean's Welcome Diversity and Inclusion Fast Facts Living & Studying in Dallas Why SMU Dedman Law? Academics Academics Academic Advising Academic Calendar Registrar's Office Academic Success Program (ASP) Bar Exam Resources Course Schedules and Registration Information Degree Programs Experiential Learning Externship Programs Forms Law Journals Planning Your Academic Program Study Abroad in Oxford Admissions Admissions Costs and Financial Aid FAQs J.D. Programs Graduate Programs How to Apply Meet Our Students Visiting SMU Virtual Tour of SMU Contact Admissions Alumni & Giving Alumni & Giving 2022 Alumni Happy Hours 2022 Reunion Weekend Alumni Chapters Career Services Class Notes Community Fellows Contact Alumni Relations Distinguished Alumni Awards Emerging Leader Board Executive Board Get Involved Law Firm Challenge Publications Update Alumni Information Career Services Career Services Students Employers Alumni Employment Statistics Career Services Team Contact Office of Career Services Reciprocity Centers & Initiatives Centers & Initiatives Jennifer M. Collins Women's Leadership Initiative Judge Elmo B. Hunter Legal Center For Victims of Crimes Against Women Robert B. Rowling Center for Business Law & Leadership Tsai Center for Law, Science and Innovation W. W. Caruth, Jr. Institute for Children's Rights Deason Criminal Justice Reform Center Clinics Clinics W.W. Caruth, Jr. Child Advocacy Clinic Civil/Consumer Clinic COVID-19 Legal Helpline Criminal Clinic Family Immigration Detention Clinic Federal Tax Clinic First Amendment Clinic Judge Elmo B. Hunter Legal Center for Victims of Crimes Against Women Innocence Clinic Patent Law Clinic Small Business and Trademark Clinic VanSickle Family Law Clinic Faculty Faculty Conferences, Symposia & Lecture Series Faculty Expertise Faculty in the News Faculty Profiles Research Public Service Public Service Completing Your Public Service Graduation Requirement Pre-Approved Placements Forms FAQs Planning a Public Service Career Internships & Fellowships Public Advocate Day Contact Public Service Program Staff Volunteer Income Tax Assistance (VITA) - Overview for law students only Students Students Office of Student Affairs Office of Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Financial Frequently Used Resources Graduation Information Inns of Court Program Mustang Exchange Scholarships and Writing Competitions Student Code of Professional Responsibility Student Organizations ☰ Academics Academic Resources Forms Forms DocuSign Forms DocuSign is a secure, online platform for routing documents and obtaining authenticated online signatures. For more information on DocuSign, please visit https://www.smu.edu/oit/services/docusign Clinic Deputy (Chief Counsel) Form: Deputies help supervise clinic students preparing client representation, and provide assistance in areas such as fact investigations and analysis, legal research and writing, litigation training, and court appearances. Deputies are selected by the clinic instructors; students may not enroll before being selected. Submit this form to register for Clinic Deputy. Directed Research Form: A two (2) hour directed research paper with a full-time law faculty member will satisfy your General Writing requirement. You may register for a directed research using this form. You will need to include the name of the profession under whom you will undertake the directed research and the subject of the project. Please visit with the professor and obtain permission before submitting this form. Government and Public Interest Externship Registration Permission Form: Submit this form after you have been chosen for an externship placement in the Government and Public Interest Externship Program. You must work 60 hours at the field placement for each credit hour for a total of no fewer than 120 hours for 2 credits or 180 hours for 3 credits. Law Review Form: Students may register for a maximum of five (5) hours of ungraded academic credit for law review service. In the first year of law review, a student may register for a maximum of three (3) hours for work as a staff editor. Completing the law review writing requirements for credit (at least two hours) will fulfill the General Writing requirement. Students may register for the remaining two (2) hours in their second year for service on the law review board. Mock Trial/Moot Court/Board of Advocates Form: Students who participate as members of mock trial and moot court teams representing SMU Dedman School of Law may be eligible to receive one (1) credit for each competition, up to a maximum of two (2) credit hours for each type of competition (i.e., mock trial or moot court). [Note that under the ABA rules, students must work for at least 45 hours on the competition in order to earn an hour of credit.] These credits, however, DO NOT count toward the Experiential Learning requirement. Students may request up to a total of four (4) hours ungraded academic credit for mock trial and moot court competitions. Students are allowed only one (1) hour total of ungraded academic credit for two semesters of BOA Executive Board service. **Note: Students may not apply more than six (6) hours of upper-class elective courses taken on an ungraded (i.e., credit/no-credit) basis toward the 87 hours required for graduation. This limit includes law review hours, moot court hours, mock trial hours, BOA executive board service, and Jackson Walker Moot Court Competition hours. But this six- hour restriction does not include any hours obtained from externships (in other words, you can have up to six (6) ungraded hours not counting externships). Since clinics and simulation courses are graded, they also are not included in the six-hour maximum. Petition to Study Away: The school will consider student applications to study abroad at internationally-recognized law programs. Each student's application will be considered on a case-by-case basis and must meet all the requirements of the ABA criteria, with particular emphasis on the need for the student's proposed course of study abroad to further his or her legitimate academic Students may earn up to eight (8) credit hours at other ABA-approved study abroad programs so long as the courses are approved by the Assistant Dean for Student Affairs prior to the start of the term. Request to Amend Law School Application or File: If you determine your law school application is inaccurate or incomplete, you may request the law school amend your application by completing this form. Similarly, you have an on-going obligation to the law school to report any incidents relevant to the character and fitness process that occur after you submit your law school application. Students who wish to amend their law school record may do so by completing this form. Petition to Take Graduate Level Courses: Graduate level courses that are offered in other graduate or professional schools of SMU and are relevant to the student's program may be taken with approval of the Assistant Dean for Student Affairs, who shall also determine Dedman School of Law credit equivalents to be awarded for such study. No more than six (6) hours may be awarded toward Dedman School of Law hours required for graduation. If approved, you must present a copy of the form to the department in which you wish to take the class to obtain their permission as well. That department, or the University Registrar’s Office, will register you for the course during their add/drop period. You will not be able to add the class to your schedule yourself, nor will the Law School Registrar’s Office. Request to Withdraw from Course (2L, 3L and LL.M.): Students have until noon of the last day of instruction to drop a class and receive a grade of "W." After the deadline, a student may not drop a class. Note: Schedule changes are not complete for official University record purposes unless finalized in the University Registrar's Office. Upper-class and LL.M. students must obtain the approval of the professor teaching the course from which they are withdrawing. This form will be routed directly to your professor for approval and then to the Registrar's Office for processing. A grade of “W” will appear on your transcript after the withdrawal has been processed. Request to Withdraw from Course (1L): Students have until noon of the last day of instruction to drop a class and receive a grade of "W." After the deadline, a student may not drop a class. Note: Schedule changes are not complete for official University record purposes unless finalized in the University Registrar's Office. First-year students must receive permission from the Assistant Dean for Student Affairs and the professor teaching the course from which they are withdrawing. This form will be routed directly to Dean Yeager and your professor for approval and then to the Registrar's Office for processing. A grade of “W” will appear on your transcript after the withdrawal has been processed. Registration Form for Jackson Walker Moot Court Board: A student who works with the Jackson Walker Moot Court competition for two (2) years is eligible for one (1) hour of ungraded academic credit. During the two-year period, students should submit this form. Once approved, one (1) hour of Jackson Walker Moot Court Board (JWMCB) will added to the student's enrollment in my.SMU. Note: The grade will appear as an incomplete (a grade of “I”) until the student completes the two-year commitment. At that time, the student should submit the Completion form and the Registrar will update the incomplete to a grade of “P” (pass). Completion Form for Jackson Walker Moot Court Board: Students who have completed their two-year commitment for JWMCB should submit this form to receive a grade of "P" (pass). Academic Resources Catalog Contact the Office of Academic Resources/Registrar Course Schedules and Registration Information Degree Requirements Exam Information & Schedules Forms Grading Criteria for J.D. Students Graduation Requirements Re-entry and Readmission Guidelines Seating Charts Transcript Requests Apply Request info Library Business Office Get Help Now News Media Emergency / Safety Admissions Office / FAQs Department Directory Consumer Information (ABA Required Disclosures) Contact Us Maps and Directions Legal Disclosures © SMU Dedman School of Law 3315 Daniel Avenue, Dallas, TX 75205 facebook google twitter linkedin tumblr youtube instagram