Skip to Content Area Visitors Students K–12 Members Contact Us Get eNews Join Us Birds, Cornell Lab of Ornithology About Mission & Values Our Work People Your Impact Visit Us Jobs News Room Annual Report Get Involved Find Your Project eBird Citizen Science Lifelong Learning 10 Ways to Help Birds Donate Support Our Cause Monthly Giving Join All About Birds Bird Guide Birds of the World Merlin Bird ID App eBird Explore Macaulay Library Bird Academy Bird Cams Living Bird FAQs Search Skip to Content Visit Us Events Virtual Experiences Group Visits Visitor Center FAQ What to Do Adelson Library Hours: 10 a.m. –4 p.m. Phone: 607-254-2165 Email: adelson_lib@cornell.edu Search the entire Cornell University Library catalog or narrow your search to Adelson Library holdings. As a branch of the Cornell University Library system, Adelson Library contains a rich array of historical and contemporary ornithological books, monographs and journals. Housed within the Cornell Lab of Ornithology’s Visitor Center, the library serves staff, faculty, students, and the general public. Visitors Visitors may browse the bookshelves, read or study at tables and comfortable chairs, work at public computer stations or access guest Wi-Fi, all while enjoying a commanding view of Sapsucker Woods through the library’s large windows. Here’s more information for visitors to Cornell libraries, including Adelson. Borrowing Privileges Any person may visit the Adelson Library and use materials, databases and resources onsite. Staff, faculty, and students may borrow materials using their Cornell ID, and may have materials delivered to and from other university libraries. New York state residents, SUNY affiliates, and CALS or CHE alumni can obtain a borrowing privilege card from Adelson Library by filling out the online application form. This card can be used to borrow materials from, and request deliveries between, Mann, ILR, Vet, and Adelson Libraries. Other visitors can contact Cornell’s Library Public Services Office (116 Olin Library, 607-255-5069) for details about borrowing privileges. Library Programs Visit us for Family Story Time, monthly from September through May. See our Events page for details. Donating Books While Adelson Library does gratefully accept some donated materials, we are not able to accept every book that is offered to us. Due to limited shelf space, we cannot accept duplicate copies or items that are not appropriate for our collection. Please check with Library staff to see if your book meets our requirements. Staff Leo SackPublic Programs Assistant Don't miss a thing! Join our email list About Mission Programs People Administrative Board Your Impact Visit Us Careers Corporate Sponsors News Room Citizen Science eBird Project Feederwatch Celebrate Urban Birds NestWatch Great Backyard Bird Count Lifelong Learning Bird Academy K–12 Education Young Birders Network Study at Cornell Events Bird Info & Tools All About Birds Merlin Bird ID App eBird Explore Macaulay Library FAQs Publications Living Bird Magazine Birds of the World State of the Birds Scientific Publications Clements Checklist Books for All Ages Cornell Lab Annual Report 2021 Quick Finders Members Visitors Citizen-Science Participants K–12 Educators Students Postdoctoral Program Shop for Our Cause Donate Support Our Cause Monthly Giving Join Golden-wing Society Chairman’s Council Planned Giving Contact Us Land Acknowledgment Web Accessibility Assistance Privacy Policy Terms of use © 2022 Cornell University Cancel × Search this website Bird ID help, Bird Guide All About Birds Find birds near you eBird Quick Links Visit Us Staff Directory Members Students Close this module Close this module Experience the Joy of Birdwatching online course for yourself, and we'll give you one free to send to a friend! Just purchase the course for yourself, then look for an email from us with instructions to redeem your free gift course. Learn More