Skip to Main Content apply now ☰ Students Parents Alumni People WyoWeb Virtual Tour Give Events A-Z Directory Admissions UW Admissions First Year Transfer International Graduate Cost of Attendance Financial Aid Scholarships Academics Explore Colleges Academic Affairs Catalog/Schedules Degree Plans Graduate Education Honors College Majors/Degrees UW at a Distance Art Museum UW Libraries Athletics NCAA Athletics Athletics Traditions Cowboy Joe Club Athletics Tickets Campus Recreation Club Sports Rodeo Intramural Sports NOLS Research Research & Econ Dev Wyoming INBRE Neuroscience Ctr Tech Business Ctr Nat Parks Service Research Prod Ctr Supercomputing Water Research WY EPSCoR/IDeA Amer Heritage Ctr UW Life Campus Safety Campus Maps Transit & Parking Res Life & Dining Diversity Student Orgs Cultural Prgms Fine Arts Campus Activities UW Bookstore UW Pride About UW Points of Pride Alumni Association Geological Museum Foundation Cowboy Parents UWyo Mag Brand Center Visit Campus Download Viewbook Give to UW About UW WE ARE AUTHENTIC Rooted in the traditions of the West and surrounded by the rugged Rocky Mountains, the University of Wyoming was founded in 1886 and is a nationally recognized land-grant research institution with expert faculty, top-ranked academics and world-class facilities. WE ARE CONNECTED Take advantage of small class sizes, supportive professors, and the local and state support that Wyoming’s sole four-year university enjoys. And, once a cowboy, always a cowboy means that you’ll gain lifelong connections with alumni regardless of where your journey takes you. WE ARE GLOBAL Experience the world as your classroom with the largest study-abroad scholarship endowment of any U.S. four-year public land-grant university. UW students study in nearly 50 countries each year at 400+ domestic and study abroad sites. WE ARE ADVENTUROUS Find your Wyoming in the 30 miles of groomed cross-country ski trails, 300 miles of snowmobiling trails and more than 100 miles of mountain bike trails, plus fishing, rock climbing, 2.9 million acres of national forest and more. Outdoor magazine recognized UW as one of the nation’s top outdoor schools. COLLEGES AND PROGRAMS College of agriculture and natural resources College of Arts and Sciences college of business College of Education College of Engineering and Applied Science College of Health Sciences College of Law Outreach School School of Energy Resources School of Environment and Natural Resources Graduate Education Honors College explore uw Admissions Discover the next steps in your journey to UW today. Admissions specialists are eager to help you along the way. Points of Pride UW Pride showcases our commitment to excellence and draws on a rich heritage of education, exploration and enterprise. Campus Maps & Tours View maps or schedule a tour. UW offers individual visits as well as special events for potential students and their families. UWyo Magazine UW’s flagship publication shares stories from the university’s students, faculty, alumni, donors and friends. Subscribe, or read it online today! CONNECT WITH UW ALUMNI ASSOCIATION UW FOUNDATION COWBOY PARENTS Welcome to Laramie THE GEM CITY OF WYOMING Nestled between mountain ranges at 7,200 feet, this 1860s railroad town is now home to nearly 32,000 residents, a number of respected museums and countless one-of-a-kind shops and restaurants. A dozen vibrant murals, painted by local artists, bring the historic Laramie downtown to life, while the rumble of trains reminds this Western town of its roots. Whether you’re heading to the Laramie River or lakes of the Snowy Range to fish, or utilizing the 2.9 million acres of nearby national forest to hike, bike, camp or ski, epic adventure awaits in all directions. EXPLORE OUR COMMUNITY Visit Laramie Downtown Laramie Farmers Market Laramie Jubilee Days Medicine Bow National Forest Snowy Range Vedauwoo THE GREAT STATE OF WYOMING We're Eager to Help Contact Us UW Office of Admissions Knight Hall 150 Department 3435, 1000 E. University Avenue Laramie, WY 82071 Phone: (307) 766-5160 Toll-Free: (800) 342-5996 E-mail: admissions@uwyo.edu Need a directory? Search the UW directory for faculty, staff and departments. 1000 E. University Ave. Laramie, WY 82071 UW Operators (307) 766-1121 | Contact Us | Download Adobe Reader Accreditation | Virtual Tour | Emergency Preparedness | Employment at UW | Privacy Policy | Harassment & Discrimination | Accessibility