Skip to main content MyUW Calendar Directories Libraries UW Medicine Maps UW News Helpful Links Computing/IT ISC/Workday Husky Card UW Bothell UW Tacoma UW Facebook UW Twitter University of Washington University of Washington Students Parents Faculty & Staff Alumni Quick Links About Our Units Working at UW Student Life COVID-19 Info & Updates Support Student Life Living & dining On-Campus Housing Off-Campus Housing Fraternity Housing Sorority Housing Residential Dining Husky Den Food Court Groups & activities Associated Students of UW CIRCLE The Daily Ethnic Cultural Center Fraternity and Sorority Life Graduate and Professional Student Senate The HUB Husky Neighborhood Interns Peer Health Educators Q Center Recreation Residential Life Student Activities Office Unite UW: Once united, never divided Health Campus Food Pantry Counseling Crisis Connections Emergency Care Health Advocacy, Training & Education Medical Care Mental Health Recreation Digital Wellness 101: Taking Control of Your Life Online Task Force on Student Mental Health Campus safety Bias Incident Advisory Committee Community Standards and Student Conduct Husky NightWalk SafeCampus Sexual Assault Resources Student Care and Consultation UW Police Department UWPD Victim Advocacy Career prep Career & Internship Center Finding and maximizing campus jobs Blog Student Life Menu About Our Units Working at UW Student Life COVID-19 Info & Updates Support Student Life Living & dining On-Campus Housing Off-Campus Housing Fraternity Housing Sorority Housing Residential Dining Husky Den Food Court Groups & activities Associated Students of UW CIRCLE The Daily Ethnic Cultural Center Fraternity and Sorority Life Graduate and Professional Student Senate The HUB Husky Neighborhood Interns Peer Health Educators Q Center Recreation Residential Life Student Activities Office Unite UW: Once united, never divided Health Campus Food Pantry Counseling Crisis Connections Emergency Care Health Advocacy, Training & Education Medical Care Mental Health Recreation Digital Wellness 101: Taking Control of Your Life Online Task Force on Student Mental Health Campus safety Bias Incident Advisory Committee Community Standards and Student Conduct Husky NightWalk SafeCampus Sexual Assault Resources Student Care and Consultation UW Police Department UWPD Victim Advocacy Career prep Career & Internship Center Finding and maximizing campus jobs Blog Home Student Life Groups and activities Groups and activities When you’re a Husky, you not only get an outstanding education. You also get a chance to take part in rewarding and fun groups and activities – especially for University of Washington students. Get moving From rock climbing to cardio, basketball to kayaking, swimming to golf, and intramural sports to mindfulness. UW Recreation has options for everyone. Explore Recreation Engage & relax At the Husky Union Building, you’ll find a smorgasbord of student services, including the Q Center, Student Activities Office, study and lounge areas and even a bowling alley! See what’s at the HUB Join a group Did you know there are more than 1,000 registered student organizations (RSOs)? Find out more about them – and about participating in student government – at the Student Activities Office in the HUB. Get involved at the SAO Stay informed Keep up with what’s happening with The Daily, the UW student-run newspaper. Or contribute to the paper by writing, editing, illustrating, designing or selling ads for the paper. Check out The Daily Go Greek Philanthropic projects. Lifelong friendships. Building community. Fraternities and sororities can offer a support system, while giving you an opportunity to grow and help others. VISIT THE OFFICE OF FRATERNITY & SORORITY LIFE Enjoy your campus home Living in student housing provides a great way to meet new people, get involved in your residence hall community and join in fun activities. Find out about Residential Life Get into politics The Associated Students of the University of Washington is the student government at the UW. The ASUW works to serve students and improve student life. Learn about ASUW Join grad student government The Graduate and Professional Student Senate represents graduate and professional students at the UW. GPSS works to support and improve all aspects of graduate and professional student life. Learn about GPSS Develop your potential Visit the Samuel E. Kelly Ethnic Cultural Center to discover resources and opportunities, including student advising, organizational development, personal growth and referrals to different departments and programs. Connect with the Kelly ECC Improve your neighborhood More than 3,000 students live in the North of 45th neighborhood. Join Husky Neighborhood Interns to make a positive impact in your community. Check out HNI Promote health Volunteer with Peer Health Educators, a group of students who facilitate workshops about health issues to groups all over campus. Discover more about PHE Connect across international borders Join Unite UW to meet, build friendships, and gain understanding of fellow Huskies from all over the world. JOIN UNITE UW Connect with us Email us or call 206-543-4972 Blog Spring 2022 Resources & Opportunities (Vol. 4) – Husky Pawket Guide 2 weeks ago Spring 2022 Resources & Opportunities (Vol. 3) – Husky Pawket Guide 4 weeks ago Spring 2022 Resources & Opportunities (Vol. 2) – Husky Pawket Guide 1 month ago University of Washington Be boundless Connect with us: Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Pinterest Accessibility Contact Us Jobs Campus Safety My UW Rules Docket Privacy Terms Newsletter © 2022 University of Washington | Seattle, WA