Skip to main content Baylor Business - Hankamer School of Business Baylor University About HSB Student Resources Giving Contact Undergraduate #BU26 Graduate MBA Programs Army-Baylor Programs Master of Business Analytics Master of Information Systems Master of Economics Master of Accountancy Master of Taxation Doctorate in Entrepreneurship Doctorate in Health Services Research Doctorate in Information Systems Areas of Study Accounting & Business Law Baylor Business Fellows Economics Entrepreneurship & Corporate Innovation Finance, Insurance & Real Estate Information Systems & Business Analytics Marketing Management Centers & Institutes Entrepreneurship Family Business Financial Markets Health Policy & Leadership International Business Nonprofit Leadership Professional Selling Real Estate Sales & Marketing Sports Strategy and Sales Technology Center Ethics Baylor Business Review Podcast Visit Hankamer About HSB Career Center Alumni About HSB Student Resources Giving Undergraduate Graduate Areas of Study Centers & Institutes Ethics HSB Centers & Institutes Baylor Business HSB > About HSB > Centers & Institutes The Technology Center The Technology Center provides excellent service and state-of-the-art equipment for students, faculty and staff in the Hankamer School of Business. In order to serve all its users, the center functions as a separate department, reporting directly to Dean Terry Maness. Center for Professional Selling Baylor University's Center for Professional Selling is dedicated to excellence in sales education. Based in the university's Hankamer School of Business, the sales center is recognized as one of the premier information and leadership resources for collegiate students and sales professionals in the nation. John F. Baugh Center for Entrepreneurship The primary goal of the John F. Baugh Center for Entrepreneurship is to extend an arm of support to the local and national business community in such a way as to facilitate new business and further the goals of established businesses. This has been accomplished over the last 20 years through a number of outreach programs designed to assist local entrepreneurial efforts as well as national business interest. McBride Center for International Business In 1992, the McBride Center for International Business was established to provide general coordination and support of all our international activities. Supported by a generous endowment from the estate of Mayo McBride of Woodville, Texas, the McBride Center is headed by its Director, Professor Stephen Gardner, and its Associate Director, Professor Joseph McKinney. Real Estate Sales & Marketing Thanks to the vision and generosity of Gary Keller (BU 1979), Baylor University has established the Keller Center to study issues that are pressing for real estate companies and agents in today's marketplace. The Keller Center will focus on discovering and communicating ways that residential real estate agencies can grow and best serve their customers. Hodges Financial Markets Center Made possible by a generous donation from Hodges Capital, the Hodges Financial Markets Center is a state-of-the-art classroom that simulates the environment of an investment firm. The facility serves as the classroom for the Practicum in Portfolio Management course for the student-managed Philip M. Dorr Alumni and Friends Endowed Investment Fund, currently valued at approximately $7 million. Texas Family Business of the Year Baylor University's Institute for Family Business recognizes firms whose families demonstrate a commitment to each other and to business continuity through its Annual Texas Family Business of the Year Awards. These firms are responsive to the needs of their employees, communities and industries. Search Site Map Stay Connected Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkedIn Podcast YouTube RSS Feed Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkedIn Podcast YouTube RSS Feed Baylor Business Links About HSB Advisory Board Baylor Business Brand Events Maps & Directions News Find Us Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkedIn YouTube Podcast RSS Feed Resources and Tools Canvas Digital Measures Directory Faculty/Staff Resources HSB Policies Student Resources Copyright © Baylor® University. All rights reserved. Legal Disclosures. Baylor University Waco, Texas 76798 1-800-BAYLOR-U