Skip Navigation Texas A&M University Search Options Web People Search Search MENU Search About Admissions Academics Athletics Research Student Life Search Future Students Current Students Faculty & Staff Parents Visitors Former Students Make a Gift Search Options Web People Search Search Close Search Why Texas A&M? Affordability How to Apply Life on Campus Faculty Aggiebound Menu Home About Admissions Academics Athletics Research Student Life Info For: Future Students Current Students Faculty & Staff Parents Visitors Former Students Make a Gift Home Future Students Why Texas A&M? Maybe you've wanted to be a veterinarian since you got your first dog, or your childhood Legos have inspired you to be an architect. Whether you want to explore the stars and the outer corners of the universe, find a cure for a disease threatening mankind, or bring your digital art to life at a major animation studio, you can make it happen at Texas A&M. Aggiebound Viewbook Visit Campus Majors Affordability A degree from Texas A&M is a great investment – one that continues to appreciate over time. We're consistently recognized as a top value in higher education, based on our combination of academic quality and affordability. An education from Texas A&M remains very valuable and very affordable, year after year. Tuition Calculator Continue to Financial Aid #1 "Best College Value" in Texas - Money Magazine - 2018 How to Apply Find your niche and discover your path: whatever you dream, make it a reality at Texas A&M! Freshman Graduate Programs Transfers Life on Campus Not only do we want our students to succeed, but we want them to have the college experience of a lifetime. Visit the Student Life Site Virtual Tour Can't make it to Aggieland for a visit? Take a tour of our campus and experience Texas A&M online. Visit the Virtual Campus Tours Site The Faculty of Texas A&M You'll have some of the best and brightest faculty members in the world at Texas A&M. Our more than 3,500 faculty members include winners of the Nobel Prize, Wolf Prize, and National Medal of Science — and every one of them is dedicated to preparing the next generation of leaders and making life-changing discoveries. Read more about our faculty Faculty awards include: Aggiebound? First, a big congratulations — welcome to the Aggie Family! Take a look at the links below for the next steps to take now that you've been admitted. We can't wait to see you in Aggieland! Fish Camp New Student Conferences Housing Dining Transportation About Texas A&M Texas A&M at a Glance Aggie Traditions Colleges & Departments Global Scope Global Partnership Services Education Abroad Admissions Aggiebound Viewbook Office of Admissions Scholarships & Financial Aid Course Catalogs Cost Calculator Academic Resources Majors Rankings & Recognitions University Libraries Services/Resources Parking & Transportation Housing Dining Employment Diversity & Inclusion Emergency Preparedness Contact Us Texas A&M University 979-845-3211 College Station TX 77843 USA TAMU Facebook TAMU Twitter TAMU Instagram TAMU Snapchat TAMU LinkedIn TAMU Pinterest TAMU Youtube TAMU Reddit Texas A&M at Galveston Texas A&M at Qatar Texas A&M University System Site Policies College Station, TX © Texas A&M University Title IX Reporting Sexual Misconduct Policy Mental Health Resources Risk, Fraud & Misconduct Hotline Notice of Nondiscrimination Course Schedules & Syllabus, Faculty CV Institutional Resumes Accountability CARES Act Guidance and Reporting State of Texas Statewide Search State Link Policy Open Records Accreditation Complaints Texas Veterans Portal Texas CREWS Back to top