Skip to main content Main navigation Academics Faculty & Research News & Events Offices & Services About Us Information For Alumni Industry Partners & Recruiters Prospective Students Shortcuts Employment & Jobs Visit Us Make a Gift Search Read the latest updates on coronavirus from Harvard University. For SEAS specific-updates, please visit SEAS & FAS Division of Science: Coronavirus FAQs SearchMenu Academics Applied Mathematics Applied Mathematics at Harvard School of Engineering is an interdisciplinary field that focuses on the creation and imaginative use of mathematical concepts to pose and solve problems over the entire gamut of the physical and biomedical sciences and engineering, and increasingly, the social sciences and humanities. Working individually and as part of teams collaborating across the University and beyond, faculty and students in Applied Mathematics seek to quantitatively describe, predict, design and control phenomena in a range of fields. This involves the study of relations between models and observations, while examining the mathematical foundations and limitations of these models and techniques. Students are drawn to Applied Mathematics - now among Harvard's top five concentrations - by the flexibility it offers in learning about how to apply mathematical ideas to problems drawn from different fields, while remaining anchored to empirical data that drive these questions. Research and educational activities have particularly close links to Harvard's efforts in Mathematics, Economics, Computer Science, and Statistics. Graduates go on to a range of careers in industry, academics, to professional schools in business, law, medicine, and, well, just about anything. Applied Mathematics Leadership Petros Koumoutsakos Area Chair for Applied Mathematics Yiling Chen Director of Graduate Studies (Spring 2022), Applied Mathematics Steven J. Gortler Co-Director of Undergraduate Studies, Applied Mathematics Margo Levine Co-Director of Undergraduate Studies, Applied Mathematics Sarah M Iams Co-Director of Undergraduate Studies, Applied Mathematics Jenny Mileski Administrative Director for Academic Operations Michaela Kapp Administrative Director for Faculty Support and Administration Jessica E. Brenn Area Coordinator In Applied Mathematics Undergraduate Program First-Year Exploration Concentration Information Areas of Application AM & Economics How to Declare Who are my Advisors? Secondary Field Research Opportunities Senior Thesis Research for Course Credit (AM 91R & AM 99R) AB/SM Information Peer Concentration Advisors (PCA) Program Graduate Program How to Apply PhD Timeline PhD Overview and Requirements PhD Model Program (Course Guidelines) Oral Qualifying Examination Committee Meetings Committee on Higher Degrees AB/SM Information Faculty & Research People Courses Clubs & Organizations Centers & Initiatives Alumni Stories Research Areas Research Areas Computational and Data Science Computational Neuroscience Control Theory and Stochastic Systems Economics and Computation Modeling Physical/Biological Phenomena and Systems Theory of Computation More Applied Mathematics news Featured Stories Jul 30, 2020 Bindman launches COVID-19 relief organization SF New Deal provides free meals for people in need throughout San Francisco Read more COVID-19 Jun 24, 2020 Alumni profile: Deborah Washington Brown, Ph.D. ’81 First Black woman to earn an applied math Ph.D. passed away June 5 Read more Applied Mathematics, Computer Science Jun 11, 2020 Abebe highlighted by Cornell Chronicle Rediet Abebe was the first black woman to earn a computer science Ph.D. at Cornell University Read more Applied Mathematics, Computer Science More Applied Mathematics news Harvard John A. Paulson School of Engineering and Applied Sciences 150 Western Ave, Allston, MA 02134 29 Oxford Street, Cambridge, MA 02138 Footer - Social Media Links Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn © 2022 President and Fellows of Harvard College Footer Diversity Mission Trademark Notice Accessibility Policy Privacy Policy