Skip to main content. ADVISORY | COVID-19 Information × kumc.edu School of Health Professions School of Medicine School of Nursing University of Kansas The University of Kansas Health System The University of Kansas Cancer Center Search keywords, names, etc... Search within this section Search all sites News Archive Our Campuses Diversity and Inclusion Wellness Leadership KU Medical Center Fast Facts Events Calendar News Maps & Contact Information Make a Gift Our Campuses Make a Gift Info for Current Students Blackboard Webmail myKUMC Prospective Students Prospective Employees Alumni Faculty & Staff Residents & Fellows Patients Donors Researchers Visitors Our Campuses Make a Gift Info for kumc.edu Our Campuses Make a Gift Info for Academics Academics Prepare for your health care career with top-ranked programs, state-of-the-art facilities and unmatched opportunities for clinical training. Admissions & Aid Degree Programs International Education Clinical Education Interprofessional Education Libraries Student Handbooks Related Links: School of Health Professions School of Medicine School of Nursing Research Research Explore world-class research programs that advance the health sciences and attract national recognition. Centers, Institutes and Cores Our Experts Research News Research Administration Human Research Protection Program Scheduling Research Facilities Related Links: Student Research Forum Summer Research Training Program Patient Care Patient Care As an academic medical center, we work with The University of Kansas Health System and other regional partners to provide high-quality, compassionate clinical care. The University of Kansas Health System The University of Kansas Cancer Center Student-Run Clinics Clinical Education University and Faculty Practice Outreach Outreach We build partnerships throughout the state to find new ways to improve the lives of Kansans. Our community-based efforts extend across the country and around the world. Social Impact Rural Education Global Health Career Development Community Programs Outreach News Related Links: Community Engagement Masonic Cancer Alliance Student Life Student Life Our three campus communities offer unique social events and cultural attractions—the perfect backdrop to our world-class education programs. Student Support Activities & Events Diversity and Inclusion Wellness Why Kansas? Related Links: Office of Student Life Office of Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Office of International Programs About About The University of Kansas Medical Center's mission is to improve lives and communities in Kansas and beyond through innovation in education, research and health care. Our Campuses Diversity and Inclusion Wellness Leadership KU Medical Center Fast Facts Events Calendar News Maps & Contact Information Make a Gift News Archive Class of 2022 enjoys a return to in-person graduation ceremonies Hooding and Recognition Ceremonies were held in person with an audience of the graduates’ friends and family. In Lawrence, graduates attending commencement heard advice from KU Medical Center’s Steve Stites, M.D. May 16, 2022 | Anne Christiansen-Bullers Outside the Hooding and Recognition Ceremony for KU School of Medicine. Photos by KU Medical Center Photography Services After being limited to video livestream for the last two years, the 2022 Hooding and Recognition Ceremonies for the University of Kansas Medical Center were held in person at the Soldiers and Sailors Memorial Hall in Kansas City, Kansas, on May 14. The KU Schools of Health Professions, Nursing and Medicine honored their graduates one day before the University of Kansas commencement in Lawrence, where a KU Medical Center vice chancellor was the featured speaker. Returning to tradition Memorial Hall had been the traditional location for the Hooding and Recognition Ceremonies, but the classes of 2020 and 2021 could not follow that tradition. Their ceremonies were virtual, with graduates gathered at home in the close-knit “bubbles” of friends and family common during the COVID-19 pandemic. The Class of 2022, however, was fortunate enough to have Wyandotte County’s COVID status declared “medium” and the number of COVID hospitalizations at a plateau. Just 17 days before the event, the mask requirements were amended to make masks optional on the KU Medical Center campus and related events. So, the face-to-face, traditional ceremonies with friends and family went ahead as scheduled. Each school had its own separate ceremony, as the schools have in the past. “How wonderful it is to be back in person,” said Sally L. Maliski, Ph.D., RN, FAAN, dean of KU School of Nursing, to nursing graduates. “Isn’t this exciting, after so many years, to be back in person to really celebrate this momentous milestone in your lives and careers.” Shaped by a pandemic Abiodun Akinwuntan, Ph.D., MPH, MBA, dean of KU School of Health Professions, congratulates a graduate during the school's recognition ceremony. Despite the return to face-to-face ceremonies, the impact of the COVID pandemic remained cognizant in the speakers’ remarks. Robert D. Simari, M.D., executive vice chancellor for KU Medical Center, said to the graduates of the School of Medicine, “You’ve had quite an unusual academic journey, but you’ve demonstrated that even a global pandemic could not stop you from reaching this day.” In that same ceremony, Douglas A. Girod, M.D., chancellor of the University of Kansas, reminded attendees of Barney Graham, M.D., an alumnus of KU School of Medicine and Time Magazine’s Hero of the Year for his work on the COVID-19 vaccine. “Without a Jayhawk, we probably would not be in this room together right now.” The School of Medicine’s featured speaker, Giulia A. Bonaminio, Ph.D., senior associate dean for medical education, told graduates that the pandemic “has shaped you and informed you, but don’t let it define you. Use what you’ve learned, the good and the bad, about yourself, your family, your friends and your community.” The medical center’s Class of 2022 included: 321 students from the School of Health Professions 256 students from the School of Medicine 298 students from the School of Nursing Commencement in Lawrence Revelers at KU School of Nursing recognition ceremony, which was held in between the School of Health Professions (first) and the School of Medicine (third) The threat of severe weather pushed back the commencement ceremony in Lawrence on May 15. Originally scheduled to begin at 10:30 a.m., the traditional walk down the Hill was rescheduled four hours later than originally expected to avoid thunderstorms. Steven Stites, M.D., a faculty member at KU and vice chancellor for Clinical Affairs at KU Medical Center, was the featured speaker at Sunday’s university-wide commencement in Lawrence. In addition to his roles at KU Medical Center, Stites is chief medical officer for The University of Kansas Health System. Stites became a national figure in the COVID-19 pandemic. On the health system’s morning update, streamed live on Facebook and then also on YouTube, he served as a daily source of pandemic information for the community and the media during the height of COVID-19 fear and infection. He remains a steady voice promoting science with regular visits to the update, and he hosts the show on Wednesdays under the title “Open Mics with Dr. Stites.” Giving grace Steve Stites, M.D. Though now recognized regionally and nationally for his role during the pandemic, Stites offered this humorous self-deprecation to start of his speech: “I don’t know if Dr. Girod realized when he invited me, he was inviting somebody with the head of Picard and the ears of Spock. Hopefully you remember who those (characters) are.” On the more serious side, he urged the graduates to “be the bridge. When you reach across communities and you form bonds instead of boundaries, anything can happen. Greatness can happen.” That message was part of five rules Stites imparted. After the speech, he indicated those rules are what he wanted people to remember because they were the basis of his message: giving grace. “Granting positive regard to others helps open up conversations that are based in truth and honesty as opposed to friction and anger,” Stites said. Stites said speaking at commencement was “a complete honor and totally unexpected.” “The University of Kansas benefits from terrific leadership, and that was completely demonstrated during the pandemic when KU nation rose to the challenge and kept the school safe, our students and each other safe, and the community safe,” Stites said. “It was truly a remarkable example of teamwork and it was an honor to be able to talk about that.” See Related Stories in School of Nursing, School of Medicine, School of Health Professions Newsroom Media Inquiries 913-617-8698 khawes@kumc.edu News and Media Relations Make a Gift 3901 Rainbow Boulevard, Kansas City, KS 66160 | 913-588-5000 About Calendar News Equal Opportunity Statement Careers Facebook opens in new tab Twitter opens in new tab YouTube opens in new tab Instagram opens in new tab LinkedIn opens in new tab © 2022 The University of Kansas prohibits discrimination on the basis of race, color, ethnicity, religion, sex, national origin, age, ancestry, disability, status as a veteran, sexual orientation, marital status, parental status, gender identity, gender expression, and genetic information in the university's programs and activities. Retaliation is also prohibited by university policy. Inquiries regarding our non-discrimination policies should be directed to the Director for the Equal Opportunity & Academic Compliance Office, Mail Stop 7004, 4330 Shawnee Mission Parkway, Fairway, KS 66205, 913-588-5964, 711 TTY (for the Wichita, Salina, and Kansas City, Kansas medical center campuses). Inquiries regarding the University Sexual Harassment Policy should be directed to the Title IX Coordinator at 913-588-8011. Free Expression Statement | Privacy Statement | Notice of Privacy Practices | Consumer Information We use cookies to analyze our traffic & provide social media features. Visit the KU Medical Center Privacy Statement for more information. By closing this window & browsing this site, you agree to our use of cookies.