Skip to main content Menu Audiences Students Faculty/Staff Alumni Partners Resources A-Z Index Calendar Campus Maps CU Safety Phonebook Webcams Make a Gift Admissions Campus Life Academics Visit Research About Home About Who We Are Recognition and Awards Council for Diversity & Inclusion Corporate CDO Advisory Board Programs and Initiatives Men of Color National Summit Women's Roundtable Pre-Summit Supporting Diversity Contact Us Shared Leadership Access and Equity Charles H. Houston Center Diversity Education and Training Gantt Multicultural Center Hispanic Outreach Strategic Planning for Inclusive Excellence Title IX Commissions Accessibility Commission Commission on the Black Experience Commission on Latino Affairs LGBTQ Commission Commission on Women Veterans Commission Main Content Recognition and Awards Martin Luther King Jr. Awards for Excellence in Service Three awards are given annually in these categories: Clemson University Student (undergraduate or graduate), Clemson University Employee (faculty or staff), and Clemson Area Community Member (Anderson, Oconee or Pickens counties). Winners are those deserving individuals who exhibit excellence in service in one or more of the following areas involved in advancing Dr. King’s vision of the “Beloved Community.” This criteria includes service to Clemson University or the surrounding community, advocacy for social or environmental justice, and service above and beyond direct employment. The recipient of the student Award will receive a cash stipend. Other winners will be able to direct a grant to the campus or community organization of the recipient’s choice. Each will also receive a personal plaque, and be recognized on a permanent plaque showing past winners. NOMINATE > PAST RECIPIENTS > James E. Bostic, Jr. Diversity and Inclusive Excellence Award Clemson University’s Office of Inclusion and Equity has established the James E. Bostic, Jr. Diversity and Inclusive Excellence Award to recognize faculty, staff and students for displaying an exceptional commitment to fostering an environment in which diversity is understood, valued, respected and appreciated. The recipient of the award receives a $1,000 cash prize and a distinctive commemorative award. This award will be presented annually to individuals who have made an outstanding contribution to creating an inclusive and welcoming community at Clemson University by implementing an initiative in the classroom, workplace or campus community that fosters relationships that advance acceptance, appreciation, respect, diversity and inclusive excellence. Nominees must show evidence of advancing equity, diversity and inclusion at Clemson University in one or more of the following areas: Regularly demonstrates behaviors and champions ideals of equity, diversity, and inclusion. Identifies and addresses systemic barriers to full participation in University life and helps the University community to be an inclusive and welcoming learning, working, and living environment. Develops innovative programs that significantly enhance Clemson’s ability to facilitate participation of all of its members, and provide opportunities for members of the Clemson community to reap the benefits of studying, living, and working in an equitable, diverse, and inclusive environment. Actively serves underrepresented populations (among students/faculty/staff) to provide access and opportunities to increase their engagement within the Clemson community and integration into the community. NOMINATE > PAST RECIPIENTS > Audiences Students Faculty/Staff Alumni Partners Apply To Clemson Undergraduate Graduate Professional Online Education Employment Opportunities Policy/Terms of Use Text Version Web Accessibility Ethics/Safety Hotline Privacy Policy Site Information Copyright © 2022 Clemson University Clemson, South Carolina 29634 864-656-3311 Contact Clemson Stories for the Clemson Family Clemson University on Facebook Clemson University on Twitter Clemson University on LinkedIn Clemson University on Flickr Clemson University on Instagram