Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. Campus Recreation Campus Recreation right arrow down arrow Hours & Schedules right arrow down arrow Campus Recreation Center (CRC) Fitness Center at CARE/Crawley Aquatics Fitness Classes Intramurals Climbing Wall Severe Weather Policy COVID-19 Operations right arrow down arrow Fitness Floor Map Virtual Resources Visit right arrow down arrow Getting Started right arrow down arrow Fitness Floor Orientation Equipment Tutorials Parking Facility Hours Terms & Conditions Lockers & Towels Pro Shop FAQ Things To Do right arrow down arrow Fitness Classes right arrow down arrow Online Fitness Fitness Programs & Special Events 30 Minute Workout Area Personal Training Trainings & Certifications Aquatics Climbing right arrow down arrow Policies & Waiver Intramural Sports right arrow down arrow Intramural Sports Rules right arrow down arrow Intramural Sports Handbook 3-on-3 Basketball 5-on-5 Basketball 7-on-7 Football 7-on-7 Soccer 11-on-11 Soccer 4-on-4 Volleyball 6-on-6 Volleyball Dodgeball Futsal Kickball Pickleball Softball Spikeball Tennis Ultimate Wallyball FAQ Racquetball REC Kids Camp right arrow down arrow Parent/Guardian Guide Team Building Pickleball Membership right arrow down arrow Rates & Discounts Fitness Floor Orientation Terms & Conditions Facilities & Rentals right arrow down arrow Facility Rentals Birthday Parties Process Rates Policies Reservation Jobs right arrow down arrow Staff Directory Student Employment Home » Campus Life » Campus Recreation » Visit » FAQ Set Navigation title in component Getting Started Fitness Floor Orientation Equipment Tutorials Parking Facility Hours Terms & Conditions Lockers & Towels Pro Shop FAQ FAQ Quick Links Aquatics Cancellation & Membership Freezes Facility Information Group Fitness IDs Intramural Sports Lockers, Towels & Rentals Membership, Student, & Guest Access Parking Personal Training & Nutrition Facility Information Are the Campus Recreation Center and Fitness Center open on holidays?  right arrow down arrow We have modified hours on all holidays observed by the university. Please be sure to check the Hours & Schedules page or call Member Services, 513-556-0604, to find more information about alternate hours due to holidays. What are the CRC Climbing wall hours of operation? right arrow down arrow Find the current hours for all CRC facilities are in the CRC Hours page. Where are the CRC classrooms?  right arrow down arrow Although the CRC classrooms are located in the same building as the Rec Center, they are not inside the Rec Center. By taking the steps or elevator located off of the MainStreet passageway you will have access to all classrooms located in the CRC. How many laps on the CRC suspended track equal a mile?  right arrow down arrow The suspended track is 1/8 of a mile; one must run 8 laps (in the outside lane) to equal one mile. Do athletes practice at the CRC?  right arrow down arrow The only varsity team that uses our facility for regular practices and/or competitions is UC Swimming and Diving. The pools remain open during their practices with lanes available for members; any closure for meets will be posted in advance. Can I enter/exit through the glass doors at the Fitness Center at CARE/Crawley? right arrow down arrow The glass doors are for emergency use only, the alarm will sound if they are opened. Is there an on-site EMT or Trainer? right arrow down arrow No; however in lieu of an EMT or an on-site trainer, all staff members in leadership positions are required to be CPR, AED and First Aid certified. Our vicinity to the local hospitals and our emergency action plan helps us respond to all emergencies as quickly as possible. IDs I forgot my UC/CRC ID. Can I still enter the Recreation Center? right arrow down arrow Members are permitted to use an alternate form of photo-identification (e.g., driver’s license, passport, etc.) up to three times per semester. If a student has lost their UC ID, he/she must obtain a new ID from Public Safety for a fee. If a member has lost their CRC ID, they will need to purchase a new ID from Campus Recreation for a $10 fee. I am a student, faculty or staff member. Can you print me a new UC ID if mine is lost, stolen or damaged?  right arrow down arrow Campus Recreation is not permitted to print UC IDs. If your UC ID is lost, stolen or damaged, you will need to go to Public Safety in order to acquire a new ID. Membership, Student and Guest Access I am a part-time student. Can I still have access to the facility?  right arrow down arrow Since part time students only pay a portion of the Campus Life Fee, there is a $60/semester charge to use the facility. I am a regional campus student/ co-op student. Can I still have access to the facility?  right arrow down arrow Since branch students and Co-op students do not pay the Campus Life Fee, there is a $120/semester charge to use the facility. What are my options for summer since I am on Medical School quarters?  right arrow down arrow Access to the CRC for Medical Students is based on the Medical School terms. Access is granted from the Sunday before classes begin until the Saturday before the next term begins. Summer memberships can be purchased for $130/semester or $12/week. I would like to bring my kids and a couple of their friends in to swim. What do I need to do?  right arrow down arrow The parents of your kids' friends will need to sign waivers of liability to bring with you to the Member Services Desk. Each guest pass is $12, and you will need an ID and a waiver for yourself and your kids, if you haven't already signed one. I would like to bring a guest to the Recreation Center or Fitness Center. Is there a fee?  right arrow down arrow All guests are welcome at the Campus Recreation Center and the Fitness Center at CARE/Crawley. All day passes are $12/day. All guests must provide a photo ID and sign a waiver of liability to enter the facility. Members who bring guests are responsible for them while they are using the facility. Guests are expected to remain with their sponsor throughout their visit. I'm not ready to commit to a year contract. Are there any short term memberships?  right arrow down arrow Campus Recreation offers a number of short-term memberships.  For more information please see the Membership section of our website.  Cancellation and Membership Freezes How do I cancel my membership? right arrow down arrow Complete a membership cancellation form online. All cancellations MUST be submitted through our website. Cancellation forms must be turned in by the 15th of the month prior to the month that you would like to cancel. Cancellations during the initial one-year contract will be assessed a $75 cancellation fee. I am leaving on sabbatical for the next six months. Can put my membership on hold until I return?  right arrow down arrow Annual memberships may be maintained as inactive for a $5 monthly fee, for a minimum of two months. Months paid at a $5 rate do not count towards the completion of an annual contract. Current membership rates will be applied to all reactivated memberships. Submit a Membership Freeze form online or at the Member Services Desk. Parking Is parking included in my membership? right arrow down arrow Parking is not automatically included in your membership, however it is available to all Community, Affiliate and Alumni members as well as their spouses, domestic partners and/or legal dependents. Pricing and eligibility information can be found under Membership. UC students, faculty, and staff must purchase parking through UC Parking Services. Can I use parking while on campus at any time, or just to come into the CRC or FC?  right arrow down arrow Parking is only to be used while in the Recreation Center or Fitness Center, this is monitored on a monthly basis. Misuse will result in immediate termination of parking privileges. Lockers, Towels & Rentals What is the cost to use a locker for the day? right arrow down arrow There is no fee for day-use lockers; they can be utilized on a first-come first-served basis.  When using a locker at the Campus Recreation Center, a member just needs to bring a lock. If the member does not have a lock, they are available for purchase at the Member Services Desk. Locks and belongings must be removed from day use lockers by closing on the day of use. Semester and annual rental lockers are available to our members. Additional information can be found at the Member Services Desk. When using a locker at the Fitness Center at CARE/Crawley, a member just needs to bring a quarter or a lock. The CARE/Crawley facility utilizes quarter lockers, day-use lockers, and rental lockers. Do the CRC and Fitness Center at CARE/Crawley offer towel service?  right arrow down arrow Towel service is available in both of our facilities! We have daily, semester and annual rates. We also have the option to purchase a towel punch pass that is valid for 1 year from the time of purchase. Can I rent Racquetball and/or Badminton racquets and balls/birdies?  right arrow down arrow We do not rent racquetball or badminton racquets or balls/birdies. These items are available for purchase at Member Services. This isn't the same basketball I checked out; can I check this one in anyway?  right arrow down arrow You are responsible for the basketball YOU checked out. If you leave the basketball behind and we collect it at the end of the night, you will be assessed a $5 fee. If the basketball you checked out is lost or stolen a $40 replacement fee will be assessed. All fees must be settled before you will be allowed access back into the facility. Group Fitness Is group fitness included in my membership?  right arrow down arrow Yes, group fitness is an included opportunity for every member to participate in with no additional cost! What is the difference between group fitness and a premium class? right arrow down arrow Group fitness classes are offered on a drop-in basis. You don't have to pre-register for group fitness and classes are filled on a first come first served basis. Premium classes are progressive in nature and require enrollment at the start of each session. Instructional classes build week to week and are open to member and non-members. For a small fee, instructional classes afford the personalized approach that training does with the group setting of a class. Aquatics Is there a pool at the fitness center at CARE/Crawley?  right arrow down arrow Although there is not a pool at the Fitness Center at CARE/Crawley, all members have access to the aquatic facilities at the Campus Recreation Center. How do I get to the pool?  right arrow down arrow The pool is located on the lower level of the CRC. Follow along the basketball courts and you will see the aquatics sign to the left. Go through 2 sets of double doors to enter the aquatics area. What can I do at the pool?  right arrow down arrow The aquatic center offers group and private swim lessons for pre-school, youth and adults. We also offer aquatic fitness classes. Private rentals are also available. Visit the Aquatics page for a full list of activities. Why is it difficult to swim backstroke in the lap pool?  right arrow down arrow The Keating Aquatic Center (KAC) is not an easy pool to swim backstroke in. The architecturally-unique design of the ceilings does not allow for a point of focus to follow when swimming backstroke; swimmers need to use the lane lines and back stroke flags. Intramural Sports How do I register for Intramural Sports?  right arrow down arrow Pick a Sport and develop your team. Pay the team fee online or in person at the Campus Recreation Center Administrative Suite (located on the east side of the Campus Recreation Center) during the registration period. The CRC Administrative Suite is open Monday - Friday, 9 a.m.-5 p.m. Register your team on our intramural scheduling website. You will receive a confirmation e-mail with further league instructions. All players on your roster must be a current UC student (taking classes in the same semester or UC staff/faculty AND have an active membership to the UC Campus Recreation Center. Note: Space is limited and is on a first-come first-serve basis. Register early! Additional details can be found on the Intramural Sports page. How do I become an Intramural Sports Official?  right arrow down arrow Please contact us at intramural@uc.edu to request more information about job openings. Personal Training & Nutrition Does Campus Recreation offer Personal Training services?  right arrow down arrow Yes. We offer both one-on-one and small group personal training services to members and non-members. Visit the personal training page for more information. How long are Personal Training sessions? right arrow down arrow Training sessions are 45 minutes in duration and can take place in our private Personal Training Suite, HIT Studio, one of our Aquatic spaces, Nippert Stadium (when available), or on our 17,000 square foot Fitness Floor. If I have a personal trainer at another gym, can I bring them to the CRC/FC? right arrow down arrow No. It is against our policy for non-campus recreation trainers to train clients in our facilities. We do offer excellent in-house personal training services. What is a fitness assessment? right arrow down arrow A fitness assessment is a series of baseline tests performed by a trainer to create points from which to measure your progress and success. Fitness assessments measure cardio-respiratory efficiency, muscular strength and endurance, muscle and joint flexibility, and body composition and can be tailored to the client's needs. Does Campus Recreation offer Nutrition services?  right arrow down arrow Unfortunately, Campus Recreation no longer offers nutrition services. For nutrition resources, please visit the UC Wellness Center. If you have a meal plan, you may schedule a free consultation with the dining services dietitian. Campus Recreation Center | 2820 Bearcat Way | Cincinnati OH 45221 | 513-556-0604 Fitness Center at Care Crawley | 3230 Eden Avenue | Cincinnati OH 45267 | 513-558-0604 campusrec@uc.edu UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati Campus Recreation Center | 2820 Bearcat Way | Cincinnati OH 45221 | 513-556-0604 Fitness Center at Care Crawley | 3230 Eden Avenue | Cincinnati OH 45267 | 513-558-0604 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top