Ohio State nav bar Skip to main content The Ohio State University Help BuckeyeLink Map Find People Webmail Search Ohio State The Ohio State University Alumni Association GIVE NOW Activities and events Virtual engagement Upcoming events On-demand events Alumni Tours Rent event space Ohio State Alumni Awards 2022 Alumni Awards: Call for Nominations Membership Your membership Become a life donor Career Management Official ring Communities Alumnifire Alumni clubs and societies Find a club Find a society BuckeyeBuzz submission form Resources Buckeye Advocates Buckeye Room Classmates Current students Recent graduates Student-Alumni Council Student-Alumni Council Beat Tees Young Alumni Academy Pay forward Alumni Scholars Program Volunteer opportunities Scholarships Student recruitment Team Buckeye The Oval Collection Wines Buckeyes Helping Buckeyes News Ohio State Alumni Magazine Advertising Issues In Memoriam Go Buckeyes! Buckeye Football Ticket Process Ohio State Athletics Game Watch Game Watch Abroad About About us Contact info Staff directory Video collection The Engagement Center The Engagement Center Team Home Activities and events Virtual engagement Virtual engagement Enjoy virtual events, find a new job, watch webinars, access kids’ programming and more. On-demand events Browse through a collection of on-demand events to watch at your leisure. Start browsing Ohio State alumni app Ohio State is always in your heart. Now you can put it in your pocket. On the app, you'll find news from campus, stories about your fellow alumni, game watch locations around the globe, ways to join clubs and societies, and a spirit section that includes stickers, ringtones and more to help you cheer on our Buckeyes. Download now Digital spirit Connect to your university community and show your Buckeye pride with everything from Zoom meeting backgrounds, ringtones, apps and more. Download now Virtual Ice Tour: MOSAiC Expedition The Byrd Polar and Climate Research Center gives you a unique look into its Polarstern research ship and scientific “cities” that are established on the ice. Explore using this fun, interactive site and discover new facts as you learn about research happening at the North Pole! Explore now Digital communities Buckeye Room Alumni are invited to provide input on the university and the alumni experience by participating in this new online forum. Learn more Professional networking communities LinkedIn group Alumnifire Follow the alumni association on social media Facebook Twitter Instagram Career management resources The Bill and Susan Lhota Office of Alumni Career Management wants to assist in your career development. Whether you're a new graduate, mid-level, or entering into your encore career, you'll find helpful programming and resources. Learn more For families Activities Create your own Script Ohio! Ohio State coloring pages Resources for learning at home Virtual tips from rec sports WOSU programming Early Childhood at OSU YouTube channel Buckeye Biography: 150 years of Ohio State As part of The Ohio State University's sesquicentennial celebration, we are proud to offer this tailor-made, video documentary version of the popular, History of Ohio State course. Hosted by Dr. David Staley, this documentary covers the origins of Ohio State traditions, notable turning points in our 150 year history, and the contributions of students, faculty, and staff to Ohio State and the world. Watch now © 2022 The Ohio State University Alumni Association Longaberger Alumni House | 2200 Olentangy River Road, Columbus, OH 43210 Contact: 614-292-2200 or 800-678-6355 | Webmaster | Page maintained by University Marketing Request an alternate format of this page | Web Services Status | Nondiscrimination notice Ohio State Alumni Assoc. The Ohio State University