Skip To Main Content Report an Accessibility Barrier The Department for Disability Support Services Search | Menu Search Resources Email Canvas Banner PiratePort PirateID IT Help Videoconferencing Engage Work Request Directory Maps Virtual Tour A-Z Index Academic Calendar Event Calendar Catalog PRR Catalog A-Z Recently Updated Interim Repealed About Policy Sources University Policy Committee Help PRRs> Academic Affairs> Accreditation, Assessment and Other Academic Matters> Making Up Missed Instructional Time Due to Suspension of Instruction - Version 1 Making Up Missed Instructional Time Due to Suspension of Instruction Version 1 (Current Version) Print All Versions: Version 1 Policy REG02.07.10 Title Making Up Missed Instructional Time Due to Suspension of Instruction Category Academic Affairs Sub-category Accreditation, Assessment and Other Academic Matters Authority Provost and Senior Vice Chancellor for Academic Affairs History Approved to post as interim October 28, 2019; Faculty Senate approved on April 6, 2020; Non-substantive edits made August 10, 2020. Contact Director of Academic Planning & Accreditation and sacation: (252) 737-3614 Related Policies REG 02.07.01 Definition of a Semester Credit Hour Additional References ECU Credit to Contact Hour Guidelines UNC Policy Manual 400.1.6 - The University of North Carolina Academic Calendar REG 06.45.02 - Adverse Weather and Emergency Event Regulation 34 CFR 668.8: Federal Definition of a Credit Hour ECU Academic Calendars Faculty Senate Resolution #14-59 - Policy for Making Up Missed Class Days Continuity of Instruction Guidelines SACSCOC Emergency Temporary Relocation of Instruction Policy 1. Purpose and Applicability ECU adheres to REG 02.07.01, the associated ECU Credit to Contact Hour Guidelines, & UNC policy manual 400.1.6 which mandates the minimum amount of instructional time per credit hour. The purpose of this amendment is to establish guidelines and procedures for making up missed instructional time due to the closure of the University because of inclement weather and emergencies. ECU policy on campus closures due to adverse weather and emergency events are outlined in REG 06.45.02 - Adverse Weather and Emergency Event Regulation. 2. Definition of a Semester Credit Hour ECU REG 02.07.01 outlines the institutional definition of a credit hour, which adheres to the federal definition of a credit hour, UNC Policy 400.1.6 outlined below, and the Carnegie unit for contact time. This regulation applies to all courses at all levels that award academic credit regardless of mode of delivery or site of instruction, including but not limited to self-paced, online, blended/hybrid, lecture, seminar, studio, laboratory, independent studies, internship, practicum, service learning, and other experiential learning activities. Academic units are responsible for ensuring that credit hours are awarded only for work that meets the requirements outlined in this regulation. For purposes of the application of this regulation at ECU and in accord with federal regulations, a credit hour is an amount of work represented in intended learning outcomes and verified by evidence of student achievement that is an institutionally established equivalency that reasonably approximates not less than: 2.1 One hour of classroom or direct faculty instruction and a minimum of two hours out of class student work each week for approximately fifteen weeks for one semester or trimester hour of credit, or ten to twelve weeks for one quarter hour of credit, or the equivalent amount of work over a different amount of time, or 2.2 At least an equivalent amount of work as required outlined in item 2.1 above for other academic activities as established by the institution including laboratory work, internships, practica, studio work, and other academic work leading to the award of credit hours. (34 CFR 668.8, July 1, 2011) Credit hours are determined based on the amount of instructional time devoted to coursework and are developed and reviewed in consultation with the ECU Credit to Contact hour Guidelines; a companion document to REG 02.07.01. 3. UNC Policy Manual 400.1.6 UNC policy manual 400.1.6 (adopted 07/12/96; amended 07/01/07) requires that all UNC system campuses must ensure that every course offered for academic credit adheres to the standard of a minimum of 750 scheduled minutes of instructional time or the equivalent per credit hour. The time may include required examination periods but may not include study days. 4. Guidelines for Making Up Classes After a Closure or Multiple Closures of the University The University’s goal is to plan for unanticipated interruptions to the delivery of education and services. The following procedure is intended to guide faculty, departments, and colleges when schedule interruptions occur. 4.1 Definitions For the purpose of this document: One Contact Hour – equals 50 instructional minutes. Academic calendar – The official list of dates and deadlines found at the beginning of the undergraduate and graduate catalogs and on the Faculty Senate website. The academic calendar specifies the dates for semesters and terms, enrollment periods, examination periods, holidays, periods classes are not in session, and commencement. Short-term Closures – closures of 14 days at any time or multiple closures totaling up to 14 days for courses spanning the full 16 week semester or closures of 7 days at any time or multiple closures totaling up to 7 days for courses spanning an 8-week block during the semester. Long-term Closures – closures of more than 14 days for courses spanning the full 16 week semester or closures of more than 7 days for courses spanning an 8-week block during the semester. 4.2 Short-term Closures of 14 days or less Short-term closures due to inclement weather or other emergencies, individual faculty will determine how the subject matter will be covered and how the students will satisfy the requirements of the course, as stated in Faculty Senate Resolution #14-59. Suggestions for alternative assignments and activities that can be used to make up instructional time for class periods are detailed in the University’s Continuity of Instruction Guidelines. Faculty will complete a brief online form to document the recovery of instructional time. Documentation is necessary for Department of Education financial auditing and SACSCOC accreditation purposes. For a partial closure during the week of final exams of any semester, the exam period will be extended by the appropriate number of days. 4.3 Long-Term Closures Long-term closures require a more structured approach to recovering lost instructional time. To maintain course continuity, make up instructional time for missed class periods, make progress in course content, and meet the state and federal credit hour requirements, executive leadership in consultation with faculty senate leadership may elect to use one or more of the following strategies to amend the academic calendar: 1. Hold classes on fall break, spring break, reading day(s), or other academic breaks 2. Classes may be held on weekends 3. Extension of the semester for the amount of time missed a. For fall semester i. final exams may extend into or be held after winter break ii. spring semester may begin late to accommodate the shift in fall schedule iii. commencement dates may be adjusted as needed b. For spring semester i. the summer school schedule may be altered to extend spring final exams ii. the first half of summer session may be cancelled, summer school to resume with the late summer session iii. commencement dates may be adjusted as needed c. For summer session i. Courses taken the first half of summer may be extended into the second half of summer and second summer session may be cancelled ii. If the closure occurs during course taken during the second half of summer session, the session may be extended or cancelled iii. For 12-week sessions, the session may be extended 4. Closure during Exam Week: for a partial closure during the week of final exams of any semester, the exam period will be extended by the appropriate number of days. 5. Emergency Temporary Relocation: In the event of natural disasters, fires, or other extraordinary circumstances that may impact the University’s ability to provide services on-campus for an extended period of time, ECU will follow the guidelines detailed in the University’s Continuity of Instruction Guidelines and SACSCOC Emergency Temporary Relocation of Instruction Policy. 4.4 Distance Education Instruction Unless an exception is indicated by the Office of Academic Affairs, all technology-delivered courses will follow the University's above procedures on holding classes. Under adverse circumstances, the assumption should be made that students do not have access to necessary materials or technology. In the event that inclement weather prohibits students from participating in technology-delivered instruction, class activities, or testing, students will be permitted to make up missed class requirements. East Carolina University E 5th Street | Greenville, NC 27858 | 252-328-6131 ©2022 | Terms of Use | Accessibility | Report a Barrier