Your browser does not support iframes. Skip to main content Menu Scheller College of Business Request More Information Attend an Info Session Contact Us Directory Apply Now Search Why Scheller? Programs Executive Education Academics Centers & Initiatives News & Events Overview & History Dean's Message and Report Meet Ernest Scheller Jr. Advisory Board Accreditation Strategic Plan Business at Tech Graduates Get Hired Return on Investment Faculty and Advisors Global Perspective A Good Fit Corporate Engagement Trading Floor Georgia Tech Community Student Life Making Connections and Learning Opportunities Diversity Diversity News Career and Recruiter Services Career Services for Students Hire Our Students Giving to the College Meeting the Challenge Priorities and Needs Faculty Support Student Support Program Enrichment Unrestricted Endowment The Impact of Your Gift How to Make a Gift FAQs Scheller MBA Annual Fund Alumni Network Alumni News Alumni Resources Update Contact Information Visit Campus Tech Square and Atlanta Full-time MBA Admissions Curriculum Career Development Leadership Development Student Organizations Student & Alumni Profiles Meet an MBA Ambassador FAQsEvening MBA Admissions Curriculum Career Advancement Leadership Development Student Organizations Student & Alumni Profiles Meet an MBA Ambassador FAQs Executive MBA Admissions Curriculum Career Development Student & Alumni Profiles FAQsMBA Programs Which Georgia Tech MBA is Right for Me? Commitment to Diversity, Inclusion, and Equity Dual Degree Options Experiential Learning For Engineers For Military Community MD/MBA Option MBA Early Admission for Undergrads Rankings The Intersection Podcast Earn Your MBA in Atlanta Graduate Certificate Business Analytics Certificate Undergraduate Admissions Curriculum Career Services Student Services Student Life Scholarships & Awards Rankings & Stats Connect With Us The Intersection Podcast, Undergrad PhD Concentrations Program Milestones Faculty and Staff Funding Admissions FAQs Recruiting Events Student Bios Program News Request Program Information Interdisciplinary M.S. M.S. in Quantitative & Computational Finance (QCF) Master of Science in Analytics at Georgia Tech Lean Six Sigma Certification Lean Six Sigma Green Belt Certification Lean Six Sigma Black Belt Certification FAQs Custom Programs FAQs Accounting Finance Information Technology Management Law & Ethics Marketing Operations Management Organizational Behavior Strategy & Innovation Student Certificates Engineering Entrepreneurship Entrepreneurship International Management Management of Technology Technology Innovation: Generating Economic Results Academic Speaker Series Guest Speakers in Accounting Guest Speakers in Finance Guest Speakers in Marketing Current Faculty Opportunities Business Analytics Center Engage with Us Executive Council News Research Education People Cecil B. Day Program for Business Ethics About Cecil B. Day The Cecil B. Day Prize Speakers and Events Faculty Support Net Impact Center for International Business Education and Research Projects Research Events Books People at CIBER Inside CIBER News and Events Archives International Management Certificate Sign Up for Future CIBER News Financial Analysis Lab Subscribe to Reports Institute for Leadership and Social Impact About Us Programs News Impact Speaker Series Leadership for Social Good Study Abroad Program Social Impact Fellows Ideas to Serve (I2S) Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Servant Leadership Programs Minor in Leadership Studies Excel Alumni Other ILSI Programs Partnerships Program for Engineering Entrepreneurship Ray C. Anderson Center for Sustainable Business About Us Sustainable Business Insights Research Briefs Sustainable Business Events Sustainable Business News Blog Research & Thought Leadership Empowering Students Industry Engagement Newsletter Participating in the Drawdown Georgia Compact Drawdown Georgia Business Compact Meet the Team Alumni Steven A. Denning Technology & Management Program Director's Message About Steven A. Denning T&M Curriculum Program Faculty & Staff Admissions T&M Corporate Affiliates Denning T&M Program News TI:GER® and CDL-Atlanta Program Network TI:GER MBA & PhD FAQs News Apply Inquire Resources in Technology Innovation and Entrepreneurship Scheller News Event Calendar The Intersection Podcast Media Inquiry Marketing Innovation Conference @ Scheller MBA MBA Dual Degree Options Home » Programs » MBA » Dual Degree Options » MBA Dual Degree Options Menu MBA MBA Dual Degree Options MBA Electives Without Prerequisites Full-time MBA Evening MBA Executive MBA Which Georgia Tech MBA is Right for Me? Commitment to Diversity, Inclusion, and Equity Experiential Learning For Engineers For Military Community MD/MBA Option MBA Early Admission for Undergrads Rankings The Intersection Podcast Earn Your MBA in Atlanta The MBA dual degree option allows students to combine an MBA with an M.S. or Ph.D. degree in programs from the Georgia Tech Colleges of Engineering, Computing, Design, and Liberal Arts. Pairing a Georgia Tech graduate degree with an MBA gives students a competitive advantage and a unique blend of skills to accelerate their career growth. The world of business is being transformed through technology. This environment requires a new type of leader with deep technology knowledge, business acumen, leadership ability, an entrepreneurial mindset, and strong communication skills. MBA dual degree programs cultivate these types of business leaders. Georgia Tech dual MBA degree programs allow students to count 15 credit hours from their M.S./Ph.D. courses toward their MBA elective requirements, reducing the time required to complete both degrees. Students can complete an MBA with 39 credit hours instead of 54 credit hours. Attend the next Full-time or Evening MBA info session Apply now Full-time and Evening MBA Options Students interested in pursuing an MBA in addition to another graduate degree within the Georgia Tech College of Engineering, College of Computing, College of Design, or Ivan Allen College of Liberal Arts have two program format options. Both options allow students to reduce the time and cost to complete their MBA. Full-time MBA Dual Degree Option Students who plan to pursue an MBA concurrently with another graduate degree should apply to the Full-time MBA program. This is the only way to pursue an MBA through the dual degree option if a student will be pursuing an MBA while also completing another graduate degree. Evening MBA Dual Degree Option Students who plan to complete an MBA after completing another graduate degree are eligible for the Evening MBA program. This structure is designed for those who will be working while completing an MBA. To be eligible for the reduced time and cost of the MBA dual-degree option, students must apply to the Evening MBA program before graduating from their other degree program and start the MBA program after completing their other degree program. Students who have already graduated from another graduate program are eligible to apply to the Full-time and Evening MBA programs but are not eligible for the dual degree option. M.D./MBA Option Georgia Tech Scheller College of Business and Morehouse School of Medicine (MSM) also have a partnership to offer an M.D./MBA program as a dual degree option. The M.D./MBA with Morehouse School of Medicine (MSM) program allows students to count 15 credit hours from their MSM M.D. degree courses toward their MBA elective requirements, reducing the cost and time required to complete the MBA degree. Students interested in this option should read more on the M.D./MBA page. The remaining information on this page is applicable for dual degree options with Georgia Tech. Dual MBA Eligibility Students who have been admitted to an M.S. or Ph.D. program in the Georgia Tech Colleges of Engineering, Computing, Design, or Liberal Arts are eligible to pursue the dual degree option. This includes students in interdisciplinary programs between colleges, such as the M.S. Analytics and Quantitative & Computational Finance (QCF) programs. Students should apply to the MBA program before graduating from their other graduate degree program. Students who have already graduated from another graduate program are eligible to apply to the Full-time and Evening MBA programs but are not eligible for the dual degree option. In addition, students should have competitive credentials comparable with the current pool of MBA applicants in order to be admitted to the program. To learn more, view the Full-time MBA or Evening MBA class profile. If you are not a current Georgia Tech student, you will need to complete a separate application for each program. Only one application can be open at a time, so you will need to submit one before starting the other. In some cases, it may be beneficial to start the non-MBA degree program before applying to the MBA program. Program Structure It is recommended students complete most M.S./Ph.D. courses before starting the MBA program. However, students can complete the MBA requirements in other ways that best fit their schedules. Dual degree students will work with their MBA academic advisor to decide how to best complete the MBA with their other degree requirements. Application and Admissions Students who have been admitted to another Georgia Tech graduate degree program can reuse letters of recommendation from their application. The MBA program accepts either the GMAT or GRE. If Georgia Tech has already received a student's valid GRE score, they do not need to resubmit a test score. Contact us to learn more about applying to the MBA program under the dual degree option, the GMAT and GRE test-optional policy, and an application fee waiver. Full-time MBA Application Requirements Applicants for the Full-time MBA program can apply by any of the application deadlines. However, applying by Round 1 guarantees a decision by the end of the calendar year. If admitted, students can then begin taking select MBA electives during the spring semester prior to officially beginning in the fall. Evening MBA Application Requirements Applicants for the Evening MBA program can apply by any of the application deadlines. Applicants are only eligible for the dual degree option if they apply to the Evening MBA program before completing their other graduate degree. However, they must start the Evening MBA program after completing their other graduate degree. Applicants who plan to complete the MBA concurrently with another graduate degree are only eligible for the Full-time MBA program. Tuition and Financing MBA tuition is higher than the standard graduate tuition rate at Georgia Tech. The tuition amount above the standard graduate tuition rate is the "MBA differential.’" The total tuition for any semester that a dual degree student (without a graduate assistantship) is enrolled in the Full-time MBA program will be the standard graduate tuition rate plus the MBA differential. (Dual degree students with graduate assistantships see below.) The MBA differential will apply for a maximum of three semesters, even if the student requires more than three semesters to complete the MBA requirements. Dual degree students who are granted graduate assistantships from departments outside the Scheller College of Business will receive their tuition waivers from those departments and will be responsible for paying an adjusted MBA differential for semesters enrolled in the MBA program, for a maximum of four semesters. Students who have been granted these non-Scheller graduate assistantships should use these steps to view the tuition rate they will be charged during MBA program enrollment: Visit the Bursar & Treasury Services website. Select the term of enrollment in the MBA program. Select the “Graduate Assistantship Rates” link. Your per semester tuition rate (the differential) is listed next to "Master in Business Administration (Dual Degree)." Tuition rates can change each academic year, so you should check the website noted above to confirm tuition for each term of MBA program enrollment. Please check with your graduate assistantship supervisor to ensure you will be allowed to retain your graduate assistantship while enrolled as a dual degree student with the MBA program. If you're completing an MBA after graduating from your other graduate degree, standard Full-time MBA or Evening MBA tuition will apply. You must apply to the MBA program prior to completing your other graduate degree in order to be eligible for the reduced credit hours through the dual degree option. Learn more We have compiled a selection of the questions prospective dual-degree MBA students ask most frequently. If you are unable to find the answer to a specific question or wish to speak with someone directly, feel free to  contact us online  or call 404.894.8722. Dual Degree Program Information Who can pursue a dual degree? The MBA dual degree option is offered to selected students enrolled in M.S. and Ph.D. programs in the Colleges of Engineering, Computing, Design, or Liberal Arts. More specifically, the dual degree may be attractive to M.S. and Ph.D. students who wish to pursue a technology management career outside of academia and help them progress eventually into senior management roles. Is this a new degree? No. The M.S., Ph.D., and MBA programs are all currently offered at Georgia Tech, and their degree requirements remain unchanged. The M.S./MBA and Ph.D./MBA dual degree simply allows students to count courses taken in the Colleges of Engineering, Computing, Design, or Liberal Arts towards their MBA degree. Why does Georgia Tech have an M.S./MBA and Ph.D./MBA offering? The world of business is being transformed by technology at an increasing rate. Innovations in the technology sector are transforming the U.S. economy and technology companies have become the employers of choice for many of our graduates. Simultaneously, companies in traditional sectors such as consumer goods, finance, retail, and transportation are using technology in innovative ways to reach new customers and improve operational efficiency. This new environment needs a new type of leader with deep technology knowledge, business acumen, and leadership, entrepreneurship, and communication skills. We believe Georgia Tech is uniquely positioned to develop such leaders, and the dual degree offering provides us the opportunity to do that. If I drop out of my other graduate program, am I still eligible for a dual degree? If you have been admitted to the MBA program and then drop out of your other graduate program, you will need to complete the 54 MBA credit hours for the MBA degree. You have to complete your other graduate degree to also receive an MBA at the reduced 39 credit hours. If you are not pursuing another graduate degree, you are not eligible for the reduced 39 MBA credit hours. MBA Curriculum & Schedule Which of my M.S./Ph.D. courses are eligible to also count toward the MBA dual degree? For students who have been admitted to the MBA program for a dual degree, 15 credit hours from the student’s other degree will automatically be applied toward the MBA. Any College of Engineering, Computing, Design, or Liberal Arts courses can count toward these 15 hours for the MBA degree. I’ve already taken some MBA elective courses. Can I count these toward the MBA dual degree? If you are NOT applying these MBA courses to your other graduate degree, yes, you can count up to 9 credit hours toward your 18 credit hours of MBA electives. If you ARE applying these MBA courses to your other graduate degree, you can count them as the 15 credits hours that double count; you will still need to take 18 credit hours of additional MBA electives. Only 15 credit hours can count toward both degrees. What MBA courses can I take if I have not yet been admitted to the MBA program? View a list of MBA electives that can be taken without core prerequisites. If you are not currently an MBA student, you will need to wait for any major restrictions to be removed toward the end of phase I registration or during the first week of classes. Can I take MBA courses during the summer? If you have been admitted and paid your deposit to the Full-time MBA program as a dual degree student, you can request to take MBA electives during the summer. However, current Evening MBA students have priority for summer courses. You will need to contact the MBA program office to request permits to take these courses. Full-time MBA students must take all core classes during the day with the Full-time MBA cohort. If you are an Evening MBA dual degree student, you will NOT be able to take summer courses. Can I take core MBA courses in the spring or summer? Almost all Full-time MBA core courses are only taught in the fall; this is the only time they can be taken. Additionally, a select few MBA core courses are only taught in the spring. All of these core courses must be taken as part of the Full-time MBA cohort. Can I take more MBA electives than the 18 hours required for a dual degree? Yes, you can take more MBA electives than what is required for a dual degree. Do I have to complete a summer internship? The summer internship is not required, but it is recommended for MBA students because it helps them gain experience in a desired field before interviewing for full-time positions. I want to register for an MBA elective, but it says there are major restrictions. What do I do? If you are not currently an MBA student, you will need to wait for major restrictions to be removed toward the end of phase I registration or during the first week of classes. Major restrictions will only be removed for select MBA electives that do not have a prerequisite. Admission Process When during my other graduate degree should I apply to the MBA program? You should apply to the MBA program during the year before you plan to start MBA core classes the next fall. For most students, this will be during their final year of their other degree courses because the following year, they will focus on MBA courses. View the Full-time MBA application deadlines. You may begin taking  MBA electives  that can be taken without core prerequisites in the spring after/while you apply, prior to starting MBA core classes in the fall. Tip: If you apply by the Round 1 deadline, you will be guaranteed a decision by the end of the calendar year. Then you will already know whether you have been admitted and want to move forward with taking MBA electives during the spring semester. Do I need to tell my other program that I am also pursuing an MBA? If you will be completing the MBA while still completing your other graduate degree, yes, your sponsor/advisor must give permission for you to also pursue an MBA. Students should also check with their funding agency regarding restrictions or conditions for funding. If I’ve already completed my M.S./Ph.D., can I be considered for the Dual Degree program? No, in order to be eligible for a dual degree, you must apply to the MBA program and be admitted BEFORE completing your other graduate degree. You can complete your M.S./Ph.D. before starting the MBA program, as long as you were admitted to the MBA program before you completed that degree. Can I defer my MBA admission and start the program a little later? You can defer your admission for one year after being admitted to MBA; this allows M.S./Ph.D. students to gain one additional year of work experience before beginning the MBA program. If you do plan to defer one year, please make this clear during the admission process. How important is work experience? For MBA admission, we recommend at least two years of professional post-undergraduate work experience. This is more important for M.S. students than for Ph.D. students for career placement because many companies recognize Ph.D.-level research as applicable work experience. We realize many graduate students begin their program immediately after completing their undergraduate degree. If you do not have at least two years of professional work experience, you will need to show experience on your resume that can count as professional work experience. For example, co-op experience and graduate-level projects working with real companies may apply. Work experience will be evaluated on a case-by-case basis. You may want to take advantage of the optional essay in the MBA application to give examples of professional work experience. What is different about the dual degree admission process vs. the regular MBA admission process? The admission process is generally the same. However, if you are already at Georgia Tech, we will have access to some of your required application materials. For example, if Georgia Tech already has your official GRE score, you do not need to resubmit this. Official transcripts should also already be on file and do not need to be submitted. In addition, you do not need any new letters of recommendation; we can use these letters from your previous application. That being said, an additional professional reference can help you have a more competitive application, as many dual degree applicants only used academic references for their first application. Contact us to learn more about applying to the MBA program under the dual degree option and to inquire about an application fee waiver. Can I apply to the MBA program using my previous Georgia Tech application? No, you will still need to complete the MBA application because there are different components than your previous application. However, if Georgia Tech already has your valid GRE score, you do not need to resubmit this. In addition, you do not need any new letters of recommendation; we can use these letters from your previous application. Tuition and Funding Are dual degree students eligible for MBA funding opportunities? If you do not have funding from another program, you will be eligible for merit-based MBA fellowship funding opportunities. You should apply by the Round 1 or Round 2 deadline for priority funding consideration. How does MBA tuition work with my other graduate tuition? MBA tuition is higher than the standard graduate tuition rate at Georgia Tech; we refer to this amount as the MBA differential. The MBA differential is assessed differently for Full-time and Evening MBA students. Full-time MBA differential is charged per semester, and Evening MBA differential is charged per credit hour. See the tuition and financing section for more information. I am not a current Georgia Tech student. Can I apply for the dual degree program? Yes. You will need to complete a separate application for each program. Only one application can be open at a time, so you will need to submit one before starting the other. In some cases, it may be beneficial to start the non-MBA degree program before applying to the MBA program. Related Links Full-time MBA FAQs Take action Request More Info Attend an Info Session Meet Us Scheller College of Business Home Why Scheller? Overview & History Business at Tech Georgia Tech Community Career and Recruiter Services Giving to the College Alumni Network Visit Campus Tech Square and Atlanta Programs MBA Undergraduate PhD Interdisciplinary M.S. Executive Education Lean Six Sigma Certification Custom Programs Academics Accounting Finance Information Technology Management Law & Ethics Marketing Operations Management Organizational Behavior Strategy & Innovation Student Certificates Academic Speaker Series Current Faculty Opportunities Centers & Initiatives Business Analytics Center Cecil B. Day Program for Business Ethics Center for International Business Education and Research Financial Analysis Lab Institute for Leadership and Social Impact Program for Engineering Entrepreneurship Ray C. Anderson Center for Sustainable Business Steven A. Denning Technology & Management Program TI:GER® and CDL-Atlanta News & Events Scheller News Event Calendar The Intersection Podcast Media Inquiry Marketing Innovation Conference @ Scheller LinkedIn Instagram Facebook Twitter Youtube Flickr Georgia Institute of Technology Scheller College of Business 800 W. Peachtree St. NW Atlanta, GA 30308 404.894.2600 © 2022 Georgia Institute of Technology Intranet Emergency Information Contact the College Privacy & Legal Notice Accountability Web Accessibility Resources for People with Disabilities Plugins Youtube Usage Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Hazing Public Disclosures