Skip to content Columbia University Irving Medical Center Find People Events Faculty and Staff Resources Give Now Search About Us About Us Facts and Figures Explore CUIMC Events Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion at CUIMC Community Development and Alumni Explore CUIMC Leadership and Administration A-Z Listing Affiliated Hospitals Campus Map and Directions Campus Resources Contact CUIMC Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion At CUIMC, we are committed to continuous improvement in providing culturally inclusive medical education and clinical care. Learn About Our Commitment Education Education Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons Mailman School of Public Health School of Nursing College of Dental Medicine VP&S Columbia Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons is dedicated to developing the next generation of leaders in medicine Learn About Our Academic Programs Research Research The Louisa Gross Horwitz Prize Columbia Technology Ventures Research Administration Columbia Clinical Innovation Lab Patient Care Patient Care ColumbiaDoctors Children's Health Columbia Primary Care Herbert Irving Comprehensive Cancer Center ColumbiaDoctors Dentistry Digital Health Services at Columbia Find a Doctor Search for a provider by specialty, expertise, location and insurance. Schedule an appointment online. Find a Doctor News News For the Media Share Your News CUIMC Update CUIMC Celebrates Columbia Medicine Read the latest news stories about CUIMC faculty, research, and events Explore Our News COVID-19 Resources for CUIMC COVID-19 Resources for CUIMC COVID-19 Information for Patients COVID-19 Campus Safety for Employees and Students COVID-19 Vaccine Information For CUIMC Employees and Students COVID-19 Information and Resources for Clinical Staff COVID-19 Vaccine Information Learn about COVID-19 vaccine availability and requirements for employees and students at CUIMC Get the Latest Information You are here Home > COVID-19 Resources for CUIMC > COVID-19 Vaccine Information For CUIMC Employees and Students > December 24, 2020: Update on COVID-19 Vaccine Distribution COVID-19 Information for Patients COVID-19 Campus Safety for Employees and Students COVID-19 Vaccine Information For CUIMC Employees and Students COVID-19 Information and Resources for Clinical Staff December 24, 2020: Update on COVID-19 Vaccine Distribution Dear Colleagues, What an amazing 18 hours we have experienced, as NewYork-Presbyterian has done over 5000 vaccinations in that short period of time. The Pfizer mRNA vaccine had been used exclusively on the Columbia/NYP campus until last night, when the Moderna vaccine began to be used. The next wave of vaccinations includes a broader group of patient-facing teams. As of last night, December 23, nearly 11,000 NewYork-Presbyterian, Weill Cornell, and Columbia staff have been vaccinated across the enterprise. For the coming days, the Moderna vaccine will be used exclusively and these numbers will grow substantially. We are part of a truly herculean vaccine distribution effort taking place across the country and New York State. According to the CDC, over one million doses of COVID-19 vaccine have been administered as of Dec 23, 2020, including 89,000 in New York State. We encourage everyone who has received the vaccine to sign up for v-safe, a smartphone-based tool that uses text messaging and web surveys to provide personalized health check-ins after COVID-19 vaccination. This also contributes to the accumulating safety database about these vaccines. The CUIMC Vaccine Committee continues to contribute to the updates of FAQ materials to reflect newest evidence and experience with vaccines. Please visit our COVID-19 Vaccine Information page for up to date information on the vaccination effort at CUIMC. Enjoy the long weekend, and we will reconnect on Monday! Magda Sobieszczyk, MD Chief of Infectious Diseases and Co-chair of the CUIMC COVID-19 Vaccine Committee Melissa Stockwell, MD MPH Chief of the Division of Child and Adolescent Health and Co-chair of the CUIMC COVID-19 Vaccine Committee Columbia University Irving Medical Center NewYork-Presbyterian About Us Careers News Education Patient Care Research Resources at CUIMC Columbia University Irving Medical Center 630 West 168th Street New York, NY 10032 United States Follow Us Facebook Twitter YouTube LinkedIn Instagram Back to top