Skip to main content iastate.edu Index A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z Directory Maps Safety Sign Ons Iowa State University University Library Menu Toggle Search Toggle Search Index Hours My Library Card Give Research & Collections Find Books & Media (Quick Search) Article Indexes & Databases e-Books e-Journals - A-Z list Specific Article by Citation or DOI Course Reserves Movies and TV Streaming Video Collections WorldCat (Open Access) Catalogs of Other Libraries Iowa State Collections DataShare: ISU's Data Repository Digital Collections Digital Initiatives Digital Press Digital Repository @ Iowa State University Special Collections and University Archives Research Help Research and Course Guides Quick Search Tips Find Articles Find Dissertations and Theses Find Other Types of Material Find Audiovisual Materials Find Books Find Census Data Find Government Documents Find Images Find Legal Research Find Magazines, Journals Find Manuscripts and Archives Find Maps Find Microforms Find Newspapers and News Find Standards Cite Sources Cite Sources Overview Endnote Ask Us! Find Your Librarian Collections Areas Leisure Collection Media Center Periodical Room Reference Materials Call Numbers in Parks Library Library Storage Building Design Reading Room Design Reading Room Overview About the Design Reading Room Course Reserves - Design Reading Room Design Reading Room Staff Veterinary Medicine Library Restricted Building Access About the Vet Med Library Veterinary Medicine Library Staff Borrowing Main Desk Check Out and Return Request Books and More Pick From Shelf Service Recall or Hold an Item Renew an Item Interlibrary Loan & Document Delivery (ILL/DD) ILL/DD Overview ILL/DD Account Login Interlibrary Loan FAQ Libraries Requesting ISU Materials Unaffiliated User Terms and Conditions Missing Items Loan Periods Fines (overdue/lost items) Book a Media Item for Classroom Use Who May Borrow? Your Library Card Help & Services Accessibility Services Accessibility Services Overview Services & Equipment Available Physical Access to Parks Library Building and Collections Accessibility Services at Branch Libraries For You Services for Students Faculty & Instructors Distance Learners International Nest Alumni & Visitors Assistance Lost & Found Find Your Librarian Ask a Librarian How Do I ... Library FAQ Access E-Resources Access My Library Card Get Something That's Not Available Find Articles Find Dissertations and Theses Find Other Types of Materials Cite Sources Quick Search Tips Teaching & Class Support Library Instruction Overview Library 160 Course-related Instruction Course Reserves Research and Course Guides Workshops Copyright Information Open Scholarship Services Binding theses Solution Center Systems Status Spaces & Computers Study Rooms Group Study Rooms Research Study Rooms Quiet Areas Reserve a Library Space Parks Library spaces Floor & Tier Maps Accessible and Sensory Friendly Spaces Learning Connections Center Bookends Café International Nest Mindfulness Room Where to find ... Room Number Listings Physical Access to Parks Library Building and Collections Diaper changing stations and lactation room Restrooms Library Classroom Use Computers & Technology Assistive Technology Computers and Computer Labs Interactive Displays for Group Work Laptop & Equipment Checkout Group Equipment Loans Outlets and Wireless Printing, Copying, Scanning Other Equipment Parks Libro NVivo Software Access Design Reading Room Veterinary Medicine Library Ask Us! Library Instruction Overview Coordinator: Jeffrey Kushkowski, 515 294-2408, kushkows@iastate.edu Our Mission: ISU librarians and the Library's Instruction Services staff teach information literacy concepts and research skills that enable researchers at all levels to identify, access and use high-quality information. The Library's instruction services advance the land-grant mission of the University and support the teaching and learning needs of ISU faculty, staff, and students. Lib 160: Introduction to College-Level Research: At the undergraduate level, we teach an effective and successful information literacy foundations course that is a graduation requirement. The course examines the use of research libraries and information resources, with an emphasis on finding, evaluating, and using scholarly information. See the Library 160 class guide for more information. Work with us! The Library 160 course is just the beginning of our instructional outreach to students. For many of our undergraduate and graduate instruction efforts, we rely on collaborations with ISU faculty and instructors. Librarians can work with instructors and faculty to integrate information literacy concepts and Library resources into your ISU courses in several ways: Online Research and Course Guides The ISU Library's liaison librarians are subject specialists who create and update Research Guides for many subject areas taught at ISU. These guides provide information about locating research-specific research databases, journals, print resources, and authoritative websites in disciplinary areas. ISU librarians can also partner with instructors to develop course-specific Class Guides that will introduce their students to information resources that are relevant to class needs and specific assignments. Partnering with a liaison librarian, instructors can tailor resources for specific projects or assignments. The Library’s online guides are listed in the Research & Course Guides tab on the Library website. Instructors can also embed research guides and course guides in their Canvas classes to give students direct access to library resources. In Canvas, you can also visit the My Library space (under Help section in global menu) to review the helpful Library tools we've made available for you to embed into your Canvas course pages. Adding the “ISU Library Resources” page in your course level navigation bar will provide your students with relevant guides, databases, and links to their liaison librarian. To initiate a collaboration or to learn more about course-specific Class Guides, contact your liaison librarian or Jeffrey Kushkowski, Instruction and Information Services Coordinator. Course-related instruction sessions You can collaborate with your liaison librarian to teach or co-teach an in-class course-related instruction session. These sessions focus on introducing your students to subject-focused research materials relevant to your class or discipline. Students also learn strategies to effectively gather and evaluate scholarly information. Whenever possible, active learning strategies and a student-centered approach are customary. When you collaborate with a librarian, you can also opt for the course-related instruction session(s) taught by your librarian to take place in one of the Library's computer labs, allowing students to have authentic hands-on practice with the databases, resources, and activities being introduced. To arrange for an in-class course-related instruction session, please contact your liaison librarian at least two weeks prior to the date the instruction is desired. The earlier the contact, the more you and your librarian can discuss your student learning goals, assignments, and plan meaningfully toward the desired outcomes. Course Reserves The Library's Course Reserves Processing staff work with hundreds of faculty and courses each semester, and will link instructors' Course Reserve lists online in the Library website. Digital items that instructors request will be linked on these lists. Any books, DVDs, and other physical items requested will be listed on the Course Reserve list and available for students to request at the Library's Circulation Desk. Instructors wanting to place items on Reserve for their courses can submit requests via the online forms found on the Course Reserves web pages or come in person to meet with Reserve Processing staff at the Parks Library Circulation Desk. Library research and class guides are also linked to Course Reserves lists. Distance & Online Learning The Library continues to strengthen our distance & online learning outreach by consolidating information relevant to ISU students and faculty in DL courses in one easy to access place. We especially recommend all distance learning students review our Distance Learning Guide to learn how to access our library resources and services from off-campus and to review our instructional materials that cover the most asked-about basics. Embed your Librarian! Your liaison librarian can also work with your distance or fully online course! You can enroll your librarian into your Canvas or Moodle course for providing feedback to students in discussion boards or blogs, or work with your librarian to develop a live or archived instruction session via Adobe Connect or other video conferencing software. Contact your liaison librarian for more information. Online instruction resources Flipping your course? Interested in collaborating with us to develop Library tutorials and online library instruction resources for you and your students to use? Contact Jeffrey Kushkowski, Instruction and Information Services Coordinator. Tours and research visits The Library's Instruction Department coordinates annual Freshman Orientation tours as well as tours for new international students. New faculty and staff wishing to have a tour should contact their liaison librarian for a specialized tour and review of the collection resources and services for the relevant subject area. For non-ISU groups, tours of the ISU Library can be arranged for groups of alumni and other adult groups, when these can be accommodated. Request tours at least two weeks in advance of the desired tour. Contact Emily Simmons for more information. See also our Tours and Research Visits page. Note that ISU Class instruction needs are best met through instruction sessions (see above) rather than a building tour. Visiting high school classes planning a research day in the ISU Library will also want to review our Research Visits guidelines, and make arrangements well in advance of the planned visit. Train the trainer No time for Library instruction in your course? Contact your liaison librarian to discuss and refresh your own skill sets so that you can address the information literacy and library research issues relevant to your course assignments. Library databases, resources, and services change frequently and you'll want to be up to date. Your students will thank you! We look forward to working with you! Other Library instruction See also: Library 160 See also: Library Workshops University Library University Library 701 Morrill Rd Ames, IA 50011-2102 Ask Us! 515 294-3642 phone Email Webmaster Facebook Twitter Follow us FDLP Copyright © 1995-2022 Iowa State University of Science and Technology All rights reserved Non-discrimination Policy Privacy Policy Digital Access & Accessibility Consumer information