Home Home Students Parents Faculty & Staff Alumni College of Engineering Electrical and Computer Engineering AE100R Paul G. Allen Center for Computer Science & Engineering 206-221-5270 Website Faculty Website recept@ece.uw.edu Electrical engineering is concerned with the understanding and utilization of electricity and with providing society useful, efficient, and economic products and services. It encompasses everything from batteries and power supplies to crystal fabrication, autonomous robots, and devices that can recognize human speech. Electrical engineers design, produce, study, and operate all manner of devices and systems that use electric and electromagnetic energy. They also work on systems at the macro scale of electric power grids and at the micro scale of nanotechnology. Contemporary society is in the midst of an information revolution, created in large part from the fruits of electrical engineering. Rapid improvements in communication technologies, computer visualization, and information access continue to have a significant impact on manufacturing, medicine, transportation, and environmental monitoring. Undergraduate Programs Program of Study: Major: Electrical Engineering Bachelor of Science in Electrical Engineering degree Bachelor of Science in Electrical Engineering degree: Nanoscience and Molecular Engineering Graduate Programs Program of Study: Doctor Of Philosophy (Electrical Engineering) Doctor Of Philosophy (Electrical Engineering) Doctor Of Philosophy (Electrical Engineering: Data Science) Doctor Of Philosophy (Electrical Engineering: Electrical Engineering And Nanotechnology And Molecular Engineering) Doctor Of Philosophy (Electrical Engineering: Electrical Engineering And Nanotechnology) Program of Study: Master Of Science In Electrical Engineering Master Of Science in Electric Engineering (Data Science) Master Of Science In Electrical Engineering Master Of Science In Electrical Engineering (fee-based) Undergraduate Program Electrical and Computer Engineering AE100R Paul G. Allen Center for Computer Science & Engineering 206-221-5270 undergrad@ece.uw.edu Program of Study: Major: Electrical Engineering Program Overview Electrical Engineering students study the design, production, and operating devices of systems that use electric and electromagnetic energy for sensing, processing, visualizing and use of information. Subjects of study include circuits, systems and controls (robotics); signal and image processing; electronics, electronic devices, and photonics; computers; energy systems; electromagnetics and optics. This program of study leads to the following credentials: Bachelor of Science in Electrical Engineering degree Bachelor of Science in Electrical Engineering degree: Nanoscience and Molecular Engineering Admission Requirements Engineering Undeclared Students See section on College of Engineering Admission for additional details on Direct-to-College admission and placement process for Engineering Undeclared students. The deadline to submit a request for placement in an engineering major occurs annually on July 1. If the number of Engineering Undeclared students requesting the major exceeds the department capacity for such students, a matching process is implemented. Factors considered include performance in prerequisite courses, quality of overall academic record, content of personal statement, applicable work or extracurricular activities, and other special circumstances as disclosed by the applicant. Engineering Undeclared students in good standing with respect to the continuation criteria described below may request placement into an engineering major after completion of minimum requirements as specified below: ENGR 101 English composition MATH 124, MATH 125, MATH 126 (or MATH 134, MATH 135, MATH 136) CHEM 142 (or CHEM 143 or CHEM 145) PHYS 121 (or PHYS 141) One course from the list on this website. Students are encouraged to choose a course required for graduation in the majors they are considering. Minimum 2.0 grade in all courses used to satisfy placement requirements Minimum 2.50 cumulative GPA in courses used to satisfy placement requirements Minimum 12 credits as a matriculated UW student. Some departments require more credits. See department websites for details. Students in good standing who do not meet the placement requirements by July 1 will be placed into a major on a conditional basis pending the completion of all placement requirements. Additional advising resources will be available to these students. See section on College of Engineering Continuation Policy for Engineering Undeclared Students for additional details. Other Current UW Students and Transfer Students Current UW students without Engineering Undeclared status and transfer students may apply. Admission is competitive. Admission is for autumn quarter only. Application deadline: April 5 Minimum course requirements: MATH 124, MATH 125, MATH 126 (or MATH 134, MATH 135, MATH 136); CHEM 142 (or CHEM 143 or CHEM 145); PHYS 121, PHYS 122 (or PHYS 141, PHYS 142); 5 credits English composition. All courses completed prior to application deadline. In addition, MATH 207 (unless MATH 135 was completed) and PHYS 123 (or PHYS 143) completed with minimum grades of 2.0 prior to autumn quarter Minimum 60 credits completed by application deadline Grade requirements: Minimum 2.0 grade for each course required for application; minimum 2.50 cumulative GPA in courses required for application Factors considered include performance in prerequisite courses, quality of overall academic record, demonstrated ability to handle rigorous course load, record of honors, content of personal statement, applicable work or extracurricular activities, and other special circumstances as disclosed by the applicant. Bachelor of Science in Electrical Engineering degree Credential Overview Electrical Engineering majors customize their major by completing one of fourteen undergraduate concentrations. Our concentration areas include: Analog Circuits; Bio-medical Instrumentation; Communications; Controls; Digital VLSI Circuits; Electromagnetics; Embedded Computing Systems; Large Scale Power Systems; Photonics; Power Electronics and Electric Drives; Sensors and Devices; Signal Processing; Sustainable Electric Energy; and, Synthetic Biology. Completion Requirements General Education Requirements Basic Skills (20 credits) Written and Oral Communication (12 credits) English Composition: 5 credits from the University list Writing: ENGR 231; E E 393 (or department-approved alternative) Quantitative and Symbolic Reasoning (QSR) (5 credits): met by program requirements Diversity (DIV) (3 credits): courses may also apply to an Areas of Knowledge requirement Areas of Knowledge (69-70 credits) Visual, Literary & Performing Arts (VLPA) and Individuals & Societies (I&S) (25 credits) VLPA (10 credits) I&S (10 credits) Additional credits in VLPA or I&S to bring total to 25 credits Natural World (NW) (44-45 credits) Mathematics (18-24 credits) complete one of the following: MATH 124, MATH 125, MATH 126, MATH 207 (or AMATH 351), MATH 208 (or AMATH 352), MATH 224 MATH 134, MATH 135, MATH 136, MATH 224 Sciences (20-21 credits): CHEM 142 (or CHEM 143 or CHEM 145); PHYS 121, PHYS 122, PHYS 123 (or PHYS 141, PHYS 142, PHYS 143) Additional NW courses as necessary to reach 44 credits Additional Completion Requirements Major Requirements (80-81 credits) Computer Programming (9 credits): CSE 142, CSE 143 Electrical Engineering Core (14 credits): E E 215, E E 233, E E 242 Electrical Engineering Major Concentration Area (24 credits minimum) Electrical Engineering Electives (up to 20 credits): See adviser for list of acceptable courses. Number of credits of the major concentration and electives should total 44. Professional Issues: One course. See adviser for list of acceptable courses. Course may also be counted toward Electrical Engineering Core, Electrical Engineering Major Concentration Area, or Electrical Engineering Electives requirement. Engineering Electives (10 credits): See adviser for list of acceptable courses. Statistics (3-4 credits): Either STAT 390, STAT 391, MATH 394/STAT 394, or IND E 315 Grade Requirements: Minimum 2.00 GPA in all E E courses with no grade below 2.0 in any of these courses. Electives (18-19 credits) Approved Non-Electrical Engineering Electives (10 credits): Selected from courses listed in the departmental handbook. Free Electives (8-9 credits) Back to Top Bachelor of Science in Electrical Engineering degree: Nanoscience and Molecular Engineering Credential Overview The Nanoscience and Molecular Engineering (NME) degree option integrates existing science and engineering undergraduate curricula with an early introduction to nanoscale principles in molecular engineering, hands-on experience, and a strong interdisciplinary network. Electrical Engineering students who declare the NME option must complete the undergraduate concentration in Advanced Electronic and Photonic Devices. Additional Admission Requirements Option specific admission Admission is by self-selection and normally occurs in winter quarter of the junior year, upon completion of all electrical engineering prerequisites and formal admission to the BS electrical engineering major. Students who complete NME 220 with a minimum 2.0 grade are eligible. Such students indicate an interest in the NME option on their electrical engineering major application and discuss their interests/background in the application personal statement. To declare, they see an EE undergraduate adviser. Completion Requirements General Education Requirements Basic Skills (20 credits) Written and Oral Communication (12 credits) English Composition: 5 credits from the University list Writing: ENGR 231; E E 393 (or department-approved alternative) Quantitative and Symbolic Reasoning (QSR) (5 credits): met by program requirements Diversity (DIV) (3 credits): courses may also apply to an Areas of Knowledge requirement Areas of Knowledge (69-70 credits) Visual, Literary & Performing Arts (VLPA) and Individuals & Societies (I&S) (25 credits) VLPA (10 credits) I&S (10 credits) Additional credits in VLPA or I&S to bring total to 25 credits Natural World (NW) (44-45 credits) Mathematics (18-24 credits) complete one of the following: MATH 124, MATH 125, MATH 126, MATH 207 (or AMATH 351), MATH 208 (or AMATH 352), MATH 224 MATH 134, MATH 135, MATH 136, MATH 224 Sciences (20-21 credits): CHEM 142 (or CHEM 143 or CHEM 145); PHYS 121, PHYS 122, PHYS 123 (or PHYS 141, PHYS 142, PHYS 143) Additional NW courses as necessary to reach 44 credits Additional Completion Requirements Option Requirements (80-81 credits) Computer Programming (9 credits): CSE 142, CSE 143 Electrical Engineering Core (14 credits): E E 215, E E 233, E E 242 Nanoscience and Molecular Engineering Courses (6 credits): NME 220, NME 221, NME 421. Courses may also be counted towards the Engineering Electives or Approved Non-Electrical Engineering Electives requirement. Electrical Engineering Major Concentration Area (24 credits minimum) See adviser for list of acceptable courses. Electrical Engineering Electives (up to 20 credits): See adviser for list of acceptable courses. Number of credits of the major concentration and electives should total 44. Professional Issues: One course. See adviser for list of acceptable courses. Course may also be counted toward Electrical Engineering Core, Electrical Engineering Major Concentration Area, or Electrical Engineering Electives requirement. Engineering Electives (10 credits): See adviser for list of acceptable courses. Statistics (3-4 credits): Either STAT 390, STAT 391, MATH 394/STAT 394, or IND E 315 Grade Requirements: Minimum 2.00 GPA in all E E courses with no grade below 2.0 in any of these courses. Electives (18-19 credits) Approved Non-Electrical Engineering Electives (10 credits): Selected from courses listed in the departmental handbook. Free Electives (8-9 credits) Back to Top Additional Information Student Outcomes and Opportunities Learning Objectives and Expected Outcomes Professional Opportunities: Graduates with a degree in electrical engineering find employment in industries such as aerospace, communications, computer manufacturing, power distribution, consumer electronics, and biomedical engineering. Positions can be found focusing on the research, design, and testing of new products; technical sales and marketing; business consulting; and even growing areas such as intellectual property. The BSEE program is accredited by the Engineering Accreditation Commission of ABET, www.abet.org. Program Educational Objectives: The program educational objectives (PEOs) of the BSEE degree program are to serve the needs of our students, faculty, and regional industry by producing graduates who have acquired foundational knowledge and skills through a comprehensive curriculum and immersive educational and developmental experience. After a few years following graduation, we expect our graduates to: Contribute: To have successfully and smoothly transitioned into a contributing member of the professional workforce Master: To have developed the skills, habits, and professional expertise which will carry them through their life and career Evolve: To rapidly grow and adapt to their fast changing world Innovate: To embrace change, challenge, growth, inquiry, creativity, and diversity Lead: To rise to levels of leadership and impact in their chosen specialties Steward: To responsibly apply their problem solving, critical thinking, communication, and management skills to the benefit of themselves, their communities, their region, and the world at large Student Outcomes: By graduation, we expect our graduates to have demonstrated abilities in: Problems: An ability to identify, formulate, and solve complex engineering problems by applying principles of engineering, science, and mathematics Design: An ability to apply engineering design to produce solutions that meet specified needs with consideration of public health, safety, and welfare, as well as global, cultural, social, environmental, and economic factors Communication: An ability to communicate effectively with a range of audiences Responsibility: An ability to recognize ethical and professional responsibilities in engineering situations and make informed judgments, which must consider the impact of engineering solutions in global, economic, environmental, and societal contexts Teams: An ability to function effectively on a team whose members together provide leadership, create a collaborative and inclusive environment, establish goals, plan tasks, and meet objectives Experiment: An ability to develop and conduct appropriate experimentation, analyze and interpret data, and use engineering judgment to draw conclusions Learning: An ability to acquire and apply new knowledge as needed, using appropriate learning strategies Instructional and Research Facilities: The department maintains a number of instructional and research laboratories to support courses and independent study activities. There are three general-purpose computing laboratories. Instructional laboratories include a large instrumentation laboratory supporting numerous electronics courses; individual laboratories for digital design courses; a power laboratory to support the power/energy systems classes; an RF laboratory to support electromagnetics and communication systems; and laboratories that support capstone design classes. Students participating in undergraduate research and independent study generally have access to the research laboratories of their supervising faculty member. Honors Options Available: With College Honors (Completion of Honors Core Curriculum and Departmental Honors); With Honors (Completion of Departmental Honors requirements in the major). See adviser for requirements. Research, Internships, and Service Learning: Many electrical engineering students participate every year in internship and co-op (cooperative education) programs. Career Center @ Engineering is one source for companies recruiting for internship and co-op students. The UW Career & Internship Centers also lists a variety of internship opportunities. Department Scholarships: Many scholarships specifically for electrical engineering majors and based on merit and financial need are awarded each year. Students interested in applying for these and other College of Engineering scholarships may obtain information from the Director of Academic Services. Student Organizations/Associations: The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers (IEEE), UW student chapter organizes social activities, workshops, field trips and other professional development opportunities. Eta Kappa Nu (HKN) is an invitation-only honor society for electrical engineering students. HKN organizes tutoring services, tutorial workshops, social activities, and community services projects. Graduate Programs Electrical and Computer Engineering AE100R Paul G. Allen Center for Computer Science & Engineering 206-221-5270 grad@ece.uw.edu Program of Study: Doctor Of Philosophy (Electrical Engineering) This program of study leads to the following credentials: Doctor Of Philosophy (Electrical Engineering) Doctor Of Philosophy (Electrical Engineering: Data Science) Doctor Of Philosophy (Electrical Engineering: Electrical Engineering And Nanotechnology And Molecular Engineering) Doctor Of Philosophy (Electrical Engineering: Electrical Engineering And Nanotechnology) Admission Requirements Contact department for requirements. Doctor Of Philosophy (Electrical Engineering) Completion Requirements Contact department for requirements. Back to Top Doctor Of Philosophy (Electrical Engineering: Data Science) Completion Requirements Contact department for requirements. Back to Top Doctor Of Philosophy (Electrical Engineering: Electrical Engineering And Nanotechnology And Molecular Engineering) Completion Requirements Contact department for requirements. Back to Top Doctor Of Philosophy (Electrical Engineering: Electrical Engineering And Nanotechnology) Completion Requirements Contact department for requirements. Back to Top Program of Study: Master Of Science In Electrical Engineering This program of study leads to the following credentials: Master Of Science in Electric Engineering (Data Science) Master Of Science In Electrical Engineering Master Of Science In Electrical Engineering (fee-based) Admission Requirements Contact department for requirements. Master Of Science in Electric Engineering (Data Science) Completion Requirements Contact department for requirements. Back to Top Master Of Science In Electrical Engineering Completion Requirements Contact department for requirements. Back to Top Master Of Science In Electrical Engineering (fee-based) Completion Requirements Contact department for requirements. Back to Top University of Washington Be boundless Connect with us: Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Pinterest Accessibility Contact Us Jobs Campus Safety My UW Rules Docket Privacy Terms Newsletter © University of Washington | Seattle, WA