Skip to main content Skip to main content Prospective Students Current Students Alumni More Faculty/Staff News Media Parents Skip to main content Apply Apply Give Give Follow Us Follow Us Twitter Follow Us Facebook Follow Us Instagram Follow Us LinkedIn Follow Us YouTube Follow Us Social Stream Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. Navigate Search Skip to main content Risk Management Emergency Management & Fire Safety Emergency Management & Fire Safety Emergency Management Fire Safety Environmental Health & Safety Environmental Health & Safety Occupational Safety Occupational Health Research & Education Safety Training Services International & Domestic Travel International & Domestic Travel Faculty Staff Travel Health, Safety, & Emergencies International Health & Safety Resources Student Resources Travel to a Restricted Region Risk & Insurance Risk & Insurance Incident Reporting Third Party Event Insurance Information Insurance Programs Protection of Minors Program Strategic Risk Assessment Travel University Driving Programs Resources Resources About Event Safety Topics (A-Z) Training ☰ Office of Risk Management ORM Risk & Insurance Travel Travel SMU Domestic Travel Guidelines University-sanctioned travel for students for academic and extracurricular purposes will be supported to the greatest extent possible under guidance from Dallas County, state and federal authorities and infection rates at the time of travel. Resumption and expansion of domestic travel will be phased in based on guidance from the U.S. Department of State, Centers for Disease Control (CDC), and Department of Homeland Security. Any authorized University-sponsored and/or sanctioned travel by faculty and staff for a SMU business purpose requires an approved travel request in advance of making travel arrangements, and reservations must be made using the University’s Online Travel and Expense System. Please review the Travel and Entertainment Management Policy 4.7 before booking travel. SMU is currently in Phase 4 as described below. For International Travel details, please visit the Global Preparedness & Response page. Travel Restrictions Phase 4 Phase 1 Phase 2 Phase 3 Restrictions are no longer in place for University-sponsored and/or sanctioned domestic travel. However, all travel and the risks involved should be carefully weighed. University-sponsored and/or sanctioned travel requires an approved travel request in advance of making travel arrangements, and reservations must be made using the University’s Online Travel and Expense System. Please review the Travel and Entertainment Management Policy 4.7 before booking travel. All University-sponsored travel must comply with state and local regulations in place at the destination as well as along the travel route, including guidance on face coverings, mass gatherings, and social distancing. Individual departments may provide additional restrictions, guidelines, or requirements. Any guidance provided by other applicable governing bodies, such as the NCAA, must also be followed. Please reference CDC recommendations related to domestic travel. All travelers are expected to carefully assess their health prior to travel using self-screening guidelines, and should not travel if they display any symptoms of COVID-19. Travelers should document their route and location throughout their trip in case contact tracing becomes necessary. Please note that any travel is more difficult as a result of COVID-19. Due to public health measures, travelers will likely encounter delays, difficulties, and limitations moving to and from destinations. These and guidelines are subject to change. SMU is currently restricting all University-sponsored and/or sanctioned domestic travel. Faculty and staff may request an exception by completing this form and contacting their dean, vice president, athletic director, or that supervisor’s designee for approval. Documentation of the approved exception must be attached to the travel request before supervisors can approve the travel. Exceptions should be limited to essential travel by motor vehicle only, and the risks involved should be carefully weighed. Individual departments may provide additional restrictions, guidelines, or requirements. University-sponsored travel related to official NCAA events and competitions is allowed. All University-sponsored travel must comply with state and local regulations in place at the destination as well as along the travel route, including guidance on face coverings, mass gatherings and social distancing. Any guidance provided by other applicable governing bodies, such as the NCAA, must also be followed. Please reference CDC recommendations related to domestic travel. All travelers are expected to carefully assess their health prior to travel using self-screening guidelines, and should not travel if they display any symptoms of COVID-19. Travelers should document their route and locations throughout their trip in case contact tracing becomes necessary. Please note that travel is more challenging during the current pandemic. Due to public health measures, travelers may encounter delays, interruptions and limitations moving to and from destinations. These restrictions and guidelines are subject to change. SMU is restricting University-sponsored and/or sanctioned overnight domestic travel. Faculty, staff, and students may request an exception by contacting their dean, vice president, athletic director, or that supervisor’s designee for approval. Faculty and staff may request an exception by completing this form and contacting their dean, vice president, athletic director, or that supervisor’s designee for approval. Documentation of the approved exception must be attached to the travel request before supervisors can approve the travel. Exceptions should be limited to essential travel by motor vehicle only, and the risks involved should be carefully weighed. Individual departments may provide additional restrictions, guidelines, or requirements. University-sponsored travel related to official NCAA events and competitions is allowed. All University-sponsored travel must comply with state and local regulations in place at the destination as well as along the travel route, including guidance on face coverings, mass gatherings, and social distancing. Any guidance provided by other applicable governing bodies, such as the NCAA, must also be followed. Please reference CDC recommendations related to domestic travel. All travelers are expected to carefully assess their health prior to travel using self-screening guidelines, and should not travel if they display any symptoms of COVID-19. Travelers should document their route and location throughout their trip in case contact tracing becomes necessary. Please note that any travel is more challenging during the pandemic. Due to public health measures, travelers may encounter delays, interruptions and limitations moving to and from destinations. These restrictions and guidelines are subject to change. SMU is restricting University-sponsored and/or sanctioned domestic travel by airplane. Faculty, staff, and students may request an exception by contacting their dean, vice president, athletic director, or that supervisor’s designee. Faculty and staff may request an exception by completing this form and contacting their dean, vice president, athletic director or that supervisor’s designee for approval. Documentation of the approved exception must be attached to the travel request before supervisors can approve the travel. Exceptions should be limited to essential travel only, and the risks involved should be carefully weighed. Individual departments may provide additional restrictions, guidelines, or requirements. University-sponsored travel related to official NCAA events and competitions is allowed. All University-sponsored travel must comply with state and local regulations in place at the destination as well as along the travel route, including guidance on face coverings, mass gatherings, and social distancing. Any guidance provided by other applicable governing bodies, such as the NCAA, must also be followed. Please reference CDC recommendations related to domestic travel. All travelers are expected to carefully assess their health prior to travel using self-screening guidelines, and should not travel if they display any symptoms of COVID-19. Travelers should document their route and location throughout their trip in case contact tracing becomes necessary. Please note that travel is more challenging as a result of COVID-19. Due to public health measures, travelers will likely encounter delays, interruptions, and limitations moving to and from destinations. These restrictions and guidelines are subject to change. Risk & Insurance Incident Reporting Third Party Event Insurance Information Insurance Programs Protection of Minors Program Strategic Risk Assessment Travel University Driving Programs Apply Visit School Cox School of Business Dedman College of Humanities and Sciences Dedman School of Law Lyle School of Engineering Meadows School of the Arts Moody School of Graduate and Advanced Studies Perkins School of Theology Simmons School of Education and Human Development Explore SMU Magazine Academic Calendar Events Calendar Guildhall Continuing and Professional Education Athletics Employment at SMU Campus Reporting a Bias Incident Report Sexual Misconduct Emergency Preparedness Student Life George W. Bush Presidential Center SMU Libraries Meadows Museum Tate Lecture Series Contact Us Maps and Directions Legal Disclosures © Southern Methodist University, PO Box 750100, Dallas, TX 75275 twitter facebook instagram linkedin youtube share