Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Apply Visit Give Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff Search BC.edu Links OUC Menu Main Nav OUC Contact Back Back Close People Our Work Overview Design Marketing News & Media Relations Photography Publications Social Media Guidelines Resources Social Media Fellows Social Fellows Application Humans of Boston College Humans of BC Nomination Videography Web Design & Development Digital Advertising Boston College Magazine For Journalists Overview Policies Names in the News BC Faculty Experts Lisa Sowle Cahill Andrea Vicini, S.J. Shu-Yi Oei Serazio, Michael Samuel Richardson Eric Dearing Richard McGowan S.J. Ray Madoff Jeremy Shakun Mark Bradshaw Mary Ellen Carter James Lubben John Makransky Thomas H. Groome Fishman, Donald Sienkiewicz, Matt Kevin R. Powers Lisa Goodman Noah P. Snyder John E. Ebel Anderson, James E. Grubb, Michael Can Erbil Ireland, Peter Murphy, Robert Aleksandar (Sasha) Tomic Ana M. Martínez Alemán James Repetti Diane Ring Natana J. Delong-Bas Michael Pratt Brad Harrington Zine Magubane C. Shawn McGuffey Sharlene Hesse-Biber Charles Derber Summer Sherburne Hawkins Jessica Black Theresa Betancourt Alicia Munnell Hosffman Ospino James W. Morris Mary Ann Hinsdale, IHM Richard Gaillardetz Sara Cordes Liane Young Ellen Winner Peter Gray Kay L. Schlozman Robert S. Ross Jonathan Laurence Marc Landy David Hopkins Dennis Hale James Cronin Seth Jacobs Cynthia L. Lyerly Arissa Oh James O'Toole Devin Pendas Oliver P. Rafferty, S.J. Heather Cox Richardson Alan Rogers Jane M. Flanagan Pamela J. Grace Alison O. Marshall Colleen Simonelli Patricia A. Tabloski Judith Vessey Catherine Yetter Read Sheila Tucker Mary Cronin John Gallaugher Gerald Kane Franziska Seraphim James Bernauer, S.J. Ruth Langer Robert J. Savage Hwang, Ingu Paulo Barrozo Sharon Beckman Robert Bloom Mark Brodin George D. Brown Michael Cassidy Kent Greenfield Renee Jones Daniel Kanstroom Cathleen Kaveny Joseph Liu Daniel Lyons Patricia McCoy David Olson Zygmunt Plater Brian Quinn Francine Sherman Catharine Wells David Wirth Alfred Chueh-Chin Yen Judith Clair John Fisher Henrik Hagtvedt Bradford Hudson Hristina Nikolova Elizabeth Kensinger Eva Garroutte Ann W. Burgess Karen Arnold David Blustein Henry Braun Susan Bruce Marilyn Cochran-Smith Julia DeVoy Maria Estela Brisk Andy Hargreaves Jacqueline Lerner Rebekah Levine Coley Belle Liang Rebecca Lowenhaupt Julie Paquette MacEvoy Katherine McNeill Laura O'Dwyer Mariela Páez Paul Poteat C. Patrick Proctor David Scanlon Dennis Shirley Mary Walsh Richard Kearney Alan L. Kafka Gail C. Kineke Darren Kisgen Jeffrey Pontiff Jonathan Reuter Ronnie Sadka Philip E. Strahan Dean Hashimoto David Twomey Miles, John "Jack" Nadia N. Abuelezam Chahrour, Ryan Jeffrey Cohen Hiba Hafiz Mary Ann Chirba Cal Halvorsen Leonard Kostovetsky Ali Kadivar Steven Koh Rachel Spooner Kirsten Davison Daniel Farbman Landrigan, Philip J. Krupenkin, Masha Juliet Schor Sankaran, Chandini Steinberg, Laura J. Betty Lai Nosal, Jaromir Stephen Shay R. Shep Melnick James Smith Francesco D’Acunto Bethune, Brian Ryan Williams Policies & Guidelines Overview Boston College Editorial Style Guidelines Graphic Identity System Boston College Websites Typography for Print Colors for Print Boston College Subbrands Safety Guidelines Signage Contact Close Directory A to Z Listing Search BC.edu Find pages or people Search Close Close Apply Visit Give Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close Resources Home Our Work Social Media Resources Social Media Guidelines Resources Social Media Fellows Humans of Boston College This section is intended to aid in your social media practice and implementation. Any Boston College employee who manages or oversees social media channels should join the Social Media Council Facebook Group. If you have suggestions or questions, please contact social@bc.edu Social Media Support Branding Social Media: Defined Image Sizing Photos Graphics Hashtags Twitter Preview Stay Informed When you use social channels from an official Boston College account, you are representing the BC brand and the University. The BC Social Media Team has created simple guidelines to follow to create usernames, avatars or profile icons, and background or cover images. All official University accounts should utilize the profile icons provided by the Office of University Communications. BC social media accounts should also be registered on the BC Social Media Directory. If an account is active and missing, fill out this form. Branding Starter Kit Instagram Photo: @meaganroecker Need a little more help with the social media lingo? HubSpot put together a list of social media terms and definitions. And if social media is still new to you, check out some beginner's guides: Constant Contact's Quickstarter Guide (divided by channel) Moz.com's Beginner's Guide HubSpot's Beginner's Guide to Instagram Social Media Examiner's Guide for Facebook Business for Beginners How to Get Started on Twitter Instagram Photo: @kkkbent.jpg Sprout Social’s Sizing Cheat Sheet This website is the key to all your image sizing questions. It is kept up to date and includes all social media platforms. It is important to size photos and graphics to the correct size so that audiences see the appropriate, undistorted images. Video Specs Cheat Sheet Sprout Social also created a cheat sheet for video dimentions, ratios, file sizes, formats, and length. Image & Video Sizes Infrographic Cheat Sheet SocialMediaToday created infographics for each social platform to view image and video sizes to preview within the channel bounds. Instagram Photo: @mariacire Only post images on social media that you have permission to use, including those from fans. Many times followers will send photos. It is always worth a direct message to ensure it permissible to use the media on your channel. The Office of University Communications maintains a collection of Boston College stock images available to the BC communication. BC credentials are required to login and VPN is required if off campus. The Burns Library Flckr account provides a collection of historic and interesting BC photos. If you are in need of stock images a variety of websites exist but it is imperative that you read all policies and guidelines regarding their usage. PicMonkey provides a list of sites, and the BC social media team has found Pixabay and Unsplash to have wide arrays of useful photography. Instagram Photo: @liamweir Many of us are not Photoshop gurus but graphics continue to become a growing part of the social media landscape. Here are some useful tools to make stunning social graphics (and beyond) that are easy to use: Adobe Spark (free with your Adobe login) Biteable (creates motion graphics) Canva Over Ripl Mojo (creates social stories) Instagram Photo: @j.ange1_ Hashtags (#) are used on most social networks - but most widely on Twitter and Instagram - as a way to explain or tag a message. They unite themes and topics and categorize information to make posts searchable. The use of hashtags makes your posts and accounts easier to find and share, but be weary of using too many in the same post. Too many hashtags distract your audience, may look like spam and some channels, including Twitter, may even flag it as spam. Connect with the Boston College community with the most commonly used hashtags at BC: #WeAreBC An all-encompassing phrase to reach the BC community and show off Boston College pride #bc360 User-generated content; use to be featured on the BC Instagram feed #BCAppa Follow the hundreds of BC students who spend their spring break doing service projects as part of the Appalachia Volunteers program. #BCBabies The next generation of Eagles displaying BC pride #BCEndeavor Keep connected with the Endeavor program, which works sophomores in the liberal arts to find a career path. #BCExperts Used when identifying one of our many faculty or staff who excel in their given subject area #BCHistory Used when people are talking about the University’s history #BCJobShadow Students spend their breaks with BC alumni in prospective career fields. See the results. #BCMatch When cupid strikes on the Heights #BConBreak A look at Boston College pride on display around the world (usually taken during the semester, spring, and summer breaks) #BCParents Not only providing Parents' Weekend updates and news, but also a look at what a BC parent is all about #BCPets Our favorite furry friends doning BC gear or on the BC campus #BCReunion Get all the Reunion Weekend buzz and see all happenings on the Heights when Eagles reunite #BCVentures Used when talking about one of the many BC alumni or student startups or the programming surrounding the active venture community on the BC campus #BostonCollege Any photo taken on the Boston College campus (usually used on Instagram) #EaglesforOthers A modified version of the Jesuit phrase, "men and women for others" stands as a motto to explain that social justice is a foundational element of Jesuit education worldwide. #EvertoExcel The Boston College motto derived from the sixth book of Homer's Ilia. #GassonGram Paired with photos of our iconic and beautiful Gasson Hall #BC____ Join in by welcoming BC’s newest class each year with the specific graduating year (e.g., #BC2023, #BC2024, etc.) #ForBoston Specifically used for BC Athletics posts; a nod to the fight song Instagram Photo: @a.eichler Until you hit the "Tweet" button, it is sometimes impossible to know what a link preview will look like. Or if one will show up at all. Use Twitter's Card Validator to see the preview of the link you'd like to use, including what photo will be displayed and in what proportion. If you see "Unable to render Card preview," no preview box will be displayed with your tweet. Tweet Card Validator Instagram Photo: @vecchiophotography There is a lot of information about social media out there. If you are interested in keeping up with the trends and changes, have a specific question, or are looking for vaulable insight, these blogs (some with newsletters) can provide a wealth of knowledge. Social Media Today Sprout Social's Blog Hootsuite's Blog Later.com Blog (focus on Instagram) Social Media Geekout Newsletter (not for the beginner, rather for those who love all things social) Instagram Photo: @danielle_rinaldi3 Back To Top Back To Top 140 Commonwealth Avenue Chestnut Hill, MA 02467 Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College