Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Division of Auxiliary Services Auxiliary Services Information For Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff Search BC.edu Links BC Dining Menu Main Nav What's Open? Back Back Close About Overview Meet Our Team Sustainability Culinary Innovation Employment FAQs Feedback Events Wellness Meal Plans Overview Flex Dining Plans Dining Calculator Related Links Meal Plan FAQs Events & Specials Locations & Menus Overview What's Open? Lower Live Carney's Café 129 Chocolate Bar CoRo Café & Market Eagle's Nest Hillside Café Legal Grounds Lyons Hall Stuart Dining Hall The Bean Counter The Loft at Addie's Faculty Dining Room Faculty Dining Room Reservations BC Test Kitchen BC After Dark The Market Concessions Tully Cafe Related Links Events & Specials Sustainability Order Food & Gifts Overview GET Mobile Ordering Dining to Go BC Gifts Heights Catering Luxury Boxes & Lower Lawn Close Directory A to Z Listing Search All Departments in Auxiliary Services Search BC.edu Find pages or people Search Close Close Apply Visit Give Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close Home About FAQs About Meet Our Team Sustainability Culinary Innovation Employment FAQs Feedback Events FAQs General FAQs Print Open All Close All Reserving Space and Posting Signs How do I reserve a table for my organization? Email Megan O'Neill, Associate Director of Restaurant Operations, to get approval. In your email please specify at which dining halls you would like to set up your table, on what days, and whether you would like to set up at lunch and/or dinner. When your group arrives, please have them see the manager on duty, who will provide a table and chairs ready. Reserve a table Where can I post signs? You can post signs inside McElroy, Stuart, or Corcoran with the approval of the manager. Email Megan O'Neill via the link below for approval. You can't post signs on surfaces that are glass or painted. Sign Posting Request Fundraising and Selling Items Can my organization sell items like tickets or t-shirts? You can't sell items in dining halls, but you can advertise your fundraiser through posters, flyers, etc. Approved tables are for advertising or signup purposes only. If you are trying to sell tickets or t-shirts, you can only advertise that they are for sale someplace outside of a dining hall and promote what they are for. You cannot request or accept any funds in dining halls. What kinds of fundraisers can I run? Student organizations can fundraise for service trips in the dining halls by collecting Dining Dollars. These groups need to be approved by the Volunteer and Service Learning Center. You can also raise funds through Cookies for a Cause. Student groups with the proper credentials (school sponsored with an advisor) can sign up to sell bags of a dozen mini chocolate chip cookies at late night. Students purchasing cookies can pay with their meal plans. Cookies for a Cause details: You must email Megan O'Neill with 30 words about your cause at least two weeks in advance. Locations and dates are first-come, first-served. Groups can sign up for as many nights as they would like. The sell price is $4.99, and the group will get $1 per bag. Arrive around 8:00 p.m. to bag the cookies and set up a table and register. You can set up materials to promote your group. If the cookies are not completely sold by the end of late night, Dining will sell the remainder the next day, and your group will still get the $1 credit per bag. Ask about fundraising Community Service How do I complete community service with Dining? You can perform community service during late night (8:00 p.m.–1:00 a.m.) at either Lower Live in Corcoran or McElroy. Bring your form with you so the manager on duty can sign it. ask about community service Project Interviews/Filming How do I arrange to interview Dining employees? Prepare a list of questions beforehand for approval. Some of our employees don't like to be interviewed, and we have found that if we see the questions, we can arrange interviews with the best candidates and share the questions with them so they know what to expect. Email dining about interviews How do students apply to work at BC Dining? To apply for a position, complete an application and email it to the appropriate manager on our Student Employment page. Student Employment What are the dining options on the Newton Campus? The Newton Campus houses the Stuart Dining Hall and Legal Grounds Market. Serving freshman students and the Law School, Stuart serves breakfast, lunch, and dinner. They are open the same hours as Dining halls on the main campus. Stuart has a smaller number of staff and a smaller space than dining halls on main campus, creating a more intimate feeling. All the same options available at dining halls on main campus are available at Stuart. Stuart also offers online/GET mobile ordering during all three meal periods. Meal Plan FAQs Print Open All Close All The Mandatory Residential Meal Plan How does the mandatory Residential Meal Plan work? This Meal Plan operates on a declining balance system, with each student's BC ID serving as the debit card. The mandatory Residential Meal Plan is not subsidized through tuition funds. Am I required to participate in the mandatory Residential Meal Plan? The mandatory Residential Meal Plan is required for all students living in residence halls on Upper Campus and Newton Campus, in Walsh Hall, Greycliff, 66 Commonwealth Avenue, Vanderslice Hall, 90 St. Thomas More Drive, and Stayer Hall. How do I buy the mandatory Residential Meal Plan? All first-year students and anyone living in a residence hall that doesn't have a full kitchen will be automatically billed for the mandatory Residential Meal Plan. Sign and return the Office of Residential Life-Residency Agreement in the summer. When you arrive on campus, obtain your Eagle One Card (BC ID) from the Student Services Office. Your mandatory Residential Meal Plan will be valid upon University registration approval. Does the plan cover all of my meals during the semester? The mandatory Residential Meal Plan is based upon the average BC student consumer. The flexibility we offer allows each student to customize the program to their needs. While this plan meets many students' needs, BC Dining also offers a Maroon Upgrade and a Gold Upgrade that can add funds and flexibility to individual meal plans. Can I bring guests to a meal? Yes—you may pay for guest meals with your mandatory Residential Meal Plan funds or any of your Eagle One accounts as long as you accompany your guests. Your guests may also pay with cash. Your BC ID card and the accounts on it are for your use only; no one may use another person's ID card, unless accompanied by that person. Can I replace my mandatory Residential Meal Plan with the Flex Dining Plan? You can purchase the Flex Dining Plan instead of the mandatory Residential Meal Plan only if you are not already bound by a Residential Room & Board contract that requires you to participate in the mandatory Residential Meal Plan. First-year students can't replace the mandatory Residential Meal Plan with the Flex Dining Plan. What happens if I lose or damage my ID card? Go to the Boston College Student Services Office in Lyons Hall as soon as possible. Student Services will issue a new card and reactivate your Meal Plan. Your old card will be deactivated and will no longer work at University restaurants or vending machines. You remain responsible for card usage prior to deactivation. Falsifying, altering, or misusing your own or anyone else's ID card in any way is strictly prohibited. How does BC Dining's meal plan compare to other schools? Meal Plan Comparison Funds What is the recommended amount? At $3,000 per semester, the mandatory Residential Meal Plan comes out to approximately $26 per day. Most students on the mandatory Residential Meal Plan eat two-plus meals a day with an occasional snack. While that plan meets many students' needs, BC Dining also offers a Maroon Upgrade and a Gold Upgrade that add more spending power and flexibility to individual meal plans. How do I add funds? You and your parents can add funds immediately through the Agora Portal. The University accepts e-checks (electronic withdrawal from your checking or savings account), Visa, or MasterCard. You may also charge up to $100 against your student account if your account is paid in full. What happens to my funds if I miss a meal? Your account always maintains the balance from the last transaction. Regardless of what meals you miss, your money continues to roll over until the end of the academic year. What happens to leftover funds at the end of the semester or year? Any remaining fall semester funds are carried over to spring semester in the same academic year. At the end of the academic year any remaining balance will be forfeited. Any Residential Dining Bucks and Flex Dollars you have remaining at the end of the academic year will continue to roll over until graduation—at which time you will receive a 100% refund on any balance over $5. Your mandatory Residential Meal Plan will be active until 8:00 p.m. on Commencement Day. What do I do if I run out of funds? You may purchase a Maroon Upgrade or Gold Upgrade or deposit additional funds into one of our optional Eagle One accounts. Meal plan upgrades and deposits to your Flex Plan can be made at any time during the year through the Agora Portal. Can I make a cash withdrawal from my Eagle One Card? No, your Eagle One Card is not an ATM card. You do not have the ability to withdraw cash from it. Upgrades, Flex Plans, and Eagle Bucks What is the Maroon and Gold upgrade? BC Dining offers a Maroon Upgrade and a Gold Upgrade that adds more spending power and flexibility to individual meal plans. The Maroon Upgrade includes $800 in Flex Dollars, plus a bonus $80 Flex Dollars. Students who opt for this plan typically spend approximately $34 per day. The Gold Upgrade includes $1,200 in Flex Dollars, plus a bonus $180 Flex Dollars. The plan comes out to approximately $39 per day. Flex Dollars can be used at all dining halls, specialty locations, through GET mobile ordering, concessions, and vending machines. How do I sign up for a Flex Plan or purchase Eagle Bucks? Online through the Agora Portal. What's the difference between Residential Dining Bucks, Flex Dollars, and Eagle Bucks? Residential Dining Bucks and Flex Dollars are accepted at all on-campus locations, including specialty dining locations, concessions, vending machines, and GET Mobile ordering. Opening an Eagle Bucks account increases your spending flexibility by allowing purchases at BC bookstores, residence hall laundry facilities, and a variety of off-campus retail and service locations. Sustainability FAQs Print Open All Close All Is our waste really being composted and recycled? Yes—our employees are trained to keep compost, recycling, and landfill separate when they empty bins. The waste is sent to Save That Stuff, our waste provider based in Boston. If our recycling is too contaminated, it will likely not be able to be recycled; however, most of it should be, as long as students make the effort to sort correctly. Save That Stuff can take up to 10 percent contamination in compost, so even contaminated compost is able to be processed, turned into bioslurry, and used to create renewable energy and fertilizer. What is the “Magic Wall” at Corcoran? We call the revolving waste station in Corcoran the “Magic Wall.” After you leave your waste on the conveyor belt, employees on the other side sort your waste between compost, recycling and landfill. This system allows us to have 100% of waste accurately sorted, limiting contamination. Why don’t you offer paper or compostable straws? While we looked into paper or compostable straws, they are significantly more expensive than plastic straws. Our “out of sight, out of mind policy,” which requires students to ask for a straw at the register, has resulted in significant reductions in straw use already (26 percent in just the first year). While we looked into paper or compostable straws, they are significantly more expensive than plastic straws. We encourage students to simply skip the straw, as this is always the most sustainable alternative. In addition, straws are not significantly more environmentally damaging than other forms of plastic, so we try to devote our attention to more significant sources of plastic waste. Are plastic utensils more sanitary than metal utensils? No, our metal utensils are completely sanitized when they are washed. Our dishwashers are much more powerful than one you would use at home to wash your own dishes. Always choose metal utensils when eating in the dining hall. Why aren’t reusable dishes offered at all dining halls? We offer reusable options at each of our main dining units (Lower, Corcoran, and McElroy). Unfortunately, several of our smaller units, including Eagles, Lyons, and Hillside, have limited dishwashing capability, so at this time those locations don't offer reusables. It's our goal to expand reusables as much as possible. Are the plastic utensils recyclable? No, they should go in the trash. Our new Preserve utensils are more sustainable because they are made from recycled plastic rather than virgin plastic. However they are not recyclable, and should still be discarded in the landfill. Remember, it's always more sustainable to use reusable silverware. Why shouldn’t I take reusable dishes from the dining hall? We want to provide reusable dishes and silverware for students in the dining hall, but the more dishes we lose, the less sustainable it becomes for us to keep replacing them. Making reusable dishes requires resources and emits carbon, so the more we have to keep buying, the higher our environmental footprint becomes. The best thing you can do to support our fight against disposable plastic and to help us expand the availability of reusables is to not take our dishes. Food Allergies FAQs Print Open All Close All I have a nut allergy but it is not life threatening. Is food labeled if it has peanuts/nuts? Menu items containing nuts are identified with signage in the dining halls in red font and on the online menu. Bakery items should be avoided since they are produced in our BC Bakery that also uses nuts. Boston College Dining Services uses soy, tree nuts, peanuts, eggs, dairy, shellfish, wheat, sesame, gluten-containing foods, and other potential allergens in meal preparation. BC Dining staff are trained on and aware of the severity of food allergies and celiac disease, and allergens are identified to the best of our ability. However, manufacturers change product formulation without notifying BC Dining and cross-contact is possible. Students need to be aware of risks and take responsibility for asking the manager on duty for assistance. BC Dining strongly encourages students with food allergies or celiac disease to follow the Policy for Meal Accommodations, and meet with our nutritionist. I eat a vegetarian diet. Will there be vegetarian and vegan options available in all locations? Yes, there are both vegan and vegetarian options at all open dining locations. Examples include a vegan soup daily, roasted mushroom gyros, tofu and avocado arepas, Southwestern beans and rice, tofu fried rice, and more. We have made new recipes that are vegan/vegetarian for this school year to provide those options. Additionally, there will be vegetarian and vegan options available via GET mobile at the 3 main dining halls. Lastly, if you want to stay up to date with vegan and vegetarian options, please email sweenekz@bc.edu to be put on the vegan/vegetarian elist. We always encourage feedback and communication with us, so that we can ensure you have options you enjoy! Quick Links What's Open? Today's Menu Order Food & Gifts Catering Add Funds to Dining Plan Back To Top Back To Top Contact BC Dining 129 Lake Street 3rd Floor Boston MA 02135 617-552-2263 bcdining@bc.edu Facebook Twitter Instagram About Wellness Meal Plans Locations & Menus Order Food & Gifts Events & Specials Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College