Skip to Main Content Brown University News from Brown Site Navigation Featured Events For Journalists Search Menu Topics Student Life Date June 7, 2021 2021-06-07 Media Contact Maggie Spear [email protected] 401-863-7287 All News Share Facebook Twitter Linkedin Email Rainbow Chen: Equitable, ethical education through international experience To advance education equity and policy, the Class of 2021 graduate and newly named Fulbright scholar will spend a year as an English teaching assistant in the Netherlands. Rainbow Chen, top center, played double bass and served as president of the Brown University Orchestra in 2019-20. As a newly named Fulbright scholar, Chen aims to increase access to free or low-fee classical music education in schools. Photo by Nick Dentamaro/Brown University PROVIDENCE, R.I. [Brown University] — In a year marked by uncertainty and trepidation toward the future, Rainbow Chen held fast. After graduating from Brown in May with a degree in education and history, Chen knew exactly what she would do next. “I wanted education experience,” she said, “not necessarily education research or a degree in education research or policy abroad.” An advocate for education equity and outreach since her first days at Brown, Chen was recently selected as a Fulbright English Teaching Assistant Award recipient and will soon settle in the heart of the Netherlands, where she will further her career in education policy as a teaching assistant at ROC van Amsterdam. “I personally learn best when I am talking to people,” said Chen, who hails from Winooski, Vermont. “Storytelling is a huge way I learn, along with just being in an immersive cultural environment, so I felt like Fulbright was a perfect way to combine all of those wants, needs and interests into a single year of, hopefully, an amazing experience.” Chen’s approach has always been equity-focused. As an undergraduate at Brown, Chen joined the Swearer Center’s Bonner Community Fellowship program, which matches predominantly low-income, first-generation and underrepresented students with local community organizations working in education, health care, environment, economic justice and the arts. As a fellow, she worked extensively with Youth in Action, an after-school program in Providence that supports local students of color in sharing their stories. As an educator, I’m trying to make the most of the experience and kind of connect it to my work with Swearer — trying to be more mutually cooperative and make it beneficial for both parties. Rainbow Chen Class of 2021 graduate and Fulbright scholar “As an educator, I’m trying to make the most of the experience and kind of connect it to my work with Swearer — trying to be more mutually cooperative and make it beneficial for both parties,” she said. A part of that, she said, is increasing access to music education. Chen was a double bassist in the Brown University Orchestra — and served as president in 2019-20 — and believes deeply in the transformative power of playing classical music, but acknowledges that the paywall to enter that world is quite high. As part of the community engagement project Chen will develop for her Fulbright fellowship, she aims to work with either a school of nonprofit that provides free or low-fee music lessons for low-income students. She hopes to draw on that rich experience in community engagement and development to support students at ROC van Amsterdam, the largest vocational college in the Netherlands. Her class will primarily be composed of students ranging in age from 16 to 22 who are actively seeking work in hospitality — a perfect match, Chen said, because her family owns a restaurant and she’s no stranger to the industry. The students will all have varying levels of English fluency, but Chen is particularly interested in working one-on-one with refugee and immigrant students in the class who may be trying to learn both English and Dutch as they pursue training. She knows firsthand the kinds of barriers people of color can encounter when furthering their education and careers, and how important it is to be able to work in a mentorship capacity with people dedicated to helping them succeed; in fact, Chen credits her fellowship adviser with both thoroughly preparing her for every step of the Fulbright process and allowing her to present her “true self” through the application. “The Fulbright can be very daunting to approach, especially for people who identify as first-generation, low-income or a person of color,” she said. “But people like myself can make it and can do it… there is hope.” 27 current and recent Brown student win 2021-22 Fulbright scholarships This year’s student Fulbright winners will begin teaching and research assignments in 17 countries around the world in fall of 2021. 2021-22 Fulbright Scholars at Brown Tags Awards and Fellowships Swearer Center The College Related news: Student Life Photos: Defying gravity with Brown Aerial and Acrobatics April 20, 2022 For 10 years, a student-run organization has taken to the air, delighting audiences with circus-inspired performances on trapeze, aerial silk, lyra and more. Read Article Open details for Photos: Defying gravity with Brown Aerial and Acrobatics Student Life Pawtucket native, U.S. Army veteran combines Brown education with service to community November 8, 2021 Brehan Brady — a self-described working-class kid from Pawtucket who transferred to Brown from the Community College of Rhode Island — joins other student veterans in forging a new path after their military service. Read Article Open details for Pawtucket native, U.S. Army veteran combines Brown education with service to community Student Life For senior Elvia Perez, an entrepreneurial approach to tackling educational disparities November 4, 2021 With classroom experiences across the Open Curriculum and support from the Nelson Center for Entrepreneurship, Perez built on her own experiences to launch EmpowerU, a startup that connects low-income students to higher education resources. Read Article Open details for For senior Elvia Perez, an entrepreneurial approach to tackling educational disparities Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown Social Navigation Facebook Instagram LinkedIn Snapchat Twitter YouTube Social Media Directory © Brown University Brown University For You Current Students Faculty Staff Parents & Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Featured Events For Journalists Topics Arts and Humanities Environment Health and Medicine News and Events Science and Technology Social Sciences Student Life University Initiatives Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation About Events For You Give to Brown All of Brown.edu People News Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Rainbow Chen: Equitable, ethical education through international experience Open details for Rainbow Chen: Equitable, ethical education through international experience Bookmark this Page