Skip to main content Operating Status Face coverings are optional in offices, conference rooms, research labs, housing, and public spaces in buildings. Face coverings are still required in all teaching spaces, teaching labs, computer labs, buses, libraries, clinical facilities, and student-staff and student-faculty meetings spaces. More COVID-19 information Close Search Enter a Search Term Search Rutgers Search Search this site Search all Rutgers Search People Rutgers Logo New Brunswick Newark Camden RBHS/Health Info For: Prospective Students and Parents Current Students Faculty and Staff Alumni and Donors Partners Job Seekers News Rutgers Today Rutgers Magazine Events Giving Gcse block (invisible) Open Search Rutgers Logo About Rutgers About the University President Jonathan Holloway Serving New Jersey and the World An Economic Engine A Partner in Research and Innovation United Against COVID-19 Rutgers Excellence Rutgers, By the Numbers Rutgers Rankings Budget Facts Our Structure Governance and Leadership Office of the President Administrative Council Our Revolutionary Roots Rutgers Traditional Songs The Rutgers Experience Discover Rutgers Rutgers–New Brunswick Rutgers–Newark Rutgers–Camden Rutgers Biomedical and Health Sciences (RBHS) Show Your Rutgers Pride Rutgers Athletics Uniquely New Jersey Academics Academics Overview Undergraduate Academics Explore Undergraduate Programs Graduate and Professional Studies Explore Graduate & Professional Programs Top Graduate Programs Schools and Colleges Continuing Education Online Degree Programs Catalogs Libraries Faculty Excellence Global Learning Rutgers at Your Community College Student Support Research Research at Rutgers A Partner in Research and Innovation Health & Patient Care Advancing Treatment and Wellness Admissions & Tuition About Applying Path to Rutgers Tuition and Financial Aid Visits and Tours Getting Here Open Search Open Search Open Menu Close About Rutgers About the University President Jonathan Holloway Serving New Jersey and the World An Economic Engine A Partner in Research and Innovation United Against COVID-19 Rutgers Excellence Rutgers, By the Numbers Rutgers Rankings Budget Facts Our Structure Governance and Leadership Office of the President Administrative Council Our Revolutionary Roots Rutgers Traditional Songs The Rutgers Experience Discover Rutgers Rutgers–New Brunswick Rutgers–Newark Rutgers–Camden Rutgers Biomedical and Health Sciences (RBHS) Show Your Rutgers Pride Rutgers Athletics Uniquely New Jersey Academics Academics Overview Undergraduate Academics Explore Undergraduate Programs Graduate and Professional Studies Explore Graduate & Professional Programs Top Graduate Programs Schools and Colleges Continuing Education Online Degree Programs Catalogs Libraries Faculty Excellence Global Learning Rutgers at Your Community College Student Support Research Research at Rutgers A Partner in Research and Innovation Health & Patient Care Advancing Treatment and Wellness Admissions & Tuition About Applying Path to Rutgers Tuition and Financial Aid Visits and Tours Getting Here Utility Mobile Info For: Prospective Students and Parents Current Students Faculty and Staff Alumni and Donors Partners Job Seekers News Rutgers Today Rutgers Magazine Events Giving New Brunswick Newark Camden RBHS/Health Health and Patient Care Rutgers is one of the nation’s largest and most comprehensive university centers for the study of human health. We work together, sharing insights and advances at every stage in health education and research, and in health care delivery through our clinical services arm, Rutgers Health. Shaping the Future of Human Health 2.1+ Million Annual patient visits to Rutgers Health practices 470+ Clinical trials in process 1,300+ Clinical providers working to advance top-quality health care Rutgers Biomedical and Health Sciences Rutgers Biomedical and Health Sciences (RBHS) has eight schools and seven centers and institutes focused on improving human health. Top faculty teach our exciting programs at locations in New Brunswick, Newark, and elsewhere around New Jersey. Courses of study range from undergraduate certificates to postdoctoral studies and joint degrees in medicine/pharmacy and medicine/law. Aligned with Rutgers University–New Brunswick and collaborating with scholars and researchers around the university, RBHS establishes Rutgers as one of the largest academic institutions in the United States providing health care education, research, and clinical service and care. Learn More about RBHS Helplines Rutgers University Behavioral Health Care Call Center provides access to 24/7 helplines supporting various needs. View Helpline Resources Find an Academic Program That's Right for You Explore Undergraduate Programs Explore Graduate Programs Rutgers Health Rutgers Health is New Jersey’s premier, university-based patient care provider. Through united practices, centers, and clinics, Rutgers Health emphasizes an approach to health and wellness that fully engages patients and their providers. By embracing innovative methods for treating illness and injury—approaches taught to RBHS students—Rutgers Health patients benefit from an unyielding commitment to achieve better health. Rutgers Health providers include a full range of general practice and specialty wellness services. Learn about Rutgers Health Rutgers Cancer Institute of New Jersey University Behavioral Health Care Community Health Programs How Research Benefits Our Patients Engineering “plastic” tissue. Keeping fresh-cut fruit safe from food-borne pathogens. Using mathematical modeling to spot epidemiologic trends. Rutgers people across scores of disciplines engage in research that focuses on human health. It’s one of the advantages of a large research university. Rutgers' health sciences research activity is the largest and most comprehensive in New Jersey. Our research spans the spectrum from “bench side" (laboratory) to "bedside" (direct care of people). Through research we uncover the core processes of health sciences and health care; test and develop original interventions for patient care; translate discoveries into innovations that advance health care and grow the economy; better understand relationships among basic science, patient care, and society; and prepare future generations of scientists, practitioners, and policymakers. RBHS Research Centers All Rutgers Centers and Institutes Research at Rutgers Pioneering Research Pioneering Research Martin J. Blaser Henry Rutgers Chair of the Human Microbiome and professor of microbiology Advancing Inquiry “What has become clear is that the relationship between humans and their microbiomes is a really important scientific frontier that will affect the practice of medicine. Knowledge of the microbiome is going to transform our knowledge of human health and medicine.” Transformative Work Blaser has dedicated the last 17 years of his prolific career to investigating the microbiome, which is the human equivalent of an environmental ecosystem. He is convinced that the misuse of potent antibiotics has thrown Westerners’ microbiomes out of balance. Recognition Blaser received the 2019 Robert Koch Gold Medal for his life’s work from the Robert Koch Foundation, which cited Blaser’s work on the biology of H. pylori, a bacterium found in the human stomach that causes ulcers. Find a Rutgers Health Provider Site Footer Rutgers University New Brunswick Newark Camden RBHS/Health Connect Campus Safety Contact Us Continuing Education Giving to Rutgers Graduate Admissions Undergraduate Admissions University Maps Universitywide Offices Work at Rutgers Find a Health Care Provider Rutgers Magazine University Events Academic Academic Calendars Course Catalogs University Libraries myRutgers Portal Notices April 27, 2022: Open Hearing on the University’s Tuition, Fees, and Housing and Dining Charges for 2022–2023 Commencement Information University Operating Status Accessibility Resources Budget Facts Consumer Information Disclosures Follow Us Subscribe to Rutgers News Rutgers is an equal access/equal opportunity institution. Individuals with disabilities are encouraged to direct suggestions, comments, or complaints concerning any accessibility issues with Rutgers websites to accessibility@rutgers.edu or complete the Report Accessibility Barrier / Provide Feedback form. Copyright ©2022, Rutgers, The State University of New Jersey. All rights reserved. Contact webmaster