Skip to main content Skip to site menu Skip to Brown menu Skip to site search Information For: Current Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Brown University Enter search keyword About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life A to Z Index People Directory Insurance International Travel Information International Accident & Sickness Insurance Insurance International Accident & Sickness Insurance The administration of the travel insurance policies is now handled by International Travel Risk Management in the Office of Global Engagement Brown University Study/Travel Abroad Insurance (Outbound Travelers - Traveling Overseas) Effective July 1, 2018, Brown University students, faculty and staff traveling abroad on behalf of Brown University (i.e. study abroad, research or business travel) are automatically enrolled in a blanket study/travel abroad accident and sickness insurance policyat no cost to them. If you are faced with the need to obtain medical care outside of the United States, be sure to communicate with International SOS using the phone numbers on the ID card. They will guide you to a medical provider within the plan so you will not incur any out of pocket expenses such as copays or deductibles. This accident and sickness insurance policy is not a replacement for your required health insurance. It is a supplimental policy provided free of charge to you. A summary of the benefits covered on the study/travel abroad accident and sickness insurance policy can be found here Here is a link to your International SOS 24/7 Assistance ID card. To obtain a verification of coverage letter for this policy, please email the Office of International Travel Risk Management and provide your travel dates, date of birth, and country to which you are traveling. Leisure Travel Abroad Insurance If you plan to include personal time (vacation, visiting family, non-Brown related travel, etc.) pre-trip or post- trip, you might want to consider purchasing supplemental coverage to your private health insurance to reduce co-pays, out of network expenses, etc. Gallagher partners with Seven Corners, Inc, who offers all types of personal travel insurance. Individuals can enroll and pay online. https://www.gallagherstudent.com/products/leisure-travel-insurance/. This coverage is optional, to reduce out of pocket expenses associated with your private health insurance. We suggest you contact your health insurer prior to traveling abroad, to see what coverage you have available while you are outside of the country. Accident and Sickness plan for International Participants (Inbound to Brown) Inbound scholars may enroll at www.gallagherstudent.com/brown-iss. Simply click on the ENROLL NOW link on the left side of the page, and it will prompt you to create an account and then enroll. Since you are not issued a Brown ID until you reach campus, please enter 999999999 in the 'Student ID' field when setting up your account. This enrollment form is used for both students and scholars. You will also be asked to provide a United States address when enrolling. If you do not yet have a United States address, please use the address of the department with which you are associated. All correspondence from Gallagher is via email, therefore no mail will be sent to this address. You will receive a confirmation email within 2 business days, and can log in after that to access your ID card. Premiums are based on monthly enrollment, and unfortunately cannot be prorated. If you have questions about this policy, please identify the Brown University International Student & Scholars Accident and Sickness Insurance Plan when calling Gallagher Student Health, as Gallagher services many different plans. Home Staff Workers Compensation Auto Insurance Property Insurance Insurance Requirements for Suppliers Event Insurance Request Certificates of Insurance Guidelines for Transportation Associated with Academic Field Trips Policies Purchasing Services Print this Page Share this Page Strategic Purchasing, Contracts & Insurance Brown University Box 1845 Providence, RI 02912 Phone 401-863-1703 Fax 401-863-2208 [email protected] Brown University Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-1000 Maps & Directions / Contact Us / Accessibility © 2022 Brown University Connect: [email protected] Facebook Twitter YouTube iTunes U LinkedIn SnapChat Resources A to Z Index Career Opportunities Make a Gift People Directory Insurance Resources All Insurance Forms Obtaining Certificate of Insurance Facilities Management Claims Related Offices Purchasing Services Controller's Office