Texas Tech University Directory Raiderlink A-Z Index Administration & Finance Menu Search TTU Administration & Finance Auxiliary Services Kent Meredith Executive Director emailkent.meredith@ttu.edu phone806.742.7362 United Supermarkets Arena, MS2200clear Kirk Rodriguez Managing Director emailkirk.rodriguez@ttu.edu phone806.742.1360 Hospitality Services, Box 42184 Kirk Rodriguez has a BS and MS from Texas Tech University and has been with Hospitality Services since 1993. Kirk started as a student employee with Dining Services and has held various supervisory, leadership and administrative roles within the department. He worked as the associate director of operations since 2005 and was promoted to Managing Director of Hospitality Services in the spring of 2014. clear Sean Duggan Managing Director emailsean.duggan@ttu.edu phone806.834.5326 University Student Housing MS1141 clear Jon Mark Bernal Senior Associate Managing Director emailJM.Bernal@ttu.edu phone806.742.3636 Student Union & Activities, Box 42031clear Eric Maki Managing Director emaileric.maki@ttu.edu phone806.834.5638 University Recreational Sports, MS2151clear Mario Carvajal Manager emailmailto:m.carvajal@follett.com Student Union Building 17th & Boston Lubbock, TX 79409 clear Juli McCauley Managing Director emailjuli.mccauley@ttuhsc.edu phone806.743.2848 Family Med Dpt Lbk Genl 3601 4th St, Stop 8143 Juli, a native of Lubbock, received her BA from Southwest University in Georgetown, Texas and her MPA from Texas Tech University. She began working with Student Health Services in 2000. Juli has served as Managing Director since September 1, 2017. She is proud to support the Student Health Services staff as they carry out their mission to provide compassionate, high quality and accessible healthcare to Texas Tech students. clear Dolores Harper Unit Manager emaildolores.harper@ttu.edu phone806.834.4390 University Identification, MS2035 Dolores Harper completed a Career College certificate program in accounting and attended Texas Tech University. Dolares began employment with Hospitality Services and worked with implementing the first card based meal plan system. When the University decided to implement a University ID card she worked with the startup of the program and saw it expand to over 400 card readers devices used by on and off campus students, faculty and staff. clear Patrick Albritton Assistant Vice President emailPatrick.Albritton@ttu.edu phone806.834.5298 Wiggins Annex, MS 42184 Patrick received his BS in Civil Engineering from Texas Tech University in 1996 and earned a Masters of Engineering and Environmental Management from the Air Force Institute of Technology in 2000. He retired from the United States Air Force after 25 years of service and returned to Texas Tech in 2021. He holds certifications in Business Continuity (CBCP), Project Management (PMP) and Facility Management (CFM). His responsibilities include oversight of Hospitality Services, University Student Housing, the Student Union, Student Health Services, University Recreation and the Campus Store. clear Auxiliary Services is a non-academic area of the university that extends the learning environment beyond the classroom and enhances the quality of campus life by way of quality goods and services. We are a central office home to seven internal service departments. Vision: To continually enhance campus life for every Red Raider Mission: We attract and retain a diverse community that provides the essential programs and services required for every Red Raider to achieve their highest potential Core Values: Working with Integrity and Inclusion, Being Efficient and Effective, Creating Positive Experiences Patrick Albritton is the Assistant Vice President of Auxiliary Services. View the 2020-2021 Auxiliary Services Annual Report here. United Supermarkets Arenawww.unitedsupermarketsarena.com/ The United Supermarkets Arena is a 15,000-seat multi-purpose facility that hosts a variety of entertainment and athletic events, including Texas Tech University Basketball and Volleyball, commencement ceremonies, concerts, and exhibitions Kent Meredith is the Executive Director of the United Supermarkets Arena. Hospitality Serviceswww.depts.ttu.edu/hospitality/ Kirk Rodriguez is the Senior Managing Director of Hospitality Services. We are Red Raiders feeding Red Raiders! Hospitality Services strives to provide enriching food and experiences for learning, collaboration, and growth. Hospitality Services invites you to enjoy award-winning dining choices and delicious food options all across the Texas Tech University campus. Let your appetite be your guide as you dine in a variety of food courts, retail locations, mini-markets, an all-you-care-to-eat (AYCE) option, national brands, express kiosks and Top Tier Catering. On-campus, Red Raiders have access to chef-inspired food choices such as complete meals at The Fresh Plate AYCE, and dine-in/carry-out entrées from one of the many concepts in The Market at Stangel/Murdough. The Commons offers cutting-edge food options, while quick cuisine is available at one of the Sam's Place mini-markets (plus Sam's Express kiosks) located all over campus. During summer months, Hospitality Services helps host Red Raider Orientations, conference groups, and multiple high school and college-driven student groups. Top Tier Catering features culinary excellence and impeccable service in the best venues on and around the Texas Tech Campus. From intimate to lavish, Top Tier embodies the perfect services for any occasion. Every event, from a business lunch to a grand scale wedding, is unique and requires special attention. Top Tier Catering handles every detail, starting with the culinary delights, so you can enjoy the moment and the company of your guests. Click here to see available Dining Locations and Hours. Follow campus dining on Instagram, Facebook, and Twitter @EatAtTexasTech University Student Housingwww.housing.ttu.edu/ The Senior Managing Director of Student Housing is currently vacant. University Student Housing (USH) provides on-campus housing for over 8,000 students within 19 residence hall buildings. USH staff maintain, clean, and renovate all 2.1 million square feet of these facilities. A staff of 225 full-time and 275 student staff serve residents twenty-four hours a day, seven days a week. The department offers residents academic support through Learning Communities and the Residential Tutoring program. Students can engage in leadership opportunities through in-hall residence education curriculum programs and USH sponsored student organizations. During the summer months, the department opens their doors to guests visiting the campus for conferences, camps, and other opportunities. As an Auxiliary Department, year-round operations are exclusively funded with housing fees paid by students and summer guests. Student Union & Activitieswww.depts.ttu.edu/sub/ Jon Mark Bernal is the Senior Associate Managing Director of Student Union & Activities. The Student Union Building (SUB) serves as the home for Texas Tech to come together for campus events, educational opportunities and services that enhance student development and enrich the Red Raider experience. Featuring a variety of dining concepts, student collaboration spaces, the Stars and Stripes Military and Veterans Lounge, and meeting rooms of all sizes, everyone will find a place where they are welcomed and where they belong. Student Activities and Student Activities Board (SAB) are responsible for approximately 60 free programs annually for Texas Tech University students. SAB is dedicated to planning and implementing FREE social, diverse, traditional and educational events for Texas Tech University. Traditional events include Arbor Day, Homecoming Week, RaiderGate and Tech to Town. University Recreationhttps://www.depts.ttu.edu/urec/ Eric Maki is the Managing Director of University Recreation. University Recreation is a comprehensive fitness, leisure and recreation department with world-class facilities and cutting-edge programs and services! Currently enrolled Texas Tech University students are eligible to participate in a variety of recreation programs and services designed to help strength physical and mental fitness and build community. University Recreation is not the same as joining a gym but rather enhancing the collegiate experience and creating life-long healthy behaviors. With over 244,000 square feet of recreational activity space the Student Recreation Center has a variety of exercise, fitness, and leisure opportunities for the Red Raider campus community. TTU Campus Storehttps://www.depts.ttu.edu/bookstore/ Mario Carvajal is the store manager. The TTU Campus Store is conveniently located on the West side of the Student Union Building (17th and Boston Lubbock, TX) and proudly offers a selection of textbooks, computers, course materials, and supplies that will ensure every Texas Tech student is prepared for success. Show your Raider pride all year long with our authentic assortment of collegiate apparel – including Texas Tech t-shirts, sweatshirts, gifts, hats, drinkware, gift cards and more. Student Health Serviceshttps://www.depts.ttu.edu/studenthealth/ Juli McCauley is the Managing Director of Student Health Services. Student Health Services proudly provides compassionate, high quality and accessible healthcare to Texas Tech students. The clinic is conveniently located in the Student Wellness Center facility along with our lab, radiology suite and retail pharmacy. Our outstanding clinicians provide primary care, urgent care, women's health, sports medicine, and travel health services. Our team offers integrated behavioral health services for mild to moderate conditions including anxiety, depression, and attention deficit and hyperactivity disorder. Psychiatry clinicians' office in our clinic to provide treatment for severe or more complicated mental health conditions. Student Health Services is home to the Raider Assistance Program, which provides alcohol and other drug assessment, education and treatment referrals. We support the health and wellness of Texas Tech students as they realize their full potential. Contact TTU Contact Contact TTUContact Contact TTU News News for NewsNews for News Events EventsEvents Administration & Finance Address 115 Administration Building MS 2006 Lubbock, TX 79409-2019 Phone 806.742.4250 Email vpaf@ttu.edu Texas Tech University 2500 Broadway Lubbock, Texas 79409 806.742.2011 Follow Texas Tech University Like Texas Tech University on FacebookLike Texas Tech University on Facebook Follow Texas Tech University on twitterFollow Texas Tech University on twitter Check in with Texas Tech University on FourSquareCheck in with Texas Tech University on FourSquare Subscribe to Texas Tech University on YouTubeSubscribe to Texas Tech University on YouTube Follow Texas Tech University on FlickrFollow Texas Tech University on Flickr Follow Texas Tech University on InstagramFollow Texas Tech University on Instagram Connect with Texas Tech University on LinkedInConnect with Texas Tech University on LinkedIn Contact Texas Tech UniversityContact Texas Tech University Contact Us Campus Map Jobs @ TTU Emergency Communication Center General Policy Information Public Access to Course Info Energy Management Mental Health Resources Title IX Fraud and Misconduct Hotline Online Institutional Resumes TTU System TTU Health Sciences Center TTUHSC El Paso Angelo State University Midwestern State University Statewide Search State of Texas Texas Homeland Security Texas Veterans Portal Texas CREWS SAO Fraud Reporting Open Records Requests © 2022 Texas Tech UniversityFeb 28, 2022 11:09 AM Administration & Finance A&F Areas Administration & Finance A&F Areas Back Auxiliary Services Administration & Finance A&F Areas Auxiliary Services Back Hospitality Services United Supermarkets Arena University Student Housing Student Union and Activities Recreational Sports TTU Campus Store Student Health Services Business Services Administration & Finance A&F Areas Business Services Back Accounting Services Budget & Resource Planning & Management Cash and Credit Management Services Data Management for Financial Resources (DMFR) Payroll & Tax Services Procurement Services Student Business Services Operations Administration & Finance A&F Areas Operations Back Operations Planning and Administration Grounds Maintenance Business Services Building Maintenance & Construction Utilities Services Engineering Transportation & Parking Services Safety and Security Administration & Finance A&F Areas Safety and Security Back Police Department Fire Marshal Emergency Management About Administration & Finance About Back Meet the CFO Leadership Team Vision & Mission Staff Directory Organizational Chart State Resources Administration & Finance State Resources Back TTU Reports to the State State Website Links Additional Resources TTU HomeDirectory Raiderlink A-Z Index