Search | Directories | Reference Tools UW Home > Discover UW > Student Guide UW Bothell Course Descriptions UW Tacoma Course Descriptions Glossary SCHOOL OF MEDICINE LABORATORY MEDICINE AND PATHOLOGY LABORATORY MEDICINE Detailed course offerings (Time Schedule) are available for Spring Quarter 2022 Summer Quarter 2022 Autumn Quarter 2022 LAB M 201 Medical Laboratory Science (2) Explores the field of Medical Laboratory Science covering the concepts and practices of this profession. Provides an overview of Laboratory Medicine disciplines and an examination of the impact of Medical Laboratory Science on patient care. Medical Microbiology, Forensics, Hematology, Genetics, Clinical Chemistry, and Immunohematology will be discussed. Prerequisite: CHEM 152. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: LAB M 201 LAB M 301 Introduction to Medical Laboratory Science (4) Explores Medical Laboratory Science covering concepts and practices through lecture and laboratory practice. Provides an overview of Laboratory Medicine disciplines and an examination of the impact of Medical Laboratory Science on patient care. Medical Microbiology, Forensics, Hematology, Genetics, Clinical Chemistry, and Immunohematology will be discussed. Recommended: MLS Student Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: LAB M 301 LAB M 302 Introduction to Medical Laboratory Science Laboratory (2) Laboratory coverage of the theories, concepts, and practices defining medical laboratory science as a profession. Instructional areas comprise the pre-analytical, analytical, and post-analytical components of laboratory services. Subjects include quality management, safety, regulatory and compliance, and overview laboratory techniques. Prerequisite: LAB M 201 and admisson to the MLS major Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: LAB M 302 LAB M 418 Introductory Clinical Chemistry (6) Introduces the fundamentals of instrumentation and methodology in the clinical chemistry laboratory. Limited to medical laboratory science students. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: LAB M 418 LAB M 419 Clinical Coagulation (4) Lecture and laboratory coverage of the theory of the hemostatic system, to include tests used in the diagnosis/monitoring of patients with abnormal bleeding and/or thrombosis. Instrumentation as appropriate for testing included. Quality control and quality assurance discussed. Limited to medical laboratory science students. Offered: S. View course details in MyPlan: LAB M 419 LAB M 420 Laboratory Analysis of Urine and Body Fluids (3) Lecture and laboratory covering urinalysis testing procedures and associated disease entities. Analysis of other body fluids. Methods of microscopic examination by use of bright-field, phase, and polarizing microscopy. Limited to medical laboratory science students. Offered: S. View course details in MyPlan: LAB M 420 LAB M 421 Medical Microbiology (1/6, max. 6) Lecture and laboratory coverage of human infections and diagnostic procedures used for isolation, identification, and antimicrobial susceptibility testing of the microorganisms associated with disease. Limited to medical laboratory science students. Offered: S. View course details in MyPlan: LAB M 421 LAB M 423 Clinical Chemistry (*-, max. 24) Clinical testing using automated and manual methods. Measurement of pancreatic function and intestinal absorption, renal and liver function, enzymes, electrolytes, blood gases, lipids, toxicology, urinalysis, endocrinology, and immunology. Limited to medical laboratory science students. Offered: AWSp. View course details in MyPlan: LAB M 423 LAB M 424 Clinical Microbiology (*-, max. 24) Techniques used in the diagnostic microbiology laboratory, including quality control, specimen evaluation, identification of pathogenic microorganisms, and antimicrobial susceptibility testing. Limited to medical laboratory science students. Offered: AWSp. View course details in MyPlan: LAB M 424 LAB M 425 Clinical Hematology (*-, max. 24) Clinical study of techniques used in the diagnostic evaluation of blood cells, including production, proliferation, survival, morphologic, and functional features. Assessment of proteins and cells important in hemostasis included. Quality control and quality assurance issues considered. Biomolecular techniques appropriate for evaluation of the hematologic and hemostatic systems discussed. Limited to medical laboratory science students. Offered: AWSp. View course details in MyPlan: LAB M 425 LAB M 426 Clinical Immunohematology ([1-7]-, max. 7) Lecture and laboratory covering theory of transfusion medicine and serological procedures used in the evaluation of cellular antigen systems. Principles of immunology and genetics included as appropriate for the techniques performed; screening of donor units to provide a safe product discussed. Quality control and quality assurance issues considered. Limited to medical laboratory science students. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: LAB M 426 LAB M 427 Selected Studies in Laboratory Medicine (*-, max. 24) Selected clinical study in the major scientific disciplines of laboratory medicine, to include molecular diagnostics, or pursuance of a clinical research study. Limited to medical laboratory science students. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: LAB M 427 LAB M 430 Medical Laboratory Science: Intro Clinical Hematology (5) Lecture and laboratory coverage of theoretical and practical aspects important in the evaluation of blood cells, to include their production, morphology, function, and associated pathology. Instrumentation used in testing included, as well as quality control and quality assurance issues. Limited to medical laboratory science students. Prerequisite: either LAB M 201, or LAB M 301 and LAB M 302. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: LAB M 430 LAB M 431 Clinical Immunohematology Rotation (7-) Practicum emphasizing application of knowledge and skills to perform a wide variety of basic testing routinely performed in contemporary blood laboratory and further develop discipline-specific competencies. Limited to medical laboratory science students. Offered: AWSp. View course details in MyPlan: LAB M 431 LAB M 433 Enrichment Rotation (-9) Selected practical experience emphasizing application of knowledge and skills to perform a wide variety of testing in a clinical setting and further develop discipline-specific competency in the major scientific disciplines of laboratory medicine, including hematology, clinical chemistry, microbiology, and immunohematology or pursuance of a clinical research study. Limited to medical laboratory science students. Offered: AWSp. View course details in MyPlan: LAB M 433 LAB M 435 Molecular Diagnostics for Medical Laboratory Science (3) Provides a comprehensive overview of the fundamental principles of molecular diagnostics and explores its use in the diagnosis of disease. Topics include: nucleic acid structure and function, genetics, DNA chemistry, nucleic acid isolation, amplification techniques, components of a molecular laboratory, and evaluation of controls to validate results obtained. Limited to medical laboratory science students. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: LAB M 435 LAB M 436 Molecular Diagnostics Clinical Rotation (2) Provides technical expertise, proficient clinical judgment, and a broad cognitive understanding of current molecular diagnostic practices equivalent to that expected of a career entry-level medical laboratory scientist. Prerequisite: LAB M 435; recommended: Be admitted to the MLS major and take all didactic lecture and lab courses required for the major, but specifically LAB M 435. Offered: AWSp. View course details in MyPlan: LAB M 436 LAB M 499 Undergraduate Research (*, max. 35) Specific project in clinical laboratory investigation. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: LAB M 499 LAB M 502 Laboratory Medicine Grand Rounds (1, max. 6) Grand rounds are concerned with current topics in the field of laboratory medicine. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: AWSp. View course details in MyPlan: LAB M 502 LAB M 510 Laboratory Medicine Research Conference (1, max. 6) Presentation and discussion of ongoing research and development projects by faculty, residents, fellows, and graduate students. Open to graduate students in laboratory medicine and other medical sciences. Prerequisite: permission of instructor. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: AWSp. View course details in MyPlan: LAB M 510 LAB M 520 Seminar in Organization and Management in Laboratory Medicine (3) Core course for the Master of Science degree in laboratory medicine. Prerequisite: graduate student standing in Laboratory Medicine or permission of instructor. Offered: Sp, odd years. View course details in MyPlan: LAB M 520 LAB M 521 Advanced Laboratory Hematology (1, max. 6) Lectures on diagnostic clinical hematology with emphasis on clinicopathological correlation. For laboratory medicine graduate students with special interest in diagnostic clinical hematology. Prerequisite: graduate standing and permission of instructor. Offered: AWSp. View course details in MyPlan: LAB M 521 LAB M 549 Global Laboratory Systems (1) Olusegun O. Soge Provides an overview of the role of clinical and public health laboratories in a national public health system, both in US and globally. Covers the functional components of a laboratory system and the importance of quality laboratory information on public health policy making. Topics include disease diagnosis, surveillance, outbreak response, law and regulation and how laboratory information contributes to health policy development. Offered: jointly with G H 549; Sp. View course details in MyPlan: LAB M 549 LAB M 555 Critical Thinking and Research Design in Laboratory Medicine (2) Develops critical thinking skills. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: LAB M 555 LAB M 590 P-Research Projects in Laboratory Medicine (*) Opportunity for laboratory experience on a research problem related to laboratory medicine. Students investigate areas of potential clinical importance. Projects selected from areas such as chemistry, coagulation, hematology, immunology, microbiology, virology, molecular diagnostics, and computer applications. Research goals established by instructor in discussion with student. Prerequisite: permission of instructor. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: LAB M 590 LAB M 600 Independent Study or Research (*-) Prerequisite: graduate standing in laboratory medicine. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: LAB M 600 LAB M 601 Internship (3-9, max. 9) Prerequisite: graduate standing in laboratory medicine. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: LAB M 601 LAB M 680 P-Clinical Laboratory Testing: Methods and Interpretation (*, max. 20) Joshua A Lieberman, Hamilton C Tsang Provides the third- and fourth-year medical student with the opportunity to evaluate clinical laboratory data in the clinical laboratory setting. Small group teaching using case material and actual clinical samples. (Two weeks, full time) Prerequisite: completion of Internal Medicine and Surgery Patient Care phase clerkships. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: LAB M 680 LAB M 685 P-Laboratory Case Studies for Clinical Diagnosis (4) Hamilton C Tsang, Joshua A Lieberman Clinical case presentations and discussions aimed at test selection, disease-induced alterations, efficient algorithms, factors confounding interpretation, testing economics. (Two weeks, full-time). Prerequisite: completion of required clerkships. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: LAB M 685 LAB M 699 P-WWAMI Laboratory Medicine Special Electives (*, max. 24) By special arrangement for qualified students, special clerkships or externships may be available at institutions other than the University of Washington located within the WWAMI region. Prerequisite: permission of department. View course details in MyPlan: LAB M 699 LAB M 700 Master's Thesis (*-) Credit/no-credit only. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: LAB M 700 Office of the University Registrar registrar@uw.edu Modified: May 30, 2022