Skip to main content MyUW Calendar Directories Libraries UW Medicine Maps UW News Helpful Links Computing/IT ISC/Workday Husky Card UW Bothell UW Tacoma UW Facebook UW Twitter University of Washington University of Washington Students Parents Faculty & Staff Alumni Quick Links Home About The Innovation Imperative FAQ Funding opportunities Roundtable Contacts Programs Buerk Center for Entrepreneurship Global Innovation Exchange Colleges and schools UW Medicine Incubators and accelerators Internships and fellowships Find a mentor Classes and clubs Events Upcoming events Autumn Quarter Winter Quarter Spring Quarter Ongoing events Spaces Makerspaces CoMotion Labs GIX Prototyping Labs Other facilities Startups Startup portfolio Success stories Investment and licensing opportunities Work with UW Innovation events at the UW Upcoming events Browse featured events happening at the University of Washington throughout the academic year. Fundamentals for Startups April/May 2022 Fundamentals for Startups April/May 2022 View event × Fundamentals for Startups April/May 2022 CoMotion Labs presents a weekly series featuring notable experts who share startup-related information, experience, and wisdom with our entrepreneurial community. Event page Undergraduate Research Symposium May 20, 2022 Undergraduate Research Symposium May 20, 2022 View event × Undergraduate Research Symposium May 20, 2022 The Undergraduate Research Symposium is an opportunity for undergraduates to present what they have learned through their research experiences to a larger audience. It is also a space for students, faculty, and the community to discuss cutting edge research. Event page Dempsey Startup Competition April/May 2022 Dempsey Startup Competition April/May 2022 View event × Dempsey Startup Competition April/May 2022 The Dempsey Startup Competition, organized by the Buerk Center for Entrepreneurship, provides a real-world experience for student entrepreneurs, promoting student ideas and new venture creation to the entrepreneurial community. Event page Autumn Quarter CoMotion DubPitch offers UW startups and project teams the opportunity to pitch their ideas to potential investors. BYOB: Build Your Own Business – Autumn/Winter Quarter Students from any major have the opportunity to pitch an idea and receive feedback from peers and experienced mentors. DubHacks – October The biggest student Hackathon in the Pacific Northwest is back, turned virtual this year! Create alongside the brightest students in the world as you put your pen to paper and bring your technological imaginations to life. PNW Startup Showcase & Social – October This non-competitive, tradeshow-style event is designed to highlight startups that were created at the University of Washington. “Business Case in 60 Seconds” Pitch Competition –November Sponsored by the Entrepreneur and Venture Capital Club, this pitch event is a great way for students to connect with alumni and experienced entrepreneurs that have the resources to help turn their idea into reality. Good ideas will win cash prizes! CoMotion DubPitch – November and May Get an insider view of what is happening at CoMotion. This is an exclusive opportunity for UW researchers, startup companies, CoMotion Labs members, and Innovation Gap Fund winners to pitch potential investment opportunities. GIX launch project presentations/poster session – December In collaboration with the GIX Consortium, including companies such as Microsoft, T-Mobile, Vulcan, and more, graduate students form interdisciplinary teams to develop high-impact projects that address local and global challenges. Winter Quarter The Hollomon Health Innovation Challenge is an exciting competition that gives students the opportunity to come up with meaningful solutions to big health challenges. BYOB: Build Your Own Business – Winter Quarter Students from any major have the opportunity to pitch an idea and receive feedback from an experienced mentor and their peers. NSF I-Corps Customer Discovery Program – Winter/Spring For those with an idea that may have commercial potential, this program teaches skills to take ideas to market. Opportunity to win $2,500. Participants must be affiliated with a higher education or research institution in the Pacific Northwest. Science & Technology Showcase (STS) Competition – January The STS is presented by UW SEBA and the Buerk Center. Undergraduate and graduate students with science or technology-based ideas that have commercial potential are invited to participate in this judged poster session. BECU FinTech Incubator competition – March BECU, in partnership with CoMotion, holds an annual Fintech Incubator Competition with the goal of identifying talent with promising technologies to join the incubator located in StartUp Hall. Hollomon Health Innovation Challenge (HIC) – March This prototype competition gives students the opportunity to come up with meaningful solutions to big problems the world faces today related to health. The HIC is open to undergrads and grad students at accredited colleges and universities across the Cascadia Corridor. Spring Quarter The Engineering Innovation in Health Spring Symposium highlights the culmination of work in this intensive, three-quarter design sequence. Alaska Airlines Environmental Innovation Challenge (EIC) – April For the EIC, interdisciplinary student teams define an environmental problem, develop a solution, design and build a prototype, create a business plan, and pitch to 200+ judges at a demo-day event. Open to students from colleges throughout the Cascadia Corridor. Dempsey Startup Competition – April/May This new venture event provides a real-world experience for student entrepreneurs, promoting student ideas and startup creation to the entrepreneurial community. Students learn venture creation by developing an idea, putting together a founding team, writing a business plan, and presenting to investors. Open to students from colleges throughout the Cascadia Corridor. Husky AI Hackathon – May Join students across the UW to hack AI-driven business ideas for a post-COVID world. Hosted by the Foster Tech Club. Information School (iSchool) Capstone Sessions – May Students in the iSchool identify an information problem/need, develop the approach and methods needed to address the problem, conduct the research and present the findings. This Capstone event gives students the opportunity to present their projects to faculty, friends, family, colleagues, and sponsors as well as a panel of judges to be considered for a number of awards. Undergraduate Research Symposium – May Undergraduates present what they have learned through their research experiences, and in turn the event provides a forum for students, faculty, and the community to discuss cutting edge research topics and to examine the connection between research and education. CoMotion DubPitch – twice a year, November and May Get an insider view of what is happening at CoMotion. This is an exclusive opportunity for UW researchers, startup companies, CoMotion Labs members, and Innovation Gap Fund winners to pitch potential investment opportunities. College of Engineering Industry Capstone Showcase – June The Industry Capstone Showcase brings together UW students and companies to tackle real-world, multidisciplinary engineering problems. Student teams spend two quarters working through a full cycle design process and present their work in this final showcase. Engineering Innovation in Health (EIH) Spring Symposium – June The EIH program promotes interdisciplinary collaboration between engineering and the health sciences with the goal of developing technical solutions to pressing challenges in health care. This Symposium highlights the culmination of work in this intensive, three-quarter design sequence. Human Centered Design & Engineering (HCDE) Capstone Showcase – June The HCDE Capstone Showcase welcomes students, future students, alumni, Corporate Affiliates Program members, and friends to view the Capstone Projects from graduating HCDE bachelor’s and master’s students. Ongoing events Fundamentals for Startups Friday takes place in Fluke Hall and features entrepreneurial experts from around the region on a variety of topics. CoMotion “Fundamentals for Startups” – Weekly during academic year A weekly series featuring notable experts who share startup-related information, experience, and wisdom with our entrepreneurial community. Open to the public. AboutProgramsClasses/ClubsEventsSpacesStartupsWork with UW University of Washington Be boundless Connect with us: Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Pinterest Accessibility Contact Us Jobs Campus Safety My UW Rules Docket Privacy Terms Newsletter © 2022 University of Washington | Seattle, WA