Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu University Campus School About Apply News Events Parents Research Contact Us Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact Learn more about Campus School Promoting excellence in teaching and enthusiasm for learning We're here to help! View our Campus School Directory Coming Up at Campus School Stay up-to-date with news and upcoming events Special thanks to our Parent Network! Parents: Learn how you can get involved PreviousNext Take Action Upcoming Events University Schools Contact Us Follow Campus School Online Facebook Home Campus School Campus School | A Blue Ribbon School Take a virtual tour of Campus School and learn more from students, parents, and faculty on why they love Campus School! Promoting excellence in teaching and enthusiasm for learning Campus School is a laboratory school which promotes excellence in teaching and enthusiasm for learning. Through integration of research into an innovative curriculum, the school can offer its best to aspiring teachers and to the urban community it serves. A diverse school population allows for valuable relationships and collaborations -- educational, cultural, social, and personal -- among the stakeholders who are involved. Teachers, students, and parents working together can maximize outcomes to the benefit of all involved. Learn more about our methods > COVID-19 Guidelines In accordance with the most current CDC recommendations Campus School has developed COVID guidelines for the 2021-2022 school year. This is a living document that will be monitored and re-evaluated as deemed necessary based on CDC, Shelby County Health Department, State of Tennessee, University of Memphis guidelines and Campus School transmission rates. Parents and stakeholders will be notified of any changes to this policy. Download the complete COVID-19 Guidelines > Campus School has been been awarded as a National Blue Ribbon School for academic achievement by the U.S. Department of Education! Read more about the designation > Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 5/11/22 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.