By continuing to use this site, you agree to the use of cookies in accordance with our privacy policy. Dismiss Stay Safe The official source of public health information for Syracuse University. Skip to Content Open menu About Admissions Academics Life Athletics More Search the University Open search Popular searches Close menu Home About Toggle dropdown Leadership Vision & Mission Consumer Information Facts & Figures Plan Your Visit Campus Map History News Partnerships Work at Syracuse Social Media Bookstore Brand Help & Contacts Admissions Toggle dropdown Undergraduate Graduate Online Part-Time Cost & Aid Request Information Visit & Tour Apply Academics Toggle dropdown Schools & Colleges Undergraduate Majors & Minors Graduate Degrees Online Programs Syracuse University Global Study Abroad Opportunities & Support Calendars Departments Research Centers & Institutes Libraries, Collections & Galleries Academic Administration Life Toggle dropdown Accessibility & Diversity Campus Highlights Events Calendar Services & Support Meals & Dining Housing Groups & Activities Recreation & Facilities For Students For Veterans & Military For Faculty & Staff For Parents & Families A-Z Index Sitemap Login Athletics Men’s Sports Toggle dropdown Basketball Cross Country Football Lacrosse Rowing Soccer Track and Field Women’s Sports Toggle dropdown Basketball Cross Country Field Hockey Ice Hockey Lacrosse Rowing Soccer Softball Tennis Track and Field Volleyball Athletics Dept. Toggle dropdown Facilities Staff Directory Academic Honors Community Service Spirit Program Varsity Club Sports Medicine Championships Fan Zone Toggle dropdown Dome Schedule Seating Information Orange All Access Otto’s Kids Club Game Photos Promotions Orange Club Schedules News Alumni About Toggle dropdown Notable Alumni Alumni Association Awards News Events and Clubs Toggle dropdown Orange Central Northeast Midwest South West World/Affinity Regions Toggle dropdown Atlanta Boston Chicago Los Angeles Middle East New York San Francisco Washington, DC Services Toggle dropdown Career Network Generation Orange Directory Profile Class Notes Giving Contact Contact Visit Apply Coronavirus Updates Forever Orange Home About Community Engagement In this Section Partners Contact Us Request Meeting Space Programs and Resources Who We Are Community Engagement Building collaborative, rewarding relationships both on and off campus. Community engagement facilitates the creativity and discovery that is essential to academic excellence. It also ensures that the University contributes to the vibrancy and sustainability of the communities that encompass it. The Office of Community Engagement provides students, faculty and staff with authentic engagement opportunities that allow them to interact with the world around them. Whether your goal is to partner with the University, conduct research, serve in the community or meet a curricular need, there are many opportunities to get involved and make a difference. Featured Program: Thursday Morning Roundtable This weekly civic engagement program features experts speaking on local, state and national issues of concern to the Central New York community. The Thursday morning meetings, held during the academic year, feature a presentation about an issue or topic of general interest. After each presentation, the speaker holds a question-and-answer session. WCNY-FM, 91.3, broadcasts the programs on the following Sundays at 8 p.m. Watch videos of Thursday Morning Roundtable sessions Subscribe to Thursday Morning Roundtable emails Please include "Subscribe to TMR emails" in the subject line. Go Local Career and Vendor Fair Syracuse University is hosting a Career and Vendor Fair in the OnCenter Convention Center Ballroom on Thursday, April 28, from 3 to 6 p.m. as a part of our Go Local initiative. This event is free and open to the public. The Career and Vendor Fair is a forum for local business owners to meet with University purchasing managers to identify opportunities for their business to meet University needs. It is also an opportunity for local residents to apply for one of the hundreds of full-time and part-time job openings at SU. Local organizations will also be represented. Registration is open now if you would like to attend. Contact us at golocal@syr.edu if you have questions or would like more information. Programs and Resources Link We offer a multitude of programs for students, faculty, staff and community members alike. Find a program where you can get involved. Events Link Join the local and campus community by attending one of our sponsored events. Partners Link Strong collaborators—our partners both on and off campus—make our work possible. Find out who they are, what they do and how you can participate. Living Here The University offers ownership incentive programs, rental resources, transportation options and more to enhance the quality of life for residents. Safety and Security Syracuse University is committed to providing a safe environment for its students, staff and faculty. Be a Good Neighbor Find helpful information on housing codes, trash removal, parking, neighborhood organizations and more. Also of Interest Link Helpful Links Link Request Meeting Space Link Who We Are Link Contact Us Link About the City of Syracuse Link Popular Toggle dropdown Academic Calendar Campus Map Careers Libraries Majors and Minors Visit and Tour A-Z Toggle dropdown Academic Departments Schools and Colleges Sitemap Search Contact Toggle dropdown Admissions Financial Aid Emergency Contacts Human Resources Make a Gift Login Toggle dropdown MySlice Blackboard SUMail Syracuse University 900 South Crouse Ave. Syracuse, NY 13244 Phone: +1.315.443.1870 Follow S.U. on Instagram Like S.U. on Facebook Follow S.U. on Twitter Follow S.U. on LinkedIn Follow S.U. on Tiktok Subscribe to S.U. on YouTube © Syracuse University. Knowledge crowns those who seek her. Accessibility Accreditation Emergencies Privacy