Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Division of Student Affairs Student Affairs Information for Employers Faculty and Staff Alumni Search BC.edu Links Career Center Menu Main Nav Career Center Meet With a Career Coach Back Back Close About Overview Meet Our Team Student Employment Contact and Visit Us Meet with a Career Coach Learning Outcomes Career Clusters Overview Career Exploration Business, Consulting, and Finance Communication, Arts, and Media Education, Nonprofit, and Social Service Government, Law, and Public Policy Healthcare and Nursing Science, Technology, and Engineering Jobs and Internships Overview Be Career Ready Internships Jobs Resumes Cover Letters Online Presence Networking Interviewing Evaluating an Offer and Salary Negotiation Graduate School Overview Applying to Graduate School Law School For Current Graduate Students Events and Programs Overview Event Calendar Careerfest Endeavor Schedule of Events Endeavor Fellows Endeavor Keynote Endeavor FAQs Information for Alumni Envision Designing Your Career Course Alumni Job Shadow Program Career Fairs and Networking Events Campus Recruitment Eagle Intern Fellowship Career Closet Praxis Summer Program Winter Break Challenge Illumination Awards Outcomes Resources Overview Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Handshake Guide Eagle Exchange Guide Meet With a Career Coach Close Directory A to Z Listing Search BC Career Center Search BC.edu Find pages or people Search Close Close Apply Visit Give Employers Faculty and Staff Alumni BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close Eagle Intern Fellowship Home Events and Programs Eagle Intern Fellowship Events and Programs Event Calendar Careerfest Endeavor Envision Designing Your Career Course Alumni Job Shadow Program Career Fairs and Networking Events Campus Recruitment Eagle Intern Fellowship Career Closet Praxis Summer Program Winter Break Challenge Illumination Awards Fund Your Unpaid Internship The Eagle Intern Fellowship provides financial support to Boston College undergraduates with demonstrated financial need who obtain summer internships with organizations that are not able to provide a salary. By eliminating financial barriers, this program provides an opportunity for you to explore your career interests and experience the world of work. Before you begin to apply: Only students who have been designated by Boston College as needing financial aid are eligible for the Eagle Intern Fellowship. If you have questions about your financial aid status, please visit the Financial Aid office page to view the options for getting your questions answered. Details Dates Summer 2022 Class Years First Years, Sophomores, and Juniors Majors/Schools All Welcome How to Apply Application Closes May 2, 2022 Apply Now Overview The Eagle Intern Fellowship is a monetary stipend to support the unpaid summer experiences of students with demonstrated financial need. For summer 2022, stipends will vary in size depending on each students' financial need (as determined by the Boston College Financial Aid office) and the total hours you will work at your internship. 2022 Eagle Intern Fellowship Grant Financial Aid Status: High Need Financial Aid Status: Medium Need Financial Aid Status: Low Need Total Hours Worked at Internship is 350 or more $4000 $3500 $2500 Total Hours Worked at Internship is Between 300 and 349 $3500 $3000 $2000 Total Hours Worked at Internship is Between 250 and 299 $3000 $2625 $1750 Selected Eagle Intern Fellows also receive: Individualized career coaching throughout the summer to help you make the most of your internship and connect your experience to future career goals An opportunity to present about your experience to the Boston College community By participating in the Eagle Intern Fellowship program, you will be able to: Identify at least one skill you hope to incorporate into your career paths that aligns with the skills employers are seeking in recent college graduates. Connect the skills, interests and values you are gaining at Boston College to specific opportunities of interest. Articulate how you will become a person for others in your career field of interest. Articulate 1-3 next steps in your career discernment and planning. Key Dates: Application Opens: January 18, 2022 Deadline One: February 28, 2022 Deadline Two: April 4, 2022 Deadline Three: May 2, 2022 Request Info Application Information Print Deadlines Early Deadline February 28 Regular Deadline April 4 Final Deadline May 2 How to Apply Before you begin You must secure an unpaid internship offer prior to applying to the Eagle Intern Fellowship Review the eligibility requirements to ensure you are eligible to apply Note that you may only apply to one deadline and no late submissions will be accepted Submit a complete application To apply, you will need to submit the following items: Online application and essay questions Letter of recommendation - strongly recommended but not required Official offer letter Resume Dates Application Opens: Tuesday, January 18, 2022 Deadline 1: Monday, February 28, 2022, 11:59 p.m. EST Deadline 1 Application Decision Notification Date: Monday, March 14, 2022 Deadline 2: Monday, April 4, 2022, 11:59 p.m. EST Deadline 2 Application Decision Notification Date: Tuesday, April 19, 2022 Deadline 3: Monday, May 2, 2022, 11:59 p.m. EST Deadline 3 Application Decision Notification Date: Friday, May 13, 2022 The difference between the deadlines Deadline 1 provides an opportunity for students to potentially secure funding for their unpaid internship if they obtain their internship early on in the spring semester. If you apply and are not awarded the fellowship in the Deadline 1 process, you cannot re-apply to another deadline process. Applicants who do not submit complete applications (e.g. missing a resume, etc.) by Deadline 1 will be automatically folded into the Deadline 2 applicant pool, so long as they submit all outstanding documents. Suggested Timeline Fall Semester Make an appointment with a career coach to get help launching your internship search. Work on your resume, you will need a strong resume to both secure an internship and apply for the Eagle Intern Fellowship. Depending on hiring timelines of your industry of interest, begin applying to internships. Request a letter of recommendation from a faculty member or supervisor. Spring Semester Apply to organizations of interest and secure an internship. Use Handshake and our Internships page, and get assistance at the Career Center during drop-in hours or via an appointment with a career coach Compile your application materials: Secure a formal offer letter from the organization. Request a letter of recommendation or confirm that your reference completed the letter. Provide your reference with information about how to properly submit the letter by the deadline. Submit your application by the deadline. No late applications will be accepted. Eligibility Requirements Below are the eligibility requirements for the 2022 Eagle Intern Fellowship. Please review in full prior to applying. For questions, contact the Career Center via email at career.center@bc.edu. Student Eligibility Students must be identified by the BC Financial Aid office as having "financial need" (Low, Medium, or High). If you have questions about your financial aid status, please visit the Contact page for the Financial Aid office to view the options for getting your questions answered Open to undergraduates in good academic standing with the university and must be matriculated in both the spring semester before and fall semester after the internship (seniors graduating in May 2022 are ineligible). Students studying abroad are considered actively enrolled. Students may only submit one application to one deadline for consideration. Students who have previously been awarded the Eagle Intern Fellowship from the Career Center are not eligible. Students are ineligible if they are receiving any other BC funding for this summer. If selected for the program, you will be required to complete any and all requirements for the Eagle Intern Fellowship Program which may include: Attend a one-on-one pre-internship meeting with your career coach to discuss how to make the most of your internship Complete mandatory check-ins with your career coach during the summer Actively participate in the Praxis Summer Program Present about your experience to the Boston College community Complete a pre- and post-internship survey Internship Eligibility Available to qualifying students working unpaid internships for summer 2022, for a minimum of 250 hours for at least 6 weeks. Note: If you are unable to complete what is required of you, it is your responsibility to immediately notify the Program Coordinator in the Career Center via email (career.center@bc.edu). Please Note: Failure to complete all requirements will negatively affect your compensation and will result in discontinuation of your disbursement until such missing requirements are complete. In addition, you will lose Career Center privileges such as access to your Handshake account. Please remember the BC values and ideals that have been instilled in you. Only off-campus internships are eligible for Eagle Intern Fellowship funding. On-campus internships with Boston College faculty or staff do not qualify. Internships must be unpaid. However, you may receive from your internship organization up to $500 in total compensation, including, but not limited to, monetary, transportation, food, gas, and housing and still be eligible to apply. Note: This does not restrict students from pursuing other paid work experiences to supplement their living expenses over the summer beyond their internship. To ensure this is a meaningful experience, the internship must include established learning goals and supervision from an organization’s staff member on site. This should be demonstrated on your offer letter from your internship organization; see the sample offer letters here. Remote or hybrid internships are eligible. All internships must still conform to the requirement that students work at least 250 hours over at least six weeks. Likewise, students should still be communicating consistently with their internship supervisor(s) to assess progress on their goals and responsibilities. Independent and / or unsupervised internships will not be considered. Internships at student-run start-ups and companies will not be considered. A member of the applicant’s family cannot run or have a substantial management interest in the host organization nor serve as the applicant’s supervisor directly or indirectly. If you’ve previously worked at the same site for which you are currently applying for funding, you must clearly explain how the responsibilities of this new internship position are significantly different from your previous position. Funding will not be granted for an internship that you have already done. Pay-to-participate international or domestic internship programs coordinated through third-party vendors will not be eligible for funding (programs in which you pay a fee to complete an internship). The internship must be unpaid and in compliance with the U.S. Department of Labor’s Fact Sheet #71: Internship Programs Under The Fair Labor Standards Act. FAQs Who is eligible to apply? Open to all rising sophomores, juniors, and seniors (graduating in 2025, 2024, or 2023) who have been identified by the BC Financial Aid office as having "financial need" (Low, Medium, or High). Students must be in good academic standing with the university and must be matriculated in both the spring semester before and fall semester after the internship (seniors graduating in May 2022 are ineligible). Students studying abroad are considered actively enrolled. What is the difference between Deadline 1, Deadline 2, and Deadline 3? Deadline 1 provides an opportunity for students to potentially secure funding for their unpaid internship if they obtain their internship early on in the spring semester. If you apply and are not awarded the fellowship in the Deadline 1 process, you cannot re-apply to another deadline process. Applicants who do not submit complete applications (e.g. missing a resume, etc.) by Deadline 1 will be automatically folded into the Deadline 2 applicant pool, so long as they submit all outstanding documents. Can I apply to more than one deadline? No. How are applications scored? The Eagle Intern Fellowship is a highly selective opportunity, and students will be screened and chosen to receive the fellowship based upon the following criteria: Strength and quality of responses to application questions Strength and quality of resume Strength and quality of offer letter from hiring organization detailing supervisor's name and learning goals, responsibilities, timeline of experience, number of hours While a letter of recommendation is not required, a strong letter of recommendation can add important information about your qualities and your accomplishments. We strongly recommend you submit a letter of recommendation from a BC faculty member, staff member, or former/current work supervisor How much funding will I receive? The amount of funding depends upon the level of financial need as determined by the Office of Financial Aid and the total hours of the internship. See the Overview section above for details. What if I am not awarded the Eagle Intern Fellowship? Are there still options to secure funding? Yes, but they will not be through the Career Center. There are several ways to proceed. Research opportunities offered by different offices across campus that offer forms of unpaid internship funding: Winston Center for Leadership and Ethics Student Grants Clough Center for the Study of Constitutional Democracy Civic Internship Grants African and African Diaspora Studies Amanda V. Houston Traveling Fellowship The Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. Internship Grant for Unpaid Internships Institute for the Liberal Arts Council for Women at Boston College Colloquium Fellowship Research external funding opportunities at scholarship repositories like FastWeb and Unigo. Connect with academic departments, faculty, student organization, and your professional network to explore alternative funding sources. Can I do two separate internships that equal the required length and number of hours? No. The Eagle Intern Fellowship is designed to fund a single internship at an organization providing an opportunity to learn about and explore your career related goals. The benefit of one internship is that it fosters a deeper learning experience, commitment, and supervisory relationship between the intern and organization. Please note: You would not be restricted from pursuing other paid work experiences to supplement their living expenses over the summer beyond their internship. What if I don't have an internship secured by the deadline? We do not accept partial or late applications. You must submit a completed application by either two deadlines. While we would love to extend the deadline even further, we know students who have secured an internship are waiting to find out if they have received funding before accepting their internship offer. Many employers are willing to expedite their decision-making process if they are aware that you are applying for funding from Boston College. You should follow up with the organization to indicate your timeline. Please note: All application materials must be submitted by the deadline, regardless of circumstances. Applicants who upload “place-holder” offer letters or letters of recommendation in order to submit the actual documents after the deadline will not have their applications considered. It is up to you to ensure that you and your internship organization are able to provide all necessary materials on time. Can I still apply if my internship meets the hour requirement, but is less than 6 weeks? The minimum requirements for the Eagle Intern Fellowship are to complete 250 hours for at least 6 weeks by the end of summer 2022. While your internship could be more than 6 weeks, it cannot be shorter. What if I am studying abroad in the spring? Students who are living abroad in spring 2022 are welcome to apply. The application process is all online through MyBC and allows flexibility of the student’s geographic location. If you are selected as an Eagle Fellow, we will work with you to obtain your pre-internship information and your disbursement. You can log into your Handshake account and schedule a virtual career coaching appointment with any specific questions. What does a successful application look like? A successful application will show that the applicant has reflected on how this internship opportunity will allow them to grow and better understand their professional skills and their career interests. Successful applications will also be clear: they will articulate the importance of their internship to their career goals and discernment and the skills they will develop during the internship. Successful applications will also have a strong resume, a strong letter of recommendation, and a clear offer letter from the organization. Who can write my letter of recommendation? Generally, a letter of recommendation should be a person who can speak to your skills, interests and experience, which may include an employer or supervisor, faculty or staff. Letters of recommendation should not be written by a peer (i.e. another undergraduate student) or a member of the applicant’s family. Can Career Center staff provide assistance on the Eagle Intern Fellowship application? Yes, we are here to help! If you have any remaining questions please schedule a career coaching appointment, visit us during drop-ins hours, or email career.center@bc.edu for any further assistance. Application Resources Sample Letter of Recommendation Sample Offer Letter 1 Sample Offer Letter 2 Application Grading Rubric Criteria Percentage Ideal Submission Career Exploration & Preparation 25% Student clearly and strongly articulates and provides clear examples of the steps they took, experiences that helped them discover their interest in this career field, resources they utilized; and showcased additional preparation for their application to the internship. Articulation of Career Interests and Organizational Fit 25% Student clearly and strongly articulates why they decided to pursue an internship at this organization by providing examples of any of the following: connection of the organization's mission with student's goals; anticipated professional development opportunities; internship tasks and responsibilities that will provide insight into the career field; etc. Skills 20% Student strongly and clearly articulates how the internship will help them develop the skills chosen with details and specific examples. Strong work-related examples are provided. Resume 10% Professional-looking resume tailored to the industry and job; excellent use of industry language. Resume does not exceed 1-page and contains all necessary sections (header, education, experience, and +1 supplement section). Detailed but concise articulation of experiences through bullet points. No grammatical errors. Format is consistent and easy-to-read. Offer Letter 10% Evidence of very strong communication between supervisor and student around goals of the internship. Details responsibilities of the internship along with evidence of supervision and support. Specific dates and time commitment confirmed. Letter of Recommendation 10% Outstanding letter of recommendation indicating flexibility, maturity, and readiness. Specific details are expanded upon and strong evidence of relationship referenced. Application Tips from Past Eagle Fellows Learn more about how to build a strong application from our past Eagle Fellows View All Tips “My main piece of advice is to be honest. The questions are asking about your level of need so definitely do not be embarrassed to express any familial difficulties and why you need the stipend.” Tallulah Manalo-LaManna, CSOM ‘22, 2020 Eagle Fellow, SuitUp “Write with clarity and maturity. The reader should have a crystal clear understanding of what you’ve done, where you want to go, and how this upcoming summer can help you get there.” Gabriella Haedelt, MCAS ‘21, 2019 Eagle Fellow, U.S. House of Representatives “Be sure to clearly convey the opportunities for growth in your position…Think about the broad skills you have the opportunity to acquire and grow.” Marissa Spletter, CSOM ‘22, 2020 Eagle Fellow, Equal Innovation “I couldn’t have done this internship without the Eagle Intern Fellowship. What [the Career Center does] for us is amazing. I really couldn’t have stayed here in Boston and built the connections I have now without their support.” 2018 Eagle Intern Fellow Matthew Alvarado '20, Interned with Big Brothers Big Sisters of Massachusetts Bay; offered full-time position after graduation Meet Past Eagle Fellows Meet a few of our past fellowship recipients who interned across the country and globe in industries ranging from medical research to federal government to magazine publishing. 2020 Recipients Name Organization Asa Ackerly Nature Conservancy of California Josue Aguiluz Alan Khazei Internship Emma Alai Children's Hospital of Philadelphia Rihana Ali The Institute for Eastern Africans on Higher Education Jung An Language Connections Reginald Anadio The National Committee on U.S.-China Relations Jessica Andrade Cooper Law Offices J'Saun Bastien Campus Abuzz Kayla Brandt The Public Interest Network Alberto Cabrera Boston Court Service Center Alex Capozziello Ohza Claire Caroli Immigration Equality Ryan Cassidy Joe Kennedy for Senate Sophia Chryssofos Children's Hospital of Philadelphia Katie Dagle Byrne Lab at UMASS Medical School Heather Davis Leukemia and Lymphoma Society Lauren Deep International Institute of New England Jessica Delrey-Mejia Phil Smith Neuroscience Institute Alinda Dersjant Phycom Elizabeth DiSanto Environment America Berlindyne Elie Montfleur Duvin LLC Isabel Faherty The Public Interest Network Tomas Ferrer Ed Markey for US Senate Kathleen Freeman Cancer Outcomes Research, Massachusetts General Hospital Kelsey French Puentes de Salud Amanda Frost Girls Incorporated of Worcester Wesley Gallishaw Providence College Athletics Caitlyn Galvin Office of Attorney General Maura Healey Katherine Hanrahan Florida Spine Institute Grace Hewitt American Bear Association Abigail Howell SeaChange Leadership PAC Nicole Huie Nick Matthew for Congress Abigail Hunt WGBH Vivian Hurwitz Alan Khazei Internship Emma Kane Citizens for Juvenile Justice Jacob Kennedy USAF JAG Corps Young Kim Godling Studio Matthew Kraft MKM Partners Nana Kusi Minkah Newgenn Photography Joseph Landry Timmons Wealth Management Gabriella Liberatore The Navarro Lab Isabelle Luke CitySprouts Tallulah Manalo-LaManna SuitUp, Inc. Serena Meyers Alan Khazei Internship Zoe Moran Beth Israel Deaconness Medical Center Margaret Moriarty Administration and Finance Division, City of Springfield, MA Keaden Morisaki Samaritan House John Msaddi Boston Children's Hospital Lauren Nelson Lutheran Social Services Anh Nguyen Millie Grace No American Bear Association Lily Parker Sigmovir Biosystems Emily Parra Kids in Need of Defense Gabrielle Pawlak Atrius Health Catarina Pereira U.S. Naval War College Kristina Perez Boston Children's Hospital Edmilson Rodrigues Pires Boston Children's Hospital Natasha Rodriguez Big Brothers Big Sisters of Eastern Massachusetts Jenna Santos Blavatnik Institute of Global Health and Social Medicine Morgan Schade EMPath- Economic Mobility Pathways Paige Scozzaro Income Holdings, LLC Christopher Seeland Hartford Athletic Soccer Club Dean Sharon Yolele Foods Arissa Shaw Dennis R. Roy Memorial Scholarship Caroline Sheehan Equal Innovation Sophia Shieh McLean Hospital Ann Soong Massachusetts Immigrant & Refugee Advocacy Coalition Claire Spielmann Massachusetts Department of Public Health Marissa Spletter Equal Innovation Julia Talamantes Nick Matthew for Congress Sixto Taveras Lopez Skills for Rhode Island's Future Megan Traudt 4th Row Films Ashley Trotter Ploughshares, American Literary Journal Hollie Watts Joe Kennedy for Senate Madeline West Brigham and Women's Hospital and Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health Hannah Young Northwestern Hospital Surgical Outcomes & Quality Improvement Center Jason Zhao Massachusetts General Hospital 2019 Recipients Name Major School Class Year Location Manogya Acharya Computer Science MCAS 2021 Millie Kofi Agyeman Biology MCAS 2021 First Dental Abigail Allhusen Psychology MCAS 2021 Skiver Advertising Alexander Bracco Political Science MCAS 2020 New York City Department of Investigation Kevin Callanan Information Systems CSOM 2021 Vivoom Moises Camilo Political Science MCAS 2021 Castillo Law Offices Catherine Casassa History MCAS 2020 Child Care Choices of Boston Andrea Catacora Psychology MCAS 2021 Center for Life Sciences at Boston Children's Hospital Grace Cavanagh International Studies MCAS 2021 U.S. State Department, Bureau of Western Hemispheric Affairs Winnie Chan Biology MCAS 2021 NYU Langone Health Career Opportunity Program Tianhu Chen Psychology; Mathematics MCAS 2020 Brown University - Laboratory of Neural Computation and Cognition Seonmin Chung Studio Arts MCAS 2019 (Dec.) Alexis Day Agency Alexandra Coons History MCAS 2020 The Attorney General Office Julio Correa History; Political Science MCAS 2021 U.S. Department of Justice Elizabeth Coscia Applied Psychology and Human Development LSOE 2020 Career Collaborative Javier Diaz Political Science; Communication MCAS 2021 Environmental Voter Project Luis Duran Political Science MCAS 2021 Office of U.S. Senator Marco Rubio Kelsi Ensminger Applied Psychology and Human Development; Philosophy LSOE 2020 Beth Israel Deaconess Medical center Alessandra Escalante Economics MCAS 2021 Elizabeth Warren 2020 Presidential Campaign Rachel Falb Economics MCAS 2021 U.S. Department of Commerce Samantha Ferraro Biochemistry MCAS 2020 Harvard Medical School Orthopedic Trauma Initiative Nicolas Flohr Communication MCAS 2021 Hub Sports Boston James Flynn Biochemistry MCAS 2020 Tufts University School of Medicine Alexa Foust Philosophy MCAS 2020 Massachusetts Department of Corrections Meghan Gorman International Studies MCAS 2020 Office of Congressman Brian Higgins Claire Greydanus Biology MCAS 2021 Boston Children's Hospital Claire Guarini International Studies MCAS 2022 Catholic Charities Gabriella Haedelt Political Science MCAS 2021 U.S. House of Representatives Charlotte Henderson Sociology MCAS 2020 World Congress Conner Hoke International Studies MCAS 2021 United States Marshals Service Ivan Ip Finance; Information Systems CSOM 2021 United East Athletics Association Nathan Janda Psychology MCAS 2020 Progressive Policy Institute Kyle Karpinski Biology MCAS 2022 Capital Regional Medical Center Bryan Kim Economics; Mathematics MCAS 2021 Center for Health Information and Analysis Katharine Lathrop Art History MCAS 2020 WGBH Cecilia Law Psychology MCAS 2020 Massachusetts General Hospital Joshua Lee Political Science; History MCAS 2021 Propper Daley Emma Linville Economics MCAS 2020 Massachusetts Advocates for Children Ariel Lynch Applied Psychology and Human Development; Art History LSOE 2020 Museum of Fine Arts Richard Ma Biology MCAS 2020 Divieti Pajevic Lab at Boston University Henry M. Goldman School of Dental Medicine Ivelisse Mandato Psychology MCAS 2020 The PEAR Institute Marc Marisco Neuroscience; Italian MCAS 2022 Department of Cell Biology and Neuroscience, Rowan University School of Osteopathic Medicine Paulina Martinez Applied Psychology and Human Development; Communication LSOE 2021 Aubry Lane Monica Mascolo Applied Psychology and Human Development LSOE 2020 The PEAR Institute Angela McCarthy Biochemistry MCAS 2021 Recanati/Miller Transplantation Institute at The Mount Sinai Medical Center Megan Meredith Sociology; Psychology MCAS 2020 Covenant House International Alexis Meschino Communication MCAS 2020 East Boston Division, Boston Municipal Court Isabella Minacapilli Biology MCAS 2021 Zoo New England/Franklin Park Zoo Paige Moshier Information Systems; Management and Leadership CSOM 2020 Wareham Gatemen Gabriela Ontaneda International Studies; Hispanic Studies MCAS 2020 The Shulman Law Group Sophia Pandelidis International Studies MCAS 2021 Council for Court Excellence Nicole Pellegrino Biochemistry MCAS 2020 VA Boston Healthcare System Nicola Roux Psychology MCAS 2020 MGH Ammon-Pinizzotto Center for Women’s Mental Health Veronica Scott International Studies MCAS 2021 Tuft, Lach, Jerabek & O'Connell, PLLC Seraphima Sidhom Biology MCAS 2020 Center for Immuno-Oncology at Dana Farber Cancer Institute Mohammed Sirage Computer Science MCAS 2022 blkSAIL LLC Allison Slocum Applied Psychology and Human Development LSOE 2021 REACH Beyond Domestic Violence Yojana Thapa Biology MCAS 2020 Foundation of Nepali Society Ying Ting Computer Science; Economics MCAS 2021 Code Chrysalis Tugce Tumer International Studies MCAS 2021 International Focus Madeline Van Husen International Studies; Islamic Civilization and Societies MCAS 2020 Columbia University Global Mental Health Program Rachel Vatelia Philosophy; History MCAS 2021 Educational Development Group Joseph Vecchio Biochemistry MCAS 2022 Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai Jessica Washek Sociology MCAS 2020 Eradicate Childhood Obesity Foundation (EChO) Ashmini Weerakoon Biochemistry; Perspectives MCAS 2022 Office of the District Attorney Richmond County Allison Witt International Studies MCAS 2021 Irish Immigration Center Siyuan Wu Biochemistry MCAS 2020 Frank Lab at Brigham and Women's Hospital Ethan Yates Linguistics; Classics MCAS 2020 Perseus Digital Library, Tufts University Natasha Zinos Russian Language and Literature; Philosophy MCAS 2021 Museum of Russian Icons 2018 Recipients Name Major School Class Year Location Jude Aboukhater Biology, Perspectives MCAS 2020 Vetrinary Heal Clinic, Watertown, MA Theodore Allen Political Science MCAS 2020 The Blue Lab at Liberty Square Group Matthew Alvarado Management & Leadership CSOM 2020 Big Brothers Big Sisters of Mass Bay Amanda Alberta Political Science, Economics MCAS 2021 Lewiston District Court Victoria Ang English, Economics MCAS 2020 East Boston Neighborhood Health Center Jenna Bilak English MCAS 2019 Massachusetts Court Service Center Bjorn Carlson International Studies MCAS 2020 United States State Department Cayley Bliss Psychology MCAS 2021 University of Maryland Child Development Lab Meghan Boyer Applied Psychology & Human Development, Political Science LSOE 2020 U.S. Department of Homeland Security Brendan Ilnitzki History & Hispanic Studies MCAS 2021 Nassau County Legal Aid Society Kaelin Bush Political Science MCAS 2020 Office of Ayanna Pressley, Boston City Councilor At-Large Gianna Cancemi Biology MCAS 2020 Eradicate Childhood Obesity Foundation Elizabeth Coffran Biology MCAS 2020 Brigham and Women’s Hospital John Colavecchio Biology MCAS 2019 UConn Health Center, Center for Molecular Oncology Rachel Connelly Political Science, History MCAS 2019 Essex County District Attorney’s Office Michael Cornet Finance CSOM 2021 FritzGerald Francois, P.A. Emma Duffy Theology and Sociology MCAS 2019 Boston Collegiate Charter School Caitlin Dwyer Psychology BS MCAS 2020 Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai Joshua Elbaz Biology, Philosophy MCAS 2019 National Center for Disease Control and Public Health (NCDC) George Elliott Management & Leadership CSOM 2021 Archbishop Mihayo University College of Tabora (AMUCTA) Sarah Engelberg-Nolan International Studies MCAS 2020 Jewish Vocational Services Alexander Flores Psychology MCAS 2019 Children’s Hospital Orange County John Foley Economics MCAS 2020 Pioneer Acquisitions LLC Savanah Freitas International Studies MCAS 2020 Connecticut Coalition to End Homelessness Adriana Gonzalez Psychology BS MCAS 2021 Centro Presente Anne Green Political Science MCAS 2020 The Sierra Club Massachusetts Chapter Don Gummow Computer Science MCAS 18-Dec Affect Nathaniel Houston Biology MCAS 2019 Boston Children’s Hospital Harry Hoy Linguistics MCAS 2019 Museo de Arte Moderno de Buenos Aires (Museum of Modern Art of Buenos Aires) Jordan Tessler History MCAS 2019 Massachusetts Women’s Political Caucus Madeline Karsten International Studies (Pre-Med) MCAS 2019 Pediatric Brain Trauma Lab in the Department of Neurosurgery, MGH Oksen Katherine International Studies MCAS 2019 Dandelion PR Seung Kim Linguistics MCAS 2020 E.M. Saffran Center for Cognitive Neuroscience - Memory, Concepts, Cognition Lab Taesung Kim Psychology MCAS 2021 Judge Baker Children’s Center Ha Kim Applied Psychology and Human Development, Communication LSOE 2020 Korea Town Youth Community Center Dahna Lee Applied Pschology and Human Development LSOE 2019 The Price Center Branden Lee Biology, Political Science MCAS 2021 Suffolk County District Attorney Office Liam Madden International Studies & Economics MCAS 2019 United Nations Relief and Works Agency for Palestine Refugees in the Near East Kimberly Lozano International Studies MCAS 2019 Catholic Charities of Santa Clara County Weiying Lu Biology, Psychology MCAS 2020 Robert Wood Johnson Medical School Madeleine Burns Biology MCAS 2019 Joey O’Donnell Cystic Fibrosis Center at Massachusetts General Hospital Maritha Du Environmental Studies MCAS 2020 Sierra Club Frank Marrone Biology, Applied Psychology and Human Development LSOE 2020 Volunteers for Wildlife Jamie Martinez Political Science MCAS 2020 United States Congress Erin McHugh Biology MCAS 2020 Morristown Medical Center Karissa Mokoban Sociology MCAS 2020 Massachusetts Attorney General’s Office Hannah Munro Political Science MCAS 2019 Guinn Center for Policy Priorities Nicolás Thompson-Lleras International Studies MCAS 2019 Big Brothers Big Sisters of Massachusetts Bay Nicole St. Clair Biology MCAS 2019 Boston Children’s Hospital Elizabeth Niehoff Biology MCAS 2019 Project Healthcare Bellevue Hospital Center Patrick Chatfield Psychology B.S. MCAS 2020 Benowitz Lab in the F.M, Kirby Neurobiology Center at Boston Children’s Hospital Allia Peterson Marketing, Accounting CSOM 2020 Camp Gray Catholic Camp Tia Rashke Theology MCAS 2019 Southern African Catholic Bishops’ Conference Parliamentary Liason Office (CPLO) Dean Rosales Biology MCAS 2020 Schepens Eye Research Institute Kyle Rosenthal Information Systems CSOM 2021 Rochester People’s Climate Coalition (RPCC) Sarah Duran Communication & Studio Art MCAS 2019 IVY The Social University Daniel Schantz English MCAS 2020 Relix Magazine Anna Scheeler Political Science MCAS 2019 United States of America Embassy in Copenhagen Thomas Schloo Economics MCAS 2020 FrankfurtRheinMain GmbH Scott Henderson Psychology B.S. MCAS 2019 Massachusetts General Hosptial Jeremiah Seo Biology MCAS 2020 Brigham and Women’s Hospital Molly Smith Nursing CSON 2019 Via Services Zijia Song Communication MCAS 2019 WCVB Channel 5 Boston Madison Steele International Studies MCAS 2019 Julius Center for Health Sciences and Primary Care Suraj Pasupneti Biochemistry & English MCAS 2019 Healthcare Now Sun Tangyue Finance/ Information Systems CSOM 2020 Agricultural Bank of China Marguerite Thornton Communication, Spanish MCAS 2019 WCVB Channel 5 Tobie Kim Psychology BA MCAS 2019 Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center Matthew Yan Biology MCAS 2020 MD Anderson Cancer Center Zihui Zhou Mathematics, Studio Art MCAS 2019 BrainCo Tech Zixuan Lin Economics MCAS 2021 The Advance Group Back To Top Back To Top Career Center Southwell Hall 38 Commonwealth Avenue Chestnut Hill, MA 02467 617-552-3430 About Departments & Programs How can we help you? Events Division of Student Affairs Division of Student Affairs BAIC BC Bands Business Service Center Career Center Counseling Services Graduate Student Life Health Promotion Health Services Residential Life Robsham Theater Student Conduct Student Involvement Student Outreach & Support Women’s Center Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College