Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. UC News UC News right arrow down arrow UC News Search Topics right arrow down arrow UC Answers #UCtheGood In The News Arts & Culture Science & Tech International Athletics Health College Bound Impact right arrow down arrow #UCtheGood Insights Diversity Experience-Based Learning Next Lives Here Bicentennial COVID-19 Student Experience Colleges right arrow down arrow College of Allied Health Sciences College of Arts & Sciences College of Business Blue Ash College Clermont College College-Conservatory of Music College of Design, Architecture, Art, and Planning College of Education, Criminal Justice, & Human Services College of Engineering and Applied Science Graduate School College of Law College of Medicine College of Nursing College of Pharmacy Units right arrow down arrow Academic Health Center Admissions Alumni Association Board of Trustees Campus Services Equity and Inclusion Hoxworth Human Resources IT@UC Libraries Office of Innovation Office of Research President's Office Provost Public Safety Student Affairs UC Foundation Veteran's Affairs Continuing Education Media Contacts Featured News UC surprises future Bearcats on Decision Day January 24, 2022 Decision Day marks the moment when thousands of incoming Bearcats learn they’ve been accepted to the University of Cincinnati. University officials surprised four area high school seniors at their schools and homes, making them among the first to be accepted into UC in 2022. UC takes center stage in Amazon Prime series January 19, 2022 Filmed in July 2021, UC’s episode is a crash-course in being a Bearcat, starring a few of the university’s best and brightest students and alumni. Some are lifelong Cincinnatians; others are from across the globe. But they’re all excited to show viewers why they've called UC home: From its beautiful spaces and state-of-the-art facilities to co-op and campus life. UC sees an uptick in applications from prospective Bearcats December 15, 2021 Applications from prospective students are up 11% with more than 23,000 requests for admission to the University of Cincinnati for the fall 2022 semester. Query for this Latest News Keyword topics Select topics Answers Arts & Culture Athletics Bicentennial College bound COVID-19 Diversity Entrepreneurship Experience-based Learning Faculty Staff Health Impact In The News Insights International Must Read Next Lives Here Science & Tech Student Experience Thought Leadership colleges Select colleges College of Arts and Sciences Blue Ash College College of Allied Health Sciences College-Conservatory of Music College of Engineering and Applied Science College of Education, Criminal Justice, & Human Services Clermont College Lindner College of Business College of Design, Architecture, Art, and Planning Graduate School College of Law College of Medicine College of Nursing Online College of Pharmacy Clear All Filters {{facet.display}} remove {{facet.display}} remove {{facet.display}} remove {{facet.display}} remove Local 12 News: ‘It’s changing my life’: Ten students awarded... May 30, 2022 Benya Coleman, a recent graduate of Hughes STEM High School, spoke with Local 12 News reporter Jenna Cisneros about her award of the Marian Spencer Scholarship to attend the University of Cincinnati this fall. 'I’m a Bearcat' May 12, 2022 From the moment she was surprised on Decision Day with admittance to the University of Cincinnati, Lachelle Dixon was ready to move on from high school and start the next chapter of her life at UC. UC Clermont to hold Express Application Event May 24 April 27, 2022 UC Clermont will hold a free on-campus Express Application Event Tuesday, May 24. The last day to apply for admission to the college for fall semester 2022 is July 1. Young, gifted and Black April 4, 2022 A Seat at the Table content series looks to explore the experiences and identities of diverse student populations at UC while shedding light on support, resources and opportunities available at the university. UC Clermont to hold Express Application Event April 7 March 16, 2022 UC Clermont will hold a free on-campus Express Application Event Thursday, April 7. The last day to apply for admission to the college for fall semester 2022 is July 1. Cincinnati Enquirer: City partners with UC for reduced tuition March 15, 2022 All 6,000-plus city of Cincinnati workers and their families can now sign up for online University of Cincinnati courses without paying full tuition, city and university leaders announced Monday. Local media covered the announcement. Tuition guaranteed or held flat for UC students February 22, 2022 Annual vote UC Clermont offers summer computer-aided manufacturing... February 10, 2022 UC Clermont College’s Manufacturing Engineering Technology program will offer its Computer-Aided Manufacturing certificate this summer, providing a new, condensed pathway to the industry credential. Spectrum News: Cincinnati high school student surprised with... February 10, 2022 Ten high school students from Cincinnati Public Schools (CPS) were the first to be honored with the new Marian Spencer Scholarship awards by the University of Cincinnati. Spectrum News covers one of the surprises. WCPO: UC featured on Amazon Prime February 9, 2022 The Amazon Prime series “The College Tour,” which highlights colleges and universities around the country, features UC in its upcoming season. Ohio media cover its premiere. Inaugural class of Marian Spencer Scholars announced February 8, 2022 The University of Cincinnati has awarded 10 high school students from Cincinnati Public Schools the new Marian Spencer Scholarship. UC Regionals to host Open House events March 9 February 7, 2022 UC Clermont will join with UC Blue Ash to host Regional College Open House events Wednesday, March 9, from 5:30-7:30 p.m. Everything you need to know about UC housing January 27, 2022 UC Director of Housing Carl Dieso shares the housing process — apply, select your room and move in — and benefits of living on campus. UC surprises future Bearcats on Decision Day January 24, 2022 Decision Day marks the moment when thousands of incoming Bearcats learn they’ve been accepted to the University of Cincinnati. University officials surprised four area high school seniors at their schools and homes, making them among the first to be accepted into UC in 2022. ‘College Tour’ spotlight: Miles Spearman January 21, 2022 Miles Spearman is one of 10 students and alumni featured in UC’s episode of “The College Tour,” an Amazon Prime series that features universities from across the country. Load More Debug Query for this University of Cincinnati 2600 Clifton Ave. Cincinnati, OH 45220 513-556-0000 UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati University of Cincinnati 2600 Clifton Ave. Cincinnati, OH 45220 513-556-0000 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top