Skip to main content link Home About EDI Mission Statement Who We Are Contact Us Timeline of Equity, Diversity and Inclusion Efforts at Vanderbilt Identity Centers Identity Centers Overview Bishop Joseph Johnson Black Cultural Center (BCC) Center for Spiritual and Religious Life Margaret Cuninggim Women’s Center Office of LGBTQI Life Identity Initiatives Identity Initiatives Overview AAPI InclusAbility IndigenousVU MilitaryVU Network First-Gen PersistVU SomosVU VUGlobalCitizens Projects and Initiatives Diverse ‘Dores Day Heritage Month Project Posse Transitions Summer Catalyst Program MLK Commemorative Series Events Events Upcoming events Past events and recordings Resources 2019 – 20 Chancellor’s Diversity Report Anti-racism Resources AAPI (Asian American Pacific Islander) Racial Justice Toolkit Center for Spiritual and Religious Life Calendar of Holy Days Deans’ Diversity Designates EDI Trainings and Resources Employee Affinity Groups Equity, Diversity and Inclusion at Vanderbilt 2018-19 Report Gender Affirmation Toolkit For Vanderbilt Employees Name Changes & Pronoun Designation Unconscious Bias Stay Informed Critical Incident Messages Equity, Diversity and Inclusion IndigenousVU What is IndigenousVU? What is IndigenousVU? In modern society, the education and acknowledgment of Indigenous and Native peoples across the globe limit those groups’ contributions past the colonial eras of relocation and genocide. The history books struggle to showcase that these communities flourish and exist in every area of the globe. In nearly every geographic region in the world, exists communities that are native to those lands. Some of those communities are represented at Vanderbilt through our student populations, faculty body, staff members, and alums. For community members of Vanderbilt – students, faculty, staff, and post-docs that identify as: First Nations Native Alaskan Native American Native Hawaiian Part of an Indigenous community in the: Caribbean Central America South America South Pacific, this is IndigenousVU. We aim to provide resources, support, and fellowship to those within this community. This initiative is open to all Vanderbilt community members, regardless of racial, ethnic, and/or Tribal status. Still, many of the resources and opportunities are directed towards those that identify in some way as Indigenous. As this initiative builds, our goal is to extend our reach to community members from Indigenous groups within the European, African, and Asian continents. For any individuals that would like to learn more about IndigenousVU, contact Hope Young. If you are interested in taking part in activities for Indigenous students and employees at Vanderbilt, feel free to fill out this form to stay connected! Goals for IndigenousVU To connect Indigenous peoples at Vanderbilt in efforts to build community amongst this population. To educate members of the Vanderbilt community on the histories and culture of various Indigenous communities spanning the globe. To advocate for issues relating to the Indigenous experience on campus. Land Acknowledgment Although Vanderbilt University does not have an official land acknowledgment, below is the land acknowledgment created by Tamee Livermont (MPH‘20), and McKalee Steen (BA‘20) and passed by the Vanderbilt Student Government in Fall 2019: “We collectively acknowledge that Vanderbilt University occupies the ancestral hunting and traditional Lands of the Cherokee, Shawnee, Choctaw, Chickasaw, and Creek peoples. Today, these people have nation boundaries in Oklahoma, North Carolina, and Mississippi, after the Indian Removal Act of 1830 led to the forced removal of southern tribes west of the Mississippi River. In particular, the University resides on Land ceded on November 8, 1795 in the Treaty of Hopewell. We recognize, support, and advocate for the Indigenous individuals and communities who live here now, and for those forcibly removed from their Homelands. By offering this Land Acknowledgement, we affirm Indigenous sovereignty and will work to hold Vanderbilt University more accountable to the needs of American Indian and Indigenous peoples.” More information about the formation of land acknowledgments can be found at https://nativegov.org/news/a-guide-to-indigenous-land-acknowledgment/. If you are interested in learning more about the various Indigenous lands across the globe, visit https://native-land.ca/. Resources for Our Indigenous Community Members @ Vanderbilt Amerian Indian Science and Engineering Society (AISES) College Horizons Indigenous Employee Affinity Group (for faculty, post-docs, and staff) Indigenous Scholars Organization (undergraduate student organization) Indigenous Studies Seminar (via the Robert Warren Penn Center for the Humanities) Educational resources (via the Student Center for Social Justice and Identity) Educational resources (via Vanderbilt University Libraries) Indigenous Career and scholarship Opportunities American Indian Business Leaders (AIBL) American Indian Graduate Center American Indian Higher Education Consortium (AIHEC) American Indian Science and Engineering Society Bureau of Indian Affairs Center for Native American Youth at the Aspen Center Elivade Native American Jobs Society for the Advancement of Chicanos and Native Americans in Science Udall Undergraduate Scholarship resources within the Greater Nashville Community and broader Native Education Native American Indian Association of Tennessee United South & Eastern Tribes, Inc. Supporting Indigenous Businesses Events around campus Check back in later to learn more about events scheduled for the 2022-2023 academic year! Past Events Native/Indigenous Graduates Recognition Ceremony Indigenous Scholars Organization Events (via AnchorLink) Native American Heritage Month 2021 Reading & Discussion with Natalie Diaz (recording from the event on 11/9) NAHM Community Gathering (11/17) The Art of Resistance (11/17) Native Americans in Sports (recording from the event on 11/19) Indigenous Alumni – Where are they now? Tamee Livermont Identity Initiatives Overview Identity Initiatives Overview InclusAbility Network First-Gen PersistVU SomosVU VUGlobalCitizens AAPI MilitaryVU IndigenousVU Upcoming Events MORE » Recent News Esteemed astrophysics professor Keivan Stassun co-authors study for NASA on increasing diversity and inclusion in space mission leadership A message to the Vanderbilt community regarding recent violence in California A message to the Vanderbilt community regarding the tragedy in Buffalo Submit proposals for new Employee Affinity Groups through June 15 Churchwell named to Nashville Public Schools Hall of Fame, recognized as 2022 distinguished alumnus Law School Dean’s Lecture: ‘Implicit Bias, Structural Bias and Implications for Law and Policy’ April 21 Harlem Renaissance serves as backdrop for VUTheatre’s final spring 2022 production MORE Connect with Vanderbilt twitter facebook instagram youtube RSS Feed Project Safe Support Hotline: 615-322-SAFE (7233) Vanderbilt University Police: 911 or615-421-1911 Vanderbilt University Medical Center Emergency Services: 615-322-0160 <!-- VIDEO --> Equal Employment Opportunity: 615-343-9336 Title IX and Student Discrimination: 615-343-9004 Student Access Services: 615-343-9727 Employee Assistance Program: 615-936-1327 © Vanderbilt University · All rights reserved. Site Development: Digital Strategies (Division of Communications) Vanderbilt University is committed to principles of equal opportunity and affirmative action. Accessibility information. Vanderbilt®, Vanderbilt University®, V Oak Leaf Design®, Star V Design® and Anchor Down® are trademarks of The Vanderbilt University Loading Comments... Write a Comment... Email (Required) Name (Required) Website