Skip to content Cornell University Search toggle menu close About Cornell About Cornell Overview University Facts Maps & Directions Mission & Vision Core Values Locations Ithaca New York City Related Links Diversity Indigenous Engagement Economic Impact Sustainability Global Cornell Leadership Admissions Overview Undergraduate Apply Admissions Dates and Deadlines Costs and Aid Graduate Admissions Fields of Study Financial Support Continuing Education & Summer Sessions Summer Sessions Winter Sessions Part-time Study Academics Academics Overview Fields of Study Colleges & Schools Departments Library Continuing Education Related Links Office of the Provost Academic Calendar Course Catalog Global Learning Learning Goals Research Overview Explore Cornell Research Extreme Talent. Radical Collaboration. Results That Matter. Related Links Vice President for Research and Innovation Centers & Institutes Technology Licensing (CTL) Graduate Research Undergraduate Research OVPRI Research Publications Public Engagement Overview Featured CCE helps Buffalo get school food truck rolling Related Links Cornell Cooperative Extension Engaged Cornell Hub Land Grant to New York State New York State Impact Life at Cornell Life at Cornell Overview Athletics & Recreation Arts & Culture Health & Safety Live, Work, Travel Student Life Related Links Find Your Networks Center for First-Year Students Clubs & Student Groups More Toggle navigation Apply Undergraduate Graduate Visit Give Students Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Search Search Overview University Facts Mission & Vision Core Values Locations Ithaca New York City Maps & Directions University Mission Learning. Discovery. Engagement. Cornell is a private, Ivy League university and the land-grant university for New York state. Cornell’s mission is to discover, preserve and disseminate knowledge, to educate the next generation of global citizens, and to promote a culture of broad inquiry throughout and beyond the Cornell community. Cornell also aims, through public service, to enhance the lives and livelihoods of students, the people of New York and others around the world. University Vision Cornell aspires to be the exemplary comprehensive research university for the 21st century. Faculty, staff and students thrive at Cornell because of its unparalleled combination of quality and breadth; its open, collaborative and innovative culture; its founding commitment to diversity and inclusion; its vibrant rural and urban campuses; and its land-grant legacy of public engagement. University Core Values Purposeful discovery, free and open inquiry and expression, a community of belonging, exploration across boundaries, changing lives through engagement and respect for the natural environment constitute Cornell’s core values. Learn More Founding Principle "I would found an institution where any person can find instruction in any study." - Ezra Cornell, 1868 Leadership Leadership is responsible for advancing Cornell’s mission and realizing the university’s vision. Use the links below to learn more. Board of Trustees Office of the President Office of the Provost Senior Administration & Academic Leadership Land Grant Mission Diversity & Inclusion Faculty Senate Assemblies Helpful Links expand menu Academic Calendar Leadership Careers Events News Title IX Emergency Preparedness Visiting Cornell expand menu Campus Tours Maps & Directions Ithaca-NYC Travel Johnson Museum Botanic Gardens Ithaca Ithaca Today expand menu Live View Weather 79°F / 26°C Ithaca, New York University Privacy Web Accessibility Assistance Copyright Site Information Contact Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube