Skip to main content Menu Discover Majors and Careers Admissions and Aid Campus Life Spirit and Traditions Athletics Raleigh, N.C. Apply Visit Give About NC State 101 Chancellor Rankings and Facts Think and Do Education Undergraduate Graduate Online Colleges and Departments Innovation Research Partnerships Centennial Campus Entrepreneurship Community Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Global Engagement Outreach and Extension Philanthropy and Giving Apply Visit Give Information For: Students Faculty and Staff Parents and Families Alumni NC State Resources Stop Video Stop Video Majors and Careers Wherever you’re headed, an NC State education can help you get there. Choose from hundreds of world-class academic programs, each one designed to prepare you for success. As the largest university in North Carolina — and the flagship STEM campus of the UNC System — NC State is a launchpad for the rest of your life. And because we’re a public university built to serve the people, we’re the best investment you’ll ever make. Choose Your Major While we have our roots in agriculture and engineering, we’re home to leading programs in design, education, humanities and social sciences, management, natural resources, sciences, textiles, veterinary medicine and more. At NC State, you can take your pick from more than 100 majors. Below, you’ll get a glimpse of where we excel. Agriculture and Life Sciences Since 1887, we’ve supported crucial agriculture across North Carolina and helped pioneer its future. Design and the Humanities As a comprehensive university, we boast world-class programs in the humanities and social sciences — and a world-class design college. Engineering NC State is a powerhouse of engineering, ranked among the best universities in the nation for our teaching and research. Entrepreneurship and Management There are few better places in the country to turn your bright ideas into thriving business ventures. STEM We’re hailed for our strength in science and technology, and we’re also home to one of the top colleges of veterinary medicine on the planet. Strengthening North Carolina From next-gen textiles to natural resources to preparing future educators, we do all we can to support our state. Course Catalog NC State offers a wealth of academic programs — from undergraduate degrees to the Doctor of Veterinary Medicine. See if we have what you need, or explore by college or department. Search the catalog Follow Your Path At NC State, your choice of major is just the beginning. We offer a range of minors and other options to help tailor your education to your needs and interests. 120 Minors Whatever your passion, you can pursue it at NC State. Not sure what you want to study? If you haven’t yet narrowed your focus, our first-year Exploratory Studies program will help you find your way. And if you see yourself attending medical school, law school or veterinary school, we offer dedicated preprofessional support to help you plan for your future. Dig Deeper Undergraduate When you start at NC State, you can’t be stopped. Learn what makes the undergraduate experience here unbeatable. Begin your journey Graduate Students come from all over the world to get an advanced degree from NC State. Explore our more than 200 master’s and doctoral programs. Pursue your passion Online Our mission demands that we make a world-class education available to anyone, anywhere. So that’s exactly what we do. Education on demand Be Ready for Everything NC State was built to make higher education accessible to all — and to prepare people for successful careers and meaningful lives. We strive to fulfill that mission, which is why we’re routinely ranked among the best values in public higher education in the United States and as the best value in our state. At this university, you’ll learn by doing and gain the insights and experience needed to hit the ground running after college. From day one, we offer dedicated career development, extensive internship and co-op opportunities, and access to one of the strongest alumni networks in the country. In short, when you start at NC State, you can’t be stopped. #7 for Value Among Public Universities We’re among the top 10 in the nation for value, according to U.S. News & World Report. #1 for Salary Potential Among North Carolina public universities, an NC State education pays off the most, according to Payscale. Discover NC State Admissions and Aid Campus Life Spirit and Traditions Athletics Raleigh, N.C. take the next step Apply Ready to start your journey with us? Find out what you need to begin your application to NC State. Join the Pack Visit Want to see more of the campus you’ll call home? We offer in-depth virtual tours, or you can schedule an in-person visit. Come explore Home Raleigh, NC 27695 919.515.2011 Campus Map Academic Calendar Accessibility Apply Contact Copyright COVID-19 Updates Directory Emergency Information Free Speech Jobs Libraries MyPack Portal Policies Privacy Statement Resources Strategic Plan Connect With Us Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Instagram YouTube © 2022 NC State University. All rights reserved.