Skip to main content Toggle Tools navigation Toggle Site Navigation Toggle Search University of Cincinnati UC Home Visit UC Support UC Directories UC Tools Canopy & Blackboard Catalyst OneStop Student Email Faculty / Staff Email Shuttle Tracker UCFileSpace UC Flex/ESS IT Help UC VPN Concur Success Factors Enter a search term to search UC pages or the directory. Search String University of Cincinnati About Contact Us Policies Procedures Standards Guidelines Awareness How to Manage Your Social Media Privacy Settings National Cybersecurity Awareness Month End Of Support (EOS) Online Meetings Services Two-Factor Authentication Risk Management Shredding Security Certificates Information Security Review McAfee ePolicy Orchestrator (ePO) Encryption Account & Password Help Notifications of Expiration Password Help (PSS) Setup New Accounts How to Choose a Password Compliance & Law Copyright Infringement Notifications of Expiration Password Help (PSS) Setup New Accounts How to Choose a Password About Policies Awareness Services Account & Password Help Notifications of Expiration Password Help (PSS) Setup New Accounts How to Choose a Password Compliance & Law Copyright Infringement Two-Factor Authentication Free Antivirus Report an Incident Contact Us UCIT Homepage Information Security Review Facebook Twitter How to Choose a Password Your passwords are the keys to many things: your bank machine, your computer, your email, a server on a network. Your password helps to prove you are who you say you are, and ensures your privacy. Compromised passwords are the means by which most unauthorized (and devious) people gain access to a system. Someone logging on under your name has access not only to your computer files, but to most of the facilities of the computer system. Since tampering can have far-reaching and serious consequences, it's important to take to heart the following guidelines for choosing a password. How would you lock the front door of your home? With a luggage lock or with a deadbolt? Never tell anyone your password – not your friends, colleagues, account manager or even your system administrator or Helpdesk -- and don't write it down. Make sure you have chosen a password that you can remember. When you are given a new account, immediately change your password to one that only you know. Expand All Central Login Password Requirements Expand To help protect you and your information, we require strong passwords here at UC. First thing to consider when creating a new password are the rules for passwords. Here are the UC Password Rules: Passwords being created or changed must contain: At least one lowercase letter At least one uppercase letter At least one number Must be a minimum length of eight characters Passwords may not contain any form or part of your name or your username The system remembers passwords you have already used, and will not allow you to reuse an old password Expand All General Password Selection Guidelines Expand You want to choose something that is easy to remember with a minimum of 8 characters that uses as many of the techniques above as possible. One way to do this is to pick a phrase you will remember, pick all the first or last letters from each word and then substitute some letters with numbers and symbols. You can then apply capitals to some letters (perhaps the first and last, or second to last, etc.) You could also perhaps keep or add punctuation. Some examples: Phrase First Letters Password "So long and thanks for all the fish” slatfatf 5L@tf@tF “Best Series Ever: Terry Goodkind’s Sword of Truth” bsetgsot B53:tg’Sot “You Can't Have Everything. Where Would You Put It?” ychewwypi Uch3Wwup1? If you are selecting a password for a website, you may want to incorporate the first few letters of the website name into your password so that every password is different and if one gets out, you don’t have to change them all. This approach has good and bad points. For example, if you have a standard password like B53:tg’Sot (see above) that you like to use most places (this not recommended), you may modify it by placing the first and last letter of the website around it: Website Password www.ebay.com eB53:tg’Soty www.amazon.com aB53:tg’Sotn www.webshots.com wB53:tg’Sots Expand All May not want to choose Expand Your name in any form -- first, middle, last, maiden, spelled backwards, nickname or initials. Any ID number or User ID in any form, even spelled backwards. Part of your User ID or name. Any common name, e.g., Sue, Joe. The name of a close relative, friend, or pet. Your phone or office number, address, birthday, or anniversary. Acronyms, geographical or product names, and technical terms. Any all-numeral passwords, e.g., your license-plate number, social-security number. Names from popular culture, e.g., Harry_Potter, Sleepy. A single word either preceded or followed by a digit, a punctuation mark, up arrow, or space. Words or phrases with all the vowels or white spaces deleted. Words or phrases that do not mix upper and lower case, or do not mix letters or numbers, or do not mix letters and punctuation. Any word that exactly matches a word in a dictionary, forward, reversed, or pluralized, with some or all of the letters capitalized, or with any of the following substitutions: a -> 2, a -> 4, e -> 3, h -> 4, i -> 1, l -> 1, o -> 0, s -> $, s -> 5, z -> 5 Expand All Why do I need a complex Password? Expand e guessing your password. Most password crackers have rules that can try millions of word variants per second, so the more algorithmically complex your password, the better. Character Sets used in Password Calculation Possible Combinations Dictionary words (in English): (It is debatable but lets generously say ~600,000 words) --- 600,000 Numbers Only 10^8 100,000,000 Lowercase Alpha Set only 26^8 208,827,064,576 Full Alpha Set 52^8 53,459,728,531,456 Full Alpha + Number Set 62^8 218,340,105,584,896 Full Set of allowed printable characters set (10+26+26+19)^8 645,753,531,245,761 The longer your password the more secure. If we take the full set of allowed printable characters set (the last line above) and increase the password length, the possible combinations jump exponentially (odd, considering that the calculation includes exponents...) 8 Characters > 645,753,531,245,761 (645 Trillion) Combinations 9 Characters > 45,848,500,718,449,031 (45 Quadrillion) Combinations 10 Characters > 3,255,243,551,009,881,201 (3 Quintillion) Combinations When we refer to character sets, they are typically numbers, upper and lowercase letters and a given set of symbols. For example: Characters Number of Characters 0123456789 10 abcdefghijklmnopqrstuvwxyz 26 ABCDEFGHIJKLMNOPQRSTUVWXY 26 `~!@#$%^&-_=+[{]}. 19 University of Cincinnati IT@UC Office of Information Security University Hall 51 Goodman Drive Cincinnati, OH 45221 Phone: 513-558-ISEC (4732) E-mail: infosec@uc.edu Notice of Non-Discrimination Alerts Clery and HEOA Notice Notice of Non-Discrimination eAccessibility Concern Privacy Statement Copyright Information © 2018 University of Cincinnati This website offers many PDF files for download, which require Adobe Reader to view.