Skip Navigation California State University, Fullerton Site Menu Division of Information Technology Main Navigation About IT Services Show Extended Students Faculty / Staff CEDA Software Show Extended Students Faculty / Staff Events & Projects IT Strategic Plan Password Policy Faculty, Staff & emeriti Based on CSU policy requirements and information security best practices, the Campus password expiration guideline requires that all Faculty, Staff, and Emeriti change their Campus password annually during the month of October. How to change your password Gather all of your mobile devices. If you have a desktop iMac, we recommend that you change your password using System Preferences on your assigned Campus iMac. To change your password use the CSUF Employee: Change Password site. On mobile devices, wait for password prompts. To change your administrative account password, use Instructions on how to change password site Update Security Questions We strongly encourage you to update your password security questions so that you can reset your password if you forget. Log into the Campus Portal In the menu you will see a Settings link which will open your Profile Settings. Under the Employee Account Settings there is an option for Password Reset Security Questions. Press the Edit link at the end of that option and it will display the current security questions for you to change. Password Requirements Should be between 12 and 20 characters Contain 3 of these 4 requirements: Uppercase letters Lowercase letters Numbers Symbols: ! @ $ % & * - _ + . No part of your name can be used You cannot use your last 24 campus passwords Campus Password Guides Change Password Quick Guide Password Guidelines Forgot Your Password? Update Password on Mobile Devices After you have changed your campus password, you will need to update the email and WiFi passwords on any mobile devices that are connected to your campus account. So be sure to have them close by. Find Out How! Do I Need To Change My Password? You will need to change your password if you are: Faculty and Staff Student Employee "ZZ accounts" (including Graduate Assistants) Volunteers Teaching Associates Contractor Visiting Scholar Administrative Accounts (conference rooms, labs, and department accounts) Emeriti Contact the IT Help Desk at 657-278-7777 if you are unsure if your account requires a password reset. This site is maintained by Division of Information Technology. Last Published 4/5/22 To report problems or comments with this site, please contact helpdesk@fullerton.edu. © California State University, Fullerton. All Rights Reserved. Web Accessibility CSUF is committed to ensuring equal accessibility to our users. Let us know about any accessibility problems you encounter using this website. We'll do our best to improve things and get you the information you need. Resources: Download Adobe Acrobat Reader Adobe Reader Download Word viewer, or download Excel viewer, or download PowerPoint viewer Microsoft Viewers Report An ATI Issue Accessible @ CSUF Version_4.8.10 This page uses javascript to help render elements, if you have problems please enable javascript.