Skip to main content Skip to primary site menu Google Tag Manager Search form Search Explore Brown University Search Global Navigation Learn More About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life Find A to Z Index People Directory Information for Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Top Destinations Global Brown Watson Institute Graduate School Alpert Medical School School of Public Health School of Engineering Italian Studies Home About People Academics Undergraduate Program Graduate Program Courses Brown in Bologna Research and Publications Events Site Navigation Home About People Academics Undergraduate Program Graduate Program Resources Chiasmi Courses Brown in Bologna Semester or Academic Year Abroad Brown in Bologna Summer Program Research and Publications Faculty Bookshelf Virtual Humanities Lab (VHL) Italian Studies Colloquium Events Past Events Courses for Spring 2022 Intensive Elementary Italian Covers the same material presented in Italian 100-200. One semester equivalent to the standard two-semester sequence. Daily meetings plus audio and video assignments. ITAL 0110 S01 Primary Instructor Abbona-Sneider Elementary Italian See Elementary Italian (ITAL 0100) for course description. ITAL 0200 S01 Primary Instructor Abbona-Sneider ITAL 0200 S02 Primary Instructor Abbona-Sneider Intermediate Italian I Review of the fundamentals of grammar, with emphasis on speaking and writing. Reading of representative short stories. Weekly compositions, presentations, and a paper. Three Italian films. Prerequisite: ITAL 0100-0200, or ITAL 0110, or placement by examination. Requirement for enrollment in the Bologna Program. ITAL 0300 S01 Primary Instructor Abbona-Sneider Intermediate Italian II Review of specific grammar problems. Reading of one novel and newspaper articles. Compositions and oral presentations. Three Italian films. Prerequisite: ITAL 0300, or placement by examination. ITAL 0400 S01 Primary Instructor Abbona-Sneider Advanced Italian II A sixth semester course with intensive practice in speaking and writing. Short stories, poems, music, and movies will be used to discuss Italian Society from the Second World War through the present. We will explore some important themes--family, religion, gender, and politics. Class discussion, compositions, oral presentations, and a final paper. Prerequisite: ITAL 0500, placement by examination. ITAL 0600 S01 Primary Instructor Abbona-Sneider Simulating Reality: The (Curious) History and Science of Immersive Experiences. Can an experimental approach enhance our critical-historical understanding of immersive experiences? We will look at the history of 3D vision from an interdisciplinary perspective combining the science of perception and the cultural history of technology. Through a series of collaborative activities and team experiments, we will learn how popular, pre-digital optical devices (such as camerae obscurae, magic lanterns, panoramas or stereoscopes) foreshadow contemporary VR, AR, or XR experiences designed for education and entertainment. Among the themes explored: virtual travel, social voyeurism and surveillance, utopian and dystopian imagination. ITAL 0701 S01 Primary Instructor Riva Italian EcoCinema Earth Ecologies and Cinema: The Anthro/Bio/Geo/Morphic Machine Starting from the recognition that human activity has indelibly altered the planet on a scale of geological epoch, constituting an existential crisis for all life forms, this course explores the theory and practice of cinema as artistic endeavor immersed in cultural discourse, human creativity, fossil fueled technology and its material carbon footprint. Contemporary Italian films will be addressed in the frame of eco criticism and feminism, sound ecology and affect theory. Through the work of major filmmakers (Michelangelo Antonioni, Matteo Garrone, Alice Rohrwacher) and transnational productions (the latest Disney Pixar’s Luca directed by Enrico Casarosa) we will query the crucial (direct and indirect) agency of filmmaking to create, critique, alter and foster imaginaries of new/old ways to inhabit the earth in the twenty-first century. ITAL 0910 S01 Primary Instructor Sisto Dante in English Translation: Dante's World and the Invention of Modernity Primarily for students with no knowledge of Italian. Given in English. Concentrators in Italian should enroll in ITAL 1610; they are expected to read the material in the original. Close study and discussion of Dante's deployment of systems of retribution in the Inferno and rehabilitation in the Purgatorio with a view to imagining a society based on love and resistant to the effects of nascent capitalism and the money economy. Dante's work summarizes and transforms the entire ancient and medieval tradition of literature, philosophy, and science. ITAL 1010 S01 Primary Instructor Martinez Decameron: Technologies of Representation, Medieval to Modern This course examines intersections of textual and visual representation in Boccaccio’s Decameron. A close reading of the text and its reception will enable us to explore how nascent artistic concerns like narrative realism and three-dimensional perspective emerged in conjunction with literary devices, forming new technologies of representation. Analyzing the text’s central questions concerning economic privilege, social hierarchy, and civic engagement, we will explore the role of literary representations of art and visual interpretations of the text in commenting on the nature of art and and in critiquing sociocultural conditions. Primary-source reading will be accompanied by selections from contemporary critical theory, manuscripts, cinematic adaptations, and digital media responses to covid-19. ITAL 1020 S01 Primary Instructor Bruhns Women, Gender, and Feminism in Early Modern Italy This course explores the variety of Italian women’s histories, issues of gender and sexuality, and ingenious responses to circumvent the social, economic, religious, and political limitations placed upon them during the early modern period (1400-1800). Italian women produced some of the foundational texts of historical feminism, the intellectual and cultural movement that advanced the idea of equality across genders and the necessity of equal access to opportunity and education. This course surveys the alternatives proposed to the gender hierarchies of Italian society and will include selections from archival documents, letters, literature, treatises, and the visual arts. Course is taught in English. ITAL 1262 S01 Primary Instructor Castiglione Mammamia Figure Italiane Del Materno / Italian Figures of Motherhood The “mamma,” with her strong and inborn maternal instinct, is so deeply rooted in our collective imagination that it ended up being a cliché we cannot separate from the Italian cultural context. This course will explore the historical and theoretical complexities of such a commonplace by focusing on various figures of motherhood in literature, feminist theory, psychoanalysis, and cinema. From the Virgin Mary to the surrogate mother in recent feminist debates, the course will inquire into the rhetorical strategies on which the myth of motherliness has been built. ITAL 1400W S01 Primary Instructor Odello The Female Gaze in Italian Cinema Since the dawn of cinema, directing has been considered a predominantly male sphere. Italian cinema is certainly no exception: at the beginning of the twentieth century, directors such as Elvira Notari and Elvira Giallanella were considered anomalies. Only in recent decades has the presence of women become less rare, even though they remain a minority. Exploring the film corpus of various Italian directors (from the aforementioned Notari and Giallanella to Lina Wertmüller, Cecilia Mangini, Roberta Torre, all the way down to Emma Dante), the course will ask if there is such a thing as a female gaze, a specific way of looking at the world, at things, at people. ITAL 1400X S01 Primary Instructor Odello The Divina Commedia: Dante's Paradiso: Justifying a Cosmos Close study of the third and final part of Divine Comedy, in which Dante unfolds how, in his view, the planetary and stellar spheres condition human life and fashion the Providential plan of history. There will be ancillary readings from Dante's other works: Convivio, the Monarchia, and the Epistles. In Italian. Prerequisite: ITAL 0500 or 0600, or instructor permission. Enrollment limited to 40. ITAL 1620 S01 Primary Instructor Martinez Independent Study Project (Undergraduate) Undergraduate Independent Study supervised by a member of the Italian Studies Faculty. Students may pursue independent research in order to prepare for their honors thesis or honors multimedia project, or they may enroll in the course in order to work individually with a faculty member on a specific area of Italian Studies not covered in the current course offerings. Section numbers vary by instructor. Please check Banner for the correct section number and CRN to use when registering for this course. ITAL 1920 S01 Primary Instructor Castiglione Schedule Code I: Independent Study/Research ITAL 1920 S02 Primary Instructor Martinez Schedule Code I: Independent Study/Research ITAL 1920 S03 Primary Instructor Stewart-Steinberg Schedule Code I: Independent Study/Research ITAL 1920 S04 Primary Instructor Riva Schedule Code I: Independent Study/Research ITAL 1920 S05 Primary Instructor Fantarella Schedule Code I: Independent Study/Research Senior Conference Special work or preparation of an honors thesis under the direction of a member of the staff. Section numbers vary by instructor. Please check Banner for the correct section number and CRN to use when registering for this course. ITAL 1990 S01 Primary Instructor Castiglione Schedule Code I: Independent Study/Research ITAL 1990 S02 Primary Instructor Martinez Schedule Code I: Independent Study/Research ITAL 1990 S03 Primary Instructor Stewart-Steinberg Schedule Code I: Independent Study/Research ITAL 1990 S04 Primary Instructor Riva Schedule Code I: Independent Study/Research ITAL 1990 S05 Primary Instructor Abbona-Sneider Schedule Code I: Independent Study/Research Microhistory Microhistory emerged in the 1970s in Italy, but was quickly embraced by scholars across the globe. Microhistory questioned totalizing explanations of historical change; rejected anachronism in all forms; and recovered the voices of individuals left out of traditional historical narratives. This course explores and critiques the method. Participants write an article in their area of interest, informed by microhistory. The course is taught in English. ITAL 2050 S01 Primary Instructor Castiglione Italian Studies Colloquium The Italian Studies Colloquium is a forum for an exchange of ideas and work of the community of Italian scholars at Brown and invited outside scholars. Graduate students present their work in progress, and engage the work of faculty and visitors. They are expected to come prepared with informed questions on the topic presented. Presentations in both Italian and English. Instructor permission required. ITAL 2820 S01 Primary Instructor Riva Preliminary Examination Preparation For graduate students who have met the tuition requirement and are paying the registration fee to continue active enrollment while preparing for a preliminary examination. ITAL 2970 S01 Schedule Code E: Graduate Thesis Prep Reading and Research Courses on special subjects individually planned and supervised. Section numbers vary by instructor. Please check Banner for the correct section number and CRN to use when registering for this course. ITAL 2980 S01 Primary Instructor Castiglione Schedule Code I: Independent Study/Research ITAL 2980 S02 Primary Instructor Martinez Schedule Code I: Independent Study/Research ITAL 2980 S03 Primary Instructor Stewart-Steinberg Schedule Code I: Independent Study/Research ITAL 2980 S04 Primary Instructor Riva Schedule Code I: Independent Study/Research ITAL 2980 S05 Schedule Code I: Independent Study/Research Thesis Preparation For graduate students who have met the residency requirement and are continuing research on a full time basis. ITAL 2990 S01 Schedule Code E: Graduate Thesis Prep Academics Undergraduate Program Graduate Program Courses Brown in Bologna Department of Italian Studies Department of Italian Studies Brown University Box 1942 190 Hope Street Providence, RI 02912 Phone: 401-863-1561 Fax: 401-863-3304 Email [email protected] Brown University Giving to Brown Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA 401-863-1000 Contact Us Maps Directions Career Opportunities Campus Safety Accessibility All Social Media © 2022 Brown University | Back to top