Skip to main content Temple University Explore Temple’s Schools and Colleges Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Support Temple Temple University Search Site Search Full Menu Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees President History & Traditions Temple Health News & Media Offices Public Information Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Development Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Libraries Technical Production and Management Major You are here Home Academics Degrees and Programs Technical Production and Management Major Apply Request More Info Technical Production and Management Major Admissions Careers, Internships & Opportunities Productions & Facilities Required Courses Scholarships & Financial Aid Bachelor of Fine Arts in Technical Production and Management Learn the art of stagecraft with the Bachelor of Fine Arts in Technical Production and Management in Temple’s School of Theater, Film and Media Arts. Develop the creative and practical skills needed to manage technical areas of theatrical production. You’ll prepare for a career in theater production management, stage management and technical production. Through the curriculum, students gain insight into several areas relevant to theater, including production management, stage management, technical direction and various design disciplines. The Technical Production and Management BFA caps at 12 students per year, which assures the availability of real-world production work for students during Temple’s theater season. You’ll gain the practical knowledge and hands-on experience necessary to pursue a career or master’s degree after graduation. This major also provides internship opportunities at local theater companies, through which you can hone your artistic and technical skills while building strong contacts to help you form your professional pathway after graduation. Classes & Curriculum The Technical Production and Management Major is a 123-credit program that can be completed in four years. Courses offered in this program include Design Drafting; Introduction to Design; Lighting, Sound, and Video Technology; Production Practicum; Stagecraft; Stage Management; Structural Design for the Stage; Technical Direction for the Theater; Theater Management; Theater Safety and Management; and The Job Market. All students complete the Practicum⁠—Senior Capstone Project and Theater Internship courses for real-world experience in theater management. Learn more about Technical Production and Management Major courses. Tuition & Fees In keeping with Temple’s commitment to access and affordability, the Bachelor of Fine Arts offers a competitive level of tuition with multiple opportunities for financial support. Tuition rates are set annually by the university and are affected by multiple factors, including program degree level (undergraduate or graduate), course load (full- or part-time), in-state or out-of-state residency, and more. Learn more about our tuition and fees. These tuition costs apply to the 2021–2022 academic year. Pennsylvania resident: $18,168.00 per year Out-of-state: $31,440.00 per year Our Academic Advisors The School of Theater, Film and Media Arts academic advisors will help you chart your course through your academic program. They guide you in choosing electives, as well as navigating policies and procedures regarding changes of major, leaves of absence and withdrawals, and registration. Sachiko Nakazato is the academic advisor for the Technical Production and Management Major. Phone: 215-204-3437 Email: sachiko.nakazato@temple.edu Leanna Arnold is the senior academic advisor for the Center for the Performing and Cinematic Arts. Phone: 215-204-2227 Email: leanna.arnold@temple.edu Program Contact For more information on the Technical Production and Management Major, contact the following faculty members. Andrew Laine is faculty technical director in the theater department and a program contact for the Technical Production and Management Major. Phone: 215-204-3150 Email: laine@temple.edu Matthew Miller is faculty stage management head in the theater department and a program contact for the Technical Production and Management Major. Phone: 215-204-4263 Email: mbmiller@temple.edu Student Clubs & Organizations Student clubs and organizations give you the opportunity to gain stage performance or production experience, express yourself without classroom restrictions, and network with other theater professionals. In addition, you can make friends and enhance your social life. Consider joining one or more of the following clubs. Alpha Psi Omega is a nationally recognized honorary theater fraternity that elects Theater majors for membership as reward for their participation in university theater activities. Babel Poetry Collective is a group comprised of MCs, musicians and singers. Babel has off-campus events, open mics, two regular shows per semester and workshops to promote the popularity of poetry. The Musical Theater Cooperative provides students with opportunities such as masterclasses, trips to New York City to see productions and workshops with musical theater professionals, as well as planned performances including cabarets, concerts and readings. “Temple SMASH” is Temple University's first and only televised variety show, produced for students by students. Taped in front of a live studio audience in TV Studio 1 of Annenberg Hall in Klein College of Media and Communication, the show features an array of talent acts including dancers, musical groups, original sketch comedy, short films, stand-up comics and more. Temple Theaters’ Sidestage Season is a group that facilitates Theater students’ professional growth by providing space, producers, marketing and publicity support for student productions. Learn more about clubs and organizations. Study Away Spend a semester in the land of Shakespeare with the London Study Away Program. Live in the heart of London while studying theater. Supplement your coursework with free attendance at nine theatrical productions, courtesy of the American Institute for Foreign Study. You can also take advantage of internship opportunities to work with local English theaters as a box office attendant, clerical assistant, representative production assistant or another position. In addition, you can broaden your education by spending a semester or summer in Los Angeles studying the film industry as part of the Los Angeles Study Away Program. Explore the various facets of filmmaking through meetings with artists and industry professionals, lectures and on-site events, and special programs. Learn more about Temple’s other study away options. Accreditation The Theater Department is accredited by the National Association of Schools of Theatre as well as a member of the University Resident Theatre Association. CA-TPAM-BFA Additional Program Information Visit School Site View Program Details Go back to AcademicsMore in Technical Production and Management Major Admissions Careers, Internships & Opportunities Productions & Facilities Required Courses Scholarships & Financial Aid Apply Request More Info Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Calendar Policies Social Media TUportal TUmail Accessibility Careers at Temple Safety & Emergency Information Ethics & Compliance Privacy Statement Professional Licensure Disclosures Follow Temple University Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community. Apply Request More Info