Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. Tangeman University Center TUC right arrow down arrow Visiting TUC right arrow down arrow Floor Plans Dining right arrow down arrow Catering Convenience Store Vending Services Retail right arrow down arrow UC Bookstores right arrow down arrow Course Materials & Tech Fan Gear For Grads & Alumni, Plus Special Orders Bearcat Card right arrow down arrow Where to Use Your Bearcat Card Terms & Conditions Frequently Asked Questions Information for Merchants PNC Bank & ATMs Convenience Store Services right arrow down arrow Study Spaces MainStreet Connection Center Wepa Print Station Lost & Found Steger Student Life Center (SSLC) Bearcat Promise Career Studio Promotions Request Meetings & Events right arrow down arrow Great Hall Meeting Rooms Other Event Spaces Rates Planning Services Request a Space About TUC right arrow down arrow Larry Elsasser Scholarship & Recipients Video Backgrounds Home » Campus Life » TUC » Retail » Bearcat Card » Terms & Conditions Set Navigation title in component UC Bookstores Course Materials & Tech Fan Gear For Grads & Alumni, Plus Special Orders Bearcat Card Where to Use Your Bearcat Card Terms & Conditions Frequently Asked Questions Information for Merchants PNC Bank & ATMs Convenience Store Terms & Conditions 1. Contract Offer The delivery of this contract by University of Cincinnati Bearcat Card services, to the person named, constitutes a deposit to the Bearcat Card account. This offer is contingent upon its acceptance and return with payment by the person named. 2. Deposits and Withdrawals Cash withdrawals from the Bearcat Card account are not permitted. The Bearcat Card Account will be activated when payment is received; additional deposits may be made at any time. The Bearcat Card Account deposit will not be prorated. A $25 charge will be assessed and the Bearcat Card Account will be deactivated upon receipt of a returned check. 3. University I.D. Card and Bearcat Card Account The cardholder agrees to use and maintain the Bearcat Card to access services in the dining commons or other Bearcat Card locations. The Bearcat Card Account is non-transferable. The participant may be required to sign a receipt for goods and services. 4. Refunds The university agrees to refund the unspent amount in the Bearcat Card Account, in the event that the cardholder withdraws or is dismissed from the university. Refund requests must be submitted by completing the official form. Refund requests from students are accepted at the end of spring semester or when the cardholder graduates, withdraws or leaves the university. Bearcat Card accounts with no activity (defined as a deposit or debit) over a twelve-month period are considered inactive and will be suspended without notice if the balance is less than $25. Inactive accounts with balances over $25 will be assessed an annual $10 service charge. Unless a refund is requested within five years of the last activity, inactive accounts will be closed without notice with any remaining balances forfeited to the University of Cincinnati. Refunds are processed when: The account balance is $5 or more; AND A refund request is submitted. A $5 processing fee will be deducted from the refund.  Tangeman University Center 2766 UC MainStreet Cincinnati, OH 45221 513-556-2831 mainstreet@uc.edu UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati Tangeman University Center 2766 UC MainStreet Cincinnati, OH 45221 513-556-2831 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top