Skip to main content Clemson University Degrees Home Degree Programs MENU Food Science and Human Nutrition (B.S.) LEARN MORE ABOUT Majoring in food science and human nutrition isn’t just about food; it’s about the whole process — from the design to the distribution stages and everything in between. While at Clemson, you’ll follow foods from the seed, through the grocery store and onto our plates. As a food science and human nutrition major, you’ll learn all there is to know about how food impacts the human body and our society. This program is more than just classroom learning, as you’ll spend hours in labs creating and learning about all the wonderful qualities of foods. No matter if you prefer the chemistry of combining food elements, exploring the safety of the foods we buy or aiding a young celiac patient in selecting a safe diet, you’ll leave Clemson prepared to take your career to the next level. FAST FACTS The emphasis in dietetics is accredited by the Accreditation Council for Education in Nutrition and Dietetics (ACEND). Our food science and technology concentration is approved by the Institute of Food Technologists. If eligible your senior year, you can begin graduate course work to earn your master's. Our students develop and market Clemson's famous ice cream through the '55 Exchange. You'll have a chance to study in Belgium and explore this unique intersection where many cultural foods collide. Our students compete nationally for Danisco product development and the Institute of Food Technologists College Bowl. WHAT YOU'LL STUDY As you dive into your food science and human nutrition classes, you’ll learn to apply principles of basic and applied sciences to the design and manufacture of high quality, sustainable, convenient, safe and nutritious foods. Alongside that, you’ll discover how to identify the relationship between nutrients and human health. Our flexible curriculum allows you the opportunity to focus your studies in one of two areas that will support your academic and professional goals. Food Science and Technology Concentration With this concentration, you will be prepared for a career within the food industry at the local, regional, national or global level. You’ll also be able to focus your studies in one of three emphasis areas: Food packaging and manufacturing operations. Sustainable food, nutrition and health. Culinology. All three emphasis areas are approved by the Institute of Food Technologies (IFT). Our Culinary Science emphasis one of a few select national programs approved by the Research Chef’s Association as meeting the requirements for the title of Culinology™. Nutrition Concentration Graduate Clemson prepared for a career in nutrition, dietetics, healthcare and food service. With this concentration you’ll be able to focus your studies in one of four emphasis areas: Dietetics. Basic and behavioral science. Community health and wellness. Food industry. Our dietetics emphasis area is designed for students who are interested in becoming a Registered Dietitian (RD) or Registered Dietitian Nutritionist (RDN). It is accredited by the Accreditation Council for Education in Nutrition and Dietetics (ACEND®) as a Didactic Program in Dietetics (DPD). Combined Bachelor’s/Master’s Program Clemson offers an accelerated five-year combined bachelor’s/master’s program that will allow you to count up to 12 hours of graduate credit toward both your Bachelor of Science in food science and human nutrition and a Master of Science in food, nutrition and culinary sciences. Curriculum Food Science and Human Nutrition: Food Science and Technology Concentration, B.S. Food Science and Human Nutrition: Nutrition Concentration, B.S. Popular Minors Packaging Science Psychology Recreational Therapy Similar Majors Health Science (B.S.) Microbiology (B.S.) Nursing (B.S.) Packaging Science (B.S.) EXPERIENCES BEYOND THE CLASSROOM Food science and human nutrition majors have a variety of opportunities to conduct research and work closely with food scientists. From the state-of-the-art research kitchen to the CU CHEFS outreach program, students can work with food outside the classroom. Clemson Ice Cream Clemson's famous ice cream is made from start to bowl by Clemson students. The student-run shop is on the first floor of the Hendrix Student Center.Learn More » Research Each student is required to take part in Creative Inquiry, our undergraduate research program. A recent team worked with local daycare directors to develop healthier meal planning for adolescents. Create Clemson is home to a state-of-the-art research kitchen where you can formulate new food products and gain a better understanding of food safety. Other facilities include the sensory and culinary research labs. Study Abroad Each summer our students jet off to Brussels, Belgium, and Pamplona, Spain. Courses are offered in flavor development and the art of eating as well as international study of food science, farm to table. CONNECT WITH OTHER STUDENTS Food Science Club Human Nutrition Club Packaging Science Club AFTER GRADUATION Your college decision isn't really about the next four years. We get it. It's about what doors are opened by your degree and whether those opportunities are what you had envisioned for yourself. While the majority of our food science and technology students go into the workforce, our human nutrition students have to complete a nine-month dietetic internship before becoming a registered dietitian. WHERE OUR RECENT GRADUATES HAVE GONE KEY 41-100% 21-40% 11-20% 0-10% RECENT EMPLOYERS Dairy Production Supervisor Coca-Cola Co. Research & Development Technician Apogee Foods Associate Food Scientist Kraft Heinz Associate Scientist Research & Development Leprino Foods Nutritionist Noom RECENT POSTGRADUATE STUDIES M.S. Food Science University of Maine Master of Health Administration Medical University of South Carolina M.S. Nutrition University of Georgia M.S. Dietetics University of Virginia M.D. University of South Carolina School of Medicine COMMON CAREER AREAS Business and Technology Quality Assurance Food Safety Quality Inspection Process Inspection Production Management New Food and Flavor Chemistry Sensory Evaluation Applied Food Research Preserving Processing Packaging Storing Delivering Sales Marketing Consumer Education Science Basic Research Food Microbiology Food Chemistry Product Development Food Engineering Food Safety Quality Inspection Quality Assurance Process Inspection Pre-Professional Medicine Pharmacy Dentistry Veterinary Sciences Other Health Care Fields FIND OUT MORE Have more questions or want more information? Fill out the form below, which goes directly to the following department contact. If you’d also like to receive general University information from Clemson’s admissions office, please follow the link to the right and sign up to join our mailing list. Madison Cutts Coordinator of Student Recruitment mcutts@clemson.edu Department Website College Website Loading... Department Website College Website Home Admissions Campus Life Academics Visit Outreach Research About Apply To Clemson Undergraduate Graduate Professional Online Education Employment Opportunities Policy/Terms of Use Text Version Web Accessibility Ethics/Safety Line Privacy Policy Site Information Copyright © 2015 Clemson University Clemson, South Carolina 29634 864-656-3311 Contact Clemson Stories for the Clemson Family Clemson University on Facebook Clemson University on Twitter Clemson University on Google+ Clemson University on LinkedIn Clemson University on YouTube Clemson University on Flickr Clemson University on Instagram Search Clemson University degrees Clemson Degree Programs Search Alphabetical List Schedule a Visit Campus Life Admissions Costs & Financial Aid Similar Majors To Food Science and Human Nutrition (B.S.) Health Science (B.S.) Microbiology (B.S.) Nursing (B.S.) Packaging Science (B.S.)