Skip to content Columbia University Irving Medical Center Find People Events Faculty and Staff Resources Give Now Search About Us About Us Facts and Figures Explore CUIMC Events Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion at CUIMC Community Development and Alumni Explore CUIMC Leadership and Administration A-Z Listing Affiliated Hospitals Campus Map and Directions Campus Resources Contact CUIMC Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion At CUIMC, we are committed to continuous improvement in providing culturally inclusive medical education and clinical care. Learn About Our Commitment Education Education Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons Mailman School of Public Health School of Nursing College of Dental Medicine VP&S Columbia Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons is dedicated to developing the next generation of leaders in medicine Learn About Our Academic Programs Research Research The Louisa Gross Horwitz Prize Columbia Technology Ventures Research Administration Columbia Clinical Innovation Lab Patient Care Patient Care ColumbiaDoctors Children's Health Columbia Primary Care Herbert Irving Comprehensive Cancer Center ColumbiaDoctors Dentistry Digital Health Services at Columbia Find a Doctor Search for a provider by specialty, expertise, location and insurance. Schedule an appointment online. Find a Doctor News News For the Media Share Your News CUIMC Update CUIMC Celebrates Columbia Medicine Read the latest news stories about CUIMC faculty, research, and events Explore Our News COVID-19 Resources for CUIMC COVID-19 Resources for CUIMC COVID-19 Information for Patients COVID-19 Campus Safety for Employees and Students COVID-19 Vaccine Information For CUIMC Employees and Students COVID-19 Information and Resources for Clinical Staff COVID-19 Vaccine Information Learn about COVID-19 vaccine availability and requirements for employees and students at CUIMC Get the Latest Information Neurology Topics Campus News Research Medical School Public Health Cancer Mental Health Infectious Diseases Neurology Neuroscience Education Heart Health Pediatrics View All Topics Search All News Keywords News Subtopics: Alzheimer's Epilepsy Parkinson's Stroke Top Stories Missing Link Between Alzheimer’s and Vascular Disease Found? A gene called FMNL2 may explain why people with hypertension, diabetes, heart disease, or obesity have a greater risk of developing Alzheimer's disease. Topic Alzheimer's Transient Ischemic Attacks May Be Brief But Need Serious Attention A transient ischemic attack (TIA) is a stroke that usually lasts under five minutes and resolves on its own, but just because the symptoms disappear, does not mean a TIA should be ignored. New Initiative to Develop Personalized Therapies for People with Rare Genetic Forms of ALS A new initiative led by Columbia University and the n-Lorem Foundation will develop personalized therapies for individuals with "nano-rare" genetic forms of ALS and treat them for free, for life. Topic Campus News Genetic Testing for Parkinson’s Disease: What You Need to Know Parkinson’s patients and their families are increasingly turning to genetic testing to learn more about their disease or risk of passing it on. But testing is complex, and counseling is advised. Topic Campus News Latest News Can a Smell Test Sniff Out Alzheimer's Disease? March 28, 2018 Columbia neurologist William Kreisl, MD, explains the potential uses—and limitations—of a smell test in sniffing out Alzheimer's disease risk. Topic Alzheimer's Mitochondrial Disease Patients Face Difficult Road to Diagnosis March 26, 2018 On average, patients see more than eight physicians before being diagnosed with a mitochondrial disease, a new CUIMC study finds. Topic Medical School Hip Hop Music Teaches Children, Parents to Recognize Stroke March 23, 2018 A stroke education program that uses hip hop music increased stroke awareness among economically disadvantaged minority children and their parents. Topic Stroke Outfitting a Football Helmet to Diagnose Concussion January 30, 2018 Researchers from two Columbia University campuses have teamed up to develop a football helmet that detects concussion in real time. Topic Medical School Alzheimer's Drug Targeting Soluble Amyloid Falls Short in a Large Clinical Trial January 24, 2018 Clinical trial shows that solanezumab, an antibody-based treatment for Alzheimer’s disease, does not significantly slow cognitive decline. Topic Alzheimer's Robotic Device Improves Balance and Gait in Parkinson's Patients January 16, 2018 Columbia neurologists and engineers are using a robotic device to investigate how Parkinson’s affects the ability to walk and respond to balance perturbations. Topic Parkinson's Going Outside the Four Walls December 29, 2017 A community wellness center led by two P&S faculty members will strengthen initiatives in stroke prevention and mental health support. Topic Mental Health When Gene Tests Draw a Blank, Try, Try Again December 1, 2017 A new study finds that periodically reanalyzing epilepsy patients' DNA may aid in diagnosis and treatment. Topic Epilepsy Fixing Leaky Blood-Brain Barrier May Help Treat Multiple Sclerosis November 22, 2017 New video that reveals how immune cells breach the blood-brain barrier is giving scientists new ideas about treating multiple sclerosis. Topic Autoimmunity Drop-Off in Dementia in Northern Manhattan Echoes National Trend November 17, 2017 Researchers at Columbia University found that dementia is on the decline in seniors from northern Manhattan, following national trends. Topic Alzheimer's Pages first previous … 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 … next last Columbia University Irving Medical Center NewYork-Presbyterian About Us Careers News Education Patient Care Research Resources at CUIMC Columbia University Irving Medical Center 630 West 168th Street New York, NY 10032 United States Follow Us Facebook Twitter YouTube LinkedIn Instagram Back to top