More details Skip to main content Dartmouth Home Search Index Dartmouth College Office of the Registrar Enrollment Transcript Registration ORC/Catalog Calendars Faculty About Us Request a Transcript View Term Calendar Registration Schedule Final Exam Schedule Related Sites Timetable Change Link Change Link Office of the Registrar Dartmouth College Office of the Registrar 6014 McNutt Hall Hanover, NH 03755-3541 Phone: (603) 646-2246 Fax: (603) 646-2247 Email: registrar@Dartmouth.EDU Guides Course Assessment Introduction Faculty Guides Student Guides Faculty BannerStudent for Faculty Course Election Web/PDF guides Online Grading Guide to Course Assessment Reports IRA (Institutional Reporting and Analysis System) Reference Guide Course Assessment Quick Reference Guide Entering Textbook Information FERPA Staff Course Election Web/PDF guides Students Course Election Web/PDF guides Course Assessment Guides for Students Student Name Change Guide Quicklinks DartHub Banner Forms Guides Course Assessment Timetable of Class Meetings Transfer Terms Glossary of Dartmouth Terminology Annual Report Fast Facts about Dartmouth Home > Guides > D-Plan App Guide The D-Plan app (as shown in the screen shot below) allows students to view and request changes to their Dartmouth D-Plan (enrollment pattern). The rules enforced in this application are based on the College's D-Plan policy, as laid out in the ORC/Catalog. An “On-Term” indicates enrollment at Dartmouth, which includes residency (R) or on an off-campus program (O or X). An “Off-Term” indicates a leave (L) term. A green tile with the word “On” indicates a term in residence while a blue tile with the word “Off” indicates a leave term. A legend in the sidebar explains the colors and symbols in detail (see below). If one of your changes requires an exception to D-Plan policy, click on the view rule link for more information and to access a petition form. Contact your undergraduate dean for advisement. The app provides live updates on the number of on-terms and off-terms in your plan. It also detects if your requested plan requires an exception to D-Plan policy so that you may either adjust your plan or request a petition. The submit button is greyed out until the number of on-terms is correct and there are no policy exceptions required. The sidebar on the left contains useful resources to help you build your plan: Rules: This tab the rules your D-Plan must follow. If the rule is petitionable, a green button labeled “Petition this requirement” links to the appropriate form. Resources: The resources tab contains links to the Undergraduate Dean’s Office, ORC/Catalog, and other relevant resources. Legend: The legend tab explains the meaning of the colors and symbols in the app. VISA Info (international students only): This tab provides guidelines for international students to adjust their D-Plans in accordance with VISA requirements. Contact Us Top of page | Privacy | Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College Last Updated: 1/24/22