Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Health Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Our Services Appointments Health Topics Events Forms and Guidelines Our Organization News See All Services What's Open Now Patient Resources Quarantine and Isolation Support Coping Tools Immunization Compliance Top Services Birth Control Education Individual Counseling Primary Care Register with Disability Services Sexual Assault: Get Support STI Testing Support Groups Travel Medicine Urgent Medical Concerns Workshops and Trainings Cost of Service Overview Make an Appointment Same Day Service Emergency and After-hours Support Alcohol Body Image Concerns Marijuana Disabilities Other Drugs HIV Insurance Men's Health Mental Health and Well-Being Anxiety Depression Stress Nutrition Physical Activity Relationships Overview Academic Relationships Friendships Roommates Sexual and Reproductive Health Sleep Transgender and Gender Expansive Health Violence Prevention Prevention Consent What Is Sexual Assault? Supporting a Survivor What Is Relationship Abuse? Stalking What Is Sexual Harassment? Bystander Intervention-Step UP! Women's Health See All Events Sexual Assault Awareness Month Columbia Health Flu Season Information Virtual Naloxone Training About Columbia Health Who We Are Who We Serve Confidentiality, Patient Rights, & Patient Responsibilities Operating Philosophy Video Library Your Feedback Staff Directory Health Units Alice! Health Promotion Counseling and Psychological Services Disability Services Gay Health Advocacy Project (GHAP) Insurance Office Medical Services Sexual Violence Response Columbia Health You are here: Home All Services HIV Testing and Treatment HIV Testing and Treatment Interested in expedited STI testing? Check if you are eligible for ExpressCollect Testing for the HIV antibody is provided through Columbia Health's Gay Health Advocacy Project. Open to Everyone at Columbia—The service is available free to all students, their partners, staff, and faculty regardless of gender or orientation. Client-centered—Peer counselors are sensitive to your situation, whether it’s your first test or routine testing. They will tailor the session to your needs. Informational—Advocates from the Gay Health Advocacy Project welcome questions about HIV, STIs, vaccines, and safer sex. Non-judgmental—Our goal is to support you through your testing experience and provide you with accurate information. Confidential—Columbia Health upholds strict levels of confidentiality and all counselors are HIPAA-certified. Consult with an Advocate Even if you are not sure that you want a test, you can come in and talk with a peer advocate. Trained advocates from the Gay Health Advocacy Project will work with you to understand confusing and sometimes anxiety-provoking information about HIV and its transmission. We can help you assess and reduce your risk of HIV infection and provide information about the transmission, treatment, and prevention of other sexually transmitted infections (STIs). Advocates are also trained to provide peer counseling about other topics. Treatment and Support for HIV-positive Students The Gay Health Advocacy Project works with other Columbia Health staff to offer the clinical care, support, and information HIV-positive students need to manage infection effectively. All services are covered under the Columbia Student Health Insurance Plan: Individualized care from an HIV specialist Regular monitoring of CD4 and viral load Medications Preventative treatments Psychological support, both individual and through the HIV Positive Support Group. For HIV-positive students who plan to study at Columbia, the Columbia Student Health Insurance Plan provides coverage sufficient for HIV medication prescriptions. If you have other insurance, we will help you connect to services that cover the costs. Contact us at [email protected] with questions. For students with a known or likely exposure to HIV, Gay Health Advocacy Project can facilitate further testing, pre-exposure prophylaxis (PrEP), post-exposure prophylaxis (PEP), and professional support. Related Resources HIV Positive Support Group POZ magazine Centers for Disease Control and Prevention: HIV New York City Department of Health and Mental Hygiene: HIV/AIDS Women Living with HIV Read more about HIV testing, prevention, and treatment resources at Columbia Health. Make an Appointment Closed Sorry, we are closed. Open Now edit location Check out our office locations and hours Health Unit Medical Services Gay Health Advocacy Project (GHAP) Clinical Specialty Sexual and Reproductive Health LGBTQ Columbia Health Administration Wallach Hall, Suite 125, Mail Code 4202, 1116 Amsterdam Avenue · New York, NY 10027 Phone 212-854-2284 Contact Us [email protected] Internal Use Only Login to Access Follow Us Facebook Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close