Skip to main content Skip to main navigation Honors College Menu About Contact Information Events FAQs Give Leadership Honors College Advisory Council News Profiles Social Media Directory Faculty Meet with Us & Learn More! Distinguished Scholars Day Invitation to Excellence Opportunities Experiential Opportunities Baylor 2 Programs Baylor in Washington D.C. The Pulse William Carey Crane Scholars Getterman Scholars Program Application Tips Program Selection Requirements for Consideration Meet Our Getterman Scholars Pre-Health & Science Baylor 2 Medical Track Program Christian Pre-Health Fellowship (CPF) Research & Internship Opportunities Student Research Materials Grant Programs & Majors University Scholars Great Texts Baylor Interdisciplinary Core (BIC) Honors Program Research Faculty Publications Student Research Materials Grant Student Publications Pre-Health & Science Research/Internships Undergraduate Research Assistant Program Scholarships Scholarships for Prospective Students Scholarships for Current Students Scholarships for International Students Study Abroad Study Abroad Scholarships The Honors Residential College Benefits Why Honors (Videos) Choose the Honors College Prestigious Post-Baccalaureate Scholarships & Awards Resources & Events Academic Honors Week Laura Jackson Lecture Drumwright Lecture Career Opportunities & Awards Prestigious Post-Baccalaureate Awards Lecture Videos Publications Recent Faculty Books Student Publications The Pulse Marketing Resources Pre-Advising 2022 Meet Your Major Programs Application Process Application Timeline Honors College Line Camp Questions & Tips Apply Now Give Baylor>Honors College>Resources & Events>Publications>Student Publications Student Publications The Pulse: Undergraduate Journal of Baylor University The Pulse is Baylor University's undergraduate scholarly publication. We publish multiple editions each year, including a printed edition in the spring and other online editions in fall and spring. The Pulse is the forum for top-quality student research in the Honors College and the University at large. Our motto, Scientia Crescat, testifies to our belief that the university is preeminently a place where knowledge grows--through research in library and laboratory, through formal and informal dialogue, and especially through the rich connections of traditional knowledge and emergent discovery. This project of growing knowledge is not the exclusive province of professors. Students make significant contributions to knowledge; this journal seeks to recognize and promote those contributions of Baylor students. See Journal "Endorsements of Surgeon Punishment and Patient Compensation in Rested and Sleep-Restricted Individuals” in JAMA Surgery (2019) Stacy Nguyen, et al. Stacy Nguyen graduated in 2018 as a University Scholar. She worked in Baylor’s Sleep Neuroscience & Cognition Laboratory, and this paper was one of the fruits of her research. Her Honors thesis (advised by Michael K. Scullin) won Baylor’s 2018 Wilson Thesis Award in the Social Sciences. Abstract: "The annual national cost of indemnity payments and legal expenses is $10 billion. Every year, 15% to 20% of US surgeons face a malpractice claim, with each claim requiring nearly 2 years to resolve. Patients are more likely to file a malpractice claim when the error is severe and undisclosed and when the surgeon displays little empathy. Based on evidence from neurobiological research, we hypothesized that a crucial overlooked factor is sleep loss.4 Sleep loss, which permeates hospital and home settings, not only impedes recovery but also amplifies emotional reactions and triggers impulsive behaviors." See Article “Fools and Philosophers: Piccolomini’s Comedic Response to Lucretius” in Pan: Rivista di Filologia Latina (n.s. 7, 2018) Cynthia Liu Cynthia Liu graduated in 2018 as a University Scholar, and is now pursuing an M.A. at Oxford University. She has worked on numerous translation projects, and her Honors thesis (advised by Alden Smith) won Baylor’s 2018 Wilson Thesis Award in the Humanities. Abstract: "The comedy Chrysis of Enea Silvio Piccolomini, later Pope Pius II, echoes Lucretius against a Plautine background, indicating not only the humanist’s debt to classical sources but also his wry wit in adapting one genre in the midst of another for the purpose of commenting on contemporary events." See Article “A Probabilistic Proof of the Vitali Covering Lemma” in Methods of Functional Analysis and Topology (Vol. 24, no. 1, 2018) Ethan Gwaltney, et al. Ethan Gwaltney graduated from the Honors College in 2017 and is now a graduate student in Rice University’s Mathematics department. Ethan was also a Crane Scholar through Baylor’s Institute of Faith and Learning. Abstract: "The classical Vitali Covering Lemma on R states that there exists a constant c > 0 such that, given a finite collection of intervals {Ij} in R, there exists a disjoint subcollection {I˜ j} ⊆ {Ij} such that | ∪ I˜j | ≥ c| ∪ Ij |. We provide a new proof of this covering lemma using probabilistic techniques and Padovan numbers." See Article “Offensive Structural Realism, Peace, and the Concert of Europe in 1871-1890” in Journal of International Relations (Spring, 2017) John Ryan Isaacson John Ryan Isaacson graduated from the Honors College in 2018 with a B.A. in International Studies. He received a Fulbright English Teaching Assistantship to Germany in 2018. Abstract: "This research examines John Mearsheimer’s theory of Offensive Structural Realism and how it applies to the peace that ensued in Europe during the years of 1871-1890. This prolonged peace on the European continent was not due to benign intentions from its Great Powers. Rather, this paper explains the assumptions of Mearsheimer’s theory and shows that European powers did indeed have aggressive intentions towards one another. The peace is in consequence to each power waiting for the correct moment to launch a decisive war. The article will also explore counter-arguments, such as Defensive Structural Realism and the Great Persons theory." See Article Resources & Events Academic Honors Week Laura Jackson Lecture Drumwright Lecture Career Opportunities & Awards Prestigious Post-Baccalaureate Awards Lecture Videos Publications Recent Faculty Books Student Publications The Pulse Marketing Resources Pre-Advising 2022 Meet Your Major Programs Honors College Contact Us ApplyVisitMake a GiftBaylor Interdisciplinary CoreGreat TextsHonors Residential CollegeHonors ProgramUniversity Scholars General Information Colleges, Schools, Libraries & Research Admissions Administration Gateways For... About Baylor Anonymous Reporting Athletics Ask Baylor Bookstore Calendar Campus Map Directory Give Light Give to Baylor Illuminate Mental Health Resources News Pro Futuris Report It Search Social Media Title IX Baylor Libraries College of Arts & Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work George W. Truett Theological Seminary Graduate School Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Louise Herrington School of Nursing Research at Baylor University Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Engineering & Computer Science School of Music More Academics Undergraduate Admissions goBAYLOR Graduate Admissions Baylor Law School Admissions Social Work Graduate Programs George W. Truett Theological Seminary Admissions Online Graduate Professional Education Virtual Tour Visit Campus Annual Fire Safety and Security Notice Athletics Human Resources Marketing and Communications Office of General Counsel Office of the President Office of the Provost Operations, Finance & Administration Senior Administration Student Life University Advancement Baylor Alumni Faculty & Staff Online Graduate Professional Education Parents Prospective Faculty & Staff Prospective Students Students Copyright © Baylor® University. All rights reserved. Legal Disclosures. Baylor University • Waco, Texas 76798 • 1-800-229-5678 About Contact Information Events FAQs Give Leadership Honors College Advisory Council News Profiles Social Media Directory Faculty Meet with Us & Learn More! Distinguished Scholars Day Invitation to Excellence Opportunities Experiential Opportunities Baylor 2 Programs Baylor in Washington D.C. The Pulse William Carey Crane Scholars Getterman Scholars Program Application Tips Program Selection Requirements for Consideration Meet Our Getterman Scholars Pre-Health & Science Baylor 2 Medical Track Program Christian Pre-Health Fellowship (CPF) Research & Internship Opportunities Student Research Materials Grant Programs & Majors University Scholars Great Texts Baylor Interdisciplinary Core (BIC) Honors Program Research Faculty Publications Student Research Materials Grant Student Publications Pre-Health & Science Research/Internships Undergraduate Research Assistant Program Scholarships Scholarships for Prospective Students Scholarships for Current Students Scholarships for International Students Study Abroad Study Abroad Scholarships The Honors Residential College Benefits Why Honors (Videos) Choose the Honors College Prestigious Post-Baccalaureate Scholarships & Awards Resources & Events Academic Honors Week Laura Jackson Lecture Drumwright Lecture Career Opportunities & Awards Prestigious Post-Baccalaureate Awards Lecture Videos Publications Recent Faculty Books Student Publications The Pulse Marketing Resources Pre-Advising 2022 Meet Your Major Programs Application Process Application Timeline Honors College Line Camp Questions & Tips Apply Now Give