Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Apply Visit Give Parents Search BC.edu Links Alumni Menu Main Nav Alumni Donate Back Back Close About Overview Alumni Association Alumni Board Alumni Association Staff Past Alumni Board Presidents Annual Report Leadership Terms of Service Join Our Team Connect Overview Volunteer Councils & Groups Chapters International Hong Kong London Germany Madrid Panama Paris Philippines Singapore Arizona Phoenix California Los Angeles Northern California Orange County Sacramento San Diego Colorado Denver Connecticut Fairfield Hartford Delaware Delaware District of Columbia Washington, D.C. Florida Fort Lauderdale Jacksonville Miami Orlando Palm Beach Sarasota Southwest Florida Tampa Georgia Atlanta Hawaii Hawaii Illinois Chicago Indiana Indianapolis Kentucky Kentucky Louisiana New Orleans Maine Maine Maryland Baltimore Massachusetts Boston Cape Cod Western Massachusetts Michigan Detroit Minnesota Minnesota Missouri Kansas City St. Louis Nebraska Omaha Nevada Las Vegas New Hampshire New Hampshire New Jersey Jersey Shore New Jersey New York Albany Buffalo Long Island New York City Rochester Westchester North Carolina Charlotte Triangle Ohio Cincinnati Cleveland Columbus Oregon Portland Pennsylvania Philadelphia Pittsburgh Puerto Rico Puerto Rico Rhode Island Rhode Island South Carolina South Carolina Tennessee Nashville Texas Austin Dallas Houston San Antonio Utah Utah Vermont Vermont Washington Seattle Wisconsin Milwaukee Class and School Engagement Spirituality On Eagles Wings Reflections Advent Reflections Lenten Reflections Reflections Reflections Social Media Pine Manor Alumni Hub Related Links Reunion BC Athletics Events Overview Reunion Weekend Pops on the Heights Family Weekend Global Days of Service Distinguished Volunteer Awards Dinner Winter Wonderland Benefits & Services Overview Career & Networking Alumni Benefits Giving Overview Gift Policy The Impact of Your Gift Give Online Gift Planning Giving Societies The 1863 Society McElroy Circle Bapst Circle Fulton Circle Gasson Circle Monan Circle The William B. Neenan, S.J., Society The Shaw Society Boston College Call Center Apply to Work at the Boston College Call Center Donate Close Directory A to Z Listing Search Alumni & Friends Search BC.edu Find pages or people Search Close Close Apply Visit Give Parents BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close Monan Circle Home Giving Giving Societies The 1863 Society Monan Circle The 1863 Society McElroy Circle Bapst Circle Fulton Circle Gasson Circle Monan Circle Monan Circle — $25,000 + The highest circle of the 1863 Society, the Monan Circle honors the most transformative of BC donors. Named after the 24th president of Boston College, Donald Monan, SJ, the Monan Circle offers maximum impact, engagement, and access to its members. Father Monan inherited the presidency in 1972 amid financial, social, and political turmoil. Through an unprecedented 24-year tenure, Monan artfully ushered Boston College to financial solvency, inclusion, and academic excellence. His transformational leadership catapulted our great university into a new era of prominence and impact on the national and international stage. Monan Circle donors are the new transformers and support BC with an annual gift of $25,000 or more for maximum philanthropic impact and engagement with BC. Benefits Membership in the Monan Circle, the highest donor circle of the 1863 Society, comes with many benefits: Invitation to exclusive virtual and in-person conversations with faculty and administrative leaders Digital subscription to Beacon magazine, BC’s major giving impact publication Opt-in to receive a copy of the First Year Academic Convocation book (selection will change annually) Opportunity to have your story featured in BC communications Personal University liaison to facilitate your 1863 Society membership Opportunities to participate in BC giveaways Opt-in to receive an e-book by a BC author (selection will change annually) Member discounts for BC Athletics tickets (selection will change annually) Impact updates on how your giving helps thousands of students fulfill their potential Invitations to exclusive events recognizing your leadership support throughout the year Private reception with the President during your Reunion Weekend at BC If you are a BC parent, gifts of this size also qualify you for the Parents Leadership Council (PLC) How Your Donation Makes a Difference Boston College Fund Monan gifts can create a need-based scholarship in your name awarded to a BC undergraduate student for one year. *This unrestricted fund provides flexibility for fund designation to those areas in most need. William J. Flynn Fund Monan gifts can establish a Flynn Fund Scholarship in your name—and have an immediate impact on a scholar-athlete as they pursue their goals at the Heights. Wall Street Council Scholarship Fund Monan gifts to the Wall Street Council Scholarship Fund generate individual scholarships for Boston College Gabelli Presidential Scholars. Created to support the brightest minds and most promising scholars, these are the only merit-based, full-tuition scholarships offered by BC. “We believe in the Jesuit value of living an enlightened life. We also understand that the BC experience can be financially out of reach for many deserving students, which is why we choose to support BC. We want to help others pursue their own personal journey of education and service.” Geraldine '83 and Mark Tarini '82, P'21 ►How to Join Interested in joining or learning more about the Monan Circle? Fill out our contact form below and a BC representative will contact you within 48 hours. Back To Top Back To Top Boston College Alumni Association Cadigan Alumni Center 140 Commonwealth Ave. Chestnut Hill, MA 02467 Connect With Us Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkedIn Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College For updates on Boston College's reopening for fall semester visit bc.edu/reopen. Ok