Skip to main content Skip to main navigation Diversity & Inclusion Menu Leadership Commitment Future Gilbert-Walker Statue President's Diversity Council Faculty Development and Diversity Commitment to Diversity and Inclusion Developing Cultural Humility Diversity Updates Human Sexuality at Baylor Frequently Asked Questions Policy Commission on Historic Campus Representations Academic Programs Xavier University Exchange Program Baylor Interdisciplinary Core Women's and Gender Studies McNair Scholars Program Campus Involvement Active Citizenship Campus Communities Student Organizations and Greek Life THIS Matters Global Baylor Train & Learn Students Staff & Faculty Cultural Events Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. Day Community Events Resources Baylor Free Food Events Campus Diversity Committee Diversity Enhancement Grant Diversity Enhancement Award Cultural Events Experience for Religiously Diverse Students Communities of Faith Religious Observance Calendar The Good Neighbor Project Report It! The Career Closet Women's Colloquium Dr. Beverly Daniel Tatum Report It! Baylor>Diversity & Inclusion>Leadership Commitment>Diversity Updates Diversity Updates May 5 2022 Reid appointed Vice Provost for Faculty Diversity & Belonging I am pleased to share with you that Stephen B. Reid, Ph.D., Professor of Christian Scriptures with Baylor’s George W. Truett Theological Seminary, has been selected to serve in a new position as the University’s Vice Provost for Faculty Diversity & Belonging. Apr 25 2022 Ad Unitatem: Toward Unity Diversity and equity are not zero-sum games. Consider one of the texts of Scripture that we often try to qualify, which can be found in each of the three Synoptic Gospels: Jesus’ conversation with the rich young ruler. Feb 8 2022 Ad Unitatem: Toward Unity When Black historian Carter Woodson initiated the first Negro History Week in 1926, he did so with the hope that it would eventually no longer be necessary. He hoped that education about Black history would become so mainstream that a week would become redundant. Feb 2 2022 Black History Month Events Baylor University and the Waco community celebrates Black History Month and the rich culture and heritage of African Americans who shaped the history of the United States. Dec 1 2021 Ad Unitatem: Toward Unity November called us to observe Native American Heritage Month, which ought to drive us to deep reflection. As we draw attention to the contributions of our Indigenous brothers, sisters and neighbors, we cannot forget that the land on which we stand was acquired by force and without regard for its original inhabitants. Sep 22 2021 Ad Unitatem: Toward Unity It has been rightly said that talent is equally distributed, but opportunity is not. If there is one thing you must know about the work of building a just and equitable community at Baylor University, it is this: diversity and inclusion mean little without equity and accountability. Sep 15 2021 A Diverse and Dynamic Community of Faith Baylor University places a priority on enhancing diversity and equity across our campus and throughout our academic and operational divisions. Jun 28 2021 Ad Unitatem: Toward Unity We have reached the summer months, months that offer a bit of respite from the productive, yet sometimes grinding school year. This is a time to breathe, to recalibrate and to rest. Jun 28 2021 Q&A with Faith Perkins, Assistant Vice President for Talent Development Spotlighting work going on among Baylor’s staff to continue building a culture of justice and equity. Apr 23 2021 Message regarding recent student incident I am writing to provide you with an update on a reported incident of a physical assault on one of our Asian American students early Sunday morning that included the use of racial slurs. Apr 20 2021 Ad Unitatem: Newsletter on Equity and Campus Engagement As you read this, you have access to the report from the Commission on Historic Campus Representations. Whether you have read it or not (at over 90 pages, it’s a significant work!), there may be questions swirling in your mind: Why does this matter? What will the University do? How will this shape my campus experience now? Apr 20 2021 Q&A with Lori Baker, Ph.D. Spotlighting work going on among Baylor's faculty to continue building a culture of justice and equity. Mar 23 2021 Baylor University Releases Independent Report of Commission on Historic Campus Representations WACO, Texas (March 23, 2021) – Baylor University today released the full independent and unedited report of the 26-member Commission on Historic Campus Representations, which was charged by the Baylor Board of Regents with independently reviewing and evaluating the historical record and context of the University and its early leaders solely related to slavery and the Confederacy. Feb 22 2021 Baylor University Hosts ARC (Athletics, Race, Christianity) Talks Feb. 25 WACO, Texas (Feb. 22, 2021) – The inaugural ARC (Athletics, Race, Christianity) Talks, hosted by the Faith & Sports Institute, Baylor Athletics and the Black Church Studies Program at Baylor University’s George W. Truett Theological Seminary, will take place from 7 to 8:30 p.m. Thursday, Feb. 25. Feb 19 2021 Baylor Board of Regents Accepts Independent Report from Commission on Historic Campus Representations WACO, Texas (Feb. 19, 2021) - At its quarterly meeting held virtually, the Baylor University Board of Regents officially accepted the final report of the Commission on Historic Campus Representations, passing a resolution that expressed its gratitude to the 26 members of the Commission and sets a path forward for the University Administration to develop an action plan of the Commission's recommendations for Board consideration. Feb 8 2021 Ad Unitatem: Newsletter on Equity and Campus Engagement Baylor University places a strategic priority on enhancing equity across our campus and throughout our academic and operational divisions. In order to better share achievements and initiatives related to this effort, we have created this newsletter which will be distributed every other month as a source of information for you and the greater Baylor Family. Sep 25 2020 A Statement From the Big XII Association of Diversity Officers in Higher Education The Big XII Association of Diversity Officers in Higher Education acknowledges the pain, hurt, confusion, and hopelessness many people have been feeling following the ruling in the Breonna Taylor case. Aug 19 2020 A Welcoming, Uplifting Community In only a few days, we will have the great joy of welcoming back to our campus the thousands of men and women who call Baylor University home as students. This Monday, the first official day of class for the fall semester, is a day for which all of us have been yearning and diligently preparing for months. Jul 17 2020 Baylor University Board of Regents Hosts Quarterly Meeting, Discusses Plans for Fall Semester in Midst of COVID-19 WACO, Texas (July 17, 2020) – The Baylor University Board of Regents gathered virtually Thursday and Friday for its quarterly regular meeting to discuss and receive updates on numerous items, including the University’s plans for the fall semester in light of COVID-19 and the launch of the Commission on Historic Campus Representations. Jul 14 2020 Baylor University Announces Trailblazer Scholars Program WACO, Texas (July 14, 2020) – Baylor University today announced the establishment of the Trailblazer Scholars Program, a scholarship program designed to recognize the importance of fostering diversity and mutual respect at Baylor University. Launching the program with $5 million in scholarship support, the University will actively engage alumni and donors to support growth in the program, with a goal of providing a cohort of 80 or more students scholarship support through Trailblazer Scholarships. Jul 6 2020 eNews: Baylor University Announces Charges, Members of Commission on Historic Campus Representations Many years ago, Baylor University made a strong commitment to reflect the racial diversity of God’s creation among our students, faculty and staff. Through various task forces, the President's Diversity Council and other initiatives, significant progress has been made in several areas, including admissions, faculty hiring and our campus climate, to name a few. Yet we recognize we must do more as Baylor strives to be a caring Christian community for all of our students, faculty, staff, alumni and friends. Jun 2 2020 Our calling to act justly, love mercy and walk humbly The events of the past few weeks have filled me with great sorrow over the senseless and inexcusable killing of George Floyd and in remembrance of the terrible deaths of Ahmaud Arbery, Breonna Taylor and too many other black men, women and children. We have once again seen our country’s deep divide over race, justice and inequality come to light. May 29 2020 President Livingstone's Statement on Racism and Violence My heart is broken as I join with our Baylor students, faculty, staff and alumni in deep grief and prayer over the pain, fear, anger and injustice caused by disturbing events of racism and violence in our nation. Dec 13 2019 Baylor Model UN Named Outstanding Delegation at National Model United Nations Conference in Washington, D.C. WACO, Texas (Dec. 13, 2019) — Baylor University’s Model United Nations (MUN) team was named an “Outstanding Delegation” at the 2019 National Model United Nations Conference, Nov. 8-10 in Washington, D.C. Dec 2 2019 How Often People Worship Is More Important than Where They Worship When It Comes to Being Good Neighbors WACO, Texas (Dec. 2, 2019) – Americans travel farther on average to their worship places than they did a decade ago. But while those who belong to a congregation in their neighborhood attend more often, “worshipping local” does not make them feel closer to their neighbors or more satisfied with the neighborhood, according to a new study by researchers at Baylor University and Calvin University. Are you looking for more Diversity Updates? Archives Leadership Commitment Future Gilbert-Walker Statue President's Diversity Council Faculty Development and Diversity Commitment to Diversity and Inclusion Developing Cultural Humility Diversity Updates Human Sexuality at Baylor Frequently Asked Questions Policy Commission on Historic Campus Representations General Information Colleges, Schools, Libraries & Research Admissions Administration Gateways For... About Baylor Anonymous Reporting Athletics Ask Baylor Bookstore Calendar Campus Map Directory Give Light Give to Baylor Illuminate Mental Health Resources News Pro Futuris Report It Search Social Media Title IX Baylor Libraries College of Arts & Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work George W. Truett Theological Seminary Graduate School Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Louise Herrington School of Nursing Research at Baylor University Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Engineering & Computer Science School of Music More Academics Undergraduate Admissions goBAYLOR Graduate Admissions Baylor Law School Admissions Social Work Graduate Programs George W. Truett Theological Seminary Admissions Online Graduate Professional Education Virtual Tour Visit Campus Annual Fire Safety and Security Notice Athletics Human Resources Marketing and Communications Office of General Counsel Office of the President Office of the Provost Operations, Finance & Administration Senior Administration Student Life University Advancement Baylor Alumni Faculty & Staff Online Graduate Professional Education Parents Prospective Faculty & Staff Prospective Students Students Copyright © Baylor® University. All rights reserved. Legal Disclosures. Baylor University • Waco, Texas 76798 • 1-800-229-5678 Leadership Commitment Future Gilbert-Walker Statue President's Diversity Council Faculty Development and Diversity Commitment to Diversity and Inclusion Developing Cultural Humility Diversity Updates Human Sexuality at Baylor Frequently Asked Questions Policy Commission on Historic Campus Representations Academic Programs Xavier University Exchange Program Baylor Interdisciplinary Core Women's and Gender Studies McNair Scholars Program Campus Involvement Active Citizenship Campus Communities Student Organizations and Greek Life THIS Matters Global Baylor Train & Learn Students Staff & Faculty Cultural Events Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. Day Community Events Resources Baylor Free Food Events Campus Diversity Committee Diversity Enhancement Grant Diversity Enhancement Award Cultural Events Experience for Religiously Diverse Students Communities of Faith Religious Observance Calendar The Good Neighbor Project Report It! The Career Closet Women's Colloquium Dr. Beverly Daniel Tatum Report It!