COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW Details: Chemistry - Biochemistry, Major MajorChemistry - Biochemistry All Programs Fairmount College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Chemistry and Biochemistry The Bachelor of Science (BS) in chemistry—biochemistry option—from Wichita State combines its quality curriculum with top-notch facilities for student-faculty research. You'll learn from professors who are active in their fields. And you'll develop the knowledge and skills needed for success in graduate school and for a wide variety of chemistry-related careers. Learn how the chemistry - biochemistry is the right fit for you. Request Info Start Your Application Applied learning at Wichita State At Wichita State, applied learning is everything. In fact, every degree we offer has a guaranteed applied learning or research experience built right into it equipping you with the relevant skills and experience to make you workforce ready before graduation. Learn about our innovative approach Admission to the program To be admitted to the Fairmount College of Liberal Arts and Sciences, you must first be admitted to Wichita State. For WSU's admission requirements, and to apply, click the link below. Admission requirements Inside the Program Student researchers turn attention to cancer cells As a biochemistry student, you have the opportunity to work with faculty who are on the cutting edge of research. Moriah Beck, assistant professor of chemistry at Wichita State, focuses much of her research on how cancer spreads. In her lab, which includes nine undergraduate and graduate students, she researches the human protein called palladin, a key regulator of our cells' most abundant protein actin. Curriculum This program provides in-depth study of chemistry—in addition to building your background in biology, math and physics—and is ideal if you're interested in pursuing an advanced degree in chemistry or biochemistry. Once you complete this program, you'll also receive the American Chemical Society certification. View the curriculum Careers A biochemistry degree from Wichita State can open doors to high-demand, high-paying jobs in many fields—from research and teaching to consulting and pharmaceutical manufacturing. Learn more about careers in this field Similar Programs Chemistry Biological Sciences Biomedical Engineering Forensic Sciences 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©