Skip to main content SMU Explore SMU Academics Student Affairs About News Events Calendar SMU Research Bush Center Current Students Alumni Faculty & Staff Apply to SMUGIVE NOW Undergraduate Admission Apply Visit Financial Aid Menu Search Undergraduate Admission Visit Maps and Directions Maps and Directions Visit Virtual Campus Experience In-Person Visit Virtual Tour Admission Events Maps and Directions Residential Commons Tour Where to Stay Getting Here Physical Address: Laura Lee Blanton Building 6185 Airline Road, 2nd Floor Dallas, TX 75275 Phone: 214-768-2058 Fax: 214-768-1083 Email: ugadmission@smu.edu Bordered by North Central Expressway (U.S. 75) on the east, Hillcrest Avenue on the west, Mockingbird Lane on the south and Daniel Avenue on the north, SMU is located in the neighborhood of University Park. From U.S. Highway 75 (North Central Expressway) Traveling south, take the Lovers Lane/University Boulevard/SMU Boulevard exit. Turn right (west) onto SMU Boulevard, continue straight past the George W. Bush Presidential Center on your left. At the second stop sign at Airline Road, turn Left. Notice the Laura Lee Blanton Building directly in front of you. At the stop sign at Binkley Avenue, turn right; the Binkley Parking Center will be on your left. Traveling north, take the Mockingbird Lane/SMU Boulevard exit. Turn left (west) onto SMU Boulevard, and continue to Binkley Parking Center, described above. From Dallas North Tollway Exit Mockingbird Lane, proceed east past the SMU Bishop Blvd. entrance and Ford Stadium on your left, across U.S. Highway 75 (North Central Expressway). Turn left (north) onto the access road and proceed to the stop light at SMU Boulevard, where you will turn left. Cross back over U.S. Highway 75/North Central Expwy., entering campus on SMU Blvd. Continue straight to Airline Road, reaching the Binkley Parking Center, as described above. From Denton Traveling south on IH-35E, exit east on IH-635 (LBJ Freeway). Proceed to U.S. Highway 75 (North Central Expressway) and exit south toward downtown. Follow the directions provided for U.S. Highway 75, above. From Waco Traveling north on IH-35E, exit east on the Woodall Rogers Freeway just north of Downtown Dallas. Proceed east for one mile and exit north to U.S. Highway 75 (North Central Expressway). Follow the directions provided for U.S. Highway 75, above. From D/FW International Airport Take the North Exit from the airport to IH-635 (LBJ Freeway). Proceed to U.S. Highway 75 (North Central Expressway) and exit south toward downtown. Follow the directions provided for U.S. Highway 75, above. From Dallas Love Field Airport Exit left (east) from the airport onto Mockingbird Lane. Go east on Mockingbird Lane, bearing right at the curve and continuing straight through Lemmon Avenue, Inwood Road, and the Dallas North Tollway. Follow the directions provided for the Dallas North Tollway, above. Visitor Parking Visitor Parking: If you registered for a Daily Visit or an admission event, please reference your confirmation email for your SMU Parking Permit. For more information on Daily Visit and Admission Events, please click here. For visitors without an SMU Parking Permit, SMU provides several options to either purchase a temporary parking permit or use the park and pay machines or Parkmobile meter locations through campus. Temporary parking permits may be obtained from the Parking and ID Card Services Office Monday thru Friday 8:30 a.m. – 5:00 p.m. or visitor permits can be purchased and printed online here. PLEASE NOTE: When entering campus on SMU Blvd., the first parking center you will see is Moody Parking Center on your left. Proceed past this Center and continue on to Binkley Parking Center, as described above. Buses and Oversized Vans: Buses and Oversized Vans: All buses and oversized vans must contact the Parking and ID Card Services Office to reserve a parking space if they are staying while guests are visiting campus. Limited space is available and parking spaces will be allocated on a first come first serve basis. To reserve your parking space, please complete the Campus Bus Form online. Once buses arrive, guests are to exit the bus on Bishop Boulevard and then buses will report to the parking space designated to them by Parking and ID Services. If you have any questions, please don’t hesitate to contact the Parking and ID Card Services Office by calling (214)768-7275 or emailing parking@smu.edu. Flying into Dallas Dallas Love Field Airport 8008 Herb Kelleher Way, Dallas, TX 75235 4.6 Miles to SMU Uber/Lyft: $11 - one way Dallas Yellow Cab: $21 flat rate - one way DFW International Airport 2400 Aviation Drive, DFW Airport, TX 75261 22.7 Miles to SMU Uber/Lyft: $32 - one way Dallas Yellow Cab: $21 flat rate - one way View SMU Admission Directions in a larger map Apply NowVisit Us Back to top Academics Cox School of Business Dedman College of Humanities and Science Dedman School of Law Lyle School of Engineering Meadows School of the Arts Moody School of Graduate and Advanced Studies Perkins School of Theology Simmons School of Education & Human Development SMU CAPE SMU Libraries The Guildhall Audience Links Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Alumni Faculty & Staff Media Parents Quick Links SMU Ignited: Boldly Shaping Tomorrow COVID-19 Information (Mustang Strong) Bush Center SMU Store Academic Calendar Events Calendar Employment Giving to SMU Virtual Tour Get in Touch Contact Us Maps Directions Compliance Legal Disclosures Report Sexual Harassment Reporting a BIAS Incident HEERF Reporting Emergency Preparedness Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkedIn YouTube © Southern Methodist University, PO Box 750100, Dallas, TX 75275 Apply First-Year Domestic Student* Application First-Year International Student* Application Transfer Forms and Applications Readmission to SMU Graduate Studies FAQs | Undergraduate Temporary Test-Optional Policy Visit Virtual Campus Experience In-Person Visit Virtual Tour Admission Events Maps and Directions Residential Commons Tour Where to Stay Academics Majors and Minors Schools Faculty Virtual Connections Support and Resources Honors and Scholars Tips SMU Abroad SMU-in-Taos FAQs | Academics Campus Life SMU and Dallas Residence Life Dining Health and Safety Spirit and Traditions Diversity At SMU Activities and Organizations Fitness and Recreation Sports Spiritual Life En Espanol FAQs | Living on Campus FAQs | Student Life Financial Aid Cost of Attendance Types of Aid Access SMU Financial Aid Process Payment Plan Options SMU Net Price Calculator Mustang Scholars Robert H. Dedman Scholarship for North Dallas High School En Español Contact Us Deadlines FAQs FAQs | Financial Aid FAQs | Tuition, Fees, and Deadlines Scholarships and Assistance Connect Meet Your Admission Counselor School Contacts Request Information High School Counselor Information Parent Information Social Media and Zoom Backgrounds Frequently Asked Questions Publications Student Ambassadors Coronavirus (COVID-19) Updates Incoming and Current Students Prospective Student Publications Wallpapers International How to Apply Visit SMU Life in Dallas Living at SMU International Student Events Intercultural Engagement Athletics at SMU Spirit and Traditions Immigration Information Obtaining an I-20 Transfer Benefits of an SMU Education Transfer Scholarships Transfer Admission Application Process Transfer Dates and Deadlines Transfer Pathway Guides Transfer Equivalency Tool Meadows Auditions and Portfolios Transfer Forms and Applications International Transfer Students FAQs Congratulations on your admission to SMU! How Credits Transfer Partnership Programs Menu Search Search Submit Popular Searches Apply Academics Campus Life Majors and Minors Visit Financial Aid Did you know? SMU's main campus is located in the nation's fourth largest metropolitan area, Dallas-Fort Worth, with 7.4 million people and more than 20 Fortune 500 headquarters.Learn More Menu Search