Skip to main content MyUW Calendar Directories Libraries UW Medicine Maps UW News Helpful Links Computing/IT ISC/Workday Husky Card UW Bothell UW Tacoma UW Facebook UW Twitter University of Washington University of Washington Students Parents Faculty & Staff Alumni Quick Links Financial Aid Home Getting started Eligibility How need is determined Expected family contribution Net price calculator Student budgets Husky Promise Applying for aid Key dates and deadlines Application process Award process Maintain eligibility Summer quarter Types of aid Scholarships Grants Work Study Loans Childcare Assistance Program Veterans Benefits Emergency aid Emergency Food Assistance Other assistance Receiving aid Disbursement Appeals and special circumstances Request changes to your award Satisfactory academic progress Forms & resources Forms Consumer Information Glossary of Terms for Award Notifications Loan repayment Tax benefits Withdrawal and refund Financial aid code of conduct Money management Emergency Relief Fund Higher Education Emergency Relief Fund III Washington Emergency Relief Grant Higher Education Emergency Relief Fund II CARES Act FAQs Processing and Response Timelines Contact us My Financial Aid Consolidation Menu Financial Aid Home Getting started Eligibility How need is determined Expected family contribution Net price calculator Student budgets Husky Promise Applying for aid Key dates and deadlines Application process Award process Maintain eligibility Summer quarter Types of aid Scholarships Grants Work Study Loans Childcare Assistance Program Veterans Benefits Emergency aid Emergency Food Assistance Other assistance Receiving aid Disbursement Appeals and special circumstances Request changes to your award Satisfactory academic progress Forms & resources Forms Consumer Information Glossary of Terms for Award Notifications Loan repayment Tax benefits Withdrawal and refund Financial aid code of conduct Money management Emergency Relief Fund Higher Education Emergency Relief Fund III Washington Emergency Relief Grant Higher Education Emergency Relief Fund II CARES Act FAQs Processing and Response Timelines Contact us My Financial Aid Home Student Financial Aid Forms and resources Loan repayment Consolidation Loan repayment Home Loan repayment How to pay Repayment options Cancellation Postponing repayment Consolidation Avoiding default Loan consolidation is a method of refinancing federal educational loans. In a loan consolidation, the loans included in consolidation are repaid in full with a new loan that has a fixed interest rate. The new consolidated loan is then payable according to the terms of the new loan, sometimes with the option of a longer repayment period. Interest rates The interest rate for both Direct and FFEL Consolidation loans is a fixed rate for the life of the loan. the fixed rate is based on the weighted average of the interest rates on all of the loans you consolidate, rounded up to the nearest one-eighth of 1 percent. However, the interest rate will never exceed 8.25%. Loans that can be included Loans eligible for consolidation include Stafford/GSL and FISL Loans, HEAL Loan, Perkins/NDSL Loan, Nursing Loans, SLS and ALAS Loans, HPSL Loans, LDS Loans, PLUS Loans (students and parents consolidate separately), GPLUS Loans and Consolidation Loans. Things to consider Loan consolidation can offer you benefits to help manage your education debt. Make lower monthly payments by increasing the repayment period Make one single loan payment a month Have only one lender for all your educational loan debt Lock in a lower, fixed interest rate There are times when consolidation may not be right for you. Certain benefits, such as cancellation benefits, and interest subsidies, may no longer be available For some loans, you may lose your grace period and some deferment and cancellation provisions If you are close to repaying off your loans, it might not make sense to extend your repayment period as it may add additional interest costs To apply You can apply on the Student Loans website or if you have direct loans only you can call 1-800-557-7392 to apply. You can also complete a paper application by calling the number above to request the application. If you wish to keep prior consolidation loans separate you should apply on-line or with a paper application. Once your consolidation has been processed, the Direct Loan Servicer will send you a list of the loans that are included in the consolidation. Please review this list carefully to make sure only the loans you asked to be consolidated are being added to the new consolidation loan. Home Loan repayment How to pay Repayment options Cancellation Postponing repayment Consolidation Avoiding default Resources Applying for Financial Aid Parent Plus Loan New Borrowers of Federal Student Loans Contact us Send us a message Visit Contact us for office location, directions and mailing address. Federal School Code Our Title IV federal school code is 003798. This code is used for Seattle, Bothell and Tacoma campuses. About us Our mission is to provide educational access and opportunity for all students. We promote participation in higher education by providing programs of assistance to help bridge the gap between the cost of attending the University and the family’s own resources. We believe students from all economic backgrounds should have the opportunity to attend the University of Washington. Finances should not be a barrier to getting a world-class education. University of Washington Be boundless Connect with us: Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Pinterest Accessibility Contact Us Jobs Campus Safety My UW Rules Docket Privacy Terms Newsletter © 2022 University of Washington | Seattle, WA