Skip navigation Information For: Current Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Brown University Brown Grad School About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life A to Z Index People Directory Graduate School Financing & Support Internal Funding & Appointments Joukowsky Summer Research Award Graduate School Skip to Navigation Joukowsky Summer Research Award The Joukowsky Summer Research Award provides additional funding for scholarly activities outside of Brown during the summer months. Students conducting research or traveling for other academic purposes (such as language programs or summer workshops) from May through August can apply for $500-$1500 in funding from the Graduate School. The application period is January 1 through the last day of February. The awards will be highly competitive as funds are limited, and will be based on academic merit and projected impact on the student’s research trajectory or academic training. Proposals will be reviewed by the Graduate School and award notifications will be sent to applicants by April 15. All applications and associated documentation must be submitted online through UFunds. Please email [email protected] with any questions. Award Eligibility: Doctoral students in years 1 - 6; doctoral students with a COVID Appointment Extension; MFA students in Literary Arts or Playwriting Doctoral students in years 1-6 or doctoral students with a COVID Appointment Extension and MFA students in Literary Arts and Playwriting are eligible to apply. Master’s students outside of Literary Arts and Playwriting are not eligible. Students enrolled in degree programs in the Division of Biology and Medicine are not eligible; please see the BioMed Travel Awards. DGS support for your application All applicants must provide documented support from their DGS. DGS support is requested and submitted through UFunds using the ‘Request Recommendations From’ section of the UFunds application). Conducting research or traveling for other academic purposes between May and August Students must provide a one-page description of their proposed research activities and the impact a research award would have in advancing their graduate studies or completing thesis work. Provide documentation of external grants supporting your summer research, if applicable Students should provide documentation of external grants they have won to support their summer research study plans, as well as any relevant supporting award communications. Please note that preference is given to external award recipients, however external awards are not required for students to be eligible. Submit an application between January 1 and the last day of February Applications must be submitted through UFunds by the last day of February in the academic year preceding the summer research period. Late and incomplete applications will not be considered. Provide an approved Safety Plan, if applicable All students are required to register their travel plans in TravelSafe (for both domestic and international travel). In addition, some international travel destinations require completion of a Safety Plan via TravelSafe and approval from the Global Travel Risk Assessment Committee (GTRAC). Check Brown’s current travel guidelines and requirements on the International Travel Risk Management webpage or the Travel Policies webpage to determine if GTRAC approval is required for travel to your intended destination. *Please note that you can submit your Joukowsky Summer Research Award application even if you're not able to include documentation of an approved Safety Plan at the time of submission. Your application will be reviewed and, if accepted, funding will be contingent on your ability to travel to the destination per Brown's policies. Using your Joukowsky Summer Research Award The Joukowsky Summer Research Award is processed as a reimbursement through a student’s home department. Prepaid expenses such as airfare and prepaid hotel rooms can be submitted for reimbursement prior to travel. Expenses that are not paid for in advance, as well as per diem meals can be submitted once the student returns from travel. All documentation should be submitted to a student’s home department for processing within 30 days of the completion of travel. Please refer to the Graduate Travel Fund Reimbursement Guidelines for details about the reimbursement process and what documentation to submit. Other Research Opportunities Graduate School Travel Funding Summary Doctoral Research Travel Grant Conference Travel Fund International Travel Fund Graduate Student Council Conference and External Travel Funding Global Mobility Research Fellowship Student Research Grants in Judaic Studies Home About the Graduate School Healthy Brown FAQs for Graduate Students Academics & Research Living & Resources Financing & Support Tuition & Fees Health and Dental Insurance Financial Considerations Master's Funding Ph.D. Funding Internal Funding & Appointments Student Loans Student Employment Student Payroll Procedures Admitted Students & Orientation Application Information For Graduate Students For Faculty and Staff Related Items UFUNDS Online Application Graduate Travel Fund Reimbursement Guidelines Research at Brown International Travel Information Global Mobility Research Fellowship Brown University Brown University Graduate School Box 1867 Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-2600 Maps & Directions / Contact Us / Accessibility © 2022 Brown University Resources Graduate School Handbook Academic Code CareerLAB Brown University Writing Center Sarah Doyle Center for Women and Gender Sheridan Center for Teaching & Learning Top Destinations Admission Inquiry Form Commencement Five-Year Ph.D. Support Open Graduate Education External Funding Application Process International Applicants