Skip to Content Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Indiana University Bloomington Indiana University Bloomington IU Bloomington Menu About History Rankings & Campus Statistics Mission & Strategic Planning Leadership & Administration Safety & Emergency Information Visit Campus Transportation & Parking A-Z List Jobs at IU How to Hire IU Students Admissions How to Apply Cost & Finances Visit IU & Bloomington Academics The Academic Experience Degrees & Majors Business Health & Wellness Science, Engineering & Technology Public Service Arts & Culture Schools Academic Opportunities Study Abroad Online Classes & Programs Schedule of Classes & Academic Calendar Academic Advising & Support Libraries Research Hoosier Life Traditions & Spirit Student Organizations Recreational Sports Athletics Health, Wellness & Safety Housing & Dining Visiting Bloomington Attractions & Things to Do Diversity on Campus Career Prep Find Your Passion Get Experience Develop Your Career Use Your Network Alumni & Giving News & Events Indiana University Bloomington Home About Admissions Academics Research Hoosier Life Career Prep Alumni & Giving News & Events Home Academics Degrees & Majors Science, Engineering & Technology Science, Engineering & Technology The future is at your fingertips At IU, you’ll find leading-edge degrees in discovery, one of the world’s best technology and information schools, and top-earning career paths. No matter your next step, a science, technology, engineering, or mathematics (STEM) degree from IU will get you where you want to go. Where can science, engineering, and tech take you? Explore how the brain works If you’re interested in brain science and its role in human behavior, explore our degree programs in psychology and neuroscience. Level up your computing game If you love math, science, and using computers to innovate or problem-solve technology of all sorts, check out our B.S. degree in computer science. See what’s inside If you want to understand how humans and other living things work, or have your sights set on medical school, check out our degrees in biology. Build robots If you want to use computing and artificial intelligence to solve complex problems, learn more about our degree in intelligent systems engineering. Find other programs in science, engineering, technology, and moreExplore all IU degrees Customize your course of study If you want to . . . Learn more about majors in Use robots to aid in medical procedures Health & wellness Become a medical illustrator or an animator Arts & culture Use data to improve our economy as a whole Business Predict models for environmental phenomena Public service Meet Jude When it comes to his studies in astrophysics, mathematics, and computer science, Jude’s goal is simple: use his passion for teaching others to build a better world. Visit campus with Jude—and learn about the cool stuff he’s been up to. Description of the video: [MUSIC: Soft, upbeat music plays throughout the video.] [VIDEO: Jude Gussman stands in front of Swain Hall.] Jude: Hey, yo! My name is Jude Gussman; I am a senior studying computer science, mathematics, and astronomy. I knew IU was the one when I began research in the astronomy department. It felt like a home away from home. [VIDEO: Jude stands in front of the Kirkwood Observatory.] Coolest things I've done at IU socially is help at Kirkwood Observatory's open house night, where the public can come and see different celestial objects. One of life's great delights is to show someone some beautiful object that they've never seen before in their life. One of the coolest things I’ve done academically is go to Tucson, Arizona, with my observational astronomy class to observe different galaxies with the 1.9 meter telescope. [VIDEO: Jude sits on a bench next to a statue of Herman B Wells, which is wearing a surgical mask and has a flower tucked behind its ear.] No matter what part of my academic journey I was on, I always got so much support from the faculty and staff. [VIDEO: Jude puts his arm around the statue.] Go IU! [VIDEO: Fade to black. IU trident appears.] [END OF TRANSCRIPT] IU advantage Experience—Internships with top tech and life sciences organizations including Eli Lilly and Company Career prep—95% of information technology–related bachelor’s degree grads in 2018–19 employed or entered graduate school Research—Opportunities to get published in the IU Journal of Undergraduate Research Resources—230+ labs in the natural sciences, cutting-edge makerspaces, forthcoming Luddy Center for Artificial Intelligence, and much more Let’s stay in touch Ready to become an IU insider? Complete this form to join our mailing list. First name * Last name * Email address * Year of high school graduation * Select a year20222023202420252026 Take your next step at Indiana University Visit campus virtually Learn how to apply The Academic Experience Degrees & Majors Business Health & Wellness Science, Engineering & Technology Public Service Arts & Culture Schools Academic Opportunities Study Abroad Online Classes & Programs Schedule of Classes & Academic Calendar Academic Advising & Support Libraries Indiana University Bloomington social media channels Twitter Facebook Instagram YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn Contact, Address and Additional Links Services Canvas One.IU AskIU Find Directory A-Z List Courses Campus Map Required Disclosures Library IU Bloomington Libraries IUCAT OneSearch@IU Resources Knowledge Base IT Services Faculty & Staff Resources Diversity Non-Discrimination Notice Protect IU Email About Email at IU Outlook Web Access INDIANA UNIVERSITY BLOOMINGTON 107 S. Indiana Avenue Bloomington, IN 47405-7000 Phone: 812-855-4848 Accessibility | Privacy Notice | Copyright © 2022 The Trustees of Indiana University