Skip to main content About us Contact us Who We Are Getting Help SHARPP Services Accessibility Survivor Support Group People Served LGBTQIAP+ Students Students of Color Male Students Student Veterans Students with Disabilities International Students Your Rights at SHARPP Survivors Speak Your Rights at UNH Safety Planning Chatting and Texting with SHARPP Campus Resources Off Campus Resources Helping a Friend Emergency Help FAQs SHARPP Events Awareness Campaigns Direct Action for Incarcerated Survivors Highlighted Cases October is... January is... April is... The Clothesline Project 1BlueString SHARPP Leaders Institute Volunteering Peer Advocates Community Educators Requesting a Program Incoming Students & Families Supporting Student Survivors Faculty & Staff Reporting Requirements Responding to Student Disclosures Services for Faculty & Staff Information On... Be an Active Bystander Consent Healthy Relationships Rape Culture Relationship Abuse Sexual Assault Sexual Harassment Stalking Street Harassment Studying Abroad Apply Contact Maps & Directions Storm myCourses Give A-Z Social UNH Search form SearchSearch Search CHAT WITH SHARPP DONATE HERE EXIT SITE QUICKLY Toggle navigation Toggle navigation Sexual Harassment & Rape Prevention Program (SHARPP) About us Contact us Who We Are Getting Help SHARPP Services Accessibility Survivor Support Group People Served LGBTQIAP+ Students Students of Color Male Students Student Veterans Students with Disabilities International Students Your Rights at SHARPP Survivors Speak Your Rights at UNH Safety Planning Chatting and Texting with SHARPP Campus Resources Off Campus Resources Helping a Friend Emergency Help FAQs SHARPP Events Awareness Campaigns Direct Action for Incarcerated Survivors Highlighted Cases October is... January is... April is... The Clothesline Project 1BlueString SHARPP Leaders Institute Volunteering Peer Advocates Community Educators Requesting a Program Incoming Students & Families Supporting Student Survivors Faculty & Staff Reporting Requirements Responding to Student Disclosures Services for Faculty & Staff Information On... Be an Active Bystander Consent Healthy Relationships Rape Culture Relationship Abuse Sexual Assault Sexual Harassment Stalking Street Harassment Studying Abroad Information On... Healthy Relationships Healthy Relationships Everyone deserves a healthy relationship. Whether your significant other/partnership is a friendship or an intimate relationship you deserve to feel respected, supported, encouraged, and free in your relationships. Violence in any relationship is never acceptable. What is a healthy relationship? Respect Partners in the relationship value each other’s opinions Disagreement is safely allowed and neither partner tries to control or change the other’s opinion Neither partner makes the other feel guilty or manipulates him/her when they are told “no” Partners accept responsibility for themselves, and mistakes are accepted and learned from Boundaries are established and respected. Support Partners support each other’s goals Successes are celebrated Failures are supported and partners assist and help each other during difficult times. Trust and honesty Both partners trust each other and trust is consistently worked on in the relationship Honesty is important and valued in the relationship Partners feel comfortable and safe with each other Partners are honest with themselves and each other Communication Communication is direct. Manipulation, intimidation, and fear are not used when partners communicate Listening is active. Active listening requires that each of you make sure that you really understand what the other person says. Decisions are negotiated and made together Feelings and needs are free to be expressed Conflict is welcomed and dealt with openly with both partners seeking a mutually acceptable outcome. Autonomy Each partner is an individual. Neither partner defines the other. Each partner is confident in her/his own worth There is room for positive growth. Growth is encouraged and supported by partners. Independence and alone time is accepted and respected. Having activities independent of each other are valued. Fairness and Equality Partners are accountable for their behaviors and do not blame each other for feelings or things that happen Forgiveness is essential and present There are no winners in conflicts. Compromise is equal and fair. Partners give and receive equally in the relationship. One partner’s needs and feelings are not catered to more than another’s. What is an unhealthy relationship? Healthy conflict and disagreements are normal in relationships as long as they can be resolved in a respectful manner. A relationship is unhealthy when it involves disrespectful, controlling and/or abusive behavior. If you experience a sudden change in your relationship or notice that a pattern of bad behaviors has developed over a period of time you may want to examine your relationship. If you are experiencing any of the behaviors listed below you may be in an unhealthy relationship and want to seek some support. We are here to help. Threats of physical violence towards you, themselves or pets Intimidating behaviors including excessive anger, throwing objects, destruction of property, hitting, kicking, punching or slapping Violation of personal space including violation of physical space (i.e. entering your room without permission, unwanted touching or sexual activity) or invasion of virtual spaces (i.e. checking emails, texts, and phone messages, etc.) Isolation from friends and family Suspicion of your actions, including accusations of cheating and being jealous or time spent with your friends Emotional abuse such as put-downs, name calling, guilt trips, humiliation, ignoring or the silent treatment Becomes verbally or physically abusive under the influence of alcohol and drugs? Stalking behaviors such as excessive contact via phone, email, text or unexpectedly showing up to ‘check-up.’ Uses threats or physical force to discourage you from leaving the relationship If you or a friend feel you may be in an unhealthy relationship, help is available. Contact us to speak with an advocate and learn how to get help. Information On... Be an Active Bystander Consent Healthy Relationships Rape Culture Relationship Abuse Sexual Assault Sexual Harassment Stalking Street Harassment Studying Abroad Get social with us! The University of New Hampshire • Sexual Harassment & Rape Prevention Program • Wolff House • 2 Pettee Brook Lane • Durham, NH 03824 24/7 Helpline | 603-862-7233 Text (Monday-Friday 9am-4pm) | 603-606-9393 Translate this site Copyright © 2022 • TTY Users: 7-1-1 or 800-735-2964 (Relay NH) USNH Privacy Policies • USNH Terms of Use • ADA Acknowledgement