Skip to main site navigation Skip to main content Open the search panel Open the main menu Search Go Close the search panel Information for… Incoming J.D. Current Students Faculty Staff Media Employers News Events Alumni Giving About Library Login Open the Search panel Admissions Admissions Why Columbia J.D. Admissions Graduate Admissions Academics Academics J.D. Program and Curriculum LL.M. Program and Curriculum Executive LL.M. Program and Curriculum J.S.D. Program and Curriculum Dual and Joint Degrees International Programs Public Interest and Public Service Experiential Learning Courses Registration Services Academic Calendar Executive Education Areas of Study Areas of Study Constitutional Law, Regulation, and Public Policy Corporate, Business, and Transactional Law Criminal Justice Data Analytics Environment and Energy Family, Gender, and Sexuality Intellectual Property and Technology International and Comparative Law Law of the Workplace Leadership Legal History Litigation and Dispute Resolution National Security and Privacy Social Justice and Human Rights Faculty & Scholarship Faculty & Scholarship Faculty Directory Research Centers and Programs Scholarship Archive Workshops, Lectures, and Colloquia Careers Careers Private Sector Careers Public Interest and Public Service Careers Academic Careers Judicial Clerkships Employment Statistics Employment Policies Community Life Community Life Visit Campus Dean’s Welcome Your Campus, Your City Student Life Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Strategic Initiatives Electronic Resource Use Policy Arthur W. Diamond Law Library Electronic Resource Use Policy By using the Law Library’s electronic resources, you are agreeing to comply with and be bound by its Electronic Resource Use Policy. The Law Library provides access to many electronic resources in its collections. Some of these resources are available on-site only; some are available remotely to the Law School community via proxy, VPN, or individual login; some are made available to the wider Columbia University community. Access to electronic resources through the Law Library is governed by the following: University, Law School, and Law Library policies Contractual license and terms of service agreements with publishers and vendors Copyright law The following actions constitute violations of appropriate use: Systematic or substantial downloading or printing of content. Please be aware that downloading an entire issue of a journal or an entire book is often viewed as systematic downloading. The use of spider or crawler programs to capture content is prohibited. Research often involves textual analysis of collections of materials; please consult with the Law Library about clearing such activities with database providers. Sharing content with unauthorized users. Sharing content or access to content outside the Columbia community may be seen as a violation. Altering content or creating derivative content. Use of content or access to content for commercial purposes. Any activity that may infringe or obfuscate the copyright notice or statement associated with the content. Violators may be contacted by a representative of the Columbia University Libraries, the director of the Law Library, the dean of students of the Law School, Law School Information Technology, or Columbia University Information Technology. Violators’ access to the resource in question or to all Law Library-provided licensed electronic resources may be terminated. Please be aware that, for some violations, the vendor or publisher of the resource may terminate access unilaterally and for all members of the university community until the Law Library responds to the complaint. If you believe you have a legitimate need to use a Law Library resource in a fashion that may constitute a violation, or you are not sure if your need would constitute a violation, please contact the Reference Librarian on duty for assistance. More information: Computing, Network, and Information Policies Law School IT Policies Copyright Advisory Services of Columbia University Admissions Why Columbia Visit 435 West 116th Street New York, NY 10027 212-854-2640 Contact Us Social Media (Administrative Title) Twitter LinkedIn Facebook Instagram Admissions Academics Areas of Study Faculty & Scholarship Careers Community Life Information for… Incoming J.D. Current Students Faculty Staff Media Employers Login News Events Alumni Giving About Library Consumer Information (ABA Required Disclosures) Donate © Copyright 2022 The Trustees of Columbia University in the City of New York.