Skip to main content Menu Discover Majors and Careers Admissions and Aid Campus Life Spirit and Traditions Athletics Raleigh, N.C. Apply Visit Give About NC State 101 Chancellor Rankings and Facts Think and Do Education Undergraduate Graduate Online Colleges and Departments Innovation Research Partnerships Centennial Campus Entrepreneurship Community Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Global Engagement Outreach and Extension Philanthropy and Giving Apply Visit Give Information For: Students Faculty and Staff Parents and Families Alumni NC State Resources Faculty and Staff NC State employees are skilled leaders who drive our top-tier university forward every day. Faculty and Staff News More Stories A School of Fishes At a research center in the port town of Morehead City, 18 veterinary medicine students get hands-on experience operating on fish. Twisted Soft Robots Navigate Mazes Without Human Or Computer Guidance The soft robots demonstrate a concept called "physical intelligence." Applications for Admission Soar as NC State Grows to Meet Workforce Needs Demand for an NC State degree is at an all-time high as the university prepares to welcome its largest and most diverse first-year class. The Bulletin Visit NC State’s faculty and staff news source for campus announcements, the latest university news and stories about how your fellow employees are making a difference. Read the latest key resources Faculty Central Search this collection of essential resources across campus that help faculty do their important work. Human Resources Find information about benefits, employee recognition, leave policies and anything else employees need to know. MyPack Portal Log in to access human resources information, financial systems like payroll and time tracking, the Travel Center and more. Office of Information Technology Learn about NC State’s computing, information and communication technology services. Office for Institutional Equity and Diversity Find resources to help build a more welcoming and inclusive community at NC State. Office of the Provost Find news and resources to support the faculty and programming that make our university a leader in higher education. Stronger as a Pack When you work at NC State, your work matters. Discover one of the nation’s top public research universities — and find out how you can contribute to our vital mission of teaching, research and outreach. #1 Employer in N.C. In 2022, Forbes named NC State among the top employers in the state. Find out why Nearly 10,000 Faculty and Staff Our strong workforce is just one of the notable things about us. View our facts and rankings 20 Interdisciplinary Faculty Clusters Our faculty work together across fields to solve real-world problems. Explore their work Join Our Faculty and Staff Pack Search job openings and apply about nc state NC State 101 Get to know one of the world’s leading public research universities. Strategic Plan Explore the university’s new strategic plan, Wolfpack 2030: Powering the Extraordinary. Our Brand NC State’s Think and Do brand infuses everything we do. Learn more about it. Home Raleigh, NC 27695 919.515.2011 Campus Map Academic Calendar Accessibility Apply Contact Copyright COVID-19 Updates Directory Emergency Information Free Speech Jobs Libraries MyPack Portal Policies Privacy Statement Resources Strategic Plan Connect With Us Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Instagram YouTube © 2022 NC State University. All rights reserved.