Skip to main content Skip to main content Prospective Students Current Students Alumni More Faculty/Staff News Media Parents Skip to main content Apply Apply Give Give Follow Us Follow Us Twitter Follow Us Facebook Follow Us Instagram Follow Us LinkedIn Follow Us YouTube Follow Us Social Stream Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. Navigate Search Skip to main content Home About Campus Ministries Center for Faith and Learning Programs Religious Holidays ☰ Student Affairs Chaplain and Religious Life Campus Ministries The Office of the Chaplain and Religious Life oversees multiple campus ministries whereby students are strengthened spiritually and intellectually in their chosen faith tradition. A large number of our campus community participates in these dynamic religious communities. The following ministries represent five different faiths on campus: Christian, Hindu, Jewish, Muslim, and Sikh. If you do not see a group that reflects your religious identity or tradition, please contact our office and we will help you form one! Antioch College Ministry at SMU Antioch College Ministry at SMU (ACM@SMU) is part of a worldwide movement of around 70 church plants. The Antioch movement started in 1986. Churches in the Antioch movement focus on planting churches that plant churches around the world to see the purposes of God fulfilled on the earth. Meeting Times Sundays at 9:15am & 11:00am (Church) Tuesdays at 8:30pm Locations Church - Antioch Community Church Life group - Hughes-Trigg Student Center Contact Noah Thacher (College Ministry Staff) noah.thacher@antiochdallas.org Rachel Thacher (College Ministry Staff) rachel.thacher@antiochdallas.org On the web: www.antiochcollegeministry.org Instagram: @Antiochcollegeministry Welcome Video Bhakti Yoga Club Are you looking for a deeper understanding of the purpose of human life? Do you want to know and practice a lifestyle that is in harmony with your eternal nature? If yes, come to one of the programs of the Bhakti Yoga Club. Our purpose is to encourage the student community to appreciate, understand and apply spiritual knowledge as given in the ancient scriptures such as Vedas and Bhagavad Gita with focus on loving devotional service to the Absolute Truth (Bhakti Yoga). Devotional service includes chanting and singing of the Holy names of the Absolute Truth and leading a life in harmony with the goal of human life. We welcome students from all religious and spiritual backgrounds. Contact smu.byc@gmail.com Facebook: SMU Bhakti Yoga Club Welcome Video Catholic Campus Ministries at SMU SMU Catholic Campus Ministry strives to help students, faculty, and staff to know, love, and serve the Lord in their lives, as well as to develop a better understanding of the Catholic faith and its applications to the joys and challenges of college life. Mass Times Sunday 9AM, 5PM, and 8PM | Perkins Chapel MWF 12:10 PM and TTh 5:10 PM | Catholic Center Sacrement of Reconciliation and Adoration Sacrament of Reconciliation is available 30 minutes before each Daily Mass time or by appointment. Monday - Friday | 9AM-10AM Monday - Thursday | 8PM-9PM* Catholic Center Hours The Catholic Center is located on the corner of Airline and University (3057 University Blvd, Dallas, TX 75205) and is available to all students as a space for community, prayer, study and more! The Catholic Center is open Monday - Thursday 9AM-10PM and Friday 9AM-5PM. Private prayer in the chapel is available Monday - Wednesday until 8:45PM. Contacts Fr. Wade Bass, Chaplain and Director, wbass@smu.edu Christina Bax Roncal, Associate Director, cbax@smu.edu Daniel Porting, Campus Minister, dporting@smu.edu Olivia Arratia, Director of Communications, catholiccommunications@smu.edu For any questions, please call the Catholic Center at 214-987-0044 or email one of the campus ministers listed above. On the web: www.smucatholic.org Facebook: SMU Catholic Instagram: @smucatholic Welcome Video Chi Alpha International Student Ministry Chi Alpha International Student Ministry welcomes you to be a part of our community! We hope that we can be your home away from home. Chi Alpha is a Christian fellowship that strives to love and serve our international students through weekly Dinner & Discussion groups, Bible studies, cultural experiences, trips, retreats, and friendships. Though we are a Christian fellowship, we welcome everyone from all religious backgrounds and beliefs to be part of our community. Contact Mandy and Shomik Pathak, International Student Ministry Directors mandypathak@gmail.com We're looking forward to meeting you and we hope that with us you will find your home away from home! On the web: www.smuxainternationals.com Christian Students Christian Students at SMU are a group of seeking Christians who welcome all fellow believers to worship the Lord and study His word on campus. Using study Bibles we meet in a group setting and read the Word together. We are also free to set appointments to meet one on one to pray, study or read the Bible. Please contact us at christianstudents@smu.edu Facebook: Christian Students Cru Cru is a community of students and staff who are seeking to love God and others at SMU. We are a campus ministry of Cru (formerly known as Campus Crusade for Christ International), an interdenominational (existing within and across denominations, but not directly associated with any) Christian (we believe that Jesus is the Christ and we follow Him) ministry (working with, and as members of, local churches, but not ourself a church). We are trying to follow Jesus Christ as our Lord and Savior, and we don't even come close to perfect. But we know that Jesus Christ is our only hope, that we desperately need others to help us grow, and that we have been given a true purpose in this life. No matter where you are in this process, if you ever think about or desire any of these things: hope, change, purpose, truth; please join us as we pursue them as well. Contact Dawn Wright dawn.wright@uscm.org On the web: smucru.org Facebook: www.facebook.com/smucru Welcome Video Faculty Commons In 1981, a faculty and alumni effort was organized to support and advance the Christian perspective within the SMU academic community. Faculty Commons, as the faculty ministry of Cru at SMU, is an organization which has a witness for Christ and provides fellowship for SMU faculty, administrators, staff, alumni and friends and strives to help foster a spiritual dimension to education at SMU. Contact Stephen F. Sternberg, Director 214-232-7248 steve.sternberg@facultycommons.org On the web: www.facultycommons.org Fellowship of Christian Athletes Fellowship of Christian Athletes exists to introduce to coaches and athletes and those whom they influence the challenge and adventure of receiving Jesus Christ as Savior and Lord, serving Him in their relationships and in the fellowship of the church. Location 3rd floor of the Hall of Champions-of the Loyd All-Sports Building. Come and enjoy games, music, snacks and the Word! Contact Campus FCA Area Director: Ben Pollard bpollard@fca.org Campus Sponsor Steve Stigall stigall@smu.edu 214-927-7551 On the web: www.fcadallas.org Facebook: FCA Welcome Video Fellowship of Christian University Students - FOCUS Who We Are FOCUS (Fellowship of Christian University Students) is a community of students who love God and love one another. Our Community We are a community that values equipping students to be missionaries to their campus. We are committed to the Bible as God’s Word, and our members from many Christian traditions unite around the ancient Christian creeds and the confession that “Jesus is Lord.” Our Mission To make and mature disciples to the Glory of God. (Matt 28:18-20) We are committed to calling people to give their lives, their devotion, and their allegiance to Jesus Christ. Our heart is to be a community of disciples who make disciples. Get Connected We meet weekly on Thursday Nights at 7pm for worship, fellowship, and teaching. We meet at Canterbury House (3308 Daniele Ave) behind Dallas Hall Lawn. Our community also meets weekly in small groups called cores. Women's Cores - Tuesdays at 4:30pm, Wednesdays at 4pm & 6:30pm Men's Cores - Wednesdays at 4pm & 6pm, Fridays at 4pm Check out our website for more details! smufocus.org Graduate Christian Fellowship The Christian Grads Fellowship is a network of Christian graduate community groups. We assemble on university campuses to support one another and impact the academy as thoughtful and informed followers of Christ. We have weekly meetings where we study the Bible together, share prayer requests and hear from Christian faculty members about what it means to be a Christian in academia. Contact info@christiangrads.org The Hill - Baptist Student Ministry The Hill is in partnership with the College Ministry of Park Cities Baptist Church. The Hill exists to disciple college students to follow Jesus every day, fellowship with the church, and care for the world. We do this by Belonging in community, Becoming what God desires for us, and Being Sent into the world to live as Gospel bearers. Meeting Times Various Bible studies throughout the week. Click here if you’re interested in joining one: https://forms.gle/gNAXc2TrA8xi37h88. Location Park Cities Baptist Church will resume in-person worship gatherings on September 27th at 9am and 11am. Come join us then! Contact Info Grant Glover gglover@pcbc.org 214-801-4745 On the web: www.thehillsmu.com Facebook: thehillsmu Welcome Video Hillel at SMU Hillel at SMU is your Jewish home away from home, serving as the center of Jewish life on campus for approximately 350 Jewish students. By hosting a wide variety of Jewish social, cultural, educational, Shabbat and holiday programs, we bring together Mustangs for friendship, meaning and fun. We are a warm, and inclusive group so join us and attend programs as often as you are able. Please email Heidi (hcoretz@smu.edu) to set up a time that she can buy you a beverage and treat, and get to know you. She is glad to answer any questions you have about Hillel and how to get involved. Contacts Rabbi Heidi Coretz, Director hcoretz@smu.edu 214-280-9005 Co-Presidents Lior Kremer - lkremer@smu.edu Eliana Abraham - emabraham@smu.edu Welcome Video International Student Fellowship International Student Fellowship is a ministry of International Students, Inc. on the SMU campus. We welcome you! ISF is a non-denominational Christian organization committed to serve international students predominantly and regardless of their religious background or beliefs. ISF provides various services for international students including airport pick up, information about the community, contact with Americans, assistance with specific needs, and campus meetings to learn together and to enjoy each other’s companionship and views. Meeting Times and Locations We meet in Hughes-Trigg and in students' apartments and community volunteers' homes on a schedule determined at the beginning of each semester. Contact Judy Becker 214-683-3903 jabecker@smu.edu China Outreach Ministries extends God’s love and truth to visiting students and scholars at North American universities. Campus staff and volunteers build relationships through hospitality, practical service, and friendship, leading many to become followers of Christ. I would love to know you in person and share the faith with you! Contact JoJo Qiao 227-255-2836 InterVarsity Christian Fellowship The oldest campus ministry in the USA, InterVarsity Christian Fellowship is an inter-denominational, student-led, Christian movement that serves both undergraduate and graduate students at SMU. For undergrads, InterVarsity is a multi-ethnic community of students following Jesus to every part of campus and with every part of our lives. We do this through small group Bible studies, prayer gatherings, campus outreach and fellowship. Every three years, we host Urbana, the world's largest student missions conference, in St. Louis. Contact Catherine Winniford InterVarsity Christian Fellowship - Undergraduate Chapter catherine.cunningham@intervarsity.org On the web: www.intervarsity.org Facebook:InterVarsity at SMU Instagram: InterVarsity at SMU Welcome Video Latter-Day Saints Student Association The Latter-day Saint Student Association (LDSSA) is affiliated with The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints for the purpose to help SMU students obtain a balanced secular and spiritual educational experience. We invite all students who are interested in learning more to attend with us by becoming an influence for good by participating in activities and service on campus and in the community. LDSSA promotes traditional moral values while supporting students to achieve academically and spiritually. Meeting Times Small group: Wednesdays, 1 pm - 2:15 pm Church: Dallas YSA 2nd Ward: Sundays Sacrament Meeting at 11:30 am Sunday School at 12:40 pm Location Small group: Dallas Hall, Room 138 Church: 1800 Bennett Ave Dallas, TX 75206-7513 Contact David Sheets dtsheets@smu.edu Josh Hayes, Instructor (702) 375 – 9686 HayesJJ@ldschurch.org On the web: www.lds.org Muslim Student Association Purpose The SMU Muslim Student Association stands to unite and serve the needs of the SMU Muslim community while creating a safe space for our members to grow, both spiritually and socially. Our goals are to inspire and spiritually uplift the Muslims on our campus and serve as a source of information about Islam for the entire SMU community. The Muslim Student Association holds regular Friday prayers on campus, as well as numerous other Religious and Social events throughout the year! Weekly Meetings Fridays at 3pm in Hughes-Trigg Student Center, 2nd floor Friday Prayers Fridays at 2:15pm Hughes-Trigg Student Center, 2nd floor Contact Instagram: www.instagram.com/smumsa Facebook: www.facebook.com/SMUMuslim Email: smumsa21@gmail.com Welcome Video Mustangs For Christ - Church of Christ Mustangs for Christ is the college ministry of the Preston Road Church of Christ and we believe that the most important questions we’ll ever answer are the questions of who God is and what does He require of us. Join us as we look at these and how they relate to dating, friends, family, success, forgiveness, death and many more of life’s most important topics. Meeting Times Sunday mornings At 10:45am Location Preston Road Church Located one mile west of campus At the corner of Preston and University You’ll find stimulating preaching, thought-provoking classes, authentic worship and a friendly congregation where intergenerational friendships are the norm and families that line up to “adopt” college students abound. Contact Jim Barnett, Director214-768-4368 jim@prestonroad.org On the web: www.prestonroad.org Welcome Video Northway Christian - Disciples of Christ The path to spiritual growth – whether it takes us on our own version of the Road to Emmaus, or to Damascus, or another journey of our choosing – requires that we confront our fears, our prejudices and, quite simply, our ignorance. We don’t know what we don’t know. But at Northway Christian Church, our members don’t travel the path of spiritual growth alone. At Northway, we’re disciples – Disciples of Christ and disciples of one another. It’s who we are. It’s the way we are made. Meeting Times Sundays at 8:30AM (Traditional) 10:50am (Blended) Location 7202 W. Northwest Hwy. Dallas, Texas 75225 Contact Rev. Cheryl Scramuzza 214-361-6641 cheryl.scramuzza@northwaychristian.org On the web: www.northwaychristian.org Northway Church To glorify God by making disciples of Jesus Christ. Contact Faith Lawrence flawrence@smu.edu On the web: https://northwaychurch.com/ Orthodox Christian Fellowship OCF or Orthodox Christian Fellowship is an organization open to all college students by which they can come together for fellowship, prayer, and service. It is a way to rest your brain from your schoolwork so that you can give your soul some nourishment. Because college is such a big challenge, OCF offers a solid group of brothers and sisters in Christ who can stand by you during hard times and offer you family comfort when you are far from home. "And they devoted themselves to the apostles' teaching and fellowship, to the breaking of bread and the prayers." (Acts 2:42). OCF offers a base that you can always touch back on so you don't stray too far from the "needful things" in life. We know that God is light, and in Him there is no darkness. Therefore, "If we walk in the light, as He is in the light, we have fellowship with one another, and the blood of Jesus his Son cleanses us from all sin." (1 John 1:7). Location Holy Trinity Greek Orthodox Church 13555 Hillcrest Rd. Dallas, Texas 75240 Contact John Lucas jlucas@smu.edu On the web: www.holytrinity.info Reformed University Fellowship - RUF & RUF-International Park Cities Presbyterian Church www.pcpc.org RUF (Reformed University Fellowship) exists to prepare students for life through reaching them for Christ and equipping them to serve in Christ's Church. RUF and RUFI are an interdenominational (all students welcome) campus ministry of the Presbyterian Church in America. Meeting Times Tuesday nights At 8:00 pm Location The Varsity, 1st floor Hughes-Trigg We offer small group Bible study opportunities, a mission trip, as well as fall, spring and summer conferences and social events throughout the year. Contacts James Madden, RUF Campus Director james.madden@ruf.org Fee Kennedy, RUFI Campus Director fee.kennedy@ruf.org Heidi Hill, Campus Staff for RUF International heidi.hill@ruf.org // 615.310.2951 On the web: www.rufsmu.com ruf.org/smuint Instagram: @rufinternational_smu Welcome Video RUF Welcome Video RUF-I Shoreline City Shoreline City is an energetic church on mission to see it on Earth as it is in Heaven - in every sphere of life. Our desire is that individuals would encounter the God that loves them, values them and has a plan and purpose for their life. Our college community at SMU is centered around being planted in the local church, staying connected and serving the community. Meeting Times and Location We gather weekly in connect groups on campus and on Sunday mornings at Shoreline (10715 Garland Road). Contact Daniel Poku pokud@smu.edu Sigma Phi Lambda Christian Sorority - Phi Lamb Sigma Phi Lambda is a sorority that seeks to glorify God by providing a source of fellowship for Christian college women who sincerely seek to know His person, His will, and His ways. We are a non-denominational organization of sisters where fellowship with our most high God is fostered by growth in unity with one another. Through weekly meetings that include worship, encouragement, fellowship, and accountability, Phi Lamb provides an alternative to pan-hellenic sororities. Founding Scripture "May the God who gives endurance and encouragement give you a spirit of unity among yourselves as you follow Christ Jesus so that with one heart and one mouth you may glorify the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ." Romans 15:5-6 Activities and Events Weekly chapter, prayer groups, prayer nights, "Fellowsheep" events, community service events, chapter retreat, World Vision philanthropy, and other sisterhood activities. Contact smuphilamb14@gmail.com Facebook: philambSMU Welcome Video Sikh Student Association Sikh Student Association (SSA) exists to provide a forum for SMU students to learn about Sikhism, its history, beliefs, and culture. This task will be done by building working relationships with other organizations and performing community service. SSA will also act on developing an understanding throughout campus about the Sikh religion through educational, social, religious, and intercultural programs. SMU SSA is devoted to bringing understanding of the meaning of Sikhism among all denominations regardless of race, gender, or creed. Weekly Meetings Thursdays at 6:30 pm Activities and Events Sikh Turban Day, Community Service Day, and other social and cultural programs For more information about Sikhism please check out the following links: http://www.sikhcoalition.org/SikhismGlance.asp http://www.sikhcoalition.org/Sikhism2.asp Contact ssa.smu@gmail.com Student Mobilization Student Mobilization is an interdenominational Christian organization that helps college students take "next steps" in the process of growing spiritually and as leaders. We desire to be a resource for students to help them know Jesus Christ, grow in their faith and impact the lives of others. Meeting Times Mondays at 9:30pm Activities and Events We also seek to provide Stumo small group studies, periodic community builders, service opportunities and social gatherings. Contact Dallas@stumo.org On the web: www.stumodallas.com Facebook: Stumo Dallas Welcome Video UKirk SMU We are a worshiping community that looks for the sacred in the ordinary. We seek to follow God by wrestling with holy scripture, gathering weekly around the table for communion, and striving to embody Jesus’s unconditional love in the world. We are a place where you are invited to come as you are. Bring your doubts and questions, your fears and past experiences, your dreams and wanderings. Bring your whole self. We are an open and affirming community that celebrates and embraces you for who God created you to be. All of who you are is welcome here. We are a place of nourishment, care, and support. College is hard – this is a community where you can rest, eat (vegetarian and gluten-free options are always available!), de-stress, and connect in meaningful ways with people who care. We are a place where all belong. Our name, UKirk, means "University Church" -- "kirk" is an old Scots-English word for church. We're associated with a network of campus ministries in the Presbyterian Church (USA), but we're not just for Presbyterians! Meeting Times Thursday evenings Check our Instagram for more details! Location The Great Hall in the Elizabeth Prothro Building in the Perkins School of Theology Contact Rev. Jessie Light-Wells, Campus Minister jlightwells@smu.edu; ukirksmu@gmail.com On the web: ukirksmu.org Welcome Video Watermark College Ministry The Watermark College Ministry seeks to be a church-based, college ministry that students on every campus in DFW cannot wait to invite their friends to come and see. Every week, SMU students gather both on SMU's campus and Watermark's Dallas Campus to worship God, study His word and deepen their friendships with one another. Meeting Times Tuesdays at 7pm – The Porch Thursdays at 9pm – The Nine We also host small groups that meet on SMU's campus as well as regular social activities. Location 7540 Lyndon B Johnson Fwy, Dallas, TX 75251 Contact Abigail Newton anewton@watermark.org Instagram Wesley House Wesley House is the college ministry of Highland Park United Methodist Church and is for all 18 to 22-year-olds looking for a place to connect and grow with others in their same stage of life. We want to help you navigate life and faith through Bible studies, small groups, worship, and missions, connecting you to the larger body of HPUMC. We have what you are looking for. Welcome home. Meeting Times Tuesdays-The Table-This is our worship and teaching time. It will be accessible online. Sundays- Worship with HPUMC. Find times and info at www.hpumc.org. Starting Now-A six week small group for First Year Students to wrestle with faith and navigating college life. United Groups-3-5 person accountability groups led by upperclassmen. Men's and Women's Bible Study-Join these groups for deeper conversations around faith. Host Family - If you are already thinking about feeling homesick or you just want some support while you are in college, you should sign up for a Host Family. Location HPUMC is located on the southwest corner of SMU campus at Hillcrest and Mockingbird (3300 Mockingbird Ln.) and the Wesley House is on the north side of campus on Daniel (3220 Daniel Ave.). If you have any questions about Wesley House or HPUMC or if there is any way we can be a resource to you don't hesitate to contact us. Contacts Isaiah Terry Director of Wesley House Email: terryi@hpumc.org Cell: 940-447-1646 Haley Sloan Pastor to College Students at Wesley House Email: sloanh@hpumc.org Cell: 417-291-1694 On the web: www.hpumc.org/college Facebook: WesleyHouseDallas Instagram: @thewesleyhouse Welcome Video Young Life Did you love Young Life high school? Or maybe you've never heard of Young Life? Either way, if you're looking for a great place to have fun, share life with amazing people and grow closer to God, SMU Young Life could be the place for you. You can get involved with Young Life on whatever level you choose. Join the fun at large group events, go deeper with a small group or train to become a Young Life leader and work with middle school or high school kids here in Dallas - which could be one of the most significant things you do while in college. You can also go to work week at Crooked Creek Ranch or serve on summer staff at a Young Life camp. No matter where you are in your faith journey or what you think about Jesus, Young Life is a place where we hope you'll feel welcome. Contact Dan Pitts College Coordinator- SMU Highland Park Young Life danpitts.yl@gmail.com (623) 313-3671 Twitter | Instagram | Facebook | www.northcentraltexas.younglife.org Welcome Video If you would like more information about which faith traditions the above groups belong to, please see below. Christian Faith Tradition Baptist The Hill Catholic Catholic Campus Ministry at SMU Church of Christ Mustangs for Christ Disciples of Christ Northway Christian Episcopal Fellowship of Christian University Students (FOCUS) Faculty Faculty Commons International Student Ministries Chi Alpha International Student Ministry International Student Fellowship Reformed University Fellowship International (RUFI) Latter-Day Saints Latter-Day Saints Student Association Methodist Wesley House Non-Denominational Antioch College Ministry at SMU Christian Students Cru Fellowship of Christian Athletes (FCA) InterVarsity Christian Fellowship Northway Church Shoreline City Sigma Phi Lambda Sorority (Phi Lamb) Student Mobilization Watermark College Ministry Young Life Orthodox Orthodox Christian Fellowship Presbyterian Reformed University Fellowship Ukirk SMU Jewish Tradition Hillel at SMU Hindu Tradition Bhakti Yoga Club Islamic Tradition Muslim Student Association Sikh Tradition Sikh Student Association For more information on how to become a campus minister or on how to create a new religious life student group, please click on one of the links below! Campus Ministry Council Religious Life Student Orgs Campus Ministry Council Membership Apply Visit School Cox School of Business Dedman College of Humanities and Sciences Dedman School of Law Lyle School of Engineering Meadows School of the Arts Moody School of Graduate and Advanced Studies Perkins School of Theology Simmons School of Education and Human Development Explore SMU Magazine Academic Calendar Events Calendar Guildhall Continuing and Professional Education Athletics Employment at SMU Campus Reporting a Bias Incident Report Sexual Misconduct Emergency Preparedness Student Life George W. Bush Presidential Center SMU Libraries Meadows Museum Tate Lecture Series Contact Us Maps and Directions Legal Disclosures © Southern Methodist University, PO Box 750100, Dallas, TX 75275 twitter facebook instagram linkedin youtube share