COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW Details: Spanish, Master's Master'sSpanish All Programs Fairmount College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Modern and Classical Languages and Literatures The Master of Arts (MA) in Spanish from Wichita State combines advanced studies in literature, cultural studies, linguistics and translation. Students in this program enjoy access to study-abroad opportunities and graduate teaching assistantships. Learn how Spanish is the right fit for you. Request Info Start Your Application Applied learning at Wichita State At Wichita State, applied learning is everything. In fact, every degree we offer has a guaranteed applied learning or research experience built right into it equipping you with the relevant skills and experience to make you workforce ready before graduation. Learn about our innovative approach Admission to the program Admission to the Master of Arts program requires a 3.00 GPA in Spanish. Non-native speakers must have completed 24 credit hours of undergraduate Spanish beyond the basic language courses. Eight of these 24 credit hours should be at the junior-senior level (WSU classes 300 and above). Native speakers must have completed 12 credit hours of Spanish at the junior-senior level or demonstrate equivalent background knowledge. Students with background in other fields (non-Spanish majors) should demonstrate knowledge of the language and of a set of basic analytical tools within the humanities. Admission requirements Inside the Program Assistantships: Students pursuing a master's in Spanish could get the chance to practice as translators During their time at Wichita State University, Karelyn Feliz, Jenny Masias, and Kaitlin Patterson—now a doctoral student, a college instructor, and a middle school teacher, respectively—were among the students chosen for a Graduate Teaching Assistantship position in the Spanish Language Program. WSU's Spanish program is designed to make students more marketable, and can create opportunities to hone their interpretation and translation skills or teach at a higher level. Curriculum The MA degree in Spanish requires the completion of 32 credit hours beyond the bachelor’s degree, including at least two seminars with research papers. All candidates must pass a written comprehensive examination based on two reading lists—Latin American literature and peninsular (Spain) literature—and on a third area of examination of the student’s choosing. After these three exams are approved, the student has to pass the oral exam before being granted the degree. View the curriculum Careers The MA in Spanish opens doors to careers at home and abroad. The degree is suitable for graduates with interests in many professional areas, including: teaching at the community college or K-12 levels; translating and interpreting; careers in diplomacy, foreign service, social work, counseling, journalism, publishing, international business; or pursuing a Ph.D. for a career in teaching and research at the university level. Our more recent graduates have found positions in such professional areas by graduation or even before completing the program. Learn more about careers in this field 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©