Skip to main content Skip to main content SMU Home Giving Giving Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. Simmons About Dean's Message Programs, Degrees, and Certifications Faculty and Staff Directory Simmons Governance Simmons School History Executive Board Simmons Luminary Award XPRIZE Honor Code Simmons Resources Travel-Study Programs Simmons Lecture Series AERA 2022 Graduation Ceremony May 2022 Paving the Way to Inclusion Conference Simmons Graduate Council Faculty and Administrative Position Openings Simmons Blogs and Social Media Hub Annette Caldwell Simmons Hall Harold Clark Simmons Hall Photo Tour Contact Us Academic Departments & Areas of Study Applied Physiology & Wellness B.S. | Applied Physiology & Sport Mgmt. Undergraduate Specializations Applied Physiology and Health Management Sport Management Sport Performance Leadership M.S. | Health Promotion Management M.S. | Sport Management Non-Degree | Wellness Dispute Resolution & Counseling M.S. | Counseling Specialties Clinical Mental Health Marriage, Couple and Family School Counseling M.A. | Dispute Resolution Non-Degree | Dispute Resolution Specialties Executive Coaching Education Policy & Leadership M.Ed. | PK-12 School Leadership M.Ed. | Higher Education Ed.D. | PK-12 School Leadership Ed.D. | Higher Education Graduate Liberal Studies MLS | Science, Arts, & Humanities DLS | Science, Arts, & Humanities Non-Degree | Science, Arts, & Humanities Ph.D. in Education Teaching & Learning B.S. | M.Ed | MBE | Ph.D. Graduate Specializations Bilingual Special Ed ESL Gifted Literacy Math STEM Urban Education Research Research A comprehensive list of Simmons research projects Faculty Research Publications & Presentations Recent research publications and presentations Center on Research & Evaluation (CORE) Offers comprehensive program evaluation services, largely in the non-profit sector, and performs education research Research in Mathematics Education Conducts research in mathematics education and disseminates findings Integrative Physiology Laboratory Investigates autonomic function and thermoregulation in healthy and clinical populations Locomotor Performance Laboratory Studies terrestrial locomotion and the relationship of muscle function to metabolic energy expenditure and performance Center for VR Learning Innovation Investigates the use of virtual, augmented and mixed reality for education and human development Youth Sports Impact Partnership SMU and the Children’s Health Andrews Institute have launched a collaboration dedicated to improving the health, activity levels, and well-being of kids. Research Resources for Simmons Faculty and Staff Technology and Education Cluster Our Faculty Community Engagement Advanced Placement Summer Institute Summer Institute for AP and Pre-AP Teachers The Budd Center Partners with community agencies to offer educational opportunities for disadvantaged children Center for Family Counseling Counseling services in Plano for individuals and families College Access Programs Programs and workshops that help students advance academically Institute for Leadership Impact Leaders in education, health and social enterprise enhance skills to lead organizations and solve real-world problems Project Connect A repository of ideas, activities and videos for educators interested in improving instruction for English Language Learners West Dallas STEM-Focused School Preparing students for the next generation of STEM jobs Alumni Search Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. Navigate Search Skip to main content Simmons About Simmons About Simmons Graduation Ceremony May 2022 Simmons COVID-19 Information Fall 2021 Important Student Information Dean's Message Faculty and Staff Directory Academic Integrity and Code of Conduct History: from 1920 Executive Board Simmons News Catalogs Giving Academic Services Simmons Strategic Plan Simmons Resources Travel-Study Programs Simmons Lecture Series AERA 2022 Simmons Luminary Award Paving the Way to Inclusion Simmons Graduate Council Faculty and Administrative Openings Simmons Governance Simmons Newsletters Simmons Blogs and Social Media XPRIZE Alumni Contact Us Academics Academics Applied Physiology and Sports Management Dispute Resolution Counseling Education Policy and Leadership Graduate Liberal Studies Ph.D. Teacher Education Programs & Degrees Fall 2021 Graduate Student Orientation Our Faculty Our Faculty Faculty Research Publications & Presentations Research Research Research Projects Archive 2020-21: Research Snapshot Research Resources Virtual Reality Surgery Simulator (VRSS) Integrative Physiology Laboratory CORE Locomotor Performance Laboratory Research in Mathematics Education Center for VR Learning Innovation Youth Sports Impact Partnership Faculty Research Publications and Presentations Dallas Noyce: A Community-Focused Mathematics Teacher Pipeline Technology and Education Cluster Community Engagement Community Engagement Advanced Placement Summer Institute College Access Programs The Budd Center: Involving Communities in Education Institute for Leadership Impact Center for Family Counseling Project Connect West Dallas STEM-Focused School Alumni ☰ Simmons Academic Governance About Simmons Simmons About Simmons Simmons Governance Standing Committees 2021-22 Research Council Charge: Promotes the development of high-quality research efforts and raises and addresses issues related to research and grant opportunities within Simmons. The council shall facilitate collaboration within and across departments, colleges, and schools in order to promote on-gong and new research initiatives and shall find ways to promote research events and grant opportunities for junior faculty. Other responsibilities may include matters related to: IRB requirements, Principal Investigator challenges, interdisciplinary opportunities, and investment of resources to further the academic and research enterprise. Members: Anthony Petrosino – Chair, Office of the Dean, Teaching & Learning Jill Allor – Teaching & Learning Eric Bing – Global Health Kathryn Canterbury – Office of the Dean Greta Davis – Dispute Resolution & Counseling Leanne Ketterlin Geller – Research in Mathematics Education (RME) Aki Kamata – Education Policy & Leadership Amy Rouse – Teaching & Learning Peter Weyand – Applied Physiology & Wellness Appointment: With the exception of the graduate student representative, who shall serve a one-year term, terms are set at 2 or 3 years to provide overlap from year to year. Meeting Dates: Monthly, every last Wednesday of the month Academic Affairs Council (AAC) Charge: Review curriculum, new program proposals, and academic policies and procedures in order to ensure their consistency with SMU's strategic academic priorities and supports the development and implementation of high–quality online and hybrid programming in Simmons by maintaining an infrastructure for instructional design, structured course–module development, quality review standards and processes, institutional compliance and innovative excellence. The AAC reports to the Dean and merged with the Technology Advisory Council to streamline the work of both governing bodies, which ensures faculty governance of program and course approval. Technical Requirements for Simmons Hybrid/Digital Courses Members: Tim Jaccobe – Associate Dean, Chair, Office of the Dean Sarah Brown – Applied Physiology & Sports Management Diane Baty Gifford – Teaching & Learning John Potter – Lifelong Learning Edita Ruzgyte – Counseling Milan Sevak – Education Policy & Leadership Candace Walkington – Teaching & Learning Appointment: Meeting Dates: Once a month, starting in September and ending in June Faculty Research Publications and Presentations: For the most current Academic Affairs Digest, click here. Ph.D. Committee Charge: Reviews annual student recruitment, admission, funding issues, curriculum, faculty instructional assignments, student advisement, and Ph.D. program policies. Members: Anthony Petrosino – Co-Chair, Office of the Dean, Teaching & Learning Aki Kamata – Simmons Ph.D. Committee, Education Policy & Leadership Stephanie Al Otabia – Teaching & Learning Scott Davis – Applied Physiology & Wellness Leanne Ketterlin Geller – Education Policy & Leadership Alex Pavlakis – Education Policy & Leadership Meredith Richards – Education Policy & Leadership Quentin Sedlacek – Teaching & Learning Candace Walkington – Teaching & Learning Jeanna Wieselmann – Teaching & Learning Peter Weyand – Applied Physiology & Wellness Appointment: Unspecified term of service Meeting Dates: Monthly - every third Friday of the month Communications/Public Relations Charge: Promotes Simmons program and department activities and news and prioritizes what the School promotes through SMU and external channels. Members: Yolette Garcia – Chair, Office of the Dean Peter Carton – Applied Physiology & Wellness Nancy George – Development & External Affairs Becky Hood – Office of the Dean Cindy Mazariegos – College Access Kate Montgomery – Graduate Liberal Studies Regina Nippert – The Budd Center Abby Opersteny – Education Policy & Leadership Brandy Schumann – Dispute Resolution & Counseling Samia Siddiqui –Teaching & Learning Greg Weatherford – Office of the Dean Annie Wright – Center on Research & Evaluation (CORE) Appointment: Department or program chairs, terms of service are one year Meeting Dates: Once a month Educator Preparation Program Directors and Certification Charge: Responsible for understanding of TEA rules and regulations. Discusses and resolves compliance issues, and implements policy and practice that is consistent across programs. Members: Tim Jacobbe –Associate Dean for Academic Affairs, Office of the Dean Mario De La Garza – Dispute Resolution & Counseling, Counselor Class Milan Sevak – Education Policy & Leadership, Principal Class Roxanne Burleson – Education Policy & Leadership, Superintendent Class Amy Richardson – Teaching & Learning, Teacher Class Texas Educator Certifications: For information on Texas Educator Certifications from the Texas Education Agency, click here. Complaints Against Educator Preparation Programs: For information about filing a complaint against Educator Preparation Programs with the Texas Education Agency, click here. Educator Preparation Programs Available in the Simmons School: These programs prepare students to meet the requirements for certification by the Texas Education Agency. Bilingual Education Supplemental ESL Supplemental Master of Education with Certification Preparation (Teacher) Post Baccalaureate Teacher Preparation (Teacher) Teach for America Educator Preparation (Teacher) M.Ed. Accelerated School Leadership (Principal) M.Ed. Urban School Leadership (Principal) Ed.D. in Educational Leadership (Superintendent) Master of Science in Counseling (School Counselor) Certification Preparation Areas All-level (EC-12th Grade) EC-6th Grade 4th-8th Grade Secondary Grades Appointment: Job role Meeting Dates: Monthly Simmons Educator Preparation Programs Advisory Council Charge: Discusses the design, delivery, evaluation, and major policy decisions of the teacher, administrator, and school counselor preparation programs at Southern Methodist University. In accordance with TAC 228.20, the Council plays an integral role in the accreditation and review process of the Simmons School and its educator certification programs. Members: TEA Program Directors, Certification Officers, and School and Community Partners Appointment: Nomination by Simmons Educator Preparation Program Directors Simmons Governance Governance Archive Faculty Handbook Simmons Policies and Procedures Academic Affairs Committee Technology Guidelines Contact Simmons Contact Us 214-768-7587 sehd@smu.edu Visit Us Annette Caldwell Simmons Hall Southern Methodist University 3101 University Boulevard Dallas, Texas 75205 Connect with Us Contact Us Maps and Directions Legal Disclosures © Southern Methodist University, PO Box 750100, Dallas, TX 75275 facebook twitter