Skip to content Clemson University Clemson University Search Menu Close Sorry, your browser does not support inline SVG. Sorry, your browser does not support inline SVG. Apply Giving News Resources for Students Faculty & Staff Parents Alumni Clemson University Academics Forward Arrow Back Arrow Back Academics Home Employment Opportunities Apply for Admission Colleges College of Agriculture, Forestry and Life Sciences College of Architecture, Arts and Humanities College of Behavioral, Social and Health Sciences Wilbur O. and Ann Powers College of Business College of Education College of Engineering, Computing and Applied Sciences College of Science Graduate School Academic Resources Academic Calendar Registrar Division of Undergraduate Studies Center for Career and Professional Development Academic Success Center GRAD 360° Libraries Outside the Classroom PEER/WISE Call Me MISTER® Creative Inquiry and Undergraduate Research Cooperative Education University Professional Internship and Co-op Program (UPIC) Study Abroad Admissions Forward Arrow Back Arrow Back Admissions Home Schedule a Tour Apply for Admission Applying to Clemson First-Year Undergraduate Transfer Undergraduate International Undergraduate Graduate Students Academic Opportunities Majors Graduate Programs Online Graduate Programs Scholar Programs Paths to Graduate School Honors College Experiential Learning Financial Aid Tuition and Fee Calculator Undergraduate Financial Aid Graduate Fellowships and Awards Residency Requirements Campus Life Forward Arrow Back Arrow Back Campus Life Home Club Sports Brooks Center for the Performing Arts Join Your Clemson Family Finding Your Community Living-Learning Communities Student Veterans Multicultural Programs FIRST Army ROTC Air Force ROTC Services On Campus Housing & Dining Campus Recreation Parking and Transportation Student Health Services TigerOne Card Services Clemson Athletics Get Involved Clubs and Organizations Fraternity and Sorority Life Orientation Ambassadors Tiger Media Graduate Student Government Undergraduate Student Government Research Forward Arrow Back Arrow Back Research Home Clemson University Research Foundation (CURF) Division of Research Research Opportunities Student Research at Clemson Creative Inquiry Research Facilities Postdoctoral Affairs Serving South Carolina Through Research School of Health Research Public Service and Agriculture Clemson Experimental Forest Clemson Extension Clemson Research and Education Centers Public Service and Agriculture Research Farm Services Innovation and Economic Development Corporate Partnerships and Strategic Initiatives Clemson University International Center for Automotive Research (CU-ICAR) Clemson University Restoration Institute (CURI) Clemson University Biomedical Engineering Innovation Campus (CUBEInC) Center for Human Genetics Innovation Campus and Technology Park About Clemson Forward Arrow Back Arrow Back About Clemson Home Clemson News Clemson Athletics For Tigers Applying to Clemson Working at Clemson Traditions Military Heritage Things To Do in Clemson Visit Clemson Campus Resources Employment Opportunities Home and Garden Information Center Brand Guidelines CCIT Academic Calendar Training ClemsonForward Campus Leadership Board of Trustees President Academic Affairs and Provost Inclusion and Equity Student Affairs Faculty Senate Staff Senate Search Resources for Current Students Parents Faculty & Staff Alumni Admissions Undergraduate Admissions Forward Arrow Undergraduate Admissions Cost and Aid Admissions Statistics Virtual Engagement Opportunities Contact Undergraduate Admissions Back Arrow Back Graduate School Admissions Visit Forward Arrow Visit Choose Your Tour Visitor Parking and Accommodations Things To Do in Clemson Back Arrow Back Applying to Clemson Forward Arrow Applying to Clemson First-Year Application Process Transfer Application Process International Application Process Counselor Information Veterans Back Arrow Back Apply Giving News Sikes Hall Icon Main Menu Forward Arrow Icon Back Arrow Icon Back Clemson University Academics Academics Home Employment Opportunities Apply for Admission Colleges College of Agriculture, Forestry and Life Sciences College of Architecture, Arts and Humanities College of Behavioral, Social and Health Sciences Wilbur O. and Ann Powers College of Business College of Education College of Engineering, Computing and Applied Sciences College of Science Graduate School Academic Resources Academic Calendar Registrar Division of Undergraduate Studies Center for Career and Professional Development Academic Success Center GRAD 360° Libraries Outside the Classroom PEER/WISE Call Me MISTER® Creative Inquiry and Undergraduate Research Cooperative Education University Professional Internship and Co-op Program (UPIC) Study Abroad Admissions Admissions Home Schedule a Tour Apply for Admission Applying to Clemson First-Year Undergraduate Transfer Undergraduate International Undergraduate Graduate Students Academic Opportunities Majors Graduate Programs Online Graduate Programs Scholar Programs Paths to Graduate School Honors College Experiential Learning Financial Aid Tuition and Fee Calculator Undergraduate Financial Aid Graduate Fellowships and Awards Residency Requirements Campus Life Campus Life Home Club Sports Brooks Center for the Performing Arts Join Your Clemson Family Finding Your Community Living-Learning Communities Student Veterans Multicultural Programs FIRST Army ROTC Air Force ROTC Services On Campus Housing & Dining Campus Recreation Parking and Transportation Student Health Services TigerOne Card Services Clemson Athletics Get Involved Clubs and Organizations Fraternity and Sorority Life Orientation Ambassadors Tiger Media Graduate Student Government Undergraduate Student Government Research Research Home Clemson University Research Foundation (CURF) Division of Research Research Opportunities Student Research at Clemson Creative Inquiry Research Facilities Postdoctoral Affairs Serving South Carolina Through Research School of Health Research Public Service and Agriculture Clemson Experimental Forest Clemson Extension Clemson Research and Education Centers Public Service and Agriculture Research Farm Services Innovation and Economic Development Corporate Partnerships and Strategic Initiatives Clemson University International Center for Automotive Research (CU-ICAR) Clemson University Restoration Institute (CURI) Clemson University Biomedical Engineering Innovation Campus (CUBEInC) Center for Human Genetics Innovation Campus and Technology Park About Clemson About Clemson Home Clemson News Clemson Athletics For Tigers Applying to Clemson Working at Clemson Traditions Military Heritage Things To Do in Clemson Visit Clemson Campus Resources Employment Opportunities Home and Garden Information Center Brand Guidelines CCIT Academic Calendar Training ClemsonForward Campus Leadership Board of Trustees President Academic Affairs and Provost Inclusion and Equity Student Affairs Faculty Senate Staff Senate Search close Admissions Undergraduate Admissions show submenu for Undergraduate Admissions Cost and Aid Admissions Statistics Virtual Engagement Opportunities Contact Undergraduate Admissions Graduate School Admissions Visit show submenu for Visit Choose Your Tour Visitor Parking and Accommodations Things To Do in Clemson Applying to Clemson show submenu for Applying to Clemson First-Year Application Process Transfer Application Process International Application Process Counselor Information Veterans Clemson Home Admissions Current: Visit Visit Clemson University Clemson University is located in Upstate South Carolina. Main campus encompasses 1,400 acres of forest, lake and farmland in the foothills of the Blue Ridge Mountains. Play Video intro-arrow Experience Campus At Clemson, we know how valuable the campus tour experience is to the college search process. We are excited to offer limited capacity in-person visit opportunities. Clemson University continues to be under a modified operation plan in response to COVID-19. Visitors to campus must adhere to all guidelines during their time in the community. We are also excited to continue offering a variety of virtual engagement opportunities that we hope will give you the information you need as you continue your college search. We encourage you to watch our virtual tour video to see our beautiful campus, and join us for a virtual visit led by current Clemson student tour guides to learn more about life as a Clemson Tiger. Register for a Visit Explore Virtual Engagement Opportunities TRAVELING TO CLEMSON The nearest airports to Clemson can be found in Greenville, Atlanta and Charlotte. Clemson is a one-hour drive from Greenville and a two-and-a-half hour drive from Atlanta and Charlotte. Parking Information Things To Do in Clemson Shaoni Dasgupta’s Visit to Clemson “ “My very first visit at Clemson, I had the opportunity to speak to some professors and got the feel that they really, genuinely care about their students. Everyone at Clemson truly wants you to succeed and are willing to go the extra mile to help you — that’s not something you can find at every school.” Shaoni Dasgupta Biological Sciences ’21 Tour Guide Spotlight “ “On my tour, one of the guides started talking about Joe Sherman’s quote ‘There’s something in these hills.' And that’s when it started to click for me. That’s when I realized there was something special right here.” Catherine Chapman Psychology ’21 Meet the Tour Guides Contact the Visitors Center Visitors Center staff are happy to answer any questions related to tours, visitor parking and accommodations. The Visitors Center can be contacted by phone at 864-656-4789 or by email at visit@admission.clemson.edu. Video Transcript 0:00-0:03 A white Tiger Paw is in sharp focus with an aerial view of Clemson’s reflection pond and Cooper Library behind. The Tiger Paw expands and disappears, then the aerial view of campus comes into focus. The aerial view moves toward Cooper Library. 0:03-0:04 Silver letters spelling “Robert M. Cooper Library” are affixed to the windowed front of the building. 0:05-0:07 Inside the library, groups of students sit at long tables and in nooks with couches, working on their laptops as the sun illuminates the study space through a wall of windows. 0:07-0:10 Looking out at campus from the top of Cooper Library, you can see many students walking across Library Bridge in front of the reflection pond quickly, as if in a time lapse. This bridge becomes crowded throughout the day as students walk between academic buildings for class. 0:11-0:15 From above, new residence and dining halls in west campus are shown. Bright yellow umbrellas denote outdoor eating areas, and small groups of students walk along a sidewalk between Fresh Food Company and Holmes Hall. 0:14-0:16 Inside a cozy dorm room, one female student studies at her desk while her roommate works on her laptop while sitting on her bed. The room features two beds, two desks with chairs, a window and a mini refrigerator with microwave on top. This is a customary first-year student dorm room, and they’ve decorated with a rug, matching bedding and large gold monograms on the walls. 0:14-0:19 Inside Fresh Food Company, Clemson’s newest dining hall, students sit at long high tables, eating and talking. 0:20-0:22 A male tour guide wearing an orange polo stands on a bench outside Watt Innovation Center and speaks to his tour group. 0:23-0:25 A diverse group of four students sit together on a curved bench in Watt Innovation Center, collaborating on a project as sunlight streams in the wall of windows behind them. 0:26-0:28 A female student wearing an orange face mask and black gloves uses a 3D printer to create an orange product. 0:29-0:31 An aerial view rises over tall magnolia trees to show the student-only fitness center, dining hall and retail space in Douthit Hills and four of the new Douthit Hills residence hall buildings standing tall on a grassy plain in northeast campus. 0:32-0:34 Three members of Clemson’s Latino fraternity Lambda Theta Phi sit together in Starbucks, talking and wearing jackets with their organization’s Greek letters. 0:35-0:28 In east campus, Clemson’s LEED-certified Life Sciences Building stands in the sunshine, providing top-tier laboratories and harnessing solar power for sustainable energy inside. 0:38-0:40 A Black female student wearing gloves inspects a small test tube with her professor in a lab with computers and technical equipment lining shelves on the wall to her right. 0:41-0:43 A male student wearing a lab coat and gloves focuses intently as he measures liquid from a syringe into a beaker. A variety of medical devices line shelves behind him and on the table where he works. 0:44-0:46 From above, six brick residence halls in the Greek quad are seen at sunrise. The aerial shot moves forward, revealing more residential buildings: Johnstone, Holmes, McCabe, McAlister, Cribbs and Deschamps halls. In the distance the Blue Ridge Mountains peek over the tops of large green trees on campus. 0:47-0:48 Three male and one female Clemson student walk a shaded path outside Fike Recreation Center with blooming crepe myrtles in the background. 0:49-0:50 Silver letters affixed to the brick in front of the exercise facility spell “Fike Recreation Center.” This is the view students have as they walk up the steps into the fitness center. 0:51-0:53 A male student smiles while climbing the rock wall in Fike Recreation Center. 0:54-0:56 An aerial view shows the clock tower of Tillman Hall, large green trees, the green expanse of Bowman Field and downtown Clemson in the distance. 0:57-1:00 Four students pass a frisbee in the sunshine on Bowman Field. 1:01-1:02 An aerial view shows Clemson’s quaint downtown sitting just across the street from campus. 1:03-1:04 A mural on the side of a brick building downtown says “Greetings from CLEMSON.” Scenes from campus fill the bold letters that spell out CLEMSON in front of a blue mountain range that fades into an orange sunset. 1:05-1:07 The mural view fades as a white Tiger Paw comes into focus in the center of the screen. The video concludes. × Clemson University Facebook Instagram Twitter Linkedin Youtube Tiktok Policy/Terms of Use Web Accessibility Ethics/Safety Hotline Privacy Policy Copyright © 2022 Clemson University • Clemson, South Carolina 29634 Clemson University Facebook Instagram Twitter Linkedin Youtube Tiktok Resources A-Z Index Campus Map CU Safety Directory Webcams Apply to Clemson