Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Apply Visit Give Students Employers Alumni Search BC.edu Links Menu Main Nav Back Back Close About Overview Dean's Message Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Commitment to Inclusion Facts & Figures History & Mission Contact Video Archive Events Related Links Why BC Law Boston University Resources Maps & Directions ABA Standard 509 Disclosures Admission Overview Why BC Law? Visit JD Program Tuition & Financial Aid Visiting Students FAQ Admitted Students Virtual Experiences LLM Program Welcome Message LLM Admission FAQ Related Links Tuition & Aid Housing Transfer Students Visiting Students FAQ Admitted Students Contact Admissions Academics & Faculty Overview Fusion Search Curriculum Experiential Learning Clinics Externships Advocacy Programs Legal Services LAB Skills-Based Courses Innocence Program Law Reviews Boston College Law Review About Submissions E. Supp. Submissions Contact Us Archive E.Supp. Online UCC Reporter-Digest Library Law in a Global Context Faculty Directory Filippa Anzalone Paulo Barrozo Sharon Beckman Mary Sarah Bilder Robert Bloom E. Joan Blum Cheryl Bratt Mark Brodin Michael Cassidy Mary Ann Chirba Jenna Cobb Jeffrey Cohen Daniel Coquillette Claire Donohue Daniel Farbman Scott FitzGibbon Frank Garcia Kent Greenfield Hiba Hafiz Dean Hashimoto Frank Herrmann, SJ Ingrid Michelsen Hillinger Mary Holper Renee Jones Gregory Kalscheur Daniel Kanstroom Cathleen Kaveny Elisabeth Keller Steven Koh Thomas Kohler Joseph Liu Daniel Lyons Ray Madoff Patricia McCoy Judith McMorrow Alan Minuskin Shu-Yi Oei David Olson Reena Parikh Vlad Perju Zygmunt Plater Brian Quinn James Repetti Diane Ring Evangeline Sarda Natalya Shnitser Mark Spiegel Sandy Tarrant Paul Tremblay Maureen Van Neste Ryan Williams David Wirth Alfred Chueh-Chin Yen Katharine Young Jennifer Behr Jessica Berry Jane Biondi Rosanna Cavallaro Richard Cordray Rebecca Curtin Rashmi Dyal-Chand Hillary Farber Mark Glover Geraldine Hines Nicole Langston Jessica Mahon Scoles Jeremy McClane Nate Romano Ana Rivera Lumina Sato Melissa Scanlan Linda Simard Hernandez Stroud Jane Swift Hugh Ault Charles Baron Arthur Berney George D. Brown John Flackett Jane Kent Gionfriddo Ruth-Arlene Howe Sanford Katz Cynthia Lichtenstein Sharon O'Connor James Rogers Francine Sherman William Bagley Thomas Barnico Melissa Bartholomew Stacey Best Kate Billman-Golemme Jay Blitzman Sayoko Blodgett-Ford S. James Boumil III Christopher Brown Amy Bruce Andrew Buttaro Kathy Byrne Joseph a Capraro Jr Thomas Carey Gerry Caron Eugenia Carris Philip Catanzano Sherry Xin Chen Paul Chernoff Jennifer Connor Daniel Crane John Cratsley Michael Crowley Glenn Cunha Stephen Curran Rosemary Daly Joseph Darby Karen Dexter Harlan Doliner James Dowden Dennis Duffy Tyson Ence Jordan Engelhart Michael Fatale Paul Faxon Jeffry Fowley Elizabeth Frumkin Lawrence Gennari Lourdes GermáN Edward Ginsburg Patricia Gould Andrew Grainger Ericka Gray Stuart Hamilton John Hanify Hillary Hoffman Nancy Kaufman Hon. HéLèNe Kazanjian Robert J. Keach Gregory Keating David Koha Joseph LaPlante Peter Lefkowitz Andrew Lelling Howard Levine Karen Lischinsky Jeffrey Locke Jane Lovins Crystal Lyons Erin Macgowan Helen MacLeod Jamy Madeja Thomas Maffei Michael Mahoney Bethany Mandell Ross Martin David Mason Christine McEvoy Elisabeth Medvedow Theodore Merritt Mithra Merryman Elizabeth Miller M. Patrick Moore John Moskal Joseph Mueller Christopher Muse Eric Neyman Alice Noble Philip O'Neill Jr. Sarah Petty Ameek Ponda Kelli Powell Kevin Powers Jeffrey Pyle Joel Reck Sue Reid Allan Ryan Leslie Shaff Stephen Shay Greg Sheehan Neil Sherring Yuanyuan Shen Hon. Leo Sorokin Andrea Bopp Stark Kerriann Stout Wanling Su James Sweeney Irit Tamir Kari Tannenbaum Arabela Thomas Mari Tomunen Robert Ullmann Daniela Urosa Claire Valentin Anjali Vats Amanda Ward Dan Weinger Scott Weisman Brandon White Frank White Charlotte Whitmore Geoffrey Why Paul Wilson Suzanne Wiseman Sarah Worley Sarah Carlow Lauren Rossman Academic Calendar Related Links Choosing Your Path Faculty Colloquia Continuing Education Centers & Initiatives Overview Center for Experiential Learning Clough Center LEAPS Human Rights Legal History Roundtable Philanthropy Forum Promoting Meaningful Reform Centennial Leadership Conference on Non-Profit Tax Reform Philanthropy Boot Camp for Journalists The Rise of Donor Advised Funds: Should Congress Respond? Giving in Time Faculty Colloquia Tax Policy Collaborative Regulation & Markets Workshop Program on Innovation & Entrepreneurship Rappaport Center Careers Overview Employment Statistics Private Sector Public Sector Clerkships Career Planning Alumni Related Links Faculty Diversity & Inclusion Boston Contact Career Services Student Life Overview Boston Housing Student Orgs Social Media / Blog University Resources Related Links Financial Aid Facts & Figures Admitted Students Current Students FAQ Related Links Student Organizations LLM Program Visiting Scholars BC Global Engagement Close Directory A to Z Listing Search BC Law Search BC.edu Find pages or people Search Close Close Apply Visit Give bc.edu Students Employers Alumni BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close Home Academics & Faculty Law in a Global Context Law in a Global Context Overview Curriculum The accelerating globalization of law and legal practice places important new demands on legal education. At BC Law, we understand that globalization magnifies the scope and complexity of law and legal practice. Our Global Law Program trains students for the needs of today, while giving them skills and perspectives that anticipate the needs of tomorrow. BC Law offers a comprehensive program in international and comparative law delivered by a world-class faculty. The program is holistic, yet flexible. Students may design an intensive program which can include courses and clinical programs, law review opportunities, moot court experiences, exchange and joint degree programs, and summer employment. Our educational objective for JD students in international exchanges is exposure to foreign legal systems, appreciation for transnational and international legal frameworks, and comparative perspective on law. JD students additionally gain intercultural competence and practical knowledge of how international legal systems function. Academic Resources Courses and clinical programs Law review opportunities Moot court experiences Exchange and joint degree programs Related Links Student Organizations LLM Program Visiting Scholars BC Global Engagement Distance Education During the Pandemic BC Law professor Joan Blum explored distance learning in training legal personnel in the Republic of Uzbekistan in a recent videocall between Tashkent State University of Law and Boston College Law School, facilitated by Regional Dialogue as part of its State Department’s DRL funded project. Distance Learning in Uzbekistan Legal Scholars and Leaders Our faculty are active scholars of international and comparative law, and include Paulo Barrozo (international criminal law), Frank Garcia (international trade and investment law, global law, comparative law), Daniel Kanstroom (international human rights), Vlad Perju (comparative constitutional law and EU law), Diane Ring (international taxation), David Wirth (public international law and international environmental law), Katie Young (economic, social and cultural rights) and Thomas Kohler (labor and employment law). Other faculty members regularly incorporate international perspectives into their teaching and research. Search International Law Clinical, Exchange and Joint Degree Programs SIP Dublin/International Immigration Clinic Partner Universities Sorbonne JD/LLM Program Bucerius JD/LLM Program SIP Dublin/International In our international Semester-in-Practice externship program, students are placed in Dublin in private businesses, law firms, and public organizations and participate in a weekly seminar. The program also offers externships throughout Europe, where students use videoconferencing to participate in the seminar. More on SIP Immigration Clinic This clinic allows second- and third-year law students to immerse themselves in real-world immigration legal work on behalf of indigent asylum seekers, immigrants, and certain non-citizens detained by the INS. International clients include individuals from Central America, Southeast Asia, and Africa. First-year law students may spend spring break volunteering with front-line immigrant legal service organizations such as the Haitian Catholic Center Legal Project, the Lutheran Ministries, the Catholic Legal Immigration Network, and the Florida Immigrant Advocacy Center. Students, supervised by BC Law School faculty members, advise and counsel clients and conduct legal and factual research for public interest attorneys. More on the Immigration Clinic Partner Universities Print Open All Close All Bucerius Law School Program (Hamburg, Germany) Bucerius Law School, the first private law school in Germany, offers a program in International and Comparative Business Law during the fall semester. The program is taught in English to a group of 90 students from all over the world. In addition, students whose knowledge of German is sufficient may take courses in the school's regular curriculum. A preliminary course list can be found on Bucerius' course list document. You may download an information sheet on the program below. You may also download a PDF of the Bucerius academic calendar. Boston College Law School students apply through nomination from the BC Office of International Programs, as described by Bucerius here. Contact Sabrina Henning, Programs Coordinator directly with any questions you have at sabrina.henning@law-school.de. BC Law also offers a joint JD/LLM program with Bucerius (see below). Bucerius Exchange Program Bucerius Program Info Sheet Pontificia Universidad Javeriana Pontificia Universidad Javeriana was founded in 1623 and is one of the most prestigious universities in Colombia, and the oldest Jesuit University in the Americas. The language of instruction is Spanish. The University contains a diversity of law courses available to students. Further information is included in this fact sheet and information relating to living expenses is available here. Pontificia Universidad Javeriana Javeriana Program Info Sheet Javeriana Program Cost Trinity College School of Law Trinity College School of Law. Trinity is Ireland’s oldest and most internationally renowned law school, established in 1740. Trinity also offers a broad range of law courses, from its advanced graduate offerings across law subjects in the international, EU and Irish law spheres. More information on the course modules can be found on Trinity's LLM website, from which BC students can take courses. You can also find more information about the program on the Trinity Fact Sheet. Trinity College LLM Program Trinity Fact Sheet Renmin University Law School Renmin University Law School was the first law school founded after the formation of the People’s Republic of China. BC Law students are nominated through the BC Law International Programs Office. Students are able to take graduate level courses in either the English language program on Chinese Law or, if the student is fluent in Mandarin, in the regular graduate-level law courses taught in Chinese. You can find further information about Renmin University's law program here and course offerings here, with on-campus housing options available here. Renmin Law School Site Sorbonne JD/LLM Program The Sorbonne JD/LLM Program offers law students in-depth acquaintance with the intricacies of French and European Law and a new perspective on current global legal issues while learning in the best of the French academic tradition and Civil Law methodological techniques. There is an externship opportunity during the spring term, which places students in French law firms, businesses and nonprofits and gives them an immersive real-world experience in the practice of foreign law. The Program, taught in French, is a collaborative effort with the Sorbonne Law School of the Université Paris 1 Panthéon Sorbonne, one of the oldest and most prestigious universities in the world. Only a handful of U.S. schools have a joint degree program with the Sorbonne, putting participating students into a select group of global practitioners. Upon completion of all requirements at the end of their third year, Boston College J.D. students who enroll in the Sorbonne Program will receive both the Boston College Law J.D. degree and the Paris I LL.M. Students may register for an additional year in Paris and join the Master I and or in some cases the Master II degrees in Law. The program is open to Boston College law students who are fluent in French (spoken and written) and who have completed four semesters in residence at Boston College Law School. In addition, students must complete all Boston College Law School graduation requirements by the end of their second year of J.D. studies. Sorbonne Law School Site Sorbonne Program Documents LLM Overview Brochure LLM in Business Law Info Sheet Bucerius JD/LLM Program The JD/LLM degree with Bucerius Law School, the first private law school in Germany and ranked as the best in the country, is a joint program in law and business. Students who successfully complete the program will earn a JD from BC Law and an LLM master’s degree in law from Bucerius. The Bucerius degree combines English-language course work in both law and business with an integrated internship at a top business or business law placement in Germany. Students enter the Bucerius LLM program after successful graduation from BC Law. The program offers both a tuition discount and expedited review of applications from specially selected BC Law graduates. The Bucerius program is open to applications from both BC students in the final semester of their third year and recent BC Law graduates. Applicants to the LLM program compete for BC-Bucerius Scholarships, offering significantly discounted tuition at Bucerius. BC applicants are also able to apply for a living expenses grant and several outside funding sources. Bucerius offers students several housing options, from dorms to private homes and a Law School villa. Students are also free to rent apartments in Hamburg. EU regulations require the student have one year’s work experience, which can be prior to or contemporaneous with their JD. Successful applicants must meet Bucerius matriculation requirements. For more information, contact Kent Greenfield. Law & Justice in the Americas Program Description Projects Fellows Working Papers Faculty Director The Law and Justice in the Americas program brings faculty and students together to pursue law reform and justice projects. Representative projects have included assisting developing country governments in preparing for WTO negotiations; developing recommendations for area NGOs pursuing reforms to human rights law; and providing support for developing countries’ commercial law modernization efforts. In addition to their social impact, these projects offer excellent learning opportunities for students. The partnerships that form between students, faculty, international organizations and people in need are an important way of integrating the study and practice of justice in international law, and the Law School’s mission to train future lawyers for service and effective representation in a global environment. Events The BC Law-PUC Working Group on Trade & Investment Law Reform, a joint project of the BC Law & Justice in the Americas Program and the Pontifical University of Chile funded by a grant from the Luksic family, continued its current work on investment law reform by partnering with Columbia University's Center for Sustainable Investment to mount a public stakeholder session and closed-door working meeting with UNCITRAL delegates at their meeting in New York City April 23-26, 2019. UNCITRAL is considering addressing the role of third-party funding in investment arbitration as part of their overall arbitration rules reform project. TPF in the context of investment arbitration is exploitative, raises significant risks to the public and to the integrity of the investment law system, and has been a subject of concern for the Working Group since its October 2017 conference on investment law reform. BC Law Fellows who worked on this project included Leo Gargne LLM'18, Monica Hyun Ju Cho (JD'18) Randall Scarlett (JD '19) and Tara Santosuosso '19. Link to student working papers Professor Garcia: Third-Party Funding as Exploitation of the Investment Treaty System The Case Against Third-Party Funding in ISDS (Executive Summary) Archive Reforming International Investment Law: Opportunities, Challenges, Paradigms October 25, 2017 Keynote Address: Dr. Eric DeBrabandere, Professor of International Dispute Settlement Law, Editor-in Chief, Leiden Journal of International Law; Grotius Centre for International Legal Studies, Leiden University Law Faculty Organizers: BC Law/Pontifical University of Chile Joint Working Group on Trade & Investment Law, Professor Frank J. Garcia and Sebastian Lopez Escarcena, co-chairs Draft Principles for Investment Law Reform (PDF) Projects undertaken by faculty have included: Consultation with the Regional Negotiating Machinery, CARICOM, concerning WTO negotiations on special and differential treatment for smaller economies Consultation with area NGOs regarding habeas corpus reform in El Salvador Consultation with area NGOs regarding human rights ombudsman statute for Brazil Consultation through the International Law Institute to support USAID’s Bolivian Trade and Business Competitiveness Project Consultation with area NGOs concerning the impact of the Central American Free Trade Agreement on exports of grassroots producer cooperatives Consultation with the US Conference of Catholic Bishops on social justice aspects of hemispheric trade When program faculty undertake a project, students are invited to apply for the position of Program Fellow. Fellows work closely with faculty in a variety of capacities, assisting them in the delivery of the faculty’s project commitments. Depending upon the nature of the project, Fellows may prepare a paper under faculty supervision for publication as part of the program’s Working Paper Series. Not all projects lend themselves to development of a working paper, but where possible, such papers offer Fellows the particular satisfaction of contributing to the literature on a subject of interest to the legal and policy communities. For more information, please contact Professor Frank Garcia. Project Examples Leo Gargne: Third-Party Funding in Investment Arbitration and the ICCA/Queen Mary Report Alex Galliani: Investment Law at the Crossroads: Reform and Opportunities Monica Cho: Third-Party Funding and UNCITRAL Arbitration Rules Reforms Soohyun Jun: Review of WTO Special and Differential Treatment Rules Regina Garrick: Impact of the EU Cotonou Agreement on CARICOM Mary Holper: Proposals for Habeas Corpus Reform in El Salvador Joyce Asber: Comparative Analysis of Human Rights Ombudsman Statutes Laura Paioff: Review of FTAA Proposals and the Status of Bolivian Commercial Law Orville Thomas, Jr.: Analysis of Impact of CAFTA Tariff-Rate Quota System on Producer Cooperatives Jasmin Bin-Humami: CAFTA Negotiations and U.S. Hemispheric Trade Policy Rebecca Cantu: The Rule of Law and Legal Culture in Latin America Daniel Blanchard: CAFTA and U.S. Hemispheric Trade Policy Dina Bernardelli "Modern Judicial Reform in El Salvador and Brazil" Julie Endy "Supporting Parallel Legal Systems as a Means of Improving Access to Justice in Guatemala" Daniel Garnaas-Holmes "Judicial Review: Fostering Judicial Independence and Rule of Law" Mary Holper "Habeas Reform in El Salvador" Kindra Mohr "New Standards of Justice: Uncovering Motivations for Mexico’s Recent Judicial Reforms amid a Security Crisis" Michael O'Donovan "Labor Provisions From NAFTA to CAFTA: Standards That Work, or a Work in Progress?" Andres Torres "From Inquisitorial to Accusatory: Colombia's and Guatemala's Legal Transition" “Today's clients—and not just businesses— need a lawyer who understands that they are engaged in global relationships. Family law, property, inheritance law...globalization is changing just about everything lawyers do.” Frank Garcia, Professor of Law Professor Garcia's Website Immigration Clinic An opportunity that allows students to experience real-world immigration legal work on behalf of indigent asylum seekers, immigrants, and non-citizens. Clough Center BC Law professor Vlad Perju leads this University constitutional & comparative law center. Center for Human Rights and International Justice Home to our Post-Deportation Human Rights Project, the center nurtures a new generation of scholars and practitioners in the increasingly interdisciplinary needs of human rights work. Visiting Scholars Program Program Overview Apply Expenses Each year, Boston College Law School hosts a small number of students from around the world. Visitors are generally Professors of Law, doctoral students or post-doctoral researchers in law at institutions overseas. They normally are in residence at the Law School for either a semester or academic year. Visiting scholars have access to facilities of the Law School and the rest of Boston College so that they can conduct research on an approved topic while in residence. Those appointed have full library privileges, including dedicated carrel space. They also have the privilege of attending colloquia and other scholarly presentations at the Law School, and are invited to participate in faculty social events such as the Friday lunches. Visitors may audit Law School courses on a non-credit basis with the permission of the course instructor. Visitors must be sponsored by a faculty member who is willing to act as a consultant on the scholar’s research project. It is the responsibility of a prospective scholar to contact appropriate faculty members and arrange for such sponsorship. Applying to the program To apply to the Visiting Scholars Program, applicants must complete the program’s application materials. These call for applicants to provide information about themselves and the specific research project they propose to pursue, letters of recommendation from professors and others who know their work, and (in most cases) transcripts from each university they have attended. In addition, all applicants must submit a letter from full-time member of the Boston College Law School faculty indicating his or her willingness to act as a consultant on the proposed research project. Whether or not a faculty member agrees to act as a consultant is completely within his or her discretion. In particular, some faculty members will only do so for scholars whom they know personally. English language proficiency is essential for a Visitor to insure the most beneficial and efficient use of time at Boston College Law School. Visiting Scholar candidates whose native language is not English are required to achieve a minimum score of 100 (IBT) on the TOEFL examination, taken within the past two years. Applicants should submit evidence of comparable English language proficiency. For additional information on the TOEFL examination, check their web site or contact them at TOEFL Services, Educational Testing Service, Rosedale Road, Princeton, NJ 08541, USA. Visiting Scholars Program Application TOEFL Site The costs of housing, food, health insurance, books and supplies, and personal and travel expenses for a single visitor are likely to total at least $12,000 per semester. Visitors accompanied by family members should expect to incur significantly higher expenses. Quick Links JD Program Facts & Figures Why BC Law? Diversity & Inclusion Visit Back To Top Back To Top Boston College Law School 885 Centre St., Newton Centre, MA 02459 617-552-4340 (Office of the Dean) 617-552-4351 (Admissions) 617-552-4345 (Career Services) About BC Law Admission Academics & Faculty Centers Careers Student Life Contact Consumer Information (ABA Standard 509 Disclosures) BC Forward: University updates on 2021-22 academic year apply now JD Program LLM Program Connect Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube LinkedIn Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College